Something in his throat impeded his  fierce speech. And he bent over the dog again, his rough
hands smoothing the pitifully still body with loving tenderness. Dorcas, weeping hysterically,
fell on her knees beside Chum and put her arms about the huddled shape. She seemed to be trying
to say something, her lips close to one of the furry little ears.

"No use!" broke in Ferris, his voice as grating as a file's. "He can't hear you now. No good
to tell him you hate dogs; or that you're glad you've saw the last of him. Even if he was alive,
he wouldn't understand that. He'd never been spoke to that way."

"Don't! Oh, don't!" sobbed the girl. "Oh, I'm so--"

"If you're crying for Chum," went on the grating voice, "there's no need to. He was only just
a dog. He didn't know any better but to get his life smashed out'n him, so somebody else could
go on living. All he asked was to be with me and work for me and love me. After you said he
couldn't keep on doing that, there ain't any good in your crying for him. It must be nice--if
you'll only stop crying long enough to think of it--to know he's out of your way. And I'M out
of it too!" he went on in a gust of fury. "S'pose you two just toddle on, now, and leave me
to take him home. I got the right to that, anyhow."

He stooped to pick up the dog; and he winked with much rapidity to hold back an annoying mist
which came between him and Chum. His mouth corners, too, were twitching in a way that shamed
him. He had a babyish yearning to bury his face in his dead friend's fur, and cry.

"DON'T!" Dorcas was wailing. "Oh, you can't punish me any worse than I'm--"

Her sob-broken voice scaled high and swelled out into a cry of stark astonishment. Slowly Chum
was lifting his splendid head and blinking stupidly about him!

The fender had smitten the collie just below the shoulder, in a mass of fur-armored muscles.
In falling into the wayside ditch his skull had come into sharp contact with a rock. Knocked
senseless by the concussion, he had lain as dead, for the best part of five minutes. After
which he had come slowly to his senses--bewildered, bruised and sore, but otherwise no worse
for the accident.

He came to himself to find a weeping woman clutching him stranglingly round the neck, while
she tried to kiss his dust-smeared head.

Chum did not care at all for this treatment, especially from a comparative stranger. But he
saw his adored master looking so idiotically happy--over that or something else--that the dog
forbore to protest. 

With such of the dead as have done something which survives themselves. It will be observed that
the phrase 'he wakes or sleeps' leaves the question of personal or
individual immortality quite open.

As to this point see the remarks on p. 54, &c.
1. The air of aloofness had fallen from the girl like a discarded
garment.

"Link!" she blazed. "Link Ferris! If you ever dare speak about getting rid of--of MY dog,--I'll--I'll
never speak to you again, as long as--as long as we're married!"

THE END