Behind the sepulchre the moon rose; it dropped a beam near by. There is light somewhere, it
seemed to say; and in that telegram from Above, she thought of Rome. She remembered now, in
Rome was Tiberius, and in him Revenge. She smiled at her own forgetfulness. Yes, it was there.
She would go to him, she would exact reparation; there should be another crucifixion. Pilate
should be nailed to the cross, Judas on one side, Caiaphas on the other. Only it would be at
Rome where there was no Passover to interfere with the torture they endured. Things were done
better there. Men were crucified, not with the head up, but with the feet; and so remained,
not for hours, but for days; and died, not of their wounds alone, but of hunger too.

A chariot of dream caught her, and, borne across the intervening space, she saw herself in
a palace where there were gods and monsters, columns of transparent quartz, floors of malachite,
roofs of gold. And there, on a dais, the Cæsar lay. Behind him a fan, luminous as a peacock’s
tail, oscillated to the tinkling of mysterious keys. In his crown was the lividity of uncolored
dawns, in his sceptre the dominion of the world. An ulcer devoured his face, and in his ear
a boy repeated the maxims of Elephantis. Mary threw herself at his feet, her tears fell on
them as rain on leaves. “Vengeance,” she implored; but he listened merely to the boy at his
side. “Death is your servant,” she cried. “You command, it obeys.” The ulcer oozed, the face
grew vague, he gave no answer. She stood up and menaced him. “Behind you spectres crouch; you
may not see them. I do; their name is To-morrow.” The murmurs of the boy were her sole reply.
The roof crumbled, the flooring disappeared, the emperor faded, and Mary stared into space.

The moon that had struck aslant the tomb had gone, but where its beams had fallen the message
remained. There is light somewhere, it repeated. Across the heavens a meteor shot like a bee.
In the air voices whispered confusedly. It is not in Rome, one seemed to say. It is not on
earth, another called.

Mary clutched at her beating breast. The sky now was an opening rose. What the sunset had sown
the dawn would reap. In the night that had enveloped, day raised a lattice, and through it
came a gust of higher thought. It is not in revenge, a voice whispered. It is not in regret,
another called.

“I know it,” Mary gasped. “Yes, yes, I know it now. It is in faith.”

“And in abnegation of self.”

The stone which stood before the sepulchre had rolled away. At her side the Christ stood. In
his eyes were golden parables, in his face Truth shone revealed. She stared, dumb with the
unexpected joy of belief confirmed, blinded by the sudden light, while he who had rent the
bonds of death passed on into the budding day.

When the brief procession of the night before returned to the tomb, it was empty. At the door
Mary lay, her arms outstretched and vacant.

                               FINIS MARIÆ.

                            TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

The table of contents has been added in the electronic version.

The following changes have been made to the text:

      page 36, “forget” changed to “forgot”, “Hew” changed to “Her”
      page 38, “a” added before “sword”
      page 46, period added following “roof”
      page 108, “surperber” changed to “superber”
      page 118, “is” changed to “it”