'What is going on before you,' continued Montalembert, 'is a sample of its moderation. It is
now attempting in my person to introduce into our criminal law a new délit, "communication."
Until now it was supposed that nothing was criminal until it was published. It was believed
that a man might write his opinions and his reflections, and might exchange them with his friends;
that nothing was libellous that was confidential. Now this Government holds a man responsible
for every thought that an indiscreet or an incautious friend, or a concealed enemy, or a tool
of power reveals. If it succeeds in this attempt, it will not rest satisfied with this victory
over the remnant of our freedom. It is not in the nature of things that it should. A Government
that will not tolerate censure must forbid discussion. You are now asked to put down writing.
When that has been done, conversation will be attacked. Paris will resemble Rome under the
successors of Augustus. Already this prosecution has produced a malaise which I never felt
or observed before. What will be the feelings of the nation when all that is around it is concealed,
when every avenue by which light could penetrate is stopped; when we are exposed to all the
undefined terrors and exaggerated dangers that accompany utter darkness? The misfortune of
France, a national defect which makes the happiness enjoyed by England unattainable by us,
is, that she is always oscillating between extremes; that she is constantly swinging from universal
conquest to la paix à tout prix, from the desire of nothing but glory to the desire of nothing
but wealth, from the wildest democracy to the most abject servility. Every new Government starts
with a new principle. Every Government in a few years perishes by carrying that principle to
an extreme. The First Republic was destroyed by the intemperance with which it trampled on
every sort of tradition and authority, the First Empire by its abuse of victory and war, the
Restoration by its exaggerated belief in divine right and legitimacy, the Royalty of July by
its exaggerated reliance on purchased voters and Parliamentary majorities, the Second Republic
by the conduct of its own Republicans. The danger to the Second Empire--its only internal danger,
but I fear a fatal one--is its abuse of authority. With every phase of our sixty years' long
revolution, we have a new superstition, a new culte. We are now required to become the worshippers
of authority. I lament that with the new religion we have not new priests. Our public men would
not be discredited by instantaneous apostasy from one political faith to another. I am grieved,
gentlemen, if I offend you; though many of you are older in years than I am, not one probably
is so old in public life. I may be addressing you for the last time, and I feel that my last
words ought to contain all the warnings that I think will be useful to you. This assembly will
soon end, as all its predecessors have ended. Its acts, its legislation, may perish with it,
but its reputation, its fame, for good or for evil, will survive. Within a few minutes you
will do an act by which that reputation will be seriously affected; by which it may be raised,
by which it may be deeply, perhaps irrevocably, sunk. Your vote to-night will show whether
you possess freedom, and whether you deserve it. As for myself, I care but little. A few months,
or even years, of imprisonment are among the risks which every public man who does his duty
in revolutionary times must encounter, and which the first men of the country have incurred,
soit en sortant des affaires, soit avant d'y entrer. But whatever may be the effect of your
vote on my person, whatever it may be on your reputation, I trust that it is not in your power
to inflict permanent injury on my country. Among you are some who lived through the Empire.