They both started down the stairs, his mother still talking to him; but he scarcely heard a
word she said, for his thoughts were still centered on what he had read. And now that his excitement
had abated, there seemed to be a hopeful gleam in his eyes. As soon as they entered the room,
his father noticed that his eyes were brighter, but took it as a bad sign.

All through the evening meal they had to address him several times before he would answer,
and his father's heart grew heavy as he noticed the thoughtful mood of his son.

When they had finished their meal, Walter asked to be excused, and immediately went to his room.

As soon as he was gone the pastor said, "Lillian, did you notice how Walter acted to-night?
It seemed to me that he was very much more thoughtful than usual."

"Yes," answered the mother, "he seemed confused, and his eyes were so bright, but he ate a
very hearty supper."

"I also noticed that," said the pastor, then added, "It seems there is a change, but I hardly
know whether to say the change is for better or worse. I hope it is for the best; it may be
that the medicine has just taken effect."

"God grant that this may be so," reverently said the mother. They were both silent for some
time, then the pastor said, "I never heard Walter speak as he did this noon. I wonder how he
thought of such an absurd thing, as sending me to jail because some one else stole some chickens."

"I know, James, that it does seem absurd at first thought, yet it seems to me to be just as
sensible to punish the wrong person for stealing, as it would be to punish the innocent with
sickness because some one else had sinned. I have been thinking seriously of this all the afternoon,
but have not arrived at a satisfactory conclusion," said Mrs. Williams.

The pastor slowly turned toward his wife and said, "Lillian I am astonished beyond measure
to hear this from you; it was bad enough to hear it from my own son, but to hear it from you
is worse. Don't you think that Almighty God knows what is best for us, do you dare question
anything He does? Do you think the allwise Creator would have made him sick if it were not
for the best?"

"James, do you really believe God made our boy sick?"

"It must be so," answered James, "for we read in the Bible, that God made everything that was
made."

"If this be true James, it would be a sin to give him medicine, for we would be trying to undo
the work of God."

To say the pastor was astonished would be putting it mildly. Never in his whole life had he
been so shocked as on this day, and each shock was greater than the preceding one.

He now stood perfectly still for a full minute, then said, "It seems high time that we begin
the study of the Bible in this house, for from what I have heard to-day it is very apparent
to me that my wife and son are quite ignorant of what the Bible contains." Then turning, he
strode from the room.

