"Perfectly, your honor. Here is Brace Dunlap--let him deny his share of it if he wants to take
the chance; I'll engage to make him wish he hadn't said anything...... Well, you see HE'S pretty
quiet. Such times for him are times of observation properly so called, of purer thought in which
the impulses of the painter and the poet have no share. That kind of observation is not infrequent
with him, when he is dealing with the world and with human action.

Well, sir, that fairly made them shout; and even the judge he let go and laughed. Tom he was
just feeling like a rainbow. When they was done laughing he looks up at the judge and says:

"Your honor, there's a thief in this house."

"A thief?"

"Yes, sir. And he's got them twelve-thousand-dollar di'monds on him."

By gracious, but it made a stir! Everybody went shouting:

"Which is him? which is him? p'int him out!"

And the judge says:

"Point him out, my lad. Sheriff, you will arrest him. Which one is it?"

Tom says:

"This late dead man here--Jubiter Dunlap."

Then there was another thundering let-go of astonishment and excitement; but Jubiter, which
was astonished enough before, was just fairly putrified with astonishment this time. And he
spoke up, about half crying, and says:

"Now THAT'S a lie. Your honor, it ain't fair; I'm plenty bad enough without that. I done the
other things--Brace he put me up to it, and persuaded me, and promised he'd make me rich, some
day, and I done it, and I'm sorry I done it, and I wisht I hadn't; but I hain't stole no di'monds,
and I hain't GOT no di'monds; I wisht I may never stir if it ain't so. The sheriff can search
me and see."

Tom says:

"Your honor, it wasn't right to call him a thief, and I'll let up on that a little. He did
steal the di'monds, but he didn't know it. He stole them from his brother Jake when he was
laying dead, after Jake had stole them from the other thieves; but Jubiter didn't know he was
stealing them; and he's been swelling around here with them a month; yes, sir, twelve thousand
dollars' worth of di'monds on him--all that riches, and going around here every day just like
a poor man. Yes, your honor, he's got them on him now."

The judge spoke up and says:

"Search him, sheriff."

Well, sir, the sheriff he ransacked him high and low, and everywhere: searched his hat, socks,
seams, boots, everything--and Tom he stood there quiet, laying for another of them effects
of hisn. Finally the sheriff he give it up, and everybody looked disappointed, and Jubiter says:

"There, now! what'd I tell you?"

And the judge says:

"It appears you were mistaken this time, my boy."

Then Tom took an attitude and let on to be studying with all his might, and scratching his
head. Then all of a sudden he glanced up chipper, and says:

"Oh, now I've got it! I'd forgot."

Which was a lie, and I knowed it. Then he says:

"Will somebody be good enough to lend me a little small screwdriver? There was one in your
brother's hand-bag that you smouched, Jubiter, but I reckon you didn't fetch it with you."

"No, I didn't. I didn't want it, and I give it away."

"That's because you didn't know what it was for."

Jubiter had his boots on again, by now, and when the thing Tom wanted was passed over the people's
heads till it got to him, he says to Jubiter:

"Put up your foot on this chair." And he kneeled down and begun to unscrew the heel-plate,
everybody watching; and when he got that big di'mond out of that boot-heel and held it up and
let it flash and blaze and squirt sunlight everwhichaway, it just took everybody's breath;
and Jubiter he looked so sick and sorry you never see the like of it. And when Tom held up
the other di'mond he looked sorrier than ever. Land! he was thinking how he would 'a' skipped
out and been rich and independent in a foreign land if he'd only had the luck to guess what
the screwdriver was in the carpet-bag for.

