Another version of the legend sets forth that the Biloxi believed themselves the children of
the sea, and that they worshipped the image of a lovely mermaid with wondrous music. After
the Spaniards had come among this gay and gentle people, they compelled them, by tyranny and
murder, to accept the religion of the white man, but of course it was only lip-service that
they rendered at the altar. The Biloxi were awakened one night by the sound of wings and the
rising of the river. Going forth they saw the waters of Pascagoula heaped in a quivering mound,
and bright on its moonlit crest stood a mermaid that sang to them, "Come to me, children of
the sea. Neither bell, book, nor cross shall win you from your queen." Entranced by her song
and the potency of her glances, they moved forward until they encircled the hill of waters.
Then, with hiss and roar, the river fell back to its level, submerging the whole tribe. The
music that haunts the bay, rising through the water when the moon is out, is the sound of their
revels in the caves below--dusky Tannhausers of a southern Venusberg. An old priest, who was
among them at the time of this prodigy, feared that the want of result to his teachings was
due to his not being in a perfect state of grace. On his death-bed he declared that if a priest
would row to the spot where the music sounded, at midnight on Christmas, and drop a crucifix
into the water, he would instantly be swallowed by the waves, but that every soul at the bottom
would be redeemed. The souls have never been ransomed.

THE SACRED FIRE OF NACHEZ

The Indians of the South, being in contact with the civilized races of Central America, were
among the most progressive and honorable of the red men. They were ruled by intelligence rather
than force, and something of the respect that Europeans feel for their kingly families made
them submit to woman's rule. The valley of Nacooche, Georgia, indeed, perpetuates in its name
one of these princesses of a royal house, for though she ruled a large tribe with wisdom she
was not impervious to the passions of common mortals. The "Evening Star" died by her own hand,
being disappointed in love affair. Her story is that of Juliet, and she and her lover--united
in death, as they could not be in life--are buried beneath a mound in the centre of he valley.

The Indians of that region had towns built for permanency, and possessed some knowledge of
the arts, while in religion their belief and rites were curiously like those of the Persian
fire-worshippers. It was on the site of the present city in Mississippi which bears their name
that the Natchez Indians built their Temple of the Sun. When it was finished a meteor fell
from heaven and kindled the fire on their altar, and from that hour the priests guarded he
flame continually, until one night when it was extinguished by mischance. This event was believed
to be an omen, and the people so took it to heart that when the white men came, directly after,
they had little courage to prosecute a war, and fell back before the conqueror, never to hold
their ancient home again.

PASS CHRISTIAN

