If cavalry is within charging distance of the enemy's cavalry at the end of the enemy's move,
it must do one of three things--dismount, charge, or retire. If it remains stationary and mounted
and the enemy charges, one charging sabre will kill five stationary sabres and put fifteen
others three feet to the rear.

Dismounted cavalry charged is equivalent to infantry in extended order.

If cavalry charges cavalry and the numbers are equal and the ground level, the result must
be decided by the toss of a coin; the loser losing three-quarters of his men and obliged to
retire, the winner losing one-quarter of his men.

If the numbers are unequal, the melee rules for Little Wars obtain if the ground is level.

If the ground slopes, the cavalry charging downhill will be multiplied according to the number
of contours crossed. If it is one contour, it must be multiplied by two; two contours, multiplied
by three; three contours, multiplied by four.

If cavalry retires before cavalry instead of accepting a charge, it must continue to retire
so long as it is pursued--the pursuers can only be arrested by fresh cavalry or by infantry
or artillery fire.

If driven off the field or into an unfordable river, the retreating body is destroyed.

If infantry find hostile cavalry within charging distance at the end of the enemy's move, and
this infantry retires and yet is still within charging distance, it will receive double losses
if in extended order if charged; and if in two ranks or in fours, will lose at three feet two
men for each charging sabre; at two feet, three men for each charging sabre. The cavalry in
these circumstances will lose nothing. The infantry will have to continue to retire until their
tormentors have exterminated them or been driven off by someone else.

If cavalry charges artillery and is not dealt with by other forces, one gun is captured with
a loss to the cavalry of four men per gun for a charge at three feet, three men at two feet,
and one man at one foot.

If artillery retires before cavalry when cavalry is within charging distance, it must continue
to retire so long as the cavalry pursues.

The introduction of toy railway trains, moving, let us say, eight feet per move, upon toy rails,
needs rules as to entraining and detraining and so forth, that will be quite easily worked
out upon the model of boat embarkation here given. An engine or truck within the circle of
destruction of a shell will be of course destroyed.

The toy soldiers used in this Kriegspiel should not be the large soldiers used in Little Wars.
The British manufacturers who turn out these also make a smaller, cheaper type of man--the
infantry about an inch high--which is better adapted to Kriegspiel purposes.

We hope, if these suggestions "catch on," to induce them to manufacture a type of soldier more
exactly suited to the needs of the game, including tray carriers for troops in formation and
(what is at present not attainable) dismountable cavalry that will stand.

We place this rough sketch of a Kriegspiel entirely at the disposal of any military men whose
needs and opportunities enable them to work it out and make it into an exacter and more realistic
game. In doing so, we think they will find it advisable to do their utmost to make the game
work itself, and to keep the need for umpire's decisions at a minimum. Whenever possible, death
should be by actual gun- and rifle-fire and not by computation. Things should happen, and not
be decided. We would also like to insist upon the absolute need of an official upon either
side, simply to watch and measure the moves taken, and to collect and check the amounts of
supply and ammunition given up. This is a game like real war, played against time, and played
under circumstances of considerable excitement, and it is remarkable how elastic the measurements
of quite honest and honourable men can become.

We believe that the nearer that Kriegspiel approaches to an actual small model of war, not
only in its appearance but in its emotional and intellectual tests, the better it will serve
its purpose of trial and education.