'What has Ballanche written?' I asked.

'A dozen volumes,' he answered. 'Poetry, metaphysics, on all sorts of subjects, with pages
of remarkable vigour and finesse, containing some of the best writing in the language, but
too unequal and too desultory to be worth going through.'

'How wonderfully extensive,' I said, 'is French literature! Here is a voluminous author, some
of whose writings, you say, are among the best in the French language, yet his name, at least
as an author, is scarcely known. He shines only by reflected light, and will live only because
he attached himself to a remarkable man and to a remarkable woman.'

'French literature,' said Ampère, 'is extensive, but yet inferior to yours. If I were forced
to select a single literature and to read nothing else, I would take the English. In one of
the most important departments, the only one which cannot be re-produced by translation--poetry--you
beat us hollow. We are great only in the drama, and even there you are perhaps our superiors.
We have no short poems comparable to the "Allegro" or to the "Penseroso," or to the "Country
Churchyard."'

'Tocqueville,' I said, 'told me that he did not think that he could now read Lamartine.'

'Tocqueville,' said Ampère, 'could taste, like every man of genius, the very finest poetry,
but he was not a lover of poetry. He could not read a hundred bad lines and think himself repaid
by finding mixed with them ten good ones.'

'Ingres,' said Beaumont, 'perhaps our greatest living painter, is one of the clever cultivated
men who do not read. Somebody put the "Misanthrope" into his hands, "It is wonderfully clever,"
he said, when he returned it; "how odd it is that it should be so totally unknown."'

'Let us read it to-night,' I said.

'By all means,' said Madame de Tocqueville; 'though we know it by heart it will be new when
read by M. Ampère.' Accordingly Ampère read it to us after dinner.

'The tradition of the stage,' he said, 'is that Célimène was Molière's wife.'

'She is made too young,' said Minnie. 'A girl of twenty has not her wit, or her knowledge of
the world.'

'The change of a word,' said Ampère, 'in two or three places would alter that. The feeblest
characters are as usual the good ones. Philinte and Eliante. 

In some places they ransomed or exchanged prisoners. In others they made them lame of a leg
in order to retain them in their service, more from pride and vain glory than for any substantial
use or benefit [184].

[Footnote 184: It is perhaps singular that no mention is made of the
cruel manner in which the North American Indians were in use to put
their prisoners to death.

Probably that practice was then confined to the tribes farther to
the north and west.-- E.] Three days after the arrival of the Spaniards
at Guachacoya, the cacique became acquainted with the unfriendly reception
they had received at Anilco.

Though a barbarian, he could perceive the advantage which might be derived from that circumstance
to obtain revenge upon his enemies, by an alliance with the warlike
strangers.

He sent therefore four of his inferior chiefs to wait upon the Spanish
general attended by a considerable number of Indians loaded with fish
and fruit, and desiring permission to wait upon him at the end of
four days.

Soto accordingly received the messengers with great courtesy, and sent back a friendly answer;
yet the wary cacique sent fresh messengers every day to see in what disposition
the Spanish general was.

At length, being satisfied that Soto was disposed to receive him well, he made his appearance attended
by ten chiefs splendidly dressed after their manner, in fine plumes of feathers, and rich furs, but
all armed. Soto received them in a friendly manner, and had a long discourse, with the cacique
in one of the spacious rooms belonging to his residence, by the intervention of interpreters.
At one time the cacique happened to sneeze, on which all the Indians
who were present bowed their heads and extended their arms, in token
of salute; some saying, the sun preserve you, others the sun be with
you, and others may the sun make you great, with other complimentary
expressions of similar import.

Among other discourse at this interview, the cacique proposed to Soto to return into the province of Anilco
to take revenge on the cacique for his enmity, and offered to supply
80 canoes to carry the Spaniards down the great river and up that
of Anilco, the distance being only twenty leagues, when the rest of
the army marching by land might form a junction in the centre of the
enemies country.

As Soto was inclined to take a full view of the country, meaning to form a settlement between these
two provinces, where he might build his brigantines, he agreed to this
proposal, and accordingly orders were given out to prepare for the march.
Juan de Guzman was ordered to embark with his company on board the
canoes, which were likewise to carry 4000 Indians, and who were expected
to join the forces which marched by land at the end of three days.

Soto and the rest of the Spanish forces marched by land, being accompanied by Guachacoya with 2000
warriors, besides a large number carrying the provisions. They all met
at the time appointed, and as the Anilcans were unable to oppose the
groat force which came against them, the Guachacoyans entered the town
killing all they met, without regard to age or sex; committed all imaginable
barbarities, broke open the sepulchres scattering and trampling on
the bones, and took away the scalps of their countrymen and other
trophies which the Anilcans had hung up in commemoration of their
victories.

On seeing the barbarity of his allies, Soto sounded a retreat and
ordered the Spaniards to turn the Indians out of the town, wishing anxiously
to put a stop to any farther mischief, and to prevent it from being
set on fire.

But all his efforts were ineffectual, as the Guachacoyans thrust burning
brands into the thatch of the houses, which soon took fire, and the town
was utterly destroyed.

The Spaniards and their allies now returned to Guachacoya, where Soto gave
orders for cutting down and hewing timber with which to build the
brigantines, and to prepare iron work for their construction; designing
when the vessels were finished to cross the river into a province
named Quiqualtangui, which was very fertile and populous, the cacique
of which had a town of five hundred houses, but who could never be
induced to listen to proposals of peace from the Spaniards: On the
contrary, he had sworn by the sun and moon, that he would give battle
to these vagabond robbers, and would hang up their quarters on trees.

The general endeavoured to appease him with presents and fair words, being always generous towards
the leaders of the barbarians, endeavouring to bear with and soften their savage manners, and to
conciliate their friendship. By this wise conduct he had hitherto been able to subsist his troops
for so long a time among so many fierce and savage nations. While engaged
in these things, Soto was seized with a violent fever, which increased
upon him so that he soon perceived it would prove mortal.

He made therefore his will, and endeavoured to prepare for death like a good Christian. That nothing
might be left unprovided for, he appointed in presence of all his officers and principal followers
Luis Moscoso de Alvarado to succeed him in the command till the king might order otherwise;
and after commending the virtue and bravery of Alvarado, he entreated
and commanded all to yield him implicit obedience, even taking their
oaths to that purpose, and represented to them how necessary it was
for them all to be united and obedient, for their own preservation
among these barbarous nations.

He then took an affectionate leave of all his officers and soldiers,
and departed this life on the seventh day of his illness, after performing
all the duties of a zealous Christian. Ferdinand de Soto was of a comely
appearance and pleasant countenance, and of affable and generous dispositions.
He was an excellent soldier, and managed his weapons with much dexterity
both on foot and on horseback; skilful and experienced in all military
affairs; always brave and cool in action, and the foremost in every
enterprise of danger: severe in punishing when necessary, yet easy to
forgive, and always inclined to please his soldiers when that might
be done without lessening his authority.

At his death he was only forty-two years of age, and had expended his whole fortune, exceeding 100,000
ducats on this romantic and fruitless expedition. His death was universally lamented among his
followers, as he had acquired their universal love and esteem by his excellent qualities and
conduct.

It was thought necessary to bury him under night, that his death might not be known to the Indians,
nor the place of his interment, lest they should insult his remains;
but in spite of all their precautions the secret was revealed; for
which reason they hollowed out a log of oak into which they put his
body, and sunk it in the middle of the great river, at a place where
it was a quarter of a league across and nineteen feet deep.

When the funeral of the general was over, Luis de Alvarado assembled his officers to hold a council
upon the present state of their affairs. After thanking them for
admitting him as their commander, and making a statement of their numbers,
arms, and ammunition, he desired they would determine upon what was
best to be done, considering the fierceness and inveterate enmity of the
barbarous nations by whom they were surrounded: Whether to prosecute
what had been previously resolved upon by their late lamented general,
or to devise some other measure for extricating themselves from the
country, declaring that he was ready to proceed according to their
opinion and advice.

In their answer, the officers thanked him for the compliment he paid them, but referred the determination
respecting their future proceedings to himself, and again submitted to obey him as their commander.
The death of Soto had made a great change in the minds of the Spanish forces, who now determined to abandon
the country they had taken so much pains to discover. Accordingly, they set out on the 5th
of July 1542, and marched above 100 leagues to the westwards, through
a barren and desert country [185]. On leaving Guachacoya they were
joined by an Indian youth of about sixteen years of age, whom they did
not observe till the fourth day of their march. Suspecting him of being
a spy, Alvarado asked him who he was and what was his object in following
them.

He said that he had fled from Guachacoya, because the chief whom he served was at the point of
death, and he had been appointed to be buried alive along with his master, as it was the custom of
the country to inter women and servants along with great personages, to minister to them in the next world.
[Footnote 185: Though not directly so expressed in the text; it
may be inferred from circumstances in the after part of the narratives
that the present object of Alvarado and the Spaniards, was to endeavour to
find their way by land to the northern part of New Spain.-- E.] At
the end of the 100 leagues of wilderness, the Spaniards came to a
province called Auche, where they were well received, and where they
rested for two days.

Still determined upon proceeding to the westwards, they were informed that they had a desert
wilderness of four days journey to cross, and received a supply of provisions sufficient for the
journey, with a guide to conduct them through the wilderness. But after having
marched for eight days in that direction, still in the unhospitable and unpeopled
wilds, and having been three days without Indian corn, they discovered
that they had been imposed upon and were likely to perish of famine.
Alvarado now ordered a dog to be let loose upon the faithless guide;
who acknowledged that he had received orders from the cacique of Auche
to lead them into the heart of the desert that they might there perish,
because he did not think himself able to contend with them in arms.

He craved pardon therefore of the general for having obeyed the orders of his chief, and engaged
to lead the army in three days more, still proceeding to the westwards,
to an inhabited country where they would find provisions.

But the Spaniards were so incensed against him for leading them into the present alarming situation,
that they would not listen to his apology or promises, and permitted the dogs to devour him. Thus
left in the utmost want of provisions, and utterly ignorant of the country, the Spaniards held on their way
towards the west for other three days, during which they had to subsist upon any wild plants
they could find; and at length came to an inhabited though barren country. They here procured the
means of subsistence, particularly beef, and saw many fresh cows
hides, though the Indians never shewed them any cows [186].

While the Spaniards were proceeding on their march through this province, which they denominated
De los Vaqueros [187], or the tribe of cow-herds, they observed an Indian approach from the
skirts of a wood, and believing he might have brought some message from the cacique, they permitted
him to draw near.

But as soon as he was within reach, he levelled an arrow at five or six soldiers who stood together,
who fortunately escaped the danger by stepping to a side; but the arrow flew among some Indian
women who were dressing provisions for their masters, pierced one
of them quite through, and wounded another in the breast, so that
both died.

On the alarm being given, Baltasar Gallegos, who happened
to be at hand, overtook the Indian before he could get back to the
wood, and slew him.

[Footnote 186: Unquestionably because they had none to produce. The beef and the hides were assuredly acquired
by hunting the wild American buffaloe or bison.-- E.] [Footnote 187:
In this rare instance our maps throw some light on the text. Nearly
in the latitude of the mouth of the Ohio, but 700 or 800 miles west
from the Missisippi, there is a nation named the Apaches Vaqueros,
probably the same indicated in the text.

The route thither from the Missisippi leads through several tribes of savage Indians, named Ozages, Paducas,
and Kanzez.-- E.] Having travelled above thirty leagues westwards through this province of the cow-herds,
they discovered a ridge of vast mountains still farther to the west, which from their own scouts and
the information of the Indians, they learnt were barren, desert,
and unpeopled. They were also informed, that if they bent their course
to the right hand, they would come into a desert country; but that
to the left, though a longer way, they would travel through inhabited
and plentiful countries [188].

Considering what they had endured in their late march through the desert intervening between Auche
and the country of Los Vaqueros, they had determined upon giving up their
first plan of proceeding by land to Mexico, thinking it better to
return to the great river, and so proceed to the sea pursuant to the
plan originally proposed by their late general.

They accordingly took long marches to the southwards, taking care not to offend the barbarians, yet
they were teased by frequent attacks while leaving the country of the cow-herds. On one of these
occasions a soldier was wounded by an arrow, which penetrated through
his greaves and thigh, and passing through the saddle lap, ran two fingers
breadth into the horses side, the arrow being made of reed with no other
head than the reed itself hardened in the fire and sloped to a point.
The wounded soldier was lifted from his horse, the arrow being previously
cut off between his thigh and the saddle, and he was left to cure
himself, as he had formerly performed many wonderful cures on his
comrades with only oil and wool, assisted by prayers.

But since the battle of Mavila, in which all the oil was lost, he had never attempted to cure
either others or himself, though twice wounded before, believing that the cure could not be performed
without oil and dirty wool. In this distress, he swore that he would not submit to the surgeons,
and would rather die than allow them to dress his wound. Having no oil, he substituted hogs lard, and
procured some wool from an Indian mantle, as the Spaniards had now no shirts or any other linen
among them, and to the astonishment of every one he was so sound in four days that he was able
to mount his horse on the fifth day. He now begged pardon of the soldiers for having allowed
so many of his comrades to perish, by refusing to cure them, as he had believed the efficacy of his
mode of cure depended on the oil, but as he now found that it consisted
in the holy words he had pronounced over the dressings, he desired
they might again recur to him when wounded, and he would exert himself
as formerly.

This soldier, named Sanjurgo Gallego, was very chaste, a good Christian, ever ready to serve all men,
and had many other virtues [189].

[Footnote 188: There is some ambiguity in the text, from which it
is difficult to ascertain whether the left and right hand of their
general line of march is now to be respectively considered as south
and north, or the contrary.

But as coupled with their intended return towards the great river,
now to the east, the left means probably the north, and the right
the south.-- E.] [Footnote 189: Though not mentioned in the text,
it is not improbable that Gallego had formerly placed considerable
dependence on the use of holy oil, or chrysm.

The whole
secret of his surgery seems to have consisted in the application of bland oils, and leaving
nature to operate, without the employment of the ancient barbarous methods of cure, by tents,
escharotics, cautery, and heating inflammatory applications; which in modern times, abandoned by surgeons,
have been adopted by farriers.-- E.] After leaving the territories
of the cow-herds, the Spaniards marched for twenty days through the
lands of other tribes.

Being of opinion that they had declined too much from, the direction of Guachacoya, to which place they
now proposed returning, the Spaniards now directed their course eastwards,
still inclining somewhat towards the north, so that in this way they crossed
the direction they had formerly gone in their march from Auche to
the country of the cow-herds, yet without perceiving it. Feelings which are really democratic have
reached those who fancy themselves aristocrats. We had scarcely a supporter.

'We should perhaps have a few now, when experience has shown that centralisation is still more
useful to an usurper than it is to a regular Government.'

[Footnote 1: See Vol. I. p. 212.--ED.]

August 18.--We drove in the afternoon to the coast, and sat in the shade of the little ricks
of sea-weed, gazing on an open sea as blue as the Mediterranean.

We talked of America.

'I can understand,' said Madame de Tocqueville, 'the indignation of the North against you.
It is, of course, excessive, but they had a right to expect you to be on their side in an anti-slavery
war.'

'They had no right,' I said, 'to expect from our Government anything but absolute neutrality.'

'But you need not,' she replied, 'have been so eager to put the South on the footing of belligerents.'

'On what other footing,' I asked, 'could we put them? In the present eventful period, while
Spain, once the terror of Europe, seems in danger of sinking under
the tyrannical grasp of the usurper of France, a vast revolution appears
about to elevate the Spanish American colonies into extensive independent
states; if the jealous collision of rights, interests, and pretensions
between the various races of their inhabitants do not plunge them
into all the horrors of civil war and anarchy.

The crisis is peculiarly interesting to all the friends of humanity,
and it is to be wished that the present commotions may soon subside
into a permanent state of peace and good government, advantageous
to all the best interests of the colonists, and beneficial to the
commerce and industry of the rest of the world. 

After a severe conflict of several hours, this detachment was driven back to the mountain with
heavy loss, so that the Araucanians were now placed between two fires;
yet they did not lose courage, and continued fighting till mid-day.

At length, worn out with the length of the combat, the Araucanian general drew off to the Biobio,
determined to collect a new army and to return to the attack.

Having in a short time reinforced his army, Caupolican began his march towards Conception; but,
learning on his way that the governor had received a numerous reinforcement, he halted on the banks
of the Biobio, deeply chagrined at not being able to effect the destruction of the new fortress
of Conception, which had been twice performed by Lautaro with the universal applause of the
nation.

In fact, on the preceding day the Spanish cavalry from Peru, consisting of 1000 well armed men,
had arrived at Conception, together with another squadron of Spanish horse from Imperial,
and 2000 Promaucian auxiliaries. Being now at the head of a numerous and well-appointed army,
Don Garcia determined to invade the Araucanian territory. For this purpose he crossed the Biobio
in boats, six miles above its mouth, where the river is about 1500
paces broad.

As the Spanish cannon in the boats commanded the opposite bank of the river, Caupolican made
no attempt to obstruct the passage, but drew up his army at no great distance in a position flanked
by thick woods, by which his retreat would be secured in case of
being defeated.

The battle began by several skirmishes, which ended in favour of the Araucanians; several advanced
parties of the Spaniards being repulsed by the enemy with loss, though
reinforced by order of Ramon the quarter-master-general. This is certain, that throughout the
Union, insolence to England has been an American statesman's road to popularity.'

Monday., August 19.--We walked in the afternoon over the commons overlooking the sea, and among
the shady lanes of this well-wooded country.

We came on a group of about twelve or thirteen reapers taking their evening meal of enormous
loaves of brown bread, basins of butter, and kegs of cider.

M. Roussell, the farmer in whose service they were, was sitting among them. He was an old friend
and constituent of Tocqueville, and for thirty years was Maire of Tocqueville. After several consultations
with the principal officers of his army, on the measures necessary
to be pursued on this emergency, in which Gonzalo could not act in
person as he had still to oppose the viceroy in the north, it was
determined to confide the care of an expedition against Centeno to
the lieutenant-general Carvajal.

For this purpose all the necessary orders and commissions were made out immediately in the
name of Gonzalo Pizarro, by which Carvajal was authorized to levy what men and money he might
deem necessary. This employment was very acceptable to Carvajal, as he believed he might derive
considerable profit to himself in its execution; and he set out from Quito accompanied only
by twenty persons, in whom he had great confidence.

The council of Gonzalo Pizarro had other and secret motives for recommending
the employment of Carvajal on this occasion, besides those which they
publickly avowed.

Some were desirous of acquiring by his absence a greater share in the management of affairs;
while others were anxious to send him to a distance, from the terror
inspired by his cruel and ferocious conduct, and his passionate temper,
owing to which he used often to put people to death on the most trifling
offences or the slightest suspicions.

But all the leaders in the army disguised their real sentiments on
this occasion, pretending that the importance of the affair required
the talents and experience of Carvajal to bring it to a successful
issue.

Leaving Quito, Carvajal went, directly to San Miguel, where the principal inhabitants went
out to meet him, and conducted him with much respect to the house
which was prepared for his reception.

On arriving there, he desired six of the most considerable persons belonging to the city to
dismount and accompany him into the house, under pretence that he
had something of importance to communicate to them from the governor.

Having caused the doors to be shut, and posted centinels to prevent any communication with
the rest of the inhabitants, he represented to these men, that Gonzalo was much incensed against
them for having always taken part with his enemies, and more especially on account of having
received and favoured the deposed viceroy, and of having readily supplied his army with every thing
of which they stood in need. On this account it had been his first intention to have destroyed
the city with fire and sword, without sparing a single inhabitant.

But, on reflecting that the magistrates and principal inhabitants only were to blame, the people
at large having been constrained by force or fear, he was now determined
to punish only the most guilty and to pardon the rest.

Yet, having certain private reasons for dissembling for the present with some of the principal
persons of the place, he had selected the six who were now present, as principal inhabitants,
to punish them as they richly deserved, that they might serve as a warning to all Peru. For
this reason, therefore, he desired them to confess their sins in preparation for death, as he
was resolved to have them all executed immediately.

They used every argument to exculpate themselves from the crimes kid to their charge, but all they
could say was without avail; and Carvajal even caused one of them to be strangled, against whom
he was particularly incensed, as he had been principally instrumental in constructing the royal
seal which the viceroy employed in his dispatches.

In the mean time, a rumour of what was going forward at the residence
of Carvajal spread over the city, and came to the knowledge of the
wives of the prisoners.

These ladies immediately implored the priests and monks who dwelt
in San Miguel to accompany them to the place where their husbands
were in so great danger. I could not give
it. "It does not much signify," he answered, "for as I see M. de Tocqueville every day, I will
talk to him about it myself." At that very time, the ordonnance dismissing M. de Tocqueville
had been signed, and Louis Napoleon knew that he would probably never see him again.'

'I do not,' said Ampere, 'give up the chance of a republic. I do not wish for one. It must
be a very bad constitutional monarchy which I should not prefer to the best republic. My democratic
illusions are gone. France and America have dispelled them: but it must be a very bad republic
which I should not prefer to the best despotism. A republic is like a fever, violent and frightful,
but not necessarily productive of organic mischief. In all this time, they must abstain from eating
the flesh of horses, cows, ostriches, or guanacos, must never wash
their faces which are constantly smeared with soot, and any breach
of chastity during this year of mourning is punished with the death
of both parties by the relations of the husband.

The office of ya, or chief, is hereditary, and all the sons of a ya may be chiefs likewise
if they can procure followers; but the dignity is of so little consequence that nobody almost
covets the office. To him belongs the office of protecting his followers, of composing differences,
and of delivering up any offender who is to be capitally punished;
in all which, cases his will is the sole law.

These petty despots are prone to bribery, and will readily sacrifice their vassals and even their
kindred for a good bribe. They are esteemed in proportion to their eloquence, and any chief
who is not himself eloquent employs an orator to harangue the tribe in his place. When two
or more tribes form an alliance against a common enemy, they elect
an apo, or commander-in-chief, from the ablest or most celebrated
of the yas, or hereditary chiefs.

But this office, though nominally elective, has been long hereditary among the southern tribes
in the family of Cangapol. The hereditary chiefs, named yas, elmens, or ulmens, have no power to take
any thing from their vassals, neither can they oblige them to perform any work without payment.
On the contrary they must treat them kindly and relieve their wants, or their vassals will
put themselves under the protection of a more generous chief. Many of them therefore wave the
privilege of their birth, and decline having any vassals, because they are expensive appendages,
which yield little profit. But every-one must attach themselves to some chief, or they would
undoubtedly be put to death or reduced to slavery.

Every man buys his wife from her relations, with or without her consent,
and then takes possession of her as his property.

But if the woman happens to have fixed her affections on another, she contrives to wear out
the patience of her purchaser, who either turns her away or sells her to the man of her choice,
but seldom uses her ill. Widows, and orphan girls are at their own disposal. The yas or ulmens
have generally two or three wives; and even the common people may have as many as they please,
but wives are dear and they are generally contented with one. The lives of the women are one continued
series of labour. They fetch wood and water; dress the victuals; make, mend, and clean the
tents; cure the skins; make them into mantles; spin and manufacture
ponchos; pack up every thing for a journey, even the tent poles; load,
unload, and arrange the baggage; straiten the girths of the horses;
carry the lance before their husbands; and at the end of the journey
set up the tents.

Sickness or even the most advanced pregnancy give no relief from these labours, and it would
be reckoned ignominious in the husbands to give them any assistance.

The women of noble families may have slaves to relieve them of these
labours; but when in want of these, must undergo the same fatigues
as the rest. The other most remarkable buildings are the church of San Domingo,
and that formerly belonging to the college of Jesuits.

Though convenient and handsomely built, the private houses are generally
of one story only, on account of frequent earthquakes. The workman who does not join in a strike is made miserable. They are generally
mischievous to the combined workmen themselves, and always to those of other trades. Some alleged that
he was summoned to the capital to receive deserved punishment for his cruel and tyrannical
conduct; while others said it was on purpose to strip him of more than 150,000 crowns which he
had amassed by pillage.
