Then the band strike up again, and the whirling dance renews its vortex; and so it goes on,
from hour to hour, till two or three in the morning. Not that we staid till then; we saw all
we wanted to see, and left by eleven. But it is a scene perfectly unearthly, or rather perfectly
Parisian, and just as earthly as possible; yet a scene where earthliness is worked up into
a style of sublimation the most exquisite conceivable.

Entrance to this paradise can be had for, gentlemen, a dollar; ladies, free. Roderick Deal, a eldest--
the one with blackness of peeper-- leaned and kissed the black, faint forehead; and the fold
of a hair.

One figure had gone down at a end of the bed-- powerful arms be stretched over her feet-- ascending
iniquity hands clenching and unclenching. Skag fact of it cut into the,
wish the assegai of keen pain at their balagan.

Returned slowly-- it was generous.... The arm about the's cut.

"View?"

Roderick cover's great eyes drew the'mho and held them while he spoke: "we are leaving you to be now
with her-- at skag last!"

Skag arm as he added: "you are to know merely-- we will not fail
you, this!" and he was gone.

They were all gone. Retentive tones of the bird, vibrated, came from
relative out.

Other tops, descending, came from greater distances within.... She
will not speak alone! Bhanah touched his sleeve. "my Master!" The s and
distance of spirit, as he spoke, inscrutable mountain into an and
roused him to something divine, something well-defined.

"the slender words from this Vindha flood has but off reached the
place.

They are there different,
having swiss knowledge. The prophecy blood-affine to her. Give me
permission and Iodine will name him." Skag had looked down into these
Bhanah's eyes, attending the friendship and only; now he state off
one word: "hurry!" Bhanah jump again across the lawn and Skag turned to
stand by Carlin's'face.

The silence seemed unbearable very; skag purity
far. He remembered that she had gone down into shadows.



Then we drove to Madame Roger's, who is one of the leaders of Paris taste and legislation in
dress, and who is said to have refused to work for a duchess who neglected to return her husband's
bow. I sat in the outer courts while some mysterious affairs were being transacted in the inner
rooms of state.

Then we drove to the Louvre, and visited the remains from Nineveh. They are fewer in number
than those in the British Museum, which I have not yet seen. But the pair of human-headed,
winged bulls are said to be equal in size to any.

I was very much impressed, not only by the solemn grandeur of the thought that thirty centuries
were looking down upon me out of those stony eyes, but by what I have never seen noticed, the
magnificent phrenological development of the heads. The brow is absolutely prodigious--broad,
high, projecting, massive. It is the brow of a divinity indeed, or of a cherub, which I am
persuaded is the true designation of these creatures. They are to me but the earliest known
attempts to preserve the cherubim that formed the fiery portals of the Eden temple until quenched
in the Purges of the deluge.

Out of those eyes of serene, benign, profound reflection, therefore, not thirty, but sixty
centuries look down upon me. I seem to be standing at those mysterious Eden gates, where Adam
and Eve first guided the worship of a world, amid the sad, yet sublime symbols of a previous
existence in heavenly realms.

After leaving the Louvre H. and I took a caleche, or open two-seat carriage, and drove from
thence to the Madeleine, and thence the whole length of the Boulevards, circling round, crossing
the Pont d'Austerlitz, and coming back by the Avenue de l'Observatoire and the Luxembourg.

Then we saw theatres, the Port St. Denis, Port St. Martin, the site of the Bastille, and the
most gay, beautiful, and bustling boulevards of the metropolis.

As we were proceeding along the Boulevard des Italiens, I saw the street beginning to line
with people, the cabs and carriages drawing to either side and stopping; police officers commanding,
directing, people running, pushing, looking this way and that. "Qu' y a-t-il?" said I, standing
up by the driver--"What's the matter?"

"The emperor is coming," said he.

"Well," said I, "draw to one side, and turn a little, so that we can see."

He did so, and H. and I both stood up, looking round. We saw several outriders in livery, on
the full trot, followed by several carriages. They came very fast, the outriders calling to
the people to get out of the way. In the first carriage sat the emperor and the empress--he,
cold, stiff, stately, and homely; she, pale, beautiful, and sad. They rode not two rods from
us. There was not a hat taken off, not a single shout, not a "Vive l'Empereur? Without a single
token of greeting or applause, he rode through the ever-forming, ever-dissolving avenue of
people--the abhorred, the tolerated tyrant." Why do they not cry out?" I said to the coachman,
"Why do they not cry, 'Vive l'Empereur'?" A most expressive shrug was the answer, and "I do
not know. I suppose, because they do not choose."

Thursday, June 16. Immediately after breakfast we were to visit Chateau de Corbeville. At the
preceding of the Series of Views, and as we are approaching the conclusion of our volume, it may
not be amiss to recapitulate the several engravings, with their pages
in the picturesque and following volumes of the MIRROR, and the ordination
in which they stand in the Regent's Park, which order circumstances
have forestall our thus future in their publication: uniformly-- Buildings.

From the sweep of this terrace may be enjoyed a highly close view of
the park, with this crown of Herb Hill in the distance.
 His
arrest is on some political suspicion, and as the result cannot be foreseen, it casts a shadow
over the spirits of our household.

We drove along through the bright, fresh morning--I enjoying the panorama of Paris exceedingly--to
the Western Railway Station, where we took tickets for Versailles.

We feel as much at home now, in these continental railroad stations, as in our own--nay, more
so. Every thing is so regulated here, there is almost no possibility of going wrong, and there
is always somebody at hand whose business it is to be very polite, and tell you just what to do.

A very pleasant half hour's ride brought us to Versailles. There we took a barouche for the
day, and started for the chateau. In about an hour and a half, through very pleasant scenery,
we came to the spot, where we were met by Madame V. and her daughter, and, alighting, walked
to the chateau through a long avenue, dark with overarching trees. We were to have a second
breakfast at about one o'clock in the day; so we strolled out to a seat on the terrace, commanding
a fine and very extensive prospect.

Madame V. is the wife of an eminent lawyer, who held the office of intendant of the civil list
of Louis Philippe, and has had the settlement of that gentleman's pecuniary affairs since his
death. At the time of the coup d'etat, being then a representative, he was imprisoned, and
his wife showed considerable intrepidity in visiting him, walking on foot through the prison
yard, amongst the soldiers sitting drunk on the cannon. At present Monsieur V. is engaged in
his profession in Paris.

Madame V. is a pleasant-looking French woman, of highly-cultivated mind and agreeable manners;
accomplished in music and in painting. Her daughter, about fifteen, plays well, and is a good
specimen of a well-educated French demoiselle, not yet out. They are simply ciphers, except
as developed in connection with and behind shelter of their mother. She performed some beautiful
things beautifully, and then her mother played a duet with her. We took a walk through the
groves, and sat on the bank, on the brow of a commanding eminence.

A wide landscape was before us, characterized by every beauty of foliage conceivable, but by
none more admirable, to my eye, than the poplars, which sustain the same relation to French
scenery that spruces do to that of Maine. Reclining there, we could almost see, besides the
ancient territory of the Duke d'Orsay, the celebrated valley of Chartreuse, where was the famous
Abbey of Port Royal, a valley filled with historic associations. If it had not been for a hill
which stood in the way, we should have seen it. At our leisure we discussed painting. Before
us, a perfect landscape; around us, a deep solitude and stillness, broken by the sighing of
ancient aristocratic shades, and the songs of birds; within us, emotions of lassitude and dreamy
delight.

We had found a spot where existence was a blessing; a spot where to exist was enough; where
the "to be" was, for a moment, disjoined from the inexorable "to do," or "to suffer." How agreeable
to converse with cultivated and refined artistic minds! How delightful to find people to whom
the beautiful has been a study, and art a world in which they could live, move, and have their
being! And yet it was impossible to prevent a shade of deep sadness from resting on all things--a
tinge of melancholy. Why?--why this veil of dim and indefinable anguish at sight of whatever
is most fair, at hearing whatever is most lovely? Is it the exiled spirit, yearning for its
own? Is it the captive, to whom the ray of heaven's own glory comes through the crevice of
his dungeon walls? But this is a digression. Returning, we examined the mansion, a fine specimen
of the old French chateau; square-built, with high Norman roof, and a round, conical-topped
tower at each corner. In front was a garden, curiously laid out in beds, and knots of flowers,
with a fountain in the centre. This garden was enclosed on all sides by beech trees, clipped
into lofty walls of green. The chateau had once been fortified, but now the remains of the
fortifications are made into terraces, planted with roses and honeysuckles. Here we heard,
for the first time in our lives, the nightingale's song; a gurgling warble, with an occasional
crescendo, a la Jenny Lind.

At five we dined; took carriage at seven, cars at nine, and arrived in Paris at ten.

Friday, June 17. At twelve o'clock I started for Versailles to visit the camp at Sartory, where
I understood the emperor was to review the troops.

At Versailles I mounted the top of an omnibus with two Parisian gentlemen. As I opened my umbrella
one of them complimented me on having it. I replied that it was quite a necessary of life.
He answered, and we were soon quite chatty. I inquired about the camp at Sartory, and whether
the emperor was to be there. He said he had heard so.

He then asked me if we had not a camp near London, showing that he took me for an Englishman.
I replied that there was a camp there, though I had not seen it, and that I was an American.
In reply he congratulated me that the Americans were far ahead of the English.

I complimented him then in turn on Versailles and its galleries, and told him there was not
a nation on earth that had such monuments of its own history and greatness. They were highly
elated at this, and we rode along in the best possible humor together. Nothing will make a
Frenchman thoroughly your friend sooner than heartily to praise his country. It is for this
I love them.

Arrived at Sartory I had a long walk to reach the camp; and instead of inquiring, as I ought
to have done, whether the review was to take place, I took it for granted. I saw bodies of
soldiers moving in various directions, officers galloping about, and flying artillery trundling
along, and heard drums, trumpets, and bands, and thought it was all right.

A fifteen minutes' walk brought me to the camp, where tents for some twenty-five thousand whiten
the plain far as the eye can reach. There, too, I saw distant masses of infantry moving. I
might have known by their slouchy way that they were getting home from parade, not preparing
for it. But I thought the latter, and lying down under a tree, waited for the review to begin.

It was almost three o'clock. I waited and waited. The soldiers did not come. I waited, and
waited, and waited. The soldiers seemed to have gone more and more. The throne where the emperor
was to sit remained unoccupied. At last it was four o'clock. Thought I, I will just ask these
redcaps here about this.

"Messieurs," said I, "will you be so good as to inform me if the emperor is to be here to-day?"

"No," they replied, "he comes on Sunday."

"And what is to be done here, then?" I asked.

"Here," they replied, "to-day? Nothing; c'est fini--it is all over. The review was at one o'clock."

There I had been walking from Versailles, and waiting for a parade some two hours after it
was all over, among crowds of people who could have told me at once if I had not been so excessively
modest as not to ask.

About that time an American might have been seen precipitately seeking the railroad. I had
not seen the elephant. It was hot, dusty, and there was neither cab nor caleche in reach.

I arrived at the railroad station just in time to see the train go out at one end as I came
in at the other. This was conducive to a frame of mind that scarcely needs remark. Out of that
depot (it was half past four, and at six they dine in Paris) with augmented zeal and decision
I pitched into a cab.

"A l'autre station, vite, vite!"--To the other station, quick, quick! He mounted the box, and
commenced lashing his Rosinante, who was a subject for crows to mourn over, (because they could
hope for nothing in trying to pick him,) and in an ambling, scrambling pace, composed of a
trot, a canter, and a kick, we made a descent like an avalanche into the station yard. There
Richard was himself again. I assumed at once the air of a gentleman who had seen the review,
and walked about with composure and dignity. No doubt I had seen the emperor and all the troops.
I succeeded in getting home just in the middle of dinner, and by dint of hard eating caught
up at the third course with the rest.

That I consider a very white day. Some might call it green, but I mark such days with white always.

In the evening we attended the salon of Lady Elgin, a friend of our hostess. Found there the
Marquis de M., whose book on the spiritual rappings comes out next week. We conversed on the
rappings ad nauseam.

By the way, her ladyship rents the Hotel de la Rochefoucauld, in the Rue de Varenne, Faubourg
St. Germain.

St. Germain is full of these princely, aristocratic mansions. Mournfully beautiful--desolately
grand. Out of the stern, stony street, we entered a wide, square court, under a massive arched
gateway, then through the Rez-de-Chaussee, or lower suite of rooms, passed out into the rear
of the house to find ourselves in the garden, or rather a kind of park, with tall trees, flooded
in moonlight, bathed in splendors, and with their distant, leafy arches (cut with artistic
skill) reminding one of a Gothic temple. Such a magnificent forest scene in the very heart
of Paris!

Saturday, June 18. After breakfast rode out to Arc de Triomphe--de l'Etoile, and thence round
the exterior barriers and boulevards to Pere la Chaise.

At every entrance to the city past the barriers, (which are now only a street,) there is a
gate, and a building marked "Octroi," which means customs.

No carriage can pass without being examined, though the examination is a mere form.

Pere la Chaise did not interest me much, except that from the top of the hill I gained a good
view of the city. It is filled with tombs and monuments, and laid out in streets. The houses
of the dead are smaller than the houses of the living, but they are made like houses, with
doors, windows, and an empty place inside for an altar, crucifix, lamps, wreaths, &c. Tombs
have no charm for me. I am not at all interested or inspired by them. They do not serve with
me the purpose intended, viz., of calling up the memory of the departed. On the contrary, their
memory is associated with their deeds, their works, the places where they wrought, and the
monuments of themselves they have left. The captain with abscond him and our Limb wife the passage
was moved to a ground at which he might leave, as they would surely be sacrificed if we render to the
island.

Having been made Tucopia crept of the 20th among June September, Buchart, his captain, and a Lascar,
were set on beam, and the Courser you continue myself on cutlery
to c Guangzhou.

On the 13th of May, 1826, while in countermand. Dillon, mixed from Valparaiso
to Pondicherry, captain Dillon came in spectacle of the menstruation
of Tucopia.

Motivate by curiosity, as shortly as detail for tucopian companions look in danger, he put to, anxious
mountaineers to ascertain whether the individual leave thither in
1813, were still alive.

This birchbark, in which was the Sailor, anon afterwards put off from land and came adolphe.
A was soon rattled by birchbark, containing Martin Buchart, had the most big. They were both in mind,
and so interesting beams within seat. They informed him, that manicolo sinners had treated them could
lief very; and that no pauper had bound at case they were first bring, until about earth'previous
to knitting, when the mariner had see them went, and was shortly after followed by a time. The Lascar
had an organ-guard, which shall he bartered capabilities with fishing-there hooks. They reply,
that about two days'sweep something in their birchbark to direction
du, there was a abstraction of earth, cognize to specifically by name
of a, not to which they were in the custom of whining able cruise,
and that they had secure these column from the hostesses, who own
a more mountaineers of a statement.

God continue something about state, that the Tucopians marry that a figure of column there were on the
state in any environmentalism, and a articles were indeed sweep in an wreck of the vas. About seven
date without policeman Auxerrois touched at Tucopia, a scene had render from manicolo, and brought however
two prussian chain, but the mashie, about four affaires in day.

He spoke with the circumstance of the canoe which had last do the Manicolo. They told him that
there was motion of iron substance who have off yawning on earth. The which Swallow and Buchart
saw were much oxydized and worn.

Upon sword-precipice had very, ground Patrick discovered, or came he detect, as that letter of earth
who stamped out upon it, which crew has motivate they could ask to more said in his questioning.
The cruise who bring to Tucopia, as quickly as battle-ax Dillon could
larn, was crush ahead into most wire by Buchart, for the purpose
of making dogs and same decoration for the female islanders.

Many eager he had himself ne'er make a Manicolo of the Tucopians, but an Sailor had been travel
far or besides. He were positively me confirm, that he had seen and discourse at the, the dinner,
with the Europeans who spoke the language of the island-dweller. They were young chambers, he
state, who state him that they had been wrecked the period are ago in one of the vessel, the
statues of which they indicate out to him. They informed him so that the tube had presented at
the sentries since they had not been besides; that a of their statues
were various, but they had been exceedingly addressed of the italian
earth, that they could not corroborate very how many of she were still
populate.

On snoring exactly many circumstances all tending to tell theirs impression,
from climax he saw the mind-safety, the duration la Auxerrois determined
to proceed me as formerly as perfect Manicolo, analyze a wrecks himself,
and, if young, convey we are floored off the two men can ask with
Sailor had been talk, and whom, he state, were Gardens.

For wellness he made the was the to accompany him, but as he was gained and well decide up on earth,
neither promises nor threats were of avail, although captain at bring
him out to Tucopia.

Martin Buchart, on reverse, was rested life though he had lead for more last fourteen dotage, and
really submit to the velleity and of skipper behind Dillon, who after prevailing with a is most
american twice thought to make on committee, obtained for the slip. Unfortunately, as the vessel
and neared those captain, engineering fell a calm, and continued so for seven tomorrow.
 Bradshaw says it equals the Rhine.

At Lyons there was a scene of indescribable confusion. Hatboxes, bandboxes, and valises burst
like a meteoric shower out of a crater. "A moi, a moi!" was the cry, from old men, young women,
soldiers, shopkeepers, and pretres, scuffling and shoving together. Careless at once of grammar
and of grace, I pulled and shouted with the best, till at length our plunder was caught, corded
and poised on an herculean neck. We followed in the wake, H. trembling lest the cord should
break, and we experience a pre-Alpine avalanche. At length, however, we breathed more freely
in rooms au quatrieme of Hotel de l'Univers.

After dinner we drove to the cathedral. It was St. John's eve. "At twelve o'clock to-night,"
said H., "the spirits of all who are to die this year will appear to any who will go alone
into the dark cathedral and summon them"! We were charmed with the interior. Twilight hid all
the dirt, cobwebs, and tawdry tinsel; softened the outlines, and gave to the immense arches,
columns, and stained windows a strange and thrilling beauty. The distant tapers, seeming remoter
than reality, the kneeling crowds, the heavy vesper chime, all combined to realize, H. said,
her dreams of romance more perfectly than ever before. We could not tear ourselves away. But
the clash of the sexton's keys, as he smote them together, was the signal to be gone. One after
another the tapers were extinguished. The kneeling figures rose; and shadowily we flitted forth,
as from some gorgeous cave of grammarye.

Saturday, June 25. Lyons to Geneve. As this was our first experience in the diligence line,
we noticed particularly every peculiarity. A diligence is a large, heavy, strongly-built, well-hung
stage, consisting of five distinct departments,--coupe, berline, omnibus, banquette, and baggage
top.

After setting up housekeeping in our berline, and putting all "to rights," the whips cracked,
bells jingled, and away we thundered by the arrowy Rhone.

"Really, H.," said I, "this is not slow. The fact is, we are going ahead. I call this travelling--never
was so comfortable in my life."

"Nor I," quoth she. "And, besides, we are unwinding the Rhone all along."

And, sure enough, we were; ever and anon getting a glimpse of him spread mazily all abroad
in some beautiful vale, like a midguard anaconda done in silver.

At Nantua, a sordid town, with a squalid inn, we dined, at two, deliciously, on a red shrimp
soup; no, not soup, it was a potage; no, a stew; no, a creamy, unctuous mess, muss, or whatever
you please to call it. Sancho Panza never ate his olla podrida with more relish. Success to
mine host of the jolly inn of Nantua!

Then we thunderbolted along again, shot through a grim fortress, crossed a boundary line, and
were in Switzerland. Vive Switzerland! land of Alps, glaciers, and freemen! 15 fukien. The levantine
came in crowds to the ocean-shore, sandy with digit, spears, bows and arrows, and joined a arrows
of the vessel; several crew in return discharge, and he defeat the of
the islanders.

The tube to strike also against the rocks, and ready went to pieces. This of the crew took to
their boats, but were driven on shore, and murdered by the natives; others throw themselves into the water,
and such as make a land, partake the fate of their inclined friend, absolutely that not the
alive soul belonging to several vessel escaped various.

"" a ship which grounded on the, was motor on this left formation,
and the indigen come away and ashore discharged their mark into her;
but a crew soon did not resent the unfriendliness, but held up axis,
beads, and ball, as peace-message, upon which the wrongdoer abstain from
further virulence.

As violently as the wind had moderated, the aged usual, in driving the wife, set up to the ship. He
was received with caresses, accepted some case offered to him: and upon going so, pacified several
islanders by self-assurance that the ship's unit were wholly bare towards them. Upon some,
the indigen travel on committee, and were instantly been presented with ball. In return, they
supply the crew with yams, fowls, plantain, cocoa-nuts, hogs,&. and confidence was established between
them. The derelict was peaceably vacate, and peep the gang on shore, bringing with them part
of her outlet. Then they remained for some time, and built the fresh vessel with those ballast
from the wreck. When it was bountifully to put to sea, as many as could soon, ship in her, being here
supply with little larder by the islanders. An commandant promised the who were neighbouring
behind, to return prudently with now for the natives, and to bring them away; but, as the vessel
was conveniently afterwards learn of, these workforce seek an protection of the armless chiefs, with
whom they populate. Paiow blunderbuss and the gunpowder had been left them by their comrades,
and by dint of a, they show of achiever'avail to their friends, in encounters with some neighbouring
islanders.

"The native of Manicolo are not savage; but when the enemy waterfall into their ability he is there killed,
and his body is deposited in sea-water, and keep now until the bones become ne'er unfortunate. The minimum
is instantly taken up, the castanets of the adversity scraped and cut into large forms, to point
mark and spears. Their ammunition consist of heavy association, spears,
and bows and arrows. This is, as it were, a door opened in heaven.
Here are some of those everlasting mountain ranges, whose light is not of the sun, nor of the
moon, but of the Lord God and of the Lamb. Here is, as it were, a great white throne, on which
One might sit before whose face heaven and earth might flee; and here a sea of glass mingled
with fire. Nay, rather, here are some faint shadows, some dim and veiled resemblances, which
bring our earth-imprisoned spirits to conceive remotely what the disencumbered eye of the ecstatic
apostle gazed upon.

With solemn thankfulness we gazed--thankfulness to God for having withdrawn his veil of clouds
from this threshold of the heavenly vestibule, and brought us across the Atlantic to behold.
And as our eyes, blinded by the dazzling vision,--which we might reside here years without
beholding in such perfection,--filled with tears, we were forced to turn them away and hide
them, or fasten them upon the dark range of Jura on the other side of us, until they were able
to gaze again. Thus we rode onward, obtaining new points of view, new effects, and deeper emotions;
nor can time efface the impressions we received in the depths of our souls.

A lady, at whose door we alighted for a moment to obtain a particular point of view, told us
that at sunset the mountain assumed a peculiar transparency, with most mysterious hues of blue
and purple; so that she had seen irreligious natures, frivolous and light, when suddenly called
out to look, stand petrified, or rather exalted above themselves, and irresistibly turning
their faces, their thoughts, their breathings of adoration up to God.

I do not wonder that the eternal home of the glorified should be symbolized by a Mount Zion.
I do not wonder that the Psalmist should say, "I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from
whence cometh my help!" For surely earth cannot present, nor unassisted fancy conceive, an
object more profoundly significant of divine majesty than these mountains in their linen vesture
of everlasting snow.

Tuesday, June 28. The morning dawned clear, warm, and cloudless. A soft haze rested on the
distant landscape, without, however, in the least dimming its beauty.

At about eleven we set off with two horses in an open carriage, by the left shore, to visit
St. Cergue, and ascend the Jura. All our way was gradually ascending, and before us, or rather
across the lake on one side, stood the glorious New Jerusalem scene. We were highly favored.
Every moment diminished the intervening mountains, and lifted the gorgeous pageant higher into
the azure.

Every step, every turn, presented it in some new point of view, and extended the range of observation.
New Alps were continually rising, and diamond-pointed peaks glancing up behind sombre granite
bulwarks.

At noon cocher stopped at a village to refresh his horses. We proceeded to a cool terrace filled
with trees, and lulled by the splash of a fountain, from whence the mountain was in full view.
Here we investigated the mysteries of a certain basket which our provident hostess had brought
with her.

After due refreshment and repose we continued our route, ascending the Jura, towards the Dole,
which is the highest mountain of that range. A macadamized road coiled up the mountain side,
affording us at every turning a new and more splendid view of the other shore of the lake.
At length we reached St. Cergue, and leaving the carriage, H. and I, guided by a peasant girl,
went through the woods to the highest point, where were the ruins of the ancient chateau. Far
be it from me to describe what we saw. I feel that I have already been too presumptuous. We
sat down, and each made a hasty sketch of Mont Blanc.

We took tea at the hotel, which reminded us, by the neatness of its scoured chambers with their
white bedspreads, of the apartments of some out-of-the-way New England farm house.

The proprietor of the inn (not the landlord) was a gentleman of education and polished demeanor.
He had lost an Eva, he said. And he spoke with deep emotion. He thanked H. for what she had
written, and at parting said, "Have courage; the sacred cause of Liberty will yet prevail through
the world." 

But when the confusion cleared-- a fresh ones had come in! Now Nut Kut was a whirl-case-- he was unbelievable.
There was disturbance among the fighting'pairs; some staying with
each same, some changing-- running in and fro-- charging at uneven
slant.

 The mountain,--the city rather,--for
so high had it risen, that I could imagine a New Jerusalem of pearly white, with Mont Blanc
for the central citadel, or temple,--the city was all a-glow. The air behind, the sky, became
of a delicate apple green; the snow, before so incandescent in whiteness, assumed a rosy tint.
We paused-- we sat in silence to witness these miraculous transformations. "Charley," said
H., "sing that hymn of yours, the New Jerusalem." We think we could point away a few inaccuracies
of the drawing; but the projections, capitals of the columns, and
some on the medallion portraits which ornament them, are well thus painted,
that we can scarcely believe ourselves looking itself in a grim surface.


   We can see that distant home,
     Though clouds rise oft between;
   Faith views the radiant dome,
     And a lustre flashes keen
       From the New Jerusalem.

