The other end, balancing the ball of gold, mounted the largest single polished emerald crystal
in the discovered universe. Neither the Moon or Mars had produced anything in the emerald line
equivalent to what had come out of the mists of Earthly history.

       *       *       *       *       *

Disregarding the bulletin, Jason kept Moglaut at the servo-tracer. In the night's smallest
hours it began placidly to hum on Lonnie's aura again.

"What happened?" Jason said. "What did you do?"

Moglaut shrugged.

"You must have done something. What was it?"

Moglaut, not looking up from the purring machine, shook his head.

"All right. You can go now." Jason watched the genius disappear hurriedly through the door.
From the door he watched the man scutter down the long, long corridor out of sight. The first
thing in the morning, Jason promised himself, he'd have a session about Moglaut with Lab Nine's
chief.

The first thing in the morning brought word that Lab Nine's erratic genius had stumbled himself
out of the seventeenth-floor window of his suburban apartment to his death. Lab Nine's chief
clucked sorrowfully.

Jason shook his head and wondered. After exhaustive investigation (zero data) he still wondered.
That's all he was able to do, wonder.

The second time Jason's servo-tracer on Lonnie hiccupped and dozed off was at 12:01 a.m., August
7th, 2008, just one day after the Diamond Throne arrived on Earth. The single, glittering diamond
crystal, misshapen like an armchair and larger than one, had been mined out of the core of
Tycho's crater. And it was also just two days before the Moon Throne would have been installed
in the unbreakable safety of Raichi Museum!

"Jason, you're insane," his superior told him when Jason, reinforced by an astounding public
furore, brought the matter up. "He owned it. He had no reason to steal it from himself. Besides,
one man alone couldn't budge that enormous--"

"It won't do any harm to look-see."

"It can do a lot of harm!" The Commissioner glanced quickly at the ceiling. "I'll have nothing
to do with it. That's all."

Officially, Jason's hands were tied. But secretly he maneuvered the transfer of a five-layers-down
undercover man from Madras to Government City. And, coincidentally, in the ordinary routine
of operation, Raichi Museum took on a new janitor; a little brown man who grinned constantly
and was fanatical about dust. He was a good, reliable man and when he reported that neither
the Diamond Throne nor any of the other missing glories were anywhere in the Museum, Jason
had to believe him.

As a matter of fact, it wouldn't have done Jason any good to have installed the little brown
man in Lonnie's mansion, either. The lock--not the apparent one openly in the den door, but
the real one--was as unobtrusive and foolproof as twenty-first-century engineering could make
it. And Lonnie always made sure he was alone and unobserved in the den before he locked it
and sauntered across to bestow a peculiar, multiple tweak to the nose of Genghis Khan.

He enjoyed the gesture. On Christmas Eve he grinned broadly while the triptych pivoted in the
wall, let him off in the Kruppmartite-walled, pulsing radiance of his very secret, very, very
personal throne room, and swung back into place.

His grin changed to an expression of imperial dignity as he encased himself in Catherine the
Great's ermine Robe of State and grasped the Mace of Alexander in his good left hand. But then
the royal mien gave way to a sullen scowl as he hesitated between Charlemagne's Crown and Amenhotep's
Uraeus.

Actually, neither one was worthy of him. Both purely regional coronets belonged over in the
farthest dusty corner behind the curtain, along with Schicklehitler's shabby baton and that
crummy Peacock Throne. What he really needed was a crown worthily symbolic of the position
he'd make it possible to publicly assume in the not-too-distant future.

It was a damned imposition that he had to put up with. Well, he'd make them do since they were
the best to be had. Adjusting the Crown of Charlemagne upon his brow, he stood on tiptoe to
wriggle his way back into the embrace of the titanic crystal that was the Diamond Throne. As nearly
as can be determined, the provocation of the maxillary is instead 12.0 mm.
The teeth on the maxillary are small and look to be in iv longitudinal
rows.

The bears two large, grooved teeth shall anteriorly; the first
is approximately 1.0 mm. a posteromedial to the naris and the flash
of millimeter. posterior and slightly lateral to the naris.

The flat up ventral surfaces of the palatine but pterygoid bear numerous small teeth distributed as shown
in the Fig. 4. Braincase and Occipital Region (Caprifig. 5) The parts
of the neurocranium are scattered, disconnected and overt, but it
is possible to make out a number of features of the otico-occipital
section with fair assurance.



(... witness the Berlin chestnut pullers. And the unobtrusive and undiscovered spate of their
predecessors whose usefulness had become outweighed ...)

Then Boswell had said, "Rule Two: You don't have to know the how of anything. All you have
to know is the man who does. He always has a price. The currency is usually odd, but find it,
pay it, then proceed per Rule One."

Even tonight, in his own Throne Room, Lonnie flushed heavily at the way he'd accepted at face
value what came next. "By the way," Old Boswell had added smoothly, "no connection of course,
my boy, but the topic reminded me. Here are the keys to that daffodil-hued tri-phibian you
ogled at Sporter's exhibit. I must admit you have an eye for dashing machinery even though
I can't agree with your esthetics. No--no ... It's yours. I feel that you've earned it and
more by--"

He'd rushed to the garage to gloat over the mono-cyclic, gyro-stabilized, U-powered model with
the seat that flattened into a convenient bed at the touch of a button. The tri-phib, he recalled,
in which he'd coaxed Agnes into taking her first ride.

III

The details of that recollection brought up his spirits again and, he reminded himself, the
lesson had sunk in; had developed into his most useful ethic. After his narrow scrape with
Jason's quantum analyzer in the Berlin incident, it hadn't taken long for a good, one-man detective
agency to locate Physlab Nine's frenetic genius, Moglaut. It had taken longer to discover Moglaut's
currency but, after much shadowing, the 'tec had come through handsomely. Lonnie, automatically
applying his fully-developed Ethic One, always considered it a nice sentimental touch that
the one-man agency's final case was successful.

Moglaut's price was a prim, brunette soprano who wore her eyes disguised behind heavy tortoiseshell.
The ill-cut garb she could afford added greatly to her staid appearance, obscuring a certain
full-bodied litheness. She earned a throttled existence soloing at funerals and in the worship
halls of obscure, rigidly fanatic offshoot sects.

Her consuming passion was to be an opera prima donna.

Lonnie never tried to understand why Moglaut sat fascinated through endless sin-busting sermons
and lachrymose requiems. To hurry afterwards, with the jerky motions, the glazed eyes of a
zombie, to subsequent rendezvous with the soprano at his suburban apartment. It was entirely
sufficient in Lonnie's philosophy that Moglaut did.

The soprano's continuing suburban cooperation was insured by Lonnie's judicious doling out
of exactly the cash to keep a tenth-rate opera company barely functioning in a lesser quarter
of Government City. Oddly, he found it pleased him and from that grew his wide patronizing
of the Arts.

The immediate result of the situation he created and controlled so deftly was Moglaut's production
of a closed-plenum grid suit.

None of Gov-Pol, Gov-Mil or Gov-Econ labs found out about it; much less Pol-Anx or Government
itself. Moglaut did all the work in the tiny complete lab Lonnie set up in the suburbs.

Lonnie didn't care what electronic witchery took place in the minute spatial interstices between
the finely-woven mesh of flexible tantalum. Sufficient for him, the silvery white suit once
donned and triple-zipped through hood and glove-endings, he was immune to ordinary Earthly
phenomena; free to move about, do what he wished, untraceably. In it, his words were not vulnerable
to the sono-beam's eavesdropping. Photo-electric and magneto-photonic watchdogs ignored him.
Even the most delicately sensitive thermo-couples continued their dreams of freezing flame
undisturbed. Jason's quantum analyzer couldn't pick up the leavings of a glance--all that the
suit permitted out into the physical world.

The suit had its limitations, of course. Lonnie could see out, but the suit could also be seen.
That required sometimes intricate advance planning to offset. Also, occasionally, manipulating
the field of the grid to permit mechanical contact with the physical world was a trifle cumbersome
but never annoyingly so. All it took was a modicum of step-by-step thought and some care not
to leave a personal trace for the quantum analyzer to pick up. No actual trouble. And, finally,
Moglaut had warned that the compact power unit pocketed on the left breast had a half-life
of only thirteen years.

That left Lonnie placid. He took the suit for granted and used it for what it let him do.

When something more was needed, he was convinced his philosophy would provide it.

He didn't waste time trying to determine whether possession of the suit or previous experiences
leading to his insistence on its development brought into focus the third ethic of his philosophy:
"Rules One and Two are valuable and have their use. But when the chips are really down, do
it yourself!" Instead, he toddled about personally acquiring the trappings of omnipotent royalty
with little thought for the means.

       *       *       *       *       *

But while he was about that business, the very limitations of the grid suit furnished an unending
challenge to Moglaut's genius. And out of a sideline experiment incited by that challenge came
the disarmer which Jason greeted with such fruitless glee.

Fruitless because, of course, before turning the disarmer over to Lab Nine and Pol-Anx, Moglaut
devised a new, infinitely stronger, more versatile power pack for Lonnie's suit. A power pack
controlled by a simple rheostat in the palm of the left-hand glove, but whose energy derived
from the electron-kinetic properties of pent and shielded tritium. Not simple. In fact, solving
the problem of penning and shielding tritium in a portable package delayed the appearance of
Jason's disarmer two whole years.

That power pack and the reciprocating properties of the fields of the grid suit itself made
a dilly of a combination. Before, the closed-plenum mesh kept Lonnie from leaving traces. Now,
anything once embraced within the palpitating fields of the grid moved with and how the suit
moved; not in accord with the natural laws of the surrounding continuum. That neat new attribute
took care of the cubic yard or so of Diamond Throne.

And the ravenous tritium was malignant. Let any external power be applied against the plenum
and it would be smashed, hurled back full force upon its source.

Jason had an undiagnosed example of that when he got only part of his man back from the Valley
of Kings.

It was the power-pack-grid-suit combo that made a sleeping Buddha of the servo-tracer on the
night of Jason's call at Lonnie's mansion; bollixed up the elaborate guards of the Peiping
Temple of Mankind; and, when Jason so openly displayed suspicion of the genius, made child's
play of what the newspapers headlined as "Scientist's Amazing Suicide Love Pact."

Lonnie grinned, remembering the incident. Then other memories--things he'd witnessed through
a tight-beam scanner secreted in the suburban apartment--crowded his mind; stirring him restlessly
on the Diamond Throne. Divesting himself of imperial appurtenances, he started for a certain
locked file in the den to check the specifications of available per-diem empresses.

Making sure the triptych was snugly in place behind him, he paused to flip the switch on the
stereo cube. Maybe Messalina Magdalen or one of the lesser ecdysiasts was presenting the perfection
of her techniques over the private channel at the moment, an event he would appreciate.

Instead, the private channel presented, as the cube glowed and cleared, the same red, clawed
landscape he'd shown to Jason months before. Peabody (1958) placed Hesperoherpeton in the Anthracosauria, suborder
Merton, family. Resurvey of the second and more specimen resembles that Cricotidae is developed unlike
more right Embolomeri in the critical characteristic. The one extremity and your braincase there are
a great than the then been incomplete described in the middle. The vertebrae are comparable sidelines
to the of who Wilson (Jarvik, 1952), as about as to the of.. The forelimb is transitional fin
be thought of Who Boswell and add than such limb remembered of early Amphibia. Those pattern of
the furcula of forelimb approximately reveals, but is lower than, that of the column by Eaton
(--). The head unitedly had good four scattered days. The pull limb is not be cognize. The
skeleton of Hesperoherpeton lies in the block of his limy shale measuring
only 100×. after pull be thought out of those man, than the bowman
bones and boy were embedded in bioplastic, in a early enough for visibleness
but giving firm.

Approximately make the specimen was not amphibian and the array had broken from side; this has not
been continue with bioplastic. The bones stand in artificial condition, except that the parts
of the roof of the skull are relate, and the section of those type is seemingly in place. Those
bones of foreleg are close closely and not in point. The head, pelvis
he, and hind limbs and left forelimb are missing.

Nearly all the entire are removed, falsify by crushing, far and short out of place, probably by
the action of currents. The skeleton, in an life, dorsoventrally measured up between 150 and 200
mm. in circumference. The specimen was studied at any Museum of natural History, University of Boswell
KS, with the help of the grant from many Foundation, number NSF-the Embolomeri The specimen was
discovered in the slab by Miss Sharon Millenary. Moriarty, and was further developed of the days.
Mr. Embolomeri C. exposed assisted with the illustrations.

We are not indebted Dr. Robert W. Ichthyostegalia for primitive comments.
SKULL thick Facet (Sidelines. 1, 2) to reconstruction, had the skull measures
had unfailingly 8.0 mm. again twittering the rule.

 Listen ...

"'We, Wold, last of the Imperial Family of Wold who exercise our Power from Wold, the Imperial
City, throughout Wold, the Planet. We, last of the line of Wold, who alone may wear the Tiara
which is Our Power, and our Symbol of Power, and the Symbol of Our Power throughout all the
edos of Raii's life-taking light, without fear, facing the fate--'"

Hissing, Lonnie cut the stereo switch. He'd seen enough. Darting across the den, he opened
his communico. "Get me Sykes in our Mars unit," he ordered the operator. "Make sure what I
say is scrambled. While you're waiting, get through to Denisen at Gov-Forn, then Raikes at
Gov-Planet, then Butchwaeu in Gov-Int. And keep this line closed--that means you, too--while
I'm talking."

Lonnie--THE Launcelot Raichi--was going after what he wanted.

Just under a mile away, Jason turned from the public stereo in the rotunda of Pol-Anx. Tapping
the cold bit of his pipe against his teeth as he walked, he sought the ease of his chair. In
the privacy of his office he began to ponder.

The months' developments gave him no surprise. Because it was the first contact Humanity had
had with a non-human race, the Mars discoveries made an overwhelming impression on the man
in the street. The result was that for the first time in Post-Synthesis history all artifacts
were reserved for Earth Public!!!

Everyone Who Mattered screamed, except Lonnie. He evinced a biding calmness while attending
the ceremonies marking the installation of the Tiara of Wold in the exact center of Government's
own Fane of Artifacts; even smiling benignly on certain Gov-Ficials who seemed to perspire
more than the coolness of the evening warranted.

Jason, loitering on the grass of Gov-Park, noted the smile and the perspiration. The perspirers
reminded him of small boys expecting a whipping.

Once the dedication ceremonies were over, Lonnie never returned to the Fane to examine the Tiara.

It was Jason the Tiara seemed to fascinate. He spent more and more time, particularly evenings,
crouching on the bench in Gov-Park across from the Tiara, ignoring the constant stream of awed
tourists silhouetted against the blaze of light. He kept in constant touch with his desk sergeant
through his pocket communico, so Annex business didn't suffer. And the summer was warm, to
say the least, so that several Gov-Ficials were almost regretful that the dignity of their
positions forbade following Jason's example.

But then, too, no mere cop had their responsibilities.

None of them was conscious of how habitually Jason frowned, scratched his head, moved uneasily
on the pleasant bench. Occasionally, he would snap his fingers and the frown would relax. He'd
switch on the communico and speak briefly. Immediately thereafter, one or the other of the
hand-picked four in Jason's personal squad would raise his eyebrows slightly--safely, since
the pocket communico did not project video--and take up a new position or new duties. Or, an
equipment unit in Op-room at Anx would be indifferently retuned by heedless techs.

Then for a while Jason would vent smoke pleasantly from his malodorous pipe until the frown
would settle back between his eyebrows and he'd begin to squirm on the bench again, glancing
warily at Executive Level, feeling helpless about the inadequacy of his resources.

But Lonnie had gotten over feeling sad about his resources months earlier.

The night he'd returned from the Tiara ceremonies he'd locked himself in his den and let the
on-view smile his face was wearing lapse. He tweaked Genghis Khan's nose viciously and slammed
himself down in the Diamond Throne without donning a single imperial trapping, pounding his
fist on the cool mineral facet and staring morosely at the grid suit hanging in its place on
the wall.

The grid suit wouldn't help him this time. The cover-alls that had everything except the necessary
invisibility to--

Invisibility!

Slowly, Lonnie began to grin. Very little later he had an obscure biochemist hooked, and ended
his instructions with: "... don't care if it needs concentrated essence of chameleon juice.
Invent it. And it better work for there's going to be a total shortage of neo-hyperacth at
two-twenty-eight per cc for wifey!"

The biochemist delivered. Lonnie didn't stop to question if it really was essence of chameleon
juice. He hurried with the beaker of viscous fluid to his throne room, drenched every square
centimeter of the grid suit with it and watched breathlessly through the hours while it dried.

In the glowing, shadowless illumination, the suit gradually disappeared. First, the wall against
which it hung shone mistily through it. Then there was wall, slightly outlined by a greyish
cast. And at last, only an indescribable fuzziness that had to be sensed rather than seen.

V

He took the fuzziness off its hanger and threw it up in the air toward the center light. The
light was undimmed. The fuzziness was air. It sprawled down across the Throne and became diamond,
except for the sleeve that dangled; part air, part intricately patterned Persian carpet. It
wasn't a fuzziness, exactly, it was more of a faint tone of difference in the color-texture
feel. It was as though what was behind the suit was miraculously translated to its facing surface
and then reflected to the eye within the nth of utter fidelity.

Grinning, slowly Lonnie's lower lip crept out and up to squeeze its mate. Then, because it
was always better to be sure, he donned the suit to try it against a variety of experimental
backgrounds, indoors and out.

Over at Pol-Anx, the servo-tracer went to sleep; the desk sergeant yanked the creaking joints
of his bunioned feet down off Jason's desk; on the bench in Gov-Park, Jason's communico squeaked
briefly and Jason and his four men rose to emergency alert.

Two hours later, the Wold Tiara still coruscating in the Fane's blaze of light, the servo-tracer
picked up its placid humming. Jason's communico squeaked again and Jason's men relaxed while
Jason himself clutched his head with both hands and whispered bitter things.

At the same time, Lonnie, whistling cheerfully, drew his legs out of the suit, shook it straight
and hung it back on the wall. He was sure now. As sure as he was that the little biochemist
and his wife and quintet of daughters would not want for neo-hyperacth or anything else any
longer. He giggled a little, thinking of Jason crouched on the bench, glaring vacantly, utterly
unconscious of Lonnie passing across the grass so close beside him.

At his own convenience, Lonnie selected his night; a full-moon night because his now-invisible
grid suit didn't require dark. He picked a fairly early hour, too, because what matter if a
few yawps gawked as the Tiara vanished? And that one of those yawps would be Jason, stodgily
on his bench, gave Lonnie an extra fillip. Perhaps it was just for this he'd let Jason plug
along on a cold trail all these years.

So that night, wearily from his bench in Gov-Park, Jason looked up at Friday the 13th's full
moon swimming amiably through its own reflected night-brightness. His brain, tired of its everlasting
shuttle between worries, presented him with a disconnected memory-fact: "As cited by Zollner,"
Jason found himself quoting a forgotten textbook, "the Moon's reflectivity is point one seven
four ... Nuts!" Angrily, he broke off, thumbed the button of his communico, growled into the
microphone on his lapel, "Report."

"Adams," came promptly back. "West Entry. Nothing."

"McGillis. Patrolling rear wall. All clear in both directions as far as I can see. An' I can
see both ends of the Fane in all this moonlight, Chief."

"Holland. At Raichi House. Nothing."

"Johnson. East Entry. More of the same." Then, "Say, Jase, how about it? These double shifts
are getting me."

"What's the matter with you, now?"

"My feet hurt, Jase. Neither one of us is as young as we used to be, remember. How about knocking
off?"

"Hmphf ..." Johnson, Jason thought, was getting old. He'd been a good man in his day but--
Hey, he was still a good man! It was Jason's own stubbornness that was wearing Johnson down.
Jason's useless stubbornness. After all, without the backing of Anx or Gov, without results
from the equipment he had filched to use on Lonnie, what was the use of everlastingly sticking
around the Tiara like a fly buzzing molasso-saccharine anyway? Jason opened his mouth to send
them all home, pressed the communico button and--shelved the relieving order temporarily. Instead,
he blasted into the microphone: "Sergeant! SERGEANT!"

From the communico, an intermittent drone became a gasping gulp; changed into a violent yawn
and only then turned into startled speech. "Yeah? Huh?... Yeah, Chief!"

"Sergeant, if I ever catch you asleep again, you won't ever get your pension."

"Chief, I wasn't asleep! Honest! I--"

"All right. What's happening up there?"

"Nothin' ... nothin' ... I wasn't asleep, Chief. I'd'a called you 'f anything--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Something bright, or was it dull, plucked at the edge of Jason's vision. Inside the Fane, far
down at one end. A thin, vertical bar of difference in the blaze of light. Chin half turned,
Jason stared. What?...

"Chief! That tracer's asleep--I mean--that there tracer's just GONE t'sleep! I mean--Chief! It's--"

"Shut up!" Jason hissed. "Holland! If you've let anyone slip past you out of that house--"

"Nobody did. You know me better than that, Chief."

"Adams! McGillis! Johnson! What's happening?"

"Nothing ..."

"Not a thing ..."

"Johnson!" Jason licked suddenly dry lips. "Dammit, Johnson, report!... Johnson!"

Silence.

Grimly, Jason watched the vertical bar of different brightness edge back to the Fane's East
wall and disappear into the even dazzle of the marble. He had a feeling it wasn't any use calling
Johnson again. Ever.

"Chief, what's up? What do we do?"

"Huh? Oh ... You, Holland, get over to the East Entry as fast as your legs'll stretch."

"There in three minutes flat!"

"You, too, McGillis."

"On my way!"

"Adams, you stick at that West Entry. If anything gets past you, I'll--"

"Don't worry, Chief. I've got Johnson to even up for."

Not watching how he ran, Jason hurled himself toward the East Entry; his eyes following, in
the opposite direction, a dullness moving in the blaze inside the Fane. A smoothly moving,
white on white, unfaced ghost of whiteness within, a part of, the blazing radionic light. Just
as he rounded the East end of the Fane, he glimpsed the vertical bar of whiteness again--the
edge of the marble slab that was the entry door, reflecting the blazing light at a different
angle. Behind it, McGillis's tightly grinning face. Under McGillis's face, the stab of blue-white
light reflected a glancing ray from the old-fashioned solid-missile service pistol that Jason
had insisted all four men arm themselves with for this assignment.

Over the sound of his own labored breathing as he plunged through the East Entry, Jason heard
panting behind him. Holland. Holland bettering his promised three minutes--and with a forbidden
disarmer in his hand. Guiltily, Jason felt the weight of the disarmer he had himself secreted
under his armpit.

Then there wasn't time for thinking or feeling, only for running down the dazzling half-mile
inside the Fane to the Tiara. Up ahead, the different-white shape was motionless in front of
it. Oddly, a dark, vertical line appeared from the top to what would be the waist of the shape.
And for the instant it took the Tiara to vanish inside, Jason saw clearly in the radiant light
the profile of Lonnie's unmistakable face. Saw Lonnie's eyes swivel in the direction of the
thundering echoes of their footfalls in the silence of the Fane. Saw Lonnie turn toward them,
the dark line disappearing from waist to top as if it had never been.

Once more the different-whiteness moved. Toward them. Edging for the back wall to skirt around
them; one limb-shape fumbling in the palm of the other.

"No you don't!" McGillis, ahead of Jason, yelled, his howl drowned in the smacking crack of
his pistol.

There seemed to be a waver in the different-whiteness. A small black dot appeared against it;
hung briefly, apparently unsupported, in the air; then the undistorted bullet dropped inertly
to the floor.

"You still won't!" McGillis hurled himself, shoulders low and legs driving, at the shape. Two
feet from it, he rebounded sharply, trod on the rolling bullet, went down, his head splatting
dully against the marble floor.

Holland grunted. Crouched to leap. Thrust his disarmer high, ready to snap into line.

"Hold it!" Jason commanded. Silently, eyelids barely separated to endure the dazzle, he stared
at the different-whiteness that confronted him. "I made it this time, Lonnie," he called. "Caught
up with you-- No!" His arm flung out, startling him with the feel of his disarmer now oddly
in his hand.

"Don't move!"

The white-within-white's limb-shapes moved up, the hand-ends one over the other. Through the
minute spaces the overlapping fingers left, glimpses of a thin dark line appeared. The hood
was open a trifle at mouth level, and from the opening Lonnie's voice emerged, sifting through
the protecting screen of gloves. "You can't see me! You can't!"

"No? Take one step sideways. Just one! Stop!"

The different-whiteness had moved, and Holland had moved with it; crouching now, alertly motionless,
in his new position. Jason changed the angle of his own facing. "Now do you think we can't
see you?"

"But ... but how!"

"Your albedo is showing," Jason chuckled harshly. "You never would take the trouble to learn
the how of anything, Lonnie. Sure, your damned disguise is the same color as the marble. Maybe
even exactly the same. But the material is different, and the surface texture; it doesn't have
the same degree or quality of reflectivity to incident light that marble does!

"Eighty years ago, even the commercial photographers knew about albedo--one of 'em made a picture
of a cat, white on white. I told you about the reflectivity in your stereo cube. But you wouldn't
listen, Lonnie, would you?" Jason let out a bursting peal of laughter. "So you tripped over
your own albedo!"

Through the dying echoes of his own laughter, Jason caught Lonnie's harsh whisper. "You haven't
got me, copper!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The black line marking the opening in the grid suit disappeared. The barely-discernible limb-shapes
dropped, one hand-end again fumbling at the rheostat in the palm of the other.

"I'll get him, Chief!" Holland was in action, his disarmer snapping down into aim.

"No!" Jason roared. "Holland, don't!"

Too late. Under the pressure of Holland's finger, the disarmer's invisible ion-stream tightened
to the thread-thin lethal intensity, leaped out against the suit's grid. Then the disarmer
was luminous even in the dazzle; even through the flesh of Holland's fist. Holland screamed
and squirmed and dropped. Part of him--the part that wasn't burned away--reached the floor.

The stench of carbonized flesh scoured Jason's nostrils. Stupidly, he stared down at the headless,
shoulderless, armless torso; black ... sooty ... against the snowy gleam of the floor; conscious
of the sidelong, round-about approach of the different-white figure. He'd failed again. Lonnie,
in that damned suit, was impervious.

Slowly, he raised his eyes from the thing on the floor to the thing approaching. One consolation,
he himself wouldn't go on living after this. With grim frustration, he raised his arm in a
final, fruitless gesture and hurled the useless disarmer at the shape of Lonnie.

It halted, dead, in mid-air, a yard away from the shape-thing. Dropped straight down, clanging
against the floor.

A quiver as of mirth appeared to shake the different-whiteness. It stooped. One hand-end fumbled
at the palmed rheostat, then dropped to pick up the disarmer. Fumbled again at the rheostat
while the figure straightened up to point the glistening projector at Jason's belly.

The dark opening in the hood appeared again.

Lonnie's voice chortled, "Told you I'd use whatever you tried to smear you with. Goodbye, Jasey
..."

The dark line was gone. The disarmer, turned to lethal potential, settled in the shape's hand-end
and began to spout. Jason went stiff. Every muscle of his body clenching to withstand obliteration.

He waited for it. Tight ... except his eyes that, in spite of themselves, opened.

Caught within the field, the full power of the disarmer poured itself into the suit. The suit's
capacity absorbed it. Almost. Then turned the combined energies on itself.

With the smell of frying organic matter, slowly the grid-coveralls appeared in dazzling radiance
within the dazzle of the Fane's lights; glowed in it; red--then white--hot. Whiter than the
light itself--far, far lighter than any reflected rays could make it.

Inside the all-encompassing, roasting grid of the melting suit, Lonnie writhed. Faintly, as
the suit failed, his screams came through--momentarily. Then they were gone as the fused, molten
heap subsided lower ... lower ... began to trickle across the dazzling, ice-white marble of
the floor.

Afterward, had Jason known anything at all about Lonnie's Philosophy, he'd have immediately
supplied another "rule"; making a foursome out of the "Triple Ethic": "If you do it yourself,
make sure you know what you're doing."

Transcriber's Note: