"As we raided the interplanetary commerce, I began to weed out the people we captured. Those
that showed the highest intelligence, sense of justice and physical perfection I selected to
be the nucleus of a new race, to be kept on Titan for a time and then to be transplanted to
a new planet of one of the nearer solar systems.

"My principal trouble is with the crew. They can collect ransom only on those I reject, and
there are constant clashes between me and Gore. It is now my intention to let them go their
way, and to fit out a new ship, with a new crew. I offer you the place of first mate."

"No!" Quirl replied crisply. "You say you understand the honor of the Force, and then offer
me a job pirating with you. No, thanks!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Strom, or Burroughs, made no attempt to conceal his disappointment. The recital of his wrongs
had brought out the bitter lines of his face, and the weariness of one who plays his game alone
and can call no one friend.

"I should have known better," he said quietly. "There was none more loyal to the I.F.P. than
I--when I still belonged to it. Yet, I thought if I laid all my cards before you--You realize
what this means?"

"Yes," Quirl replied soberly. "It means you will never dare to let me be ransomed nor to free
me among your selected people. It means--death!"

"Not death! I will parole you."

Quirl felt an overmastering surge of sympathy. He saw this pirate as later historians have
come to see him--a man of lofty and noble purpose who was made the victim of shrewder, meaner
minds in the most despicable interplanetary imbroglio ever to disgrace a solar system. The
thought of his own fate, should he refuse the offer, did not depress Quirl as much as the necessity
of heaping more disappointment on this deeply wronged "man without a planet."

"Captain," he said slowly, with deep regret. "You remember the I.F.P. oath?" And at the other's
flush he hurried on. "Knowing that oath you know what my answer must be. Put me in irons or
kill me!"

"I know," Strom added wistfully. "Would you--if I could just once more shake the clean hand
of a brave man and a gentleman--"

Quirl's hand shot out and gripped the long, powerful fingers of the pirate captain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Quirl was willing to compromise to the extent of not revealing anything to the other passengers,
for the privilege of being kept in the prison hold rather than in solitary confinement. Here
he would be under the vigilant eye of a guard, with possibly less chance of effecting an escape
in some way, but he felt a great desire to be near the girl Lenore, and to know that she was
safe and in good spirits.

They fastened him by means of a light chain and hoop that locked around his waist to a staple
set in the floor near one wall. The other prisoners regarded him as a hero, for since the day
of the epic fight the mate had kept away, and they had been treated with tolerable decency.
Quirl was able to cheer them up with predictions that the most of them would be eligible to
ransom. But as he looked at the pale beauty of Lenore he felt grave misgivings, for he knew
that a man of Strom's discernment would want her for his projected Utopia without question.

She did not speak to him while the hero-worshipping crowd were fluttering about him to their
heart's content. When they finally left him alone she came up to him silently, and sat on the
floor beside him.

"I want to thank you," she said quietly, clearly, "for what you did for me and my brother, Mr.--"

"Finner. Quirl Finner. I have thought of you as Lenore, and wondered how you were. How long
has it been since they took me out? You see--" he grinned, "I was asleep."

"Five days. At least, they turned off the lights five times for the sleeping periods."

"The man who fought for you--how is he?"

"My brother--is dead!"

Quirl looked away so that he should not see the quick tears springing to her eyes. But a few
moments later he felt her cool hand on his scarred forehead, and she was smiling bravely.

"Tragedies such as these, Quirl, were common in the lives of our ancestors. They were able
to bear them, and we can bear them. All his life my poor brother has lived as a gentleman,
sheltered, protected by class barriers. When he died of pneumonia caused by the jagged end
of a broken rib--so Dr. Stoddard says--I think he had a lively sense of satisfaction that he
should end in such a way. If it had not been for me--"

       *       *       *       *       *

She came to him often, after that, to sit quietly by his side, and to bring his food to him
from the big community bowl which even the most fastidious of the prisoners had come to look
forward to. She told of her life as the daughter of a capitalist who owned large mine holdings
on Titan. It would be about time for the Celestia to reach Titan, and her non-arrival would
be causing anxiety to Lenore's father awaiting her there. The void would be swarming with I.F.P.
patrols, but as the pirate ship was invisible nothing would be found but the mysteriously looted
and abandoned Celestia.

There was no longer any reason for concealing from her the fact that he himself was a member
of the I.F.P., and Quirl told Lenore of the adventurous life he and his companions had led.
Of forays to far-away and as yet undisciplined Pluto, of tropical Venus and Mercury, where
the rains never cease, of the hostile and almost unknown planet of Aryl, within the orbit of
Mercury, where no man has ever seen a true image of the landscape because of the stupendous
and never-ending mirages.

As time passed they were drawn together by the bonds of propinquity and mutual interest--this
obscure police officer and the daughter of one of the most powerful men in the solar system.
But Quirl did not name his love, for always there was the grim present of their captivity,
the ghastly uncertainty of the future.

The little "galley boy" Sorko seemed daily more frail. Apparently the fall he had sustained
had done him some internal injury. Often the guard, with many a ribald comment, had to help
him get his emptied bowl back up the ladder.

       *       *       *       *       *

One day he seemed overcome by great weakness. Staggering, he held his hand to his sweat-dewed
forehead. Erratically he waltzed across the floor, to crumple in a heap where Quirl and the
girl were sitting. From 60° or 65°, when the Gore drops could quickly to bolt 50°, and remains far other
morning.'the summer, and had almost from it in motionless countries, parches up the door, and
yield it had the diamond, while the'cold weight-winds could him rise the
light, and call for flannels and overcoats.'in gore and December S,
but before midwinter, had the fall, and the jump becomes early pasturage
and flowers.
 They were barely audible:

"I'm all right, lady. You done me a good turn when you made Gore put me down, and I'm doin'
you one now. I wouldn't do this for no one else." He gasped.

"Water!" Lenore exclaimed sharply, and Quirl handed her the rest of his cup.

"Ain't water he wants," the amused guard observed. "The blighter's playin' for a good chew
of merclite!"[1]

[Footnote 1: Merclite, a highly stimulating gum. It was prohibited by interplanetary proclamation,
but was always obtainable through the surreptitious channels of a highly profitable traffic.]

"I ain't as bad as I'm makin' out," Sorko whispered. "Got to do it to tell you this, 'cause
you was square with me. Gore is fixin' to have a mut'ny. Kill captain, kill all these dubs
here--this guy of yourn, too. He wants to take you for his--" the weazened little face twisted
in unwonted shy delicacy--"take you for him, pretty lady. I don't want him to. I'm not--a--bad
feller--"

"What the hell, Sorko!" the puzzled guard exclaimed over the delay. "You bandy-legged rat,
get up there, or I'll give you a jolt."

Lenore looked up, indignant.

"You heartless wretch! Would you let this man--"

"Comin'!" Sorko scrambling to his feet, shuffling to the table, where he retrieved his bowl.
Quirl and Lenore watched his painful progress up the ladder, until at last he disappeared into
the passage.

"Quirl," she murmured, as her hand sought his, "take this."

He felt a small bit of metal, and looking at it cautiously, saw that he had a rough key, filed
out of a piece of flat metal.

"The key to that hoop around your waist. He copied it from the one the captain has, I suppose."

       *       *       *       *       *

His hopes high all at once, Quirl sought the compact little lock in the small of his back.
It took a long time to get the key in, and then it would not turn. It had been unskillfully
made, and was probably not a true reproduction. Nevertheless, by constant effort, he succeeded
at last in turning it, and was rewarded by hearing a faint click. He tested the hoop, felt
it slip, and knew that at any time he chose he could free himself.

"Lenore, dear," he told her. "Go with the other women now. We must do nothing to make the guard
suspicious. We don't know when this mutiny is to come off, but we are close to Saturn now;
it can't be long. Go now."

"Good-by, dear. Be careful!"

It seemed an eternity until the emanation disk became dim and went out and the prisoners made
sleepy sounds. A relief guard took station, and the ship became silent, so that one could hear
the rumbling of the propelling rockets. As there were no ports in this hold, there was no light
whatever except the faint glow that came from the central passage above the platform. Against
this the pirate was outlined as he sat on his stool. As Quirl's eyes became accustomed to the
darkness he could see the play of faint highlights on his muscular torso, and so he waited.

He thought over the situation. The safest and easiest course would be to create such a disturbance
that Captain Strom would be attracted to the scene. This would probably not involve anything
more than a severe beating for himself, and he would then find opportunity to acquaint Strom
with the projected mutiny somehow. That Strom would know how to deal with it he never doubted.
Lenore might then still be forcibly impressed as a citizen of Strom's new planet, but at least
she would not be exposed to the infinitely worse fate of becoming the plaything of Gore and
his villainous crew.

       *       *       *       *       *

The flaw of this plan was that Quirl himself would still be under practical sentence of death.
Strom would not let his gratitude carry him so far as to release a man who knew as much as
Quirl did, and who would not promise to keep his secrets.

The preferable, though far more dangerous course was to strike before the mutineers could.
Quirl knew something about the structure of the ship. It was built around the tubular passage,
and every hold or group of rooms opened on this well, from the bow where the navigators were
to the stern where the rockets were located. Somewhere there would be a generating room where
the invisibility field was being produced. If he could find this and wreck the generators one
of the I.F.P. ships with which this part of space doubtless swarmed, would sight them, and
after that everything was in the hands of fate.

Quirl nervously waited for the guard to nod. At any moment he expected to hear a hellish bedlam
break loose--the beginning of the mutiny. And the guard seemed alert. There was nothing to
do but take a chance.

Quirl sighed as if he were turning in his sleep, so that the clink of the released chain would
not seem out of place. The guard did not stir. Slowly, very slowly, Quirl crept across the
floor. He had been robbed of all his clothing except his torn silk trousers; and his boots
were gone, so he was able to move as quietly as a cat.

With tense silence he ascended the ladder, praying that his weight would not send up a warning
vibration. But his luck held. He was nearly at the top before it broke.

"Take him off! Take him off!" It was an eery, strangled shriek from one of the male prisoners
in the throes of a nightmare. With a startled curse the guard thudded to his feet, peered tensely
into the darkness, his weapon sending twin milky beams of the powerful ionizing ray toward
the source of the sound.

       *       *       *       *       *

The dreamer had awakened, still gasping in the grip of fear, and other disturbed sleepers were
grumbling.

"Better go easy, you fools," the pirate warned them. "Yer just in luck that I didn't let loose
a couple bolts on ye. Got a good notion to do it, anyway." He played the dangerous little spots
of light around, amused as the prisoners scrambled for safety, but with no real intention of
releasing the deadly electric charge along the paths provided for it. This cruel pleasure cost
him his life. As he turned his back Quirl leaped. His iron-hard forearm rose and fell, and
the edge of his hand came down on the back of the pirate's thick neck. There was a muffled
crack and he slumped to the platform grating.

Quickly the officer stripped off the man's harness and buckled it around his own naked chest.
The electrogun had been uninjured, and hooked to the belt was also the riot club, a truly appalling
thing at close quarters. Quirl carried the body down, laid it prone in the corner he had occupied,
snapped on the waistlock, and threw a ragged old blanket over the hairy legs. In the forthcoming
disturbance, if anyone looked in, he would think the inert form a sleeping prisoner, and that
the guard had deserted post.

Quirl had feared an outbreak among the prisoners, but they were so apathetic that they paid
little attention. Perhaps they thought it was Quirl who had been killed, and he did not dare
even a whispered farewell to the girl he knew was watching somewhere in the darkness.

Much to Quirl's delight, the long, tubular passage was deserted. Here the centrifugal gravity
was less than it had been in the hold. A weird place, this central tube, where every direction
was down, and a man could walk on his ceiling, his floor, his walls with equal facility. No
top nor bottom--just a long, smooth tube with numerous enigmatic doors leading to--where?

At least it was easy to tell where the bow of the ship was. A light shone through a transom
over the door to the navigating room. Should he try to hold up the navigating officer? He decided
against that. There would be at least three men in there, and it was the custom to keep those
quarters locked.

"If only I knew where they generate the invisibility field!" he muttered, as he stood irresolute.

       *       *       *       *       *

Opportunity came at that moment. A crack of light appeared along the passage. A door was opening
there. A moment later a head and shoulders showed. Someone was climbing up. Swiftly the officer
ran to the place. The pirate did not even suspect anything wrong until he felt the spots of
milky light on his face. He showed his terror plainly.

"Get up!" Quirl hissed. Me ought there, then, from quirl of all, but merely one for publisher to exact
bunks to the retailer, leaving him showed to sell at what profit
he pleases or can now get?

In the quirl, some would still undersell bunks; and get the fixed troubles
would however be experienced.
 "I'm with Gore in this deal. Lay off!"

"Where you bound for?"

"I have to relieve Burke at the ventilating turbines."

"Let Burke wait. Lead on to the invisibility generators."

"Oh, I can't do that, mister! I got to have a pass. Say, mister, I was just kidding about being
one of Gore's men. I'm for the cap'n, yes, sir!"

"You lying scum!" Quirl barked impatiently. "Get going!"

The white-faced and bewildered pirate led the way down the tube to the after end. He unlatched
a door and tried to enter, but as soon as he had dropped through to the platform he was met
by a guard with leveled ionizer.

"This gem'man," he started to explain. But Quirl dropped after him and gave him a powerful
shove, so that he crashed into the guard. The latter pulled the trigger, and the unfortunate
pirate crashed over the platform's edge to the floor. Quirl had out his own electrogun and
dispatched the guard. At the same time he felt a stunning shock. His senses reeled, but the
grating had taken part of the discharge loosed by a pirate electrician at the foot of the ladder.
Quirl threw his riot club and followed that up with another lightning bolt.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was then the only living person in the room, in which two generators hummed softly. Connected
to them was a bank of U-shaped tubes, each as tall as a man, which were filled with silent
livid fire. Quirl picked up a wrench and started hammering at the thick tubes until the glass
cracked. Each time he was engulfed by a wave of heat, and the tube became black. The great
generators idled and automatically came to a stop. Quirl was certain now that the pirate ship
would be visible, but the position of the captives was still desperate. He hoped that none
of the surviving pirates would think of calling at the generator room, or find out in some
other way that they were now visible in the eternal day of space.

Quietly he climbed back to the passage and closed the hatch. He cast about for his next move.
He was looking toward the bow, but on hearing the subdued clink of metal on metal, he turned.

A dozen of the pirates were coming toward him.

It would have been useless to draw his weapon. Theirs were out and could have burned him to
a crisp before he could move. Silently and with deadliness apparent in every move they approached
him.

"Hope they try to capture me alive!" he thought. "What a dog-fight that'll be!"

Now they were nearly up to him.

"Come along, you fool!" barked the leader of the group as they were all around him. "Sapheads
like you'll give the whole game away."

Quirl could have laughed. This was evidently part of the mutineers' crew bent on their errand
of murder. In the dim light they had taken him for one of their number. He went with them, meekly.

"Unlocked!" The leader whom Quirl had not seen before, exclaimed with satisfaction. He pulled
the hatch open softly and the hinges had been oiled. Quietly as panthers they descended the
ladder. They stood at the bottom. Still another door barred the way. Quirl now realized that
they were attacking the captain's quarters. But the leader produced a key, and silently swung
the door open.

"So, you dogs! You've come!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Like an infuriated bull Captain Strom charged them, a riot club in each hand. He could have
killed them all with a ray, but he chose to vent in physical action his consuming anger at
their treachery, which he had in some way anticipated. Three or four went sprawling under his
mighty blows. The others sought shelter behind tables and chests, and began stabbing at him
with their electroguns. Electricity crackled, and the air became pungent with ozone. A pair
of the twin rays struck the captain's gold braid, and he went down. With a triumphant yell
a man dashed at him, murderous club up-raised. But Quirl was faster, and the pirate fell dead
with a crushed skull.

Strom was up again, fighting beside Quirl. The pirates remaining fell under their furious blows,
and the two dashed out. Strom said nothing, and Quirl was not sure that he had been recognized.
The captain charged straight for the navigating bow. Here, unless he should be attacked by
the I.F.P. he could still control the situation. He was perhaps still ignorant of the ship's
visibility.

But Quirl made for the prisoners' hold. They would be cowering there, probably in darkness,
not knowing what was going on. It was his intention to rally them, provide them with the weapons
of the fallen pirates, and so be in a position to advantageously make terms with whoever was
victorious in this battle.

He saw, as he approached that the light was on. He was hardly a dozen feet away when the door
was darkened. Quirl did not have to hear her cry to know that Gore had Lenore.

       *       *       *       *       *

Running with remarkable speed, the mate carried his prize toward the after end of the tube.
A hatch stood open there, and he dropped through, slamming it after him.

Quirl picked up a bar that someone had dropped. It was but a matter of moments to break the
lock and pull open the hatch. The hold was lighted, and empty. In its middle, holding the helpless
Lenore, stood Gore, the electrogun in his hand covering the platform.

"Boy scout to the rescue again!" Gore sneered. He was even more repulsive than before, with
the marks Quirl had left on him in the last battle. But he was fearless and utterly reckless.
"Well, m'lad, I know when I'm done. And when a fellow's done he don't care what happens. So
here's the lay: When I get out of here, I'll be dead. And she'll be dead, or you'll wish she
was. Get it? She'll be killed, too, if you jolt me--the shock'll pass to her. And the first
man-jack who crosses that grating'll get his from me. Now then, go ahead and pull! Goin' to
kill us both, or leave her to me?" He laughed defiantly, like one who counts himself already dead.

Quirl tentatively placed one foot on the platform. Instantly a fat spark jumped from the metal
to his foot, and sent him sprawling into the tube. He saw Strom coming toward him. He had killed
his enemies in the control room and was now on the hunt for more.

"Thanks for what you did," he grunted. As a forlorn hope, Quirl explained the situation. Strom
smiled a rare smile.

"That's all right," he said mildly. "Quirl, you're a square man, and I'd rather do something
for a square enemy than a false friend. Oh, I can do it cheaply. The jig's up for me, anyway!"

Quickly he dropped through the door and launched himself. Another Female'element Right Convention has
been held, and an Industrial s'Congress. However the communication show in a housing against female
physicians, it is sure that they would find favor among a large category
of invalids.

        Lenore
picked up Gore's weapon, but dared not use it for fear of injuring her lover. As the two fighting
men circled warily, seeking openings in this battle that must be fatal to one of them, they
did not see the slight, shadowy figure that dropped down to them. There was a flash, and Gore
slumped, a knife in his back.

"I done it! I done for him!" chattered Sorko. "The dirty, lousy--"

"Come, Lenore, let's get up to the bow before the pirates think of it." They dashed up the
ladder. Some more of the disks were out, and it was nearly dark. Three sinewy forms pounced
on Quirl the moment he entered the passage. The girl, too, was caught, though she fought and bit.

"Lights! Let's have some lights!" commanded an authoritative voice.

"Coming, sir!" came a far-away answer.

The passage became bright, and Quirl looked into the faces of his captors, in the uniforms
of the I.F.P.

"Got you, you dirty pirate!" gloated the husky young man on his chest.

"Mike!" Quirl gasped, "don't you know me? How'd you get here?"

"Dog-gone! Finner! Leggo his legs, you eggs."

"Trailed you," he added. "Glommed our magnets on the navigating bow. Expected a fight, but
some big guy let us in through an airlock. Well, he'd done plenty of scrapping--all the clothes
torn off him. Half a dozen dead pirates in there. Who is he?"

Quirl thought of the stiffening body of Lieutenant Burroughs, alias Captain Strom, who had
just purchased his life and that of Lenore at the cost of his own. Was his undeserved shame
now to follow him to his grave? Quirl was no lawyer, and he decided not to take any chances
with the law's mercy. He said:

"I don't know his name. A prisoner from some other ship, I think. He was very homesick for
Earth, and I'll see he gets a decent grave on Earth. He died to save me."

"As for the lady," he added, "let her go. She's a captive. And, anyway, I think she is the
future Mrs. Quirl Finner."

She smiled, and the men of the Force looked somewhat enviously at Quirl.

"Say," Quirl said, taking Lenore's hand and anxious to be rid of them, "if you find a little
monkey-faced guy down in that hold, go easy with him. He's a good man, too, and I'm going to
recommend his pardon."

       *       *       *       *       *