OCCASIONAL PAPERS, NO. 15.

  The American Negro Academy.

  PEONAGE

  --BY--
  LAFAYETTE M. HERSHAW

  PRICE  :  :  15 CTS.

  WASHINGTON, D. C.:
  PUBLISHED BY THE ACADEMY
  1915

PEONAGE

BY LAFAYETTE M. HERSHAW

The Negro was kidnapped from the shores of Africa and brought into the Western Hemisphere at
the beginning of the sixteenth century in order to meet the conditions growing out of an acute
labor problem. The greedy and adventurous Spaniard had come to these shores in quest of gold,
and after years of experiment he discovered that the Indian who lived in the islands and on
the coast of the New World, either would not or was not physically able to perform the heavy
labor of extracting gold from the mines. To meet his greedy quest, it was then necessary to
look elsewhere to find the man who was feeble enough in will and strong enough in body to meet
the conditions which then presented themselves. The African was that man. It is not the purpose
of these reflections to deal with the institution of slavery other than to point out that what
slavery is appears altogether from the point of view of the one who discusses it. It is common
nowadays to refer to it as a practical institution by means of which the savage African was
brought under the beneficent influences of Christianity, taught the English language, and the
joy of intelligently directed labor. But before the beginning of the institution as a means
of meeting the needs of work, the moralist considered it as the sum of all villanies, the reformer
termed it the negation of all right. But the economist looks at it as a system of labor, and
the historian and philosopher, as a step in the progress of the human race from the time when
savages were put to death when taken in battle to the time when men realized that they could
eat bread by the sweat of other men's faces.

It is a remarkable concurrence of historical facts that the opening of the Panama Canal will
be precisely the four hundredth anniversary of the introduction of Negro slavery into the Western
Hemisphere. Most of those centuries were passed without any alleviation of the condition of
the chattel slave. The Liberal and Revolutionary movements of the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries brought about the downfall of chattel slavery as a system of labor in the civilized
world. Immediately succeeding the emancipation of the slave from chattelism, slavery reappeared
in a new form. The former slave-holding states enacted a series of so-called "Labor Laws" intended
to apply exclusively to the recently emancipated slaves, which at that time so outraged public
sentiment that the American nation just emerged from the great war, intending to destroy every
vestige of slavery and its incidents, conferred upon the Negro the common and universal legal
rights which pertained to white men throughout the English speaking world. It was evidently
the thought and purpose of the men of that day to cure in the light of the formulas and promises
of their fundamental charters the curse that had been a sore to civilization for years. And
for a time it looked as though they had done so, but of late years there has grown up a series
of laws and court decisions giving distinct recognition to the fact of Race, and in spite of
the constitutional guaranties, differentiating at least in the matter of the enjoyment of rights
as between white men and black men. This paper is concerned merely with those distinctive laws
which relate to labor. 

Courage, younker, beauty, kindness, have many trials, but they always win the action; while enchantress,
giants, unfriendly cruel people, are on the losing hand. How the Dragon was flim-flam the Goblin
and the Grocer the House in the Wood Uraschimataro and the turtle the Slaying of the Tanuki the
flying Trunk the Snow Man. We cannot wholly be old, alas! and pretty, and good; but nothing prevents
us from being kind, and no kind babu, amazon, or beast or bird, ever arrive to anything but strong
in these oldest fables of the world.

So far all
the tales are true, and no further. List the Guy's Elopement. So it
ought to be, and so, on the whole, it is and will be; and that is all
the moral of fairy tales.

Does peonage exist in any part of the United States to-day? The question is answered both in
the affirmative and in the negative. Those who deny the existence of peonage assert that merely
the voluntary or involuntary service or labor of a person in payment of a debt or obligation
is not peonage; that it is not the system of peonage as practiced in Spanish-American countries
and in Mexico; that there is in this country nothing resembling the Spanish or Mexican peonage
system. It is probably true that there are no laws on statute books which resemble the laws
under which peonage is practiced in Mexico, and under which it was practiced in New Mexico
and Arizona before they became parts of the United States. The thirteenth amendment to the
Constitution of the United States forbids such laws, and certain acts of Congress have been
passed which render that amendment effective. It is therefore to be presumed that no State
which desired to establish a system of forced labor would pass a law which, on its face, would
be in violation of the thirteenth amendment, or of the laws of Congress passed in pursuance
of it. The counterfeiter has before him the task of making false money to look as much like
genuine money as possible. The maker of laws violative of fundamental rights has before him
the task of doing the forbidden thing in a way which will as nearly as possible conceal the
fact that it has been done. What peonage is, has been defined by the United States Supreme Court.

Justice Brewer said: "It may be defined as a status or condition of compulsory service based
upon the indebtedness of the peon to the master. The basal fact is indebtedness. One fact exists
universally, all were indebted to their masters. This was the cord by which they seemed bound
to their masters' service." Therefore, wherever we have compulsory service for debt, we have
peonage, it matters not by what method the result is attained. There are to-day in certainly
six states, and probably in ten, in which the institution of slavery formerly existed, laws
which make it possible to compel men to render service against their will, and that too when
they have committed no act which, outside of those States would be held to be a crime in any
English-speaking community.

For convenience, these laws may be classed under at least five heads: Contracts of employment,
enticement of laborers to quit their employers, violation of a contract with a surety by one
convicted of a misdemeanor, the laws of vagrancy, and the laws relating to immigrant agents.

The laws relating to contracts of employment are to be found on the statute books of six States--Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, and South Carolina. These laws are very similar
in their phraseology and in the penalties attached to their violation in all of these States.
The Alabama law, which has recently been declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of
the United States, may serve as an example. It provides, in short, that any person who enters
into a contract in writing to perform any service for another and thereby obtains money or
other personal property from such person with intent to defraud the person, and who leaves
his service without performing the act or refunding the money or goods, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor; or, that any person who in writing makes a contract for the rent of land and
obtains money or personal property from the landlord with intent to deceive him and leaves
without performing the service, refunding the money, or paying for the property, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. The penalty for each of these offenses is a fine not exceeding $300, and
in default of payment, imprisonment for a period of not exceeding one year. This Alabama statute
was later amended, because it was found that there was difficulty in proving the intent. The
statute as amended was to the effect that the failure of any person who enters into such contracts
to perform the service, or to cultivate the land, or refund the money, or pay for the goods,
shall be prima facie evidence of the intent to injure his employer or landlord, or to defraud
him. These contracts are usually entered into under conditions which render it impossible for
the employee to overcome what the statute says shall be prima facie evidence. The Supreme Court
of Alabama has decided that an accused person shall not be allowed to testify as to his uncommunicated
motives, purposes, or intentions, to rebut a statutory presumption. Taking counsel of this
decision employers who make contracts with laborers are cautious that there shall be present
at the time of making the contract only the employer and the employee. When the contract is
made, the employer advances the laborer a sum of money, or goods, or supplies, which become
the consideration for the contract, and the laborer agrees to work for such person for a fixed
period at a certain sum per month or per year. In a case which went through all the courts,
State and Federal, the laborer agreed to work for a year at twelve dollars per month. At the
time of entering into the contract he received fifteen dollars in money, and the employer agreed
to pay him the sum of ten dollars and seventy-five cents per month, thus deducting a dollar
and a quarter each month in payment of the fifteen dollars advanced at the making of the contract.
The employee, after having rendered service for more than a month, left his employer. He was
afterwards indicted and convicted of failing to perform his contract and was sentenced by the
court to pay a fine of thirty dollars and the costs, and in default thereof to hard labor "for
twenty days in lieu of said fine and one hundred and sixteen days on account of said costs."
It can be readily seen that if the laborer in this case had worked eleven months, he would
have owed the employer a dollar and a quarter, and if he had left him might be arrested, indicted,
and convicted and be made to serve at hard labor for at least one hundred and sixteen days,
the cost of prosecuting a case involving the failure to pay one dollar and a quarter being
the same as the cost of a prosecution involving any larger sum. The decision of the Supreme
Court of the United States, rendered January 3, 1911, declares in effect legislation of this
kind to be in violation of the thirteenth amendment to the Constitution. It should be observed,
however, in this connection that when the decision was rendered there were two vacancies in
the court, and that two of the seven members then sitting dissented from the opinion of the
court, Mr. Justice Holmes and Mr. Justice Lurton, Mr. Justice Holmes rendering the dissenting
opinion. In summing up, he said: "That a false representation expressed or implied at the time
of making a contract of labor that one intends to perform it, and thereby obtaining an advance
may be declared a case of fraudulently obtaining money, as well as any other, that if made
a crime it may be punished like any other crime, and that an unjustified departure from the
promised service without repayment may be declared a sufficient cause to go to the jury for
their judgment, all without in any way infringing the thirteenth amendment or the statutes
of the United States." The importance of this dissenting opinion is enhanced by the reflection
that if all the vacancies in the court had been filled at the time there might have been four
concurring in the dissenting opinion rather than two, and even as it is, the opinion being
that of a divided court is a basis for the fear that at some future when the same question
may be presented to the court, constituted differently from what it now is, the constitutionality
of these statutes may be upheld.

Another form in which peonage is practiced is by the passage of acts making it unlawful to
entice laborers to leave their employers or landlords, or to employ persons who have left their
employers without fulfilling their contracts. Such laws are found in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida,
Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. It
will be observed that all of these States are former slave-holding States.

A third law under which peonage is practiced, and which probably is the most fruitful legal
source is to be found in Alabama alone. It provides that when any person who has been convicted
of a misdemeanor, signs a written contract in open court approved by the judge of the court
in consideration of another person becoming his surety on a confession of judgment for the
fine and costs, agrees to perform any service for such person and afterwards fails or refuses
to perform the service, on conviction will be fined not less than the amount of damages which
the party contracting with him has suffered, and not more than five hundred dollars. The statute
provides that these contracts with sureties may be filed for record in the office of the judge
of probate in the county in which the confession of judgment was had. There is an additional
section which provides for similar punishment in the cases of persons convicted of a misdemeanor
or violation of a city ordinance, who makes similar contracts before a recorder or mayor.

The laws of vagrancy are also used as a means of reducing persons to a condition of peonage.
In many of the Southern States the vagrancy laws are exceedingly drastic, and under their enforcement
by the courts almost any person may be convicted as a vagrant, and being unable to pay his
fine or to give surety for his future good conduct may enter into a contract, with one who
does pay his fine or become his surety, to work for him, and if he does not perform the labor
may be prosecuted for violating this contract, and for the second offense may enter into a
contract for additional service for an extended period, and thus the restraint of his liberty
may be almost interminable.

The law relating to immigrant agents makes it necessary to obtain a license in each county
of the State in which the calling is carried on. This license is made so high as to be practically
prohibitive. Carrying on the occupation of immigrant agent without a license is a misdemeanor,
the penalty for which is a fine from five hundred to five thousand dollars, and imprisonment
for a period of not exceeding one year. Laws relating to immigrant agents are found in Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina.

In addition to these, other laws, perfectly proper on their face, are perverted to reduce persons
to a condition of peonage, among which are false pretense or false promise laws, absconding
debtor laws, board-bill laws, and in fact every ordinance, regulation, or statute defining
a misdemeanor or crime. It can readily be seen that if the States may by legislative enactment
define any act to be a crime the thirteenth amendment may become in time a mere nullity.

In a report by Hon. Charles W. Russell, Assistant Attorney General, to the Attorney General,
in 1908, appears this language:

"I have no doubt from my investigations and experiences that the chief support of peonage is
the peculiar system of State laws prevailing in the South, intended evidently to compel services
on the part of the workingman. From the usual condition of the great mass of laboring men where
these laws are enforced, to peonage is but a step at most. In fact, it is difficult to draw
a distinction between the condition of a man who remains in service against his will, because
the State has passed a certain law under which he can be arrested and returned to work, and
the condition of a man on a nearby farm who is actually made to stay at work by arrest and
actual threats of force under the same law. The actual spoken threat of an individual employer
who makes his laborer stay at work against his will by fear of the chain gang, and the threat
of the State to send him to the chain gang whenever his employer chooses to have him arrested,
are the same in result and do not seem to me very different in any other way."

While the principal sources of the practice of peonage are the laws just referred to, yet it
has existed and does exist without law. The condition of the colored man in this country is
practically that of an outlaw. He is scarcely thought of as having rights. He is distinctly
told not to insist upon his rights, but to do his duty; that rights will come as the result
of duty well performed. This is in effect to say the laws, the customs, the institutions, which
protect and defend other men are not to be invoked by the Negro when in his opinion he needs
them. A large group of men who are looked upon after this fashion is at the mercy of any group
of men who enjoy in full vigor all that the institutions and government of their country stand
for. Therefore, it is not unusual to find that, without any law at all, large numbers of laborers
are restrained of their liberty in quarters and in stockades, guarded by men who carry guns
and deadly weapons, and though having been convicted of no wrongdoing, are kept in the condition
of ordinary criminals. The report of the Attorney General for the year 1907 contains a list
of eighty-three complaints of peonage pending in the Department of Justice. These complaints
come from every one of the former slave-holding States, with the exception of Missouri, and
since the publication of this report cases of peonage have been found in that State. In view
of the testimony afforded by the laws on the statute books of the States, the decisions of
the courts, the reports of the Department of Justice, and the testimony of persons whose character
is a warrant of its truthfulness, the practice of peonage is exactly coterminous with that
portion of the territory of the United States in which the institution of chattel slavery formerly
existed. When we consider the historic fact that the public opinion of the States embraced
in this territory has never considered Negroes as having rights which any one is bound to respect,
and that this public opinion has been active in opposing the conferring of all legal rights
upon Negroes, and has never ceased to exert itself to divest them of such rights as have been
given them, it can not be wondered at that, while slavery no longer exists in this country
as a legal institution, it does exist in the opinion, the sentiment, and the practices of the
people. It is difficult to determine how extensive the practice of peonage may be or how many
victims may be held in its prison house. On this point, Assistant Attorney General Russell
says "We have discovered cases of peonage and others have been brought to our attention, we
have examined into many and obtained indictments and convictions, but how many cases are in
existence is the same kind of a question as though the crime were pension fraud, or counterfeiting,
or public land fraud, or fraud on the revenue. Where we have found several cases we may conclude
that there are, or have been, or are likely to be others, but this is speculation. Sometimes
we feel confident that our pounding away for nearly two years has frightened into inactivity
those who were practicing peonage in the same State with the persons convicted and sentenced.
We hear now and then of workmen being turned loose to the right and to the left of us when
prosecutions are going on, but while it would be discouraging to think that we have not thus
reduced the evil to much smaller dimensions, I regret to say that cases are still being discovered
or reported in various directions."

The real foundation of peonage, after all, as it relates to the Negro is the refusal to regard
him as a man having rights as other men have them. So far has wrong, and injustice, and oppression
gone that not only is the Negro outside of the consideration of the law of the land, but practically
outside of the humane and kindly regard of a majority of the white race in the United States.
Not only are laws perverted and given a special twist and interpretation in cases where the
Negro is a party to litigation, but even words in ordinary use lose their accepted meaning
when applied to him. The word "duty," for instance, has not a scintilla of moral significance
in it when used about or spoken to a Negro. It has purely an industrial and economic meaning,
which may be expressed in the injunction, "Servants, obey your masters." The word "kindness,"
which implies one of the noblest traits of human nature, when applied to a Negro means simply
that his treatment shall not be so harsh as to cause people who are yet included in the category
of decent, to wince and protest. The denial of right to the Negro has been progressive in the
past forty years. First, he was denied the right to vote, and we were told if he would only
hold that right in abeyance that he might enjoy other rights in fuller measure. Many, under
a misconception of the facts, accepted this view, but since the denial of the right to vote
other rights have been impaired. The right to education in its broadest and most comprehensive
sense is now practically denied him everywhere, and if not denied the wisdom of his receiving
it is seriously questioned. The right to hold property and live in it wherever he may purchase
it is denied and restricted. And every day these got worse and worse. And Don Giovanni left the inn and
dwelt in the astonishing apartment, where his week and dirt looked sadly out of place. When the
owner of the house to take away his money Gentleman giovanni led him are into the area and
said:'there, most live pocket whatever him want.'the gentleman stared with open mouth at
the sight; but he had given his word to sell the house, and so he take his money, as he was
told, and went away with his wife to look for some place to beautiful
in. The contest for the future must be a constant effort
to educate public opinion to the point where it will concede to the Negro inalienable rights:
The right to vote, the right to an education in all that the term implies, the right to employment
in all occupations, the right to make of himself and of his people and of his neighbors all
that they may become under the most favored conditions. In short, to use the phrase of Kipling,
the ideal sought is, "Leave to live, by no man's leave, underneath the law."

The effect of the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the Bailey case is
to render null and of no effect all of these labor laws which either directly or indirectly
resulted in compulsory slavery. In the Bailey case the Supreme Court held that although the
State statute in terms appeared to punish fraud, the inevitable purpose is to punish for failure
to perform contracts for labor, thus compelling such performances and it violates the thirteenth
amendment to the constitution and is unconstitutional. And again the further principle was
announced that a constitutional prohibition can not be transgressed indirectly by court or
statutory presumption any more than by direct enactment. The Court said: "The Thirteenth Amendment
prohibits the control by coercion of the personal services of one man for the benefit of another
and that the Federal Penal Act is violated by any State resolution which seeks to compel the
services of labor by making it a crime to fail and refuse to perform contract employment!"
This decision rendered by Mr. Justice Hughes and dissented from by Mr. Justice Holmes, an ex-Union
soldier, and Mr. Justice Lurton, an ex-Confederate soldier, goes as far as any decision in
upholding the spirit and intent of the Thirteenth Amendment as any decision ever rendered by
this, the highest Court of the nation. However, this interpretation goes no further than the
moral and physical fact of compelling the service of labor. Slavery and involuntary servitude
according to the construction of the Court consist only in compelling one to work against his
will and does not relate to the thousand and one facts of the human life by which one man might,
though free in theory, be made subservient to another man. For instance, this same Court decided,
in a case brought up from Arkansas where a Negro had, through the conspiracy of a number of
white men been prevented from pursuing his occupation as a lumberman in a lumber district of
that State, that it had no jurisdiction in the premises; that the act involved did not raise
a Federal question; that the Negro was not the ward of the nation but an equal citizen, one
who had accepted the garb of citizenship and discarded the robe of wardship and thereby restricted
himself to pursue the remedies for wrongs inflicted by individuals in State courts although
it was argued to the court that to prevent a man either directly or indirectly from pursuing
a calling or profession was as thoroughly to enslave him as to force him to labor against his will.

The following misprints have been corrected:
  "evdence" corrected to "evidence" (page 7)
  "State" corrected to "States" (page 8)
  "insitution" corrected to "institution" (page 11)

