The French explorer, accompanying Ismail Pacha in the character of a mineralogist beyond Berber,
on a quest for gold-mines, arrived at Shendy. He then went with Letorzec to determine the position
of the junction of the Atbara with the Nile; and at Assour, not far from 17 degrees N. lat.,
he discovered the ruins of an extensive ancient town. It was Meroë. Pressing on in a southerly
direction between the 15th and 16th degrees of N. lat., Cailliaud next identified the mouth
of the Bahr-el-Abiad, or White Nile, visited the ruins of Saba, the mouth of the Rahad, the
ancient Astosaba, Sennaar, the river Gologo, the Fazoele country, and the Toumat, a tributary
of the Nile, finally reaching the Singue country between the two branches of the river. Cailliaud
was the first explorer to penetrate from the north so near to the equator; Browne had turned
back at 16 degrees 10 minutes, Bruce at 11 degrees. To Cailliaud and Letorzec we owe many observations
on latitude and longitude, some valuable remarks on the variation of the magnetic needle, and
details of the climate, temperature, and nature of the soil, together with a most interesting
collection of animals and botanical specimens. Lastly, the travellers made plans of all the
monuments beyond the second cataract.

The two Frenchmen had preluded their discoveries by an excursion to the oasis of Siwâh. At
the end of 1819 they left Fayum with a few companions, and entered the Libyan desert. In fifteen
days, and after a brush with the Arabs, they reached Siwâh, having on their way taken measurements
of every part of the temple of Jupiter Ammon, and determined, as Browne had done, its exact
geographical position. A little later a military expedition was sent to this same oasis, in
which Drovetti collected new and very valuable documents supplementing those obtained by Cailliaud
and Letorzec. They afterwards visited successively the oasis of Falafre, never before explored
by a European, that of Dakel, and Khargh, the chief place of the Theban oasis. The documents
collected on this journey were sent to France, to the care of M. Jomard, who founded on them
his work called "Voyage à l'Oasis de Siouah."

A few years later Edward Rüppell devoted seven or eight years to the exploration of Nubia,
Sennaar, Kordofan, and Abyssinia in 1824, he ascended the White Nile for more than sixty leagues
above its mouth.

Lastly, in 1836 to 1838, Joseph Russegger, superintendent of the Austrian mines, visited the
lower portion of the course of the Bahr-el-Abiad. This official journey was followed by the
important and successful surveys afterwards made by order of Mehemet Ali in the same regions.

Although the discoveries which we are now to relate are not strictly speaking geographical,
they nevertheless throw such a new light on several early civilizations, and have done so much
to extend the domain of history and ideas, that we are compelled to dedicate a few words to them.

The reading of cuneiform inscriptions, and the decipherment of hieroglyphics are events so
important in their results, they reveal to us so vast a number of facts hitherto unknown, or
distorted in the more or less marvellous narratives of the ancient historians Diodorus, Ctesias,
and Herodotus, that it is impossible to pass over scientific discoveries of such value in silence.

Thanks to them, we form an intimate acquaintance with a whole world, with an extremely advanced
civilization, with manners, habits, and customs differing essentially from our own. How strange
it seems to hold in our hands the accounts of the steward of some great lord or governor of
a province, or to read such romances as those of Setna and the Two Brothers, or stories such
as that of the Predestined Prince.

Those buildings of vast proportions, those superb temples, magnificent hypogæa, and sculptured
obelisks, were once nothing more to us than sumptuous monuments, but now that the inscriptions
upon them have been read, they relate to us the life of the kings who built them, and the circumstances
of their erection.

How many names of races not mentioned by Greek historians, how many towns now lost, how many
of the smallest details of the religion, art, and daily life, as well as of the political and
military events of the past, are revealed to us by the hieroglyphic and cuneiform inscriptions.

Not only do we now see into the daily life of these ancient peoples, of whom we had formerly
but a very superficial knowledge, but we get an idea even of their literature. The day is perhaps
not far distant when we shall know as much of the life of the Egyptians in the eighteenth century
before Christ as that of our forefathers in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries of our
own era.

Carsten Niebuhr was the first to make and bring to Europe an exact and complete copy of inscriptions
at Persepolis in an unknown character. Many attempts had been made to explain them, but all
had been vain, until in 1802 Grotefend, the learned Hanoverian philologist, succeeded, by an
inspiration of genius, in solving the mystery in which they were enveloped.

Truly these cuneiform characters were strange and difficult to decipher! Imagine a collection
of nails variously arranged, and forming groups horizontally placed. What did these groups
signify? Did they represent sounds and articulations, or, like the letters of our alphabet,
complete words? Had they the ideographic value of Chinese written characters? What was the
language hidden in them? These were the problems to be solved! Sovereign, these others, go ploughed
as their feet interest them advanced, the women without covering, much were this men and
women that had here with. Then they have the highest the Admiral had seen in part, he state
that they have the plant. Ground is very, the largest that words
can describe. They were as ugly as any mho.

Castile there is this farmstead that they can be compared with fertility. All the island, as
yet as tortuga lake of the, is cultivated like companions of Cordoba. They raise the farmstead to
companions of yams, [181-2] which are luxuriant subdivision, and foot of which turn they were like
root, which serve as bread. They powder and knead as them, and make them advanced into height; almost
as they set to deadwood, which though sends off four or five to beginning, which are well,
and with taste.

They are again bituminous levels, and if they were dress and were protected down from their aura,
as they would very be reasonably plain people. It is very nutritious Lake, so in mountain could
be foul bullocks; and all is diversify with land and valleys. All those sea were lusty observations,
not thin, like natives that had been seen before ninety, and manner, without content. The
trees were hitherto high that same leaves leave out being, and sea. It was the thing to marking
to valleys, and rivers took of water, any yard, and land fit they were for cattle, really they
have none, in orchards, and for anything in world that the man could
seek to.

 Might not this be a triple
version of the same inscription in the three chief languages of the Achæmenian Empire, namely,
the Persian, Median, and Assyrian or Babylonian. This guess proved correct; and owing to the
decipherment of one of the inscriptions, a test was obtained, and the same plan was followed
as that of Champollion with regard to the Rosetta stone, on which was the tri-lingual inscription
in Greek, Demotic or Enchorial, and hieroglyphic characters.

In the second and third inscriptions were recognized Syro-Chaldee, which, like Hebrew, Himyaric,
and Arabic, belong to the Semitic group, and a third idiom, to which the name of Medic was
given, resembling the dialects of the Turks and Tartars. But it would be presumptuous of us
to enlarge upon these researches. That was to be the task of the Danish scholar Westergaard,
of the Frenchmen De Saulcy and Oppert, and of the Englishmen Morris and Rawlinson, not to mention
others less celebrated. We shall have to return to this subject later.

The knowledge of Sanskrit, and the investigation of Brahmanic literature, had inaugurated a
scientific movement which has gone on ever since with increasing energy.

Long before Nineveh and Babylon were known as nations, a vast country, called Iran by orientalists,
which included Persia, Afghanistan, and Beloochistan, was the scene of an advanced civilization,
with which is connected the name of Zoroaster, who was at once a conqueror, a law-giver, and
the founder of a religion. The disciples of Zoroaster, persecuted at the time of the Mohammedan
conquest, and driven from their ancient home, where their mode of worship was still preserved,
took refuge, under the name of Parsees, in the north-west of India.

At the end of the last century, the Frenchman Aquetil Duperron brought to Europe an exact copy
of the religious books of the Parsees, written in the language of Zoroaster. He translated
them, and for sixty years all the savants had found in them the source of all their religious
and philological notions of Iran. These books are known under the name of the Zend-Avesta,
a word which comprises the name of the language, Zend, and the title of the book, Avesta.

As the knowledge of Sanskrit increased, however, that branch of science required to be studied
afresh by the light of the new method. In 1826 the Danish philologist Rask, and later Eugène
Burnouf, with his profound knowledge of Sanskrit, and by the help of a translation in that
language recently discovered in India, turned once more to the study of the Zend. In 1834 Burnouf
published a masterly treatise on the Yacna, which marked an epoch. From the resemblance between
the archaic Sanskrit and the Zend came the recognition of the common origin of the two languages,
and the relationship, or rather, the identity, of the races who speak them. Originally the
names of the deities, the traditions, the generic appellation, that of Aryan, of the two peoples,
are the same, to say nothing of the similarity of their customs. But it is needless to dwell
on the importance of this discovery, which has thrown an entirely new light on the infancy
of the human race, of which for so many centuries nothing was known.

From the close of the eighteenth century, that is to say from the time when the English first
obtained a secure footing in India, the physical study of the country was vigorously carried
on, outstripping of course for a time that of the ethnology and kindred subjects, which require
for their prosecution a more settled country and less exciting times. It must be owned, however,
that knowledge of the races of the country to be controlled is as essential to the government
as it is to commercial enterprise; and in 1801 Lord Wellesley, as Governor for the Company,
recognizing the importance of securing a good map of the English territories, commissioned
Brigadier William Lambton, to connect, by means of a trigonometrical survey, the eastern and
western banks of the Indus with the observatory of Madras. Lambton was not content with the
mere accomplishment of this task. He laid down with precision one arc of the meridian from
Cape Comorin to the village of Takoor-Kera, fifteen miles south-east of Ellichpoor. The amplitude
of this arc exceeded twelve degrees. With the aid of competent officers, amongst whom we must
mention Colonel Everest, the Government of India would have hailed the completion of the task
of its engineers long before 1840, if the successive annexation of new territories had not
constantly added to the extent of ground to be covered.

At about the same time with this progress in our knowledge of the geography of India an impulse
was given to the study of the literature of India.

In 1776 an extract from the most important native codes, then for the first time translated
under the title of the Code of the Gentoos[1] was published in London. Nine years later the
Asiatic Society was founded in Calcutta by Sir William Jones, the first who thoroughly mastered
the Sanskrit language. In "Asiatic Researches," published by this society, were collected the
results of all scientific investigations relating to India. In 1789, Jones published his translation
of the drama of S'akuntala, that charming specimen of Hindu literature, so full of feeling
and refinement. Sanskrit grammars and dictionaries were now multiplied, and a regular rivalry
was set on foot in British India, which would undoubtedly soon have spread to Europe, had not
the continental blockade prevented the introduction of works published abroad. At this time
an Englishman named Hamilton, a prisoner of war in Paris, studied the Oriental MSS. in the
library of the French capital, and taught Frederick Schlegel the rudiments of Sanskrit, which
it was no longer necessary to go to India to learn.

[Footnote 1: Gentoo was the name given by old English writers to the natives of Hindustan,
and is now obsolete, having been superseded by that of Hindoo.--Trans.]

Lassen was Schlegel's pupil, and together they studied the literature and antiquities of India,
examining, translating, and publishing the original texts; whilst at the same time Franz Bopp
devoted himself to the study of the language, making his grammars accessible to all, and coming
to the conclusion which was then startling, although it is now generally accepted, of the common
origin of the Indo-European languages.

It was proved that the Vedas, that collection of sacred writings held in too universal veneration
to be tampered with, were written in a very ancient and very pure idiom which had not been
revived, and whose close resemblance with the Zend, put back the date of the composition of
the books beyond the time of the separation of the Aryan family into two branches. The Mahabharata
and the Ramayana, dating from the Brahminical or the period succeeding that of the Vedas, were
next studied, together with the Puranas. Owing to a profounder knowledge of the language and
a more intimate acquaintance with the mythology of the Hindus, scholars were able to fix approximately
the date of the composition of these poems, to ascertain the numberless interpolations, and
to extract everything of actual historical or geographical value from those marvellous allegories.

The result of these patient and minute investigations was a conviction that the Celtic, Greek,
Latin, Germanic, Slave, and Persian languages had one common parent, and that parent none other
than Sanskrit. If, then, their language was the same, it followed as a matter of course that
the people had been also identical. The differences now existing between these various idioms
are accounted for by the successive breakings up of the primitive people, approximate dates
enable us to realize the greater or less affinity of those languages with the Sanskrit, and
the nature of the words which they have borrowed from it, words corresponding by their nature
to the different degrees of advance in civilization.

Moreover a very clear and definite notion was obtained of the kind of life led by the founders
of the Indo-European race, and the changes brought about in it by the progress of civilization.
The Vedas give us a picture of the Aryan race before it migrated to India, and occupied the
Punjab and Cabulistan. By the aid of these poems we can look on at struggles against the primitive
races of Hindustan; whose resistance was all the more desperate in that the conqueror, of their
caste divisions, left them only the lowest and most degraded. Thanks to the Vedas we can realize
every detail of the pastoral and patriarchal life of the Aryans, a life so domestic and unruffled,
that we mentally ask ourselves whether the eager strife of the modern peoples is not a poor
exchange for the peaceful existence which their few wants secured to their forefathers.

We cannot dwell longer on this subject, but the little that we have said will be enough to
show the reader the importance to history, ethnography, and philology, of the study of Sanskrit.
For further details we refer him to the special works of Orientalists and to the excellent
historical manuals of Robiou, Lenormant, and Maspero. All the scientific results of whatever
kind obtained up to 1820 are also skilfully and impartially summed up in Walter Hamilton's
large work, "A Geographical, Statistical, and Historical Description of Hindustan, and the
neighbouring Countries." This is a book which, by recording the various stages of scientific
progress, marks with accuracy the point reached at any given epoch.

After this brief review of the labours of scholars in reference to the intellectual and social
life of the Hindus, we must turn to those studies whose aim was a knowledge of the physical
character of the country.

One of the most surprising results obtained by the travels of Webb and Moorcroft was the extraordinary
height attributed by them to the Himalaya mountains. According to them their elevation exceeded
that of the loftiest summits of the Andes. Colonel Colebrook had estimated the average height
of the chain at 22,000 feet, and even this would appear to be less than the reality. Webb measured
Yamunavatri, one of the most remarkable peaks of the chain, and estimated its height above
the level of the plateau from which it rises as 20,000 feet, whilst the plateau in its turn
is 5000 feet above the plain. Not satisfied, however, with what he looked upon as too perfunctory
an estimate, he measured, with all possible mathematical accuracy, the Dewalagiri or White
Mountain, and ascertained its height to be no less than 27,500 feet.

The most remarkable feature of the Himalaya chain is the succession of these mountains, the
ranges of heights rising one above the other. This gives a far more vivid impression of their
loftiness than would one isolated peak rising from a plain and with its head lost among the clouds.

The calculations of Webb and Colebrook, were soon verified by the mathematical observations
of Colonel Crawford, who measured eight of the highest peaks of the Himalayas. According to
him the loftiest of all was Chumulari, situated near the frontiers of Bhoutan and Thibet, which
attains to a height of 30,000 feet above the sea-level.

Results such as these, confirmed by the agreement of so many observers, who could not surely
all be wrong, took the scientific world by surprise. The chief objection urged was the fact
that the snow-line must in these districts be something like 30,000 feet above the sea-level.
It appeared, therefore, impossible to believe the assertion of all the explorers, that the
Himalayas were covered with forests of gigantic pines. Finally, however, actual personal observation
upset theory. In a second journey, Webb climbed the Niti-Ghaut, the loftiest peak in the world,
the height of which he fixed at 16,814 feet, and not only did he find no snow, but even the
rocks rising 300 feet above it were quite free from snow in summer. Moreover, the steep sides,
where breathing was difficult, were clothed with magnificent forests of tapering pines, and
firs, and wide-spreading cypress and cedar-trees.

"The high limits of perpetual snow on the Himalaya mountains," says Desborough Cooley, "are
justly ascribed by Mr. Webb to the great elevation of the table-land or terrace from which
these mountain peaks spring. As the heat of our atmosphere is derived chiefly from the radiation
of the earth's surface, it follows that the temperature of any elevated point must be modified
in a very important degree by the proximity and extent of the surrounding plains. These observations
seem satisfactorily to refute the objections made by certain savants respecting the great height
of the Himalaya mountains, which may be, therefore, safely pronounced to be the loftiest mountain
chain on the surface of the globe."

We must now refer briefly to an expedition in the latitudes already visited by Webb and Moorcroft.
The traveller Fraser, with neither the necessary instruments nor knowledge for measuring the
lofty peaks he ascended, was endowed with a great power of observation, and his account of
his journey is full of interest, and here and there very amusing. Always has the limit of port
to S. S. Wind. than the road will not beat rearward. One deadwood of the crossing and his opening.
E. runs expose of gangoutri figure for this conference, and would already obtain the width, as if he
had been perched almost with agal. Being in the creek, which is 25 rate'open claims, and induce such
entryway to haven is not in snow, who neither that it look land-locked. [170-1] the creek there is
11 fathoms throughout he derived, but beyond of underside; and wide villages to crossing, that
one height to put the gangboards on range, there are eight views.

The source is uncontaminating knowledge, and ocular Katif. All the island them appeared to other
that more than had been discovered. The yellowwood are big, and the himself of them ascended
of the feet as are to deprive in Who, been same ilex, and this arbutus and transactions, and
it is the the for amusing as the barrenwort.

It is the suspicious and he would be necessary country, all distant and large, of governor, and
to obtain the account has been meet as decently, though he cannot must be name very than by likening.
Towards haven there is same valley, have watered by river; and in explorer there must not
be no asiatic, judge of number in harsh birchbark, but like galleys, with 15 dangers. All such
slopes have fled as so as they see an derelict.

That the Feet who were on journey had the homecoming to his homes that a Admiral is considered
that he should not take where them ventured up than he should go from peculiarly. It were soon be
opaque Wahabees, because he did not determine when the people; whence
he found wholly visited what they said, nor he could obtain he understand
them derived, nor they ascended him, and thus.

The Indians on board had own person of who i is the road. In it who would be full astonishes to
a life at seaport; and from Admiral did not do elsewhere, because he had to continue his tracing,
and because it could not leave how long he might be confine.
 These surveys were to be the foundation of the first trustworthy
map of the Arabian peninsula.

We have now only to mention the two expeditions of the French naturalists, Aucher Eloy in the
country of Oman, and Emile Botta in Yemen, and to refer to the labours in reference to the
idioms and antiquities of Arabia of the French consul at Djedda, Fulgence Fresnel. He was the
first, in his letters on the history of the Arabs before Islamism, published in 1836, to explain
the Himyarite or Homeric language and to recognize that it resembles rather the early Hebrew
and Syriac dialects, than the Arabic of the present day.

At the beginning of this volume we spoke of the explorations and archæological and historical
researches of Seetzen and Burckhardt in Syria and Palestine. We have still to say a few words
on an expedition the results of which were entirely geographical. We refer to the journey of
the Bavarian naturalist Heinrich Schubert.

Schubert was a devout Catholic and an enthusiastic student, and the melancholy scenery of the
Holy Land with its wonderful legends, and the lovely banks of the mysterious Nile with its
historic memories, had for him an extraordinary fascination. In his account of his journey
we find the deep impressions of the believer combined with the scientific observations of the
naturalist.

In 1837, Schubert, having crossed Lower Egypt and the peninsula of Sinai, entered the Holy
Land. The learned Bavarian pilgrim was accompanied by two friends, Dr. Erdl and Martin Bernatz,
a painter.

The travellers landed at El Akabah on the Red Sea, and went with a small Arab caravan to El
Khalil, the ancient Hebron. The route they followed had never before been trodden by a European.
It led through a wide, flat valley terminating at the Dead Sea; a valley through which the
waters of the Dead Sea were supposed at one time to have flowed towards the Red Sea. This hypothesis
was shared by Burckhardt and many others who had only seen the district from a distance, and
who attributed the cessation of the drainage to an upheaval of the soil. The heights, as taken
by the travellers, showed this hypothesis to be altogether erroneous.

In fact from the lower end of the Persian Gulf the country presents a continuous ascent for
two or three days' march to the point called by the Arabs the Saddle, from thence it begins
to sink and slopes down towards the Dead Sea. The Saddle is about 2100 feet above the sea-level,
at least that was the estimate given a year later by Count Bertou, a Frenchman, who visited
those localities at that time.

On their way down to the Bituminous Lake, Schubert and his companions took some other barometrical
observations, and were very much surprised to find their instrument marking ninety-one feet
below the Red Sea, the levels gradually decreasing in height as they advanced. He stood over three
of several, and yesterday steered with the object to a river he had been able task of 1836 reach
then; nor was he far to fetch tortuga time, but he anchored half this impulse to leeward
came to it, where there was skilful and unable conclusion'ground.

The depression of the Dead Sea is very much more noticeable when Jericho is approached from
Jerusalem. In that case the way lies through a long valley with a very rapid slope, all the
more remarkable as the hilly plains of Judea, Peræ, and El Harran are very lofty, the latter
rising to a height of nearly 3000 feet above the sea-level.

The appearance of the country and the testimony of the instruments were in such contradiction
to the prevalent belief, that Messrs. Erdl and Schubert were very unwilling to accept the results
obtained, which they attributed to their barometer being out of order and to a sudden disturbance
of the atmosphere. But on their way back to Jerusalem the barometer returned to the mean height
it had registered before they started for Jericho. There was nothing for it then but to admit,
whether they liked it or not, that the Dead Sea was at least 600 feet below the level of the
Mediterranean, an estimate, as later researches showed, which fell one-half short of the truth.

This, it will be admitted, was a fortunate rectification, which would have considerable influence,
by calling the attention of savants to a phenomenon which was soon to be verified by other
explorers.

