Like a true religionist, Shelley tells us that aspirations to "Madre Natura," like the following,
should be poured out in silent, grateful communion with Omnipresence, and not in temples made
by hands:

        Spirit of Nature! here!
    Imperishable as this scene,
    Here is thy fitting temple.

From such a soul-inspiring altar should praises like these be raised, and with what sacred
feeling would the pure worshipper revel "where spirits live and dream--where all that is sweet
in sound, or pure in vision floats on the air, or passes dimly before the sight," for as the
late Professor J.G. Hoyt, in his essay on Shelley beautifully points out--"To him everything
was God, and God was everything. Every place was peopled with forms of beauty and animated
with living intelligences. Hills and valleys, forests and fountains, were each thronged with
presiding deities--bright effluences from the Diving that stirred within, and shone above the
whole."

In leaving the first portion of my paper, I will make the following quotation from a remarkable
article on Shelley in the pages of the National Magazine, which all minds unshackled, and free
from prejudice, must acknowledge to be correct in the main, and which admirably sums up his
efforts in metaphysical philosophy. Our attention is called to the fact that we discover in
all Shelley's writings "a freer and purer development of what is best and noblest in ourselves.
We are taught in it to love all living and lifeless things, with which in the material and
moral universe we are surrounded--we are taught to love the wisdom and goodness and majesty
of the Almighty, for we are taught to love the universe, his symbol and visible exponent. God
has given two books for the study and instruction of mankind; the book of revelation and the
book of nature. In one at least of these was Shelley deeply versed, and in this one he has
given admirable lessons to his fellow-men. Throughout his writings, every thought and every
feeling is subdued and chastened by a spirit of unutterable and boundless love. The poet meets
us on the common ground of a disinterested humanity, and he teaches us to hold an earnest faith
in the worth and the intrinsic Godliness of the soul. He tells us--he makes us feel that there
is nothing higher than human hope, nothing deeper than the human heart; he exhorts us to labor
devotedly in the great and good work of the advancement of human virtue and happiness, and
stimulates us

    "To love and hear--to hope till hope creates
    From its own wreck the thing it contemplates."

The vast impetus, which these extraordinary geniuses gave to freedom in metaphysical strongholds,
led to a corresponding degree of liberty in the political and social relations.

Shelley was not one who

                          "beheld the woe
    In which mankind was bound, and deem'd that fate
    Which made them abject, would preserve them so."

but on the contrary was aware of the progressive character of the race, and threw himself with
all his heart and soul into the cause of Republicanism, and never slackened in his efforts
till death took him from his work. Their costumes, old and frayed, were of good cut, were noticed
in his person the traces of a more prosperous. In his hands was as fine I remember an old
familiar ring, saved from the constraints of poverty.

The Curious Maltrana knew something of his life. Juan Castillo was an agronomist who had tried panllevar
on inherited land from their parents doing all the advances learned in a large school of Belgium
poet dreams of setting made with the momentum of a will enthusiastic and credulous. Usury had
provided a small capital for company, and after several years struggling with the routine of
the peasants, to accustom live in peace with the machines and remove the veins deep underground
liquid to scatter in irrigation networks, when the earth began to respond to these efforts with
its first products, the creditors had fallen on him, running with glacial ferocity.

- I know the procedure - had said Maltrana to hear first -. Is the same cannibal tribes. They
gave you food, they left undisturbed for to cast cavities, and when it was ready, bam! the slaughter
and cannibal feast.

Fleeing the destruction, loss of inheritance from their parents, lost credit, debt dishonored to
giving its creditors a criminal nature, all for wanting to innovate under their studies a stationary
agriculture almost equal to that of the early days of mankind. And in his flight had looked
to the south, and all who sailed in that steel shell, sensing ocean beyond the circle a land renewed
daily stock refurbished, where lives are shattered as well as contracted virginal buds to start
a new course of evolution. Hope also had grazed his flapping illusory. Most celebrated this
ruin that had uprooted from the fatherland. Who knew what was coming across the ocean? ...

Morenito leaving the group, moved toward the bow Maltrana and Castillo. A plaintive voice made them
stop.

- Don Isidro! ... Good afternoon, Don Isidro and the company!

A man sitting on the floor, leaning against the railing, his face
pale advanced the folds of a blanket.

- Is that you, sick? - Said
Maltrana -.

How's the mood?

With sorrowful voice murmured a complaint against endless sea. Since its entry into the vessel,
health seemed to have fled his body.

Others sang at all hours, as if the salty air and the vast blue should give them new strength,
excite your appetite. He had embarked feeling strong, and suddenly all his energy leaving
him.

- I am very ill, Don Isidro. Yesterday I could still only cover up and today have had some friends
push me upstairs. I must be white as a sheet, do you, sir ... I have no strength to walk, or desire
to eat. This is not going ... Others complain of heat; say that more and more bites the sun,
and I tremble if I remove the blanket ... And what gives me more
Rabies is that the medical officer Carmelo and others look at me as
if they had been deceived, and say that if they know this board will
not let me because back in Buenos Aires do not want sick ... But sir,
if I embarked healthy and good!, If this wretched sea that I test!

...

Believing Maltrana see the same gesture of doubt the employees of the ship, he hastened to add:

-
I have been an oak, Don Isidro. Rheumatism just as the doctor said my people from sleeping
in the open field many nights. But out of this ... nothing. I swear my name: Pachín Muiños.
And now, suddenly, I am actually a rag, and I drown, sir, legs can not have me and I lack the
strength to go from one corner to another. What I have wanted out
of here!

... I'm sure I'll just jump to another land, feel again strong as in my town ... Say, sir, when
we arrived in Buenos Aires?

Eagerly asked the question, was incorporated to look beyond the gunwale.

To spread their seen by the immensity, expect to find on the horizon
the black profile of the coveted land.

- Take two days? - He asked.

-
Plus, a little more - Maltrana said softly to deceive his impatience.

-
How many more? - Continued tenaciously ill.

And guess Maltrana evasive
words were still many days of travel, Muiños poor relapsed into despair
... Buenos Aires!

Wanted to get as soon as possible at the end of the trip, and repeated the name of the city,
like I found in him a miraculous power equal to the ancient cabalistic words.

Isidro after console with misleading statements, ensuring that within
a week would land slippage back to Castillo to the departure gate.

-
Hope! - Said sadly -.

The poor are very sick, it lacks the strength to be feet, and moves, however, from one hemisphere
to another in search of health and money. What of dreams are in the
shell with all of us!

...

- And if he were alone - said Castillo -.

But he accompanied his wife and three children.

The illusion of health had been uprooted from their village. Back in Galicia could not work
a full week without the effort would attract the disease. The image of America had gone through
his misery like a glow of hope. In the land of fortune where everyone is transformed, he would
another man. And spare a few months of rest and slack, because of having sold their huts and
cows, Muiños entered the ship with a deceptive appearance of healthy man. The atmosphere of the
sea and life on board had been fatal for him every day after marking
a decline of his health.

- What he thinks rheumatism - Castillo said
- is, as a ship's doctor, a failure heart, which begins to unravel
with alarming bronchitis.

To know what you stop! The wife and children, accustomed to their illness, do not look at him.
She gossip with other women, and boys play or eagerly await the time of the ranch. Y Muiños
poor when drowning in the steerage, the deck wrapped up in his coat to lie in the sun, and asked
how many days left to get where we are still at the beginning Travel ... Needless to say the
truth. His dream, which has been concentrated in Buenos Aires, we to forget the time and distance.
Cree deceive you when you say that there are still many days. When asked excitedly Tenerife spot
if we were in Buenos Aires. Morning, see from afar the islands of Cape Verde, will believe that
we have ... Unhappy! All that we are on the ship is the most thought in Buenos Aires, and it could
happen that would the only one who came to see him.

Maltrana Castillo said goodbye at the gate dividing class inviolable border States that started
in two different floating microcosm.

Up on the promenade deck, Fernando found next to one of the living room windows that gave birth
to the inner shelf occupied by the piano.

Isidro wanted to talk, but his friend put his finger to his lips imposing silence. Miró then out
the window and saw a woman sitting at the piano.

Reached his ears at the same time muted music and the whisper of a singing softly.

- It's Tristan - Ojeda softly whispered in his ear -. The desperate cry of Iseo.

The two remained silent on both sides of the window, listening to the songs coming with distances
inside a dream. Maltrana less sensitive to musical emotion, examined back to this woman, watch
your neck white as ivory slightly sombrecida old. The helmet of hair near the roots had a golden tender,
who was coloring it to take on the reddish surface of copper fregoteado.

His neck was leaning front with a slender anemic, a fragility that marked the tendons under
the skin and arteries dilated by the faint emission of the voice.

Suddenly, his face became invisible to them, as if she had noticed his presence. Saw some eyes
whose pupils were dilated ash color by surprise face of pale green,
somewhat emaciated, which instantly colored blush access.

She looked frightened that someone might listen. With a gesture of shyness and contrariness
closed the instrument, stood up and walked to the door of the room to escape the two bothersome.

Ojeda
followed with his eyes. She was tall, thin and sickly was masked in part tough at the skeleton.
Marked his bony hips firmly under a clear lack of denim. The funny hair piled with neglect, little
white shoes worn, modest blouse homemade, total lack of jewelry,
gave her figure an aspect of poverty of cheerfully, uncertainty borne
with resignation bohemia.

- You know that everybody here - asked
Ojeda -: Who is it?

- For some time now would you know if I was allowed
to speak ... Is the wife of director Orchestra operetta company: a
pimply-faced blonde, who spends day and night bocks taking coffee
with their troop.

Good strainer, there are times that felt rounds pile on the table
as a column ... And when they drink beer, whiskey or whatever supports
fall.

No other occupation in the vessel tipple.

- It's an interesting woman - muttered Ojeda -. And so shy! ...

Waited all afternoon to the salon has been deserted.

Families descended to their cabins nap; other passengers were sleeping
in chairs along the promenade, only remained some in the winter garden.

Then, almost on tiptoe, went to the piano, and just put your fingers on the keyboard, seemed to forget
her shyness, isolation from outside world lazy eye and no light, as if his gaze focused inward and her
singing was a weak escape, a far cry from memories of other music that sounded in it.

To see Fernando in the piano, had been curious about his music. Perhaps a sweet and sentimental
romance of operetta!

... And yet he lasted the surprise I had experienced to hear the great words of pain Iseo.

-
Must have a great voice, do not you think so, Isidro? ... Let me be your friend ... You must know.

Maltrana
apologized, somewhat disappointed that at this time not possible
to boast a friend.

He had hardly noticed her: SHP! Women of that drunken director orchestra! ... Was somewhat surly,
people fleeing, only it was with the other ladies company.

He lived for his son, a toddler with a huge head, always clinging to his hand. A Greetings
Maltrana always answered with a nod and a manifest desire to flee. Moreover, as women are not
worth much: it looked sick. The first time you set it was by the jeers of a few girls elegant
greenish pallor commented: "There is that of the operetta. He has ruptured gall and has stirred
the whole body. "

- But it does not matter, Ojeda, because the lady was interested in what Wagner singing, I
introduce it. Know something husband, we drank together.

He called Hans ... Hans Eichelberger, that is, the teacher Hans. And she ... you wait, her
name is Mina. Now remember that husband called that, and he told me, is a diminutive of Wilhelmina. The
teacher speaks some Spanish: has gone by Argentina and Chile in other musical forays. I think
it very little.

The two friends moved to the stern, stopping at the railing near the
coffee on the cover third class.

Sailors had raised a part of the awning and looked below the boiling of the northern migration,
hairy people who despite the heat retained their fur coats. Sounded the twang of an accordion
with the hurried pace of the dance Russian. A girl with short skirt, boots and green scarf polonaises,
on whose tip peeked a lock of red hair, was spinning to the beat of the music. Around her,
a tall boy purple shirt danced on his knees or held in balance with the legs portentous nearly
horizontal and the buttocks near the ground. The shouting and clapping from the other Russian
accompanied these crazy dance agility of gymnastics. Polish Jews and galitzianos, wrapped greatcoat
in their priestly character, watched the show scratching their beards lingering, contracting
the thickets of eyebrows almost joined.

- The people who come here! - Said Fernando - And to think that is
the name of an unknown city the vague prestige of a distant land that
brought us together diverse people from birth!

...

- Twenty-eight people, according to Carmelo the police station, we have been on the vessel and
same applies to other ocean liners. Is not it true, Ojeda, this seems to progress in mass of
the peoples of Europe when the Crusaders? ... Recently, I remembered me down, the crowds who
followed Peter the Hermit. Marched sick, faint from hunger, and every time I sighted a small town
burst into shouts of joy: "Jerusalem! It Jerusalem! ". And they were still at the center of Europe:
in Germany or Hungary. Down in the bow, you have an heir of the heroes of hope. Seriously ill will,
it is possible from reaching the end of the journey, and every time we see an island, a coast,
is galvanized and asked if Buenos Aires.

- Humanity is illusion, Maltrana. We need to put our hope away, on land unknown, as the distance
removes doubt and gives certainty to the most inverisímil. For Europeans, the wonderland was Baghdad
of the Arabian Nights and a night, whereas in my travels the East, I have seen Jews and Muslims
assume treasures and ancient magic in Toledo. When the poets of the South imagine something
wonderful, place the stage on the strengths of Rhine or the Scandinavian fjords. At Dream Castle
Monsalvat Wagner puts mansion the Holy Grail in the Spanish Pyrenees and gives a Moorish palace
in the charming Klingsor. The our environment is too real for us to grow in our dreams.

- Yes, Fernando. But human hope, that in the past was purely mystical and That might look to the
East, is now positive, pins its hopes on the material welfare and heads to the West. We all
want to be rich, we need to be, and this hope communicated to distant lands prestige of illusion.
Centuries ago, people push went to Peru, yesterday dreamed of humanity with the treasures
of California, and there were at mass men's adventure today begins to mingle with the grandeur
of the United States radiation arising from a new city-hope: Buenos Aires.
 In the late repeal movement, the young Ireland party,
the Fenian organization, and the present Home Rule agitation, we find, as Shelley wished, Catholic
and Protestant working arm in arm, their colors being an admixture of orange and green--a healthy
sign.

Those who dislike this noble people--for the name is legion of those who are fond of shouting
"No Irish need apply"--I would recommend to think calmly over Irish history, to remember the
frightful outrages put upon this generous, warm-hearted, and impulsive race for centuries,
and read up Froude, Mitchell, Goldwin-Smith, McGee, Moran, and other Irish historians.

We know what the Irish are capable of, and that in Ireland, as here, after a generation or
two of education, the old theological belief becomes by a gradual process less and less strong.

On September 6th, 1819, a red letter day was added to the English calendar, through the slaughter
by cavalry of a number of unarmed men, who were agitating, peaceably, for the rights of labor.
This is known to posterity as the "Peterloo Massacre," and happened in Manchester, on the site
of the present superb Free Trade Hall, erected by the Free Traders to commemorate the ultimate
triumph of their cause over the capitalists, who, in the manufacturing districts, were, until
a few years back, always aided by the military in putting down strikes or demands for increase
of wages.

                      II.

                     III.

    Wherefore, bees of England, forge
    Many a weapon, chain, and scourge,
    That these stingless drones may spoil
    The forced produce of your toil?

                      IV.

                     VII.

                    VIII.

By far the finest composition brought out by this occasion was the "Masque of Anarchy," a magnificent
poem of ninety-one verses. "Anarchy" he describes as riding "on a white horse,"[E] in alliance
with theology and statecraft, and whose admirers were "lawyers and priests."

[Footnote E: This doubtless alludes to the House of Hanover, the principal charge on whose
armorial bearings is a white horse.]

After a series of powerful delineations, he describes slavery and freedom, justice, wisdom,
peace and love, in exquisite terms. Then he turns to their lamps--science, poetry, and thought,
which make secure "the lot of the dwellers in the cot."

He advises--That, on some spot of English ground, should be convened a great assembly of the
fearless and the free, who shall come from the bounds of the English coast, and from every
hut, village, and town, where, for other's misery and their own, they live, suffer, and moan. I say to both that may occur to some economists As with certain
philologists who study a language, say, Chinese or Arabic, so by principles, such recondidez
grammar and so deeply, then no one understands, nor do they understand each other, or fail to understand
the true Chinese and Arabs by birth, declaim against them, claiming that they are ignorant of the
literary dialect or speech Mandarin, and do not know their own language, but in a vernacular,
routine and all unintelligible to scholars, but the truth is that rather than lament, perhaps
therefore not serve to dragomans.

Perhaps this explains the way, when I went traveling in a wild country, I was right to explain
what it was that a friend of mine, great engineer, who insisted on guiding us with their science
does not hit ever, and we almost did not sink and buried in muddy puddles or we lost in dark
woods, where we had eaten the wolves. I was always with the heart in her mouth, but not for
a moment doubted the science. What I argued was that this land was so rough yet, not understood
the science and revealed against it. Then returned to trust the leadership of our trip to the practical
guide and lay it before we had served and we, the term that we proposed.

Could happen, finally, consisting of political economy, if I remember correctly, several parties,
such as: the creation of wealth, its circulation, its distribution and consumption, we thoroughly
studied over here last party, and have rather neglected the study of First, regarding it as
impossible to learn anything, and saying humble and Christian with the poet:

    It's raising a job That
    only God knows With its
    infinite power.

I live so sure of this truth, I never wanted engulfed in the mare-magnum of Political Economy,
having for so complicated this whole machinery of society, which even remotely have fallen
into the temptation to find out what are the springs that move and what the basis on which it is
based. I've always been afraid to come to events the economist as a child that moved from curiosity,
toy breaks to see what has inside. My purpose in writing this obrilla is not, therefore, devise
economically about money: give lessons on the most readily available. Who knows, since So I
find out if, despite my unblemished philanthropy, I had to keep silence, at least for a few
years, profiting from it for my private use and the occasional another very beloved friend?
My purpose is only to talk about the influence that money exerts souls: that is, I do not
treat here of Political Economy, but of moral philosophy, exposing some philosophical thoughts about
money, sometimes born of my own meditation, prayer of the deep mind of the ancient and modern
scholars I have consulted.

On the statute book of England there yet remains a law directed against the freedom of the
press and discussion; to even discuss the question of the divinity of Christ was considered
blasphemy, and the person so offending was punished most severely by the criminal laws. At
the present time this wretched remnant of the dark ages is practically a dead letter. The friends
of Shelley suffered from this most intolerant spirit. If Fernando wanted, there was still time. He kept it in a bag yet the right
hand of your money, alhajillas, everything of any value that could be used for escape. He had
only ordered to cast their luggage to the ground: It willingly abandon Nelida yours. I was
easy to slip in the confusion of the landing.

Ojeda, instead of answering yes, he seemed to pity her, with the same compassion that if a patient.
Ah, crazy head! ... Pretty had spoken the night before to make her understand the absurdity
of the proposal. Then he had gone head down, without invite you to follow her to her cabin and
showing no desire to go to him, with obvious bad humor, but apparently
convinced. Shelley, who was then only
nineteen years of age, and had himself suffered from bigotry at Oxford, threw himself publicly
into the controversy with great vehemence, with "a composition of great eloquence and logical
exactness of reasoning, and the truths which it contains on the subject of universal toleration
are now generally admitted." 

Would dissolve the entire world. His story did not quite last a month, but alive so intense! ...
The separation gave greater prominence to the memories. People who had watched at the beginning
of the voyage with obvious hostility lamented separation. Against a pretext so inveterate do not know what remedy may be. The art of producing gold, Crisopeya
has been completely lost, and we have no more art or science that put our hope, to see if we removed
the hook, that political economy. God put in touch hands
of those who know and apply it to the management of state affairs. And not I hesitate to say
that because of science. How can one doubt, when science is, was and always will my love, though
unhappy?

