"Abe wouldn't hear a word of it, not from anybody--and he could talk back awful rough.  He
was sure he could make the trip alone.  He was the strongest man in the mountains.  I never
saw the day I could handle Abe Hawk.  But the pass in December was not a job for any ordinary
mountain man--let alone a bunch of greenhorns.  Just the same, I made my play to go with him.
He cursed me as hard as he did anybody and turned me down.

"One night, after that, I was at Tenison's again.  I was losing money. Hawk was near me.  He
saw it.  I waited for him to come out.  I knew he'd be starting soon and I was desperate. 
I tackled him pretty strong.  He swore if I talked again about going with him he'd kill me.
Old Bill Bradley ran the livery.  My horse was in the same barn with Abe's and Bill promised
to tip me off when Abe was ready to start.  He waited for a blizzard.  When it passed he was
ready.  But I got ahead of him, out of town, and trailed him--I knew how.  Only it snowed again,
as if all hell was against me; I had to close up on Abe or lose him, but he never saw me till
we got so far I couldn't get back; though he could have dropped me out of the saddle with a
bullet, and had the right to do it.

"When I rode up he only looked at me.  If I had been as small as I felt, he'd never seen me.
He ought to have abused me; but he didn't. He ought to have shot me; but he didn't; or turned
me back and that would have been worse than shooting.  But if he'd been my own father he couldn't
have acted different.  He just told me to come along."

Laramie paused.  He was speaking under a strain: "I didn't understand it then; but he knew
it was too late to quarrel.  He knew there was about one chance in a hundred for him to get
through; for me, there was about one in a hundred thousand--in fact, he knew I couldn't get
through, so he didn't abuse me.

"You don't know what the winter snow on the pass is.  When it got too bad for us, he put his
horse ahead to break the trail, but he let me ride mine as far as I could--he knew what was
coming.  When my horse quit, he told me to tramp along behind him.

"I guess you know about how long a boy's wind would last ten thousand feet up in the air. 
I wasn't used to it.  I quit."

Laramie drew from his pocket a handkerchief and knotted it nervously in his fingers: "He told
me to get up," he went on.  "I did my level best a way farther.  It was no use.  I quit again.
He was easy with me. But I couldn't get up and I told him to go on.

"Abe wouldn't go.  I couldn't walk another step in that wind and snow to save my soul from
perdition.  I just couldn't.  And when I tell you next what I asked of him, then you'll understand
how mean a common tramp like me can be.  But I've got past pretty much caring what you think
of me--only I want you to know what I think, and thought, of Abe Hawk.  I did the meanest thing
then I ever did in my life--I asked him to let me ride his horse.  It was useless.  I offered
him all the money I had.  He refused.  He didn't just look at me and move on, the way most
men would to save their own skins and leave me to what I deserved.  He stopped and explained
that if his horse gave out we were done--we could never break a trail to the top without the horse.

"It was blowing.  He stripped his horse.  The mail went into the snow. I tried again to walk.
I didn't get a hundred feet.  When I fell down that time he saw it was my finish.

"He stood a minute in front of me, looking all around before he spoke. His horse was breathing
pretty heavy; the snow blowing pretty bad. After a while he loosened the quirt from his saddle
and looked at me: 'Damn you,' he said, 'you were bound to come.  All hell couldn't keep you
back, could it?  Now it's come in earnest for you.  You're goin' over the pass with me.  Get
up out of that snow.'

"I could hear him, but I couldn't move hand or foot.  And I never dreamed what was going to
happen till he laid the quirt across my face like a knife.

"All I ever hoped for was to get up so I could live long enough to kill him.  He gave me that
quirt till I was insane with rage; long afterward he told me my eyes turned green.  I cursed
him.  He asked me whether I'd get up.  I knew, if I didn't, I'd have to take more.  I dragged
myself out of the snow again and pitched and struggled after him--to the top of the pass.

"Then he put me on his pony--we got the wind worse up there.  Abe had a little shack a way
down the pass, rigged up for storm trouble.  But the pony quit before we got to the shack,
and when the pony fell down, my hands and feet were no use.  Abe carried and dragged and rolled
me down into the shack.  I was asleep.  There was always a fire left laid in the stove.  Abe
had a hard time to light it.  But he got it lighted and when he fell down he laid both hands
on the stove--so when they began to burn it would wake him up; if the fire didn't burn he didn't
want to wake up.  The marks of that fire are on his hands right in that room there now, tonight.
He saved my hands and feet.  He stayed with me while I was crazy and got me safe to Horsehead.

"Do you suppose I could ever live long enough to turn that man, wounded, over to an enemy?
He didn't ask me for any shelter after Van Horn's raid.  All he ever asked me for was cartridges--and
he got 'em. He'd get anything I had, and all I had, as long as there was a breath left in my
body, and he asked within reason.  And Abe Hawk wouldn't ask anything more."

Kate rose from her chair: "I've a great deal to learn about people and things in this country,"
she said slowly.  "Not all pleasant things," she added.  "I suppose some unpleasant things
have to be.  Anyway, I'll ride home tonight better satisfied for coming in."

"You going home?" he asked.

She was moving toward the door: "I only hope," she exclaimed, "this fighting is over."

"That doesn't rest in my hands.  It's no fun for me.  You say you're going to ride home?"

"There's a moon.  I shan't get lost again."

He was loath to let her get away.  At the door he asked if he couldn't ride a way with her.
"I'll get Lefever or Sawdy to stay here while I'm gone," he urged.

"No, no."

"It isn't that they don't want to," he explained.  "But the boys felt kind of bad and went
down to the Mountain House.  Why not?"

She regarded him gravely: "One reason is, I'd never get rid of you till I got home."

"I'll cross my heart."

"We might meet somebody.  I don't want any more explosions.  Let's talk about something else."

He asked to go with her to the barn to get her horse.  The simplicity of his urging was hard
to resist.  "I must tell you something," she said at last.  "If you go with me to the barn
we should be seen together."

"And you're ashamed of me?"

"I said I must tell you something," she repeated with emphasis.  "Will you give me a chance?"

"Go to it."

She looked at him frankly: "I don't always have the easiest time in the world at home.  And
there is always somebody around a big ranch to bring stories to father about whom I'm seen
with.  Everybody in town talks--except Belle.  I must just do the best I can till things get
better."

"Here's hoping that'll be soon."

"Good-by!"

"Safe journey."

CHAPTER XXX

THE FUNERAL--AND AFTER

The funeral had been set for the following afternoon, but preparations were going forward all
morning.  In spite of the brief notice that had got abroad of Hawk's death, men from many directions
were riding into town that morning to help bury him.  A reaction of sentiment concerning the
Falling Wall raid was making itself felt; its brutal ferocity was being more openly criticized
and less covertly denounced.  Hawk's personal popularity had never suffered among the cowboys
and the cowboy following.  He had been known far and wide for open-handed generosity and blunt
truthfulness--and these were traits to silence or to soften reprobation of his fitful and reckless
disregard for the property rights of the big companies.  He was a freebooter with most of the
virtues and vices of his kind.  But the crowd that morning in Sleepy Cat was assembling to
pay tribute to the man--however far gone wrong. His virtues they were, no doubt, willing to
bury with him; the memory of his vices would serve some of them when they might need a lawless
precedent.

Up to the funeral hour the numerous bars of Sleepy Cat were points of interest for the drinking
men.  In front of these, reminiscences of the dead man held heated sway.  Some stories pulled
themselves together through the stimulus of deep drinking, others gradually went to pieces
under its bewildering effects, but as long as a man could remember that he was talking about
Abe Hawk or the Falling Wall, his anecdotes were tolerated.

Nor were all the men that had come to town to say good-by to Abe, lined up at the bars.  Because
Tenison had insisted that it should, Hawk's body lay during the morning at the Mountain House
in the first big sample room opening off the hotel office.  All that the red-faced undertaker
could do to make it presentable in its surroundings had been done at Harry Tenison's charge.
Laramie's protests were ignored: "You're a poor man, Jim," declared Tenison, "and you can't
pay any bills now for Abe.  He thought more of you than he did of any man in the world.  But
most of his money he left here with me, upstairs and down.  Abe was stiff-necked as hell, whether
it was cards or cattle, you know that.  And it's only some of his money--not mine--I'm turning
back to him.  That Dutchman," he added, referring with a contemptuous oath to the unpopular
undertaker of Sleepy Cat, "is a robber, anyhow. The only way I'll ever get even with him is
that he'll drink most of it up again.  I played pinochle with that bar-sinister chap," continued
Tenison, referring to the enemy by the short and ugly word, "all one night, and couldn't get
ten cents out of him--and he half-drunk at that.  What do you know about that?

"Jim," Tenison changed his tone and his rambling talk suddenly ceased, "you've not told me
rightly yet about Abe."

Laramie looked up: "Why, Harry," he said quietly, "I told you where I found him that night--he
got out of the creek at Pride's Crossing."

Tenison shook his head: "But what I want to know is what went on before he got to Pride's Crossing."

"Well, I started with him that night for town."

"That's what you said before," objected Tenison with an impatient gesture.  "What you didn't
say is what I want to hear."

"Harry, I won't try to give you a long line of talk.  I can't tell it all--and I don't want
to try to fool you.  There's another name in the story that I don't feel I've got a right to
bring in--that's all.  Some day you'll hear it."

Neither Lefever nor Sawdy could get any more out of Laramie.  He showed the strain of sleeplessness
and anxiety.  Sawdy kept the crowd away by answering all questions himself--mostly with an
air of reserve, backed by intimations calculated to lead a man to believe he was really hearing
something, and counter-questions skilfully dropped into the gravity of the occasion.  Those
who could not be put off by Sawdy were turned over to Lefever, who could hypnotize a man by
asking questions, and send him away satisfied, but vacantly speculative as to whether he was
crazy or Lefever was.

To Lefever also were referred the men arranging the details of the funeral.  Not till two o'clock
was the word given for the procession to move from the Mountain House, but for two hours before
that, horsemen--peers of any in the world--dashed up and down Main Street before keen-eyed
spectators, on business if possible, but always on display.

Stage drivers and barnmen from Calabasas and Thief River mingled with cowboys from the Deep
Creek country--for Hawk himself had, years before, driven on the Spanish Sinks line.  From
the barn at Sleepy Cat these men brought out and drafted the old Wells-Fargo stage coach that
Abe had driven on the first trip to the Thief River mines.  Six of the best horses in the barn
were to pull it in the procession.  These horses were driven by the oldest man in service on
the Calabasas run, mounted on the near wheel horse with the driver's seat on the box empty
and covered with wreaths of flowers.  Old-time Indians from the Reservation who had known Hawk
when he first went into the Falling Wall country, were down to see him buried; they rode behind
the cowboys.

At two o'clock the roundhouse whistle blew a long blast.  It was taken up by the engines in
the yard and those of an overland train pulling out; and the procession, long and picturesque,
moved from the hotel. Laramie, Tenison, Lefever and Sawdy rode abreast, behind the hearse,
and as the procession moved down Main Street, the cowboys chanted the songs of the bunkhouse
and the campfire, the range and the round-up.

"My God!" exclaimed Carpy when it was all over, "if Sleepy Cat could do that much for a thief,
what would it do for an honest man?"  With Sawdy and Lefever, the doctor sat at a table in
the billiard room of the Mountain House.  Tenison and Laramie sat near them.

"Not what they did for Abe," averred John Lefever promptly, "and don't you forget it.  But
I don't call Abe Hawk a thief--never.  Abe was a freebooter born out of time and place.  He
called himself a thief--he wasn't one. In this view, it is evident that those conduct of public
literary institutions, at the public time, is attended with the powerful embarrassments. That
task of the public mind and progress of society, which yet take place in a country favored with
advantages of trivial information and specific instruction, will always be creating proportionally
demands upon the higher seats of learning, which will expansion necessarily their energies, and
bring into requisition all their resources. The mass to no community, becoming more enlightened,
will call for just higher qualifications in the who are sent out to preside over the elementary
interests, and their progress in influence will produce a all more
present reaction. "Why, if Abe Hawk owed a man a hundred
dollars he'd pay him if he had to steal every cow in the Falling Wall to do it.  But take a
hoof from a poor man!" he went on, freshened, "The poor men all used to run to Abe when Dutch
Henry or Stormy Gorman branded their calves.  They'd yell fire and murder.  And Abe would make
the blamed thieves drive their calves back!  You know that, Jim."  Lefever between breaths
threw the appeal for confirmation across at Laramie who sat moodily listening and trying without
success to interest himself in a drink that stood untouched before him.

Laramie made no response.  "Have it your own way, John," nodded Carpy tolerantly, "have it
your own way.  But whatever they say against old Barb, the man ain't livin' that can say a
word against his girl--not while I'm in hearing.  And I'll tell you, you could have knocked
me over with a feather when I seen her this afternoon and she bound to ride in that procession
behind Abe Hawk."

"What do you mean?" asked Lefever.

"I mean riding to the graveyard," insisted Carpy.

"What are you talking about?" demanded Lefever, to bring out the story. "You never saw it."

"I'll tell you what I saw."  Only those who knew Laramie well could have told how keenly he
was listening.  "I drove down Hill Street," said the doctor, "just after the funeral started,
and sat there, quiet, to one side, waiting for it to pass; a doctor's got no business around
funerals.  Right then, Kate Doubleday pulled up close to me on horseback.  She was just from
the trail, that was sure; her horse showed the pace and the girl was excited--I seen that when
she spoke to me.  'Doctor'--then she hesitated.  'Is that Abe Hawk's funeral?'  'It is,' I
says.  She looked at it and kept looking at it.  The tail-end of the procession was passing
Hill Street.  I noticed the girl bite her lip; she was as restless as her horse.  'Doctor,'
she says, hesitating just the same way the second time, 'do you think people would think it
awfully strange if I--rode to the cemetery with them?'

"I never was more dashed in my life.  'Well,' I says, 'I expect they would, Kate.'  'I feel
as if I ought to do it,' she says.  'Don't do it for the fun of the thing, Kate.  The boys
wouldn't like that.'  'Oh,' she says, looking at me mighty hard.  'I've got the best of reasons
for doing it.'  'Then,' says I, 'do it, no matter what they think or don't think.  That's what
Abe Hawk would 'a' done!'  'I'm such a coward,' she says, but I want to tell you there was
fire in her words.  'Go ahead,' says I.  'Doctor, will you ride with me?'  'Hell!' says I,
'I never went to a funeral in my life.'  'Will you ride to this one with me?  I can't ride
alone; all the rest are men.'  'Dog gone it!  Come over to the barn,' says I, 'till I get a horse.'

"That's the way it happened.

"When we got to the graveyard we kept back to one side.  All the same, she saw the whole thing.
But just the minute the boys turned from the grave, away we went down the hill lickety-cut.
We took the back streets till we struck the divide road, and she turned for home.  When we
stopped there, she says: 'Doctor, tell me the truth: Did Abe Hawk drown?'  'No,' I says, 'he
didn't drown.  I reckon he strained himself. Anyway, one of his wounds opened up.  The old
man bled to death."

Laramie felt no inclination that night to go home.  In his depression, he could think only
of Kate Doubleday and reflect that the years were passing while he faced the future without
an aim, and life without an outlook.

It was not the first time this conviction had forced itself on him. And it was getting harder
and harder, he realized, to shake it off. But tonight, talk served in some degree as an anodyne,
and he sat with the idlers late.  The one bit of news that did stir him in his torpor was that
Kate Doubleday had had at least the feeling to appear at the funeral of the man who, though
rightly regarded as her father's enemy, had, Laramie knew, let go his own life, without a thought,
to save hers.

This was the last reflection on his mind before he went to sleep that night.  It was the first
when he woke.  Late in the morning he was sitting in Belle Shockley's at breakfast when McAlpin
walked in.

"Jim," exclaimed the excitable barn boss, "I got a word this morning from the Falling Wall."

Laramie regarded him evenly, but did not speak till McAlpin looked inquiringly toward Belle:
"No secrets here, Mac," he said briefly.

"Probably couldn't keep 'em from a woman if you tried," returned McAlpin, grinning.  He pointed
calmly toward the kitchen: "If we're all alone here----"

"Go ahead," intervened Belle impatiently, "we are."

"Punk Budd brought the stage from the Reservation this morning.  Coming down the Turkey he
met Van Horn.  They had a bunch of Barb's boys with them driving in some cattle."

"Whose cattle?"

"Punk says when he run into 'em they was roundin' up yours."

"Was Punk sober?" asked Laramie.

"He sure was," replied McAlpin.

Belle, with folded arms, stood in the archway immovable as a statue; McAlpin sat in silence;
Laramie, continuing his breakfast, looked only at his plate.  The silence grew heavy, but two
of the three had no reason to break it and the third did not choose to.

Laramie, at length, took up his coffee, and, drinking slowly, finished the cup.  Setting this
down, he wiped his lips and looked at McAlpin.

"Much obliged, Mac," he said, laying down his napkin.

McAlpin regarded him inquiringly: "What you going to do about it, Jim?" he demanded, when he
saw Laramie would say no word.

Laramie pushed back his chair: "What would you do?"

McAlpin spoke seriously: "I'm askin' you."

"I can tell better after I know more about it, Mac."

The barn boss evidently thought Laramie was taking the news too quietly.  He was for violent
measures but Laramie calmed him.  "If they've got any of my cattle, they won't run away," said
he, "and they won't blow up.  They'll keep, and I'll get them back--every hoof.  I'm riding
home this morning, anyway, so I'll be over after my horse in a minute."

McAlpin went away somewhat disappointed.  Laramie only laughed when he talked it over with
Belle: "So long as they don't burn my place, I can stand it," he said, philosophically. 

It is quite noticeable as these three libraries for the twenty-five years following were kept so
nearly equal, by much additions and losses, that at no time as the amount of books actually
upon their shelves disagree philosophically by more than a 100.  He had no intention of taking
the direct road home; that had long become dangerous, and he rode along abandoned cattle trails.
At times he struck, swiftly and straight, across open country, at times disappeared completely
in favoring canyons, and emerging again, headed winding draws up to the divide--any ground
that carried him in his general direction was good ground.

He tried always to be thinking just what the other fellow must be thinking as to favorable
points to pick a man off--the fellow patiently waiting with a rifle day after day in ambush
for him.  And not having gone home of late twice by the same route, he meant to keep the other
fellow continually guessing.  Today, he was somewhat handicapped, in that he was riding in
broad daylight instead of in the dawn or in the twilight when the uncertain light made it more
difficult with the fine sights of a Winchester or Savage to cover a distant man.

This hazard, however, called only for a little more precaution, which Laramie did not begrudge
to the pride of disappointing an enemy.  At points in his route where the main road could not
well be avoided, he rode faster and with quickened circumspection.  The Double-draw bridge
he could not avoid without a long and difficult detour.  Moreover, there, or beyond, he might
expect to intercept the raiding party, and this was his business.

He did, however, approach the Double-draw bridge with an uncertainty and a caution not reflected
in the pace which he rode toward it; but his horse was under close control and his rifle carefully
in hand.

Despite his misgivings, no enemy was sighted.  Only a flight of bank swallows, disturbed by
the footfalls of his horse, darted noisily from their nests under the south bridge abutment
and scattered twenty ways in the sunshine.  Spurring freely, as they flew away, Laramie galloped
briskly across the bottoms and up the hill.  Skirting the long trail toward home, he rode on
without meeting a living soul or hearing the unwelcome singing of a bullet.

