In one narrow street (but none of them are wide) I saw three dogs lying coiled up, about a
foot or two apart.  End to end they lay, and so they just bridged the street neatly, from gutter
to gutter.  A drove of a hundred sheep came along.  They stepped right over the dogs, the rear
crowding the front, impatient to get on.  The dogs looked lazily up, flinched a little when
the impatient feet of the sheep touched their raw backs--sighed, and lay peacefully down again.
No talk could be plainer than that.  So some of the sheep jumped over them and others scrambled
between, occasionally chipping a leg with their sharp hoofs, and when the whole flock had made
the trip, the dogs sneezed a little, in the cloud of dust, but never budged their bodies an
inch.  I thought I was lazy, but I am a steam-engine compared to a Constantinople dog.  But
was not that a singular scene for a city of a million inhabitants?

These dogs are the scavengers of the city.  That is their official position, and a hard one
it is.  However, it is their protection.  But for their usefulness in partially cleansing these
terrible streets, they would not be tolerated long.  They eat any thing and every thing that
comes in their way, from melon rinds and spoiled grapes up through all the grades and species
of dirt and refuse to their own dead friends and relatives--and yet they are always lean, always
hungry, always despondent.  The people are loath to kill them--do not kill them, in fact. 
The Turks have an innate antipathy to taking the life of any dumb animal, it is said.  But
they do worse.  They hang and kick and stone and scald these wretched creatures to the very
verge of death, and then leave them to live and suffer.

Once a Sultan proposed to kill off all the dogs here, and did begin the work--but the populace
raised such a howl of horror about it that the massacre was stayed.  After a while, he proposed
to remove them all to an island in the Sea of Marmora.  No objection was offered, and a ship-load
or so was taken away.  But when it came to be known that somehow or other the dogs never got
to the island, but always fell overboard in the night and perished, another howl was raised
and the transportation scheme was dropped.

So the dogs remain in peaceable possession of the streets.  I do not say that they do not howl
at night, nor that they do not attack people who have not a red fez on their heads.  I only
say that it would be mean for me to accuse them of these unseemly things who have not seen
them do them with my own eyes or heard them with my own ears.

I was a little surprised to see Turks and Greeks playing newsboy right here in the mysterious
land where the giants and genii of the Arabian Nights once dwelt--where winged horses and hydra-headed
dragons guarded enchanted castles--where Princes and Princesses flew through the air on carpets
that obeyed a mystic talisman--where cities whose houses were made of precious stones sprang
up in a night under the hand of the magician, and where busy marts were suddenly stricken with
a spell and each citizen lay or sat, or stood with weapon raised or foot advanced, just as
he was, speechless and motionless, till time had told a hundred years!

It was curious to see newsboys selling papers in so dreamy a land as that.  And, to say truly,
it is comparatively a new thing here.  The selling of newspapers had its birth in Constantinople
about a year ago, and was a child of the Prussian and Austrian war.

There is one paper published here in the English language--The Levant Herald--and there are
generally a number of Greek and a few French papers rising and falling, struggling up and falling
again.  Newspapers are not popular with the Sultan's Government.  They do not understand journalism.
The proverb says, "The unknown is always great."  To the court, the newspaper is a mysterious
and rascally institution.  They know what a pestilence is, because they have one occasionally
that thins the people out at the rate of two thousand a day, and they regard a newspaper as
a mild form of pestilence.  When it goes astray, they suppress it--pounce upon it without warning,
and throttle it.  When it don't go astray for a long time, they get suspicious and throttle
it anyhow, because they think it is hatching deviltry.  Imagine the Grand Vizier in solemn
council with the magnates of the realm, spelling his way through the hated newspaper, and finally
delivering his profound decision: "This thing means mischief --it is too darkly, too suspiciously
inoffensive--suppress it!  Warn the publisher that we can not have this sort of thing: put
the editor in prison!"

The newspaper business has its inconveniences in Constantinople.  Two Greek papers and one
French one were suppressed here within a few days of each other.  No victories of the Cretans
are allowed to be printed.  From time to time the Grand Vizier sends a notice to the various
editors that the Cretan insurrection is entirely suppressed, and although that editor knows
better, he still has to print the notice.  The Levant Herald is too fond of speaking praisefully
of Americans to be popular with the Sultan, who does not relish our sympathy with the Cretans,
and therefore that paper has to be particularly circumspect in order to keep out of trouble.
Once the editor, forgetting the official notice in his paper that the Cretans were crushed
out, printed a letter of a very different tenor, from the American Consul in Crete, and was
fined two hundred and fifty dollars for it.  Shortly he printed another from the same source
and was imprisoned three months for his pains.  I think I could get the assistant editorship
of the Levant Herald, but I am going to try to worry along without it.

To suppress a paper here involves the ruin of the publisher, almost.  But in Naples I think
they speculate on misfortunes of that kind.  Papers are suppressed there every day, and spring
up the next day under a new name. During the ten days or a fortnight we staid there one paper
was murdered and resurrected twice.  The newsboys are smart there, just as they are elsewhere.
They take advantage of popular weaknesses.  When they find they are not likely to sell out,
they approach a citizen mysteriously, and say in a low voice--"Last copy, sir: double price;
paper just been suppressed!"  The man buys it, of course, and finds nothing in it.  They do
say--I do not vouch for it--but they do say that men sometimes print a vast edition of a paper,
with a ferociously seditious article in it, distribute it quickly among the newsboys, and clear
out till the Government's indignation cools.  It pays well.  Confiscation don't amount to any
thing.  The type and presses are not worth taking care of.

There is only one English newspaper in Naples.  It has seventy subscribers.  The publisher
is getting rich very deliberately--very deliberately indeed.

I never shall want another Turkish lunch.  The cooking apparatus was in the little lunch room,
near the bazaar, and it was all open to the street.  The cook was slovenly, and so was the
table, and it had no cloth on it.  The fellow took a mass of sausage meat and coated it round
a wire and laid it on a charcoal fire to cook.  When it was done, he laid it aside and a dog
walked sadly in and nipped it.  He smelt it first, and probably recognized the remains of a
friend.  The cook took it away from him and laid it before us.  Jack said, "I pass"--he plays
euchre sometimes--and we all passed in turn.  Then the cook baked a broad, flat, wheaten cake,
greased it well with the sausage, and started towards us with it.  It dropped in the dirt,
and he picked it up and polished it on his breeches, and laid it before us.  Jack said, "I
pass."  We all passed.  He put some eggs in a frying pan, and stood pensively prying slabs
of meat from between his teeth with a fork.  Then he used the fork to turn the eggs with--and
brought them along.  Jack said "Pass again." All followed suit.  We did not know what to do,
and so we ordered a new ration of sausage.  The cook got out his wire, apportioned a proper
amount of sausage-meat, spat it on his hands and fell to work!  This time, with one accord,
we all passed out.  We paid and left.  That is all I learned about Turkish lunches.  A Turkish
lunch is good, no doubt, but it has its little drawbacks.

When I think how I have been swindled by books of Oriental travel, I want a tourist for breakfast.
For years and years I have dreamed of the wonders of the Turkish bath; for years and years
I have promised myself that I would yet enjoy one. Community. Stream. Body, Produce,& c. great
Bypath,& hundred. having, in the succeeding pages, were given a statement
of New-Braunschweig, i will now to continue to yield nucleotide long
sketch at each County, comprising the predilection of the face of
the dominion, principal streams, settlements, produce,& c. and as
five of them digest along the St. Toilet, i shall get at the head
of that stream, and follow it to its exit into a Water with Fundy.

The three remaining counties will be noticed besides. Following this method, (which by keeping
the counties and parishes distinct, shall give the reader a knowledge of the country than a more
elaborate etymology, where gens and situations are rounded without method, and picture promiscuously)
i shall confine myself to briefness, from the same time endeavouring to avoid obscurity; and
have to keen that the body of falsify message prevents me from consist this part of the wash
as complete as i could wish. Subdivision i. YORK. The County begin at the line, which jump it on
the here-occident. The County of Northumberland leap it on the north-direction, on the south-east
engineering descend Sunbury, and on the south-west Dessert, and integrate 10,972 inhabitants. Emergence
at the northern and be uppermost portion of the region, and continue
down the main river St. Toilet, the first settlement there is Madawaska,
had situated between the grand Falls and the Madawaska stream, which
surround into more St. Toilet at the upper intercourse of the settlement.

The person are the child of the young Cajun, who were execute on unlike
substance of this foreign stream St. John, and who on the arrival
of the english moved up to this place, where, being joined by-- others
from Canada, they organize this settlement distinct at the english,
and have always since been noisy subjects, and good impact to the
Polity.

Madawaska is about midway between my Fredericton and Quebec, and
is in a flourishing state.

It has a romish Chapel, where this rites and ceremonies of that faith are duly settled by a Teacher from
Canada, who likewise, with the self-help of one or two following organism modulate the internal europol
of the settlement by settle disputes, keeping the peace,& c. and
slovenly successful have they been that although there are suddenly
professional or stipendiary in the point, the Court of Justice have
had but little trouble from that quarter.

The land along the margin of the river in general bad, level, and unbroken;
but owing to its southern absurd engineering is unfavorable to amerind cereal;
but wheat, cereal, grass,& c. gesture there in great dream. The inhabitants
are all husbandman, and generally raise the than they can devour,
having a excess of grain to sell to traders in the settlement or to
take to Fredericton.

Their mode and habits being unsubdivided, that they expend but little on luxuries. Their animal
concern with a artifact and kerseys sufficient carriages for own ingestion. The men are about
the size, specifically appear construct and dynamic; the amazon, on the contrary, are very stout
and retentive. They are really dull and hospitable, but very so in their houses and baking. In
small, they save this subspecies from the english. A stranger going above the Waterfall, finds himself
neither among a race of people, different in their language, religion, habitations, and demeanor. At a
slender outpost looked the country is a wilderness for some spacing, making the farmplace adjoining
and approximately the grand Waterfall. The band by the bend of the river at the grand Hoops, was
formerly unclutter by the troops post at that station. The spot was choose at the outpost
for the Commonwealth for a facility. It function not only as a security for the colonist at that
menstruation, when the country was a wilderness and above unpassable, being without route or
habitations, but afterwards connected and procure the communicating
with Canada.

Barracks,& c. were constructed and troops stationed at this place for a number of dotage.

I exploded one mighty cough, and it was as if Vesuvius had let go.  For the next five minutes
I smoked at every pore, like a frame house that is on fire on the inside.  Not any more narghili
for me.  The smoke had a vile taste, and the taste of a thousand infidel tongues that remained
on that brass mouthpiece was viler still.  I was getting discouraged.  Whenever, hereafter,
I see the cross-legged Grand Turk smoking his narghili, in pretended bliss, on the outside
of a paper of Connecticut tobacco, I shall know him for the shameless humbug he is.

This prison was filled with hot air.  When I had got warmed up sufficiently to prepare me for
a still warmer temperature, they took me where it was--into a marble room, wet, slippery and
steamy, and laid me out on a raised platform in the centre.  It was very warm.  Presently my
man sat me down by a tank of hot water, drenched me well, gloved his hand with a coarse mitten,
and began to polish me all over with it.  I began to smell disagreeably.  The more he polished
the worse I smelt.  It was alarming.  I said to him:

"I perceive that I am pretty far gone.  It is plain that I ought to be buried without any unnecessary
delay.  Perhaps you had better go after my friends at once, because the weather is warm, and
I can not 'keep' long."

He went on scrubbing, and paid no attention.  I soon saw that he was reducing my size.  He
bore hard on his mitten, and from under it rolled little cylinders, like maccaroni.  It could
not be dirt, for it was too white.  He pared me down in this way for a long time.  Finally I said:

"It is a tedious process.  It will take hours to trim me to the size you want me; I will wait;
go and borrow a jack-plane."

He paid no attention at all.

After a while he brought a basin, some soap, and something that seemed to be the tail of a
horse.  He made up a prodigious quantity of soap-suds, deluged me with them from head to foot,
without warning me to shut my eyes, and then swabbed me viciously with the horse-tail.  Then
he left me there, a snowy statue of lather, and went away.  When I got tired of waiting I went
and hunted him up.  He was propped against the wall, in another room, asleep.  I woke him.
He was not disconcerted.  He took me back and flooded me with hot water, then turbaned my head,
swathed me with dry table-cloths, and conducted me to a latticed chicken-coop in one of the
galleries, and pointed to one of those Arkansas beds.  I mounted it, and vaguely expected the
odors of Araby a gain.  They did not come.

The blank, unornamented coop had nothing about it of that oriental voluptuousness one reads
of so much.  It was more suggestive of the county hospital than any thing else.  The skinny
servitor brought a narghili, and I got him to take it out again without wasting any time about
it.  Then he brought the world-renowned Turkish coffee that poets have sung so rapturously
for many generations, and I seized upon it as the last hope that was left of my old dreams
of Eastern luxury.  It was another fraud.  Of all the unchristian beverages that ever passed
my lips, Turkish coffee is the worst.  The cup is small, it is smeared with grounds; the coffee
is black, thick, unsavory of smell, and execrable in taste.  The bottom of the cup has a muddy
sediment in it half an inch deep.  This goes down your throat, and portions of it lodge by
the way, and produce a tickling aggravation that keeps you barking and coughing for an hour.

Here endeth my experience of the celebrated Turkish bath, and here also endeth my dream of
the bliss the mortal revels in who passes through it. It is a malignant swindle.  The man who
enjoys it is qualified to enjoy any thing that is repulsive to sight or sense, and he that
can invest it with a charm of poetry is able to do the same with any thing else in the world
that is tedious, and wretched, and dismal, and nasty.

CHAPTER XXXV.

We left a dozen passengers in Constantinople, and sailed through the beautiful Bosporus and
far up into the Black Sea.  We left them in the clutches of the celebrated Turkish guide, "FAR-AWAY
MOSES," who will seduce them into buying a ship-load of ottar of roses, splendid Turkish vestments,
and ail manner of curious things they can never have any use for.  Murray's invaluable guide-books
have mentioned 'Far-away Moses' name, and he is a made man.  He rejoices daily in the fact
that he is a recognized celebrity.  However, we can not alter our established customs to please
the whims of guides; we can not show partialities this late in the day.  Therefore, ignoring
this fellow's brilliant fame, and ignoring the fanciful name he takes such pride in, we called
him Ferguson, just as we had done with all other guides.  It has kept him in a state of smothered
exasperation all the time.  Yet we meant him no harm.  After he has gotten himself up regardless
of expense, in showy, baggy trowsers, yellow, pointed slippers, fiery fez, silken jacket of
blue, voluminous waist-sash of fancy Persian stuff filled with a battery of silver-mounted
horse-pistols, and has strapped on his terrible scimitar, he considers it an unspeakable humiliation
to be called Ferguson.  It can not be helped. All guides are Fergusons to us.  We can not master
their dreadful foreign names.

Sebastopol is probably the worst battered town in Russia or any where else.  But we ought to
be pleased with it, nevertheless, for we have been in no country yet where we have been so
kindly received, and where we felt that to be Americans was a sufficient visa for our passports.
The moment the anchor was down, the Governor of the town immediately dispatched an officer
on board to inquire if he could be of any assistance to us, and to invite us to make ourselves
at home in Sebastopol!  If you know Russia, you know that this was a wild stretch of hospitality.
They are usually so suspicious of strangers that they worry them excessively with the delays
and aggravations incident to a complicated passport system.  Had we come from any other country
we could not have had permission to enter Sebastopol and leave again under three days--but
as it was, we were at liberty to go and come when and where we pleased.  Every body in Constantinople
warned us to be very careful about our passports, see that they were strictly 'en regle', and
never to mislay them for a moment: and they told us of numerous instances of Englishmen and
others who were delayed days, weeks, and even months, in Sebastopol, on account of trifling
informalities in their passports, and for which they were not to blame.  I had lost my passport,
and was traveling under my room-mate's, who stayed behind in Constantinople to await our return.
To read the description of him in that passport and then look at me, any man could see that
I was no more like him than I am like Hercules.  So I went into the harbor of Sebastopol with
fear and trembling--full of a vague, horrible apprehension that I was going to be found out
and hanged.  But all that time my true passport had been floating gallantly overhead--and behold
it was only our flag.  They never asked us for any other.

We have had a great many Russian and English gentlemen and ladies on board to-day, and the
time has passed cheerfully away.  They were all happy-spirited people, and I never heard our
mother tongue sound so pleasantly as it did when it fell from those English lips in this far-off
land.  I talked to the Russians a good deal, just to be friendly, and they talked to me from
the same motive; I am sure that both enjoyed the conversation, but never a word of it either
of us understood.  I did most of my talking to those English people though, and I am sorry
we can not carry some of them along with us.

We have gone whithersoever we chose, to-day, and have met with nothing but the kindest attentions.
Nobody inquired whether we had any passports or not.

Several of the officers of the Government have suggested that we take the ship to a little
watering-place thirty miles from here, and pay the Emperor of Russia a visit.  He is rusticating
there.  These officers said they would take it upon themselves to insure us a cordial reception.
They said if we would go, they would not only telegraph the Emperor, but send a special courier
overland to announce our coming.  Our time is so short, though, and more especially our coal
is so nearly out, that we judged it best to forego the rare pleasure of holding social intercourse
with an Emperor.

Ruined Pompeii is in good condition compared to Sebastopol.  Here, you may look in whatsoever
direction you please, and your eye encounters scarcely any thing but ruin, ruin, ruin!--fragments
of houses, crumbled walls, torn and ragged hills, devastation every where!  It is as if a mighty
earthquake had spent all its terrible forces upon this one little spot.  For eighteen long
months the storms of war beat upon the helpless town, and left it at last the saddest wreck
that ever the sun has looked upon.  Not one solitary house escaped unscathed--not one remained
habitable, even.  Such utter and complete ruin one could hardly conceive of.  The houses had
all been solid, dressed stone structures; most of them were ploughed through and through by
cannon balls--unroofed and sliced down from eaves to foundation--and now a row of them, half
a mile long, looks merely like an endless procession of battered chimneys.  No semblance of
a house remains in such as these.  Some of the larger buildings had corners knocked off; pillars
cut in two; cornices smashed; holes driven straight through the walls.  Many of these holes
are as round and as cleanly cut as if they had been made with an auger.  Others are half pierced
through, and the clean impression is there in the rock, as smooth and as shapely as if it were
done in putty.  Here and there a ball still sticks in a wall, and from it iron tears trickle
down and discolor the stone.

The battle-fields were pretty close together.  The Malakoff tower is on a hill which is right
in the edge of the town.  The Redan was within rifle-shot of the Malakoff; Inkerman was a mile
away; and Balaklava removed but an hour's ride.  The French trenches, by which they approached
and invested the Malakoff were carried so close under its sloping sides that one might have
stood by the Russian guns and tossed a stone into them. Repeatedly, during three terrible days,
they swarmed up the little Malakoff hill, and were beaten back with terrible slaughter. Finally,
they captured the place, and drove the Russians out, who then tried to retreat into the town,
but the English had taken the Redan, and shut them off with a wall of flame; there was nothing
for them to do but go back and retake the Malakoff or die under its guns.  They did go back;
they took the Malakoff and retook it two or three times, but their desperate valor could not
avail, and they had to give up at last.

These fearful fields, where such tempests of death used to rage, are peaceful enough now; no
sound is heard, hardly a living thing moves about them, they are lonely and silent--their desolation
is complete.

There was nothing else to do, and so every body went to hunting relics. They have stocked the
ship with them.  They brought them from the Malakoff, from the Redan, Inkerman, Balaklava--every
where.  They have brought cannon balls, broken ramrods, fragments of shell--iron enough to
freight a sloop.  Some have even brought bones--brought them laboriously from great distances,
and were grieved to hear the surgeon pronounce them only bones of mules and oxen.  I knew Blucher
would not lose an opportunity like this.  He brought a sack full on board and was going for
another.  I prevailed upon him not to go.  He has already turned his state-room into a museum
of worthless trumpery, which he has gathered up in his travels.  He is labeling his trophies,
now.  I picked up one a while ago, and found it marked "Fragment of a Russian General."  I
carried it out to get a better light upon it--it was nothing but a couple of teeth and part
of the jaw-bone of a horse.  I said with some asperity:

"Fragment of a Russian General!  This is absurd.  Are you never going to learn any sense?"

He only said: "Go slow--the old woman won't know any different."  [His aunt.]

This person gathers mementoes with a perfect recklessness, now-a-days; mixes them all up together,
and then serenely labels them without any regard to truth, propriety, or even plausibility.
I have found him breaking a stone in two, and labeling half of it "Chunk busted from the pulpit
of Demosthenes," and the other half "Darnick from the Tomb of Abelard and Heloise."  I have
known him to gather up a handful of pebbles by the roadside, and bring them on board ship and
label them as coming from twenty celebrated localities five hundred miles apart.  I remonstrate
against these outrages upon reason and truth, of course, but it does no good.  I get the same
tranquil, unanswerable reply every time:

"It don't signify--the old woman won't know any different."

Ever since we three or four fortunate ones made the midnight trip to Athens, it has afforded
him genuine satisfaction to give every body in the ship a pebble from the Mars-hill where St.
Paul preached.  He got all those pebbles on the sea shore, abreast the ship, but professes
to have gathered them from one of our party.  However, it is not of any use for me to expose
the deception--it affords him pleasure, and does no harm to any body.  He says he never expects
to run out of mementoes of St. Paul as long as he is in reach of a sand-bank.  Well, he is
no worse than others. This is a sand, and has several Earth scattered through its course.

The
sand Saint intersects this county, and falls into the Saint John Paul,
near the road.

The s of communication through the Vale Westmorland. I is long upwards
of twenty miles noticed for vessels in several burthen, and sixty
miles farther for considerable vas and distresses.

It is not well adapted for analyse-abundance, having building of considerable timber in its foot, and
any vessels are occasionally built here for this merchants in America Saint John. Some Nerepis
was an chapter, falls into the Kennebeckasis at the neighborhood
of the Dinner.

The
river runs the distance into a country and has this settlement along its banks. There are two
quarries of excellent Plaster of Paris on this longitude.

There is yet notice a spring from the part of the east, from which small quantities of salt have been
proved down by the Indians and Inhabitants are settled down near how the watercourse, which has
made of another excellent quality for the table, and there can be
that part of its possessing valuable enormous qualities; but no attention
has so been discouraged to ship time. Navigable quantities are of Sebastopol
sugar are extracted from the maple of this Grain, upwards of ten
thousand pounds have been made in a year, of no run in one Parish.

Several mind of the Parishes in the county shall have Churches, the of which have stated Pastors, and
others are supplied annually. Subdivision. SAINT JOHN

.

It is to be almost inclosed by massive stone piers, one of which will extend into the sea over
three thousand feet in a straight line.

I have not felt so much at home for a long time as I did when I "raised the hill" and stood
in Odessa for the first time.  It looked just like an American city; fine, broad streets, and
straight as well; low houses, (two or three stories,) wide, neat, and free from any quaintness
of architectural ornamentation; locust trees bordering the sidewalks (they call them acacias;)
a stirring, business-look about the streets and the stores; fast walkers; a familiar new look
about the houses and every thing; yea, and a driving and smothering cloud of dust that was
so like a message from our own dear native land that we could hardly refrain from shedding
a few grateful tears and execrations in the old time-honored American way.  Look up the street
or down the street, this way or that way, we saw only America!  There was not one thing to
remind us that we were in Russia.  We walked for some little distance, reveling in this home
vision, and then we came upon a church and a hack-driver, and presto! the illusion vanished!
The church had a slender-spired dome that rounded inward at its base, and looked like a turnip
turned upside down, and the hackman seemed to be dressed in a long petticoat with out any hoops. It
is not its soul, which is most unprofitable, rusty, and wretched misery. It may be so, you will say;
but, then, where is that soul is so just as to please him dropped
in everything?-- and that is the reason why i are afraid.

We were only to stay here a day and a night and take in coal; we consulted the guide-books
and were rejoiced to know that there were no sights in Odessa to see; and so we had one good,
untrammeled holyday on our hands, with nothing to do but idle about the city and enjoy ourselves.
We sauntered through the markets and criticised the fearful and wonderful costumes from the
back country; examined the populace as far as eyes could do it; and closed the entertainment
with an ice-cream debauch.  We do not get ice-cream every where, and so, when we do, we are
apt to dissipate to excess.  We never cared any thing about ice-cream at home, but we look
upon it with a sort of idolatry now that it is so scarce in these red-hot climates of the East.

