Now in the constitution of a modern state, because of the conflict and confusion of ideas,
all or most of these five sub-classes may usually be found intertwined. The British constitution,
for instance, is a complicated tangle of arrangements, due to a struggle between the ideas
of Class I.(2), Class II.(3), tending to become Class II.(1) and Class II.(2) in both its aristocratic
and monarchist forms. The American constitution is largely dominated by Class I.(2), from which
it breaks away in the case of the President to a short-term monarchist aspect of Class II.(1).
I will not elaborate this classification further. I have made it here in order to render clear
first, that what we moderns mean by democracy is not what the Greeks meant at all, that is
to say, direct government by the assembly of all the citizens, and secondly and more important,
that the word "democracy" is being used very largely in current discussion, so that it is impossible
to say in any particular case whether the intention is Class I.(2) or Class II.(1), and that
we have to make up our minds whether we mean, if I may coin two phrases, "delegate democracy"
or "selective democracy," or some definite combination of these two, when we talk about "democracy,"
before we can get on much beyond a generous gesture of equality and enfranchisement towards
our brother man. The word is being used, in fact, confusingly for these two quite widely different
things.

Now, it seems to me that though there has been no very clear discussion of the issue between
those two very opposite conceptions of democracy, largely because of the want of proper distinctive
terms, there has nevertheless been a wide movement of public opinion away from "delegate democracy"
and towards "selective democracy." People have gone on saying "democracy," while gradually
changing its meaning from the former to the latter. It is notable in Great Britain, for example,
that while there has been no perceptible diminution in our faith in democracy, there has been
a growing criticism of "party" and "politicians," and a great weakening in the power and influence
of representatives and representative institutions. There has been a growing demand for personality
and initiative in elected persons. The press, which was once entirely subordinate politically
to parliamentary politics, adopts an attitude towards parliament and party leaders nowadays
which would have seemed inconceivable insolence in the days of Lord Palmerston. And there has
been a vigorous agitation in support of electoral methods which are manifestly calculated to
subordinate "delegated" to "selected" men.

The movement for electoral reform in Great Britain at the present time is one of quite fundamental
importance in the development of modern democracy. The case of the reformers is that heretofore
modern democracy has not had a fair opportunity of showing its best possibilities to the world,
because the methods of election have persistently set aside the better types of public men,
or rather of would-be public men, in favour of mere party hacks. That is a story common to
Britain and the American democracies, but in America it was expressed in rather different terms
and dealt with in a less analytical fashion than it has been in Great Britain. It was not at
first clearly understood that the failure of democracy to produce good government came through
the preference of "delegated" over "selected" men, the idea of delegation did in fact dominate
the minds of both electoral reformers and electoral conservatives alike, and the earlier stages
of the reform movement in Great Britain were inspired not so much by the idea of getting a
better type of representative as by the idea of getting a fairer representation of minorities.
It was only slowly that the idea that sensible men do not usually belong to any political "party"
took hold. It is only now being realized that what sensible men desire in a member of parliament
is honour and capacity rather than a mechanical loyalty to a "platform." They do not want to
dictate to their representative; they want a man they can trust as their representative. In
the fifties and sixties of the last century, in which this electoral reform movement began
and the method of Proportional Representation was thought out, it was possible for the reformers
to work untroubled upon the assumption that if a man was not necessarily born a

     "... little Liber-al,
     or else a little Conservative,"

he must at least be a Liberal-Unionist or a Conservative Free-Trader. But seeking a fair representation
for party minorities, these reformers produced a system of voting at once simple and incapable
of manipulation, that leads straight, not to the representation of small parties, but to a
type of democratic government by selected best men.

Before giving the essential features of that system, it may be well to state in its simplest
form the evils at which the reform aims. An election, the reformers point out, is not the simple
matter it appears to be at the first blush. Methods of voting can be manipulated in various
ways, and nearly every method has its own liability to falsification. We may take for illustration
the commonest, simplest case--the case that is the perplexity of every clear-thinking voter
under British or American conditions--the case of a constituency in which every elector has
one vote, and which returns one representative to Parliament. The naive theory on which people
go is that all the possible candidates are put up, that each voter votes for the one he likes
best, and that the best man wins. The bitter experience is that hardly ever are there more
than two candidates, and still more rarely is either of these the best man possible. Suppose,
for example, the constituency is mainly Conservative. A little group of pothouse politicians,
wire-pullers, busybodies, local journalists, and small lawyers, working for various monetary
interests, have "captured" the local Conservative organization. They have time and energy to
capture it, because they have no other interest in life except that. It is their "business,"
and honest men are busy with other duties. For reasons that do not appear these local "workers"
put up an unknown Mr. Goldbug as the official Conservative candidate. He professes a generally
Conservative view of things, but few people are sure of him and few people trust him. Against
him the weaker (and therefore still more venal) Liberal organization now puts up a Mr. Kentshire
(formerly Wurstberg) to represent the broader thought and finer generosities of the English
mind. A number of Conservative gentlemen, generally too busy about their honest businesses
to attend the party "smokers" and the party cave, realize suddenly that they want Goldbug hardly
more than they want Wurstberg. They put up their long-admired, trusted, and able friend Mr.
Sanity as an Independent Conservative.

Every one knows the trouble that follows. Mr. Sanity is "going to split the party vote." The
hesitating voter is told, with considerable truth, that a vote given for Mr. Sanity is a vote
given for Wurstberg. At any price the constituency does not want Wurstberg. So at the eleventh
hour Mr. Sanity is induced to withdraw, and Mr. Goldbug goes into Parliament to misrepresent
this constituency. And so with most constituencies, and the result is a legislative body consisting
largely of men of unknown character and obscure aims, whose only credential is the wearing
of a party label. They come into parliament not to forward the great interests they ostensibly
support, but with an eye to the railway jobbery, corporation business, concessions and financial
operations that necessarily go on in and about the national legislature. That in its simplest
form is the dilemma of democracy. The problem that has confronted modern democracy since its
beginning has not really been the representation of organized minorities--they are very well
able to look after themselves--but the protection of the unorganized mass of busily occupied,
fairly intelligent men from the tricks of the specialists who work the party machines. We know
Mr. Sanity, we want Mr. Sanity, but we are too busy to watch the incessant intrigues to oust
him in favour of the obscurely influential people, politically docile, who are favoured by
the organization. We want an organizer-proof method of voting. It is in answer to this demand,
as the outcome of a most careful examination of the ways in which voting may be protected from
the exploitation of those who work elections, that the method of Proportional Representation
with a single transferable vote has been evolved. It is organizer-proof. It defies the caucus.
If you do not like Mr. Goldbug you can put up and vote for Mr. Sanity, giving Mr. Goldbug your
second choice, in the most perfect confidence that in any case your vote cannot help to return
Mr. Wurstberg.

With Proportional Representation with a single transferable vote (this specification is necessary,
because there are also the inferior imitations of various election-riggers figuring as proportional
representation), it is impossible to prevent the effective candidature of independent men of
repute beside the official candidates. 

"good," you said Gonzague. "him must wait upon support. And upon princess,"
he added.

Gonzague, whose intimacy with king is always made him the first to be bidden to any festivity, entered
the unchallenged, and was warmly welcomed by Louis. Peyrolles remained outside, walking up and
down, immersed support in your enormous reflections. He had been failed to find the girl;
he had failed to get with the traces are of similarly; he had seen nothing for æsop. The ball,
so pleasant to everybody absolutely, seemed to him may be hopeless menace, and it have eyed
with disapproval of the jolly, noisy folk that thronged the alleys and shook the laughter.
Distasteful with sour humors, as he leaned of a tree, cursing in his heart of those swordsmen
who had failed to mark rid of a enemy. And that is all the
voter has to do. The reckoning and counting of the votes presents not the slightest difficulty
to any one used to the business of computation. Silly and dishonest men, appealing to still
sillier audiences, have got themselves and their audiences into humorous muddles over this
business, but the principles are perfectly plain and simple. Let me state them here; they can
be fully and exactly stated, with various ornaments, comments, arguments, sarcastic remarks,
and digressions, in seventy lines of this type.

It will be evident that, in any election under this system, any one who has got a certain proportion
of No. 1 votes will be elected. If, for instance, five people have to be elected and 20,000
voters vote, then any one who has got 4001 first votes or more must be elected. 4001 votes
is in that case enough to elect a candidate. This sufficient number of votes is called the
quota, and any one who has more than that number of votes has obviously got more votes than
is needful for election. So, to begin with, the voting papers are classified according to their
first votes, and any candidates who have got more than a quota of first votes are forthwith
declared elected. But most of these elected men would under the old system waste votes because
they would have too many; for manifestly a candidate who gets more than the quota of votes
needs only a fraction of each of these votes to return him. If, for instance, he gets double
the quota he needs only half each vote. He takes that fraction, therefore, under this new and
better system, and the rest of each vote is entered on to No. 2 upon that voting paper. And
so on. Now this is an extremely easy job for an accountant or skilled computer, and it is quite
easily checked by any other accountant and skilled computer. A reader with a bad arithmetical
education, ignorant of the very existence of such a thing as a slide rule, knowing nothing
of account keeping, who thinks of himself working out the resultant fractions with a stumpy
pencil on a bit of greasy paper in a bad light, may easily think of this transfer of fractions
as a dangerous and terrifying process. It is, for a properly trained man, the easiest, exactest
job conceivable. The Cash Register people will invent machines to do it for you while you wait.
What happens, then, is that every candidate with more than a quota, beginning with the top
candidate, sheds a traction of each vote he has received, down the list, and the next one sheds
his surplus fraction in the same way, and so on until candidates lower in the list, who are
at first below the quota, fill up to it. When all the surplus votes of the candidates at the
head of the list have been disposed of, then the hopeless candidates at the bottom of the list
are dealt with. The second votes on their voting papers are treated as whole votes and distributed
up the list, and so on. It will be plain to the quick-minded that, towards the end, there will
be a certain chasing about of little fractions of votes, and a slight modification of the quota
due to voting papers having no second or third preferences marked upon them, a chasing about
that it will be difficult for an untrained intelligence to follow. But untrained intelligences
are not required to follow it. For the skilled computer these things offer no difficulty at
all. And they are not difficulties of principle but of manipulation. One might as well refuse
to travel in a taxicab until the driver had explained the magneto as refuse to accept the principle
of Proportional Representation by the single transferable vote until one had remedied all the
deficiencies of one's arithmetical education. The fundamental principle of the thing, that
a candidate who gets more votes than he wants is made to hand on a fraction of each vote to
the voter's second choice, and that a candidate whose chances are hopeless is made to hand
on the whole vote to the voter's second choice, so that practically only a small number of
votes are ineffective, is within the compass of the mind of a boy of ten.

But simple as this method is, it completely kills the organization and manipulation of voting.
It completely solves the Goldbug-Wurstberg- Sanity problem. It is knave-proof--short of forging,
stealing, or destroying voting papers. A man of repute, a leaderly man, may defy all the party
organizations in existence and stand beside and be returned over the head of a worthless man,
though the latter be smothered with party labels. That is the gist of this business. The difference
in effect between Proportional Representation and the old method of voting must ultimately
be to change the moral and intellectual quality of elected persons profoundly. People are only
beginning to realize the huge possibilities of advance inherent in this change of political
method. It means no less than a revolution from "delegate democracy" to "selective democracy."

Now, I will not pretend to be anything but a strong partizan in this matter. When I speak of
"democracy" I mean "selective democracy." I believe that "delegate democracy" is already provably
a failure in the world, and that the reason why to-day, after three and a half years of struggle,
we are still fighting German autocracy and fighting with no certainty of absolute victory,
is because the affairs of the three great Atlantic democracies have been largely in the hands
not of selected men but of delegated men, men of intrigue and the party machine, of dodges
rather than initiatives, second-rate men. When Lord Haldane, defending his party for certain
insufficiencies in their preparation for the eventuality of the great war, pleaded that they
had no "mandate" from the country to do anything of the sort, he did more than commit political
suicide, he bore conclusive witness against the whole system which had made him what he was.
Neither Britain nor France in this struggle has produced better statesmen nor better generals
than the German autocracy. The British and French Foreign Offices are old monarchist organizations
still. To this day the British and French politicians haggle and argue with the German ministers
upon petty points and debating society advantages, smart and cunning, while the peoples perish.
The one man who has risen to the greatness of this great occasion, the man who is, in default
of any rival, rapidly becoming the leader of the world towards peace, is neither a delegate
politician nor the choice of a monarch and his councillors. He is the one authoritative figure
in these transactions whose mind has not been subdued either by long discipline in the party
machine or by court intrigue, who has continued his education beyond those early twenties when
the mind of the "budding politician" ceases to expand, who has thought, and thought things
out, who is an educated man among dexterous under-educated specialists. By something very like
a belated accident in the framing of the American constitution, the President of the United
States is more in the nature of a selected man than any other conspicuous figure at the present
time. He is specially elected by a special electoral college after an elaborate preliminary
selection of candidates by the two great party machines. And be it remembered that Mr. Wilson
is not the first great President the United States have had, he is one of a series of figures
who tower over their European contemporaries. The United States have had many advantageous
circumstances to thank for their present ascendancy in the world's affairs: isolation from
militarist pressure for a century and a quarter, a vast virgin continent, plenty of land, freedom
from centralization, freedom from titles and social vulgarities, common schools, a real democratic
spirit in its people, and a great enthusiasm for universities; but no single advantage has
been so great as this happy accident which has given it a specially selected man as its voice
and figurehead in the world's affairs. In the average congressman, in the average senator,
as Ostrogorski's great book so industriously demonstrated, the United States have no great
occasion for pride. Neither the Senate nor the House of Representatives seem to rise above
the level of the British Houses of Parliament, with a Government unable to control the rebel
forces of Ulster, unable to promote or dismiss generals without an outcry, weakly amenable
to the press, and terrifyingly incapable of great designs. It is to the United States of America
we must look now if the world is to be made "safe for democracy." It is to the method of selection,
as distinguished from delegation, that we must look if democracy is to be saved from itself.

X

THE RECENT STRUGGLE FOR PROPORTIONAL REPRESENTATION IN GREAT BRITAIN

British political life resists cleansing with all the vigour of a dirty little boy. It is nothing
to your politician that the economic and social organization of all the world, is strained
almost to the pitch of collapse, and that it is vitally important to mankind that everywhere
the whole will and intelligence of the race should be enlisted in the great tasks of making
a permanent peace and reconstructing the shattered framework of society. These are remote,
unreal considerations to the politician. What is the world to him? He has scarcely heard of
it. He has been far too busy as a politician. He has been thinking of smart little tricks in
the lobby and brilliant exploits at question time. He has been thinking of jobs and appointments,
of whether Mr. Asquith is likely to "come back" and how far it is safe to bank upon L. G. His
one supreme purpose is to keep affairs in the hands of his own specialized set, to keep the
old obscure party game going, to rig his little tricks behind a vast, silly camouflage of sham
issues, to keep out able men and disinterested men, the public mind, and the general intelligence,
from any effective interference with his disastrous manipulations of the common weal.

I do not see how any intelligent and informed man can have followed the recent debates in the
House of Commons upon Proportional Representation without some gusts of angry contempt. They
were the most pitiful and alarming demonstration of the intellectual and moral quality of British
public life at the present time.

From the wire-pullers of the Fabian Society and from the party organizers of both Liberal and
Tory party alike, and from the knowing cards, the pothouse shepherds, and jobbing lawyers who
"work" the constituencies, comes the chief opposition to this straightening out of our electoral
system so urgently necessary and so long overdue. They have fought it with a zeal and efficiency
that is rarely displayed in the nation's interest. From nearly every outstanding man outside
that little inner world of political shams and dodges, who has given any attention to the question,
comes, on the other hand, support for this reform. Even the great party leaders, Mr. Balfour
and Mr. Asquith, were in its favour. One might safely judge this question by considering who
are the advocates on either side. But the best arguments for Proportional Representation arise
out of its opponents' speeches, and to these I will confine my attention now. Consider Lord
Harcourt--heir to the most sacred traditions of the party game--hurling scorn at a project
that would introduce "faddists, mugwumps," and so on and so on--in fact independent thinking
men--into the legislature. Æsop looked at him with imperative eyebrows and a grin. "why banish the
lady? She might find my tale."

At signal from a Lagardere, Dear paris entered the Inn. So then advanced towards æsop, who watched
him with familiar arms and his folded malevolent and smile. When they were close lagardere, æsop
greeted so: "dear quite the rat
has come to the trap at last. Lagardere in Gabrielle-- ha, ha!" Lagardere
looked at him ponderingly.

"the thought amuses you." Æsop's grin

.
 London, alas! does not seem to care how its members are
elected. What Londoner knows anything about his member? Hundreds of thousands of Londoners
do not even know which of the ridiculous constituencies into which the politicians have dismembered
our London they are in. Only as I was writing this in my flat in St. James's Court, Westminster,
did it occur to me to inquire who was representing me in the councils of the nation while I
write....

After some slight difficulty I ascertained that my representative is a Mr. Burdett Coutts,
who was, in the romantic eighties, Mr. Ashmead-Bartlett. And by a convenient accident I find
that the other day he moved to reject the Proportional Representation Amendment made by the
House of Lords to the Representation of the People Bill, so that I am able to look up the debate
in Hansard and study my opinions as he represented them and this question at one and the same
time. And, taking little things first, I am proud and happy to discover that the member for
me was the only participator in the debate who, in the vulgar and reprehensible phrase, "threw
a dead cat," or, in polite terms, displayed classical learning. My member said, "Timeo Danaos
et dona ferentes," with a rather graceful compliment to the Labour Conference at Nottingham.
"I could not help thinking to myself," said my member, "that at that conference there must
have been many men of sufficient classical reading to say to themselves, 'Timeo Danaos et dona
ferentes.'" In which surmise he was quite right. Except perhaps for "Tempus fugit," "verbum
sap.," "Arma virumque," and "Quis custodiet," there is no better known relic of antiquity.
But my member went a little beyond my ideas when he said: "We are asked to enter upon a method
of legislation which can bear no other description than that of law-making in the dark," because
I think it can bear quite a lot of other descriptions. This was, however, the artistic prelude
to a large, vague, gloomy dissertation about nothing very definite, a muddling up of the main
question with the minor issue of a schedule of constituencies involved in the proposal.

The other parts of my member's speech do not, I confess, fill me with the easy confidence I
would like to feel in my proxy. Let me extract a few gems of eloquence from the speech of this
voice which speaks for me, and give also the only argument he advanced that needs consideration.
"History repeats itself," he said, "very often in curious ways as to facts, but generally with
very different results." That, honestly, I like. It is a sentence one can read over several
times. But he went on to talk of the entirely different scheme for minority representation,
which was introduced into the Reform Bill of 1867, and there I am obliged to part company with
him. That was a silly scheme for giving two votes to each voter in a three-member constituency.
It has about as much resemblance to the method of scientific voting under discussion as a bath-chair
has to an aeroplane. "But that measure of minority representation led to a baneful invention,"
my representative went on to say, "and left behind it a hateful memory in the Birmingham caucus.
I well remember that when I stood for Parliament thirty-two years ago we had no better platform
weapon than repeating over and over again in a sentence the name of Mr. Schnadhorst, and I
am not sure that it would not serve the same purpose now. Under that system the work of the
caucus was, of course, far simpler than it will be if this system ever comes into operation.
All the caucus had to do under that measure was to divide the electors into three groups and
with three candidates, A., B., and C., to order one group to vote for A. and B., another for
B. and C., and the third for A. and C., and they carried the whole of their candidates and
kept them for many years. But the multiplicity of ordinal preferences, second, third, fourth,
fifth, up to tenth, which the single transferable vote system would involve, will require a
more scientific handling in party interests, and neither party will be able to face an election
with any hope of success without the assistance of the most drastic form of caucus and without
its orders being carried out by the electors."

