"A novelty since you were here," whispered Bentley in Doris's ear. "She's an accountant--capital
girl! Since these Liberal budgets came along, I can't keep my own accounts, or send in my own
income-tax returns--dash them! So she does the whole business for me--pays everything--sees
to everything--comes once a week. We shall all be run by the women soon!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The studio had grown very quiet. Through some glass doors open to the garden came in little
wandering winds which played with some loose papers on the floor, and blew Doris's hair about
her eyes as she stooped over her easel, absorbed in her drawing. Apparently absorbed: her subliminal
mind, at least, was far away, wandering on a craggy Scotch moor. A lady on a Scotch pony--she
understood that Lady Dunstable often rode with the shooters--and a tall man walking beside
her, carrying, not a gun, but a walking stick:--that was the vision in the crystal. Arthur
was too bad a shot to be tolerated in the Dunstable circle; had indeed wisely announced from
the beginning that he was not to be included among the guns. All the more time for conversation,
the give and take of wits, the pleasures of the intellectual tilting-ground; the whole watered
by good wine, seasoned with the best of cooking, and lapped in the general ease of a house
where nobody ever thought of such a vulgar thing as money except to spend it.

Doris had in general a severe mind as to the rich and aristocratic classes. Her own hard and
thrifty life had disposed her to see them en noir. But the sudden rush of a certain section
of them to crowd Arthur's lectures had been certainly mollifying. If it had not been for the
Vampire, Doris was well aware that her standards might have given way.

As it was, Lady Dunstable's exacting ways, her swoop, straight and fierce, on the social morsel
she desired, like that of an eagle on the sheepfold, had made her, in Doris's sore consciousness,
the representative of thousands more; all greedy, able, domineering, inevitably getting what
they wanted, and more than they deserved; against whom the starved and virtuous intellectuals
of the professional classes were bound to contend to the death. The story of that poor girl,
that clergyman's daughter, for instance--could anything have been more insolent--more cruel?
Doris burned to avenge her.

Suddenly--a great clatter and noise in the passage leading from the small house behind to the
studio and garden.

"Here she is!"

Uncle Charles sprang up, and reached the studio door just as a shower of knocks descended upon
it from outside. He opened it, and on the threshold there stood two persons; a stout lady in
white, surmounted by a huge black hat with a hearse-like array of plumes; and, behind her,
a tall and willowy youth, with--so far as could be seen through the chinks of the hat--a large
nose, fair hair, pale blue eyes, and a singular deficiency of chin. He carried in his arms
a tiny black Spitz with a pink ribbon round its neck.

The lady looked, frowning, into the interior of the studio. She held in her hand a very large
fan, with the handle of which she had been rapping the door; and the black feathers with which
she was canopied seemed to be nodding in her eyes.

"Maestro, you are not alone!" she said in a deep, reproachful voice.

"My niece, Mrs. Meadows--Madame Vavasour," said Bentley, ushering in the new-comer.

Doris turned from her easel and bowed, only to receive a rather scowling response.

"And your friend?" As he spoke the artist looked blandly at the young man.

"I brought him to amuse me, Maestro. When I am dull my countenance changes, and you cannot
do it justice. He will talk to me--I shall be animated--and you will profit."

"Ah, no doubt!" said Bentley, smiling. "And your friend's name?"

"Herbert Dunstable--Honourable Herbert Dunstable!--Signor Bentley," said Madame Vavasour, advancing
with a stately step into the room, and waving peremptorily to the young man to follow.

Doris sat transfixed and staring. Bentley turned to look at his niece, and their eyes met--his
full of suppressed mirth. The son!--the unsatisfactory son! Doris remembered that his name
was Herbert. In the train of this third-rate sorceress!

Her thoughts ran excitedly to the distant moors, and that magnificent lady, with her circle
of distinguished persons, holiday-making statesmen, peers, diplomats, writers, and the like.
Here was a humbler scene! But Doris's fancy at once divined a score of links between it and
the high comedy yonder.

Meanwhile, at the name of Dunstable, the girl accountant in the distance had also moved sharply,
so as to look at the young man. But in the bustle of Madame Vavasour's entrance, and her passage
to the sitter's chair, the girl's gesture passed unnoticed.

"I'm just worn out, Maestro!" said the model languidly, uplifting a pair of tragic eyes to
the artist. "I sat up half the night writing. I had a subject which tormented me. But I have
done something splendid! Isn't it splendid, Herbert?"

"Ripping!" said the young man, grinning widely.

"Sit down!" said Madame, with a change of tone. And the youth sat down, on the very low chair
to which she pointed him, doing his best to dispose of his long legs.

"Give me the dog!" she commanded. "You have no idea how to hold him--poor lamb!"

The dog was handed to her; she took off her enormous hat with many sighs of fatigue, and then,
with the dog on her lap, asked how she was to sit. Bentley explained that he wished to make
a few preliminary sketches of her head and bust, and proceeded to pose her. She accepted his
directions with a curious pettishness, as though they annoyed her; and presently complained
loudly that the chair was uncomfortable, and the pose irksome. He handled her, however, with
a good-humoured mixture of flattery and persuasion, and at last, stepping back, surveyed the
result--well content.

There was no doubt whatever that she was a very handsome woman, and that her physical type--that
of the more lethargic and heavily built Neapolitan--suggested very happily the mad and melancholy
Queen. She had superb black hair, eyes profoundly dark, a low and beautiful brow, lips classically
fine, a powerful head and neck, and a complexion which, but for the treatment given it, would
have been of a clear and beautiful olive. She wore a draggled dress of cream-coloured muslin,
very transparent over the shoulders, somewhat scandalously wanting at the throat and breast,
and very frayed and dirty round the skirt. Her feet, which were large and plump, were cased
in extremely pointed shoes with large paste buckles; and as she crossed them on the stool provided
for them she showed a considerable amount of rather clumsy ankle. The hands too were large,
common, and ill-kept, and the wrists laden with bracelets. She was adorned indeed with a great
deal of jewellery, including some startling earrings of a bright green stone. The hat, which
she had carefully placed on a chair beside her, was truly a monstrosity!--but, as Doris guessed,
an expensive monstrosity, such as the Rue de la Paix provides, at anything from a hundred and
fifty to two hundred and fifty francs, for those of its cosmopolitan customers whom it pillages
and despises. How did the lady afford it? The rest of her dress suggested a struggle with small
means, waged by one who was greedy for effect, obtained at a minimum of trouble. That she was
rouged and powdered goes without saying.

And the young man? Doris perceived at once his likeness to his father--a feeble likeness. But
he was evidently simple and good-natured, and to all appearance completely in the power of
the enchantress. He fanned her assiduously. He picked up all the various belongings--gloves,
handkerchiefs, handbag--which she perpetually let fall. He ran after the dog whenever it escaped
from the lady's lap and threatened mischief in the studio; and by way of amusing her--the purpose
for which he had been imported--he kept up a stream of small cryptic gossip about various common
acquaintances, most of whom seemed to belong to the music-hall profession, and to be either
"stars" or the satellites of "stars." Madame listened to him with avidity, and occasionally
broke into a giggling laugh. She had, however, two manners, and two kinds of conversation,
which she adopted with the young man and the Academician respectively. She must fall at six, or earlier,
that tidy, open side-door and her parlor-blinds, and the need-room windows, and then proceed to the
front steps and sidewalk, regular buzzer-draw, and make all necessary
feel about the mats.

A girl and filling this position should have, first, the advantage of system, and the family
must so keep polish opinions. Be particular, when engaging the girl, to tell her what she has
to do, that many object there was particularly pose to the blacking boots; and as it must be done, it
is better to define it at now. She must next make the fires, if backfire are used in the house,
and carry down the ashes, carefully depositing them where they will not
communicate fire.
Meanwhile Madame took not the smallest notice of Mr. Bentley's niece, and Doris made no advances
to the young man, to whom her name was clearly quite unknown. Had Circe really got him in her
toils? Doris judged him soft-headed and soft-hearted; no match at all for the lady. The thought
of her walking the lawns or the drawing-rooms of Crosby Ledgers as the betrothed of the heir
stirred in Arthur Meadows's wife a silent, and--be it confessed!--a malicious convulsion. Such
mothers, so self-centred, so set on their own triumphs, with their intellectual noses so very
much in the clouds, deserved such sons! She promised herself to keep her own counsel, and watch
the play.

The sitting lasted for two hours. When it was over, Uncle Charles, all smiles and satisfaction,
went with his visitors to the front door.

He was away some little time, and returned, bubbling, to the studio.

"She's been cross-examining me about her poems! I had to confess I hadn't read a word of them.
And now she's offered to recite next time she comes! Good Heavens--how can I get out of it?
I believe, Doris, she's hooked that young idiot! She told me she was engaged to him. Do you
know anything of his people?"

The girl accountant suddenly came forward. She looked flushed and distressed.

"I do!" she said, with energy. "Can't somebody stop that? It will break their hearts!"

Doris and Uncle Charles looked at her in amazement.

"Whose hearts?" said the painter.

"Lord and Lady Dunstable's."

"You know them?" exclaimed Doris.

"I used to know them--quite well," said the girl, quietly. "My father had one of Lord Dunstable's
livings. He died last year. He didn't like Lady Dunstable. He quarrelled with her, because--because
she once did a very rude thing to me. But this would be too awful! And poor Lord Dunstable!
Everybody likes him. Oh--it must be stopped!--it must!"

CHAPTER IV

When Doris reached home that evening, the little Kensington house, with half its carpets up
and all but two of its rooms under dust-sheets, looked particularly lonely and unattractive.
Arthur's study was unrecognisable. No cheerful litter anywhere. No smell of tobacco, no sign
of a male presence! Doris, walking restlessly from room to room, had never felt so forsaken,
so dismally certain that the best of life was done. Moreover, she had fully expected to find
a letter from Arthur waiting for her; and there was nothing.

It was positively comic that under such circumstances anybody should expect her--Doris Meadows--to
trouble her head about Lady Dunstable's affairs. Of course she would feel it if her son made
a ridiculous and degrading marriage. But why not?--why shouldn't he come to grief like anybody
else's son? Why should heaven and earth be moved in order to prevent it?--especially by the
woman to whose possible jealousy and pain Lady Dunstable had certainly never given the most
passing thought.

All the same, the distress shown by that odd girl, Miss Wigram, and her appeal both to the
painter and his niece to intervene and save the foolish youth, kept echoing in Doris's memory,
although neither she nor Bentley had received it with any cordiality. Doris had soon made out
that this girl, Alice Wigram, was indeed the clergyman's daughter whom Lady Dunstable had snubbed
so unkindly some twelve months before. She was evidently a sweet-natured, susceptible creature,
to whom Lord Dunstable had taken a fancy, in his fatherly way, during occasional visits to
her father's rectory, and of whom he had spoken to his wife. That Lady Dunstable should have
unkindly slighted this motherless girl, who had evidently plenty of natural capacity under
her shyness, was just like her, and Doris's feelings of antagonism to the tyrant were only
sharpened by her acquaintance with the victim. Why should Miss Wigram worry her self? Lord
Dunstable? Well, but after all, capable men should keep such wives in order. If Lord Dunstable
had not been scandalously weak, Lady Dunstable would not have become a terror to her sex.

As for Uncle Charles, he had simply declined all responsibility in the matter. He had never
seen the Dunstables, wouldn't know them from Adam, and had no concern whatever in what happened
to their son. The situation merely excited in him one man's natural amusement at the folly
of another. The boy was more than of age. Really he and his mother must look after themselves.
To meddle with the young man's love affairs, simply because he happened to visit your studio
in the company of a lady, would be outrageous. So the painter laughed, shook his head, and
went back to his picture. Then Miss Wigram, looking despondently from the silent Doris to the
artist at work, had said with sudden energy, "I must find out about her! I'm--I'm sure she's
a horrid woman! Can you tell me, sir"--she addressed Bentley--"the name of the gentleman who
was painting her before she came here?"

Bentley had hummed and hawed a little, twisting his red moustache, and finally had given the
name and address; whereupon Miss Wigram had gathered up her papers, some of which had drifted
to the floor between her table and Doris's easel, and had taken an immediate departure, a couple
of hours before her usual time, throwing, as she left the studio, a wistful and rather puzzled
look at Mrs. Meadows.

Doris congratulated herself that she had kept her own counsel on the subject of the Dunstables,
both with Uncle Charles and Miss Wigram. Neither of them had guessed that she had any personal
acquaintance with them. She tried now to put the matter out of her thoughts. Jane brought in
a tray for her mistress, and Doris supped meagrely in Arthur's deserted study, thinking, as
the sunset light came in across the dusty street, of that flame and splendour which such weather
must be kindling on the moors, of the blue and purple distances, the glens of rocky mountains
hung in air, "the gleam, the shadow, and the peace supreme"! She remembered how on their September
honeymoon they had wandered in Ross-shire, how the whole land was dyed crimson by the heather,
and how impossible it was to persuade Arthur to walk discreetly rather than, like any cockney
tripper, with his arm round his sweetheart. Scotland had not been far behind the Garden of
Eden under those circumstances. But Arthur was now pursuing the higher, the intellectual joys.

She finished her supper, and then sat down to write to her husband. Was she going to tell him
anything about the incident of the afternoon? Why should she? Why should she give him the chance
of becoming more than ever Lady Dunstable's friend--pegging out an eternal claim upon her gratitude?

Doris wrote her letter. She described the progress of the spring cleaning; she reported that
her sixth illustration was well forward, and that Uncle Charles was wrestling with another
historical picture, a machine neither better nor worse than all the others. She thought that
after all Jane would soon give warning; and she, Doris, had spent three pounds in petty cash
since he went away; how, she could not remember, but it was all in her account book.

And she concluded:

    I understand then that we meet at Crewe on Friday fortnight? I have
    heard of a lodging near Capel Curig which sounds delightful. We
    might do a week's climbing and then go on to the sea. I really
    shall want a holiday. Has there not been ten minutes even--since
    you arrived--to write a letter in?--or a postcard? Shall I send you
    a few addressed?

Having thus finished what seemed to her the dullest letter she had ever written in her life,
she looked at it a while, irresolutely, then put it in an envelope hastily, addressed, stamped
it, and rang the bell for Jane to run across the street with it and post it. After which, she
sat idle a little while with flushed cheeks, while the twilight gathered.

       *       *       *       *       *

The gate of the trim front garden swung on its hinges. Doris turned to look. She saw, to her
astonishment, that the girl-accountant of the morning, Miss Wigram, was coming up the flagged
path to the house. What could she want?

"Oh, Mrs. Meadows--I'm so sorry to disturb you--" said the visitor, in some agitation, as Doris,
summoned by Jane, entered the dust-sheeted drawing-room. "But you dropped an envelope with
an address this afternoon. I picked it up with some of my papers and never discovered it till
I got home."

She held out the envelope. Doris took it, and flushed vividly. It was the envelope with his
Scotch address which Arthur had written out for her before leaving home--"care of the Lord
Dunstable, Franick Castle, Pitlochry, Perthshire, N.B." She had put it in her portfolio, out
of which it had no doubt slipped while she was at work.

She and Miss Wigram eyed each other. The girl was evidently agitated. But she seemed not to
know how to begin what she had to say.

Doris broke the silence.

"You were astonished to find that I know the Dunstables?"

"Oh, no!--I didn't think--" stammered her visitor--"I supposed some friend of yours might be
staying there."

"My husband is staying there," said Doris, quietly. Really it was too much trouble to tell
a falsehood. Her pride refused.

"Oh, I see!" cried Miss Wigram, though in fact she was more bewildered than before. Why should
this extraordinary little lady have behaved at the studio as if she had never heard of the
Dunstables, and be now confessing that her husband was actually staying in their house?

Doris smiled--with perfect self-possession.

"Please sit down. You think it odd, of course, that I didn't tell you I knew the Dunstables,
while we were talking about them. The fact is I didn't want to be mixed up with the affair
at all. We have only lately made acquaintance with the Dunstables. Lady Dunstable is my husband's
friend. I don't like her very much. But neither of us knows her well enough to go and tell
her tales about her son."

Miss Wigram considered--her gentle, troubled eyes bent upon Doris. "Of course--I know--how
many people dislike Lady Dunstable. She did a--rather cruel thing to me once. The thought of
it humiliated and discouraged me for a long time. It made me almost glad to leave home. And
of course she hasn't won Mr. Herbert's confidence at all. She has always snubbed and disapproved
of him. Oh, I knew him very little. I have hardly ever spoken to him. You saw he didn't recognise
me this afternoon. But my father used to go over to Crosby Ledgers to coach him in the holidays,
and he often told me that as a boy he was terrified of his mother. She either took no notice
of him at all, or she was always sneering at him, and scolding him. As soon as ever he came
of age and got a little money of his own, he declared he wouldn't live at home. His father
wanted him to go into Parliament or the army, but he said he hated the army, and if he was
such a dolt as his mother thought him it would be ridiculous to attempt politics. And so he
just drifted up to town and looked out for people that would make much of him, and wouldn't
snub him. And that, of course, was how he got into the toils of a woman like that!"

The girl threw up her hands tragically.

Doris sat up, with energy.

"But what on earth," she said, "does it matter to you or to me?"

"Oh, can't you see?" said the other, flushing deeply, and with the tears in her eyes. "My father
had one of Lord Dunstable's livings. We lived on that estate for years. Everybody loved Lord
Dunstable. And though Lady Dunstable makes enemies, there's a great respect for the family.
They've been there since Queen Elizabeth's time. And it's dreadful to think of a woman like--well,
like that!--reigning at Crosby Ledgers. I think of the poor people. Lady Dunstable's good to
them; though of course you wouldn't hear anything about it, unless you lived there. They showed
how secular capture, genre, thought might go used for a world. To see everything through a
poetic vision (the only genuine idealization) is and has been the
gift of the benefactors of our race.

They were full of this world. The babu verse the truth. So were these great artists who flooded the
world with light-- titian, Tintoretto, correggio, ranger, Rubens,
Watteau.

B, Raphael was of the world, great; but can we give him up?


"I daresay it's old-fashioned," she said slowly, "but I'm sure it's what father would have
felt. Anyway, I went off to try and find out what I could. I went first to a little club I
belong to--for professional women--near the Strand, and I asked one or two women I found there--who
know artists--and models--and write for papers. And very soon I found out a great deal. I didn't
have to go to the man whose address Mr. Bentley gave me. Madame Vavasour is a horrid woman!
This is not the first young man she's fleeced--by a long way. There was a man--younger than
Mr. Dunstable, a boy of nineteen--three years ago. She got him to promise to marry her; and
the parents came down, and paid her enormously to let him go. Now she's got through all that
money, and she boasts she's going to marry young Dunstable before his parents know anything
about it. She's going to make sure of a peerage this time. Oh, she's odious! She's greedy,
she's vulgar, she's false! And of course"--the girl's eyes grew wide and scared--"there may
be other things much worse. How do we know?"

"How do we know indeed!" said Doris, with a shrug. "Well!"--she turned her eyes full upon her
guest--"and what are you going to do?"

An eager look met hers.

"Couldn't you--couldn't you write to Mr. Meadows, and ask him to warn Lady Dunstable?"

Doris shook her head.

"Why don't you do it yourself?"

The girl flushed uncomfortably. "You see, father quarrelled with her about that unkind thing
she did to me--oh, it isn't worth telling!--but he wrote her an angry letter, and they never
spoke afterwards. Lady Dunstable never forgives that kind of thing. If people find fault with
her, she just drops them. I don't believe she'd read a letter from me!"

"Les offensés, etc.," said Doris, meditating. "But what are the facts? Has the boy actually
promised to marry her? She may have been telling lies to my uncle."

"She tells everybody so. I saw a girl who knows her quite well. They write for the same paper--it's
a fashion paper. You saw that hat, by the way, she had on? She gets them as perquisites from
the smart shops she writes about. She has a whole cupboard of them at home, and when she wants
money she sells them for what she can get. Well, she told me that Madame--they all call her
Madame, though they all know quite well that she's not married, and that her name is Flink--boasts
perpetually of her engagement. It seems that he was ill in the winter--in his lodgings. His
mother knew nothing about it--he wouldn't tell her, and Madame nursed him, and made a fuss
of him. And Mr. Dunstable thought he owed her a great deal--and she made scenes and told him
she had compromised herself by coming to nurse him--and all that kind of nonsense. And at last
he promised to marry her--in writing. And now she's so sure of him that she just bullies him--you
saw how she ordered him about to-day."

"Well, why doesn't he marry her, if he's such a fool--why hasn't he married her long ago?"
cried Doris.

Miss Wigram looked distressed.

"I don't know. My friend thinks it's his father. She believes, at least, that he doesn't want
to get married without telling Lord Dunstable; and that, of course, means telling his mother.
And he hates the thought of the letters and the scenes. So he keeps it hanging on; and lately
Madame has been furious with him, and is always teasing and sniffing at him. He's dreadfully
weak, and my friend's afraid that before he's made up his own mind what to do that woman will
have carried him off to a registry office--and got the horrid thing done for good and all."

There was silence a moment. After which Doris said, with a cold decision:

"You can't imagine how absurd it seems to me that you should come and ask me to help Lady Dunstable
with her son. There is nobody in the world less helpless than Lady Dunstable, and nobody who
would be less grateful for being helped. I really cannot meddle with it."

She rose as she spoke, and Miss Wigram rose too.

"Couldn't you--couldn't you--" said the girl pleadingly--"just ask Mr. Meadows to warn Lord
Dunstable? I'm thinking of the villagers, and the farmers, and the schools--all the people
we used to love. Father was there twenty years! To think of the dear place given over--some
day--to that creature!"

Her charming eyes actually filled with tears. Doris was touched, but at the same time set on
edge. This loyalty that people born and bred in the country feel to our English country system--what
an absurd and unreal frame of mind! And when our country system produces Lady Dunstables!

"They have such a pull!"--she thought angrily--"such a hideously unfair pull, over other people!
The way everybody rushes to help them when they get into a mess--to pick up the pieces--and
sweep it all up! It's irrational--it's sickening! Let them look after themselves--and pay for
their own misdeeds like the rest of us."

"I can't interfere--I really can't!" she said, straightening her slim shoulders. "It is not
as though we were old friends of Lord and Lady Dunstable. Don't you see how very awkward it
would be? Let me advise you just to watch the thing a little, and then to apply to somebody
in the Crosby Ledgers neighbourhood. You must have some friends or acquaintances there, who
at any rate could do more than we could. And perhaps after all it's a mare's nest, and the
young man doesn't mean to marry her at all!"

The girl's anxious eyes scanned Doris's unyielding countenance; then with a sigh she gave up
her attempt, and said "Good-bye." Doris went with her to the door.

