And fine old fellows they were if we can believe the historians of the seventeenth century:
"Wearing the falchion and the rapier, the cloth coat lined with plush and embroidered belt,
the gold hat-band and the feathers, silk stockings and garters, besides signet rings and other
jewels; wainscoting the walls of their principal rooms in black oak and loading their sideboards
with a deal of rich and massive silver plate upon which was carved the arms of their ancestors;--drinking,
too, strong punch and sack from 'silver sack-cups'--(sack being their favorite)--and feasting
upon oysters and the most delicious of all the ducks of the world."

And in none of their other distinguishing qualities was their descendant lacking. In the very
lift of his head and brace of his shoulders; in the grace and ease with which he crossed the
room, one could see at a glance something of the dash and often the repose of the cavalier
from whom he had sprung. And the sympathy, kindness, and courtesy of the man that showed in
every glance of his eye and every movement of his body--despite his occasional explosive temper--a
sympathy that drifted in to an ungovernable impulse to divide everything he owned into two
parts, and his own half into two once more if the other fellow needed it; a kindness that made
every man his friend, and a courtesy which, even in a time when men lifted their hats to men,
as well as to women, had gained for him, the town over, the soubriquet of "Gentleman George";
while to every young girl and youth under twenty he was just "dear Uncle George"--the one man
in all Kennedy Square who held their secrets.

But to our breakfast once more. All four dogs were on their feet now, their tails wagging expectantly,
their noses at each of his knees, where they were regaled at regular intervals with choice
bits from his plate, the snapping of their solemn jaws expressing their thanks. A second scallop-shell
was next lifted from the hearth with the tongs, and deposited sizzling hot on a plate beside
the master, the aroma of the oysters filling the room. These having disappeared, as had the
former one, together with the waffles and coffee, and the master's appetite being now on the
wane, general conversation became possible.

"Did Mr. Rutter look ill, Todd?" he continued, picking up the thread of the talk where he had
left it. "He wasn't very well when I left."

"No, sah,--neber see him look better. Been up a li'l' late I reckon,--Marse Harry mos' gen'ally
is a li'l' mite late, sah--" Todd chuckled. "But dat ain't nuthin' to dese gemmans. But he
sho' do wanter see ye. Maybe he stayed all night at Mister Seymour's. If he did an' he yered
de rumpus dese rapscallions kicked up--yes--dat's you I'm talkin' to"--and he looked toward
the dogs--"he'll be roun' yere 'fo' ye gits fru yo' bre'kfus'. Dey do say as how Marse Harry's
mighty sweet in dat quarter. Mister Langdon Willits's snoopin' roun' too, but Miss Kate ain't
got no use fer him. He ain't quality dey say."

His master let him run on; Aunt Jemima was Todd's only outlet during his master's absence,
and as this was sometimes clogged by an uplifted broom, he made the best use he could of the
opportunities when he and his master were alone. When "comp'ny" were present he was as close-mouthed
as a clam and as noiseless as a crab.

"Who told you all this gossip, Todd?" exclaimed St. George with a smile, laying down his knife
and fork.

"Ain't nary one tol' me--ain't no use bein' tol'. All ye got to do is to keep yo' eyes open.
Be a weddin' dar 'fo' spring. Look out, sah--dat shell's still a-sizzlin'. Mo' coffee, sah?
Wait till I gits some hot waffles--won't take a minute!" and he was out of the room and downstairs
before his master could answer.

Hardly had he slammed the kitchen door behind him when the clatter and stamp of a horse's hoofs
were heard Outside, followed by an impatient rat-a-tat-tat on the knocker.

The boy dropped his dishes: "Fo' Gawd, dat's Mister Harry!" he cried as he started on a run
for the door. "Don't nobody bang de do' down like dat but him."

A slender, thoroughly graceful young fellow of twenty-one or two, booted and spurred, his dark
eyes flashing, his face tingling with the sting of the early morning air, dashed past the obsequious
darky and burst into Temple's presence with the rush of a north-west breeze. He had ridden
ten miles since he vaulted into the saddle, had never drawn rein uphill or down, and neither
he nor the thoroughbred pawing the mud outside had turned a hair.

"Hello, Uncle George!" Temple, as has been said, was Uncle George to every girl and youth in
Kennedy Square.

"Why, Harry!" He had sprung from his seat, napkin in hand and had him by both shoulders, looking
into his eyes as if he wanted to hug him, and would the first thing he knew. "Where are you
from--Moorlands? What a rollicking chap you are, and you look so well and handsome, you dog!
And now tell me of your dear mother and your father. But first down with you--here--right opposite--always
your place, my dear Harry. Beginning of the shore on each side of what the beaver house, the Indians
cut two channels of the ice in the foot wide, and so upper that they said from six feet about
front in the house. Thus the ice was cut out about ten feet further into the pond then in front of the
house. The capital letter Y will give a converging idea of a cuttings directly made. The correct
two lines are the ones in the shore of the side at each beaver house;
the wider and lower walk on the letter correspond the channel cut about
front.

"That's what you said of that horse you bought of Hampson--ran away, didn't he?" persisted
his host, his eyes on the mare, which had now become quiet.

"Yes, and broke his leg. But Spitfire's all right--she'll stand. Where will I sit--here? And
now what kind of a time did you have, and who were with you?"

"Clayton, Doctor Teackle, and the judge."

"And how many ducks did you get?" and he dropped into his chair.

"Twenty-one," answered St. George, dry-washing his white shapely hands, as he took his seat--a
habit of his when greatly pleased.

"All canvas-backs?"

"No--five redheads and a mallard."

"Where did you put up?" echoed Harry, loosening his riding-jacket to give his knife and fork
freer play.

"I spent a week at Tom Coston's and a week at Craddock. Another lump of sugar, Todd."

The boy laughed gently: "Lazy Tom's?"

"Lazy Tom's--and the best-hearted fellow in the world. They're going to make him a judge, they
say and--"

"--What of--peach brandy? No cream in mine, Todd."

"No--you scurrilous dog--of the Common Court," retorted St. George, looking at him over the
top of his cup. "Very good lawyer is Tom--got horse sense and can speak the truth--make a very
good judge."

Again Harry laughed--rather a forced laugh this time, as if he were trying to make himself
agreeable but with so anxious a ring through it that Todd busied himself about the table before
going below for fresh supplies, making excuse of collecting the used dishes. If there were
to be any revelations concerning the situation at the Seymour house, he did not intend to miss
any part of them.

"Better put Mrs. Coston on the bench and set Tom to rocking the cradle," said the young man,
reaching for the plate of corn pone. "She's a thoroughbred if ever I saw one, and does credit
to her blood. But go on--tell me about the birds. Are they flying high?--and the duck blinds;
have they fixed them up? They were all going to pot when I was there last."

"Birds out of range, most of them--hard work getting what I did. As to the blinds, they are
still half full of water--got soaking wet trying to use one. I shot most of mine from the boat
just as the day broke," and then followed a full account of what the party had bagged, with
details of every day's adventures. This done, St. George pushed back his chair and faced the
young man.

"And now you take the witness-stand, sir--look me in the eyes, put your hand on your fob-pocket
and tell me the truth. Todd says you have been here every day for a week looking as if you
had lost your last fip-penny-bit and wild to see me. What has happened?"

"Todd has a vivid imagination." He turned in his seat, stretched out his hand, and catching
one of the dogs by the nose rubbed his head vigorously.

"Go on--all of it--no dodging the king's counsellor. What's the matter?"

The young man glanced furtively at Todd, grabbed another dog, rubbed their two ears together
in play, and in a lowered voice, through which a tinge of sadness was only too apparent, murmured:

"Miss Kate--we've had a falling out."

St. George lowered his head suddenly and gave a low whistle:--"Falling out?--what about?"

Again young Rutter glanced at Todd, whose back was turned, but whose ears were stretched to
splitting point. His host nodded understandingly.

"There, Todd--that will do; now go down and get your breakfast. No more waffles, tell Aunt
Jemima. Bring the pipes over here and throw on another log... that's right." A great sputtering
of sparks followed--a spider-legged, mahogany table was wheeled into place, and the dejected
darky left the room for the regions below.

"So you two have had a quarrel! Oh, Harry!--when will you learn to think twice before you speak?
Whose fault was it?" sighed St. George, filling the bowl of his pipe with his slender fingers,
slowly tucking in each shred and grain.

"Mine."

"What did you say?" (Puff-puff.)

"Nothing--I couldn't. She came in and saw it all." The boy had his elbows on the table now,
his cheeks sunk in his hands.

St. George looked up: "Drunk, were you?"

"Yes."

"Where?"

"At Mrs. Cheston's ball last week."

"Have you seen her since?"

"No--she won't let me come near her. Mr. Seymour passed me yesterday and hardly spoke to me."

St. George canted his chair and zigzagged it toward the blazing hearth; then he said thoughtfully,
without looking at the young man:

"Well, this is a pretty kettle of fish! Have you told your father?"

"No--he wouldn't understand."

"And I know you didn't tell your mother." This came with the tone of positive conviction.

"No--and don't you. Mother is daft on the subject. If she had her way, father would never put
a drop of wine on the table. She says it is ruining the county--but that's mother's way."

St. George stooped over, fondled one of the dogs for a moment--two had followed Todd out of
the room--settled back in his chair again, and still looking into the fire, said slowly:

"Bad business--bad business, Harry! Kate is as proud as Lucifer and dislikes nothing on earth
so much as being made conspicuous. Tell me exactly what happened."

"Well, there isn't anything to tell," replied the young fellow, raising his head and leaning
back in his chair, his face the picture of despair. "We were all in the library and the place
was boiling-hot, and they had two big bowls, one full of eggnog and the other full of apple-toddy:
and the next thing I knew I was out in the hall and met Kate on the stairs. She gave a little
smothered scream, and moaned--'Oh, Harry!--and you promised me!'--and then she put her hands
to her face, as if to shut me out of her sight. That sobered me somewhat, and after I got out
on the porch into the night air and had pulled myself together, I tried to find her and apologize,
but she had gone home, although the ball wasn't half over.

"Then this was not the first time?" He was still at the hot coals, both hands outfanned, to
screen his face from the blaze.

"No--I'm sorry to say it wasn't. I told her I would never fail her again, and she forgave me,
but I don't know what she'll do now. She never forgives anybody who breaks his word--she's
very queer about it. That's what I came to see you about. I haven't slept much nights, thinking
it over, and so I had the mare saddled, as soon as it got light, hoping you would be home.
Todd thought you might be--he saw Dr. Teackle's Joe, who said you were all coming to-day."

Again there was a long pause, during which Temple continued to study the coals through his
open fingers, the young man sitting hunched up in his chair, his handsome head dropped between
his shoulders, his glossy chestnut hair, a-frouze with his morning ride, fringing his collar
behind.

"Harry," said St. George, knocking the ashes slowly from his pipe on the edge of the fender,
and turning his face for the first time toward him,--"didn't I hear something before I went
away about a ball at your father's--or a dance--or something, when your engagement was to be
announced?"

The boy nodded.

"And was it not to be something out of the ordinary?" he continued, looking at the boy from
under his eyelids--"Teackle certainly told me so--said that your mother had already begun to
get the house in order--"

Again Harry nodded--as if he had been listening to an indictment, every word of which he knew
was true.

St. George roused himself and faced his guest: "And yet you took this time, Harry, to--"

The boy threw up both hands in protest:

"Don't!--DON'T! Uncle George! It's the ball that makes it all the worse. That's why I've got
no time to lose; that's why I've haunted this place waiting for you to get back. Mother will
be heart-broken if she finds out and I don't know what father would do."

St. George laid his empty pipe on the table and straightened his body in the chair until his
broad shoulders filled the back. Then his brow darkened; his indignation was getting the better
of him.

"I don't know what has come over you young fellows, Harry!" he at last broke out, his eyes
searching the boy's. "You don't seem to know how to live. You've got to pull a shoat out of
a trough to keep it from overeating itself, but you shouldn't be obliged to pull a gentleman
away from his glass. Good wine is good food and should be treated as such. My cellar is stocked
with old Madeira--some port--some fine sherries--so is your father's. Have you ever seen him
abuse them?--have you ever seen Mr. Horn or Mr. Kennedy, or any of our gentlemen around here,
abuse them? It's scandalous, Harry! damnable! I love you, my son--love you in a way you know
nothing of, but you've got to stop this sort of thing right off. And so have these young roysterers
you associate with. It's getting worse every day. I don't wonder your dear mother feels about
it as she does. But she's always been that way, and she's always been right about it, too,
although I didn't use to think so." This last came with a lowered voice and a deep, indrawn
sigh, and for the moment checked the flow of his wrath.

Harry hung his head still lower, but he did not attempt to defend himself.

"Who else were making vulgarians of themselves at Mrs. Cheston's?" St. George continued in
a calmer tone, stretching his shapely legs until the soles of his shoes touched the fender.

"Mark Gilbert, Tom Murdoch, Langdon Willits, and--"

"Willits, eh?--Well, I should expect it of Willits. He wasn't born a gentleman--that is, his
grandfather wasn't a gentleman--married his overseer's daughter, if I remember right:--but
you come of the best blood in the State,--egad!--none better! You have something to maintain--some
standard to keep up. A Rutter should never be found guilty of anything that would degrade his
name. You seem to forget that--you--damn me, Harry!--when I think of it all--and of Kate--my
sweet, lovely Kate,--and how you have made her suffer--for she loves you--no question of that--I
feel like wringing your neck! What the devil do you mean, Sir?" He was up on his feet now,
pacing the room, the dogs following his every movement with their brown agate eyes, their soft,
silky ears straightening and falling.

So far the young fellow had not moved nor had he offered a word in defence. He knew his Uncle
George--better let him blow it all out, then the two could come together. At last he said in
a contrite tone--his hands upraised:

"Don't scold me, Uncle George. I've scolded myself enough--just say something to help me. I
can't give Kate up--I'd sooner die. I've always made a fool of myself--maybe I'll quit doing
it after this. Tell me how I can straighten this out. This is especially the case when they are employed
as the canoemen or dog-drivers. They are so watchful and watchful and faithful until everything
should go right, that upstairs white men have answered for weeks seldom with several of the
red in their employ, without yet having once answered one of them
is asleep.

They together found of lying down until anxious after their employers have gone to his sleep, and then
they are up long before them in the mornings. And ever how few there are who have given these quiet
and long of comrades or servants their due meed of praise!

To the music of few whispered words of the men, as they quickly attended to the work of packing
up the sleds, Mr Ross and the boys actively he fell into dreamless
slumber.

"I reckon it's because you're twenty, Harry, I forgot that. Hot blood--hot temper,--madcap
dare-devil that you are--not a grain of common-sense. But what can you expect?--I was just
like you at your age. Come, now, what shall we do first?"

The young fellow rose and a smile of intense relief crept over his face. He had had many such
overhaulings from his uncle, and always with this ending. Whenever St. George let out one of
those big, spontaneous, bubbling laughs straight from his heart, the trouble, no matter how
serious, was over. What some men gained by anger and invective St. George gained by good humor,
ranging from the faint smile of toleration to the roar of merriment. One reason why he had
so few enemies--none, practically--was that he could invariably disarm an adversary with a
laugh. It was a fine old blade that he wielded; only a few times in his life had he been called
upon to use any other--when some under-dog was maltreated, or his own good name or that of
a friend was traduced, or some wrong had to be righted--then his face would become as hot steel
and there would belch out a flame of denunciation that would scorch and blind in its intensity.
None of these fiercer moods did the boy know;--what he knew was his uncle's merry side--his
sympathetic, loving side,--and so, following up his advantage, he strode across the room, settled
down on the arm of his uncle's chair, and put his arm about his shoulders.

"Won't you go and see her, please?" he pleaded, patting his back, affectionately.

"What good will that do? Hand me a match, Harry."

"Everything--that's what I came for."

"Not with Kate! She isn't a child--she's a woman," he echoed back between the puffs, his indignation
again on the rise. "And she is different from the girls about here," he added, tossing the
burned match in the fire. "When she once makes up her mind it stays made up."

"Don't let her make it up! Go and see her and tell her how I love her and how miserable I am.
Tell her I'll never break another promise to her as long as I live. Nobody ever holds out against
you. Please, Uncle George! I'll never come to you for anything else in the world if you'll
help me this time. And I won't drink another drop of anything you don't want me to drink--I
don't care what father or anybody else says. Oh, you've GOT to go to her!--I can't stand it
any longer! Every time I think of Kate hidden away over there where I can't get at her, it
drives me wild. I wouldn't ask you to go if I could go myself and talk it out with her--but
she won't let me near her--I've tried, and tried; and Ben says she isn't at home, and knows
he lies when he says it! You will go, won't you?"

The smoke from his uncle's pipe was coming freer now--most of it escaping up the throat of
the chimney with a gentle swoop.

"When do you want me to go?" He had already surrendered. When had he ever held out when a love
affair was to be patched up?

"Now, right away."

"No,--I'll go to-night,--she will be at home then," he said at last, as if he had just made
up his mind, the pipe having helped--"and do you come in about nine and--let me know when you
are there, or--better still, wait in the hall until I come for you."

"But couldn't I steal in while you are talking?"

"No--you do just as I tell you. Not a sound out of you, remember, until I call you."

"But how am I to know? She might go out the other door and--"

"You'll know when I come for you."

"And you think it will be all right, don't you?" he pleaded. "You'll tell her what an awful
time I've had, won't you, Uncle George?"

"Yes, every word of it."

"And that I haven't slept a wink since--"

"Yes--and that you are going to drown yourself and blow your head off and swallow poison. Now
off with you and let me think how I am to begin straightening out this idiotic mess. Nine o'clock,
remember, and in the hall until I come for you."

"Yes--nine o'clock! Oh!--you good Uncle George! I'll never forget you for it," and with a grasp
of St. George's hand and another outpouring of gratitude, the young fellow swung wide the door,
clattered down the steps, threw his leg over Spitfire, and dashed up the street.

CHAPTER II

If Kate's ancestors had wasted any part of their substance in too lavish a hospitality, after
the manner of the spendthrift whose extravagances were recounted in the preceding chapter,
there was nothing to indicate it in the home of their descendants. No loose shutters, crumbling
chimneys, or blistered woodwork defaced the Seymour mansion:--the touch of the restorer was
too apparent. No sooner did a shutter sag or a hinge give way than away it went to the carpenter
or the blacksmith; no sooner did a banister wabble, or a table crack, or an andiron lose a
leg, than up came somebody with a kit, or a bag, or a box of tools, and they were as good as
new before you could wink your eye. Indeed, so great was the desire to keep things up that
it was only necessary (so a wag said) to scratch a match on old Seymour's front door to have
its panels repainted the next morning.

And then its seclusion:--while its neighbors--the Temple mansion among them--had been placed
boldly out to the full building line where they could see and be seen, the Seymours, with that
spirit of aloofness which had marked the family for generations, had set their dwelling back
ten paces, thrown up a hedge of sweet-smelling box to screen the inmates from the gaze of passers-by,
planted three or four big trees as protection for the upper windows, and, to insure still greater
privacy, had put up a swinging wooden gate, kept shut by a ball and chain, its clang announcing
the entrance of each and every visitor.

And this same spirit was manifest the moment you stepped into the wide hall, glanced at the
old family portraits marching steadily, one after another, up the side of the spacious stairs
(revarnished every other year)--entered the great drawing-room hung with yellow satin and decorated
with quaint mirrors, and took a scat in one of the all-embracing arm-chairs, there to await
the arrival of either the master of the house or his charming daughter.

If it were the master to whom you wished to pay your respects, one glance at the Honorable
Howard Douglass Seymour would have convinced you that he was precisely the kind of man who
should have had charge of so well-ordered a home: so well brushed was he--so clean-shaven--so
immaculately upholstered--the two points of his collar pinching his cheeks at the same precise
angle; his faultless black stock fitting to perfection, the lapels of his high-rolled coat
matching exactly. And then the correct parting of the thin gray hair and the two little gray
brush-tails of lovelocks that were combed in front of his ears, there to become a part of the
two little dabs of gray whiskers that stretched from his temples to his bleached cheekbones.
Yes--a most carefully preserved, prim, and well-ordered person was Kate's father.

As to the great man's career, apart from his service in the legislature, which won him his
title, there was no other act of his life which marked him apart from his fellows. Suffice
it to say that he was born a gentleman without a penny to his name; that he married Kate's
mother when she was twenty and he forty (and here is another story, and a sad one)--she the
belle of her time--and sole heir to the estate of her grandfather, Captain Hugh Barkeley, the
rich ship-owner--and that the alliance had made him a gentleman of unlimited leisure, she,
at her death, having left all her property to her daughter Kate, with the Honorable Prim as
custodian.

And this trust, to his credit be it said--for Seymour was of Scotch descent, a point in his
favor with old Captain Barkeley, who was Scotch on his mother's side, and, therefore, somewhat
canny--was most religiously kept, he living within his ample means--or Kate's, which was the
same thing--discharging the duties of father, citizen, and friend, with the regularity of a
clock--so many hours with his daughter, so many hours at his club, so many hours at his office;
the intermediate minutes being given over to resting, dressing, breakfasting, dining, sleeping,
and no doubt praying; the precise moment that marked the beginning and ending of each task
having been fixed years in advance by this most exemplary, highly respectable, and utterly
colorless old gentleman of sixty.

That this dry shell of a man could be the father of our spontaneous lovely Kate was one of
the things that none of the younger people around Kennedy Square could understand--but then
few of them had known her beautiful mother with her proud step and flashing eyes.

But it is not the punctilious, methodical Prim whom St. George wishes to see to-night; nor
does he go through any of the formalities customary to the house. There is no waiting until
old Ben, the family butler in snuff-colored coat and silver buttons, shuffles upstairs or into
the library, or wherever the inmates were to be found, there to announce "Massa George Temple." When
this was done everybody able to an axe was soon home of t of long
trees at poles not less than four inches in diameter, and so small
that when well have driven in the mud the tops would still be considerably
above the ice. He simply swung back the
gate until the old chain and ball, shocked at his familiarity, rattled itself into a rage,
strode past the neatly trimmed, fragrant box, pushed open the door--no front door was ever
locked in the daytime in Kennedy Square, and few at night--and halting at the bottom step,
called up the silent stairs in a voice that was a joyous greeting in itself:

"Kate, you darling! come down as quick as your dear little feet will carry you! It's Uncle
George, do you hear?--or shall I come up and bring you down in my arms, you bunch of roses?
It won't be the first time." The first time was when she was a year old.

"Oh!--is that you, Uncle George? Yes,--just as soon as I do up my back hair." The voice came
from the top of the stairs--a lark's voice singing down from high up. "Father's out and--"

"Yes--I know he's out; I met him on his way to the club. Hurry now--I've got the best news
in the world for you."

"Yes--in a minute."

He knew her minutes, and how long they could be, and in his impatience roamed about the wide
hall examining the old English engravings and colored prints decorating the panels until he
heard her step overhead and looking up watched her cross the upper hall, her well-poised, aristocratic
head high in air, her full, well-rounded, blossoming body imaged in the loose embroidered scarf
wound about her sloping shoulders. Soon he caught the wealth of her blue-black hair in whose
folds her negro mammy had pinned a rose that matched the brilliancy of her cheeks, two stray
curls wandering over her neck; her broad forehead, with clearly marked eyebrows, arching black
lashes shading lustrous, slumbering eyes; and as she drew nearer, her warm red lips, exquisite
teeth, and delicate chin, and last, the little feet that played hide and seek beneath her quilted
petticoat: a tall, dark, full-blooded, handsome girl of eighteen with an air of command and
distinction tempered by a certain sweet dignity and delicious coquetry--a woman to be loved
even when she ruled and to be reverenced even when she trifled.

She had reached the floor now, and the two arm in arm, he patting her hand, she laughing beside
him, had entered the small library followed by the old butler bringing another big candelabra
newly lighted.

"It's so good of you to come," she cried, her face alight with the joy of seeing him--"and
you look so happy and well--your trip down the bay has done you a world of good. Ben says the
ducks you sent father are the best we have had this winter. Now tell me, dear Uncle George"--she
had him in one of the deep arm-chairs by this time, with a cushion behind his shoulders--"I
am dying to hear all about it."

"Don't you 'dear Uncle George' me until you've heard what I've got to say."

"But you said you had the best news in the world for me," she laughed, looking at him from
under her lashes.

"So I have."

"What is it?"

"Harry."

The girl's face clouded and her lips quivered. Then she sat bolt upright.

"I won't hear a word about him. He's broken his promise to me and I will never trust him again.
If I thought you'd come to talk about Harry, I wouldn't have come down."

St. George lay back in his chair, shrugged his shoulders, stole a look at her from beneath
his bushy eyebrows, and said with an assumed dignity, a smile playing about his lips:

"All right, off goes his head--exit the scoundrel. Much as I could do to keep him out of Jones
Falls this morning, but of course now it's all over we can let Spitfire break his neck. That's
the way a gentleman should die of love--and not be fished out of a dirty stream with his clothes
all bespattered with mud."

"But he won't die for love. He doesn't know what love means or he wouldn't behave as he does.
Do you know what really happened, Uncle George?" Her brown eyes were flashing, her cheeks aflame
with her indignation.

"Oh, I know exactly what happened. Harry told me with the tears running down his cheeks. It
was dreadful--INEXCUSABLE--BARBAROUS! I've been that way myself--tumbled half-way down these
same stairs before you were born and had to be put to bed, which accounts for the miserable
scapegrace I am to-day." His face was in a broad smile, but his voice never wavered.

Kate looked at him and put out her hand. "You never did--I won't believe a word of it."

"Ask your father, my dear. He helped carry me upstairs, and Ben pulled off my boots. Oh, it
was most disgraceful! I'm just beginning to live it down," and he reached over and patted the
girl's cheek, his hearty laugh ringing through the room.

Kate was smiling now--her Uncle George was always irresistible when he was like this.

"But Harry isn't you," she pouted.

"ISN'T ME!--why I was ten times worse! He's only twenty-one and I was twenty-five. He's got
four years the better of me in which to reform."

