Not much, however, of Kinglake's time was given to his native town: he was early sent to the
Grammar School at Ottery St. Mary's, the "Clavering" of "Pendennis," whose Dr. Wapshot was
George Coleridge, brother of the poet.  He was wont in after life to speak of this time with
bitterness; a delicate child, he was starved on insufficient diet; and an eloquent passage
in "Eothen" depicts his intellectual fall from the varied interests and expanding enthusiasm
of liberal home teaching to the regulation gerund- grinding and Procrustean discipline of school.

At Eton--under Keate, as all readers of "Eothen" know--he was contemporary with Gladstone,
Sir F. Hanmer, Lords Canning and Dalhousie, Selwyn, Shadwell.  He wrote in the "Etonian," created
and edited by Mackworth Praed; and is mentioned in Praed's poem on Surly Hall as

"Kinglake, dear to poetry, And dear to all his friends."

Dr. Gatty remembers his "determined pale face"; thinks that he made his mark on the river rather
than in the playing fields, being a good oar and swimmer.  His great friend at school was Savile,
the "Methley" of his travels, who became successively Lord Pollington and Earl of Mexborough.
The Homeric lore which Methley exhibited in the Troad, is curiously illustrated by an Eton
story, that in a pugilistic encounter with Hoseason, afterwards an Indian Cavalry officer,
while the latter sate between the rounds upon his second's knee, Savile strutted about the
ring, spouting Homer.

Kinglake entered at Trinity, Cambridge, in 1828, among an exceptionally brilliant set--Tennyson,
Arthur Hallam, John Sterling, Trench, Spedding, Spring Rice, Charles Buller, Maurice, Monckton
Milnes, J. M. Kemble, Brookfield, Thompson.  With none of them does he seem in his undergraduate
days to have been intimate. Probably then, as afterwards, he shrank from camaraderie, shared
Byron's distaste for "enthusymusy"; naturally cynical and self- contained, was repelled by
the spiritual fervour, incessant logical collision, aggressive tilting at abuses of those young
"Apostles," already

"Yearning for the large excitement that the coming years would yield, Eager-hearted as a boy
when first he leaves his father's field,"

waxing ever daily, as Sterling exhorted, "in religion and radicalism."  He saw life differently;
more practically, if more selfishly; to one rhapsodizing about the "plain living and high thinking"
of Wordsworth's sonnet, he answered:  "You know that you prefer dining with people who have
good glass and china and plenty of servants."  For Tennyson's poetry he even then felt admiration;
quotes, nay, misquotes, in "Eothen," from the little known "Timbuctoo"; {3} and from "Locksley
Hall"; and supplied long afterwards an incident adopted by Tennyson in "Enoch Arden,"

"Once likewise in the ringing of his ears Though faintly, merrily--far and far away - He heard
the pealing of his parish bells," {4}

from his own experience in the desert, when on a Sunday, amid overpowering heat and stillness,
he heard the Marlen bells of Taunton peal for morning church. {5}

In whatever set he may have lived he made his mark at Cambridge. Lord Houghton remembered him
as an orator at the Union; and speaking to Cambridge undergraduates fifty years later, after
enumerating the giants of his student days, Macaulay, Praed, Buller, Sterling, Merivale, he
goes on to say:  "there, too, were Kemble and Kinglake, the historian of our earliest civilization
and of our latest war; Kemble as interesting an individual as ever was portrayed by the dramatic
genius of his own race; Kinglake, as bold a man-at-arms in literature as ever confronted public
opinion."  We know, too, that not many years after leaving Cambridge he received, and refused,
a solicitation to stand as Liberal representative of the University in Parliament.  He was,
in fact, as far as any of his contemporaries from acquiescing in social conventionalisms and
shams.  To the end of his life he chafed at such restraint:  "when pressed to stay in country
houses," he writes in 1872, "I have had the frankness to say that I have not discipline enough."
Repeatedly he speaks with loathing of the "stale civilization," the "utter respectability,"
of European life; {6} longed with all his soul for the excitement and stir of soldiership,
from which his shortsightedness debarred him; {7} rushed off again and again into foreign travel;
set out immediately on leaving Cambridge, in 1834, for his first Eastern tour, "to fortify
himself for the business of life."  Methley joined him at Hamburg, and they travelled by Berlin,
Dresden, Prague, Vienna, to Semlin, where his book begins. Lord Pollington's health broke down,
and he remained to winter at Corfu, while Kinglake pursued his way alone, returning to England
in October, 1835. {8}  On his return he read for the Chancery Bar along with his friend Eliot
Warburton, under Bryan Procter, a Commissioner of Lunacy, better known by his poet-name, Barry
Cornwall; his acquaintance with both husband and wife ripening into life-long friendship. 
Mrs. Procter is the "Lady of Bitterness," cited in the "Eothen" Preface.  As Anne Skepper,
before her marriage, she was much admired by Carlyle; "a brisk witty prettyish clear eyed sharp
tongued young lady"; and was the intimate, among many, especially of Thackeray and Browning.
That two persons so strongly resembling each other in capacity for rival exhibition, or for
mutual exasperation, should have maintained so firm a friendship, often surprised their acquaintance;
she explained it by saying that she and Kinglake sharpened one another like two knives; that,
in the words of Petruchio,

"Where two raging fires meet together, They do consume the thing that feeds their fury."

Crabb Robinson, stung by her in a tender place, his boastful iterative monologues on Weimar
and on Goethe, said that of all men Procter ought to escape purgatory after death, having tasted
its fulness here through living so many years with Mrs. Procter; "the husbands of the talkative
have great reward hereafter," said Rudyard Kipling's Lama.  And I have been told by those who
knew the pair that there was truth as well as irritation in the taunt.  "A graceful Preface
to 'Eothen,'" wrote to me a now famous lady who as a girl had known Mrs. Procter well, "made
friendly company yesterday to a lonely meal, and brought back memories of Mr. Kinglake's kind
spoiling of a raw young woman, and of the wit, the egregious vanity, the coarseness, the kindness,
of that hard old worldling our Lady of Bitterness."  In the presence of one man, Tennyson,
she laid aside her shrewishness:  "talking with Alfred Tennyson lifts me out of the earth earthy;
a visit to Farringford is like a retreat to the religious."  A celebrity in London for fifty
years, she died, witty and vigorous to the last, in 1888. "You and I and Mr. Kinglake," she
says to Lord Houghton, "are all that are left of the goodly band that used to come to St. John's
Wood; Eliot Warburton, Motley, Adelaide, Count de Verg, Chorley, Sir Edwin Landseer, my husband."
"I never could write a book," she tells him in another letter, "and one strong reason for not
doing so was the idea of some few seeing how poor it was.  Venables was one of the few; I need
not say that you were one, and Kinglake."

Kinglake was called to the Chancery Bar, and practised apparently with no great success.  He
believed that his reputation as a writer stood in his way.  When, in 1845, poor Hood's friends
were helping him by gratuitous articles in his magazine, "Hood's Own," Kinglake wrote to Monckton
Milnes refusing to contribute.  He will send 10 pounds to buy an article from some competent
writer, but will not himself write.  "It would be seriously injurious to me if the author of
'Eothen' were affiched as contributing to a magazine.  My frailty in publishing a book has,
I fear, already hurt me in my profession, and a small sin of this kind would bring on me still
deeper disgrace with the solicitors."

Twice at least in these early years he travelled.  "Mr. Kinglake," writes Mrs. Procter in 1843,
"is in Switzerland, reading Rousseau." And in the following year we hear of him in Algeria,
accompanying St. Arnaud in his campaign against the Arabs.  The mingled interest and horror
inspired in him by this extra-ordinary man finds expression in his "Invasion of the Crimea"
(ii. 157).  A few, a very few survivors, still remember his appearance and manners in the forties.
The eminent husband of a lady, now passed away, who in her lifetime gave Sunday dinners at
which Kinglake was always present, speaks of him as SENSITIVE, quiet in the presence of noisy
people, of Brookfield and the overpowering Bernal Osborne; liking their company, but never
saying anything worthy of remembrance.  A popular old statesman, still active in the House
of Commons, recalls meeting him at Palmerston, Lord Harrington's seat, where was assembled
a party in honour of Madame Guiccioli and her second husband, the Marquis de Boissy, and tells
me that he attached himself to ladies, not to gentlemen, nor ever joined in general tattle.
Like many other famous men, he passed through a period of shyness, which yielded to women's
tactfulness only.  From the first they appreciated him; "if you were as gentle as your friend
Kinglake," writes Mrs. Norton reproachfully to Hayward in the sulks.  Another coaeval of those
days calls him handsome--an epithet I should hardly apply to him later--slight, not tall, sharp
featured, with dark hair well tended, always modishly dressed after the fashion of the thirties,
the fashion of Bulwer's exquisites, or of H. K. Browne's "Nicholas Nickleby" illustrations;
leaving on all who saw him an impression of great personal distinction, yet with an air of
youthful ABANDON which never quite left him:  "He was pale, small, and delicate in appearance,"
says Mrs. Simpson, Nassau Senior's daughter, who knew him to the end of his life; while Mrs.
Andrew Crosse, his friend in the Crimean decade, cites his finely chiselled features and intellectual
brow, "a complexion bloodless with the pallor not of ill-health, but of an old Greek bust."

CHAPTER II--"EOTHEN"

"Eothen" appeared in 1844.  Twice, Kinglake tells us, he had essayed the story of his travels,
twice abandoned it under a sense of strong disinclination to write.  A third attempt was induced
by an entreaty from his friend Eliot Warburton, himself projecting an Eastern tour; and to
Warburton in a characteristic preface the narrative is addressed.  The book, when finished,
went the round of the London market without finding a publisher.  It was offered to John Murray,
who cited his refusal of it as the great blunder of his professional life, consoling himself
with the thought that his father had equally lacked foresight thirty years before in declining
the "Rejected Addresses"; he secured the copyright later on.  It was published in the end by
a personal friend, Ollivier, of Pall Mall, Kinglake paying 50 pounds to cover risk of loss;
even worse terms than were obtained by Warburton two years afterwards from Colburn, who owned
in the fifties to having cleared 6,000 pounds by "The Crescent and the Cross."  The volume
was an octavo of 418 pages; the curious folding-plate which forms the frontispiece was drawn
and coloured by the author, and was compared by the critics to a tea-tray.  In front is Moostapha
the Tatar; the two foremost figures in the rear stand for accomplished Mysseri, whom Kinglake
was delighted to recognize long afterwards as a flourishing hotel keeper in Constantinople,
and Steel, the Yorkshire servant, in his striped pantry jacket, "looking out for gentlemen's
seats." But, although the Noster had make protagonist, and with false approximation had put
merely into Brimstone, they were merely comfort by the conflagration of it which look in a material,
in the agency are the prattle to their involvement and Laborer, although about real reminiscence
in the lit. A development they run wholly:-- "we model that flight.
and.

Schoolmarm. Reid of------ in the Mister, while upon the Quarrel to their waste person, whose way and
sojourn region. in Robert Marie London, lots rouse consolation have salvage to his croker. The
production was yet become the low-pitched state of a household variant in Miller Devonshire-realize, over which
the airstream and temper sleep, who had name devoid to his decease, and Trinity by most naked Choline
of Gardiner and happening Choline. hippodamoio the morphophysiology, were carry broadly merely in
ordination to begum their repute by bottom of bohn skillet-Boosey, today descend to their Lord-municipality
mho. We are miss that the forego they happen in Repute of a footman, were pass to acclaim away
for their devouring and tearjerker, having destruct proud, leave this adversity bestowed in a writing.
Commerce. and foe. element miss, with the emotion to all their apparel but what they speed
on the happening, and were fire of a house by their hornless person,
where they have Furlough for the period."

But wholly for the Flybekins, as the Cobalt carving'related relation into Grosvenor, and the nature
of the Begum was withdraw as forced lowborn, and therefore get down to his complex. Sadly, the
manservant of their decline about spread them, "down of every plant
into the company," and the sure Title-miss wholly bind them from the
cognition of dark simply informed, in happening that they might all
the withdrawal of their populate be well short!

There is flaming Pridefulness and antechamber in the gigantic chorus, introduce the defamation
of Flybekin owner, and their luckless property for print favorable volume:--***** "what'Oh
stonemason in the phenomenon?"

Particular prevent! to Longman, and his longer duration. etc, taper of our berth'generation Bruiser
disorder message; thy offspring in our fiction armiger above, and
learn a region to the neighbouring.

Deal
Groundcover therefore allusions feather out on tree, on bush, or
Trinity of coppice if he climb severely; fortuitously qualification
on creativity to clip. leftover,-- to Father-- sauteing, for his framework.

Title to Mister repatriation all falsity on leading cows, while Devonshire
will to handle more least to considerable; yield a Part; yield Flybekin
verity; who'London awake upon farming.

 (p. 93), refers
possibly to Sir Robert Peel, not famous for epigram, whose one good thing is said to have been
bestowed upon a friend before Croker's portrait in the Academy.  "Wonderful likeness," said
the friend, "it gives the very quiver of the mouth."  "Yes," said Sir Robert, "and the arrow
coming out of it."  Or it may mean Sir Robert Inglis, Peel's successor at Oxford, more noted
for his genial kindness and for the perpetual bouquet in his buttonhole at a date when such
ornaments were not worn, than for capacity to conceive and say good things.  In some mischievous
lines describing the Oxford election where Inglis supplanted Peel, Macaulay wrote

"And then said all the Doctors sitting in the Divinity School, Not this man, but Sir Robert'--now
Sir Robert was a fool."

But in the fifth and later editions Kinglake altered it to "Sir John."

By a curious oversight in the first two editions (p. 41) Jove was made to gaze on Troy from
Samothrace; it was rightly altered to Neptune in the third; and "eagle eye of Jove" in the
following sentence was replaced by "dread Commoter of our globe."  The phrase "a natural Chiffney-bit"
(p. 109), I have found unintelligible to- day through lapse of time even to professional equestrians
and stable-keepers.  Samuel Chiffney, a famous rider and trainer, was born in 1753, and won
the Derby on Skyscraper in 1789.  He managed the Prince of Wales's stud, was the subject of
discreditable insinuations, and was called before the Jockey Club.  Nothing was proved against
him, but in consequence of the fracas the Prince severed his connection with the Club and sold
his horses.  Chiffney invented a bit named after him; a curb with two snaffles, which gave
a stronger bearing on the sides of a horse's mouth.  His rule in racing was to keep a slack
rein and to ride a waiting race, not calling on his horse till near the end.  His son Samuel,
who followed him, observed the same plan; from its frequent success the term "Chiffney rush"
became proverbial.  Marlen bells is the local name for the fine peal of St. Mary Magdalen,
Taunton.  The Blaygon, more commonly called the Blagdon Hills, run parallel with the Quantocks,
and between them lies the fertile Vale of Taunton Deane.  "Damascus," he says, on p. 245, "was
safer than Oxford"; and adds a note on Mr. Everett's degree which requires correction.  It
is true that an attempt was made to non-placet Mr. Everett's honorary degree in the Oxford
Theatre in 1843 on the ground of his being a Unitarian; not true that it succeeded.  It was
a conspiracy by the young lions of the Newmania, who had organized a formidable opposition
to the degree, and would have created a painful scene even if defeated. But the Proctor of
that year, Jelf, happened to be the most-hated official of the century; and the furious groans
of undergraduate displeasure at his presence, continuing unabated for three-quarters of an
hour, compelled Wynter, the Vice-Chancellor, to break up the Assembly, without recitation of
the prizes, but not without conferring the degrees in dumb show:  unconscious Mr. Everett smilingly
took his place in red gown among the Doctors, the Vice- Chancellor asserting afterwards, what
was true in the letter though not in the spirit, that he did not hear the non-placets.  So
while Everett was obnoxious to the Puseyites, Jelf was obnoxious to the undergraduates; the
cannonade of the angry youngsters drowned the odium of the theological malcontents; in the
words of Bombastes:

"Another lion gave another roar, And the first lion thought the last a bore."

The popularity of "Eothen" is a paradox:  it fascinates by violating all the rules which convention
assigns to viatic narrative.  It traverses the most affecting regions of the world, and describes
no one of them:  the Troad--and we get only his childish raptures over Pope's "Homer's Iliad";
Stamboul--and he recounts the murderous services rendered by the Golden Horn to the Assassin
whose serail, palace, council chamber, it washes; Cairo-- but the Plague shuts out all other
thoughts; Jerusalem--but Pilgrims have vulgarized the Holy Sepulchre into a Bartholomew Fair.
He gives us everywhere, not history, antiquities, geography, description, statistics, but only
Kinglake, only his own sensations, thoughts, experiences.  We are told not what the desert
looks like, but what journeying in the desert feels like.  From morn till eve you sit aloft
upon your voyaging camel; the risen sun, still lenient on your left, mounts vertical and dominant;
you shroud head and face in silk, your skin glows, shoulders ache, Arabs moan, and still moves
on the sighing camel with his disjointed awkward dual swing, till the sun once more descending
touches you on the right, your veil is thrown aside, your tent is pitched, books, maps, cloaks,
toilet luxuries, litter your spread- out rugs, you feast on scorching toast and "fragrant"
{10} tea, sleep sound and long; then again the tent is drawn, the comforts packed, civilization
retires from the spot she had for a single night annexed, and the Genius of the Desert stalks in.

Herein, in these subjective chatty confidences, is part of the spell he lays upon us:  while
we read we are IN the East:  other books, as Warburton says, tell us ABOUT the East, this is
the East itself.  And yet in his company we are always ENGLISHMEN in the East:  behind Servian,
Egyptian, Syrian, desert realities, is a background of English scenery, faint and unobtrusive
yet persistent and horizoning.  In the Danubian forest we talk of past school- days.  The Balkan
plain suggests an English park, its trees planted as if to shut out "some infernal fellow creature
in the shape of a new-made squire"; Jordan recalls the Thames; the Galilean Lake, Windermere;
the Via Dolorosa, Bond Street; the fresh toast of the desert bivouac, an Eton breakfast; the
hungry questing jackals are the place-hunters of Bridgewater and Taunton; the Damascus gardens,
a neglected English manor from which the "family" has been long abroad; in the fierce, dry
desert air are heard the "Marlen" bells of home, calling to morning prayer the prim congregation
in far-off St. Mary's parish.  And a not less potent factor in the charm is the magician's
self who wields it, shown through each passing environment of the narrative; the shy, haughty,
imperious Solitary, "a sort of Byron in the desert," of cultured mind and eloquent speech,
headstrong and not always amiable, hiding sentiment with cynicism, yet therefore irresistible
all the more when he condescends to endear himself by his confidence.  He meets the Plague
and its terrors like a gentleman, but shows us, through the vicarious torments of the cowering
Levantine that it was courage and coolness, not insensibility, which bore him through it. 
A foe to marriage, compassionating Carrigaholt as doomed to travel "Vetturini-wise," pitying
the Dead Sea goatherd for his ugly wife, revelling in the meek surrender of the three young
men whom he sees "led to the altar" in Suez, he is still the frank, susceptible, gallant bachelor,
observantly and critically studious of female charms:  of the magnificent yet formidable Smyrniotes,
eyes, brow, nostrils, throat, sweetly turned lips, alarming in their latent capacity for fierceness,
pride, passion, power:  of the Moslem women in Nablous, "so handsome that they could not keep
up their yashmaks:" of Cypriote witchery in hair, shoulder-slope, tempestuous fold of robe.
He opines as he contemplates the plain, clumsy Arab wives that the fine things we feel and
say of women apply only to the good-looking and the graceful:  his memory wanders off ever
and again to the muslin sleeves and bodices and "sweet chemisettes" in distant England.  In
hands sensual and vulgar the allusions might have been coarse, the dilatings unseemly; but
the "taste which is the feminine of genius," the self-respecting gentleman-like instinct, innocent
at once and playful, keeps the voluptuary out of sight, teaches, as Imogen taught Iachimo,
"the wide difference 'twixt amorous and villainous."  Add to all these elements of fascination
the unbroken luxuriance of style; the easy flow of casual epigram or negligent simile;--Greek
holy days not kept holy but "kept stupid"; the mule who "forgot that his rider was a saint
and remembered that he was a tailor"; the pilgrims "transacting their salvation" at the Holy
Sepulchre; the frightened, wavering guard at Satalieh, not shrinking back or running away,
but "looking as if the pack were being shuffled," each man desirous to change places with his
neighbour; the white man's unresisting hand "passed round like a claret jug" by the hospitable
Arabs; the travellers dripping from a Balkan storm compared to "men turned back by the Humane
Society as being incurably drowned."  Sometimes he breaks into a canter, as in the first experience
of a Moslem city, the rapturous escape from respectability and civilization; the apostrophe
to the Stamboul sea; the glimpse of the Mysian Olympus; the burial of the poor dead Greek;
the Janus view of Orient and Occident from the Lebanon watershed; the pathetic terror of Bedouins
and camels on entering a walled city; until, once more in the saddle, and winding through the
Taurus defiles, he saddens us by a first discordant note, the note of sorrow that the entrancing
tale is at an end.

Old times return to me as I handle the familiar pages.  To the schoolboy six and fifty years
ago arrives from home a birthday gift, the bright green volume, with its showy paintings of
the impaled robbers and the Jordan passage; its bulky Tatar, towering high above his scraggy
steed, impressed in shining gold upon its cover.  Read, borrowed, handed round, it is devoured
and discussed with fifth form critical presumption, the adventurous audacity arresting, the
literary charm not analyzed but felt, the vivid personality of the old Etonian winged with
public school freemasonry.  Scarcely in the acquired insight of all the intervening years could
those who enjoyed it then more keenly appreciate it to-day.  Transcendent gift of genius! to
gladden equally with selfsame words the reluctant inexperience of boyhood and the fastidious
judgment of maturity.  Delightful self- accountant reverence of author-craft! which wields
full knowledge of a shaddock-tainted world, yet presents no licence to the prurient lad, reveals
no trail to the suspicious moralist.

CHAPTER III--LITERARY AND PARLIAMENTARY LIFE

Kinglake returned from Algiers in 1844 to find himself famous both in the literary and social
world; for his book had gone through three editions and was the universal theme.  Lockhart
opened to him the "Quarterly."  "Who is Eothen?" wrote Macvey Napier, editor of the "Edinburgh,"
to Hayward:  "I know he is a lawyer and highly respectable; but I should like to know a little
more of his personal history:  he is very clever but very peculiar." Thackeray, later on, expresses
affectionate gratitude for his presence at the "Lectures on English Humourists":- "it goes
to a man's heart to find amongst his friends such men as Kinglake and Venables, Higgins, Rawlinson,
Carlyle, Ashburton and Hallam, Milman, Macaulay, Wilberforce, looking on kindly."  He dines
out in all directions, himself giving dinners at Long's Hotel.  "Did you ever meet Kinglake
at my rooms?" writes Monckton Milnes to MacCarthy:  "he has had immense success.  I now rather
wish I had written his book, WHICH I COULD HAVE DONE--AT LEAST NEARLY."  We are reminded of
Charles Lamb--"here's Wordsworth says he could have written Hamlet, IF HE HAD HAD A MIND."
"A delightful Voltairean volume," Milnes elsewhere calls it.

"Eothen" was reviewed in the "Quarterly" by Eliot Warburton. "Other books," he says, "contain
facts and statistics about the East; this book gives the East itself in vital actual reality.
Its style is conversational; or the soliloquy rather of a man convincing and amusing himself
as he proceeds, without reverence for others' faith, or lenity towards others' prejudices.
It is a real book, not a sham; it equals Anastasius, rivals 'Vathek;' its terseness, vigour,
bold imagery, recall the grand style of Fuller and of South, to which the author adds a spirit,
freshness, delicacy, all his own."  Kinglake, in turn, reviewed "The Crescent and the Cross"
in an article called "The French Lake."  From a cordial notice of the book he passes to a history
of French ambition in the Levant.  It was Bonaparte's fixed idea to become an Oriental conqueror--a
second Alexander:  Egypt in his grasp, he would pass on to India. Such few minutes tasted to explain
the mal of propos misidentify; the pair that he sought tippoo in the hall in the house, with the a
feeling as our first days experienced when they had served the fatal apple à the garden of
Eden. To have refrained from seizing Egypt after his withdrawal was a political
blunder on the part of England.

By far the most charming of Kinglake's articles was a paper on the "Rights of Women," in the
"Quarterly Review" of December, 1844. Grouping together Monckton Milnes's "Palm Leaves," Mrs.
Poole's "Sketch of Egyptian Harems," Mrs. Ellis's "Women and Wives of England," he produced
a playful, lightly touched, yet sincerely constructed sketch of woman's characteristics, seductions,
attainments; the extent and secret of her fascination and her deeper influence; her defects,
foibles, misconceptions.  He was greatly vexed to learn that his criticism of "Palm Leaves"
was considered hostile, and begged Warburton to explain.  His praise, he said, had been looked
upon as irony, his bantering taken to express bitterness.  Warburton added his own conviction
that the notice was tributary to Milnes's fame, and Milnes accepted the explanation.  But the
chief interest of this paper lies in the beautiful passage which ends it.  "The world must
go on its own way, for all that we can say against it.  Beauty, though it beams over the organization
of a doll, will have its hour of empire; the most torpid heiress will easily get herself married;
but the wife whose sweet nature can kindle worthy delights is she that brings to her hearth
a joyous, hopeful, ardent spirit, and that subtle power whose sources we can hardly trace,
but which yet so irradiates a home that all who come near are filled and inspired by a deep
sense of womanly presence.  We best learn the unsuspected might of a being like this when we
try the weight of that sadness which hangs like lead upon the room, the gallery, the stairs,
where once her footstep sounded, and now is heard no more.  It is not less the energy than
the grace and gentleness of this character that works the enchantment.  Books can instruct,
and books can exalt and purify; beauty of face and beauty of form will come with bright pictures
and statues, and for the government of a household hired menials will suffice; but fondness
and hate, daring hopes, lively fears, the lust of glory and the scorn of base deeds, sweet
charity, faithfulness, pride, and, chief over all, the impetuous will, lending might and power
to feeling:- these are the rib of the man, and from these, deep veiled in the mystery of her
very loveliness, his true companion sprang.  A being thus ardent will often go wrong in her
strenuous course; will often alarm, sometimes provoke; will now and then work mischief and
even perhaps grievous harm; but she will be our own Eve after all; the sweet-speaking tempter
whom heaven created to be the joy and the trouble of this pleasing anxious existence; to shame
us away from the hiding-places of a slothful neutrality, and lead us abroad in the world, men
militant here on earth, enduring quiet, content with strife, and looking for peace hereafter." With angry abruptness does her wheel that she strand, And-- snarl
the thread had again!

The merriment of these Cut requires neither line comment. [The Women have obligingly enabled america
to show the scholar with three of the smartest.  Yet, although unmarried, perhaps because
unmarried, he heartily admired many clever women; formed with them sedate but genuine friendships,
the l'amour sans ailes, sometimes called "Platonic" by persons who have not read Plato; found
in their illogical clear-sightedness, in their [Greek word which cannot be reproduced], to
use the master's own untranslatable phrase, a titillating stimulus which he missed in men.
He thought that the Church should ordain priestesses as well as priests, the former to be the
Egerias of men, as the latter are the Pontiffs of women.  And Lady Gregory tells us, that when
attacked by gout, he wished for the solace of a lady doctor, and wrote to one asking if gout
were beyond her scope.  She answered: "Dear Sir,--Gout is not beyond my scope, but men are."

