Huck Finn is drawn from life; Tom Sawyer also, but not from an individual--he is a combination
of the characteristics of three boys whom I knew, and therefore belongs to the composite order
of architecture.

The odd superstitions touched upon were all prevalent among children and slaves in the West
at the period of this story--that is to say, thirty or forty years ago.

Although my book is intended mainly for the entertainment of boys and girls, I hope it will
not be shunned by men and women on that account, for part of my plan has been to try to pleasantly
remind adults of what they once were themselves, and of how they felt and thought and talked,
and what queer enterprises they sometimes engaged in. 

And then Abel was silent as a woman, the father said, "Why, my son, because the other People
always go through the door. "

That was the Hinzelmeier already evident, but soon learned he wanted more.

"Where are you going when you go through the wall," he said, "and
where are the roses?"

But before he knew it, the Father had put over his head again and
the rocking horse Mother sang the beautiful song:

"Hatto of Mainz
and Poppo of Trier rode together from Luenebier; hott hott Hatto always!
on the trot!

Poppo hop hop! always gallop!

One, two, three! Cell over, one, two, three, four!

Now we are here.

"

"Bind it go! Bind it go!"

Hinzelmeier cried and the father tied the steed from the stove knob and the mother sang, and the
horsemen rode up and Jup Jup down and soon all the roses and forget white walls in the world.

The
tip

Well went back some years, without being Hinzelmeier experienced a repeat of the miracle; therefore,
he thought no more about it everywhere, though his parents were young and beautiful, as they
always have been, and often in winter, the wonderful scent of roses surrounded her.

In the lonely corridors of the upper floor Hinzelmeier was now to be found only rarely more;
because the cat had died of old age and so was his school for lack of pupils of themselves received.

He
was now beginning almost as if a few years would have to grow the beard, because One afternoon
he went up again into the old hall to visit the white walls, because he wanted the evening,
the famous shadow play "Nebuchadnezzar and his Nutcracker" hire musicians to perform. In this
view, he had come to the end of the corridor, looking at the white cross wall from top to bottom,
as he, to his surprise the corner of a handkerchief hervorhaengen saw it. He bent down to look at
it closer, stood in the corner: 'Ali', which could otherwise called as 'Abel Hinzelmeier' and
it was his handkerchief Mother. Now it began to purr in his head, and the thoughts of working
backwards, on and on, until it suddenly in the first chapter of this history halted. He then
searched the handkerchief from the wall to pull out what it even after a little painful experiments
was happy, he suggested, as did the beautiful woman Abel, three times with the cloth against
the wall, and one - two - three - " did they silently from each other, Hinzelmeier slipped through
and was standing - where he hoped to reach at least - on the House floor. But it was not to doubt,
where the Urgrossmutterschrank stood with the wackelkoepfigen pagodas, along with its own cradle
and continues to the rocking horse, all old appliance, and under the beam length on iron hooks
hung like always the father coats and travel collar and turned slowly around himself when the train
through the open floor doors in. stressed. "Strange!" Hinzelmeier said, "why the mother went
for but always through the wall? "He, however, in addition to the known objects see nothing
could, he would go down by the Bodentuer back into the house. But the door was not there. He hesitated
a moment and thought initially to have only been wrong, because he other hand, was up passes
than usual. He therefore turned and walked between Coats by the old to the cupboard to find your way
from here, and right! there was opposite the door, he could not understand how he had been
able overlooked. When he But it happened, everything seemed suddenly so strange that he began to
doubt whether they are also facing the right door. But however much he knew, there was no other.
What disturbed him most was that the iron latch was missing and removed
also the key was, who used to plug used to.

He therefore took his eye to the keyhole, whether he may be able to perceive someone on the stairs
or the landing, which he condescended. To his amazement he saw not the dark staircase, but in
a bright, roomy Room, of whose existence he had hitherto had no idea.

In the middle of it, he saw a pyramid-shaped shrine, the golden hue of two closed doors and was decorated
with strange carvings. Hinzelmeier not know rather, whether the narrow keyhole confused his eye,
but he was almost as if the Figures of snakes and lizards in the brown leaf garland, which at the
edges hinunterzog, rustled up and down, yes, sometimes even the smooth heads on the gold ground
hinueberreckten the door.

All this occupied the boy so that he now only the beautiful Mrs. Abel and her husband's remarked
that knelt with bowed head before the shrines were.

Instinctively he held his breath to avoid being noticed, and now he heard the Voices of his
parents in a low song:

Rinke, cirrus, Rosenschein, open up, you golden shrine! Team up to and include us Rinke, cirrus,
Rosenschein!

During the song solidified in the foliage the life of the creeping things, and the golden doors
went up slowly and showed the interior of the cabinet a crystal cup, in which a half-opened rose
stood on a slender stem. Gradually opens the cup; on and on until
one of the shimmering leaves and peels off from the kneeling fell
down.

But before it reached the ground it vanished unnoticed into the air
and make up the Room with rose-colored fog.

A strong rose scent flowed through the keyhole, the boy pressed his eye to the opening, but he
saw nothing but now and then a glow, the red in the dawn broke up and disappeared. After a
while he heard footsteps at the door, he would jump up, but a sharp pain at the end robbed him of
consciousness.

The Rose

As Hinzelmeier awoke from the anesthesia, he lay in his bed, Mrs. Abel was sitting next to
him and held his hand in hers. She smiled as he opened his eyes to her and the Reflection of
a rose was on her face. "You have overheard too much, do not read more to have to, "she said."
Only for today, you may not leave your bed, but during the I will tell thee the mystery of your
family. You are now large enough to know. "

"Tell me, mother," said Hinzelmeier and laid his head back in the pillow, and then told Mrs. Abel:

"Far
from this small town is the old rose garden from which the legend goes, he was on the sixth day
of creation was created with. Within its walls are thousands of red Rosenbuesche to stop what never
to bloom, and every time in our race, which is widespread in many sectors by all countries
of the world, a child is born, jumps a new bud from the leaves. Each bud has appointed a girl
as a nurse, what the garden should not leave until the rose has been
retrieved from the, by his birth it's sprung.

Such a rose, which you have just seen, has the power to their Owners to get his life young and
beautiful.

Therefore not easily missed because someone, to get his Rose, it just depends on finding the
right way, for the entrances are many and often surprising. Here it passes through a densely
overgrown fence, there Winkelpfoertchen by a narrow, sometimes "- and Mrs Abel saw her husband,
the newly entered the room, with mischievous eyes - sometimes through the window! "

Mr. Hinzelmeier smiled and sat next to the bed of his son. Then told Mrs. Abel continued:

"This is the largest number of young women released from their confinement and leaves with the
owner of the rose garden. Even your mother was a young woman and Rose used for sixteen years,
the rose of your father. Who voruebergeht but in the garden without einzukehren who may never
go back, only the young woman rose to three times three is Years allowed to go out into the world
to seek the Lord, and rose through the Rose to redeem from captivity. Find them at that time
did not, it must in the garden and back again three times only after three years once the experiment renew,
but few take the first, almost no second gear, for the Rose Maidens shun the world and when they
go so in their white robes, so they go with downcast eyes and trembling
feet, and was among hundreds of such little Kuehnen one of the wandering
Mr. Rose found.

For these, but then lost the rose; and during the virgin to perpetual imprisonment has fallen,
he also has the grace his birth and must be forfeited as the common humanity perish miserably
and age .-- Also you, my son belong to the Rose men's and you come
out into the world, then forget the Rose garden not.

"

Mr. Abel Hinzelmeier bowed to the woman and kissed her silken hair, then he said, friendly touching
the boy's other hand: "You are now large enough you probably want to in the world, and learn an
art? "

"Yes," said Hinzelmeier, "but it would have to be a great art, so one that no one else has
been able to learn! "

Mrs. Abel shook his head sorrowfully, the father said, 'I want you
to have a Bring master who lives many miles from here in a big city,
because you like yourself an art election.

"

Since Hinzelmeier was satisfied.

A few days later Mrs. Abel grabbed a large suitcase with clothes and innumerable Hinzelmeier
still put themselves into a shaving kit, so he's beard when he came at once cut again. Then
one day the car drove in front of the door and when the mother hugged
her son good-bye, "she said through tears to him:" Forget the rose
is not!

"

Krahirius

As Hinzelmeier been a year with the wise master, he wrote his parents
that he had now chosen an art that he wanted to?

Philosopher's Stone? look, after two years will absolve the master him, then he wanted to wander
and never come back, until he had found the stone. This is an art which still learned by anyone
been, for even the master really was just a former shareholders, as the stone or not was found
by him.

had the most beautiful woman Abel read this letter, she folded her fingers together and exclaimed:
"Oh, he will never come in the Rose Garden will go to him as our neighbor! Punch and Judy, who
has moved out twenty years ago and never came back home! "

Mr. Hinzelmeier but kissed the beautiful woman and said: "He had to go his way I! for once wanted
to? Philosopher's Stone? and look I found instead the Rose. "

Hinzelmeier so then stayed with the wise master, and gradually went
the time-herum.

It was already deep into the night. Hinzelmeier sat in front of a smoky lamp over a tome bent. But he did
not succeed today, and he felt it beating in his veins and , Ferment it was a fear about him
than he can ever on an understanding of the deep Wisdom of Proverbs and formulas will be lost,
which kept the old book.

Sometimes he turned his pale face into the back room, staring mindlessly
into the corner, where the morose figure of his master in front of
a low herd between a glowing bulb and fiddling jars, and sometimes,
when the bats vorueberstrichen to the windows, saw He longingly out
into the moonlit night, the outside was like a charm over the fields.

Besides the master of the Kraeuterfrau crouched on the ground. She had the gray house cat on the lap
and he gently dusted the sparks from the fur.

Sometimes, when it quite pleasant crackle and the animal meowed before pleasing horror, the
Master reached back to caress him coughing and said: "The cat is
the companion of the wise!"

Suddenly, even from outside, from the ridge of the roof, which was
below the window, an elongated yearning sound, as of all the animals
only the cat and only in the Lenze powerful.

The cat sat up and dug his claws into the apron of the old woman. Still once outside it said. As
the animal ran with a rough set foot on the ground and will Hinzelmeiers shoulders through the
window to the outside, the glass shards sounding behind him flew.

A sweeter Primelduft ran the train into the room. Hinzelmeier sprang up. "It's spring, Master, "cried
he threw his chair back.

The old man lowered his nose even deeper into the crucible. Hinzelmeier approached him and grabbed
him on the shoulder. "Do you hear, Master?"

The master grabbed the mixed gray beard and stared at the boy-bloed
its green glasses on.

"The ice will burst!" Hinzelmeier cried, "it rings in the air!"

The master took him around the wrist and began to count the Pulsschlaege. "Ninety-six!" But
he said concern .-- Hinzelmeier ignoring it, but asked for his dismissal; and even in the
same hour.

Since the master was called to take him stick and knapsack and went with him before the front
door, from where they could go far into the country. The plane was unpredictable in clear moonlight
to her feet.

Here they stood, the face of the master was furrowed of a thousand
wrinkles, his back was bowed, his beard hung down over his brown robe
down, he looked out think other like old.

Also Hinzelmeiers face was bare, but his eyes lit up.

"Your time is up," the master said to him.

"Kneel down, that you may be absolved! Then he pulled a white chopsticks out of the sleeves
and the knee ends three times to the neck touching, he said:

"The word is given under the spirits, call it art into life, So you're
the master.

It is available in any kingdom. It is a name, a mist, to find and create at the same time, This
is the art! "

Then he told him to get up. A shiver shot through the young man as he aged into solemn Face of
the master looked up. He took stick and knapsack from the floor and wanted to go from there, but
the master said, "Forget the ravens!" He put his fist in the lean
Beard and a black hair pulled out.

He blew through his fingers, as it swung as a raven in the air.

Now, he waved his wand in a circle around his head and waved as he
flew the Raven, then He stretched out his arm and the bird perched
on his fist.

Then he raised the green Glasses from his nose, and while he stuck to the raven beak, he said:

"Ways
shalt thou have, thou shalt Krahirius hot! -

Then she cried the
raven "krahira krahira!" and jumped with outstretched wings on Hinzelmeiers
Shoulder. The master said to this:

"Hiking and walking spell book
you have now, and now enough!"

Then he pointed his finger down into
the valley where the road ran over the infinite plane and Hinzelmeier
while, greeting the traveling hat, went out in the Restoration Process,
swung Krahirius up and flew at his head.

The entrance to the Rose
Garden

The sun was high in the sky. Hinzelmeier had a short cut across
a field with green Winter sowing taken that stretched before him immeasurably.
led to the end of that the track through an opening of the wall to
a spacious room addition and Hinzelmeier standing in front of the
buildings of a large farm. It had rained earlier, and now steaming
Strohdaecher in the harsh Fruehlingssonne. He struck his walking stick
into the ground and looked First up to the house, where a people are
being driven by sparrows. Suddenly saw he rise from one of the two
chimneys a brilliant white disk in the air, slow down and turn in
the sunshine fall on it again in the chimney.

Hinzelmeier took out
his pocket watch. "It's noon!" he said, "they baked pancakes." - A
sweet fragrance spread, and then climbed up into the sunshine pancake
and fell back after a short while in the chimney.

Hunger is not;
Hinzelmeier entered the house to pass through a wide corridor in a
high, spacious kitchen, such as the manner to be in the larger farms. He was boat and captain and engine-bells combined, so he had to imagine
himself standing on his own hurricane-deck giving the orders and executing them:

"Stop her, sir! Ting-a-ling-ling!" The headway ran almost out, and he drew up slowly toward
the sidewalk.

"Ship up to back! Ting-a-ling-ling!" His arms straightened and stiffened down his sides.

"Set her back on the stabboard! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow! ch-chow-wow! Chow!" His right hand,
meantime, describing stately circles--for it was representing a forty-foot wheel.

"Let her go back on the labboard! Ting-a-lingling! Chow-ch-chow-chow!" The left hand began
to describe circles.

"Stop the stabboard! Ting-a-ling-ling! Stop the labboard! Come ahead on the stabboard! Stop
her! Let your outside turn over slow! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow-ow-ow! Get out that head-line!
LIVELY now! Come--out with your spring-line--what're you about there! Take a turn round that
stump with the bight of it! Stand by that stage, now--let her go! Done with the engines, sir!
Ting-a-ling-ling! SH'T! S'H'T! SH'T!" (trying the gauge-cocks).

Tom went on whitewashing--paid no attention to the steamboat. Ben stared a moment and then
said: "Hi-YI! YOU'RE up a stump, ain't you!"

No answer. Tom surveyed his last touch with the eye of an artist, then he gave his brush another
gentle sweep and surveyed the result, as before. Ben ranged up alongside of him. Tom's mouth
watered for the apple, but he stuck to his work. Ben said:

"Hello, old chap, you got to work, hey?"

Tom wheeled suddenly and said:

"Why, it's you, Ben! I warn't noticing."

"Say--I'm going in a-swimming, I am. Don't you wish you could? But of course you'd druther
WORK--wouldn't you? Course you would!"

Tom contemplated the boy a bit, and said:

"What do you call work?"

"Why, ain't THAT work?"

Tom resumed his whitewashing, and answered carelessly:

"Well, maybe it is, and maybe it ain't. All I know, is, it suits Tom Sawyer."

"Oh come, now, you don't mean to let on that you LIKE it?"

The brush continued to move.

"Like it? Well, I don't see why I oughtn't to like it. Does a boy get a chance to whitewash
a fence every day?"

That put the thing in a new light. Ben stopped nibbling his apple. Tom swept his brush daintily
back and forth--stepped back to note the effect--added a touch here and there--criticised the
effect again--Ben watching every move and getting more and more interested, more and more absorbed. 

It is because the nightingale sang all night! "-

As was in the wall opposite the hearth, among the ranks of the bright pewter plates, a Schiebefensterchen
withdrawn and a beautiful blond girl, it might be the landlord's
daughter, put curious head into the kitchen.

Hinzelmeier, the clatter of the windows had heard heard, singing and let his eyes wander to the
walls of the kitchen, over the churn and the bare Cheese and kettle
over the broad backs of the elderly to the open Schiebefensterchen
where They were caught at two other young eyes.

The girl blushed .-- "He sings beautiful!" she said finally.

"I was just so," replied Hinzelmeier.

"I sing nothing else."

Then both were silent for a while and you only heard the hissing of the frying pan and the
patter the pancakes. "Caspar sings beautiful too!" lifted the girl again.

"Well-true!" Hinzelmeier said.

"Yes," said the girl, "but as nice as he does, he's not yet. Where then has it beautiful song from?
"

Hinzelmeier did not answer, but was overturned on a tub, under the the sliding window, stood looking
at the girls passing in the chamber. Inside was full of sunshine.

On the red tiles of the hall were the shadows of carnations and Rosenstoecken which side want to
stand in front of a window. Suddenly in the background of the chamber, a door was flung open.
The Fruehlingswind in. roared and ripped the girl a blue silk ribbon
on the hood latch; he propelled through the sliding window, and drove
his prey orbiting around in the kitchen. Hinzelmeier but then threw
his hat and caught it like a summer bird.

The window was a little
high. He wanted it up long the girl, she bent to the of it, since
both take our heads together that there was a crash. The girls screamed;
rattled the tin plates, Hinzelmeier was very confused.

"He even has
a brave mind!" said the girl with her hand and wiped the tears of
the cheeks. But Hinzelmeier the hair from his forehead and into her
hearty Face looked as she lowered her eyes and said, "He has done
it but no harm?"

He had had a nice, good, idle time all the while--plenty of company --and the fence had three
coats of whitewash on it! If he hadn't run out of whitewash he would have bankrupted every
boy in the village.

Tom said to himself that it was not such a hollow world, after all. 

Krahirius who flew silently along behind, sat on the hearth, mantle, while Hinzelmeier asked if he does
it for love or money can get a meal here.

"This is not a pub!" the woman said, waving her ladle that the pancakes crackling went up in
the black chimney and after a while with the top side in the Pan
back clapped.

Hinzelmeier reached for his stick, he had placed at the entrance to
the door: but the old woman drove the fork into the cake and clapped
him quickly to a bowl. "Well, ! Now, "she said," it was not meant,
he translated only;. Is just a complete "

The boy mused awhile over the substantial change which had taken place in his worldly circumstances,
and then wended toward headquarters to report. 

Since Maja Lisa broke out anew in light laugh. And now he heard what it was. Quickly jumped it down
from the rock and ran towards them. Especially they have been waiting on it, "said he said. He
had been with her friend Brittany in Lobby to check on how he do needed to meet Mademoiselle Maja
Lisa alone. And Brian told him that she cultivates every night a walk to the hearthstone.

Maja Lisa's heart began to beat violently, as it had expected a great joy. Ah, ah, how could
it be so unreasonable! It was nigh to know that he no pleasant message would come. He probably
wanted to speak for his brother with her, would certainly put forward the proposal of the sister-in
calmer conditions again.

And it was as they had thought. He led them extremely polite, almost a bit complicated, through
to the hearthstone, helped her up to the boulder where he had just been sitting, but remained
are even on the road.

Then he began to ask them solemnly, whether it is really to behave so that they have a tendency to
his brother.

And then he was just back to the way in Svansskog. She did not know why they suddenly angry and
touched, was not sure why the anger got the upper hand, and rather
irritated she said, she can not understand why he even take the trouble
to ask.

He meant well, she and his brother could not have been together a couple of hours, without
equal have fallen in love with him.

But he could not say whether he had offended her unfriendly tone. She could ever hardly believe
that this should be the same man who sat here just now and had refereed
the throttle.

He had now been measured, as it were a matter of business, and when he had every word that was
spoken here, first think carefully about it.

Quite so he began to doubt if he sold iron or completed a contract with the coal carters.

He asked, Maja Lisa was not to him but consider intrusive, he had only asked because he himself before
he go on, check to ensure whether her heart was still free.

But Maja Lisa woke up an irresistible desire to irritate him and from
his great Security shake something.

"This is not quite obvious that my heart is free, because I Pastor Liljecrona not love, "she interjected.
"Maybe there are others ..."

He bowed a little contemptuously. "That's absolutely right," he said.

"And if your only the slightest chance of you that you have your mind to your hand will stop, then
I will say nothing more. "

The blood rushed to her cheeks, but she saw him firmly in the sad eyes as she replied: "No, I have
absolutely no chance to do so."

"Well, I would" ask you for advice, he said, as he pulled out his handkerchief and took out a tightly
folded, sealed letter, which he did in his hand kept, without letting it see the address. "Perhaps
you are so kind as to tell me whether I should send this letter or tear? "

Maja Lisa did not answer. You could not help thinking of that morning when he into the fox hole
had jumped down. Then, it was: Here's a blow and then a stroke and was in an instant everything
happened. "Why he can not now make a quick jump and knock that I know what he really means, "she thought.
"Where does it that he was now so complicated is going on? "

"This
letter here, Miss Maja Lisa," he continued, his voice sounded, if
possible, still cool and businesslike than before, "the letter, a
young man wrote, of a few years ago at the grave of his bride stood
there and took off the vow, his whole Life to stay alone, only to
always think of them. Since then the young man has never for a moment
thought of breaking his vows, yes, has he not even to each felt tempted.
He has cut down his heart with his lover to the grave, and it can
not back to life. But, Miss Maja Lisa, this young man met a few months
ago together with a poor, lonely and abandoned child. He read in his
eyes the sweetest Association of kindness and humility, and still
more surprised him a great similarity with the beloved. Immediately
he felt the greatest sympathy for them.

The boy ran around and stopped within a foot or two of the flower, and then shaded his eyes
with his hand and began to look down street as if he had discovered something of interest going
on in that direction. Presently he picked up a straw and began trying to balance it on his
nose, with his head tilted far back; and as he moved from side to side, in his efforts, he
edged nearer and nearer toward the pansy; finally his bare foot rested upon it, his pliant
toes closed upon it, and he hopped away with the treasure and disappeared round the corner.
But only for a minute--only while he could button the flower inside his jacket, next his heart--or
next his stomach, possibly, for he was not much posted in anatomy, and not hypercritical, anyway.

He returned, now, and hung about the fence till nightfall, "showing off," as before; but the
girl never exhibited herself again, though Tom comforted himself a little with the hope that
she had been near some window, meantime, and been aware of his attentions. Finally he strode
home reluctantly, with his poor head full of visions.

All through supper his spirits were so high that his aunt wondered "what had got into the child."
He took a good scolding about clodding Sid, and did not seem to mind it in the least. He tried
to steal sugar under his aunt's very nose, and got his knuckles rapped for it. He said:

"Aunt, you don't whack Sid when he takes it."

"Well, Sid don't torment a body the way you do. 

Horse hooves, Rädergeroll, human footsteps behind us? Who knows?

We continue to rush, and suddenly we have what we wish for so ardently, to our Left on tight
trails.

There is the light that was lit by a human hand. takes a sudden turn in the road at dark bushes
before we surprisingly quickly the eyes, and we are faced with the pharmacy "a wild man"

A two-story, apparently is to right solid house with a porch to the side the road ahead of us, rushing
around, dripping trees - over the right of the road another house - next out by weaker lights
seem to be characteristic again other human dwellings: the initial three quarters of an hour against
the mountains protracted Village street. The village consists of only that one way street, but
it meets the person making the traverse has perfect, and who wandered, is usually the outcome
of several Moment still looks back to and above all things and expresses his opinion in a depending
on the character, age and gender avoided manner. Since we are the output or input However,
to achieve but only we are not obligated to do so. We look easy as said to come quickly for the time
being under cover and rush the six steps up the porch; the narrator with the chucked screen from
left to the reader which also has clamped on screen from the right. The narrator has already opened
the door hurriedly and runs the breathless reader after, and you have the wind to the narrator
the Thürgriff again torn from his hand and behind him and the reader the door slammed shut, that
the whole house we are in it echoes in the Home ann both, as in the
history of the wild M! - - That we are in a pharmacy Remember we are
on the spot and the smell.

The enlightened two windows, which we in the soggy, rain-and wind-whipped storm Road saw from which
were the officina, and the lamp on the ceiling it gave her Light through the large sliding windows
on the corridor. In the workshop Pharmaceutisches There was in addition to the familiar odor which
also well-known order and cleanliness of the German pharmacies. The white with blue letters
and occasionally with black skulls and the two arm bones called tins and jars in the compartments
on the walls, the bright green-black stone mortar and a dish, the scales and all other equipment
looked nice and tidy from alluring. Had the terrible bench on which the most of us ever been
in feverish anxiety, and anxiety were sitting, waiting, not for him,
the tool and equipment of high art inspire everyone should have the
highest confidence.

But the evil bank! The grated bad chair! - We were sitting already on it - maybe probably the bright,
clear, frosty winter afternoon, or even worse in the quiet, warm, the horrible, though even the beautiful
summer night, and we trust the boxes and glasses, the bottles, scales
and a dish a little, we remember how we used to calm the measured,
mysterious workings of the man behind the desk watching wild and stupid.

In

the pharmacy was currently no one, but it was still a gleam of light from a adjoining small room,
the door was half open. And with the appearance penetrated other Fragrant one, the subdued atmosphere
of the Apothecary conspicuous change and segregation; herba Nicotiana is of course also to the officinal
plants. We follow this em smell and enter into the next room.

Would she cry, and wish that she had a right to put her arms around his neck and comfort him?
Or would she turn coldly away like all the hollow world? 

A story by Wilhelm Raabe.

With a portrait of the author.

Leipzig

Printed and published by Philipp Reclam jun.
First chapter.

They made far and their comments about the weather,
and it was really a weather was allowed to make loud about everyone's
comments, without damage to its reputation to suffer. It was apparently
the people exceptionally unfriendly day against the end of October,
just in the evening, or rather the night went on. Again and again the rain sweeps in flows from right to on the
left bordered with fruit trees bare road. We hold, in short, breathing, hand over our eyes, looking
around before by a halo of light in any direction to us. It must as long, its length hardly
to be calculated before our villages, the mountains, to lie, and the slightest glimmer of light
south would give us the comforting assurance that we We approached one of these villages. In
vain! And thus SHE would see him when she looked out upon the glad morning,
and oh! would she drop one little tear upon his poor, lifeless form, would she heave one little
sigh to see a bright young life so rudely blighted, so untimely cut down? 

Turning now our attention to the man at the table. He may have an age between the fifties and
sixties have reached, was of more lean body composition as a thick, yellow and gray color
more than red and brown and medium-size stature. He wore a gray gown, trampled, dark-red slippers
and on the silver-gray, Simple hair a dark green house with a cap worn gold embroidery, a ring
of Acorns and oak leaves representing. He was smoking a long pipe to the head one beetle was
painted, and thoughtfully assisted the forehead with his hand, eyes on the vast, empty, comfortable
armchair directed against him.


