"Yes," she said, mournfully, "dear Littleworthy was too happy to last. It broke itself up by
its own charms--all married and gone, and the last rose of summer in my poor person must float
away. Jane wants her mother and not me, and my uncle will submit to me as cheerfully as to
other necessary evils. It is not myself that I fear for; I shall be very happy with the dear
uncle, but it will be a dreadful overthrow to his habits."

"I do not see why it need be," said Rachel.

"What! two old bachelors with a young lady turned in on them! And the housekeeper--think of
her feelings!"

"I do not think you need be uneasy, my dear," said Fanny. "Your brother is convinced that it
will be the greatest pleasure and comfort to Mr. Clare to have you; and though there may be
difficulties at first, I am sure anybody must be the happier for having you," and she caressed
the upturned face, which responded warmly, but with a sigh.

"Alick is no judge! He is the child of the house, and my uncle and Mr. Lifford don't feel complete
without him. My uncle is as fond of me as can be, and he and I could get on beautifully, but
then Mr. Lifford is impracticable."

"Impracticable?" said Rachel, taking up the long word. "He objects to your exerting yourself
in the parish. I know what that is."

"Pray, Rachel," said Fanny, imploringly, "pray don't any anything against him! I am very sorry
he has annoyed you, but I do like him."

"Oh, does he play croquet!" cried Bessie.

"I gather," said Rachel, in her impressive tone, a little disappointed, "that by impracticable
you mean one who will not play croquet."

"You have hit it!" laughed Bessie. "Who will neither play at croquet, nor let one work except
in his way. Well, there are hopes for you. I cure the curates of every cure I come near, except,
of course, the cure that touches me most nearly. The shoemaker's wife goes the worst shod!
I'll tame yours."

"My dear, I can't have poor Mr. Touchett made game of."

"I won't make game of him, dear Lady Temple, only make him play a game."

"But you said Alick did not approve," said Fanny, with the dimmest possible ideas of what croquet
was, and believing it a wicked flirtation trap that figured in "Punch."

"Oh, that's fudge on Master Alick's part! Just the remains of his old miseries, poor fellow.
What he wants is love! Now he'll meet his fate some of these days; and as he can't meet three
Englishwomen without a mallet in hand, love and croquet will come together."

"Alick is very good," went on Lady Temple, not answering, but arguing with herself whether
this opposition could be right. "Colonel Hammond gave me such an account of him, so valuable
and excellent among the men, and doing all that is possible for their welfare, interesting
himself about their library, and the regimental school and all. The colonel said he wished
only that he was a little more easy and popular among the young officers; but so many of his
own standing were gone by the time he joined again, that he lives almost too much to himself,
reads a good deal, and is most exemplary, but does not quite make his influence as available
as it might be."

"That's just it," cried Bessie, eagerly; "the boy is a lazy boy, and wants shaking up, or he'll
get savage and no good. Can't you see, by the way he uses his poor little sister, what an awful
don Captain Keith must be to a schoolboy of an ensign? Poor, without resources,
without valimiento, what could against justice, which only supports the powerful? But my daughter
mine, and if today is not in my power, I assure you it will be tomorrow. Meanwhile guard your
money. "

Said no more. But when I finished reading it, what new and terrible phase took the scuffle between
sailors and our soldiers! God! I lose the battle? Destroyed in the first attack the French, repeated
by removing the last bit of courage in their hearts excised by heat, and returned to the charge
determined to be left to shatter in the mouth of the cannon, or take them. Our soldiers drew
strength from its spirit, because the body does not had. Even the artillery began to falter,
and wounded nearly all early left and right, attacking the latter, gave fire to others, and service
ammunition was done by civilians. The French, half raised with the courage of the sailors were able
to enable two pieces, and from afar, and taking the mass of white cavalry, firing many shots. His long
career, passing over the Spanish battery, wounding the forefront of my regiment. It reared
up as if it were a single horse collide each other, and the spectacle of two dead companions
without a fight filled us with terror. At the same time we hear that cannon ammunition scarce.
Terrible words! If our guns came to lack of powder, whether in their souls that bronze was extinguished
outrage artificial, which moves and upsets sniff the air, and sweep the floor shakes as lies ahead,
it would soon be taken by the brave sailors, and I waited dying disabled by the demeaning nail
trifle that destroys a giant pin that Achilles kills.

That finding put the willies.

"Succumb Spain? Is not God the glory reserved take the first blow to the pedestal of the tyrant
of Europe? ... No, it is possible to look indifferent the spectacle of so sublime effort, oh country,
but I confess that I was raging to know the author of that third letter in my hand, and when not
to neglect your admirable heroism signature looked and saw the name of Roman, second steward of
my unforgettable love, when thought to contain important revelations that role, so I ruled curiosity,
that for a moment out of my mind, oh beautiful corner of earth, spent more once to be balance in the
world! Adiós, Spain, goodbye, Napoleon goodbye war goodbye Battle of Bailen! As school sponge
erases the problem written in chalk on the blackboard to indulge in the game, so it wiped out
everything in me to not see more than the following:

"Mr. D. Luis de Santorcaz: I'll tell you what happened. Everything is resolved, and now give
you shut the door in their noses. Ms. Marquesa de Leiva, to pick up Miss Agnes thought about how
legitimate. I warn you that since I was treated, both want it much, and they crave for deciding
to leave the convent. When Ms. Countess received your letter, in which he proposed the legitimation
by subsequent marriage, he showed his aunt, and she, furious and out of it, asked if I would
be disgraced forever wife of such a loss. Countess cried a little, which is an indication that
he still has something of that love, and finally, after many remonstrances, agreed the two not
allowing you in your family for any reason. You know, as recorded in the foundation of this
great primogeniture, a major of Spain, having no direct heirs, passes to second-degree straight line,
so now it will be the firstborn of Count Rumble. The present Countess of Rumble, aware of the
occurrence of an heiress, announced my housekeeper would enter into a lawsuit, and see you
here on the ground that is worked at home both standing. Finally, the two families agreed to avoid
the ruin of a lawsuit, and have agreed on this basis: married to Miss Agnes D. Rumble Diego, legitimacy
upon it, by what they call the King's approval, which both rights merge into one, avoiding issues.
As the most difficult, Ms. Marquesa finally solved it in a clever and secure. The girl has
come to an end with right foot in the family. Unable to justify the mother, because it opposed the
law, can not accepted the formula of subsequent marriage, or agreeing not to adopt, not give
this right to the inheritance of primogeniture, it was agreed that I will tell you, and that without
will surely be filled with admiration. This bias is for the family business the advantage that
Ms. Countess I will not be any embarrassment. Ms. Inés has been recognized by that ... "

A violent strike snatched the paper from my hands. Encabritóse my horse, and to advance along
squad, felt the loud laughter of a soldier who said: "This is not
coming to read letters."

We ran off the road, and all my colleagues uttered frantic cries of joy. I saw the gun still, and
before a thick curtain of smoke that dissipate allowed distinguish the remains of the marine battalion.
In the French front hung a white flag progress towards our front. The battle was over.

Our soldiers are embraced with glee. Confundíanse the various regiments and civilians newcomers
to the troops. People from the nearby town of Bailen went with pitchers
and jugs water.

Agrupábanse men and women together to collect the wounded. The horses traveled proud of the road,
and generally confused by the many soldiers, showing their simplicity so happy like this. The
cries of "Long live Spain!, Viva Fernando VII!" Seemed sublime concert that filled the space as before
the sound of cannon and the world all tremble with the joy of our victory and the disaster
of the French, first hesitation proud of the Empire. Meanwhile, I ran the camp, looked down, looked
at his hands of all the carriages of the guns, the pools of blood, the thousand corners of
the floor next the body of a wounded and under the head of the dying horse. Marijuán came to me
with open arms and shouted:

- The beat, Gabriel. Viva Spain and the Spanish, and the Virgen del Pilar, who is responsible
everything!

But what you want, so look to the ground?

- Seeking a role that I lost.

XXIX

- Feel the paper - I said Marijuán -. Marine Demons! Did you see attack?

- The daughter are legitimized by royal authority.

- What are you saying?

There is not doubt that we have defeated Napoleon, and how it has overcome everyone, is that we
have overcome the world. But, boy, do not you become crazy?

See how they raise their arms, screaming, general those who come across the plain. Blessed grief,
shock blessed, blessed heat and thirst blessed because we have finally come out victorious!
Viva Spain!

- That way - I said, thinking of my war - comes to enjoy the firstborn,
marrying with D. Diego, to avoid litigation that would ruin both families.

-
What are you talking about there boy?

"- Exclaimed with surprise -. You know that the French are to be
delivered all. What a shame!

That return Napoleon to interfere with the Spanish! Chico, we will eat the world and say that
the Board of Seville is a prude if you do not send us win Paris. Viva Spain!

- And our love, where is it? - Asked uneasy -. What has been the Master of Rumble?

- I think he's dead! "- He replied laconically Marijuán, spurs and away from me.

So great news gave new direction to my rowdy thoughts. The appearance of scuffle inside, I shook
the soul, changed suddenly and completely. It all came down everything got a different color,
and the world was different from my eyes. I do not know if at that moment I felt the death
of my master, or if, on the contrary, overwhelmed the corrupting selfishness in my soul I
accepted with joy the disappearance of one who, standing between my ideal and I altered my
eyes the balance of the universe, rather than Napoleon's Europe ... In the midst of delirium
of that great victory, one of the most momentous has happened in
the world, I remained dumb and my horse carried me from one place
to another, according to his will.

Around me the patriotic effervescence of that joy, that feverish enthusiasm, causing loud
waves. There the human person was gone, melting into the beautiful whole society or nation,
which was no doubt that touched the ground with shouts of joy. The only one who was kept isolated
and could be called selfish man was Gabriel, grain sand does not cluster with the mountain, and
rolled himself, doing it for his own account Speed ​​set for world harmony.

"We need to find out if he really is dead Rumble ... Will he enter the order in the family Inés
his mother? Will lose forever? Should I laugh at my foolish and ridiculous aspiration? A man
I can climb so high? Is the mysterious darkness of the coming times hide something terrible
to destroy this level? "I can wait or resign now, bless the hand of Providence that throws me off
the dust from whence I should never try out? "

These questions I had, when an unanticipated event came to a sudden change the situation of things
outside of me. It was the army to take their positions, the horn drum and summoned all the soldiers,
and large numbers of common people, men and women, ran into the streets
of Bailen.

Our detachments had spotted columns Vedel advanced general, who came to the aid of Dupont
Guarromán, and within walking distance and, a cannon announced to us the presence of a new enemy. Ay!
If Vedel had reached a moment before putting in the crossfire! But God, protector of Spain that
day oppressed and plundered Vedel allowed came when the truce was agreed and and had begun to
negotiate the surrender.

Reding instantly sent an official letter to the French General informing
him of what happened, and enemies detained beyond a chapel called
San Cristobal, on left the road, going to dance Guarromán.

Soon we saw a French officer who came the people with a trade to Reding and one for Dupont,
as in the headquarters of this were already negotiating the surrender bases, we believe certain
of not being attacked by the top of the road, because the suspension of arms was agreed affect all
the forces that made up the imperial army of Andalusia.

Despite this confidence, several regiments, including Ireland and the most famous of Military
orders, both had distinguished himself in battle, took the road ahead Vedel's troops, which at
times were coming and taking positions. My regiment was placed at the eastern entrance of the
village. Would be little more than one when the French Vedel, without waiting for their answer Dupont,
opened fire against Ireland, surprising with considerable force. Great excitement and clamor and tumult
in our ranks. All wanted to go, not to fight the French, but to pass them to the sword, for violating
of war.

But we had to subdue the traitors, precious hostages, which were the remains of the army of
Dupont, who were in our power, as a victim handcuffed and the head on the block. During the
confusion that followed the attack, some troops came to fence up the French countryside, and
others rushed to the aid of the Irish regiments and order, since
a large commitment.

Despite the inferiority of their numbers and positions of our troops,
everything announced that going to lock a battle as fierce as the
first, and the brave countrymen, as line that the soldiers were burning
upon generous desire to die, if need be, on top with an epic late
morning glory.

But Providence, as I said, was on our side.

Almost together with the first shots from the onslaught of Vedel, distant gunfire rang, which
at first did not know what referring address.

- What is that? Do they fire the Herrumblar, or is Menjíbar people? - Asked there.

- Is the division of D. Manuel de la Peña, who comes from the Casa
del Rey - one that answered exhaust all came from the first battleground.

The

third division, sent the sunrise from Andújar by Brown in pursuit of Dupont, had arrived, and
the enemy fire was announced by powder dry. Terrified by this new reinforcement, which would
destroy the remains of the army if the armistice Vedel not submit, Dupont strong gave orders
to cease fire division Guarromán just coming and the firing ceased. With this, the nine thousand
men underwent Vedel in advance to deal that fit their Commander in Chief.

We, however, weapons, and the entrances of the town continued custody
by numerous forces, who were relieved to give us some rest.

When I had left guard, dirigíme to one of the many homes of the people who cured wounded,
I put something on the left, where he received a concussion, although
slight, stung me a lot.

Then walk back to find my post when a hand feeling on my shoulder, I looked and I had the
pleasure of meeting face to face with D. Paco, the teacher and tutor
Don Diego.

- What has become of the child?

Where? There have been at home - he said in a tone distressed and turning pale.

- Mr. D. Paco - I said - frankly do not know where Mr. Earl, but I
think he must be alive.

- What fear, what terror!

The Holy Virgin of Araceli, the Fuensanta, the Pillar and the Tremedal
encourage us all together!

My legs tremble, Gabriel, and if my master and disciple does not
appear, I would not dare to tell the lady.

- I look, I saw him shortly
before the end of the battle.

Walk on either side.

- It is rare for being alive and not come home or send a message. Where is chivalry?
- In San Cristobal, where the battery was at the wheel, on the heights
of the right, those of Guadiela towards the Herrumblar, in many places.
Walk and D. Diego there.

- God willing. I, I run after him. Tell
me ... will no longer fire, eh? Are there danger to walk around here? I hope he will not come over till
it is forgotten, for the very sight of his disapproval would incite her further. I am glad
the Colonel is not here. Here, of course, he is in my imagination. Why should I be referring
everything to him; I, who used to be so independent? Suppose this nonsense gave him umbrage?
Let it. I might then have light thrown on his feelings and my own. At any rate, I will not
be conscious. If this stranger be really worth notice, as I think he is, I will trample on
her ridicule, and show how little I esteem it."

CHAPTER IX. THE NEW SPORT

 "'Sire,' I replied, 'joys prove cloudlets,
   Men are the merest Ixions.'
   Here the King whistled aloud, 'Let's,
   Heigho, go look at our lions!'
   Such are the sorrowful chances
   If you talk fine to King Francis."--R. BROWNING. 

But what of their palaces and what was locked in his palaces, whose magnificence exceeds any weight?
There delicious furniture, thrones of gold and silver, and tableware porcelain, which was less
common then than now; there dwarves, jigantes, jesters and other monsters for the leisure and entertainment
SM cooks and bakers there deep and prominent, which took care of their bodily food, and there
no less profound and eminent philosophers, poets and lawyers, who tended to give grass to his
spirit, who attended his privy council, who chose the most difficult questions of law, which
sharpened and exercised the ingenuity with and logogriphs charades and singing the glories of
the dynasty in colossal epics.

The subjects of this King rightly called him Fortunate. Everything went from good to better
for his reign. His life had been a fabric of happiness, whose brilliance marred only dark shadow
of pain with the early death of Mrs King, a very full and beautiful SM who had loved with all
his heart. Imagine, reader, what the cry, and more having been him,
by the same love he had unblemished, innocent cause of his death.

Tell the stories of that country that the King had seven years of
marriage without achieving succession, but vehemently desired, when
a war occurred in the neighboring country. The King departed with
his troops, but before he took leave of the Queen with great affection.


"Not much that is rational, certainly," said Grace, smiling; "but we know what was meant."

"Granting that we do, what is proved against him? No, I will not say proved, but alleged. He
is one of the many who have thought for themselves upon the perplexing problems of faith and
practice, and has been sincere, uncompromising, self-sacrificing, in avowing that his mind
is still in that state of solution in which all earnest and original minds must be ere the
crystallizing process sets in. Observe, Grace, I am not saying for an instant that he is in
the right. All I do say is, that when depth of thought and candour have brought misfortune
upon a man, it is ungenerous, therefore, to treat him as if he had the leprosy." Downtown Spanish
force occupied the road with your back to Bailen, not far away; to the right of the road from
us stood a few small hills in the distance rose slowly to be confused with the first foothills
of the Sierra, on the left also there was a hill, but it fell later in the riverbank Guadiela,
almost dry in summer and that flowed into the Guadalquivir, near Espelúy. Occupied the center,
to either side of way, powerful cannons, supported by a considerable force of infantry to was
left with the regiments Coupigny Bujak, Ciudad Real, Trujillo, Cuenca, Sappers and chivalry
of Spain, on the right were, in addition to cavalry Farnese thirds of Texas, the Swiss, the
Walloons, the regiment of Orders, Jaén, Ireland and volunteers from Utrera. Brigadier D. Mandábanos
Pedro Grimarest. The French occupied the road for the direction of Andújar and had their main
support in a thick olive grove in front of our right, therefore, served as a shelter to its
left wing. Also occupying the hills on the opposite side with large infantry and a regiment
of armed horsemen, and behind the stream had Herrumblar, too dry in summer, that had happened. Such
was the situation of the two armies, when the first light allowed us to see our faces. I think both
of us are very ugly respectively.

- What do you think of this adventure, Mr. D. Diego? - Santorcaz said.

-
I'm excited - said the little fellow - and want us to send it upon
the French ranks.

And my dear mother adamant that I retain that old sword or blunt
tip ...!

- Is your honor serene? - Marijuán asked.

- So serene that
I would not change by the Emperor Napoleon - said the Count -.

I know it's not anything can happen, because I'm the scapular of Our Lady of Araceli I got my little
sisters, thus this is that I can put in front of a cannon.

And you, Mr. de Santorcaz, afraid?

- Me? - Said D. Luis with some sadness -. You know I was in Hollabrunn at Austerlitz and Jena.

- Well then ...

- Because she witnessed terrible acts of war, I have
fear.

- Fear!

Then out of the row. Here we do not want people fearful.

- No gallant soldier - said Santorcaz - do not be afraid to start
the battle, as well as know what it is.

Hearing this, almost all rookies who laughed a laugh just before lying down, waving with bravado
and dicharachos, according to the warlike excitement that we had,
silent, staring each other, to ensure everyone that it was he alone
who was afraid.

- Do you know what my dear mother ordered me to do
to start the battle? - Said Rumble -.

Well, pray a Hail Mary with full devotion. The time has come. "Hail, Mary ..."

The morgado continued whispering the Hail Mary that began in a loud
voice, and all of our row followed suit, as if that squad instead
was a religious choir prayer, and the strangest thing was that Santorcaz,
turning pale, eyes closed, and removing hat with humble gesture, he
also said "Holy Mary ..."



"Croquet!" exclaimed poor Lady Temple, with startled eyes; "you don't really mean that it is
croquet! O Bessie, Bessie!"

"Ah! I didn't mean you to have come so soon," said the much amused Bessie, as she gave her
hand in greeting. 

Here are Parsondes that V. both held, The Green Bird, vulgar tale told me with singular talent you
your mother and I have done but to write, trying to compete with Perrault, Andersen and Musaus; The
prehistoric bermejino, which I find funny in force to be nonsensical and dialogues Asclepigenia
and Gopa, the first of which I still believe which is the most elegant and discreet, or if you like
it less silly, I've written in my life.

"Now, Alick, I trust to your generosity," said Bessie, finding that they must be pacified.
"Coming, Con--Come, Grace, come and convince Lady Temple that the pastime is not too wicked
for you."

"Indeed, Alick," Lady Temple was saying. "I am very sorry, I won't allow it one moment if you
think it is objectionable."

"But I don't," said Alick, smiling. "Far from it. It is a capital game for you and your boys."

"I thought--I thought you disapproved and could not bear it," said Lady Temple, wondering and
wistful.

"Can't bear is not disapprove. Indeed," seeing that gentle earnest alone could console her,
"there is no harm in the game itself. 

Whatever the thinking of our generals, the fact is that the first division immediately received
orders to start, while Brown with the third and reserve headed for the bridge to pass Marmolejo
and attack Dupont Andújar. I said commanding D. Teodoro Reding first division, it has not yet
been written by History nor that for me is that I was part of it, because all the horses had voluntarily
been built, or rather, cast in the battalions of the army, which had just with half the quota.
My love and those who followed, we had formed in ranks Farnese Regiment, while the lancers
were almost all built Sevilla the regiment in Spain.

On 13 separate ourselves from our peers and take the path, rather,
sidewalks and trails that lead to Menjíbar.

We did not reach six thousand, but we were good people, but I say it is wrong. The Walloon Guards
Regiment, the Swiss, the Crown, the of Ireland, Jaén, the riot provincial Carmona riflemen,
cavalry Farnese and six fire hydrants in command D. Antonio de la Cruz, were pieces respectable
proud of themselves. General had a man for brash, more courage than discretion; medium tactical,
but tireless on the march. Our chief of staff, D. Francisco Javier Abadía, was a very knowledgeable
military, perhaps the best that the army was then Spanish, and the colonel put in charge of the artillery
officer was going through a lot of insight in his gun. We called the sainetero, being the son
of D. Ramon de la Cruz.

Forward, then to reach Menjíbar, people are very agitated because
a detachment French, sent to Jaen in search of food, after plundering
horribly this city had retreated to their headquarters, destroying
in its wake the region.

There were Jaén atrocities that are hardly credible military in a European country. Dijéronnos than
women and children had been cruelly slaughtered, and death as they suffered within their hospitals
several Augustinian and Dominican friars sick. The consternation of those people was excessive,
and approaching troops flocked to us, shedding tears of anger, begging us not to let a Frenchman
living, and asking the old yet strong twelve-year Raptors that they be allowed to march through
the ranks to help us. As we said after the sack, in immediate transit villages, Almenara, Source
King, Grañena and others had not left not a grain of wheat, or a quart of wine or a handful
of straw. Even medicines from pharmacies and hospitals were stolen Jaén, and at the same time,
neither a car nor a mule stayed in that neighborhood.

Many families had come to Menjíbar plundered. In the town square two monks escaped the butchers
of Jaén, preached the extermination of the French.
 I thought you prided yourself on your climbing."

"Up a slippery perpendicular--"

"I know the place," he gravely answered.

"Well," exclaimed Bessie, recovering herself, "I am not a mermaid nor even a dear gazelle,
and, in my humble opinion, there was far more grace in preventing heroism from being 'unwept,
unnoticed, and unsung,' than in perilling my own neck, craning down and strangling the miserable
beast, by pulling him up by the scrough of his neck! Why not confess? Because I love you, I laugh to myself thanks. So
TALES AND DIALOGUES I've loved to write and even to read and reread them after writing. And
this is pretty win, but the charm of fun no pass from me or forward to others. I feel sick, but
I will console myself by imagining, because self-esteem is very subtle inventor, if not thank
me laugh the other is because such because they are disguised and hidden in the text, and so
did not see who did not penetrate and deepens.


His incomprehensible irony had so often perplexed Rachel, that she did not know whether his
serious apologetic tone were making game of her annoyance, and she answered not very graciously,
"Oh, never mind, it did not signify." And at the same time came another urgent entreaty from
the boys that the two "aunts" would join the game, Conrade evidently considering that partnership
with him would seal the forgiveness Aunt Rachel had won by the rescue of Don. 

The joy of the King with this new no bounds, and as everything goes well when you're happy, he triumphed
over his enemies in war, killed by his own hand to three or four kings had made him do not
know what trick, devastated cities, made captive, and returned loaded loot and glory to the
beautiful capital of its monarchy.

This had happened in a few months, and thus to cross the King with great pomp in the city, between
the cheers and applause from the crowd and the clatter of bells, Queen was giving birth, and
bore with happiness and ease, despite the noise and agitation, but
were primiparous.

What would have appalling taste as SM when, on entering the royal chamber, the midwife more
the kingdom was introduced to a beautiful princess who was just born!

The King kissed her daughter and went full of joy, love and satisfaction, the room of Mrs.
Queen I was in bed so red, so fresh and pretty as a rose in May.

- My Wife! - Said the King, and his arms. But the King was so strong and it was so lively the
outpouring of affection, that without more or less accidentally drowned the Queen. So were the
screams, despair and call themselves animal itself, other eloquent samples of painful feeling.
But not so raised the Queen, who, though dead, was divine. A smile of ineffable joy would still
be hovering over his lips.

For They undoubtedly had flown the soul wrapped in a sigh of love and proud to have able to inspire
affection enough to produce that embrace. What a woman truly in love not envy the fate of
this Queen!

The King tried the much love he had, not only her life but after his
death.

Took a vow of perpetual chastity and widowhood, and who fulfilled. He ordered the poets compose
a funeral wreath, which still say it is in that realm as the most precious jewel national
literature. The court was three years of mourning. The mausoleum which was built to Only later
became the Queen of Caria a paltry imitation.

But since, as the saying goes, no matter if it lasts a hundred years,
the king, after a couple of them, shook his melancholy, and felt so
fortunate or more fortunate than before. Queen appeared to him in
dreams and told him he was enjoying God, and the Princess grew and
became developed it was a joy.

To meet the Princess was fifteen,
was, by her beauty, understanding and good treatment the admiration
of all who watched and wonder of all who heard. The King swore heir
the throne and later tried to marry her. You must come over to take care of this wicked little sister, or who knows what may be
the consequences."

"I kept away partly because I was busy, and partly because I believe you are such a little
ape as always to behave worse when you have the semblance of a keeper;" he said, with his arm
fondly on her shoulder as they walked.

"And in the mean time fell out the adventure of the distinguished essayist." How those convicted were laughing! Funny
thing, we would not let me out of there, and every time I said so, so, so.

- A sot - said the diplomat -. I suspect that I was called stupid. Oh iniquity of the nation
French!

You see, Mr. D. Paco, which is a town riddled with Jacobinism! ... What you did not give them
a pair of saber?

- If you loved me so much ...! Yesterday I had all night dancing the bolero and the cap, in the
middle of a huddle where more than forty officers.

Presentation
assumption and still looking forward to the opportunity to laugh,
but it did not arrive, and referring to the face of his mother, veíanle
increasingly stormy. The two were dead fear.

"Military frivolity cannot hope," returned Alick, with a shake of his head, and a calm matter-of-fact
acquiescent tone.

