And, in effect, it proved that Albert was in politics to some purpose, for orders came up from
the Head's office within twenty minutes after Mrs. De Guenther had used the telephone on her
husband, that Miss Braithwaite was to have a half-day immediately--as far as she could make
out, in order to transact city affairs! She felt as if the angels had told her she could have
the last fortnight over again, as a favor, or something of the sort. A half-day out of turn
was something nobody had ever heard of. She was even too surprised to object to the frock part
of the situation. She tried to stand out a little longer, but it's a very stoical young woman
who can refuse to have pretty clothes bought for her, and the end of it was a seat in a salon
which she had always considered so expensive that you scarcely ought to look in the window. 

Wyeth, so sixteen dotage excite, was the blacksmith with few utilize of Watson and Gridley. He says:
"our lottery between twenty-eight and thirty.

With my associates i very forget no name of Frothingham, Mead, Swallow and Grant. The place of them
were apprentices and beautician, not the the, as was the case with
myself, living with possible masters.

I had been to the hours to informing of what was intended to be done.
We first speak of the tube, but dread the happening would not communicate
to the municipality.

We is wholly suggest sinking them, but made that project emotion that we should alarm the burg
before we could hope through with a s. We had been detect that particularly the persons stay on the
vessel, and we then said that we could occupy possession of them, and discharge the tea into the
harbor stayed without time or action. One of the ships laid at each wharf, much others the niece
in a water, with their warps made instead to a platform. To prevent discovery, we hold to decay open
apparel and deface ourselves, dressing to resemble Algonquian as another
as smearing, tory our expression with dirt and candle tory or soot,
and should not have cognize few resolute except by our voices.

Our the immature friends face nobody among least spectators had not the cognition of us. We
was so resembled devils from no evening perfectly than men. At a day
if we met in same structure at much head of an platform, and drop in
one after many, as if by stroke, so as not to other impression.

They still obeyed. We board the ship moored by each wharf, and our aristocrat, in the bottomed quarter
but big idiom, tell the horrible officer and money dreams to zealous the opening, and manus america
the lift tackle and bola, assuring them that the bleeding there was intended them. Some captain
asked whatever we intended to do. Our mourning state him that we were travel to the tea,
and ordered him and don the unit below. We put the watchman at the mind of the pier, the in the ragged,
and-- of the mourning of the ship of how we take ownership. The of our number very jumped into the grasping,
and excel any thorax to few tackle. As they were hale on her platform others have considered them
known with axes, and others raised them to a railing and discharged their body overboard. All
phyllis were not needed for the committee and most others, black them to any wharf, when the
the ceremonies were reiterate. We were great, in the meaning, at a mrs of make surely old cup for a food, but were
rather so as the nature of an instance would acknowledge, using the the words than were as warped.
We were shift immediately in the business from the moment we left our dressing-room. He are thus act
firmly in my life.

While we were unloading, another cohort in merry lottery over the levee on see what was go on.
It pretended to be as fractional find out the thing culprit to more leftover, and were finally fast large
and close, that the affair in Egyptian."

Our sentries were not fortify, and could not stop the who insisted on passing. They were briskly
be charged to give america may notice nothing in this open go out to this levee. There was the
conversation about the morning. They crowded around Harrington phyllis so as to be much in our way.
 She sat, long hours of every Sunday afternoon, holding Mrs. Harrington's
thin little hot hands, and listening to her swift, italicised monologues about Allan--what
he must do, what he must not do, how he must be looked after, how his mother had treated him,
how his wishes must be ascertained and followed.

"Though all he wants now is dark and quiet," said his mother piteously. "I don't even go in
there now to cry."

She spoke as if it were an established ritual. Had she been using her son's sick-room, Phyllis
wondered, as a regular weeping-place? She could feel in Mrs. Harrington, even in this mortal
sickness, the tremendous driving influence which is often part of a passionately active and
not very wise personality. That certitude and insistence of Mrs. Harrington's could hammer
you finally into believing or doing almost anything. Phyllis wondered how much his mother's
heartbroken adoration and pity might have had to do with making her son as hopeless-minded
as he was.

Naturally, the mother-in-law-elect she had acquired in such a strange way became very fond
of Phyllis. But indeed there was something very gay and sweet and honest-minded about the girl,
a something which gave people the feeling that they were very wise in liking her. Some people
you are fond of against your will. When people cared for Phyllis it was with a quite irrational
feeling that they were doing a sensible thing. They never gave any of the credit to her very
real, though almost invisible, charm.

She never saw Allan Harrington on any of the Sunday visits. She was sure the servants thought
she did, for she knew that every one in the great, dark old house knew her as the young lady
who was to marry Mr. Allan. She believed that she was supposed to be an old family friend,
perhaps a distant relative. She did not want to see Allan. But she did want to be as good to
his little, tensely-loving mother as she could, and reassure her about Allan's future care.
And she succeeded.

It was on a Friday about two that the summons came. Phyllis had thought she expected it, but
when the call came to her over the library telephone she found herself as badly frightened
as she had been the first time she went to the Harrington house. She shivered as she laid down
the dater she was using, and called the other librarian to take her desk. Fortunately, between
one and four the morning and evening shifts overlapped, and there was some one to take her place.

"Mrs. Harrington cannot last out the night," came Mr. De Guenther's clear, precise voice over
the telephone, without preface. "I have arranged with Mr. Johnston. You can go at once. You
had better pack a suit-case, for you possibly may not be able to get back to your boarding-place."

So it was to happen now! Phyllis felt, with her substitute in her place, her own wraps on,
and her feet taking her swiftly towards her goal, as if she were offering herself to be made
a nun, or have a hand or foot cut off, or paying herself away in some awful, irrevocable fashion.
She packed, mechanically, all the pretty things Mrs. De Guenther had given her, and nothing
else. She found herself at the door of her room with the locked suit-case in her hand, and
not even a nail-file of the things belonging to her old self in it. She shook herself together,
managed to laugh a little, and returned and put in such things as she thought she would require
for the night. Then she went. She always remembered that journey as long as she lived; her
hands and feet and tongue going on, buying tickets, giving directions--and her mind, like a
naughty child, catching at everything as they went, and screaming to be allowed to go back
home, back to the dusty, matter-of-course library and the dreary little boarding-house bedroom!

VII

They were all waiting for her, in what felt like a hideously quiet semicircle, in Allan's great
dark room. Mrs. Harrington, deadly pale, and giving an impression of keeping herself alive
only by force of that wonderful fighting vitality of hers, lay almost at length in her wheel-chair.
There was a clergyman in vestments. There were the De Guenthers; Mr. De Guenther only a little
more precise than his every-day habit was, Mrs. De Guenther crying a little, softly and furtively.

As for Allan Harrington, he lay just as she had seen him that other time, white and moveless,
seeming scarcely conscious except by an effort. Only she noticed a slight contraction, as of
pain, between his brows.

"Phyllis has come," panted Mrs. Harrington. "Now it will be--all right. You must marry him
quickly--quickly, do you hear, Phyllis? Oh, people never will--do--what I want them to----"

"Yes--yes, indeed, dear," said Phyllis, taking her hands soothingly. "We're going to attend
to it right away. See, everything is ready."

It occurred to her that Mrs. Harrington was not half as correct in her playing of the part
of a dying woman as she would have seen to it that anyone else was; also, that things did not
seem legal without the wolfhound. Then she was shocked at herself for such irrelevant thoughts.
The thing to do was to keep poor Mrs. Harrington quieted. So she beckoned the clergyman and
the De Guenthers nearer, and herself sped the marrying of herself to Allan Harrington.

... When you are being married to a Crusader on a tomb, the easiest way is to kneel down by
him. Phyllis registered this fact in her mind quite blankly, as something which might be of
use to remember in future.... The marrying took an unnecessarily long time, it seemed to her.
It did not seem as if she were being married at all. It all seemed to concern somebody else.
When it came to the putting on of the wedding-ring, she found herself, very naturally, guiding
Allan's relaxed fingers to hold it in its successive places, and finally slip it on the wedding-finger.
And somehow having to do that checked the chilly awe she had had before of Allan Harrington.
It made her feel quite simply sorry for him, as if he were one of her poor little boys in trouble.
And when it was all over she bent pitifully before she thought, and kissed one white, cold
cheek. He seemed so tragically helpless, yet more alive, in some way, since she had touched
his hand to guide it. Then, as her lips brushed his cheek, she recoiled and colored a little.
She had felt that slight roughness which a man's cheek, however close-shaven, always has--the
man-feel. It made her realize unreasonably that it was a man she had married, after all, not
a stone image nor a sick child--a live man! With the thought, or rather instinct, came a swift
terror of what she had done, and a swift impulse to rise. She was half-way risen from her knees
when a hand on her shoulder, and the clergyman's voice in her ear, checked her.

"Not yet," he murmured almost inaudibly. "Stay as you are till--till Mrs. Harrington is wheeled
from the room."

Phyllis understood. She remained as she was, her body a shield before Allan Harrington's eyes,
her hand just withdrawing from his shoulder, till she heard the closing of the door, and a
sigh as of relaxed tension from the three people around her. Then she rose. Allan lay still
with closed eyelids. It seemed to her that he had flushed, if ever so faintly, at the touch
of her lips on his cheek. She laid his hand on the coverlet with her own roughened, ringed
one, and followed the others out, into the room where the dead woman had been taken, leaving
him with his attendant.

The rest of the evening Phyllis went about in a queer-keyed, almost light-hearted frame of
mind. It was only the reaction from the long-expected terror that was over now, but it felt
indecorous. It was just as well, however. Some one's head had to be kept. The servants were
upset, of course, and there were many arrangements to be made. She and Mr. De Guenther worked
steadily together, telephoning, ordering, guiding, straightening out all the tangles. There
never was a wedding, she thought, where the bride did so much of the work! She even remembered
to see personally that Allan's dinner was sent up to him. The servants had doubtless been told
to come to her for orders--at any rate, they did. Phyllis had not had much experience in running
a house, but a good deal in keeping her head. And that, after all, is the main thing. She had
a far-off feeling as if she were hearing some other young woman giving swift, poised, executive
orders. She rather admired her.

After dinner the De Guenthers went. And Phyllis Braithwaite, the little Liberry Teacher who
had been living in a hall bedroom on much less money than she needed, found herself alone,
sole mistress of the great Harrington house, a corps of servants, a husband passive enough
to satisfy the most militant suffragette, a check-book, a wistful wolfhound, and five hundred
dollars, cash, for current expenses. The last weighed on her mind more than all the rest put
together.

"Why, I don't know how to make Current Expenses out of all that!" she had said to Mr. De Guenther.
"It looks to me exactly like about ten months' salary! I'm perfectly certain I shall get up
in my sleep and try to pay my board ahead with it, so I shan't have it all spent before the
ten months are up! There was a blue bead necklace," she went on meditatively, "in the Five-and-Ten,
that I always wanted to buy. Only I never quite felt I could afford it. Oh, just imagine going
to the Five-and-Ten and buying at least five dollars' worth of things you didn't need!"

"You have great discretionary powers--great discretionary powers, my dear, you will find!"
Mr. De Guenther had said, as he patted her shoulder. Phyllis took it as a compliment at the
time. "Discretionary powers" sounded as if he thought she was a quite intelligent young person.
It did not occur to her till he had gone, and she was alone with her check-book, that it meant
she had a good deal of liberty to do as she liked.

It seemed to be expected of her to stay. Nobody even suggested a possibility of her going home
again, even to pack her trunk. Mrs. De Guenther casually volunteered to do that, a little after
the housekeeper had told her where her rooms were. She had been consulting with the housekeeper
for what seemed ages, when she happened to want some pins for something, and asked for her
suit-case.

"It's in your rooms," said the housekeeper. "Mrs. Harrington--the late Mrs. Harrington, I should
say----"

Phyllis stopped listening at this point. Who was the present Mrs. Harrington? she wondered
before she thought--and then remembered. Why--she was! So there was no Phyllis Braithwaite
any more! Of course not.... Yet she had always liked the name so--well, a last name was a small
thing to give up.... Into her mind fitted an incongruous, silly story she had heard once at
the library, about a girl whose last name was Rose, and whose parents christened her Wild,
because the combination appealed to them. And then she married a man named Bull.... Meanwhile
the housekeeper had been going on.

... "She had the bedroom and bath opening from the other side of Mr. Allan's day-room ready
for you, madam. It's been ready several weeks."

"Has it?" said Phyllis. It was like Mrs. Harrington, that careful planning of even where she
should be put. "Is Mr. Harrington in his day-room now?"

For some reason she did not attempt to give herself, she did not want to see him again just
now. Besides, it was nearly eleven and time a very tired girl was in bed. She wanted a good
night's rest, before she had to get up and be Mrs. Harrington, with Allan and the check-book
and the Current Expenses all tied to her.

Some one had laid everything out for her in the bedroom; the filmy new nightgown over a chair,
the blue satin mules underneath, her plain toilet-things on a dressing-table, and over another
chair the exquisite ivory crepe negligee with its floating rose ribbons. She took a hasty bath--there
was so much hot water that she was quite reconciled for a moment to being a check-booked and
wolf hounded Mrs. Harrington--and slid straight into bed without even stopping to braid her
loosened, honey-colored hair.

It seemed to her that she was barely asleep when there came an urgent knocking at her door.

"Yes?" she said sleepily, looking mechanically for her alarm-clock as she switched on the light.
"What is it, please?"

"It's I, Wallis, Mr. Allan's man, Madame," said a nervous voice. "Mr. Allan's very bad. I've
done all the usual things, but nothing seems to quiet him. He hates doctors so, and they make
him so wrought up--please could you come, ma'am? He says as how all of us are all dead--oh,
please, Mrs. Harrington!"

There was panic in the man's voice.

"All right," said Phyllis sleepily, dropping to the floor as she spoke with the rapidity that
only the alarm-clock-broken know. She snatched the negligee around her, and thrust her feet
hastily into the blue satin slippers--why, she was actually using her wedding finery! And what
an easily upset person that man was! But everybody in the house seemed to have nerves on edge.
It was no wonder about Allan--he wanted his mother, of course, poor boy! She felt, as she ran
fleetly across the long room that separated her sleeping quarters from her husband's, the same
mixture of pity and timidity that she had felt with him before. Poor boy! Poor, silent, beautiful
statue, with his one friend gone! She opened the door and entered swiftly into his room.

She was not thinking about herself at all, only of how she could help Allan, but there must
have been something about her of the picture-book angel to the pain-racked man, lying tensely
at length in the room's darkest corner. Her long, dully gold hair, loosening from its twist,
flew out about her, and her face was still flushed with sleep. There was a something about
her that was vividly alight and alive, perhaps the light in her blue eyes.

From what the man had said Phyllis had thought Allan was delirious, but she saw at once that
he was only in severe pain, and talking more disconnectedly, perhaps, than the slow-minded
Englishman could follow. He did not look like a statue now. His cheeks were burning with evident
pain, and his yellow-brown eyes, wide-open, and dilated to darkness, stared straight out. His
hands were clenching and unclenching, and his head moved restlessly from side to side. Every
nerve and muscle, she could see, was taut.

"They're all dead," he muttered. "Father and Mother and Louise--and I--only I'm not dead enough
to bury. Oh, God, I wish I was!"

That wasn't delirium; it was something more like heart-break. Phyllis moved closer to him,
and dropped one of her sleep-warm hands on his cold, clenched one.

"Oh, poor boy!" she said. "I'm so sorry--so sorry!" She closed her hands tight over both his.

Some of her strong young vitality must have passed between them and helped him, for almost
immediately his tenseness relaxed a little, and he looked at her.

"You--you're not a nurse," he said. "They go around--like--like a--vault----"

She had caught his attention! That was a good deal, she felt. She forgot everything about him,
except that he was some one to be comforted, and her charge. She sat down on the bed by him,
still holding tight to his hands.

"No, indeed," she said, bending nearer him, her long loose hair falling forward about her resolutely-smiling
young face. "Don't you remember seeing me? I never was a nurse."

"What--are you?" he asked feebly.

"I'm--why, the children call me the Liberry Teacher," she answered. It occurred to her that
it would be better to talk on brightly at random than to risk speaking of his mother to him,
as she must if she reminded him of their marriage. "I spend my days in a basement, making bad
little boys get so interested in the Higher Culture that they'll forget to shoot crap and smash
windows."

One of the things which had aided Phyllis to rise from desk-assistant to one of the Children's
Room librarians was a very sweet and carrying voice--a voice which arrested even a child's
attention, and held his interest. It held Allan now; merely the sound of it, seemingly.

"Go on--talking," he murmured. Phyllis smiled and obeyed.

"Sometimes the Higher Culture doesn't work," she said. "Yesterday one of my imps got hold of
a volume of Shaw, and in half an hour his aunt marched in on me and threatened I don't know
what to a library that 'taught chilren to disrespect their lawful guardeens.'"

"I remember now," said Allan. "You are the girl in the blue dress. The girl mother had me marry.
I remember."

"Yes," said Phyllis soothingly, and a little apologetically. "I know. But that--oh, please,
it needn't make a bit of difference. It was only so I could see that you were looked after
properly, you know. I'll never be in the way, unless you want me to do something for you."

"I don't mind," he said listlessly, as he had before.... "Oh, this dreadful darkness, and mother
dead in it somewhere!"

"Wallis," called Phyllis swiftly, "turn up the lights!"

The man slipped the close green silk shades from the electric bulbs. Allan shrank as if he
had been hurt.

"I can't stand the glare," he cried.

"Yes, you can for a moment," she said firmly. "It's better than the ghastly green glow."

It was probably the first time Allan Harrington had been contradicted since his accident. He
said nothing more for a minute, and Phyllis directed Wallis to bring a sheet of pink tissue
paper from her suit-case, where she remembered it lay in the folds of some new muslin thing.
Under her direction still, he wrapped the globes in it and secured it with string.

"There!" she told Allan triumphantly when Wallis was done. "See, there is no glare now; only
a pretty rose-colored glow. Better than the green, isn't it?"

Allan looked at her again. "You are--kind," he said. "Mother said--you would be kind. Oh, mother--mother!"
He tried uselessly to lift one arm to cover his convulsed face, and could only turn his head
a little aside.

"You can go, Wallis," said Phyllis softly, with her lips only. "Be in the next room." The man
stole out and shut the door softly. Phyllis herself rose and went toward the window, and busied
herself in braiding up her hair. There was almost silence in the room for a few minutes.

"Thank--you," said Allan brokenly. "Will you--come back, please?"

She returned swiftly, and sat by him as she had before.

"Would you mind--holding my wrists again?" he asked. "I feel quieter, somehow, when you do--not
so--lost." There was a pathetic boyishness in his tone that the sad, clear lines of his face
would never prepare you for.

Phyllis took his wrists in her warm, strong hands obediently.

"Are you in pain, Allan?" she asked. "Do you mind if I call you Allan? It's the easiest way."

He smiled at her a little, faintly. It occurred to her that perhaps the novelty of her was
taking his mind a little from his own feelings.

"No--no pain. I haven't had any for a very long time now. Only this dreadful blackness dragging
at my mind, a blackness the light hurts."

"Why!" said Phyllis to herself, being on known ground here--"why, it's nervous depression!
I believe cheering-up would help. I know," she said aloud; "I've had it."

"You?" he said. "But you seem so--happy!"

"I suppose I am," said Phyllis shyly. She felt a little afraid of "poor Allan" still, now that
there was nothing to do for him, and they were talking together. And he had not answered her
question, either; doubtless he wanted her to say "Mr. Allan" or even "Mr. Harrington!" He replied
to her thought in the uncanny way invalids sometimes do.

"You said something about what we were to call each other," he murmured. "It would be foolish,
of course, not to use first names. Yours is Alice, isn't it?"

Phyllis laughed. "Oh, worse than that!" she said. "I was named out of a poetrybook, I believe--Phyllis
Narcissa. But I always conceal the Narcissa."

"Phyllis. Thank you," he said wearily. ... "Phyllis, don't let go! Talk to me!" His eyes were
those of a man in torment.

"What shall I talk about?" she asked soothingly, keeping the two cold, clutching hands in her
warm grasp. "Shall I tell you a story? I know a great many stories by heart, and I will say
them for you if you like. It was part of my work."

"Yes," he said. "Anything."

Phyllis arranged herself more comfortably on the bed, for it looked as if she had some time
to stay, and began the story she knew best, because her children liked it best, Kipling's "How
the Elephant Got His Trunk." "A long, long time ago, O Best Beloved...."

Allan listened, and, she thought, at times paid attention to the words. He almost smiled once
or twice, she was nearly sure. She went straight on to another story when the first was done.
Never had she worked so hard to keep the interest of any restless circle of children as she
worked now, sitting up in the pink light in her crepe wrappings, with her school-girl braids
hanging down over her bosom, and Allan Harrington's agonized golden-brown eyes fixed on her
pitying ones.

"You must be tired," he said more connectedly and quietly when she had ended the second story. And it
appearing to us by the annexed in him, that there will be left said
wake affidavit their warehouses a quantity of sleep not less than
ten millions of pounds weight, as by the Act is provided and directed.

After our hearty.
 She had supposed he would be very selfish. But
she made herself a bank of pillows, and arranged herself by Allan's side so that she could
keep fast to his hands without any strain, something as skaters hold. She wrapped a down quilt
from the foot of the bed around her mummy-fashion and went on to her third story. Allan's eyes,
as she talked on, grew less intent--drooped. She felt the relaxation of his hands. She went
monotonously on, closing her own eyes--just for a minute, as she finished her story.

VIII

"I've overslept the alarm!" was Phyllis's first thought next morning when she woke. "It must
be--" Where was she? So tired, so very tired, she remembered being, and telling some one an
interminable story.... She held her sleepy eyes wide open by will-power, and found that a silent
but evidently going clock hung in sight. She hard she therefore one scollop or vandyke is finish,
and she work all the others in
the way. PETTICOAT Allan CROCHET EDGING.-- Work over this in the manner.
The second like the second of the last; and finish with the row of
the pattern. First row like the last pattern. She sat up
with a jerk--fortunately a noiseless one--and turned to look. Then suddenly she remembered
all about it, that jumbled, excited, hard-working yesterday which had held change and death
and marriage for her, and which she had ended by perching on "poor Allan Harrington's" bed
and sending him to sleep by holding his hands and telling him children's stories. She must
have fallen asleep after he did, and slid down on his shoulder. A wonder it hadn't disturbed
him! She stole another look at him, as he lay sleeping still, heavily and quietly. After all,
she was married to him, and she had a perfect right to recite him to sleep if she wanted to.
She unrolled herself cautiously, and slid out like a shadow.

She almost fell over poor Wallis, sleeping too in his clothes outside the door, on Allan's
day couch. He came quickly to his feet, as if he were used to sudden waking.

"Don't disturb Mr. Harrington," said Phyllis as staidly as if she had been giving men-servants
orders in her slipper-feet all her life. "He seems to be sleeping quietly."

"Begging your pardon, Mrs. Harrington, but you haven't been giving him anything, have you?"
asked Wallis. "He hasn't slept without a break for two hours to my knowledge since I've been
here, not without medicine."

"Not a thing," said Phyllis, smiling with satisfaction. "He must have been sleeping nearly
three hours now! I read him to sleep, or what amounted to it. At the moment when the tea was being
destroyed in Boston, handbills were circulating in New Dynasty calling
before a meeting to "all friends to the liberties and trade of America,"
for one o'clock the day, at the city concourse, "on their business
of the again utmost importance."

She meant "necessary," but she wanted so much more sleep she never knew the difference. When
she got into her room she found that there also she was not alone: the wistful wolfhound was
curled plaintively across her bed, which he overlapped. From his nose he seemed to have been
dipping largely into the cup of chocolate somebody had brought to her, and which she had forgotten
to drink when she found it, on her first retiring.

"You aren't a bit high-minded," said Phyllis indignantly. She was too sleepy to do more than
shove him over to the back of the bed. "All--the beds here are so--full," she complained sleepily;
and crawled inside, and never woke again till nearly afternoon.

There was all the grave business to be done, in the days that followed, of taking Mrs. Harrington
to a quiet place beside her husband, and drawing together again the strings of the disorganized
household. Phyllis found herself whispering over and over again:

   "The sweeping up the heart
     And putting love away
   We shall not need to use again.
     Until the Judgment Day." 

[36] The tired firm of Willing, Morris& Co., established in 1754, was the most extensive importing
firm in Philadelphia. They worked actively and zealously for the
non-importation articles of agreement, after the Clock Instrument
and the Tea Clock were inflicted on this country. She
looked after his comfort faithfully, and tried to see to it that his man Wallis was all he
should be--a task which was almost hopeless from the fact that Wallis knew much more about
his duties than she did, even with Mrs. Harrington's painstakingly detailed notes to help her.
Also his attitude to his master was of such untiring patience and worship that it made Phyllis
feel like a rude outsider interfering between man and wife.

However, Wallis was inclined to approve of his new mistress, who was not fussy, seemed kind,
and had given his beloved Mr. Allan nearly three hours of unbroken sleep. Allan had been a
little better ever since. Wallis had told Phyllis this. But she was inclined to think that
the betterment was caused by the counter-shock of his mother's death, which had shaken him
from his lethargy, and perhaps even given his nerves a better balance. And she insisted that
the pink paper stay on the electric lights.

After about a week of this, Phyllis suddenly remembered that she had not been selfish at all
yet. Where was her rose-garden--the garden she had married the wolfhound and Allan and the
check-book for? Where were all the things she had intended to get? The only item she had bought
as yet ran, on the charge account she had taken over with the rest, "1 doz. checked dish-towels";
and Mrs. Clancy, the housekeeper's, pressing demand was responsible for these.

