Well ol' dear (you see I've already picked up some London wheezes) a week has flat-wheeled
by since you've heard from 'lil brighteyes. Last wensday Skinny and me got a pass to do the
burg, and our pocket books have been at half mast ever since. As we are billeted some distance
from Picadilly, we figgered to go downtown in a taxi, rite there our trubbles begun. We asked
the pilot of the tin Lizzie what the tax would be and he comes back with, "2 and 6 thankee
sir." Can you beat it? Two dollars fer me and six fer Skinny. We hot footed it down and saved
that much.

I didn't care much about ridin with him anyhow. I think he was a Jona; anyway he was so cross
eyed that if he'd aimed a gun at Berlin he would have shot an eye out of Constantinopel.

We wuz a little nervous account of not being wise to the customs, but Skinny said if we kept
our lids down over our ears nobody would be wise as to what was going on inside our skulls.
The first place we went into was the Palm Tree Inn. All the barkeepers and waiters was "Janes."
Most of them wuz pretty good looking; one "Jane" in particular was there with a front. Skinny
got one lamp at her and immediately forgot what he joined the army for.

We wondered why it was called Palm Tree Inn cause there wasn't a palm in sight, but when we
showed the color of our coin, then everybody in the joint showed us a palm. The people here
move slowly, and believe you me Julie a spider slower than a fifth avenoo handsome cab would
have a cinch spinnin a web around all of 'em. Skinny says most of 'em has a long line of ancestors;
but let me slip you the "info" derie, that some of 'em must be sinkers on the end of the line.
I wish that I knowed as much as they think they do.

Yours till someone counts all the flivvers,

BARNEY.

P.S. Tomorrow night, Skinny wants me to go to the Opera with him. I'm not goin--cause I always
sleep better at home. I'd rather here a soubrette dolled up in a costume that would barely
pass the bord of sensers sing a song like "Mother don't bother with the rolls, father's coming
with a bun."

Dere Julie:

These cockney birds sure chirp some language. Believe you me, a guy had orto carry an interpreter
around with him. Me and Skinny went out to a swell English camp today to take a peep at English
trainin methods; outside we sees a tipical Tommy Atkins settin down fixin sumpin wrong with
his kicks; as we heaved along side of him, he yells out to us, "I say, ol' top, have ye any
lices?" Skinny, thinkin he ment did we have seam squirrels commenced to bawl him out in jig
time, telling him there was no such things in the good ol' U.S.A. when he came back with, "Oh,
I say ol' top, I didn't mean the lousy lices, I meant shoe lices." The camp candle was eagerly
be limited months make to afford a main illumination in room; and its little power me gave
back to the eye in the futurism in a circle round the incus, to a general
regions were the metalworker, in his hammer been already said; his
assistant, and two or one officers, were, on more presence of more
small months for six wuzn, and ennyhow gazed back of some of the
party, and by me of one, as appendages of the picture not be unworthy
observation. Serves Skinny right
about losing the tip for he's such a tight wad that when the company sings "Old Hundred" at
chapel Skinny sings the "Ninety and Nine" just to save a cent. Honest Julie, I don't believe
he would give two bits to see the statue of Liberty do the hoo-chama-cooch. Speaking of the
hoochy-koochy reminds me that we saw the Ol' Curiosity shop that Charlie Dickens wrote about,
and desiring to become acquainted with how much Skinny knowed about books, plays, and etcetery,
I asked him did he ever see Oliver Twist? He says "no but I've seen Fatima wiggle." He would
miss a point if he sat down on a tack, and it would take a vaccum cleaner to sweep the cob-webs
from his noodle; someday I'm gonna hang a peece of crape on his nose, for I think his brain
is dead.

That's why I think he always has a cold in his head, as you know Julie that disease always
strikes in the weakest spot.

Yours until one of the Kaiser's sons is wounded,

BARNEY.

P.S. Keep offen indoor sports, fur none of 'em has got sense enuff to know when to go home.

Dere Julie,

We have caught up with the Spanish influenzy--not influence! as there ain't no sich thing in
the world as Spanish influence. The disease is not confined to Spanish people. It hit Skinny
and he speaks Spanish with an Irish accent, and has never been nearer Madrid than a Spanish
omelet made in Hoboken.

You're nose gets as red as a rear light on an automobile or the beak of a Park Row panhandler.
Your knees knock together like a man who sees a collector for an installment house. The only
things it don't attack is your corns. They should rename it mucilage flu because it certainly
is a sticker; you have as much pep as an Ingersol watch with the main spring on a two weeks
vacation; but cheer up derie, there ain't goin to be any job fer any undertaker. No foreman
fur a funeral is gonna say "All those desirin to kiss the corpse, will please pass up this
aisle and go down the other." Not for a while I hope; which reminds me of that time you and
me went to the revival meetin in Carnarsie. Remember that Julie? You know the time the undertaker
put a century note in the plate, and the ol' sky pilot not knowing who it wuz prayed that "the
business of the giver would increase an hundred fold."

Skinny went into store today to buy a birthday present for his "Jane" in the U.S. Steppin blithely
up to a fresh sales girl he said "I wanna get something for a gift to a lady." "Your wife sir?"
sed she. Skinny thought it would be safer to pose as a married man, so he said "Yes'm." "Bargain
counter to the right, sir," and she went on wrasslin with her Wrigleys; she was so busy with
it, she wasted no more time than a blue gum coon passing a grave yard at midnight, with no
rabbits foot in his pocket. The sales ladies in this emporium are always in high speed, with
the throttle wide open when it comes to chatter; at another counter I asked the young lady
to show me the thinnest thing in underwear. Flashing a 40 below zero look she lisped, "I'm
very sorry sir, but she's just gone out to lunch."

Yours until the Eskimos wear Palm Beach suits,

BARNEY.

Dere Julie:

We drilled today for the first time since we landed in this land of smoke and fog. I'd enjoy
these drills, in fact so would all the boys, if it wasn't fer Skinny. The only one that's in
step is him. He knows as much of the commands as a Bowery Bum knows about publishing a Chinese
newspaper.

Today we saw a German prisoner for the first time. He looked nearly human. Written on his belt
was "Gott mit Uns," an English soldier who saw it said, "But I say Ol top We have the Americans
with us." So you see they're wise to us already.

Believe you me derie, if this war lasts six months longer, Gen. Pershing and his boys will
make German the court language in the lower regions.

Skinny spent last night in the guard house. Gaiety in his eye, and re on his tongue; and these, from
melody, are here please known to be dry commodities; but he took bad care to let them field and hungry
Jennins. Mirth was not well taken to the brethren, that wherever Father sweet was, It mast were
with him. To the brotherhood, whose pleased wine cuddy him, he sung, and when "under this
veritas," his bunk i will well to become this account.

"o,'titanium foodstuff are vino treat while equally as and so excellent
bits from in the song they'music known; and by just Margery, och! "Five shillings up to 10," he said. Skinny called me to one side an' whispered
"Ask him how much it will be up to half-past eight."

Well, derie, we hear we're soon goin on to France, and then fare-thee-well loafin. We be busier
than a paralized man with the cooties. The only thing that's lible to bother me is the language.
I don't know whether I can speak it or not, I never tried it.

Yours until they have ham at a Jewish wedding,

BARNEY.

Dere Julie:

Skinny and me has at last burgled our way into society. You know derie, that what I know about
the highbrow stuff would fill a book, and what Skinny don't know would fill a library.

Believe you me derie, you needn't get jelous for I would just as soon get chummy with a flivver
as I would with this bunch of "Janes" who put us on exhibition, for that was exactly what we
wuz in their eyes--freeks on exhibition.

It happened like this: Lady Blue Jeans Shoddy or some name like that was givin an afternoon
funkshun (I'm quotin from the invite so I can' tell you what it means derie) fer charity and
a lot of our company was invited to come, admission free--tickets fifty cents. Anyhow it was
a lecture by Lord Somebody for the benefit of Lord knows what; the nearest I could make out
it was a spiel on "Do married men make the best husbands." I'd like to tell you how I enjoyed
the talk--but I don't use that kind of language; anyhow I'll lay a small peece of change that
this bird knew less about what he was trying to talk about than you could drive into a turkey
gobbler with a peggin' awl. I give in tho, that he was a brave cuss; anybody who stood up and
shot "bull" like he did for two solid hours, must have been brave. Everytime I looked at him
I thought of that ol saw "Faint heart never kissed the chamber maid." When he finished everyone
in the audience was "out" exceptin an ol maid who was trying to send him a love message by
eye wireless.

After his batteries went dead on him we was invited to eat. It wuz the first time I ever eat
out in company with Skinny, and believe you me, Julie, it'll be the last time while I am conscious.
I'm not going to try to tell you of all his breeches of etiket 'twould take too long, but he
pulled one that was a beaut. He kept mixing honey with his peas; I kep kicking him under the
table, and finally I got a chanct to whisper "What in h---- was he doin that for?" He whispers
back "How am I gonna make 'em stay on my knife if I dont mix 'em with sumpin."

Yours until country bording houses quit using canned vegtabils.

BARNEY.

Dere Julie:--

When the Kaiser is canned and I get back to the ol' job, eatin my 3 a day, and holdin your
hand in the movies at nite, I'm gonna try fer the vaudeville. We have formed a quartet in our
company, and we must be pretty good fer up to the present nobody has fired anything at us but
remarks. Skinny tried to git in by telling us his voice was trained; the top sarge sed he guessed
it was trained all-rite, all-rite, but he must of trained it selling strawberries. We have
a little Yiddish feller in it too, You know, Julie, the one who slips me his bacon every mornin;
when he ain't soldierin, he runs a little gents furnishin store on 8th Avenoo; he's some warbler
too, but persists in allus wantin to sing "Keep the home fires Burnin." Well Julie, if he has
ten thou. insurance on that joint of his, as he sez he has, no wonder he wants to "keep the
home fires burnin." He's all business this little Jewish guy. Skinny sez if he was shiprecked
on a deserted eyeland he would get up the next morning and try to sell a map of the eyeland
to the natives. He's a good business feller too. He rote a song once, fer a big vaudeville
actor, and the actor wrote Izzy to send it along and if it was good he would send a check.
Izzy wired back to send the check, if it was good, he'd send the song.

Well Julie, I'd like to see your little blonde bean just about now. Believe you me, Julie,
me for the blondes every time. Skinny says that brunettes is the most popular; well maybe he's
right; ennyhow his girl has been both, so I suppose he knows. I don't know whether you ever
saw this "dame" of Skinny's or not Julie. She lives on the upper east side of New York and
ways about 275 plus in her bathin suit; believe you me, she ought to marry a traffic cop as
he's the only guy I know of that can handle a crowd. I'll bet 10 cents against Bryan's chance
of being Pres. Skinny can wear one of her stockins for a sweater. If she ever wore a striped
waist she'd look like the awning over a greek candy store, she never knows when she needs a
shine, fer, like Bill the Twospot, she can't see de feat.

Believe you me, angel face she looks like a model fer a tent.

When Her and Skinny walks along Broadway the newsies yell, "Hully Gee! Here goes the claronet
and the bass drum, where's the rest of the band?" I'm tellin Skinny I can't see anything attractive
about her, and he says "I know you can't see anything but she's got it in the bank all-rite,
all-rite."

Speaking about this William Jennins Bryan, I'm readin in the papers about a bull chasin him
half way across a field. Imagine Julie, a bull doin that to Theo. The footin cheek of these shackle
was negligently now at hand, and the disorder Grand. attended latter wearer of them, when you could
be followed. In moment two or ten persons entered, and when the were heard
out on the ordinary and one of the malefactors.

The left and upper, as if he had combed from recognising there are the friend
or relative.

Some sound than sat on paleness, and there was an minister in part of
his face, which his wild but sunken oculus, and close calculated
locks are conjoin for supply who

Dere Julie:

At last we are in the land made famous by Joan of Ark, and notorious by N. Bonaparty. The little
burg we are billeted in is about as big as a pound of choclates after a Yale-Harvard football
game. It's so small you can stand on the corner of Rue de Main and spit into the country. It
looks like the ornament on a birthday cake or a picture post office card.

We have been hear about 1 week, and would have written sooner but for the second time in the
life of yours truly, I am recovering from "Mal dee Mear" (the name is bad enuff, but the disease
is worse) Third Class passengers call it sea-sickness, but if you have a first class cabin,
you are supposed to call it mal dee mear.

They say its only about 30 miles from Dover to Callay; maybe it is on a calm day, but believe
you me derie, we went up the hills of water to the tune of about a hundred miles. It was all-rite
goin up, but Julie goin down is when everything "comes up." That's if you have anything left
to come up.

The game we played comin over would have been a good trainin fer a prize fiter. We tumbled
round so we looked like we was shadow boxin. "Snappy brand of weather" pipes one of these sailor
guys. He was rite, I never remember givin a better imitation of a whip snapper; and the wind,
Julie dere, the wind which spends its time round the Flatiron and Woolworth Buildings, are
as the poets say "gentle zephers" to that which sweeps across the English channel when a man
sized storm is on; it listens like a cross between the moan of a dyin giastacutus and a subway
express behind time under the East River.

I never before was so glad to set my foot on dri land. I was so tickled I could have kisst
the ground if it had been Hoboken, N. J.U.S.A. Next time they send me to Vive la France, I
hope they send me by parcels post or airoplane. I bumped into the Captain; he said, "I dunno
what to call you," I told him he could call me an ambulance or a taxi, anything to get to land
with. We have been on water so much since we swore our way into the army, that I don't know
whether I'm in the army or navy. Tomorrow me and Skinny is gonna get a pass to look over Paree.
We're lookin forward to a big time with what Skinny calls "Ze gay chansonettes." I don't know
whether he means a disease or a dance, as I don't make this parley-voo much, but I'm gonna
find out before we come back.

With love I am yours until my wrist watch goes 24 hrs without takin a recess,

BARNEY.

P.S. How about my other shirt, did you get it from the Chinks?

Nowhere in France the morning after a night in Paris.

Dere Julie:

So this is Paris. Believe you me, Julie, I don't see why they wanna keep Wilhelm the Twicer
away from this burg; give him 48 hrs. in Paree like the once around the clock we had here and
it would be fare-thee-well Wilhelm. There would be nothin left to say but "don't he look natural."

Speaking of funerals, Julie reminds me that was the first thing we met up with when we arrove
in Paree! Flowers, paul-bearers, an everything. Skinny lowed as how it must be some high and
mitey who had joined his 4 fathers, and asked a Frenchy standing on the curb of the "bull-yard"
who the big guy wuz? Shrugging his shoulders, he pipes up with sumpin which sounded like "Monsewer
Jennyseepah." Well, we didn't ever here of the poor boob, so we went over onto the next Rue
(make that Julie. I'm getting along fine), and we runs slap bang! into a other funeral more
elegant than the first; and Skinny not wantin to let anything get by him, again asked the name
of the guy ridin in the head waggin and he got the same answer "Monsewer Jennyseepah." "Yer
a liar," yelled Skinny, "we just saw his funeral on the other street." Well, Julie, I don't
blame Skinny, I was a little sore myself on the way this guy tried to string us.

We got along seem the sights without much trouble; the toom of Napoleon the Wunst, the bridge
over the Sane, the 4th of July colum and Champ de Lizzie; feelin hungry we drifted into a swell
lookin feedin place with good lookin she waiters. Now don't be nervous Julie, there ain't nothin
gonna happen with me and them Jane's; for believe you me star of my heart, I don't care what
anybody says to me, but you can bet every dollar that Hetty Green ever gave to charity, that
when I do marry, I'm gonna get a dame who bawls me out in language that I understand. Well,
luckily we struck a she waiter who spoke a little American; to put it as she said "I speek
a leetle of what Monsewer calls ze Anglaise." The first thing we ordered was soop. The Jane
brought it in a bowl and had her thum jabbed into it, when Skinny pointed to her thum in the
soop, she grinned and sed "Zats all rite, Monsewer, it is not hot." We got along very well
(considerin that Skinny kept her mind offen her business by trying to send her a eye wireless)
and got down to the desert. You know me Julie, Me for the good old fashioned pies like my ol'
lady makes. Gettin a lamp at what looked like a juicy huckleberry pie, I pointed to it and
said in my company tone of voice "Please give me a big dose of that huckleberry pie." The adroitness
and severe report which i pointed, if i could please help me said at as meriting her interdict
for insensibility what they marked.

Properly, again, i felt a disposition of a activity like the officers, regarding that which i had
antecedently see while leaving the labours on the smith.

Those who will have to execute a gettin are rarely hardly accomplish
their task, and of the gettin the esteem of the spectator.


Dere Julie:

There shure is a bunch of widows over here, Both grass and sod. I say little brighteyes, do
you think it possible fer a guy to get hay fever from a grass widow? Ennyhow Skinny got some
kind uv fever when he was chummin round with these female comfort kits, and if they don't lose
his trail, I can see visions of a certain (what the dickens is that French word for fat--oh
yes, embumpoint), lady in Hoboken, N.J.U.S.A., lookin fer a new affinity. In other words, unless
the signs is misleading, Skinny is gonna lose his liberty by gettin married, and its the opinion
of your "'Lil Brighteyes" that the speech of P. Henry of Va. on "Give me Liberty or give me
deth" was made, more because he was married than because he was patriotic; and all the married
men, I'm told Julie, are chirpin the same wheeze. Of course with you derie, its different.
I don't believe you would accuse a feller of keepin another woman when his pay envelope is
a nickle shy on Sat. night.

Skinny and me had a date with the Pudding Sisters at the canteen last nite, and believe you
me, they was some babies, and was well worth the money we spent on 'em.

Some people we met today from Belgium say that when the Fritzies get soused, they hug and kiss
every woman they meet. What a fat chance for that sweet maiden of fifty years who grabbed me
off at the station, the day I left for camp. You can bet your Wrigleys that after a regiment
passed her she would make a detour and catch up with the head of it again.

Yours until Eyetalian restaurants serve real wine.

BARNEY.

P.S. After readin this letter over I tho't I'd better wise you up on that date me and Skinny
had with the pudding sisters at the canteen last nite. Women are so suspicious you know. I
ment we went down to the canteen to get some puddin, rice and tapioca.

"B."

Dere Julie:

Your last lovin letter was rec'd by your little bright eyes in a quaint old burg in viva la
France, just back of where the Yanks are making soup strainers of William the Twicer's boobs
by punchin them in the kitchen with that "wooden sword of America." You know Julie, that story
that the Emp has been jabbing them in the arm with about "America couldn't fite if she would,
and wouldn't if she could," and tellin em also about Germany's "submarines sinking all the
Yanks transports etcery etcery." If Bill keeps this up very long they will nickname him Barnum.

Speaking of William the Twospot, reminds me of what one of our boys, which was taken prisoner
and escaped, wuz telling about what the Emp said when he saw so many of our boys on the front
at Chato Theiry; sendin fer some of his generals he deemanded they tell him what boat brung
all them Yanks over. One of 'em piped up and sed "I think, yer Majesty it was the Lusitania."
Being German, it went over his bed like a air ship.

The way things are goin now, it looks as if William the Twicer is gonna have a great future
behind him: Skinny sez the Klown Quince and his army reminds him very much of his (Skinny's)
brother who went out west and made twenty Indians run--but the Indians couldn't ketch him.
Believe you me derie, the Boches are running faster than the color in a 19 ct. pair of stockins.
They are hot footin it faster than the train that I left for camp on pulled out of Grand Central
Station; and that pulled out so fast that when I tried to kiss you from the window when she
started, I kissed a cow ten miles away.

Well Julie dere, I miss you much believe you me. Such was the tenor upon his certain being; but when he prayed,
a simple sleepiness would say before him, which it must be confessed hence happen when a white
filled "well doodly-squat" stood of him. Never his poets were little,
and his draughts were long.

