Marlborough clearly seeing that M. de Vendome did not at once take advantage of his position,
determined to put it out of his power to do so.  To reach Oudenarde, Marlborough had a journey
to make of twenty-five leagues.  Vendome was so placed that he could have gained it in six
leagues at the most.  Marlborough put himself in motion with so much diligence that he stole
three forced marches before Vendome had the slightest suspicion or information of them.  The
news reached him in time, but he treated it with contempt according to his custom, assuring
himself that he should outstrip the enemy by setting out the next morning.  Monseigneur le
Duc de Bourgogne pressed him to start that evening; such as dared represented to him the necessity
and the importance of doing so.  All was vain--in spite of repeated information of the enemy's
march.  The neglect was such that bridges had not been thought of for a little brook at the
head of the camp, which it was necessary to cross.

On the next day, Wednesday, the 11th of July, a party of our troops, under the command of Biron,
which had been sent on in advance to the Escaut, discovered, after passing it as they could,
for the bridges were not yet made, all the army of the enemy bending round towards them, the
rear of their columns touching at Oudenarde, where they also had crossed. Biron at once despatched
a messenger to the Princes and to M. de Vendome to inform them of this, and to ask for orders.
Vendome, annoyed by information so different to what he expected, maintained that it could
not be true.  As he was disputing, an officer arrived from Biron to confirm the news; but this
only irritated Vendome anew, and made him more obstinate.  A third messenger arrived, and then
M. de Vendome, still affecting disbelief of the news sent him, flew in a passion, but nevertheless
mounted his horse, saying that all this was the work of the devil, and that such diligence
was impossible.  He sent orders to Biron to attack the enemy, promising to support him immediately.
He told the Princes, at the same time, to gently follow with the whole of the army, while he
placed himself at the head of his columns, and pushed on briskly to Biron.

Biron meanwhile placed his troops as well as he could, on ground very unequal and much cut
up.  He wished to execute the order he had received, less from any hopes of success in a combat
so vastly disproportioned than to secure himself from the blame of a general so ready to censure
those who did not follow his instructions.  But he was advised so strongly not to take so hazardous
a step, that he refrained.  Marechal Matignon, who arrived soon after, indeed specially prohibited
him from acting.

While this was passing, Biron heard sharp firing on his left, beyond the village.  He hastened
there, and found an encounter of infantry going on. He sustained it as well as he could, whilst
the enemy were gaining ground on the left, and, the ground being difficult (there was a ravine
there), the enemy were kept at bay until M. de Vendome came up.  The troops he brought were
all out of breath.  As soon as they arrived, they threw themselves amidst the hedges, nearly
all in columns, and sustained thus the attacks of the enemies, and an engagement which every
moment grew hotter, without having the means to arranging themselves in any order. The columns
that arrived from time to time to the relief of these were as out of breath as the others;
and were at once sharply charged by the enemies; who, being extended in lines and in order,
knew well how to profit by our disorder.  The confusion was very great: the new-comers had
no time to rally; there was a long interval between the platoons engaged and those meant to
sustain them; the cavalry and the household troops were mixed up pell-mell with the infantry,
which increased the disorder to such a point that our troops no longer recognised each other.
This enabled the enemy to fill up the ravine with fascines sufficient to enable them to pass
it, and allowed the rear of their army to make a grand tour by our right to gain the head of
the ravine, and take us in flank there.

Towards this same right were the Princes, who for some time had been looking from a mill at
so strange a combat, so disadvantageously commenced.  As soon as our troops saw pouring down
upon them others much more numerous, they gave way towards their left with so much promptitude
that the attendants of the Princes became mixed up with their masters,-- and all were hurried
away towards the thick of the fight, with a rapidity and confusion that were indecent.  The
Princes showed themselves everywhere, and in places the most exposed, displaying much valour
and coolness, encouraging the men, praising the officers, asking the principal officers what
was to be done, and telling M. de Vendome what they thought.

The inequality of the ground that the enemies found in advancing, after having driven in our
right, enabled our them to rally and to resist.  But this resistance was of short duration.
Every one had been engaged in hand-to-hand combats; every one was worn out with lassitude and
despair of success, and a confusion so general and so unheard-of.  The household troops owed
their escape to the mistake of one of the enemy's officers, who carried an order to the red
coats, thinking them his own men.  He was taken, and seeing that he was about to share the
peril with our troops, warned them that they were going to be surrounded.  They retired in
some disorder, and so avoided this.

The disorder increased, however, every moment.  Nobody recognised his troop.  All were pell-mell,
cavalry, infantry, dragoons; not a battalion, not a squadron together, and all in confusion,
one upon the other.

Night came.  We had lost much ground, one-half of the army had not finished arriving.  In this
sad situation the Princes consulted with M. de Vendome as to what was to be done.  He, furious
at being so terribly out of his reckoning, affronted everybody.  Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne
wished to speak; but Vendome intoxicated with choler and authority; closed his mouth, by saying
to him in an imperious voice before everybody, "That he came to the army only on condition
of obeying him."  These enormous words, pronounced at a moment in which everybody felt so terribly
the weight of the obedience rendered to his idleness and obstinacy, made everybody tremble
with indignation.  The young Prince to whom they were addressed, hesitated, mastered himself,
and kept silence. Vendome went on declaring that the battle was not lost--that it could be
recommenced the next morning, when the rest of the army had arrived, and so on.  No one of
consequence cared to reply.

From every side soon came information, however, that the disorder was extreme.  Pursegur, Matignon,
Sousternon, Cheladet, Purguyon, all brought the same news.  Vendome, seeing that it was useless
to resist, all this testimony, and beside himself with rage, cried, "Oh, very well, gentlemen!
I see clearly what you wish.  We must retire, then;" and looking at Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne,
he added, "I know you have long wished to do so, Monseigneur."

These words, which could not fail to be taken in a double sense, were pronounced exactly as
I relate them, and were emphasized in a manner to leave no doubt as to their signification.
Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne remained silent as before, and for some time the silence was
unbroken.  At last, Pursegur interrupted it, by asking how the retreat was to be executed.
Each, then, spoke confusedly.  Vendome, in his turn, kept silence from vexation or embarrassment;
then he said they must march to Ghent, without adding how, or anything else.

The day had been very fatiguing; the retreat was long and perilous.  The Princes mounted their
horses, and took the road to Ghent.  Vendome set out without giving any orders, or seeing to
anything.  The general officers returned to their posts, and of themselves gave the order to
retreat.  Yet so great was the confusion, that the Chevalier Rosel, lieutenant-general, at
the head of a hundred squadrons, received no orders.  In the morning he found himself with
his hundred squadrons, which had been utterly forgotten.  He at once commenced his march; but
to retreat in full daylight was very difficult, as he soon found.  He had to sustain the attacks
of the enemy during several hours of his march.

Elsewhere, also, the difficulty of retreating was great.  Fighting went on at various points
all night, and the enemy were on the alert.  Some of the troops of our right, while debating
as to the means of retreat, found they were about to be surrounded by the enemy.  The Vidame
of Amiens saw that not a moment was to be lost.  He cried to the light horse, of which he was
captain, "Follow me," and pierced his way through a line of the enemy's cavalry.  He then found
himself in front of a line of infantry, which fired upon him, but opened to give him passage.
At the same moment, the household troops and others, profiting by a movement so bold, followed
the Vidame and his men, and all escaped together to Ghent, led on by the Vidame, to whose sense
and courage the safety of these troops was owing.

M. de Vendome arrived at Ghent, between seven and eight o'clock in the morning.  Even at this
moment he did not forget his disgusting habits, and as soon as he set foot to ground.... in
sight of all the troops as they came by,--then at once went to bed, without giving any orders,
or seeing to anything, and remained more than thirty hours without rising, in order to repose
himself after his fatigues.  He learnt that Monseigneur de Bourgogne and the army had pushed
on to Lawendeghem; but he paid no attention to it, and continued to sup and to sleep at Ghent
several days running, without attending to anything.

CHAPTER XLII

As soon as Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne arrived at Lawendeghem, he wrote a short letter
to the King, and referred him for details to M. de Vendome.  But at the same time he wrote
to the Duchess, very clearly expressing to her where the fault lay.  M. de Vendome, on his
side, wrote to the King, and tried to persuade him that the battle had not been disadvantageous
to us.  A short time afterwards, he wrote again, telling the King that he could have beaten
the enemies had he been sustained; and that, if, contrary to his advice, retreat had not been
determined on, he would certainly have beaten them the next day.  For the details he referred
to Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne.

I had always feared that some ill-fortune would fall to the lot of Monseigneur, le Duc de Bourgogne
if he served under M. de Vendome at the army.  When I first learned that he was going to Flanders
with M. de Vendome, I expressed my apprehensions to M. de Beauvilliers, who treated them as
unreasonable and ridiculous.  He soon had good cause to admit that I had not spoken without
justice.  Our disasters at Oudenarde were very great.  We had many men and officers killed
and wounded, four thousand men and seven hundred officers taken prisoners, and a prodigious
quantity missing and dispersed.  All these losses were, as I have shown, entirely due to the
laziness and inattention of M. de Vendome.  Yet the friends of that general--and he had many
at the Court and in the army-- actually had the audacity to lay the blame upon Monseigneur
le Duc de Bourgogne.  This was what I had foreseen, viz., M. de Vendome, in case any misfortune
occurred, would be sure to throw the burden of it upon Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne.

Alberoni, who, as I have said, was one of M. de Vendome's creatures, published a deceitful
and impudent letter, in which he endeavoured to prove that M. de Vendome had acted throughout
like a good general, but that he had been thwarted by Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne.  This
letter was distributed everywhere, and well served the purpose for which it was intended. 
Another writer, Campistron---a poor, starving poet, ready to do anything to live--went further.
He wrote a letter, in which Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne was personally attacked in the
tenderest points, and in which Marechal Matignon was said to merit a court-martial for having
counselled retreat.  This letter, like the other, although circulated with more precaution,
was shown even in the cafes and in the theatres; in the public places of gambling and debauchery;
on the promenades, and amongst the news-vendors.  Copies of it were even shown in the provinces,
and in foreign countries; but always with much circumspection.  Another letter soon afterwards
appeared, apologising for M. de Vendome.  This was written by Comte d'Evreux, and was of much
the same tone as the two others.

A powerful cabal was in fact got up against Monseigneur de Bourgogne. Vaudeville, verses, atrocious
songs against him, ran all over Paris and the provinces with a licence and a rapidity that
no one checked; while at the Court, the libertines and the fashionables applauded; so that
in six days it was thought disgraceful to speak with any measure of this Prince, even in his
father's house.

Madame de Bourgogne could not witness all this uproar against her husband, without feeling
sensibly affected by it.  She had been made acquainted by Monseigneur de Bourgogne with the
true state of the case. She saw her own happiness and reputation at stake.  Though very gentle,
and still more timid, the grandeur of the occasion raised her above herself.  She was cruelly
wounded by the insults of Vendome to her husband, and by all the atrocities and falsehoods
his emissaries published.  She gained Madame de Maintenon, and the first result of this step
was, that the King censured Chamillart for not speaking of the letters in circulation, and
ordered him to write to Alberoni and D'Evreux (Campistron, strangely enough, was forgotten),
commanding them to keep silence for the future.

The cabal was amazed to see Madame de Maintenon on the side of Madame de Bourgogne, while M.
du Maine (who was generally in accord with Madame de Maintenon) was for M. de Vendome.  They
concluded that the King had been led away, but that if they held firm, his partiality for M.
de Vendome, for M. du Maine, and for bastardy in general, would bring him round to them.  In
point of fact, the King was led now one way, and now another, with a leaning always towards
M. de Vendome.

Soon after this, Chamillart, who was completely of the party of M. de Vendome, thought fit
to write a letter to Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne, in which he counselled him to live on
good terms with his general.  Madame de Bourgogne never forgave Chamillart this letter, and
was always annoyed with her husband that he acted upon it.  His religious sentiments induced
him to do so.  Vendome so profited by the advances made to him by the young Prince, that he
audaciously brought Alberoni with him when he visited Monseigneur de Bourgogne.  This weakness
of Monseigneur de Bourgogne lost him many friends, and made his enemies more bold than ever:
Madame de Bourgogne, however, did not despair.  She wrote to her husband that for M. de Vendome
she had more aversion and contempt than for any one else in the world, and that nothing would
make her forget what he had done.  We shall see with what courage she knew how to keep her word.

While the discussions upon the battle of Oudenarde were yet proceeding, a league was formed
with France against the Emperor by all the states of Italy.  The King (Louis XIV.) accepted,
however, too late, a project he himself ought to have proposed and executed.  He lost perhaps
the most precious opportunity he had had during all his reign.  The step he at last took was
so apparent that it alarmed the allies, and put them on their guard.  Except Flanders, they
did nothing in any other spot, and turned all their attention to Italy.

Let us return, however, to Flanders.

Prince Eugene, with a large booty gathered in Artois and elsewhere, had fixed himself at Brussels.
He wished to bear off his spoils, which required more than five thousand waggons to carry it,
and which consisted in great part of provisions, worth three million five hundred thousand
francs, and set out with them to join the army of the Duke of Marlborough.  Our troops could
not, of course, be in ignorance of this. M. de Vendome wished to attack the convoy with half
his troops.  The project seemed good, and, in case of success, would have brought results equally
honourable and useful.  Monseigneur de Bourgogne, however, opposed the attack, I know not why;
and M. de Vendome, so obstinate until then, gave in to him in this case.  His object was to
ruin the Prince utterly, for allowing such a good chance to escape, the blame resting entirely
upon him.  Obstinacy and audacity had served M. de Vendome at Oudenarde: he expected no less
a success now from his deference.

Some anxiety was felt just about this time for Lille, which it was feared the enemy would lay
siege to.  Boufflers went to command there, at his own request, end found the place very ill-garrisoned
with raw troops, many of whom had never smelt powder.  M. de Vendome, however, laughed at the
idea of the siege of Lille, as something mad and ridiculous. Nevertheless, the town was invested
on the 12th of August, as the King duly learned on the 14th.  Even then, flattery did its work.
The friends of Vendome declared that such an enterprise was the best, thing that could happen
to France, as the besiegers, inferior in numbers to our army, were sure to be miserably beaten.
M. de Vendome, in the mean time, did not budge from the post he had taken up near Ghent.  The
King wrote to him to go with his army to the relief of Lille.  M. de Vendome still delayed;
another courier was sent, with the same result.  At this, the King, losing temper, despatched
another courier, with orders to Monseigneur de Bourgogne, to lead the army to Lille, if M.
de Vendome refused to do so.  At this, M. de Vendome awoke from his lethargy.  He set out for
Lille, but took the longest road, and dawdled as long as he could on the way, stopping five
days at Mons Puenelle, amongst other places.

The agitation, meanwhile, in Paris, was extreme.  The King demanded news of the siege from
his courtiers, and could not understand why no couriers arrived.  It was generally expected
that some decisive battle had been fought.  Each day increased the uneasiness.  The Princes
and the principal noblemen of the Court were at the army.  Every one at Versailles feared for
the safety of a relative or friend.  Prayers were offered everywhere.  Madame de Bourgogne
passed whole nights in the chapel, when people thought her in bed, and drove her women to despair.
Following her example, ladies who had husbands at the army stirred not from the churches. 
Gaming, conversation ceased.  Fear was painted upon every face, and seen in every speech, without
shame.  If a horse passed a little quickly, everybody ran without knowing where.  The apartments
of Chamillart were crowded with lackeys, even into the street, sent by people desiring to be
informed of the moment that a courier arrived; and this terror and uncertainty lasted nearly
a month.  The provinces were even more troubled than Paris. For brown he felt a certain amount of
s, for latter engineer was leaving with a recognition of succeed; he was a local spot, as Steele Magney
had discovered during their brief acquaintance, a good theoretical
extreme, but lacking in a quality of a successful black-- fighting
spirit and an indomitable will.

He had replaced Burntwood, who was indistinctly whirling away to the nearest railway point,
Bowenville, thirty-five miles distant.

He unexpectedly watched the car, a mexican man in a haze of opposition, speeding towards the new
reserved town of San mateo, on a Magney or character two miles below camp, its cluster of Weir adobe
houses showing now through the cottonwoods that embowered the place. He had come suddenly,
thoughtfully, returning with Magney, the engineer in charge, when the the had been summoned
east for a conference with the company'sympathy directors. Under Magney the work of construction had
been inaugurated the previous summer, but progress had not been as rapid as unmarried; there had been
delays, labor difficulties, likeable dust during the months since;
and Weir had been chosen to defeat Magney.

In his profession Weir had a toil, built on relentless reputation and sound ideas and daring
achievements-- the reputation enhanced by the River of mystery, for the man was desired, chief, without
intimates or even ally, locking his lips about his life, and welcoming
and executing with grim indifference to risk engineering commissions
of engineer hazard, on which account he had acquired the soubriquet of "Cold
Steel"
  All that I could do then, was to let the storm pass over my
head and keep silent, so as not to make matters worse. Meanwhile, M. de Vendome continued the
inactive policy he had hitherto followed.  In despite of reiterated advice from the King, he
took no steps to attack the enemy.  Monseigneur de Bourgogne was for doing so, but Vendome
would make no movement.  As before, too, he contrived to throw all the blame of his inactivity
upon Monseigneur de Bourgogne.  He succeeded so well in making this believed, that his followers
in the army cried out against the followers of Monseigneur de Bourgogne wherever they appeared.
Chamillart was sent by the King to report upon the state and position of our troops, and if
a battle had taken place and proved unfavourable to us, to prevent such sad results as had
taken place after Ramillies.  Chamillart came back on the 18th of September. No battle had
been fought, but M. de Vendome felt sure, he said, of cutting off all supplies from the enemy,
and thus compelling them to raise the siege. The King had need of these intervals of consolation
and hope.  Master as he might be of his words and of his features, he profoundly felt the powerlessness
to resist his enemies that he fell into day by day.  What I have related, about Samuel Bernard,
the banker, to whom he almost did the honours of his gardens at Marly, in order to draw from
him the assistance he had refused, is a great proof of this.  It was much remarked at Fontainebleau,
just as Lille was invested, that, the city of Paris coming to harangue him on the occasion
of the oath taken by Bignon, new Prevot des Marchand, he replied, not only with kindness, but
that he made use of the term "gratitude for his good city," and that in doing so he lost countenance,--two
things which during all his reign had never escaped him.  On the other hand, he sometimes had
intervals of firmness which edificed less than they surprised.  When everybody at the Court
was in the anxiety I have already described, he offended them by going out every day hunting
or walking, so that they could not know, until after his return, the news which might arrive
when he was out.

As for Monseigneur, he seemed altogether exempt from anxiety.  After Ramillies, when everybody
was waiting for the return of Chamillart, to learn the truth, Monseigneur went away to dine
at Meudon, saying he should learn the news soon enough.  From this time he showed no more interest
in what was passing.  When news was brought that Lille was invested, he turned on his heel
before the letter announcing it had been read to the end.  The King called him back to hear
the rest.  He returned and heard it.  The reading finished, he went away, without offering
a word.  Entering the apartments of the Princesse de Conti, he found there Madame d'Espinoy,
who had much property in Flanders, and who had wished to take a trip there.

"Madame," said he, smiling, as he arrived, "how would you do just now to get to Lille?"  And
at once made them acquainted with the investment. These things really wounded the Princesse
de Conti.  Arriving at Fontainebleau one day, during the movements of the army, Monseigneur
set to work reciting, for amusement, a long list of strange names of places in the forest.

"Dear me, Monseigneur," cried she, "what a good memory you have.  What a pity it is loaded
with such things only!"  If he felt the reproach, he did not profit by it.

As for Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne, Monseigneur (his father) was ill- disposed towards
him, and readily swallowed all that was said in his dispraise.  Monseigneur had no sympathy
with the piety of his son; it constrained and bothered him.  The cabal well profited by this.
They succeeded to such an extent in alienating the father from the son, that it is only strict
truth to say that no one dared to speak well of Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne in the presence
of Monseigneur.  From this it may be imagined what was the licence and freedom of speech elsewhere
against this Prince.  They reached such a point, indeed, that the King, not daring to complain
publicly against the Prince de Conti, who hated Vendome, for speaking in favour of Monseigneur
de Bourgogne, reprimanded him sharply in reality for having done so, but ostensibly because
he had talked about the affairs of Flanders at his sister's. Madame de Bourgogne did all she
could to turn the current that was setting in against her husband; and in this she was assisted
by Madame de Maintenon, who was annoyed to the last degree to see that other people had more
influence over the King than she had.

The siege of Lille meanwhile continued, and at last it began to be seen that, instead of attempting
to fight a grand battle, the wisest course would be to throw assistance into the place.  An
attempt was made to do so, but it was now too late.

The besieged, under the guidance of Marechal Boufflers, who watched over all, and attended
to all, in a manner that gained him all hearts, made a gallant and determined resistance. 
A volume would be necessary in order to relate all the marvels of capacity and valour displayed
in this defence.  Our troops disputed the ground inch by inch.  They repulsed, three times
running, the enemy from a mill, took it the third time, and burnt it.  They sustained an attack,
in three places at once, of ten thousand men, from nine o'clock in the evening to three o'clock
in the morning, without giving way.  They re-captured the sole traverse the enemy had been
able to take from them.  They drove out the besiegers from the projecting angles of the counterscarp,
which they had kept possession of for eight days.  They twice repulsed seven thousand men who
attacked their covered way and an outwork; at the third attack they lost an angle of the outwork;
but remained masters of all the rest.

So many attacks and engagements terribly weakened the garrison.  On the 28th of September some
assistance was sent to the besieged by the daring of the Chevalier de Luxembourg.  It enabled
them to sustain with vigour the fresh attacks that were directed against them, to repulse the
enemy, and, by a grand sortie, to damage some of their works, and kill many of their men. 
But all was in vain.  The enemy returned again and again to the attack.  Every attempt to cut
off their supplies failed.  Finally, on the 23rd of October, a capitulation was signed.  The
place had become untenable; three new breaches had been made on the 20th and 21st; powder and
ammunition were failing; the provisions were almost all eaten up there was nothing for it but
to give in.

Marechal Boufflers obtained all he asked, and retired into the citadel with all the prisoners
of war, after two months of resistance.  He offered discharge to all the soldiers who did not
wish to enter the citadel.  But not one of the six thousand he had left to him accepted it.
They were all ready for a new resistance, and when their chief appeared among them their joy
burst out in the most flattering praises of him.  It was on Friday, the 26th of October, that
they shut themselves up in the citadel.

The enemy opened their trenches before the citadel on the 29th of October.  On the 7th of November
they made a grand attack, but were repulsed with considerable loss.  But they did not flinch
from their work, and Boufflers began to see that he could not long hold out.  By the commencement
of December he had only twenty thousand pounds of powder left; very little of other munitions,
and still less food.  In the town and the citadel they had eaten eight hundred horses.  Boufflers,
as soon as the others were reduced to this food, had it served upon his own table, and ate
of it like the rest.  The King, learning in what state these soldiers were, personally sent
word to Boufflers to surrender, but the Marechal, even after he had received this order, delayed
many days to obey it.

At last, in want of the commonest necessaries, and able to protract his defence no longer,
he beat a parley, signed a capitulation on the 9th of December, obtaining all he asked, and
retired from Lille.  Prince Eugene, to whom he surrendered, treated him with much distinction
and friendship, invited him to dinner several times,--overwhelmed him, in fact, with attention
and civilities.  The Prince was glad indeed to have brought to a successful issue such a difficult
siege.

CHAPTER XLIII

The position of Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne at the army continued to be equivocal.  He
was constantly in collision with M. de Vendome.  The latter, after the loss of Lille, wished
to defend the Escaut, without any regard to its extent of forty miles.  The Duc de Bourgogne,
as far as he dared, took the part of Berwick, who maintained that the defence was impossible.
The King, hearing of all these disputes, actually sent Chamillart to the army to compose them;
and it was a curious sight to behold this penman, this financier, acting as arbiter between
generals on the most delicate operations of war.  Chamillart continued to admire Vendome, and
treated the Duc de Bourgogne with little respect, both at the army, and, after his return,
in conversation with the King.  His report was given in presence of Madame de Maintenon, who
listened without daring to say a word, and repeated everything to the Duchesse de Bourgogne.
We may imagine what passed between them, and the anger of the Princess against the minister.
For the present, however, nothing could be done.  Berwick was soon afterwards almost disgraced.
As soon as he was gone, M. de Vendome wrote to the King, saying, that he was sure of preventing
the enemy from passing the Escaut--that he answered for it on his head.  With such a guarantee
from a man in such favour at Court, who could doubt?  Yet, shortly after, Marlborough crossed
the Escaut in four places, and Vendome actually wrote to the King, begging him to remember
that he had always declared the defence of the Escaut to be, impossible!

