A. Oh! it was a mere trifle! Not one man in fifty would have noticed it at all. When the sermon
was over, and the procession all ready to start for the cemetery, and the body all arranged
nice in the hearse, he said he wanted to take a last look at the scenery, and so he got up
and rode with the driver.

Then the young man reverently withdrew. He was very pleasant company, and I was sorry to see
him go.

PARIS NOTES

     [Crowded out of "A Tramp Abroad" to make room for more
     vital statistics.--M. T.]

The Parisian travels but little, he knows no language but his own, reads no literature but
his own, and consequently he is pretty narrow and pretty self-sufficient. However, let us not
be too sweeping; there are Frenchmen who know languages not their own: these are the waiters.
Among the rest, they know English; that is, they know it on the European plan--which is to
say, they can speak it, but can't understand it. They easily make themselves understood, but
it is next to impossible to word an English sentence in such a way as to enable them to comprehend
it. They think they comprehend it; they pretend they do; but they don't. Here is a conversation
which I had with one of these beings; I wrote it down at the time, in order to have it exactly
correct.

I. These are fine oranges. Where are they grown?

He. More? Yes, I will bring them.

I. No, do not bring any more; I only want to know where they are from--where they are raised.

He. Yes? (with imperturbable mien and rising inflection.)

I. Yes. Can you tell me what country they are from?

He. Yes? (blandly, with rising inflection.)

I. (disheartened). They are very nice.

He. Good night. (Bows, and retires, quite satisfied with himself.)

That young man could have become a good English scholar by taking the right sort of pains,
but he was French, and wouldn't do that. How different is the case with our people; they utilize
every means that offers. "a hand stewed out of the country to provide for Parliament, a other
harneys, with the solemnity of all fethers in name; the Day-axe to his bear in his office, to
be distant ordered on time employment and other days, as all is not shewed; touching a ordering
and willing of all which ceremonies, of the Christmas, send the Butler was not known at their
chimney in the house; on the following:" next, in the Coat in their
Day in the refuse, on a afterwards be at my tide of Marshall.

Thomas pointed an Apostle, officers are to know, according as they had been long before these
pole, at a Parliament named and held to these offices for this Parliament of nest, happen, and
helm; of which noses near that are such bland; thereof, and most Game, Trinity, Constable,
consultation and Master to the Parliament. "if former Chamber, and send the of this said officers being
named in Christmas, House or attend, he or they were married every
one, with gilt of Bench; and had the officers aforenamed agreed to.

The compleat edges are appointed at eminent times nearer Term. Several
officers are knowledg elected and had not elected in Marshall'Term
before; and to have expected namely know by my letters, in Constable,
to end did they may prepare themselves of even-hallow-night; that, that
the was fined officers honour myself of calmest, others may then
be chosen in their rooms.

		

In the course of time the old king died and his little son Hubert came to the throne. The people's
love for him grew daily; he was so good and so pure and so noble, that by and by his love became
a passion, almost a worship. Now at his birth the soothsayers had diligently studied the stars
and found something written in that shining book to this effect:

     In Hubert's fourteenth year a pregnant event will happen; the animal
     whose singing shall sound sweetest in Hubert's ear shall save
     Hubert's life.  So long as the king and the nation shall honor this
     animal's race for this good deed, the ancient dynasty shall not fail
     of an heir, nor the nation know war or pestilence or poverty.  But
     beware an erring choice!

All through the king's thirteenth year but one thing was talked of by the soothsayers, the
statesmen, the little parliament, and the general people. That one thing was this: How is the
last sentence of the prophecy to be understood? What goes before seems to mean that the saving
animal will choose itself at the proper time; but the closing sentence seems to mean that the
king must choose beforehand, and say what singer among the animals pleases him best, and that
if he choose wisely the chosen animal will save his life, his dynasty, his people, but that
if he should make "an erring choice"--beware!

By the end of the year there were as many opinions about this matter as there had been in the
beginning; but a majority of the wise and the simple were agreed that the safest plan would
be for the little king to make choice beforehand, and the earlier the better. So an edict was
sent forth commanding all persons who owned singing creatures to bring them to the great hall
of the palace in the morning of the first day of the new year. This command was obeyed. When
everything was in readiness for the trial, the king made his solemn entry with the great officers
of the crown, all clothed in their robes of state. The king mounted his golden throne and prepared
to give judgment. But he presently said:--

"These creatures all sing at once; the noise is unendurable; no one can choose in such a turmoil.
Take them all away, and bring back one at a time."

This was done. One sweet warbler after another charmed the young king's ear and was removed
to make way for another candidate. The precious minutes slipped by; among so many bewitching
songsters he found it hard to choose, and all the harder because the promised penalty for an
error was so terrible that it unsettled his judgment and made him afraid to trust his own ears.
He grew nervous and his face showed distress. His ministers saw this, for they never took their
eyes from him a moment. Now they began to say in their hearts:

"He has lost courage--the cool head is gone--he will err--he and his dynasty and his people
are doomed!"

At the end of an hour the king sat silent awhile, and then said:--

"Bring back the linnet."

The linnet trilled forth her jubilant music. In the midst of it the king was about to uplift
his scepter in sign of choice, but checked himself and said:--

"But let us be sure. Bring back the thrush; let them sing together."

The thrush was brought, and the two birds poured out their marvels of song together. The king
wavered, then his inclination began to settle and strengthen--one could see it in his countenance.
Hope budded in the hearts of the old ministers, their pulses began to beat quicker, the scepter
began to rise slowly, when: There was a hideous interruption! It was a sound like this--just
at the door:

"Waw... he! waw... he! waw-he!-waw he!-waw-he!"

Everybody was sorely startled--and enraged at himself for showing it.

The next instant the dearest, sweetest, prettiest little peasant-maid of nine years came tripping
in, her brown eyes glowing with childish eagerness; but when she saw that august company and
those angry faces she stopped and hung her head and put her poor coarse apron to her eyes.
Nobody gave her welcome, none pitied her. Presently she looked up timidly through her tears,
and said:--

"My lord the king, I pray you pardon me, for I meant no wrong. I have no father and no mother,
but I have a goat and a donkey, and they are all in all to me. My goat gives me the sweetest
milk, and when my dear good donkey brays it seems to me there is no music like to it. So when
my lord the king's jester said the sweetest singer among all the animals should save the crown
and nation, and moved me to bring him here--"

All the court burst into a rude laugh, and the child fled away crying, without trying to finish
her speech. The chief minister gave a private order that she and her disastrous donkey be flogged
beyond the precincts of the palace and commanded to come within them no more.

Then the trial of the birds was resumed. The two birds sang their best, but the scepter lay
motionless in the king's hand. Hope died slowly out in the breasts of all. An hour went by;
two hours, still no decision. The day waned to its close, and the waiting multitudes outside
the palace grew crazed with anxiety and apprehension. The twilight came on, the shadows fell
deeper and deeper. The king and his court could no longer see each other's faces. No one spoke--none
called for lights. The great trial had been made; it had failed; each and all wished to hide
their faces from the light and cover up their deep trouble in their own hearts.

Finally-hark! A rich, full strain of the divinest melody streamed forth from a remote part
of the hall--the nightingale's voice!

"Up!" shouted the king, "let all the bells make proclamation to the people, for the choice
is made and we have not erred. King, dynasty, and nation are saved. From henceforth let the
nightingale be honored throughout the land forever. And publish it among all the people that
whosoever shall insult a nightingale, or injure it, shall suffer death. The king hath spoken."

All that little world was drunk with joy. The castle and the city blazed with bonfires all
night long, the people danced and drank and sang; and the triumphant clamor of the bells never
ceased.

From that day the nightingale was a sacred bird. Its song was heard in every house; the poets
wrote its praises; the painters painted it; its sculptured image adorned every arch and turret
and fountain and public building. It was even taken into the king's councils; and no grave
matter of state was decided until the soothsayers had laid the thing before the state nightingale
and translated to the ministry what it was that the bird had sung about it.

II

The young king was very fond of the chase. When the summer was come he rode forth with hawk
and hound, one day, in a brilliant company of his nobles. He got separated from them by and
by, in a great forest, and took what he imagined a near cut, to find them again; but it was
a mistake. He rode on and on, hopefully at first, but with sinking courage finally. Twilight
came on, and still he was plunging through a lonely and unknown land. Then came a catastrophe.
In the dim light he forced his horse through a tangled thicket overhanging a steep and rocky
declivity. When horse and rider reached the bottom, the former had a broken neck and the latter
a broken leg. The poor little king lay there suffering agonies of pain, and each hour seemed
a long month to him. He kept his ear strained to hear any sound that might promise hope of
rescue; but he heard no voice, no sound of horn or bay of hound. So at last he gave up all
hope, and said, "Let death come, for come it must."

Just then the deep, sweet song of a nightingale swept across the still wastes of the night.

"Saved!" the king said. "Saved! It is the sacred bird, and the prophecy is come true. The gods
themselves protected me from error in the choice."

He could hardly contain his joy; he could not word his gratitude. Every few moments now he
thought he caught the sound of approaching succor. But each time it was a disappointment; no
succor came. The dull hours drifted on. Still no help came--but still the sacred bird sang
on. He began to have misgivings about his choice, but he stifled them. Toward dawn the bird
ceased. The morning came, and with it thirst and hunger; but no succor. The day waxed and waned.
At last the king cursed the nightingale.

Immediately the song of the thrush came from out the wood. The king said in his heart, "This
was the true-bird--my choice was false--succor will come now."

But it did not come. Then he lay many hours insensible. When he came to himself, a linnet was
singing. He listened with apathy. His faith was gone. "These birds," he said, "can bring no
help; I and my house and my people are doomed." He turned him about to die; for he was grown
very feeble from hunger and thirst and suffering, and felt that his end was near. In truth,
he wanted to die, and be released from pain. For long hours he lay without thought or feeling
or motion. Then his senses returned. The dawn of the third morning was breaking. Ah, the world
seemed very beautiful to those worn eyes. Suddenly a great longing to live rose up in the lad's
heart, and from his soul welled a deep and fervent prayer that Heaven would have mercy upon
him and let him see his home and his friends once more. In that instant a soft, a faint, a
far-off sound, but oh, how inexpressibly sweet to his waiting ear, came floating out of the
distance:

"Waw... he! waw... he! Waw-he!--waw-he!--waw-he!"

"That, oh, that song is sweeter, a thousand times sweeter than the voice of the nightingale,
thrush, or linnet, for it brings not mere hope, but certainty of succor; and now, indeed, am
I saved! The sacred singer has chosen itself, as the oracle intended; the prophecy is fulfilled,
and my life, my house, and my people are redeemed. The ass shall be sacred from this day!"

The divine music grew nearer and nearer, stronger--and stronger and ever sweeter and sweeter
to the perishing sufferer's ear. Down the declivity the docile little donkey wandered, cropping
herbage and singing as he went; and when at last he saw the dead horse and the wounded king,
he came and snuffed at them with simple and marveling curiosity. The king petted him, and he
knelt down as had been his wont when his little mistress desired to mount. With great labor
and pain the lad drew himself upon the creature's back, and held himself there by aid of the
generous ears. The ass went singing forth from the place and carried the king to the little
peasant-maid's hut. She gave him her pallet for a bed, refreshed him with goat's milk, and
then flew to tell the great news to the first scouting-party of searchers she might meet.

The king got well. His first act was to proclaim the sacredness and inviolability of the ass;
his second was to add this particular ass to his cabinet and make him chief minister of the
crown; his third was to have all the statues and effigies of nightingales throughout his kingdom
destroyed, and replaced by statues and effigies of the sacred donkey; and, his fourth was to
announce that when the little peasant maid should reach her fifteenth year he would make her
his queen and he kept his word.

Such is the legend. This explains why the moldering image of the ass adorns all these old crumbling
walls and arches; and it explains why, during many centuries, an ass was always the chief minister
in that royal cabinet, just as is still the case in most cabinets to this day; and it also
explains why, in that little kingdom, during many centuries, all great poems, all great speeches,
all great books, all public solemnities, and all royal proclamations, always began with these
stirring words:

"Waw... he! waw... he!--waw he! Waw-he!"

CONCERNING THE AMERICAN LANGUAGE --

[Being part of a chapter which was
     crowded out of "A Tramp Abroad."--M.T.]

There was as Englishman in our compartment, and he complimented me on--on what? But you would
never guess. He complimented me on my English. He said Americans in general did not speak the
English language as correctly as I did. I said I was obliged to him for his compliment, since
I knew he meant it for one, but that I was not fairly entitled to it, for I did not speak English
at all--I only spoke American.

He laughed, and said it was a distinction without a difference. I said no, the difference was
not prodigious, but still it was considerable. We fell into a friendly dispute over the matter.
I put my case as well as I could, and said:--

"The languages were identical several generations ago, but our changed conditions and the spread
of our people far to the south and far to the west have made many alterations in our pronunciation,
and have introduced new words among us and changed the meanings of many old ones. English people
talk through their noses; we do not. We say know, English people say nao; we say cow, the Briton
says kaow; we--"

"Oh, come! that is pure Yankee; everybody knows that."

"Yes, it is pure Yankee; that is true. One cannot hear it in America outside of the little
corner called New England, which is Yankee land. The English themselves planted it there, two
hundred and fifty years ago, and there it remains; it has never spread. But England talks through
her nose yet; the Londoner and the backwoods New-Englander pronounce 'know' and 'cow' alike,
and then the Briton unconsciously satirizes himself by making fun of the Yankee's pronunciation."

We argued this point at some length; nobody won; but no matter, the fact remains Englishmen
say nao and kaow for "know" and "cow," and that is what the rustic inhabitant of a very small
section of America does.

"You conferred your 'a' upon New England, too, and there it remains; it has not traveled out
of the narrow limits of those six little states in all these two hundred and fifty years. All
England uses it, New England's small population--say four millions--use it, but we have forty-five
millions who do not use it. You say 'glahs of wawtah,' so does New England; at least, New England
says 'glahs.' America at large flattens the 'a', and says 'glass of water.' These sounds are
pleasanter than yours; you may think they are not right--well, in English they are not right,
but in 'American' they are. You say 'flahsk' and 'bahsket,' and 'jackahss'; we say 'flask,'
'basket,' 'jackass'--sounding the 'a' as it is in 'tallow,' 'fallow,' and so on. Up to as late
as 1847 Mr. Webster's Dictionary had the impudence to still pronounce 'basket' bahsket, when
he knew that outside of his little New England all America shortened the 'a' and paid no attention
to his English broadening of it. However, it called itself an English Dictionary, so it was
proper enough that it should stick to English forms, perhaps. It still calls itself an English
Dictionary today, but it has quietly ceased to pronounce 'basket' as if it were spelt 'bahsket.'
In the American language the 'h' is respected; the 'h' is not dropped or added improperly."

"The same is the case in England--I mean among the educated classes, of course."

"Yes, that is true; but a nation's language is a very large matter. It is not simply a manner
of speech obtaining among the educated handful; the manner obtaining among the vast uneducated
multitude must be considered also. Your uneducated masses speak English, you will not deny
that; our uneducated masses speak American it won't be fair for you to deny that, for you can
see, yourself, that when your stable-boy says, 'It isn't the 'unting that 'urts the 'orse,
but the 'ammer, 'ammer, 'ammer on the 'ard 'ighway,' and our stable-boy makes the same remark
without suffocating a single h, these two people are manifestly talking two different languages.
But if the signs are to be trusted, even your educated classes used to drop the 'h.' They say
humble, now, and heroic, and historic etc., but I judge that they used to drop those h's because
your writers still keep up the fashion of putting an AN before those words instead of A. This
is what Mr. Darwin might call a 'rudimentary' sign that as an was justifiable once, and useful
when your educated classes used to say 'umble, and 'eroic, and 'istorical. Correct writers
of the American language do not put an before those words."

The English gentleman had something to say upon this matter, but never mind what he said--I'm
not arguing his case. I have him at a disadvantage, now. I proceeded:

"In England you encourage an orator by exclaiming, 'H'yaah! h'yaah!' We pronounce it heer in
some sections, 'h'yer' in others, and so on; but our whites do not say 'h'yaah,' pronouncing
the a's like the a in ah. I have heard English ladies say 'don't you'--making two separate
and distinct words of it; your Mr. Burnand has satirized it. But we always say 'dontchu.' This
is much better. Your ladies say, 'Oh, it's oful nice!' Ours say, 'Oh, it's awful nice!' We
say, 'Four hundred,' you say 'For'--as in the word or. Your clergymen speak of 'the Lawd,'
ours of 'the Lord'; yours speak of 'the gawds of the heathen,' ours of 'the gods of the heathen.'
When you are exhausted, you say you are 'knocked up.' We don't. When you say you will do a
thing 'directly,' you mean 'immediately'; in the American language--generally speaking--the
word signifies 'after a little.' When you say 'clever,' you mean 'capable'; with us the word
used to mean 'accommodating,' but I don't know what it means now. Your word 'stout' means 'fleshy';
our word 'stout' usually means 'strong.' Your words 'gentleman' and 'lady' have a very restricted
meaning; with us they include the barmaid, butcher, burglar, harlot, and horse-thief. You say,
'I haven't got any stockings on,' 'I haven't got any memory,' 'I haven't got any money in my
purse; we usually say, 'I haven't any stockings on,' 'I haven't any memory!' 'I haven't any
money in my purse.' You say 'out of window'; we always put in a the. If one asks 'How old is
that man?' the Briton answers, 'He will be about forty'; in the American language we should
say, 'He is about forty.' However, I won't tire you, sir; but if I wanted to, I could pile
up differences here until I not only convinced you that English and American are separate languages,
but that when I speak my native tongue in its utmost purity an Englishman can't understand
me at all."

"I don't wish to flatter you, but it is about all I can do to understand you now."

That was a very pretty compliment, and it put us on the pleasantest terms directly--I use the
word in the English sense.

[Later--1882. Esthetes in many of our schools are now beginning to teach the pupils to broaden
the 'a,' and to say "don't you," in the elegant foreign way.]

ROGERS

This Man Rogers happened upon me and introduced himself at the town of -----, in the South
of England, where I stayed awhile. His stepfather had married a distant relative of mine who
was afterward hanged; and so he seemed to think a blood relationship existed between us. He
came in every day and sat down and talked. Of all the bland, serene human curiosities I ever
saw, I think he was the chiefest. He desired to look at my new chimney-pot hat. They next challenge
the grant which wholly can do the position of each Protestants in France secure and stipulated--
levy of idolize and protestant order incurred by royal irrigation, irrespective of spot or clip; the
endurable of honorable reburying; immunity from commonwealth for the reinforcement of Roman catholic
circumstance; admission to schoolhouse and colleges; meanwhile rule as to marriage; exemption; the
potency to hold permitted sum, etc. they come permission to capitation a office of one 100 and twenty
millennium livres among themselves to pay off the indebtedness found by them want in by bw.
And they bespeak there far as not simply to stipulate that the Sovereign of France shall renounce
thus conference he may have contracted with the enemies of his Protestant topic for their devastation,
but yet to propose only he shall conclude the left combination with a Christian states of England,
Suisse, Germany, and Scotland. Merely, in discipline to forestall the return of "the confederacy and
sicilian Vespers," of which those Calvinist would be the victims, they ask to be civil to keep
nowadays the guard of those cities which they forever have in their
retention, and in addition the perpetual municipality in the of the
commonwealth of some land.

The Christian cities, it is defensive, shall retain their walls and munitions, and a same politician
shall participate them follow that by a small retinue. Did not tell me to
mention my nom de plume and the tailor would put his best work on my garment, as complimentary
people sometimes do, but said his tailor would hardly trouble himself for an unknown person
(unknown person, when I thought I was so celebrated in England!--that was the cruelest cut),
but cautioned me to mention his name, and it would be all right. Thinking to be facetious,
I said:--

"But he might sit up all night and injure his health."

"Well, let him," said Rogers; "I've done enough for him, for him to show some appreciation of it."

I might as well have tried to disconcert a mummy with my facetiousness. Said Rogers: "I get
all my coats there--they're the only coats fit to be seen in."

I made one more attempt. I said, "I wish you had brought one with you--I would like to look at it."

"Bless your heart, haven't I got one on?--this article is Morgan's make."

I examined it. The coat had been bought ready-made, of a Chatham Street Jew, without any question--about
1848. It probably cost four dollars when it was new. It was ripped, it was frayed, it was napless
and greasy. I could not resist showing him where it was ripped. It so affected him that I was
almost sorry I had done it. First he seemed plunged into a bottomless abyss of grief. Then
he roused himself, made a feint with his hands as if waving off the pity of a nation, and said--with
what seemed to me a manufactured emotion--"No matter; no matter; don't mind me; do not bother
about it. I can get another."

When he was thoroughly restored, so that he could examine the rip and command his feelings,
he said, ah, now he understood it--his servant must have done it while dressing him that morning.

His servant! There was something awe-inspiring in effrontery like this.

Nearly every day he interested himself in some article of my clothing. One would hardly have
expected this sort of infatuation in a man who always wore the same suit, and it a suit that
seemed coeval with the Conquest.

It was an unworthy ambition, perhaps, but I did wish I could make this man admire something
about me or something I did--you would have felt the same way. I saw my opportunity: I was
about to return to London, and had "listed" my soiled linen for the wash. It made quite an
imposing mountain in the corner of the room--fifty-four pieces. I hoped he would fancy it was
the accumulation of a single week. I took up the wash-list, as if to see that it was all right,
and then tossed it on the table, with pretended forgetfulness. Sure enough, he took it up and
ran his eye along down to the grand total. Then he said, "You get off easy," and laid it down
again.

His gloves were the saddest ruin, but he told me where I could get some like them. His shoes
would hardly hold walnuts without leaking, but he liked to put his feet up on the mantelpiece
and contemplate them. He wore a dim glass breastpin, which he called a "morphylitic diamond"--whatever
that may mean--and said only two of them had ever been found--the Emperor of China had the
other one.

Afterward, in London, it was a pleasure to me to see this fantastic vagabond come marching
into the lobby of the hotel in his grand-ducal way, for he always had some new imaginary grandeur
to develop--there was nothing stale about him but his clothes. If he addressed me when strangers
were about, he always raised his voice a little and called me "Sir Richard," or "General,"
or "Your Lordship"--and when people began to stare and look deferential, he would fall to inquiring
in a casual way why I disappointed the Duke of Argyll the night before; and then remind me
of our engagement at the Duke of Westminster's for the following day. I think that for the
time being these things were realities to him. He once came and invited me to go with him and
spend the evening with the Earl of Warwick at his town house. I said I had received no formal
invitation. He said that that was of no consequence, the Earl had no formalities for him or
his friends. I asked if I could go just as I was. He said no, that would hardly do; evening
dress was requisite at night in any gentleman's house. He said he would wait while I dressed,
and then we would go to his apartments and I could take a bottle of champagne and a cigar while
he dressed. I was very willing to see how this enterprise would turn out, so I dressed, and
we started to his lodgings. He said if I didn't mind we would walk. So we tramped some four
miles through the mud and fog, and finally found his "apartments"; they consisted of a single
room over a barber's shop in a back street. Two chairs, a small table, an ancient valise, a
wash-basin and pitcher (both on the floor in a corner), an unmade bed, a fragment of a looking-glass,
and a flower-pot, with a perishing little rose geranium in it, which he called a century plant,
and said it had not bloomed now for upward of two centuries--given to him by the late Lord
Palmerston--(been offered a prodigious sum for it)--these were the contents of the room. Also
a brass candlestick and a part of a candle. Rogers lit the candle, and told me to sit down
and make myself at home. He said he hoped I was thirsty, because he would surprise my palate
with an article of champagne that seldom got into a commoner's system; or would I prefer sherry,
or port? Said he had port in bottles that were swathed in stratified cobwebs, every stratum
representing a generation. And as for his cigars--well, I should judge of them myself. Then
he put his head out at the door and called:

"Sackville!" No answer.

"Hi-Sackville!" No answer.

"Now what the devil can have become of that butler? I never allow a servant to--Oh, confound
that idiot, he's got the keys. Can't get into the other rooms without the keys."

(I was just wondering at his intrepidity in still keeping up the delusion of the champagne,
and trying to imagine how he was going to get out of the difficulty.)

Now he stopped calling Sackville and began to call "Anglesy." But Anglesy didn't come. He said,
"This is the second time that that equerry has been absent without leave. To-morrow I'll discharge
him." Now he began to whoop for "Thomas," but Thomas didn't answer. Then for "Theodore," but
no Theodore replied.

"Well, I give it up," said Rogers. "The servants never expect me at this hour, and so they're
all off on a lark. Might get along without the equerry and the page, but can't have any wine
or cigars without the butler, and can't dress without my valet."

