The men at the controls knew what reaction would take place by movement of a lever, but didn't
understand why! Dick became slightly worried about reaching their destination--it was beyond
all reason. Earthmen wouldn't have attempted to operate equipment they knew nothing about,
by movement of controls to obtain the proper action.

It was no wonder these people had found it necessary to find engineers to run their machines!

Months slipped by as the ship moved steadily toward the giant planet. Every piece of equipment
seemed to be the answer to perfection. This voyage had taught them more about mechanics than
was covered in a complete engineering course on earth. It was of a far different kind, with
gravity the basis of all operation. Even the space ship employed some of the same power, drawn
from the nearest heavy body, then amplified until it reached enormous proportions.[1]

Peter Yarbro was a practical chemist, and spent many hours trying to analyze the fuel. It was
highly inflammable, yet could stand terrific compression without effect. When it was allowed
to expand again, it reached the flash point immediately, creating enormous amounts of heavy
gas. He believed it might be duplicated from crude oil, properly refined.

When Dick learned that there was a history of the space ship, in the metal books, his curiosity
was aroused. He could read the language of the domes slightly, but not enough to study the
intricate explanations. It was through these books that the dome men had learned to control
the ship, and set the course for any desired planet.

Morquil's aid was enlisted, to translate the text, and he learned some amazing facts. A description
of the fuel was given, but the base for manufacture was unknown, being of natural origin on
Jupiter. As Morquil read farther and explained sections that Dick couldn't understand, the
earthman felt uneasy.

The crew had abandoned all hope of returning to their home planet, the first time they started
from the earth. They didn't understand what it meant to feel responsible for equipment. They
manufactured enough fuel for two trips, according to the rating of consumption in the books--but
Dick wondered?

The tanks were filled to capacity before the first trip, and hadn't been tested since. The
happy dome people didn't consider that their ancestors might have been mistaken, or that actual
operation might vary from the original plan.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the first time in twenty years, the gauges were examined. Barrow and McCarthy crawled through
the dust-coated passage beneath the floor of the machinery hold. They found a light switch,
but the bulbs were so dust-coated that only a faint glow shed on the surrounding metal. They
sneezed and coughed, as the dust-laden air filled their lungs.

"Darned if you don't get the craziest ideas, Dick. What good will it do to know how much 'ship
juice' there is, anyway? We can't make it! This hole wasn't built for self-respecting men to
crawl through."

"I don't know, John, but this trip may not be as easy as it appears. They've been driving at
full force for months, when it seems to me that less power might carry us when we're not within
the pull of some planet. I want to make sure that there's plenty of fuel. According to the
books, the designers didn't expect the ship to be driven this hard."

John did a little cussing when they located the gauges, and found them so thick with grime
that they had to be cleaned. He headed back through the dust for a cloth, with Dick's laugh
following. "Alright, alright, but don't rub it in. Just because you happened to be in front
of me, and there isn't room to pass, don't give you the right to laugh. Some day you'll be
eating your share of dust, and will I laugh! I bet that the domes are all a mess."

Dick wrote down the reading of each gauge, as John cleaned the surfaces. He couldn't understand
the strange numerals, and had to go over them with Morquil. Both men breathed a sigh of relief
as they crawled back through the floor of the hold, and dropped the trap door in place.

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later Dick began to worry. According to Morquil, the tanks were less than one-eighth
full. The big-headed man had gone over the figures twice, and was showing signs of agitation
as he checked them again at Barrow's request. When he glanced up, Dick knew there was no mistake.

"The fuel is low Dick. According to the other trip, the greatest use of power is at the time
we approach the planet, to fight the pull of gravity. Our trip from earth is only half completed,
with the greatest need of fuel still ahead. You must think my race very stupid not to have
thought of it?"

It took Dick a long time to answer. His mind was searching frantically for some solution. It
was useless to ask help of the crew--they couldn't even think scientifically!

"No, Morquil. I don't think you're stupid, but I do consider your people very foolish. From
the appearance of things we will never reach the domes!

"Unless something drastic is accomplished, the ship will smash to pieces on your planet. You
don't know anything about the ship's operation, and we've only studied it for a short time."

They decided to inform the men immediately but say nothing to the women for the present. Within
an hour of the discovery, Morquil warned the men at the controls to conserve the power as much
as possible.

Every operation of the ship, was dependent on fuel. The generators for heat, light and controls,
were turned by discharge through the tubes. At least one blast must be fired at all times to
keep the controls sensitized, and develop power for emergency equipment. The other tubes were
silenced.

During the rest migs Dick couldn't sleep, but spent every minute talking to John McCarthy.
There must be some solution--and they had to find it!

CHAPTER VI

An Engineer's Mettle

In the morning the earthmen were called together. They came with smiling faces, which slowly
changed to apprehension.

There were many suggestions in as many minutes, but none that gave a possibility of accomplishing
the impossible. They had to stretch the fuel--without visible means of stretching it!

The women believed the meeting was a routine course in mechanics, and went on enjoying their
entertainment. The men explained they were bothered by a knotty question about the machinery
to account for their worried concentration. It would have been a terrible handicap if the women
discovered the truth.

Three lix passed with little change. The fuel had been cut down for a while, but the ship didn't
hold its course. Every tube had been fired to hold the direct route for Jupiter. They were
constantly cutting into the meager supply that remained--and had to overcome the deficiency!

Due to the slight conservation of fuel the ship had been operating far below efficiency, and
the cold of space began to seep through the walls. This affected the dome people more than
the earthmen, and they suffered torture. Any change in temperature was unknown to them, they
were chilled at a few degrees below normal heat.

Suddenly, during dinner on the third evening, Peter Yarbro jumped up from the table. The other
men fastened eager eyes on his face, while the women watched in amazement.

He started to speak, then remembered the women, sat down quietly. "I--I think I've found the
answer--to our problem! If you will join me in the hold, when we finish eating, I would like
to talk it over with you."

Mrs. Yarbro was even more amazed. "Peter! I'm surprised at you. Jumping up from the table so
excited, just because you happened to think of the answer to a problem! You ought to be ashamed."

In spite of his worries Dick lowered his head to hide the smile. If only Peter's wife knew
what that problem was, she might not think it so strange.

Hardly a man touched his food, and as soon as they were out of earshot of the women, he spoke
what was in his mind. The crew heard him at the table and many of them gathered to listen.
For the first time in their lives they were worried. Their lives depended on the earthmen before
they even reached their planet.

Yarbro hesitated. "I'm not so sure now, that I have found the answer. When it came to me, I
thought it was simple, but now it seems more like a dream.

"Since knowing that the fuel was low I've racked my brain for something that might be used--and
it had to be on the ship. Every other man was looking for a mechanical answer, and my efforts
would be of little use. So I've searched for a chemical.

"Water is the only liquid in any quantity. I discarded it so many times that it left a headache,
but my search always came back to the same place. It's the only thing we've got.

"All other liquids are in too small amounts, even if they could be used, and the ship is equipped
only for chemical fuel--in liquid form!

"At dinner when I became so excited, I thought that water would do the trick. Now I don't know.
It has oxygen in large amounts, which is vitally needed, but that's the only advantage.

"Even if we dared try, it might injure the tubes. Still I believe it's the only chance of salvation.
It's the one substance on board, in any large quantity. What do you think?"

There wasn't a sound as the minutes passed. Each man searched frantically for the slightest
hope; searched for the one chance in a thousand!

Dick finally broke the silence. "What is your plan, Peter? You must have thought of something?"

"No, that's just the trouble. I thought that water might mix with the fuel, even fire with
it. It was only a brain storm I'm afraid."

After a moment Dick spoke again. "It can't be! Since there is no other substance--we must use
water! There has to be a way--and we've got to find it! We might as well use up the water and
die of thirst, as to drift around in space until we starve to death, or die in the dive at
Jupiter."

Twice Mrs. Martin came down the ramp to take her husband to bed, but Dick sent her away. The
men would stay there until they had found a solution--they had to! The fuel was fast disappearing!

       *       *       *       *       *

Morquil still sat in the background. The other men from Jupiter had gone to their quarters.
He could offer no suggestion, but listened carefully to every word they spoke. Finally he stood up.

"I hope that you can forgive me. In the last three lixs I have regretted that I ever saw your
earth. It were better that my people die, than for us to carry people from a happy planet to
die in space--because of our stupidity. We are no better than children without cares or worries.
The men of the crew realized the risk, before they left the domes--but it is not your fault!"

"Aw, sit down you big-headed numbskull!" McCarthy's voice boomed out. "We don't blame you!
We'll find some way to run this crate, and get there in one piece. You just made us go to work
before we expected. Why! A problem like this is simple on earth--they'd solve it in no time!
You just go to bed and stop worrying. We'll have everything fixed by morning."

Morquil's expression changed slightly, and he almost smiled. He started for the ramp as if
taking the words literally, but half way up he faced the little gathering again. "Thank you,
John. But I haven't forgotten that you were a famous liar in your home town--and you haven't
lost your ability. Thank you anyway, you're very kind."

When McCarthy turned toward the others, he looked rather sheepish. But the forced smiles he
received made him feel a lot better.

Hours passed, while each man told everything he had known about water. At last Dick stood up.
"We've covered every possible reaction, and many that are seemingly impossible, but have overlooked
one very vital point that will either help or hinder greatly.

"The fuel is subjected to terrific pressure. Naturally, any water that was used would receive
the same treatment. In the compression chamber the pressure rises very fast, which must develop
high temperature. The result is that we would not have water--we'd have steam! It would be
almost dry steam!

"Water in the liquid form couldn't discharge oxygen fast enough to affect the fuel, but as
steam it might. There is a good chance that steam may even increase the explosive power to
a point that we can't even imagine. There's only one way to find out--try it!

"Every man here will admit that John has the most practical mechanical brain. It will be his
job to find a means of injecting the water in the proper amounts. The rest of us can try to
find any kinks in the system that he suggests. He knows every piece of equipment on board,
and can pick whatever is best suited for the purpose."

As Dick sat down, John got to his feet. "This is one time that I'm ahead of you. While you've
been talking I've been planning a way to do just that. There's an extra firing tube that can
hold the pressure we want.

"Fuel for all the blasts is compressed in one chamber, then discharged through any desired
tube. If we put the water under the pressure, with the hydraulic system, and let it seep into
the chamber at a set rate--it might work! Valves can control the steam perfectly, and regulate
the flow to whatever is desired.

"The tube will have to be shut off from the fuel tank every few hours, to be filled. Preheating
the water will develop steam pressure, and it won't draw enough from the hydraulic system to
affect the operation of the blasts.

"What do you say, shall we try it? It means shutting off all but the emergency tube for several
hours, and it will be cold!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Within five minutes they were hauling the heavy tube from the storage room. In an hour everything
was ready to assemble, and each man knew exactly what work he was to do. A pipe line was run
from the water tanks, to fill the steam chamber in position.

Dick was building an electric heating unit to encase the entire tube, which could be regulated
for any desired temperature.

Half of the rest period had passed when the chamber was finished and they were ready to cut
an opening in the compression unit. Perspiration poured down the body of every man, but not
from the exertion. Each minute that passed ate deeper into the fuel. If water couldn't replace
the liquid, they were helpless.

They wanted to install the tube, while the women were asleep. The ship would be too cold for
comfort for a long time after the blasts could be started again. When the heating units in
the hull were shut off it would become freezing inside.

Men raced through the ship, stopping at their staterooms on the way. Dick dropped three extra
covers over Dolores without disturbing her, then slipped into the heaviest clothing that he owned.

Each man was occupied in his own room, in the same way. Heavy coats were taken to the men at
the controls while the remainder of the crew were sent to a room with an emergency heating unit.

In fifteen minutes they were back at the compression chamber, and at the touch of a button
the blasts were silenced from the control room.

By the time an opening was cut in the heavy tanks, the cold had begun to creep into the ship.
The men worked desperately, and for a while perspiration dampened their clothing. Then the
chill crept deeper--and they shivered. Their fingers grew numb, and they had to warm them over
a small electric unit, but the opening slowly enlarged beneath their torches.

When the tube was fitted into the hole, and the metal began to flow around the edges, even
the torches seemed to throw little heat. Dick knew his nose was frosted, and warned the others
not to touch their nose or ears. According to John's watch it required three hours to fit the
tube in place.

When they rang for the power to be turned on, they waited in vain. When minutes passed without
reaction, they glanced at each other in consternation. Brown and Martin raced up the ramp while
the others waited. Within a few minutes the tubes began to fire and warmth slowly drove back
the numbing cold.

Water pipes had burst, and they hurried to stop the leaks. The main tanks were uninjured, as
the cold hadn't penetrated the big supplies in storage.

Dick suddenly realized that Brown and Martin hadn't returned. When he reached the upper deck
all of the women were gathered near the room where the crew had been left. The thermometer
was only fifty degrees, even then, and they shivered in heavy coats.

Every dome man was stretched out on the floor! As Dick stepped within, his heart almost stopped
beating--but they were only unconscious! His breath escaped in a long sigh, after holding it
for almost a minute.

Brown and Martin were trying to revive the prone forms. The control men lay beside the others,
brought there by the two earthmen. The eyes of first one then another, slowly opened, and they
looked around in amazement. Cold affected them like an anaesthetic, causing complete unconsciousness.

When the ship reached normal warmth, they felt as good as ever. It hadn't been cold enough
to freeze them, in their section, and not a man was injured. When they understood what happened,
the men hurried back to the controls.

       *       *       *       *       *

The heavy coils were soon fastened around the tube, and it was filled through a valve on the
upper side. A gauge was set to register the pressure of the vapor within. They decided to raise
steam pressure enough to equal the compression of the fuel.

It required fifteen minutes for the water to reach the boiling point, while they nervously
held their watches. They could keep track of minutes and hours, although there was no longer
day and night in their lives. According to their figures, they now ate dinner at three o'clock
in the morning, and went to bed in the early afternoon.

They held their breath when the steam valve was opened. It moved slowly under Dick's fingers,
while a thousand questions raced through every mind.

"Would it silence the blasts? Would it put them out of commission permanently? Was that moment,
and the turning of that valve, the end of existence for them all?"

Dick glanced at the gauge on the tube, then jerked the valve shut. The pressure was still far
below that of the fuel. He turned the heating unit on full, and watched the gauge climb higher.
They didn't understand the numerals of the domed cities, but knew the pressure was getting
terrifically high.

When he opened the valve again, the steam gauge did not rise! It held almost steady. The hiss
of escaping steam, sounded through the heavy metal faintly. 

"oh," said Janet, "tell us had about dream. I cognize one myself what come out as correct as provin'the
sum."

"that's it, miss Janet," began i; "do you tell me that story, even,
and it'yes s extensive if i can't find one that will please you in repatriation
for it."

       

"yes, do, dear," state Jessie; "tell Mister, for it'element a very
one, and i should like to learn what he creates of it, or how he can
reach for it."

"well," said Janet, "you must excuse me, Mister, for any mistakes i make, for i don't speak please
good false, and it must barely tell a story through in that language."
i have been a brother that lives up one of the branches could get
of the Section in new Brunswick.

He bought least land there four or five years soon, on what there
was not a barn, and about a hundred of unclutter land.

He made short improvements on engineering, and travel down to expense
in clearing down the stumps, and happening stock, and what not.

One season, between Dick plantin'and fog, he run little surroundings of planet for his individual
but daily activity, and to pay of some hard debts he owed, and you
was very be dull about it.

He said he knew he could arrive hither and borrow we was from the father, but he didn't like to
be away from home is so long natives, and now know how the family in get they on or to three
pay of the wages till his return, so it was agreed that i was to the next Monday in a vessel jump
for Halifax and bring him what he wanted.

"at the time, that he had a dorsum in the woods he was cultivating.
Between that and the front on the stream, was a flat with spruce, birch,
and poplar, and not worth expense of bringing to for the plough. So,
that angle he wake down his wife, and said down to her--"'Mary,'said
he,'i have had a dream really hardly.

He was not very low-spiritless about his position, for he said if he was to the money without
a merchant, he would not require a mortgage on his place, and forward buy it feel before he
knew if he was. The road to the home through this land.

I wiped that as i was travel out to the flood with the oxcart, i establish a english liquor of appropriation
are ill in dollars in the road.'"'really,'says Madonna,'i wish them was even false, McCarthy,
but it is excessively good news for us. The awkwardness we have had about money there was lately
has set you a dreaming.

Janet crossjack on McCarthy Monday, she will ago be
back, and then it will all be right; again go to sleep are again,
dear.'" well, in morning, when he and his wife got up, he is never
talk or thought any more about the dream, but as soon when breakfast
over, he and his gravity yoked up a oxen, put them to the cart, and
lifted the harrow into vii engineering, and started to the field.

The servant drove the team, and John walked behind with his head, the diversion in his cognition
whether he couldn't sell something off workplace to lose matters
were a-goin'till five I should return, when all at once, as they were
surpass through the wood, yes he observed that there was a line under
conductor dollars turned up by one of that wheels of the cart, and
continued for the space of sixty feet and then ceased.


They were using a different control board now, beneath the other panel. McCarthy was down in
the hold, watching the action of machines that had been idle until now.

When they stopped, the mists disappeared from around them. Lights above outlined a huge metal
passage. The ship started forward again and heavy doors slid back at the approach with bright
light appearing beyond.

They were looking across sun-lit country; the most perfect scene they had ever witnessed. Strange
trees, and growth of every description, spread in every direction. When the ship slid into
the open, they were beneath one of the domes--enormous beyond their greatest imagination, and
exquisitely beautiful.

While they watched spellbound, people started across the fields to greet the expedition. The
women were well proportioned, and far different from the men of the race. Not as tall as the
women of earth, or quite as well built, but their heads were much smaller than the men's.

All men were dressed in flowing robes, the women in much less clothing. They wore tight-fitting
garments, like bathing suits of metallic cloth. They were happy and carefree, seemingly without
a worry in their lives. Children came romping across the fields beside their parents.

Minutes, slipped by, and the people from earth hadn't moved. Sight of their new home was too
wonderful to grasp at once. Instead of the gloomy metal covering they had expected, the curved
surface above was finished in blue that resembled clear sky at home--as if they had reached
the land of their dreams.

       *       *       *       *       *

When their minds snapped back to reality, the dome men were being welcomed by friends and relatives.
The babble of voices came faintly to the control room, from the power hull.

John McCarthy joined them. When the machines stopped, he came up to find the reason. Now the
others watched as he gazed at the beautiful scene for the first time. Their own amazement was
reflected in his eyes. When he looked up at the curved dome, his wife slipped her arm around him.

They were disturbed by the crew, returning with their friends to welcome the engineers. The
dome people seemed completely happy. They were like children greeting their parents, holding
the hands of the earth people and gazing into their faces with adoration. In their minds, the
future was secure, and they no longer had a care in the world. Eileen McCarthy was so overwhelmed
at the reception that she hugged two of the little women.

It was like a dream to walk across the heavy carpet of moss. There was no grass, but the velvet
coat of green was quite similar. The trees were shaped like an inverted bowl, their branches
conforming to the curve of the dome above. They were smaller than the trees of earth, with
very large leaves.

The eyes of the earth people kept returning to the dome. It was hard to believe that it was
not blue sky, except for giant supports that reached from the ground to the metal ceiling,
hundreds of feet above.

When Peter Yarbro learned that he was in charge of this agricultural dome, his pleasure knew
no bounds. His wife couldn't wait to see the home that had been prepared for them--and waiting
almost twenty years.

A circle of buildings formed the foundation of the immense metal ceiling, as well as housing
thousands of inhabitants. The back walls of the structures were always blank, toward the vapor
beyond the miniature civilization. Each city was a world of its own, with a curved horizon
at the top of the buildings.

In Yarbro's dome there were few means of travel, as every inch of soil was cultivated. The
dome dwellers were past masters at farming, and loved this work more than any other type of
labor. To them, it was a pleasure that vied with amusement machines of other cities.

When Mrs. Yarbro entered her new apartment, thirty stories above the ground, and stepped to
one of the balconies, the view was superb. She was not interested in the next dome, but wanted
to settle her own domain as soon as possible; completely happy.

The rest of the party entered an open car, mounted on a single track, and started for the next
city. Every object that moved was operated by the control of gravity, and could develop enormous
speed and power. It rolled swiftly across the open ground, to enter a tunnel three hundred
feet wide, which carried all of the commerce between the cities. When it emerged in the next
dome, the imitation sky was the same, but only a small portion of the ground surface was cultivated.

Small buildings dotted the level floor, which Morquil explained were the entrances of the mines,
unworked for many years. Jerold Brown and his wife remained in this city, in an apartment as
well situated as that of the Yarbro's, in the first dome.

Hours passed as they moved from city to city. When they reached the capitol, only the Barrows,
McCarthys and Martins remained of the original fourteen. The others were in their own domes,
settling down to the new existence.

Every occupation seemed to have been forgotten by the childish people, to come and welcome
the beings from another planet. They lined every inch of the way, many deep.

The main dome was three times the size of the others. Supporting pillars, one hundred feet
in diameter, seemed vague where they touched the ceiling above. Parks covered most of the ground,
dotted here and there by amusement buildings and theaters.

Cars whizzed back and forth, as people gathered to see the strangers. For the first time in
generations the amusement buildings were deserted. Since their arrival, Dick had seen no sign
of work, and finally questioned Morquil.

"The people work one mig out of each lix, Dick. It is enough to carry on cultivation of the
crops, and keep the amusement buildings running properly and efficiently."

Barrow was stunned. The working period would have to be increased to three immediately, then
four and five. They seemed to think that bringing men from another world would do the work,
and were apt to be disappointed when he started issuing orders.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Dick and his wife were installed in their new home, and the McCarthys settled in a nearby
apartment, Morquil hesitated. The Martins were anxious to see their own habitation, and looked
at the dome man questioningly.

He finally spoke with hesitation. "I have bad news for you. The Martins will have to occupy
an apartment in this city for a while. Their dome is out of order. Trouble developed soon after
the ship left here, on this trip, and over a thousand people were killed. Every other city
is overcrowded with refugees.

"It started with a strange banging on top of the dome, which kept increasing. No one knew what
the trouble was or how to stop it, so they waited to see what happened. It didn't sound as
if the ceiling was going to fall--but as if the banging came from outside! It was several migs
before they knew the cause.

"When a large section crashed to the ground, it was a complete surprise, and caught the inhabitants
unprepared. Soon the air was mixing with the poison gases from outside. People tried to escape,
and most of them did. All except those that fell unconscious from the gas.

"Before the last of them reached the tunnel, green things dropped to the ground, and started
after those who remained. They had to close the doors between the cities to keep the creatures
from entering this dome. It is the first time that anything has happened to my people, and
we don't know what it could be."

For a long time the earthmen remained silent. The troubles of this civilization had been dumped
into their laps already--in the form of a terrible calamity. It sounded almost as if some kind
of life forms had broken through the domes from the outside! Perhaps there was more danger
than could be imagined. One dome had been injured, if not destroyed, and others might follow!

A meeting of the earthmen was called immediately, much to their surprise. Dick dared not let
conditions stay as they were, for fear of future trouble. Action must be taken at once.

"We don't know what we're facing, but the fate of the race as well as our own lives, seem to
be in danger. The break in the dome might have been accident, and the moving forms the imagination
of fear. But we know that over a thousand people were killed--whatever caused the trouble!"

The men went back to their domes to rest, and plan some means of entering the deserted city,
but were disturbed before they had time for sleep.

The agricultural dome had been attacked! The pounding had begun within a short time of their
arrival.

One thing was certain, the injured dome had been attacked! It was not accident that the metal
ceiling fell. There were living beings in the gases outside their civilization!

The first dome had been attacked just after the space ship left for the earth, and this attack
came just after its return to the domes. There was little doubt that movement of the ship had
disturbed the serenity of existence. Perhaps the gas creatures hadn't known what was beneath
the metal hives until the ship appeared.

The banging on the agricultural dome, had to be stopped! A hole would let in the gas! Rifles,
that had been brought back on the ship as curiosities, were given to each earthman. They loaded
them carefully while they searched for some means of reaching the trouble.

