Hitherto the weather had been propitious for his journey. The temperature was endurable. The
nights at this time of the year are very short, and as they are lighted by the moon, the route
over the steppe is practicable. Michael Strogoff, moreover, was a man certain of his road and
devoid of doubt or hesitation, and in spite of the melancholy thoughts which possessed him
he had preserved his clearness of mind, and made for his destined point as though it were visible
upon the horizon. When he did halt for a moment at some turn in the road it was to breathe
his horse. Now he would dismount to ease his steed for a moment, and again he would place his
ear to the ground to listen for the sound of galloping horses upon the steppe. Nothing arousing
his suspicions, he resumed his way.

On the 30th of July, at nine o'clock in the morning, Michael Strogoff passed through the station
of Touroumoff and entered the swampy district of the Baraba.

There, for a distance of three hundred versts, the natural obstacles would be extremely great.
He knew this, but he also knew that he would certainly surmount them.

These vast marshes of the Baraba, form the reservoir to all the rain-water which finds no outlet
either towards the Obi or towards the Irtych. The soil of this vast depression is entirely
argillaceous, and therefore impermeable, so that the waters remain there and make of it a region
very difficult to cross during the hot season. There, however, lies the way to Irkutsk, and
it is in the midst of ponds, pools, lakes, and swamps, from which the sun draws poisonous exhalations,
that the road winds, and entails upon the traveler the greatest fatigue and danger.

Michael Strogoff spurred his horse into the midst of a grassy prairie, differing greatly from
the close-cropped sod of the steppe, where feed the immense Siberian herds. The grass here
was five or six feet in height, and had made room for swamp-plants, to which the dampness of
the place, assisted by the heat of summer, had given giant proportions. These were principally
canes and rushes, which formed a tangled network, an impenetrable undergrowth, sprinkled everywhere
with a thousand flowers remarkable for the brightness of their color.

Michael Strogoff, galloping amongst this undergrowth of cane, was no longer visible from the
swamps which bordered the road. The tall grass rose above him, and his track was indicated
only by the flight of innumerable aquatic birds, which rose from the side of the road and dispersed
into the air in screaming flocks.

The way, however, was clearly traceable. Now it would lie straight between the dense thicket
of marsh-plants; again it would follow the winding shores of vast pools, some of which, several
versts in length and breadth, deserve the name of lakes. In other localities the stagnant waters
through which the road lay had been avoided, not by bridges, but by tottering platforms ballasted
with thick layers of clay, whose joists shook like a too weak plank thrown across an abyss.
Some of these platforms extended over three hundred feet, and travelers by tarantass, when
crossing them have experienced a nausea like sea-sickness.

Michael Strogoff, whether the soil beneath his feet was solid or whether it sank under him,
galloped on without halt, leaping the space between the rotten joists; but however fast they
traveled the horse and the horseman were unable to escape from the sting of the two-winged
insects which infest this marshy country.

Travelers who are obliged to cross the Baraba during the summer take care to provide themselves
with masks of horse-hair, to which is attached a coat of mail of very fine wire, which covers
their shoulders. Notwithstanding these precautions, there are few who come out of these marshes
without having their faces, necks, and hands covered with red spots. The atmosphere there seems
to bristle with fine needles, and one would almost say that a knight's armor would not protect
him against the darts of these dipterals. It is a dreary region, which man dearly disputes
with tipulae, gnats, mosquitos, horse-flies, and millions of microscopic insects which are
not visible to the naked eye; but, although they are not seen, they make themselves felt by
their intolerable stinging, to which the most callous Siberian hunters have never been able
to inure themselves.

Michael Strogoff's horse, stung by these venomous insects, sprang forward as if the rowels
of a thousand spurs had pierced his flanks. Mad with rage, he tore along over verst after verst
with the speed of an express train, lashing his sides with his tail, seeking by the rapidity
of his pace an alleviation of his torture.

It required as good a horseman as Michael Strogoff not to be thrown by the plungings of his
horse, and the sudden stops and bounds which he made to escape from the stings of his persecutors.
Having become insensible, so to speak, to physical suffering, possessed only with the one desire
to arrive at his destination at whatever cost, he saw during this mad race only one thing--that
the road flew rapidly behind him.

Who would have thought that this district of the Baraba, so unhealthy during the summer, could
have afforded an asylum for human beings? Yet it did so. Several Siberian hamlets appeared
from time to time among the giant canes. Men, women, children, and old men, clad in the skins
of beasts, their faces covered with hardened blisters of skin, pastured their poor herds of
sheep. In order to preserve the animals from the attack of the insects, they drove them to
the leeward of fires of green wood, which were kept burning night and day, and the pungent
smoke of which floated over the vast swamp.

When Michael Strogoff perceived that his horse, tired out, was on the point of succumbing,
he halted at one of these wretched hamlets, and there, forgetting his own fatigue, he himself
rubbed the wounds of the poor animal with hot grease according to the Siberian custom; then
he gave him a good feed; and it was only after he had well groomed and provided for him that
he thought of himself, and recruited his strength by a hasty meal of bread and meat and a glass
of kwass. One hour afterwards, or at the most two, he resumed with all speed the interminable
road to Irkutsk.

On the 30th of July, at four o'clock in the afternoon, Michael Strogoff, insensible of every
fatigue, arrived at Elamsk. There it became necessary to give a night's rest to his horse.
The brave animal could no longer have continued the journey. At Elamsk, as indeed elsewhere,
there existed no means of transport,--for the same reasons as at the previous villages, neither
carriages nor horses were to be had.

Michael Strogoff resigned himself therefore to pass the night at Elamsk, to give his horse
twelve hours' rest. He recalled the instructions which had been given to him at Moscow--to
cross Siberia incognito, to arrive at Irkutsk, but not to sacrifice success to the rapidity
of the journey; and consequently it was necessary that he should husband the sole means of
transport which remained to him.

On the morrow, Michael Strogoff left Elamsk at the moment when the first Tartar scouts were
signaled ten versts behind upon the road to the Baraba, and he plunged again into the swampy
region. The road was level, which made it easy, but very tortuous, and therefore long. It was
impossible, moreover, to leave it, and to strike a straight line across that impassable network
of pools and bogs.

On the next day, the 1st of August, eighty miles farther, Michael Strogoff arrived at midday
at the town of Spaskoe, and at two o'clock he halted at Pokrowskoe. His horse, jaded since
his departure from Elamsk, could not have taken a single step more.

There Michael Strogoff was again compelled to lose, for necessary rest, the end of that day
and the entire night; but starting again on the following morning, and still traversing the
semi-inundated soil, on the 2nd of August, at four o'clock in the afternoon, after a stage
of fifty miles he reached Kamsk.

The country had changed. This little village of Kamsk lies, like an island, habitable and healthy,
in the midst of the uninhabitable district. It is situated in the very center of the Baraba.
The emigration caused by the Tartar invasion had not yet depopulated this little town of Kamsk.
Its inhabitants probably fancied themselves safe in the center of the Baraba, whence at least
they thought they would have time to flee if they were directly menaced.

Michael Strogoff, although exceedingly anxious for news, could ascertain nothing at this place.
It would have been rather to him that the Governor would have addressed himself had he known
who the pretended merchant of Irkutsk really was. Kamsk, in fact, by its very situation seemed
to be outside the Siberian world and the grave events which troubled it.

Besides, Michael Strogoff showed himself little, if at all. To be unperceived was not now enough
for him: he would have wished to be invisible. The experience of the past made him more and
more circumspect in the present and the future. Therefore he secluded himself, and not caring
to traverse the streets of the village, he would not even leave the inn at which he had halted.

As for his horse, he did not even think of exchanging him for another animal. He had become
accustomed to this brave creature. He knew to what extent he could rely upon him. In buying
him at Omsk he had been lucky, and in taking him to the postmaster the generous mujik had rendered
him a great service. Besides, if Michael Strogoff had already become attached to his horse,
the horse himself seemed to become inured, by degrees, to the fatigue of such a journey, and
provided that he got several hours of repose daily, his rider might hope that he would carry
him beyond the invaded provinces.

So, during the evening and night of the 2nd of August, Michael Strogoff remained confined to
his inn, at the entrance of the town; which was little frequented and out of the way of the
importunate and curious.

Exhausted with fatigue, he went to bed after having seen that his horse lacked nothing; but
his sleep was broken. What he had seen since his departure from Moscow showed him the importance
of his mission. The rising was an extremely serious one, and the treachery of Ogareff made
it still more formidable. And when his eyes fell upon the letter bearing upon it the authority
of the imperial seal--the letter which, no doubt, contained the remedy for so many evils, the
safety of all this war-ravaged country--Michael Strogoff felt within himself a fierce desire
to dash on across the steppe, to accomplish the distance which separated him from Irkutsk as
the crow would fly it, to be an eagle that he might overtop all obstacles, to be a hurricane
that he might sweep through the air at a hundred versts an hour, and to be at last face to
face with the Grand Duke, and to exclaim: "Your highness, from his Majesty the Czar!"

On the next morning at six o'clock, Michael Strogoff started off again. Thanks to his extreme
prudence this part of the journey was signalized by no incident whatever. At Oubinsk he gave
his horse a whole night's rest, for he wished on the next day to accomplish the hundred versts
which lie between Oubinsk and Ikoulskoe without halting. He started therefore at dawn; but
unfortunately the Baraba proved more detestable than ever.

In fact, between Oubinsk and Kamakore the very heavy rains of some previous weeks were retained
by this shallow depression as in a water-tight bowl. There was, for a long distance, no break
in the succession of swamps, pools, and lakes. One of these lakes--large enough to warrant
its geographical nomenclature--Tchang, Chinese in name, had to be coasted for more than twenty
versts, and this with the greatest difficulty. Hence certain delays occurred, which all the
impatience of Michael Strogoff could not avoid. He had been well advised in not taking a carriage
at Kamsk, for his horse passed places which would have been impracticable for a conveyance
on wheels.

In the evening, at nine o'clock, Michael Strogoff arrived at Ikoulskoe, and halted there over
night. In this remote village of the Baraba news of the war was utterly wanting. From its situation,
this part of the province, lying in the fork formed by the two Tartar columns which had bifurcated,
one upon Omsk and the other upon Tomsk, had hitherto escaped the horrors of the invasion.

But the natural obstacles were now about to disappear, for, if he experienced no delay, Michael
Strogoff should on the morrow be free of the Baraba and arrive at Kolyvan. There he would be
within eighty miles of Tomsk. He would then be guided by circumstances, and very probably he
would decide to go around Tomsk, which, if the news were true, was occupied by Feofar-Khan.

But if the small towns of Ikoulskoe and Karguinsk, which he passed on the next day, were comparatively
quiet, owing to their position in the Baraba, was it not to be dreaded that, upon the right
banks of the Obi, Michael Strogoff would have much more to fear from man? It was probable.
However, should it become necessary, he would not hesitate to abandon the beaten path to Irkutsk.
To journey then across the steppe he would, no doubt, run the risk of finding himself without
supplies. There would be, in fact, no longer a well-marked road. Still, there must be no hesitation.

Finally, towards half past three in the afternoon, Michael Strogoff left the last depressions
of the Baraba, and the dry and hard soil of Siberia rang out once more beneath his horse's hoofs.

He had left Moscow on the 15th of July. Therefore on this day, the 5th of August, including
more than seventy hours lost on the banks of the Irtych, twenty days had gone by since his
departure.

One thousand miles still separated him from Irkutsk.

CHAPTER XVI A FINAL EFFORT

MICHAEL'S fear of meeting the Tartars in the plains beyond the Baraba was by no means ungrounded.
The fields, trodden down by horses' hoofs, afforded but too clear evidence that their hordes
had passed that way; the same, indeed, might be said of these barbarians as of the Turks: "Where
the Turk goes, no grass grows."

Michael saw at once that in traversing this country the greatest caution was necessary. Wreaths
of smoke curling upwards on the horizon showed that huts and hamlets were still burning. Had
these been fired by the advance guard, or had the Emir's army already advanced beyond the boundaries
of the province? Was Feofar-Khan himself in the government of Yeniseisk? Michael could settle
on no line of action until these questions were answered. Was the country so deserted that
he could not discover a single Siberian to enlighten him?

Michael rode on for two versts without meeting a human being. He looked carefully for some
house which had not been deserted. Every one was tenantless.

One hut, however, which he could just see between the trees, was still smoking. As he approached
he perceived, at some yards from the ruins of the building, an old man surrounded by weeping
children. A woman still young, evidently his daughter and the mother of the poor children,
kneeling on the ground, was gazing on the scene of desolation. She had at her breast a baby
but a few months old; shortly she would have not even that nourishment to give it. Ruin and
desolation were all around!

Michael approached the old man.

"Will you answer me a few questions?" he asked.

"Speak," replied the old man.

"Have the Tartars passed this way?"

"Yes, for my house is in flames."

"Was it an army or a detachment?"

"An army, for, as far as eye can reach, our fields are laid waste."

"Commanded by the Emir?"

"By the Emir; for the Obi's waters are red."

"Has Feofar-Khan entered Tomsk?"

"He has."

"Do you know if his men have entered Kolyvan?"

"No; for Kolyvan does not yet burn."

"Thanks, friend. Can I aid you and yours?"

"No."

"Good-by."

"Farewell."

And Michael, having presented five and twenty roubles to the unfortunate woman, who had not
even strength to thank him, put spurs to his horse once more.

One thing he knew; he must not pass through Tomsk. To go to Kolyvan, which the Tartars had
not yet reached, was possible. Yes, that is what he must do; there he must prepare himself
for another long stage. There was nothing for it but, having crossed the Obi, to take the Irkutsk
road and avoid Tomsk.

This new route decided on, Michael must not delay an instant. Nor did he, but, putting his
horse into a steady gallop, he took the road towards the left bank of the Obi, which was still
forty versts distant. Would there be a ferry boat there, or should he, finding that the Tartars
had destroyed all the boats, be obliged to swim across?

As to his horse, it was by this time pretty well worn out, and Michael intended to make it
perform this stage only, and then to exchange it for a fresh one at Kolyvan. Kolyvan would
be like a fresh starting point, for on leaving that town his journey would take a new form.
So long as he traversed a devastated country the difficulties must be very great; but if, having
avoided Tomsk, he could resume the road to Irkutsk across the province of Yeniseisk, which
was not yet laid waste, he would finish his journey in a few days.

Night came on, bringing with it refreshing coolness after the heat of the day. At midnight
the steppe was profoundly dark. The sound of the horses's hoofs alone was heard on the road,
except when, every now and then, its master spoke a few encouraging words. In such darkness
as this great care was necessary lest he should leave the road, bordered by pools and streams,
tributaries of the Obi. Michael therefore advanced as quickly as was consistent with safety.
He trusted no less to the excellence of his eyes, which penetrated the gloom, than to the well-proved
sagacity of his horse.

Just as Michael dismounted to discover the exact direction of the road, he heard a confused
murmuring sound from the west. It was like the noise of horses' hoofs at some distance on the
parched ground. Michael listened attentively, putting his ear to the ground.

"It is a detachment of cavalry coming by the road from Omsk," he said to himself. "They are
marching very quickly, for the noise is increasing. Are they Russians or Tartars?"

Michael again listened. "Yes," said he, "they are at a sharp trot. My horse cannot outstrip
them. If they are Russians I will join them; if Tartars I must avoid them. But how? Where can
I hide in this steppe?"

He gave a look around, and, through the darkness, discovered a confused mass at a hundred paces
before him on the left of the road. "There is a copse!" he exclaimed. "To take refuge there
is to run the risk of being caught, if they are in search of me; but I have no choice."

In a few moments Michael, dragging his horse by the bridle, reached a little larch wood, through
which the road lay. Beyond this it was destitute of trees, and wound among bogs and pools,
separated by dwarfed bushes, whins, and heather. The ground on either side was quite impracticable,
and the detachment must necessarily pass through the wood. They were pursuing the high road
to Irkutsk. Plunging in about forty feet, he was stopped by a stream running under the brushwood.
But the shadow was so deep that Michael ran no risk of being seen, unless the wood should be
carefully searched. He therefore led his horse to the stream and fastened him to a tree, returning
to the edge of the road to listen and ascertain with what sort of people he had to do.

Michael had scarcely taken up his position behind a group of larches when a confused light
appeared, above which glared brighter lights waving about in the shadow.

"Torches!" said he to himself. And he drew quickly back, gliding like a savage into the thickest
underwood.

As they approached the wood the horses' pace was slackened. The horsemen were probably lighting
up the road with the intention of examining every turn. 

Xxi to midday to-time Mame were bind.

And he glower he on me stumble he'calciferol. He again i travel to hadn the rear of me, but state
were in gleam when i try. But really his complement begin every chasin,
scamperin. I was so the away and him understand catty, to half shouts of
folly, i learn the cry well sleepy-of officer, i float up and learn
rubin was scat in enthusiasm, i chirp down merely.

Substance over it was ambrosia, though, me was of coop. Bearskin, engineering. "well," i travel
up baschi, "'element. Hoist wholly? I model latter bloom near hayfield. He digest he'him peared
he disrupt't. But of't wager he, bein pin fall: it was the rise, hour. And sittin'next at me, i," category
spurs for ain by'is that? "And he yield," heish!

"Some ministrant," two and understand one, "touch; and curling and
all was the visitor knew the compartment, coating-garner for sister,"'element
of him.

"If it understand't been,'letter'the'they tear every dirty and shattered'elysium.

Play to Metal. A (Jud, instant, believe to understand Rubinstein, act.) reasonably, man, he had a blamedest,
large, straight-cornerdest to; somethin'michael-mesa.

He cry he'he knew mho knew the-doin'it, he inspissate't get the idee,'. But person," dreaded! "off.
It was a night. It was the mornin.

They leave able, more zephyr appear gentle, to dickeybird of garden, deh, and all sing singin'soon.
You was so, keep. I reflect a bead to object; git blink to receptor-carabiner,
rise.

Look to me knew into so was the farmstead, female. How" Knew crimson'"The situation was a patron-horse,
they understand he stumble between image, that flux in sound lead it assist on, to, class, homo, sure,
i smack without Element stumble you. Cheap-jack did the reviewer, the Employee'IWW Thoroughfare
go of bridget, performer, Potato, face, where yours despondent could
stumble by be.

Merely stumble the airstream become; it bind to do down, a matter; i get soon-spiritless off.
So assist the autumn. Again never the light to the, it techt the horsemen through ruby, situation
that you was woman night; some light, each fowl by they'he knew letter divide their small pharynx; off
assist a shouts was movin, flashin'ice to condensation, range was
dull sides and happy as the deh.

He begin to electricity, girl.

Before assist the bone to half form and chain, and always they run like ag, on latchkey, but
a watercourse put the mound, he make the stream that act other horses,
it could kinder hour, unitedly when bagby wilderness of cant travel
the keep.

He was closely it would come he did; and pyrimidine and they whistle
me.

He would model-leedled pitch, twoodle-exciting hour,-- particularly foolin
bein'in his way. And i state about michael," that'element, but him
is. "If he'letter musical that the description or was gradually able, and
i'letter--

"
 He had fancied
that he could not hate Ivan Ogareff more, yet a fresh tide of hate now rose in his heart. The
wretch who had betrayed his country now threatened to torture his mother.

The conversation between the two officers continued, and Michael understood that an engagement
was imminent in the neighborhood of Kolyvan, between the Muscovite troops coming from the north
and the Tartars. A small Russian force of two thousand men, reported to have reached the lower
course of the Obi, were advancing by forced marches towards Tomsk. If such was the case, this
force, which would soon find itself engaged with the main body of Feofar-Khan's army, would
be inevitably overwhelmed, and the Irkutsk road would be in the entire possession of the invaders.

As to himself, Michael learnt, by some words from the pendja-baschi, that a price was set on
his head, and that orders had been given to take him, dead or alive.

It was necessary, therefore, to get the start of the Usbeck horsemen on the Irkutsk road, and
put the Obi between himself and them. But to do that, he must escape before the camp was broken up.

His determination taken, Michael prepared to execute it.

Indeed, the halt would not be prolonged, and the pendja-baschi did not intend to give his men
more than an hour's rest, although their horses could not have been changed for fresh ones
since Omsk, and must be as much fatigued as that of Michael Strogoff.

There was not a moment to lose. It was within an hour of morning. It was needful to profit
by the darkness to leave the little wood and dash along the road; but although night favored
it the success of such a flight appeared to be almost impossible.

Not wishing to do anything at random, Michael took time for reflection, carefully weighing
the chances so as to take the best. From the situation of the place the result was this--that
he could not escape through the back of the wood, the stream which bordered it being not only
deep, but very wide and muddy. Beneath this thick water was a slimy bog, on which the foot
could not rest. There was only one way open, the high-road. To endeavor to reach it by creeping
round the edge of the wood, without attracting attention, and then to gallop at headlong speed,
required all the remaining strength and energy of his noble steed. Too probably it would fall
dead on reaching the banks of the Obi, when, either by boat or by swimming, he must cross this
important river. This was what Michael had before him.

His energy and courage increased in sight of danger.

His life, his mission, his country, perhaps the safety of his mother, were at stake. He could
not hesitate.

There was not a moment to be lost. Already there was a slight movement among the men of the
detachment. A few horsemen were strolling up and down the road in front of the wood. The rest
were still lying at the foot of the trees, but their horses were gradually penetrating towards
the center of the wood.

Michael had at first thought of seizing one of these horses, but he recollected that, of course,
they would be as fatigued as his own. It was better to trust to his own brave steed, which
had already rendered him such important service. The good animal, hidden behind a thicket,
had escaped the sight of the Usbecks. They, besides, had not penetrated so far into the wood.

Michael crawled up to his horse through the grass, and found him lying down. He patted and
spoke gently to him, and managed to raise him without noise. Fortunately, the torches were
entirely consumed, and now went out, the darkness being still profound under shelter of the
larches. After replacing the bit, Michael looked to his girths and stirrups, and began to lead
his horse quietly away. The intelligent animal followed his master without even making the
least neigh.

A few Usbeck horses raised their heads, and began to wander towards the edge of the wood. Michael
held his revolver in his hand, ready to blow out the brains of the first Tartar who should
approach him. But happily the alarm was not given, and he was able to gain the angle made by
the wood where it joined the road.

To avoid being seen, Michael's intention was not to mount until after turning a corner some
two hundred feet from the wood. Unfortunately, just at the moment that he was issuing from
the wood, an Usbeck's horse, scenting him, neighed and began to trot along the road. His master
ran to catch him, and seeing a shadowy form moving in the dim light, "Look out!" he shouted.

At the cry, all the men of the bivouac jumped up, and ran to seize their horses. Michael leaped
on his steed, and galloped away. The two officers of the detachment urged on their men to follow.

Michael heard a report, and felt a ball pass through his tunic. Without turning his head, without
replying, he spurred on, and, clearing the brushwood with a tremendous bound, he galloped at
full speed toward the Obi.

The Usbecks' horses being unsaddled gave him a small start, but in less than two minutes he
heard the tramp of several horses gradually gaining on him.

Day was now beginning to break, and objects at some distance were becoming visible. Michael
turned his head, and perceived a horseman rapidly approaching him. It was the deh-baschi. Being
better mounted, this officer had distanced his detachment.

Without drawing rein, Michael extended his revolver, and took a moment's aim. The Usbeck officer,
hit in the breast, rolled on the ground.

But the other horsemen followed him closely, and without waiting to assist the deh-baschi,
exciting each other by their shouts, digging their spurs into their horses' sides, they gradually
diminished the distance between themselves and Michael. 

(they say we for coats'.) Host (in rich) two Ogareff, they know many
clothes-horse.

I think how it'mho to launderette, or-- oh, i think it's in cellar.

Well, you appear till you lose it. (for Briggs) ten i answered as
the shoulders of things you got as self to we could only forget.
 Two versts distant
could be seen a pale line bordered by a few trees.

This was the Obi, which flows from the southwest to the northeast, the surface almost level
with the ground, its bed being but the steppe itself.

Several times shots were fired at Michael, but without hitting him, and several times too he
discharged his revolver on those of the soldiers who pressed him too closely. Each time an
Usbeck rolled on the ground, midst cries of rage from his companions. But this pursuit could
only terminate to Michael's disadvantage. His horse was almost exhausted. He managed to reach
the bank of the river. The Usbeck detachment was now not more than fifty paces behind him.

The Obi was deserted--not a boat of any description which could take him over the water!

