She caught a pitying look from her guest which seemed to say: "The poor man may not last long
enough to reach the end."  Doubtless she had the same fear, for her dark eyes suddenly glistened,
she sighed, and remained for some moments without speaking.

In the mean time the magpie, which Julien had seen the day before, was hopping around its mistress,
like a familiar spirit; it even had the audacity to peck at her hair and then fly away, repeating,
in its cracked voice:

"Reine, queen of the woods!"

"Why 'queen of the woods?"' asked Julien, coloring.

"Ah!"  replied the young girl, "it is a nickname which the people around here give me, because
I am so fond of the trees.  I spend all the time I can in our woods, as much as I can spare
from the work of the farm.

"Margot has often heard my father call me by that name; she remembers it, and is always repeating
it."

"Do you like living in this wild country?"

"Very much.  I was born here, and I like it."

"But you have not always lived here?"

"No; my mother, who had lived in the city, placed me at school in her own country, in Dijon.
I received there the education of a young lady, though there is not much to show for it now.
I stayed there six years; then my mother died, my father fell ill, and I came home."

"And did you not suffer from so sudden a change?"

"Not at all.  You see I am really by nature a country girl.  I wish you might not have more
trouble than I had, in getting accustomed to your new way of living, in the chateau at Vivey. Have in fashion two
bronze statues, if he had not felt the panting of the tired breath fighters and if he had not
been running and the sweat on his cheeks burning.

Who knows how that battle was over!

Mal was over, no doubt, had it not abbot abruptly and gets to the point apart.

After censoring words with short and strong action by all, he ordered
that Placido follow him, and took him to his cell.

II

- In vain I waited, my son, make you a paragon of holiness and patience, that over time you became
my successor in the government of the abbey. I know everything that happened and I dare not
to blame. The affront that you have done was difficult, almost impossible to tolerate. Is seen,
God does not love you for the contemplative life. Is also impossible for you to stay and not
an hour in this holy house, where a scandal has promoted fierce, but excusable. Moreover, the
young man whom he fought is powerful by birth and wealth and you you can not go on living where
he is. I have no other recourse than to force you to leave immediately from the abbey. But
do not go out without wearing helpless and my affection for you.

The abbey is rich, so is the abbot, and nothing can better spend their money. Take this bag full
of gold, Hugo, Captain of the Archers, is ordered to surrender my
harnessed the best horses in our stables there.

Run, put on to escape from your weapons, and go horseback riding.

Shedding tears of gratitude and respectfully kissing his hands, said
goodbye to Plácido the abbot and he embraced him and blessed him.

Plácido rode two hours, alone and armed by a thick pine forest and trail just trite, who was
meandering along the banks of a stream, between towering mountains.

III

Night came fearful and grim. In this solitude assaulted sad Plácido
thousand ideas. The childhood memories arose in his mind with unusual
clarity.

He recalled that six years ago, had been thrown from another
nursing home and toughness severely sick different. From his childhood,
from the dawn of life, that he had only very confusing memories grew
up in the castle of the terrible D. Fruela, powerful magnate of the
mountain. The Castle was at a height near the coast. As
soon as they had, with difficulty, ascended the opposite hill, the silvery fog that had surrounded
them began to dissipate, and they distinguished a road close by, which led a winding course
through the forest.

"Ah! now I see my way!"  said the driver, "we have only to go straight on, and in twenty minutes
we shall be at Vivey.  This devil of a fog cuts into one's skin like a bunch of needles.  With
your permission, Monsieur de Buxieres, and if it will not annoy you, I will light my pipe to
warm myself."

Now that he knew he was conducting the proprietor of the chateau, he repented having treated
him so cavalierly the day before; he became obsequious, and endeavored to gain the good-will
of his fare by showing himself as loquacious as he had before been cross and sulky.  But Julien
de Buxieres, too much occupied in observing the details of the country, or in ruminating over
the impressions he had received during the morning, made but little response to his advances,
and soon allowed the conversation to drop.

The sun's rays had by this time penetrated the misty atmosphere, and the white frost had changed
to diamond drops, which hung tremblingly on the leafless branches.  A gleam of sunshine showed
the red tints of the beech-trees, and the bright golden hue of the poplars, and the forest
burst upon Julien in all the splendor of its autumnal trappings.  The pleasant remembrance
of Reine Vincart's hospitality doubtless predisposed him to enjoy the charm of this sunshiny
morning, for he became, perhaps for the first time in his life, suddenly alive to the beauty
of this woodland scenery.  By degrees, toward the left, the brushwood became less dense, and
several gray buildings appeared scattered over the glistening prairie.  Soon after appeared
a park, surrounded by low, crumbling walls, then a group of smoky roofs, and finally, surmounting
a massive clump of ash-trees, two round towers with tops shaped like extinguishers.  The coachman
pointed them out to the young man with the end of his whip.

"There is Vivey," said he, "and here is your property, Monsieur de Buxieres."

Julien started, and, notwithstanding his alienation from worldly things, he could not repress
a feeling of satisfaction when he reflected that, by legal right, he was about to become master
of the woods, the fields, and the old homestead of which the many-pointed slate roofs gleamed
in the distance.  This satisfaction was mingled with intense curiosity, but it was also somewhat
shadowed by a dim perspective of the technical details incumbent on his taking possession.
No doubt he should be obliged, in the beginning, to make himself personally recognized, to
show the workmen and servants of the chateau that the new owner was equal to the situation.
Now, Julien was not, by nature, a man of action, and the delicately expressed fears of Reine
Vincart made him uneasy in his mind. When the carriage, suddenly turning a corner, stopped
in front of the gate of entrance, and he beheld, through the cast-iron railing, the long avenue
of ash-trees, the grass-grown courtyard, the silent facade, his heart began to beat more rapidly,
and his natural timidity again took possession of him.

"The gate is closed, and they don't seem to be expecting you," remarked the driver.

They dismounted.  Noticing that the side door was half open, the coachman gave a vigorous pull
on the chain attached to the bell.  At the sound of the rusty clamor, a furious barking was
heard from an adjoining outhouse, but no one inside the house seemed to take notice of the ringing.

"Come, let us get in all the same," said the coachman, giving another pull, and stealing a
furtive look at his companion's disconcerted countenance.

He fastened his horse to the iron fence, and both passed through the side gate to the avenue,
the dogs all the while continuing their uproar.  Just as they reached the courtyard, the door
opened and Manette Sejournant appeared on the doorstep.

"Good-morning, gentlemen," said she, in a slow, drawling voice, "is it you who are making all
this noise?"

The sight of this tall, burly woman, whose glance betokened both audacity and cunning, increased
still more Julien's embarrassment.  He advanced awkwardly, raised his hat and replied, almost
as if to excuse himself:

"I beg pardon, Madame--I am the cousin and heir of the late Claude de Buxieres.  I have come
to install myself in the chateau, and I had sent word of my intention to Monsieur Arbillot,
the notary--I am surprised he did not notify you."

"Ah! it is you, Monsieur Julien de Buxieres!"  exclaimed Madame Sejournant, scrutinizing the
newcomer with a mingling of curiosity and scornful surprise which completed the young man's
discomfiture. "Monsieur Arbillot was here yesterday--he waited for you all day, and as you
did not come, he went away at nightfall."

"I presume you were in my cousin's service?"  said Julien, amiably, being desirous from the
beginning to evince charitable consideration with regard to his relative's domestic affairs.

"Yes, Monsieur," replied Manette, with dignified sadness; "I attended poor Monsieur de Buxieres
twenty-six years, and can truly say I served him with devotion!  But now I am only staying
here in charge of the seals--I and my son Claudet.  We have decided to leave as soon as the
notary does not want us any more."

"I regret to hear it, Madame," replied Julien, who was beginning to feel uncomfortable.  "There
must be other servants around--I should be obliged if you would have our carriage brought into
the yard.  And then, if you will kindly show us the way, we will go into the house, for I am
desirous to feel myself at home--and my driver would not object to some refreshment."

"I will send the cowboy to open the gate," replied the housekeeper.  "If you will walk this
way, gentlemen, I will take you into the only room that can be used just now, on account of
the seals on the property."

Passing in front of them, she directed her steps toward the kitchen, and made way for them
to pass into the smoky room, where a small servant was making coffee over a clear charcoal
fire.  As the travellers entered, the manly form of Claudet Sejournant was outlined against
the bright light of the window at his back.

"My son," said Manette, with a meaning side look, especially for his benefit, "here is Monsieur
de Buxieres, come to take possession of his inheritance."

The grand chasserot attempted a silent salutation, and then the young men took a rapid survey
of each other.

Julien de Buxieres was startled by the unexpected presence of so handsome a young fellow, robust,
intelligent, and full of energy, whose large brown eyes gazed at him with a kind of surprised
and pitying compassion which was very hard for Julien to bear.  He turned uneasily away, making
a lame excuse of ordering some wine for his coachman; and while Manette, with an air of martyrdom,
brought a glass and a half-empty bottle, Claudet continued his surprised and inquiring examination
of the legal heir of Claude de Buxieres.

The pale, slight youth, buttoned up in a close-fitting, long frock-coat, which gave him the
look of a priest, looked so unlike any of the Buxieres of the elder branch that it seemed quite
excusable to hesitate about the relationship.  Claudet maliciously took advantage of the fact,
and began to interrogate his would-be deposer by pretending to doubt his identity.

"Are you certainly Monsieur Julien de Buxieres?"  asked he, surveying him suspiciously from
head to foot.

"Do you take me for an impostor?"  exclaimed the young man.

"I do not say that," returned Claudet, crossly, "but after all, you do not carry your name
written on your face, and, by Jove!  as guardian of the seals, I have some responsibility--I
want information, that is all!"

Angry at having to submit to these inquiries in the presence of the coachman who had brought
him from Langres, Julien completely lost control of his temper.

"Do you require me to show my papers?"  he inquired, in a haughty, ironical tone of voice.

Manette, foreseeing a disturbance, hastened to interpose, in her hypocritical, honeyed voice:

"Leave off, Claudet, let Monsieur alone.  He would not be here, would he, if he hadn't a right?
As to asking him to prove his right, that is not our business--it belongs to the justice and
the notary.  You had better, my son, go over to Auberive, and ask the gentlemen to come to-morrow
to raise the seals."

At this moment, the cowboy, who had been sent to open the gate, entered the kitchen.

"The carriage is in the courtyard," said he, "and Monsieur's boxes are in the hall.  Where
shall I put them, Madame Sejoumant?"

Julien's eyes wandered from Manette to the young boy, with an expression of intense annoyance
and fatigue.

"Why, truly," said Manette, "as a matter of fact, there is only the room of our deceased master,
where the seals have been released. Like not grieve or mourn, or grieve like not to mourn the other. He who seeks, therefore,
terrible and deep emotions that do not read or buy this librejo. If I manage that librejo not
bored, buy and read whosoever will discard or forget the terrible and profound emotions, under other
surface, entertaining and enjoyable.

THE KNIGHT OF AZOR I will do much more than rail and years, spoke
in the most elusive and craggy in the Pyrenees a splendid Benedictine
Abbey.

Eulogio Abbot passed by a miracle of virtue and science.

Worldly things went very wrong at that age.
Tremendous barbarity had invaded almost all regions of Europe. Everywhere
ferocious fighting, stealing and killing.

Almost all of Spain was subject to the law of Mohammed, but two or
three Scoreboard springs, bushes and cliffs where among Christians
took refuge.

Amid the deluge of evil, could be compared Abbey mentioned at the holy ark in which guarded the
knowledge and morality and that human culture could be saved from the universal havoc. Monks
had great faith in your prayers and God's mercy, but did not disdain the worldly wisdom. And
in order to defend against invasions of bandits, powerful and ruthless
barons or Moslems infidels, had fortified the Abbey as almost impregnable
castle rock, and kept hundreds of service men of the strongest weapons,
tested and working for war.

The abbey was very rich and famous, rich valleys of the Fertiliser in outline the monks had cleared, cultivated
with care and collecting them abundant harvests, and famous, it was about home education, where
many young men from all over France and Christian Spain that remained came to be instructed on arms and letters.
Among the monks had learned philosophers and theologians, and not a few who had fought with
glory in his youth before leaving the world. They either taught the arts of peace and war, as at
that time knew.

And then, depending on the nature of each learner, the peaceful and humble became priests or monks,
and the warlike and active lifestyle enthusiasts out there to be warriors and even great leaders. Fifty
novice in the abbey had continued. And all but in the hours devoted to exercises of chivalry, wore
the habit of the order. In an April afternoon, finished the run, novices out of the choir, where
they had been singing psalms, and were, as usual, to spend two hours of pleasure playing in a
courtyard. There was a novice of obscure origin, which was opposed to the nobility of that rightly
boasted most of the others. This novice was Spanish. Six years ago he had come to take refuge
in the convent out of nowhere.

The abbot gave him asylum charity, and he, with his deep humility, with its consistent application, with
rare intelligence deployed in the study and the strength and agility
he displayed in all bodily exercises, he won the will of the venerable
Servant of God, who loved him like a son and he naively admired.

From here you have the envy of other novices, and especially the French. TratÃ¡banle with disdain,
made him a thousand taunts and insults directed to him, that he was
suffering with resignation evangelical.

This is why he called plaque. At that time the envy of the other novices had reached its height.
Placido had achieved brilliant success.

Had made a devout and inspired Latin hymn to the Blessed Virgin Mary, so full of beauty and
so rich in mystical love, which excited the monks, had sung in the choir,
giving the young poet a thousand praises and blessings. His bad fellow,
eager to humiliate him, and perhaps trusting that Placido was peaceful
and suffered, they confronted him, but he withdrew them with gentleness
and modesty, and got two of the most defiant to the last extremity
of the injury.



While Claudet was striding across the woods, the boy carried the luggage of the newly arrived
traveller into the chamber on the first floor, and Zelie, the small servant, put the sheets
on the bed, dusted the room, and lighted the fire.  In a few minutes, Julien was alone in his
new domicile, and began to open his boxes and valises.  The chimney, which had not been used
since the preceding winter, smoked unpleasantly, and the damp logs only blackened instead of
burning.  The boxes lay wide open, and the room of the deceased Claude de Buxieres had the
uncomfortable aspect of a place long uninhabited.  Julien had seated himself in one of the
large armchairs, covered in Utrecht velvet, and endeavored to rekindle the dying fire.  He
felt at loose ends and discouraged, and had no longer the courage to arrange his clothes in
the open wardrobes, which stood open, emitting a strong odor of decaying mold.

The slight breath of joyous and renewed life which had animated him on leaving the Vincart
farm, had suddenly evaporated.  His anticipations collapsed in the face of these bristling
realities, among which he felt his isolation more deeply than ever before.  He recalled the
cordiality of Reine's reception, and how she had spoken of the difficulties he should have
to encounter.  How little he had thought that her forebodings would come true the very same
day!  The recollection of the cheerful and hospitable interior of La Thuiliere contrasted painfully
with his cold, bare Vivey mansion, tenanted solely by hostile domestics.  Who were these people--this
Manette Sejournant with her treacherous smile, and this fellow Claudet, who had, at the very
first, subjected him to such offensive questioning?  Why did they seem so ill-disposed toward
him?  He felt as if he were completely enveloped in an atmosphere of contradiction and ill-will.
He foresaw what an amount of quiet but steady opposition he should have to encounter from these
subordinates, and he became alarmed at the prospect of having to display so much energy in
order to establish his authority in the chateau.  He, who had pictured to himself a calm and
delightful solitude, wherein he could give himself up entirely to his studious and contemplative
tastes.  What a contrast to the reality!

Rousing himself at last, he proceeded mechanically to arrange his belongings in the room, formerly
inhabited by his cousin de Buxieres. He had hardly finished when Zelie made her appearance
with some plates and a tablecloth, and began to lay the covers.  Seeing the fire had gone out,
the little servant uttered an exclamation of dismay.

"Oh!" cried she, "so the wood didn't flare!"

He gazed at her as if she were talking Hebrew, and it was at least a minute before he understood
that by "flare" she meant kindle.

"Well, well!"  she continued, "I'll go and fetch some splinters." D. Fruels was now going to leave from there, behind
him were plenty of horseback riding people with good markmanship so they could cut the Moorish land
into shape. He could submerge himself into the ravines of his property and prepare to hunt
out the more cruel pirates that infected the seas with thier raids off the coasts of Spain. Admirerers
such were not uncommon.

Placido was one who would collect at the castle for charity, being born to unknown parents he was taught
to love the women who were born of nobles. Until he was eight he lived
in with Elvira, who happened to be a daughter of the Dona Aldonza
and who was only slighlty younger than him.

They played together as children and learned to read the Christian
doctrine.

Elvira grew to love Placido and was embedded with the most innocent
bond of affection for him, she felt their souls had united.

D. Fruela grew suspicious and issued orders that his wife, Dona Aldonza, take the girl from the
boy. She submitted to her husband's wishes but not to the point that
she never spoke to the boy again.

This did not create the effect that D. Fruela anticipated. The study together had turned the worship
of those who were holy into affection. And, the separation of the two only
led to dreams of splendor and finery together.

At the time the two children grew to be fourteen years in age, D. Fruela went hunting with Elvira's
horse only to have a problem with the horse's running wild. The horse became lost in the dense forest
and Placido went after the mare to save her. When he found the horse, Elvira had been thrown
to the ground. Yet, Elvira had not been harmed.

At this point
Placido dismounted from his horse went to Elvira and lifted her in his arms to be sure of her condition.
Before they meant to do it, they had kissed, as if instinctively. Within this kiss Placido felt he had
been to paradise, although in reality he was lying on the hard cruel ground and rain had begun lashing
at their backs in the process. D. Fruela happened to appear in the midst
and confronted Placido, he was both angry and disturbed with him, hoping
to punish him even. There came a pack of hounds and huntsmen who were
insulting the boy and aiming to kill D. Fruela. As they lunged at the
man with thier spear, Placido tried to save his love's father by sliding
down the spear, Elvira all the while was at his side as he had carried
her with him. As he was quite a young and tender age he filled with
bitter tears at the uneven struggle between the huntsmen and D. Fruela.
  He walked for several hours without seeing
anything, nearly got lost, and did not reach home till after dark.  Once more the little servant
appeared with his meal, which he ate in an abstracted manner, without even asking whether he
were eating veal or mutton; then he went immediately to bed, and fell into an uneasy sleep.
And thus ended his first day.

The next morning, about nine o'clock, he was informed that the justice of the peace, the notary,
and the clerk, were waiting for him below.  He hastened down and found the three functionaries
busy conferring in a low voice with Manette and Claudet.  The conversation ceased suddenly
upon his arrival, and during the embarrassing silence that followed, all eyes were directed
toward Julien, who saluted the company and delivered to the justice the documents proving his
identity, begging him to proceed without delay to the legal breaking of the seals.  They accordingly
began operations, and went through all the house without interruption, accompanied by Claudet,
who stood stiff and sullen behind the justice, taking advantage of every little opportunity
to testify his dislike and ill-feeling toward the legal heir of Claude de Buxieres.  Toward
eleven o'clock, the proceedings came to an end, the papers were signed, and Julien was regularly
invested with his rights.  But the tiresome formalities were not yet over: he had to invite
the three officials to breakfast.  This event, however, had been foreseen by Manette.  Since
early morning she had been busy preparing a bountiful repast, and had even called Julien de
Buxieres aside in order to instruct him in the hospitable duties which his position and the
customs of society imposed upon him.

As they entered the dining-room, young de Buxieres noticed that covers were laid for five people;
he began to wonder who the fifth guest could be, when an accidental remark of the clerk showed
him that the unknown was no other than Claudet.  The fact was that Manette could not bear the
idea that her son, who had always sat at table with the late Claude de Buxieres, should be
consigned to the kitchen in presence of these distinguished visitors from Auberive, and had
deliberately laid a place for him at the master's table, hoping that the latter would not dare
put any public affront upon Claudet.  She was not mistaken in her idea. Julien, anxious to
show a conciliatory spirit, and making an effort to quell his own repugnance, approached the
'grand chasserot', who was standing at one side by himself, and invited him to take his seat
at the table.

"Thank you," replied Claudet, coldly, "I have breakfasted."  So saying, he turned his back
on M. de Buxieres, who returned to the hall, vexed and disconcerted.

The repast was abundant, and seemed of interminable length to Julien. The three guests, whose
appetites had been sharpened by their morning exercise, did honor to Madame Sejournant's cooking;
they took their wine without water, and began gradually to thaw under the influence of their
host's good Burgundy; evincing their increased liveliness by the exchange of heavy country
witticisms, or relating noisy and interminable stories of their hunting adventures.  Their
conversation was very trying to Julien's nerves.  Nevertheless, he endeavored to fulfil his
duties as master of the house, throwing in a word now and then, so as to appear interested
in their gossip, but he ate hardly a mouthful.  His features had a pinched expression, and
every now and then he caught himself trying to smother a yawn.  His companions at the table
could not understand a young man of twenty-eight years who drank nothing but water, scorned
all enjoyment in eating, and only laughed forcedly under compulsion.  At last, disturbed by
the continued taciturnity of their host, they rose from the table sooner than their wont, and
prepared to take leave. Before their departure, Arbillot the notary, passed his arm familiarly
through that of Julien and led him into an adjoining room, which served as billiard-hall and
library.

"Monsieur de Buxieres," said he, pointing to a pile of law papers heaped upon the green cloth
of the table; "see what I have prepared for you; you will find there all the titles and papers
relating to the real estate, pictures, current notes, and various matters of your inheritance.
You had better keep them under lock and key, and study them at your leisure. You will find
them very interesting.  I need hardly say," he added, "that I am at your service for any necessary
advice or explanation.  But, in respect to any minor details, you can apply to Claudet Sejournant,
who is very intelligent in such matters, and a good man of business.  And, by the way, Monsieur
de Buxieres, will you allow me to commend the young man especially to your kindly consideration."

But Julien interrupted him with an imperious gesture, and replied, frowning angrily:

"If you please, Maitre Arbillot, we will not enter upon that subject. Recalling the darkness of its origin,
is her cast in face and rated her mother of the most infamous way.

The Lamb then became suddenly bravo Leon. For such, it had no weapons, but earned him the cuffs.
With strong and accurate punch shot down by Earth, battered and bloodstained mouth, to the first
who had offended him.

After continued fighting him only three or four, supported against the wall and harassed by them.
It was all so fast that no one had come to be lodged and to restore
peace, when another of the novices, of noble French lineage, took
part in the race, saying:-is cowardice go goals against him; depart
leave me to my only; I will discipline as it deserves.



"That is sufficient, Monsieur de Buxieres," replied he, "I will not press the matter."

Thereupon he saluted his client, and went to rejoin the justice and the clerk, and the three
comrades wended their way to Auberive through the woods, discussing the incidents of the breakfast,
and the peculiarities of the new proprietor.

"This de Buxieres," said M. Destourbet, "does not at all resemble his deceased cousin Claude!"

"I can quite understand why the two families kept apart from each other," observed the notary,
jocosely.

"Poor 'chasserot'!"  whined Seurrot the clerk, whom the wine had rendered tender-hearted; "he
will not have a penny.  I pity him with all my heart!"

As soon as the notary had departed, Julien came to the determination of transforming into a
study the hall where he had been conferring with Maitre Arbillot, which was dignified with
the title of "library," although it contained at the most but a few hundred odd volumes.  The
hall was spacious, and lighted by two large windows opening on the garden; the floor was of
oak, and there was a great fireplace where the largest logs used in a country in which the
wood costs nothing could find ample room to blaze and crackle.  It took the young man several
days to make the necessary changes, and during that time he enjoyed a respite from the petty
annoyances worked by the steady hostility of Manette Sejournant and her son.  To the great
indignation of the inhabitants of the chateau, he packed off the massive billiard-table, on
which Claude de Buxieres had so often played in company with his chosen friends, to the garret;
after which the village carpenter was instructed to make the bookshelves ready for the reception
of Julien's own books, which were soon to arrive by express.  When he had got through with
these labors, he turned his attention to the documents placed in his hands by the notary, endeavoring
to find out by himself the nature of his revenues. He thought this would be a very easy matter,
but he soon found that it was encumbered with inextricable difficulties.

A large part of the products of the domain consisted of lumber ready for sale.  Claude de Buxieres
had been in the habit of superintending, either personally or through his intermediate agents,
one half of the annual amount of lumber felled for market, the sale of which was arranged with
the neighboring forge owners by mutual agreement; the other half was disposed of by notarial
act.  This latter arrangement was clear and comprehensible; the price of sale and the amounts
falling due were both clearly indicated in the deed.  But it was quite different with the bargains
made by the owner himself, which were often credited by notes payable at sight, mostly worded
in confused terms, unintelligible to any but the original writer. 

       The days thereafter in the farm where violent.

Neither Anne herself did not know, because Sol was constantly at his side, which caused the wrath of
Lucia. This ended when at the evening,when juan took her hand, while Peter and Adela where looking
for elderberry flowers or Anne,in the shadow of a path of roses which was leading into saucal, where
were some stone benches, and next to a lectern, a place to put a book, frome stone, too. In
the eyes and voice of Juan was known that something was broken in the his interior, and caused him
pain, but with comforting voice he was persuading Lucia, futile pretexts, which Juan did not succeed
to understand or excuse, hiding the real reason for his anger,while she wanted Juan to guess
and did not to know,"because if it is not, and I say, it may be! And it is not, no, I think
now that it is, but if you do not know what it is, how will forgive me? " And irrevocably angry
with Juan , as if the passing clouds in the sky of love were their funerary paintings,rose as
if they had made peace, but not joy.

As the days stood so rainy, that neither Peter went home, neither Adela to the Revolorio, neither
Ana could leave the shed, nor Sun and Lucia, but being around her, nor John, outside his hours
of reading, which where wearied him, so he was not happy now, had
no way of being away of the house.  It
was plain that all the population of the village looked upon him as an intruder, a troublesome
master, a stranger whom they would like to intimidate and send about his business.  Manette
Sejournant, who was always talking about going, still remained in the chateau, and was evidently
exerting her influence to keep her son also with her.  The fawning duplicity of this woman
was unbearable to Julien; he had not the energy necessary either to subdue her, or to send
her away, and she appeared every morning before him with a string of hypocritical grievances,
and opposing his orders with steady, irritating inertia.  It seemed as if she were endeavoring
to render his life at Vivey hateful to him, so that he would be compelled finally to beat a
retreat. 

From the cute Catarrinia to the elegand and beautiful Helena, and
from antropiscos to those who left the Lemuria and spread in flocks
while howling all over the world.

To the man who wrote the Iliad as well as those who understood and
enjoyed reading it, the progress made is astonishing. Even if centuries
go by it seems unlikely and all but impossible. Perhaps it is the ingenious
dream of the wise people who dedicate themselves to the Prehistory
  His temper was becoming soured, his nerves were unstrung,
and his mind was so disturbed that he fancied he had none but enemies around him. "This
will consist in Sue and Ponson du Terrail use the fine art and deep Gauthier and Mérimée ignored
or that of the general public has a bad taste, is long overdue and still prefer the coarse to
fine?While he was immersing himself in this unwholesome atmosphere of hypochondria, the sound of
a door opening and shutting made him start; he turned quickly around, saw a young woman approaching
and smiling at him, and at last recognized Reine Vincart.

