Within the palace itself I heard many persons attached to the Emperor say the same thing when
he was not present, though they spoke very differently in the presence of his Majesty. And so it happened. Three days was the open gap without being seen by the owner farm
and a further four 'Pedric "he fruitlessly for him to take up before it biting beasts to that
gate and ended up with the "poverty" of the fence ... until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state
"bichornosu 'he had resolved to close the gap. Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in
all cases less than that the interest that was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his
face and got into big care carelessness of others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and
life I had done since then. She loved me attached to the land and the house of my grandparents.
Chisco was a good companion to walk where I walked with him Pito also Salces, but not as "amañau"
as the other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus gentlemen." If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio,
there is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful, honest and serving workers as it was and where
he served, no parent of that place was in "josticia of law ", close the door of his house.
Then there were those who, if not properly closed, either is the opening of goodwill. Topics men.
The girl was nice, and some goods had inherit in their day, but was not "to each Callejues regolver"
a good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she knew him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes,
but it was a very different looking from his father, and he understood. The mother was on the
road different than her husband, and snuggled closer to those of the daughter ... In addition and
settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if the thing was good for everyone. But what "amejao"
my father I found it! She had known him a little more than "mozucu" because Don John Antonio
I would, if alive, at the foot of ten years. He had left the place without having Hair beard
yet, then again, "mozallón arroganti Jechu a" but "come out here and Aya, as he says otru that.
" "We pulled it mundanu Muchu Jacia had big bucks apañau through the land of God and the woman
who waited to marry him. Had become to be alone "the mayoralgu" he never wanted to destroy
out of Tablanca. "Although it was not mujeriegu of by suyu ", loneliness and other penalties
had been forced to marry well. Married Well, that yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!" with the best of Caórnica,
home of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez del Pinar.
  But unfortunately this hope, which was indulged with the joy of anticipation,
lasted only a short time; and it was soon learned that the propositions made to M. de Saint-Aignan
were only a bait, and an old diplomatic ruse which the foreigners had made use of simply in
order to gain time by deluding the Emperor with vain hopes. It was the shotgun's gaznápiro: a escopetón
older and patched the jokes, he had made one of hers. Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking
the slightest precaution when a part is put throw, ie, as he peered, both in the air than for
Matos, who through the mountains is over, because for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck
shrapnel that had not far and fences: it threw in the face, and above of my shoulder or between
the legs of Chisco, as requested by the situation of things and people, without getting tired
of saying 'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was like the end of world: the mountains tremble,
and the piece was not only dead, but in tatters, because He did not lose once, or a single grain
piece of shrapnel escopetón.

And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin of
regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar strains are animals he encounters
one going for a walk, even for sites nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in the world,
is not it, with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.

Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least that
its placidity of the continent. If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly, with
the other pointed to me, and with an expressive gesture or half word I implied that was down
to me. If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the
shotgun from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure
in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling
as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?" But Chisco
are greatly mistaken, because the weapon was excellent, and very decent ammunition it. What
failed was the hunter, that being so clever as I was in the shooting White did not know where they
walked when they had to throw on the run or the flight. The case is that this stupidity came
to spite me, and contributed much to it, rather than looks Chisco syrupy, the brutal laughter
that solemnized Chorcos each amendment was their grungy espingardón the failures of my gun.
And so I arrived in mortification, having put my five senses in this business, I got soon, if
not the skill of my companions, to behave in a way, other than "amendable" by none I missed shots.
This cessation of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt I downloaded the mind of a great
weight, because that weaknesses are strung together of life, and has never been told the truth
as the pompous Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all. "

Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game, the priest Don Sabas,
but no weapon that pinto club that served as a cane.

Was it something like gunpowder decline in spending in those bursts of pure pleasure, and
called them "creatures of God" those who were in the magnitude scale, from wild boar and deer
down. But how knew the full scale complete and true, and those mountains and other such, and
how respect he heard the two men, as hunters, both are growing at my side, and how happy I listened
and I watched him this way ... and many others, for those without eyes or the rough ears of
Chisco witted and his comrade!

Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources
in the party My uncle, a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in
the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly to the case and
the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights
of the mountain did not seem to himself.

It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few colorful phrases and the news I asked,
not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner, about the great beasts in their hideouts
in those mountains and how to catch them, trouble sets in which they had seen him and As this was
related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys made by this or that port during an unbridled
"cellerisca" their risk of death among these snowdrifts, sometimes at fault and clinging to
life itself, and most of them for love that of others: the rest was, for me, the way they "fall"
on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right pedestal; that their way of enjoying
the nature that surrounded, swelling it by smell, by sight and even every pore his body, so after
this surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his eyes through the pages of this immense
book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was within the rough simplicity of their language,
the right word, the picturesque touch, note exact box needed to be well observed and well meaning,
the role played in this work of true artist, his painting club, stressing in air and the end
of the arm extended, the force of words, the folding of the humble cassock, gently moved by
the continuous air blowing from the heights, the head erect, eyes sparkling, his hat down
over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines of this living sculpture ... Oh!
diéranle the poor priest in plain land in the open valley, in the city, a miter, the papal tiara
in the capital the Christian world, and would give them death: breathing at will, to live at
ease, to know God, to feel in all its immensity, to worship and Don Sabas serve as served and
worshiped him, he needed the continued spectacle of those grand altar of that wilderness, rugged
and lonely, with their peaks vanished so often in the clouds that blended with the sky.

None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate the two monsoon how
deep respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest of the parish and man of unquestionable
competence as soon as they reached them.

My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level of the innumerable as for "feel
natural" need to see reproduced on canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources of the
palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every
time I looked in the light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched
on the tops of the mountains.

And it was much appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that
had never been to me no pictures, no books or speeches.

On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh
and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen everything me until then it was
like to see nothing and had to do something that I had promised.

- What you want when you want - I answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with
the man for whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint.

- Well, my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.

VIII

My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my
own, leaving appear in it as the careless, to surprise the best in
their intimacy.

Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood at Mass the previous Sunday,
I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to speak,
and even clothing.

All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all
women had the "blanket" or similar color shawl and similarly crossed
over his chest and kidneys; everywhere and all kinds abounded blond
and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the square
to the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the same
calm, and in all faces, old and young, you could see the same expression
of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing vision of
the great masses in whose shadow they live those people, the had frightened
and suspense.

I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood,
when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their
way and clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the way:
that of their rooms. All Tablanca houses, with very rare exceptions, I found the same plane built
by: the ground floor, for livestock stables sheep and goats, on the floor, family room and the
kitchen ceiling without the roof, and above the loft, bounded by a vertical board on the edge corresponding
to kitchen, forming with the three remaining walls what might be called "smoke box." Outdoor
accessory to a block and a cattle barn, and stuck to her or the house, an orchard very small.

Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young. As a
characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as esu end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru"
with beautiful mound. But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which
are not the rough a word is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary, and have expressions and idioms
of taste so signally classic, that this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a
conversation between those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old romances.

It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression, undergoes
alteration visible by changing places or customs. It's very common there to migrate during the
summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as those of Aragon to hold the office of sawing
wood, or those of Castile, or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat or cash. I spoke
with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from
him, and did not find the slightest difference that distinguished
in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves at all, its other
neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable
signs that interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue
that brings them, as if they only had eyes heart to see and feel the
native homeland.

The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent
part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs
public and domestic. I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that
Property of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer I drink at home,
from where it was, by force of habit, which was very poorly regarded the man who showed instincts'
bartenders, "and much worse that was carried away from them, albeit
rarely.

Not so stunned me the news that there was scarce a lot of money, to be a common lineage shortage
everywhere, but I thought it was of note that of which, however, were common fruits of the
earth, as among primitive peoples; and so it is important that services are paid with a half
dozen or panicles a miller chestnut. What is not in that valley are potatoes, but instead, abundant
harvest of promise in the valley of my paternal grandmother and upstream Nansa, where there is no
maize, which is the main crop Tablanca, so these two valleys, separated by four hours away at a good
walk, are in frequent treatment to change those important fruits of the earth.

Almost all men are Abarquero Tablanca, some of which, while being farmers, industries that make
a trade.

They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in the rough sandals
pairs, and so them down to the village, where, after it cured, they concluded just a little. In this
task I found some of them occupied, and seeing me enthralled narrow adze handle overalls and
long shear, or removed by curette curly chips from deep and intricate the Almadreña, or "painting",
the tune and, at knifepoint on artificial patina dried colostrum fire. Others are more carpenters,
and also collects and prepared in the bush timber stands and "canes" (poles) of horses, or farm
implements which are then refined and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the
Mountain" to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original.
I found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe from
his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio"
blood Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se and as of divine right,
but not the authoritarian manner despotic feudal traditions, but to the patriarchal and llanota
of biblical times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the
warm welcome I excused the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal." Finances were not his, 'As I could
understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed the first song of the middle,
then two of the "apareaos" with him, and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally, he had said,"
to the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up a little lick pa verdinis
Estus is the moriu esborrega around here.

"
  His convictions, in this respect, were somewhat changed, however, when
a few days afterwards he received another letter ordering him to present himself in the same
manner at the same spot; and he again passed the night there in vain expectation.

Nothing further had occurred, when a third and similar rendezvous was appointed, at which the
French officer presented himself with the same punctuality and inexhaustible patience.  He
had waited several hours, when suddenly, instead of witnessing the arrival of his brethren,
he heard the clash of swords; and moved by irresistible impulse, he rushed towards the spot
from which the noise issued and seemed to recede as he advanced.  He soon arrived at a spot
where a frightful crime had just been committed, and saw a man weltering in his blood, attacked
by two assassins. We spent an alley with many Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured
for the most part died with ivy and elders, said my companion, pointing to the left and bottom of
a bag that was there for two enclosures, one of 'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall
between weeds:

- This is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another
that closed the square there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there
was with him at pains and losses and the harnesses from the owner.

With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without saying anything, but he must have
read it to me in the face that I put, because I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's metal or wood. I stayed and women, not because of the salt
beds and the hijus, among Casaus and ausentis, it mesmu that if any; and I do not reach the
pa ná tiempu with the work they give me the ajenus beware ... Because, believe me Nah, you,
sir Marcelu Don, what happened to me has vistu moriu Nah, you raise,
going on here with a thousand and five hundred to ca time of day and
nochi, and if not by the Tarumbu juera, Nah, you don believe me Marcelu,
believe me tomi Nah, you and not to emponderancia: if the Tarumbu
juera, the goal of Tablanca vecindariu of callejonis Estus she would
have been devoured by the swarm and cuerus vivus.

Well keep me even putting it in doubt, I left him very affable, and
I went to the doctor's house, which was two steps.

IX

Since he had known little more than a glance, at my uncle, I felt
a great desire to take a paragraph to my taste Tablanca's physician,
because it seemed to me at that youth had more 'quarry' which is in
the usual type and flow of men their age and circumstances.

And the quarry was the first clearings, at ground level, as they say.

As I had been closer to home, came out to meet up with a doublet portal home, little more than
summer, despite the cool winter running environment, but with good coats and plump white flesh
that stuck out in hives and gathered cuffs of her nightgown and above the slight neck jacket.
Upstairs Condújome a few sections, then a short passage, and, finally, I introduced a living room
with sunshine and cabinet, which, for the furniture and the books
it contained, I assumed from then he would dispatch. 

I talked to him a good while yet, because I entertained a lot of their conversation picturesque
and I finally asked about the doctor's house.

- Sail there - I said
turning around to the right hand and pointing to "Lord a building
more than the current rate in the village -.

Two is Zanchetta in it.

- And Don Pedro Nolasco? - Ask later.

- Sailing to the other manu
- he answered, pointing with his opposite -.

Above tejau of the first to tend orchards, güertu, looms the Aleru
vencíu and detraseru jastialón of eya, with its balconies with fierru.

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like
those of all mountain areas, have no rhyme or reason to each other,
a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper cauldron on
his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand.

The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked at me, turned back and told me while carrying on
snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu
- he answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the
father of Tanasi ... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I
cried watching her carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

-
Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

-
One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru Cavone, and unless the
pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead.

You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because I am able to juralu that as Nah, you, sir
Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I will or that come in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that
day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but it, cutting by half the dismissal,
she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were full, and
his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me.

  I cannot even now write the name of the latter town without recalling the spectacle
of tumult and confusion which it presented after the glorious battle of Hanau, where the Bavarians
fought so bravely on this the first occasion when they presented themselves as enemies before
those in whose ranks they had so recently stood. Sentámonos face to face in comfortable but not rich or plush
armchairs, a table between the two, full of papelejos, a letter opener, box of filled and vacant
matches, ashtray with cigarette butts, a flask of sole and a bag open surgery, and there was first
the usual vagueness whenever they visit, then smoked, while talking about the weather, so unusual
in its relative moderation, or the trial I was forming of the land, hitherto unknown to me,
then touch the point hygienic conditions of the valley, and this loophole came to light the broken
Celso my uncle's health, on which I was eager to speak with one mediquillo.

It's harder than it seems to show ingenuity, discretion, tact and, above all, art in trivialities
and pettiness that is the subject forced the beginning of the visits "in full" we all do, which makes
the whole world. It is easier to win a battle to enter on time and well toned in those worthless
symphonies of comedy that will represent later. I have the courage to declare, as I'm concerned,
I almost always I see in these trances, he entered at the wrong time and tune, and the more
I endeavor to amend the blunders, the worse I get. But so help me comfort that I view it more
blunders mine and to enormous inconvenience and nonsense where fewer were expected for the quality
refined actors. Well, precisely in the same dangerous trance was where I started I foresee the 'quarry'
of that young man, bare-chested and almost child clothes, mediquillo simple of a hamlet buried
in mountains, in the presence of a smart Madrid, tired running the idle rich world, and certainly
not by what I said or what he did, but for the opposite: so shut up and so did not want to do,
or better yet he knew so well just shut up and sit still, and choose what I said and how to
say. Everyone has a desire to be a bit sharp, a little funny and a little naughty in front of
people, hence the follies and inconveniences, and almost anyone it happens to be sincere, which,
good education and a dash of common sense, have no guarantee of becoming "evil" there or anywhere,
it is not loose at the time warranty essentially communicative reach. For full sincerity, and
at its highest degree, together with a good understanding, was the first thing which I took
to see in the mediquillo of Tablanca.

Speaking of the illness of my uncle told me it was fatal. Was ... (And here laughing stopped to
ask forgiveness for the words she was going to drop) in a dilation
heart ... asystolic state ...

- In current Castilian - added with
a gesture and a very natural and expressive gesture - is the old machine
whose body begins to decompose.

It hindered the wheel of the heart could be impeded as another major. For some of them had to
start the inevitable ruin. When consumed it, when the machine stops, it is not possible to calculate
a date fixed either by me or by those who know of these things I
do: the same can stand inside six months at the moment.

What is certain is that there is no time machine.

Although it was well persuaded me, confirming my suspicions as authorized by lips I was a very painful
effect.
 The main thing is that you speak. If God touched my heart! What do I
do not want to leave the house? ... and although they lend themselves, where are they to put
in and how will they live? It seems incredible that we've got to
have to think about it! It seemed I was seeing, so arrogantona and so ... and then involved
with their softness ... But God had not wanted things happen from there, and today a son, and
tomorrow another, had been the three who had been taking, and finally it worth a Potosi pure
gold, and with it the light and joy of the house, which fenecería "Tomorrow or the otru" with
the poor Don Celso, who had been about to die. And deceased Ruiz de Bejos latter, and in closing
the house or moving to unknown owners, what Tablanca would not live for his, no one came over
in the valley as old as the same river that crossed? So he was glad both of my coming. Permission
might well be of God.
 The war spread and fierce, forcing the Government to employ extra resources: to each news item of lifting
or thickening of existing ones, was necessary to send reinforcements to the Basque Provinces,
Catalonia, Navarre and Mastership. The Ministry of War, the Management of the Weapons and other military
facilities were full of soldiers and officers, protected by recommendations, had found means
to circumvent his bad luck, getting rid of joining their battalions, and the abuse took such
proportions that it was necessary to avoid it.

When stakeholders were calmer, he ordered that, within three days, all individuals placed on
the premises of the Ministry in the past six months hospitalized in their bodies, whatever
their origin and how this meant the inevitable accuracy out to operations overnight, Pepe decided
carry out its purpose. Regarding his father, had everything planned: what was was made as simple
as sad a stretcher to transport you on Engracia house, and carry then his bed, his clothes
and some furniture, preserved more useful than for sellers. The difficulty was in determining
to take Dona Manuela and Leocadia. What would you do? To persist in following up on the streets
of keypads, with what resources? And to find another room, what means would have? Not hide
the clear understanding Pepe who, though sick of reason, should not be thrown into the street
to his mother and sister, but also saw that the fanaticism of Dona Manuela and subsequent
behavior could result in Leocadia during his absence, the total abandonment of the poor old man.

-
You speak to them - Pepe said Miller, trying this.
 

He was a native of Robacio (like Chisco), and his father, Don Servando Celis, a man of art Celso
my uncle, had hoped to make health care because he already had another son, the eldest, studying
law at Valladolid. To him, studying third degree in Santander, did the same thing. He felt
no aversion or attachment to any literary or scientific career: all their five senses was placed
on the home turf. This did not tell anyone, but I felt very deeply. On this side had been glad
to career choices made by his father, because the doctor was perhaps the only one compatible
with their aspirations and trends. Furthermore, it could fool you into illusions of boys, and of all
kinds, his father had quite right to get in there to give an occupation that, at least, was to
enlighten understanding and put you in touch with the world. In this test, necessarily had to
manifest and win his true vocation. And even willingly submitted to it, not counting by that
of his humanist campaign Santander, because at that age and enclosed in a no school is not a
fair idea of ​​these things as delicate and complex. Made test for seven years studying in
Madrid, was what he expected: The ultimate triumph of his first inclinations.

- Are you sure - I said following my system interruptions and questions
for more than spontaneously offered me a pleasant brevity - of having
put his hand all the effort that required the company?

- Absolutely
sure! - I replied without hesitation, and said smiling: I can swear
to you that I took this line of study time well.

- Well, it seems
very strange result - I said -, judging by my own feelings.

- Why?
- Asked me very seriously.

- Because it is so usual and common among
young men of the personal to you; because with them and in Madrid
and in continuous contact with the world and its goodies, it is natural
that they are going to take a taste.

- I did not say I disliked me
- quickly, "the doctor -.

What we have is that these treats, not dislike, I met, I filled, and always left me awake appetite
of nothing but the taste of my taste.

- And what was that thing, may I ask?

- It's here, the native land.

- But what the hell can you find in it in palatable to that point! - I cried then, truly amazed.

-
What's missing in the other - he answered instantly.

- I do not get it - concluded.

- Neither is easy - I said very quietly - from the point of view of
you, so different mine.

- Different - added - according to and under,
for, after all, this is a man who has seen the world than a hole,
hence my surprise precisely.


A committee of the senate having conferred on the Emperor the right to appoint, of his own
choice, the president of the Corps Legislatif, his Majesty bestowed this presidency on the
Duke of Massa, who was replaced in his former position as grand judge by Count Mole,  the youngest
of the Emperor's ministers. He preferred the risk of a violent scene with the man, the prospect struggling with
weak or passive resistance alone.

- In what I can do for you? - Tirso asked.

- I come from Pepe.

(Sitting).

- What does that unhappy?