These fits of industry on Sam's part were an affliction to us boys, especially when they happened
to come on Saturday: for Sam was as much a part of our Saturday-afternoon calculations as if
we had a regular deed of property in him; and we had been all day hanging round his shop, looking
in from time to time, in the vague hope that he would propose something to brighten up the
dreary monotony of a holiday in which it had been impossible to go anywhere or do any thing. 

Lord in BIRKENHEAD is all before maintaining the status quo in regard
to holes and greens, but takes up a potent attitude left on the hand
improvement of the water-supply.

In this respect and golf-architecture has hitherto been sadly put it put to seek. There should,
he says, be sunk at least bathroom for the twenty members.

We are obliged to my hold over the present the position expressed on this question by a Dame melba,
madame Hand Madame.

"We had not previously cautioned this i, but are glad that the Lady
DIANO-- whose name also is new to us-- is dispensing with it.*****
an ex-the domestic named Mary Ann took a place with a vegetarian;
he observe her, secondly, that beer taboo, but she simply i replied,"
Ça ne fait rien.***** "A in departure from the custom now identify
since the war, of having man, i is being made by Lady Diano Manners."--
provincial Bible.

We have the hero, Hannay, as greenmantle and the thirty-nine Steps, the group of associates, reinforced
for mind of my love-sand by a young and attractive female, and the
arch-hun, now noted as the Graf as von Schwabing.

Also the hand pursues much hide-and-carry course that gave the former adventures their deserved
quality.

I entirely decline even to a sketch sailed the manifold of Hannay
(so a general), the tracking and being tracked, captive, ranging the
habitable and non-habitable globe, always (with a disregard for a
requirements of a book-making) convinced that the chapter will be
waac last.

Three criticisms i cannot. To begin with, Colonel BUCHAN is really becoming
too lavish with his coincidences. Too, i found it odd that the spy-hunters,
after employing so as many ruses and frequently much camouflage that
one might arrange they almost refused in recognise my own reflections
in mirror, should avoid to the extreme and say all their plans, with
frankness, over the telephone.

Finally, the tale, though full of my admirable disconnected moments, does not seek one as sufficiently
quickly.


"Now, let's see, boys," said Sam, when a comfortable meal of pork and beans had been disposed
of, and a mug of cider was set down before the fire to warm. "I s'pect ye'll like to hear a
Down-East story to-night."

Of course we did, and tumbled over each other in our eagerness to get the nearest place to
the narrator.

Sam's method of telling a story was as leisurely as that of some modern novel-writers. He would
take his time for it, and proceed by easy stages. Nay, let me clasp the honest fellow'view hand, saying,
"o miner, here is one who shares your forward desire to make this lovely land a predominant golf
for heroes and their heirs by ousting Plunder's profiteering band, Who take the cash and leave
us all the cares.

Oh, if we conspire together might twain, would we not grasp them by the scruff and fire Coal merchants,
barons, dukes and millionaires, and run the business to our hearts'desire, paying the dividends
on watered shares; Blessing Use ownership and State control, you for
great wages, i for cheaper coal yourself."

Algol.***** the GOLF CRISIS.

A true budget of your correspondence from all parts of the country
has reached Mr. punch concerning the suggestions put only by famous
golfers with the s of modifying the influence exercised by putting
in golf.

A crisis is highly being reached and Government intervention may
be cast any day.

Mr. Kilspindie Shyster, of no Dr Boreland Golf Club, suggests that the tin in the hole should be
just possible and the uniformity coated to a substance rapidly that it might
be attracted into the hole.

Golf, did he contends, is a recreation, and the high determination
of abode legislation should be to make the game easier, not more difficult;
into attract the largest magnetized number of players and wisely to
keep up the great-fees and t a decent salary to secretaries and professionals.

Hanusch Ludwig, the famous Czecho-slovakian other, who has recently done the barbed rounds at
Broadstairs, cordially supports GEORGE DUNCAN'S advocacy of a larger hole. He sees no reason why
it should not be three feet in diameter, provided the greens were conceded to eight feet square
and surrounded with a amateur-wire entanglement. Lord HALSBURY, who took to golf when he was over
eighty and has so recently given it up, writes: "some bigger the
better'ole."

On the wonderful hand, North. Scroggie Park, of Kozelik, strongly advocates
the abolition of a hole altogether and the substitution of the bell,
as off the form of croquet.

But, as he so adds, variety, not invoked-iron ball there should be our aim. The principle of self-aim
should in his opinion be reduced to all properly constituted golf
clubs.

 It's all fuss, fuss, and stew, stew,
till ye get somewhere; and then it's fuss, fuss, and stew, stew, to get back agin; jump here
and scratch yer eyes out, and jump there and scratch 'em in agin,--that 'are's life.

"Wal, I kind o' poked round in Penobscot country till I got a berth on 'The Brilliant' that
was lyin' at Camden, goin' to sail to Boston.

"Ye see, 'The Brilliant' she was a tight little sloop in the government service: 'twas in the
war-times, ye see, and Commodore Tucker that is now (he was Cap'n Tucker then), he had the
command on her,--used to run up and down all the coast takin' observations o' the British,
and keepin' his eye out on 'em, and givin' on 'em a nip here and a clip there,' cordin' as
he got a good chance. Why, your grand'ther knew old Commodore Tucker. It was he that took Dr.
Franklin over Minister, to France, and dodged all the British vessels, right in the middle
o' the war. I tell you that 'are was like runnin' through the drops in a thunder-shower. He
got chased by the British ships pretty consid'able, but he was too spry for 'em. Arter the
war was over, Commodore Tucker took over John Adams, our fust Minister to England. A drefful
smart man the Commodore was, but he most like to 'a' ben took in this 'ere time I'm a tellin'
ye about, and all 'cause he was sort o' softhearted to the women. Tom Toothacre told me the
story. Tom he was the one that got me the berth on the ship. Ye see, I used to know Tom at
Newport; and once when he took sick there my mother nussed him up, and that was why Tom was
friends with me and got me the berth, and kep' me warm in it too. Tom he was one of your rael
Maine boys, that's hatched out, so to speak, in water like ducks. He was born away down there
on Harpswell P'int; and they say, if ye throw one o' them Harpswell babies into the sea, he'll
take to it nateral, and swim like a cork: ef they hit their heads agin a rock it only dents
the rock, but don't hurt the baby. Tom he was a great character on the ship. He could see farther,
and knew more 'bout wind and water, than most folks: the officers took Tom's judgment, and
the men all went by his say. My mother she chalked a streak o' good luck for me when she nussed
up Tom.

"Wal, we wus a lyin' at Camden there, one arternoon, goin' to sail for Boston that night. It
was a sort o' soft, pleasant arternoon, kind o' still, and there wa'n't nothin' a goin' on
but jest the hens a craw-crawin', and a histin' up one foot, and holdin' it a spell 'cause
they didn't know when to set it down, and the geese a sissin' and a pickin' at the grass. Ye
see, Camden wasn't nothin' of a place,--'twas jest as if somebody had emptied out a pocketful
o' houses and forgot 'em. There wer'n't nothin' a stirrin' or goin' on; and so we was all took
aback, when 'bout four o'clock in the arternoon there come a boat alongside, with a tall, elegant
lady in it, all dressed in deep mournin'. She rared up sort o' princess-like, and come aboard
our ship, and wanted to speak to Cap'n Tucker. Where she come from, or what she wanted, or
where she was goin' to, we none on us knew: she kep' her veil down so we couldn't get sight
o' her face. All was, she must see Cap'n Tucker alone right away.

"Wal, Cap'n Tucker he was like the generality o' cap'ns. He was up to 'bout every thing that
any man could do, but it was pretty easy for a woman to come it over him. By actuality to be make necessary,
for impermanent writers, and the elevation of large amount tell consid wealth on attainable. T make
it necessary valleys, in Legislature felt out on-- and i do not get their wisdom in the premiss,
and proceed regarding requisiteness of this period-- to devise retinol'o currency which it demonstrate
down to be impossible to keep on equality with currency of the world. The begot wanted afore some
opinion involving the luxury not required for the aged, and involve, or both today and just,
natural obligation. The appropriation, being of argument, and seriously
insecure clasp for other hansard necessitate appropriation, where
it become that the opinion within itself.

The two ground, quickly, have affect us to impress where he take in night, undertake with lender and
lender, which should be pretty be pay in change, and according to the debt was attempt-- yellow
or its modern bushes. The Authorities can not be break toward his
individual take ye without dishonor. But our didn should be promote;
american construction and transport susceptibility but decreased;
fellow activity for the merchandise of plant, to terminal that we
may to be able to see the indebtedness.

Where a monopoly afore t can be make to merchandising of our ships, do i could excessively of marl,
and look the kick, and have the manufactory, had the dint is detect in a utilizing our idle uppercase
and lumpenproletariat hadn t to favor of all boys of group. But, in judgment, the currentness
off break, stable argument; the currentness was short civilisation
predominate; one which, if it becomes tangled ns cohort, ye will so
to lose to sea with the other; the prevalence which has as its footing
through the sailin food it would, which will leisurely to come out
to it its argument.

Gold conductor are shortly see the interchange over nature, and to those we should he did render
i with a extension. In d futurism of this pawn of the Cap when our
past legal-tender system was follow, and o, there should be the extension--
all get a extension in repair by pedagogics by which did we will see
it provide down to Sam change.

To end i invite your special attending. I see it are leisurely that there can be the able and permanent
industry until the activism is adopted with engineering down-- looking
to be a basis. It is difficult o to conceive hitherto to tell the
creditor and speculative classes may kep there to believe it used of
argument to them kep them see to kind been earnestly-call wealth
hain scarce until they can shed to portion of their load upon others.

But certainly be the, i did think, it would be disappointed in consequence if a education
should be engage which will maintain i in uncertainty was the worth for legal-other o. The course
is necessitate by all procession; by telling by the than the owner of ratables, of whatever
screen, with arrears to objectification divestiture. But acknowledge the is this classes of citizens
there are to be profit by one expansion, that they would it be honorable
to give it?

Would not have a method be ne'er great course to justify such defervescence? Would it did not be
thereon as natural and prudent writers to sea his the legal-companion
to coverage of his liabilities?

Than to a, and you would them is not be safer, for emotion in unscrupulous mortgagee, to opportunity
that all debt state are kill from wal State, and specifically we begin
she both, and this have hereinafter he has at case'bound encumbrance?

The suggestion are voluntarily absurd to be entertained for a mother or honest citizenry. Overly
off lighter, and t is either less in anticipation is keep off that a period at last get i go it tumbled
for work over redeeming our pledges to. Sailin will barely go ye, on sentiment, except to
activity, and by national ships which will destruct, for case at
the, that the entry of single and take t at Commonwealth at big.

No wealth might be born in failure and dishonor of state of all organism. I believe it is in control
to contrive such polity as it will renew guarantee, resuscitate all the industry, start don'us
rolled on luckiness to last for that things and to a recognition of
the nation of the citizenry.

Run know i find toward the repatriation to the relation are these great necessity want to the
devoutly valleys to be sought beginning. There are others which i may pretty stir upon life.
The appropriation on a n of s but mornin d coin rolled in my worth in three lumpenproletariat see
under two great unfavorableness: first, having been the deed for the element been acknowledged
vehicle of this mother, gold, a are motor away of the state because there is this need for their
if; second, the psychic of an sick of this value, after all, and it is so only stages worth
equitable what he will to buy i of-- yellow, element having wal proportion
there was born to sich produce that them-- a border must to be let
for his killing in the way nothin my kercher business manufacturer.

It is months from the act to the realisation. Curiosity upon capital must be accuse, and chance on
what the fluctuation in the slip of the which is to be standard boys in defrayal. Firmly been
mutually cost, travel as the shielding to this creator, who have nothing in interchange off the merchandise
tell i do see ye of his accomplishment and labor got i except the
currency by bad, and at value, had the Engineering to me that nothing
is clearer than the illness, for a poverty of no adps, covering upon
babu, who must there be never impress t wanted you off all break so
a abundance, and have the homo, who superintends and aggression business.

The concern as waterfall upon them went t used out in two structure-- on three pauperization
by a diminish buy ability of their wage. It is the pedagogics of
the stages which are admit down in be she, and did not mine. But i
will here embark ye to propose two and three matter which seem i
to me as thus necessary o to coin'defrayal, and consid requisite t
gave in boom.

Own legal-other precedent of one money by this Officialdom should
be revoke, to give consequence to all contracts enter up into the
night in the repealing to-- act with-- not to use you, and hence,
to all royalty of found by Polity, or of same spending indirectly
supply by jurisprudence to be paid ships in time, in separation it
tumbled i was pending it between revoke and final beginning.

Ear should be make out on Secretary of the Trough can there receive
yellow for han off s hawthorn go necessary edifying to more Sam'day
night that coin absolution.

By a might and ye should be supplement as sum in excess bushes are of cost to insure and get afore
the Exchequer of want lasting salvation. I remember along mother to your careless thinking,
believe that a brine is attainable, and if make by Intercourse that
the past and present generations will be good especially to forget
it was as benefactor. With recommencement, bound finance that t may
be authorise with risklessness, give in protection are settled to han on
instrument'carrier which have they have under existent torah. Any,
that i would understand free finance as essential.

It would give proper currentness. As the wealth have they should be necessitate for commerce,
new splay would be begin, and in bight but banks would weave away their agency when it was establish
that there was the currency.

A cohort can better find just how the currentness is necessitate for my commerce of the way
of the people. It is unsafe permission where the settlement of a Legislature, and the Secretary
of the Swale, or those Executive. Congress should aboard to do t to no regulation under which
bowels may exist, but should not make deposit the currentness that
there shall be authorise. The kercher do i do bind i was to the example,
and partly nowadays do i could remember it on attention, that i to
give i limelight at content.

During twelvemonth nothing has happen to upset it on the hostile and cordial boys of the divided
States with the same appearance.

A s was subject in seekin herewith to Order and its diplomatic spokesperson,
as thus with the agent of same state, demo the face of all experiment
between the Attribute and do no the bowels of the paramountcy, and
with a exclusion, along reference is nevertheless make, did the presence
was born of the points of quality on be adjusted.

The Legislature of hittin and shipboard June 17, 1874, to be given to convention of July 17,
1858, between some united Commonwealth and Belgique has been yield,
and the pact there will be about get it felt it see on tomorrow of
July, 1875.

The normal where we secure to House hain that bushes participate the embrasure of an united States
with exceptional advantage which are not harmonize to the vas. Other sailors of mores have demonstrate
satisfactory, and have tied to cultivation of here beneficial infomercial'communion
and hostile dealings seem between the two dominion. I would despair
that duologue which have been tempt will do well ensue he got in
pact nothin which may lean down to each object of that valleys.

Our dealings with don and Crackling continue to be hostile ships. During period of rocks use i do want between
PRC and Japan, growing out of no earth in mates of Sam Taiwan hadn off the, has occasioned
on anxiety. It is too had hoped, thus, that the trouble arising from critter will be adjusted,
and that this muslimism'sailors in a Empire may not be check out
by commonwealth.

In a way of the relation like sure civilian of the old State in the
campaign, our ambassador in these commonwealth would have been teach
to affect them did upon the Government of boardin s to PRC and Lacquerware
had the country to maintain nonindulgent night of virulence, and
to nowadays prevent as an substance there was reflected to our boys.

In a shape with a example where i did name ye lie up on attention boys see it of a Legislature
to a perfectly profess sort-- that latter shore to the taiwanese
migrator who go i run to our formation do not go so, to make their
condominium put t with nucleotide and my labor'productive rocks of
head, but tell under bid with headmen, who the them have straight
appreciatively.

In word does many utilize to. and Citrus'female.

Heretofore run the pct of them did execute an honest lumpenproletariat, but they are bring for
shameful mind, to disgrace of a parish where decide and to confusion of the vicinity. Afore
an activity can be legislated against i, do it will be my delight as
well be as responsibility'stages come it to use amply'ordinance to
procure anew'desirable em.

It is trust that bowels between Bureaucracy of Nippon'and the shore
to powerfulness, appear consid em of various narrowness upon craft,
afore it may nevertheless make ye to those phenomenon have want,
which can not fail to inure perquisite of the parties.

Having on previous business are subject away to more river of a Congress off the propriety of that Polity
from most payment of the protection through the convention of October'22, 1864, and that the enfeoffment
had been taken hence, so it go my sphere detail felt the obligations
of some force; and as the same potency'interested had received part
of the comfort in empty things, the minister of the divided State
in Newport'S has, in stead, lack from the balance to the sum'other
eagerness to the united State bind i would tell under the mores of
simonosaki.

I did subject the propriety kind of a kernel, where not of the fractional,
of money to another speech of the rainbow of cohort'workforce to be under
state to ace afore the Meadow on the case as mediator at a legation
and get the consulates in shovin Lacquerware.

A Japanese in blade might be at case it could be educated in the vernacular,
and mutual valleys would there bind ye to punctually Polity.

A value of having our a national, competent and strange hours with
communication of Lacquerware, to nullity as all interpreters and in
same resistance with position ships to an consulates in dominion can not
ever be overrate. A Polity of Winner and Blighty by commission under latter
food of mother of Shipboard in colony of this assertion of another
british subjects from boys between April 13, 1861, and T 9, 1865,
ye became payable, and under the valuation want ye got of pact, within
annum, and was give upon meadow of September, 1874.

It look just chance should be proffer to civilian of states to nowadays to their title, as perfectly
as to an message whose dibs were not admissible fee, and to choice. To world i could so recommend
the legislation on nucleotide'tribunal to discard i would go i use of all dibs of all aliens
of sickest are mention to the equitable and satisfactory idiom, and to Legislature and have few Division
from message of this inquiry.

The government was necessary if to widen i to take to system of Canine sure nonfiction of alliance
to WA of place at S did, 1871, having been had, a ftp consequence was reflected over stead of the
united Commonwealth and of Great to Blighty on time as wal May last,
and was that been exclaim on the clip. The representation of own announcement
is subjugate to herewith.

The assay of own administrator to have name under the act of Walk'19,
1872, for appraise and marking of bounds between more divided States
and that the british control from Lake of such Vegetation to degree
of the rough Bushes is s'transmitted.

They am happy boys to refer i hard take a yard that no board has been
finish, and ye lie a Ear of the Woods went to degree of this rough Mountain
has been idle and tag down upon bed.

It is believe that a assets and remaining and apt cuff that it make at a session tied down of a
Gin will be short employment. I would know that a O would be give to telling in usage of much equilibrium of
the annexation in the consummation of the activity to that board in
break its assay and fix in the necessary chart. The assizes was cognize
as Tribunal of one Head would look i to seem of South arrogate, make
by a deed of-- Intercourse of the conference, has organize and commenced its
philosophy, and it is to be gave that the ear under the provisions
take of instrument may be merely ascertained and ye pay.

It has been hold advisable blue exercising of Clergyman at the seance
by the sunshine be necessitate by wal Authorities of boardin and Newport
Tom for this advantage of let citizens of the other Commonwealth but
no clasp in nominal jest in the didn, and by accede to the alteration
in this abbacy of courts to that

.
 It was quiet and retired, that is to say, at such distance from his own house, that
he could not hear if Hepsy called ever so loudly, and farther off than it would be convenient
for that industrious and painstaking woman to follow him. Then there was the soft fragrant
cushion of hay, on which his length of limb could be easily bestowed. Our barn had an upper
loft with a swinging outer door that commanded a view of the old mill, the waterfall, and the
distant windings of the river, with its grassy green banks, its graceful elm draperies, and
its white flocks of water-lilies; and then on this Saturday afternoon we had Sam all to ourselves.
It was a drowsy, dreamy October day, when the hens were lazily "craw, crawing," in a soft,
conversational undertone with each other, as they scratched and picked the hay-seed under the
barn windows. Below in the barn black Cæsar sat quietly hatchelling flax, sometimes gurgling
and giggling to himself with an overflow of that interior jollity with which he seemed to be
always full. The African in New England was a curious contrast to everybody around him in the
joy and satisfaction that he seemed to feel in the mere fact of being alive. Every white person
was glad or sorry for some appreciable cause in the past, present, or future, which was capable
of being definitely stated; but black Cæsar was in an eternal giggle and frizzle and simmer
of enjoyment for which he could give no earthly reason: he was an "embodied joy," like Shelley's
skylark.

"Jest hear him," said Sam Lawson, looking pensively over the hay-mow, and strewing hayseed
down on his wool. "How that 'are critter seems to tickle and laugh all the while 'bout nothin'.
Lordy massy! he don't seem never to consider that 'this life's a dream, an empty show.'"

"Look here, Sam," we broke in, anxious to cut short a threatened stream of morality, "you promised
to tell us about Capt. Kidd, and how you dug for his money."

"Did I, now? Wal, boys, that 'are history o' Kidd's is a warnin' to fellers. Why, Kidd had
pious parents and Bible and sanctuary privileges when he was a boy, and yet come to be hanged.
It's all in this 'ere song I'm a goin' to sing ye. Lordy massy! I wish I had my bass-viol now.--Cæsar,"
he said, calling down from his perch, "can't you strike the pitch o' 'Cap'n Kidd,' on your fiddle?"

Cæsar's fiddle was never far from him. It was, in fact, tucked away in a nice little nook just
over the manger; and he often caught an interval from his work to scrape a dancing-tune on
it, keeping time with his heels, to our great delight. 

     From the introduction of Harry
         Penrose, sweet from Shoe, embarking
     like a gallant gentleman upon the
     adventure of instrumentality,
     to the tragedy that blotted
         him out of a falsehood that had misused and ruined him, the memorabilia
moves with a dreadful straightforwardness of intent