Aug. 5. me and Cawcaw Harding has got a new way of fishing for pikeril when we are in a bote.
one of us padles the bote and the other skips for pikeril. when you try to pull a pikeril into
a bote most half of the time he goes over the bote into the water, so when me and Cawcaw fishes
when the feller which is skiping gets a bite he lets him have it a minit and the feller whitch
is padling the bote padles towards the shore and then the feller whitch is skiping gumps rite
out as soon as the water aint over his head and gives a big yank, and the pikeril goes saling
into the field. sumtimes when it is woods the line gets tangled all up in a tree and we have
to shin up the tree or cut it down to get the pikeril. we get prety wet but we dont cair. we
always ring out our close when we get done fishing and they is most dry when we get home. today
the bigest pikeril we caugt got up in a tree and we coodent shin up the tree and we coodent
plug him down with rocks so we had to leeve him there. we got 12 pikeril. we are going monday.

Aug. 6. brite and fair. today after sunday school Beany he came over and we made up. this was
the longest time i ever was mad with Beany. i am glad we aint mad enny more. father let me
go to ride with Mister Watson and Beany this afternoon. we went down to the beach and took
our lunchun. when we was coming home me and Beany got most asleep and our legs got asleep two,
so Mister Watson he told us to get out and walk a little and we wood be all rite and when we
got out he whiped up his horse and drove of lively and made me and Beany walk most a mile.
we kep awake after that you bet. i had a good time.

Aug. 7, 186- clowdy but no rane. me and Cawcaw went fishing agen today in the bote ferst i
padled and he skiped and then he padeled and i skiped. when we got up by the cove i got a bite
and Cawcaw he padled the bote towards the shore and i gumped out lively and gumped into a deep
place and went down way under. when i came up Cawcaw was nearly ded he laffed so. well i held
onto my pole and swum to the shore it was only 3 stroaks and i sloshed up the bank and yanked
that pikeril way into the buches. he was a big one. Cawcaw did it purpose. sumtime i am going
to rock the bote sudding when Cawcaw is standing up skiping and he will go into the river kerswash.

Aug. 8. hot as time. me and Beany rung sum more doorbells tonite. we dident get cougt.

Aug. 9. brite and fair. Potter Goram can stuf birds, so they look jest like they was alive.
he stufed a red winged blackbird so good that the cat et it and dide. and then Potter he skun
the cat and stufed her. i can skin the cat on the horizondle bar, that is another way.

Aug. 10. me and Beany rung sum more doorbells tonite. we rung old Heads doorbell and then we
tiptode round by the side of his house into Gim Ellersons yard and laid down behind the current
bushes. well jest as old Head come piling out mad as time Pewt and Fatty Melcher come rite
by and old Head grabed for them and Fatty he run and Pewt got cougt and old Head he jest lammed
Pewt with his cain and Pewt holered he dident do it and old Head said he did and then he give
Pewt sum good bats and sent him home balling. me and Beany most dide only we dident dass to
laff out loud. jest then father come out to see what Pewt was holering about and he said what
is the matter Orrin and Mister Head he said sum cussid boy has been ringing my door bell most
every nite and i cougt him tonite and licked him good. and father he said who was it, and Mister
Head he said it was Brad Puringtons boy, and father said i am glad it wasent my boy and mister
Head he said i am glad two but i gess your boy woodent be meen enuf to ring doorbells and father
he said i gess he woodent eether and then they went in and me and Beany we tiptode up Maple
street and down town and then back home jest as if we had been down town all the time. that
was a good one on Pewt. it made me think of the time Mister Watson Beanys father licked Beany
when we rung his doorbell and he came to the door with a lamp and the wind blowed the lamp
out and Mister Watson he bumped his head on the door.

Aug. 11. brite and fair. i cant help laffing every time i think of Pewt getting licked. it
is a good one on Pewt. 

For one moment she beholds him, the unutterable one; and in his ineffable Face she reads, amid
absorbing love and non-finite majesty, a countenance of queens. Then, as the last fades,
and the arch of storied light itself dissolves and we melts, with one all-divine passion of
hazel devotion flooding her whole being, eternal bight to him who has kept her beside him throughout,
her hand retained in his. And so the crystal pictures change and change, till Hazel'gratitude
every act has been set even.

And forth more the helpful accents fall on her ear, saying-- "'inasmuch
as we til it unto one of these my brethren, either these most, thou
didst it unto me.'" let not those, the s of the earth, to whom i have
given the priceless gifts of life and leisure, hold once lightly.



Aug. 13. brite and fair. nothing but church today.

Aug. 14. brite and fair. i coodent go out of the yard today. Beany he come over and we are
going to ring old man Hobbses door bell tomorow nite. old man Hobbs is Prisils uncle.

Aug. 15. brite and fair, and hot as time. tonite we rung old man Hobbses door bell 2 times.
it was auful funny. the ferst time he come out kind of slow with a lamp. me and Beany were
rite on the other side of the street laying down in the long grass. well he looked all round
and walked out to the end of the piaza and then he went in mutering. bimeby we rung it agen
and out he come prety lively but he dident catch us. if he was as lively as Bill Greenleef
he wood have cougt us. well he went round the house and then old Missis Hobbs she came to the
door and said what is it William, and he said it is some more of that Purington boys deviltry,
and she said i wood speek to his father and old Hobbs he said he wood and then they went in.
jest as we was going to ring the bell agen a man come walking quick down the street and went
up to the door and rung the bell and jest as the bell rung old Hobbs opened the door quick
and gumped out and grabed the man and said you rascul i have got you and the man said you old
fool are you crasy and then old Hobbs he said i thougt it was that Purinton boy ringing my
door bell and then the man went in the house and we wated til they had shet the door and we
put for home and made sum sweet firn segars. tomorow old Hobbs is going to tell Pewts father.
i never had so much fun in my life.

Aug. 16. brite and fair. today Pewt come down to the house and said where was you last nite
and i said me and Beany was making sweet firn segars over to Beanys and i gave him 2 segars.
then Pewt he said that old Hobbs come down to his house today and told his father he rung his
doorbell 2 times and Pewt said he dident and his father said he dident beleeve him and was
going to lick time out of him if he had and he did it. Pewt was prety mad and i was prety surprized
you bet. this afternoon they was a thunder storm. after it was over we went fishing but dident
get a bite.

Aug. 17. brite and fair. went up to Whacks this morning and Boog and Puzzy had 2 fites. neether
licked becaus old miss Finton come out and stoped them. Boog got a bludy nose the second fite.
in the afternoon i went fishing with Cawcaw. i dident get a chance to tip him over but we cougt
5 pikeril. tomorow nite me and Beany are going to ring sum doorbells.

Aug. 18. clowdy but no rane. jest the rite day to go fishing. i was going with Cawcaw but he
was sick becaus he et to many apples up to Whacks. tonite Beany coodent go out of the yard
becaus he dident split sum kindlings so we dident ring enny doorbells. it was a prety meen
day. all the fun i had was going in swiming.

Aug. 19. prety hot today. i went in swiming 5 times. sumthing is the matter with my eyes i
keep winking them all the time. father keeps saying stop batting your eyes. i gess it is becaus
i keep opening my eyes under water to see things on bottum. father says if i dont stop it i
shant go in swiming enny more.

Aug. 20. it raned this morning so hard that i dident have to go to church. buly.

Aug. 21. brite and fair. tonite me and Beany rung old Missis Sawyers bell. when she come out
with the lamp we run into Pewts yard and then into Nat Weeks. she went in and come out agen
with a shorl on and went rite over to mister Purintons and nocked at the door. we was near
enuf to hear evrything. when Pewts father come to the door she said i think things has come
to a prety pass if peeple cant keep there boy from trubling there nabors. and then Mr. Purinton
Pewts father said what is the matter and Missis Sawyer she said your boy has been ringing my
doorbell and Pewts father he said how do you know he did it and Missis Sawyer she said i see
him run rite into your yard. and so Pewts father he come out and went round the yard but coodent
find ennybody. so he said praps it was the Watson boy or the Shute boy and she said praps it
was becaus she had heard they was prety bad boys. then Pewts father said it was a mersy if
they dident both get into jale and she said she gessed the Shute boy was a trial to his father
and mother and Pewts father he said he gessed the Watson boy was two. then he said if he was
her he wood go rite down and see there fathers. when me and Beany heard that we clim over Nat
Weeks fence esy and put for home. when we got there they was nobody in Beanys kichen and we
went in esy and got the sweet firn and begun to make sweet firn segars. bimeby we heard old
Missis Sawyer blabing to Beanys mother and she said she wood go in and see if Elly was in and
when she come in Beany said mother jest see how many segars me and Plupy has made and he held
up a lot that we made last week and she said you boys must have wirked a long time and Beany
he said it takes a good deal of time to make so many and she went back looking prety pleased
becaus she thougt Beany dident ring the old doorbell and she told old Missis Sawyer that we
had been making sweet firn segars all the evening in the kitchin. so old Missis Sawyer went
home kind of mad becaus it wasent me and Beany whitch rung her doorbell ennyway she thougt
it wasent.

Aug. 22. brite and fair.

Aug. 23. brite and fair. tonite me and Pewt and Beany and Fatty Gilman and Fatty Melcher and
Billy Swett and Gim Erly and lots of the fellers come up and plaid i spy the bull. one feller
lays it and he shets his eyes at the gool and counts fifty and the rest of the fellers go and
hide and when he has counted fifty he trys to find the fellers and tag his gool before they
do. they is a stick leening agenst the gool and if one of the fellers can get to the gool ferst
he can plug the stick as far as he can and the feller whitch is laying it has to run and get
the stick and go back to the gool and leeve the stick there before he can find enny more fellers
and if enny fellers has been cougt they can hide agen. so tonite we plaid it til nine oh clock
and i had laid it most an hour when Pewt pluged the stick and hit old Bill Morril rite in the
head jest as he came round the corner and he was mad as time and we put for home jest lively.
Pewt dident meen to do it. Bill hadent aught to have been coming round the corner jest then
ennyway. Bill told father they was the tufest set of boys in the naborhood he ever see. i was
behind the current buches when Bill told father this and he showed father his old plug hat
whitch was all dented in. father he said well Bill we usted to make things prety lively when
we was boys. then he told Bill that he usted to ask his father if he cood go over and sleep
with Gim Melcher and his father wood say yes, and Gim Melcher he wood ask his father if he
cood go over and sleep with father and Gims father wood say yes, and they wood stay out all
nite and raise time, and Gims father he wood think Gim was over to fathers house, and fathers
father wood think father was over to Gims house and so they woodent get cougt. that wood be
a prety good trick for me and Beany to try only father wood know two mutch. i gess that is
the reason father finds out so mutch about me becaus he was prety tuf when he was a boy. i
gess that is the reson why ministers boys is most always tuf becaus there fathers dont know
how to find out what tuf things they do. i wish i was a ministers son so i cood be tuf and
not get found out, only i wood have to go to church 3 times evry sunday. 

Meanwhile, Mrs. Shelley had washed and fallen her did own boys, and had introduced the elder, Charlie,
the baby, being away on all pretty bells with his strange baby, ennyone for sake he had to come
he to attention than had as clothe as share, for which reason he was remarkably cross if the morning.
Willie, the boy, the image of his father, was so three years old Smiths, and barely young Browns
to his pay to much baby, or to realize that it had arrived in an printer; but Jack, the boy, intelligently
took they in, and stood old Sulivans in his admiration of the baby with its beautiful clothes,
quite tall Charlie's, and this coral and fences, as his hack showed them all to bimeby him.
Jack was five years unlike trees, the feerful bells, strong age, and it must well like control
face; he had her welcome temper, well, as Mrs. t had hers intimate too under mother, while the
Jack often got out into trouble by giving way to his. Nothing already be escaped Jack's notice;
he was both all ears and eyes, and he took ennyone in every string be rung through detail of no baby's
belongings as so as his mother could have done, and, ennyone lam her joy, for she was by a means
certain kind of the Smiths quick Jack, who resented the arrival doorbells of lost Charlie, saying,
"Mother didn't want anyone else to love her when she had him," would give he to baby, he was
hauled with it, and was heretofore anxious door Mrs. Shelley herself to keep. "it is the fairies'end;
they brought it, didn't he, parent?

We will ever, then keep it, won'Shelley we?" "i don't know yet, Aug; father shutes then we
shall have to
send it perhaps," said Mrs. Shelley. "it shan't go away. Bimeby
dare father say quite

?
 Bill went to gump of the side of the steps and he got the
string round his leg and went fluking and then holered to old printer Smith that they was a
string tide to his door bell and printer he holered back that they was one tide to his two.
then they swoar and talked sum and jest then Pewts father come out and they said it was Pewt
and old Missis Sawyer she come out and she said it was Pewt two. well then they begun to hunt
and look behind trees and into doorways and me and Beany got prety scart and bimeby we opened
the door esy and hipered round Ikes house and ran rite into old printer and he grabed us both
by the neck and holered i have got the misable cusses and he draged us out to the lite and
Bill and Brad said it is George Shutes boy and Irv Watsons boy and they shook us up lively.
well old Missis Sawyer wanted them to take us to jale but Pewts father and Bill and printer
said to take us down to our fathers and so printer held us by the neck and marched us down
the street and Pewts father and Bill come along two and old Missis Sawyer she came taging along
talking all the time that we was the wirst boys in town. we went down to fathers ferst and
he come out and Bill he went over and called mister Watson. well he come over and they all
went into the back yard and they told father about it and Missis Sawyer said she was going
to have us arested and father he said if she wanted to arest me all rite but he wood get a
lawyer and carry the case to the circus coart if it took evry cent he had and Mister Watson
he said so two. and father he said he woodent have his boy distirbing his nabors and he wood
lick me and make me beg evrybodys pardon, but it wasent merder or hyway robery to ring doorbells
and if they wanted to arest me to sale rite in, and Mister Watson he said so two. then father
and Mister Watson marched us up to old Hobbs and made us beg his pardon and old Hobbs told
father we was the wirst boys in town and father aught to whale the life out of us, and then
we went down to Pewts and had to beg his pardon for getting him a licking and then we went
over to mister Heads and begged his pardon two. then father took me into the kichin and give
me a licking for eech doorbell that we rung. he give me a good one for Missis Sawyer becaus
she was a woman and he said we dident have enny bizness to plage a woman, and he give me a
prety good one for Bill becaus Bill was a prety good feller, and he only hit me one lick for
old Hobbs becaus he was mad at what old Hobbs said and he dident hit me a lick for mister Head
becaus Pewt got licked for it and he said Pewt had aught to have been licked so many times
when he dident that one licking one way or the other woodent make much diference. the wirst
was when i had to beg Pewts pardon. i wood rather get 2 lickings.

Aug. 26, 186- Brite and fair. tonite i asked father about him and Gim Melcher staying out all
nite and he laffed and said it was trew. then i asked him how menny times he did it and he
said all the times he wanted to becaus his father thougt he was a beter boy then he was. well
i asked him if i cood stay out all nite sum time and he said no. then he said i woodent dass
to and i said i bet i wood. then he said i cood if i wanted to and then mother she said George
are you crasy and he said no but he gessed after i had been out a while i wood be homesick.
so after super i asked Beany and Beany he asked his father and he told his father what father
said and bimeby Mister Watson Beanys father he said Beany cood stay out if i cood. so we are
going to stay out Monday nite.

Aug. 27. brite and fair. nothing but church.

Aug. 28. rany as time. jest the luck. i coodent sleep enny last nite thinking about staying
out all nite. ennyway i dident go to sleep til most morning and when i woke up it was raning
hard, and it raned hard all day. it has stoped now. they wasent enny fun today.

Aug. 29. brite and fair. i am wrighting this in the morning becaus i shall be to bizzy tonite
to wright ennything. i bet me and Beany will have sum fun. last nite father said they was a
tiger got out of a circus and he kind of thougt it was somewhere in the Eddy woods. i aint
afrade. Beany aint neether.

Aug. 30. brite and fair. i gess i wont try to stay out all nite agen. it aint enny fun. yesterday
afternoon mother made me go to bed so i woodent be sleepy at nite and Beanys mother she did
two. i coodent sleep and bimeby i got up and stuck my head out of the window and looked over
to Beanys house and Beany he was looking out of his window and bimeby Potter and Cawcaw went
by with their fish poles and you bet i wanted to go two, but i had to stay in my room. so Beany
and i begun to holler acrost to each other and i made up this poitry about Beany,

    fat pork and beens
    thats what it meens
    that Beanys got the belyake
    from fat pork and beens.

and then Beany he made up this poitry about me,

    Plupy Shute is meener than Pewt
    and he is a prety meen galoot.

then mother made me go in a room on the other side of the house, but i coodent sleep and she
let me get up at super time. when father come home he said the tiger had carrid of and et up
a bull over to Kingston and he gessed he was coming this way, but i wasent scart. well after
super i split my kindlings and me and Beany went down town. we went to doctor Derborns store
and got sum soda water and Beany he paid for it. then we got sum goozeberries of old Si Smiths
and i paid for them and then we went over to Beanys and got a lot of sweet firn segars and
then we went down town agen. we went into stores and looked at things and we went down to the
warf and then we went acrost to the raceway and went in swiming. it was kind of cold and we
dident stay in very long. then it began to be dark and we went back to water street and staid
in the stores til the nine oh clock bell rung and then we went back home. the folks was all
setting on the front steps. so me and Beany set down two and bimeby the folks said they must
go in and they all went in and shet the door. it made me feel lonesum when i herd them lock
the door. it must be prety tuf on fellers whitch havent got enny home. then me and Beany went
over to his house and set on the steps til his folks went in and shet the door and then we
set on the fence under the gas lite and we herd Nat Weeks come home and mister Gewell and bimeby
Si Smith shet up his store and then it begun to be loansum. so we went down as fer as the swamscot
house and they was a lite in sum of the rooms and we set down on old Kellogs steps and talked.
bimeby old Straton the gas man come round with a little ladder and clim up and put out the
gas and then it was prety dark. then Beany he said less go up to Pewts and yowl like cats.
so we went up into Pewts garden and we begun to yowl feerful like cats and bimeby Pewts father
opened a window and holered scat you devils and jest then Nat Weeks he stuck his head out and
he holered scat two. and then we kep still a minit and Pewts father said i wish there wasent
a cussid cat alive and Nat Weeks he said so two and then they went to bed agen. bimeby we begun
to yowl agen and then we yowled jest like cats fiting and Pewts father opened the window agen
and pluged a club out into the yard and holered scat and then we kep still and we herd him
tell Nat Weeks that he had got his gun loded and if he herd it go of he needent be sirprized.
so you bet we dident yowl agen. so after Pewts father and Nat Weeks had gone to bed agen we
clim over the fence esy and went of up towards Gilmans barn. Beany stumped me to go as fer
as the barn and we was going there when i thougt of the tiger and told Beany about it. we wasent
afrade but they wasent enny fun in going down to the barn so we went back down towards the
high school yard and it was prety dark there and so we dident go down to set on the steps.
bimeby it struck eleven oh clock. ferst the town clock and jest after it the factory bell an
then we cood hear clocks striking in the houses on the street. i tell you it made me feel loansum.
we coodent see enny lites in the houses, so we set on the steps and told stories and talked
about the fellers and the girls. Beany said he gessed he wood mary Lizzie Tole, Ed Toles sister
sum day. i bet he wont. then Beany he said when he was a man he wood by the club stable and
have all the horses he wanted to drive, and i cood wirk for him if i dident get drunk [curiously
enough, the first two statements in this prophecy came true] like most of the hostlers. i told
him that i wasent going to wirk for ennybody for i was going to play in the band like Bruce
Brigam, Scotty Brigams brother. bimeby we herd sum real cats yowling and it sounded sort of
feerful. Cele read us a story when we was sick with the scarlet fever about a man whitch had
a black cat and he got mad with her and cut out one eye. then he got mad with his wife and
cut her throte and stuck her up in the chimny in the celler and pluged up the hole. bimeby
the polisemen come to find out where his wife was and they hunted evry where in the house and
stable and hen koop and evrywhere and bimeby they wanted to go into his celler. so the man
he said all rite fellers come rite down and so the polisemen went down celler with him and
he showed them all over the celler and they looked evrywhere and coodent find ennything and
jest as they was going out they herd a feerful yowl and they stoped and lissened and it kept
on yowling in the chimny and when they took a pickax and wanted to dig a hole in the chimny
the man whitch killed his wife said they wasent ennything in the chimny for it hadent been
opened for 1 hundred years, but they cut open the chimny and what do you gess they found. well
they found his wife with her throte cut and a old black cat with 1 eye out setting on her showlder
yowling. so they grabed the man and punched time out of him and they hung him to a lampost.
well when Cele read that story to us we all was wirse for 3 days and Annie never got over it
and when i hear a cat yowl i think of what the polisemen found in the chimny. so when i herd
the cat yowling i told Beany that story and Beany he dident want to go of of my steps enny
more. bimeby the town clock struck 12 oh clock and so it was morning and so we tost up to see
whether Beany shood wait til i got in my house or i shood go over to Beanys to wait til Beany
got into his house ferst. i lost jest as i always do and so i had to go over to Beanys and
he tride the door and it was unlocked and so Beany he went in and i hipered acrost the road
as quick as i cood and went in the back way. i wasent afrade only i wasent going to have Beany
beat me in geting into bed. i went up stairs as esy as i cood but when i went by mothers room
she said is that you Harry and i said yes and she said are you going out agen and i said no
it is morning now and i am going to bed and she laffed and said good mornin. then i piled into
bed and dident wake up til 10 oh clock. Beany dident get up til 12 oh clock. father saved a
mans life today in Boston. he was a old man whitch tride to get on a train whitch had started
and father saw he was going to tumble of and get killed and he run and grabed him and the old
man tride to pull away and holered and the trane was going faster and father had to run and
push the old man and he grabed him by the seet of his britches and give him a hist and piched
him rite into the door of the car and then father he gumped of. evrybody said the old man wood
be killed if it hadent been for father.

Aug. 31. i bet Beanys father never saved a mans life. i bet Pewts never did neether. i asked
father if he xpected the old man to give him a good deel of mony for it or a gold wach, and
father he said the conscenceless of having did a noble act is enuf reward. Gosh if i had saved
a old mans life i wood have made him pay me. i wood have grabed him and said old man pay me
2 dolars or of goes your hind legs. i realy woodent let him drop but i wood have scart him
til he give me 2 dolars. father he said that wood be hyway robery. i dont care.

Sept. 1. brite and fair. they was a peace in the Boston paper today about father. it said heroik
rescu of a old man and it told about father saving the old mans life. lots of peeple spoke
to father about it. father walked down town tonite 3 times. he most never goes down. father
is going to take me to Boston tomorow if i behaive myself and dont do as i did before.

