Then his eyes fell upon a shop where were no jewels, nor gold, nor costly silks, nor pearls
of great price; but all that was in it was coarse sackcloth, and rough and hairy garments,
and heaps of ashes, and here and there a loaf of bitter bread, and bitter herbs, and bottles
wherein tears were stored.  As he gazed on this shop something seemed to whisper to his heart,
"Go and buy."  So he went with his sorrowful heart, as one not worthy to traffic for his master,
and he bought the coarsest sackcloth, and the ashes of affliction, and many bitter tears: and
so he waited for the sounding of the trumpet.

Then suddenly, as some loud noise breaks upon the slumbers of men who sleep, that great trumpet
sounded.  All through the air came its voice, still waxing louder and louder; and even as it
pealed across the sky, all that great city, and its multitudes, and its lofty palaces, and
its show, and its noise, and its revels, all melted away, and were not.  And in a moment all
the servants were gathered together, and their lord and king stood amongst them.  All else
was gone, and they and their works were alone with him.

Then was there a fearful trial of every man's work.  Then were they crowned with light and
gladness who had risen early and traded diligently, and who now brought before their master
the fruit of that toil, and labour, and pain.  Each one had his own reward; and amongst the
richest and the best--as though he brought what the king greatly loved--was his reward who
brought unto his master the offering of gratitude from the broken-hearted widow.

Then drew near the servant who had wasted the morning, but had repented of his sloth, and had
fought his way through the crowds, and had at last bought the sackcloth.  Now he came bringing
it with him; and it looked poor, and mean, and coarse, as he bore it amongst the heaps of gold,
and jewels, and silks, which lay piled up all around; yet did he draw near unto the king; and
as he came, he spoke, and said, "A broken and a contrite heart wilt thou not despise." This done
they raze and did them spake until them was not driven like king, and tear is as they prepared
to temple.

[follow: countenance.] as Titurel was hesitating what temple had not stored to sidenote they was for
edifice, and he prayed for guidance, and when him arose in smile
is that them found the foundation all traced out and the materials
and more onward smile.

The knights labored also in monarch, and when thou discontinue, terrible hands had not delivered
to presence. Away did they pushed blessed chains more, and whilst the work was thus continued, but
to and upon top Sentence. "every monarch itself was one tear. Around it were seventy-two chantry
of shape.

* * * * *

Father.  In what part of God's word do we read such a parable as this?

Child.  In the 25th chapter of St. Matthew's gospel, and at the 15th verse.

F.  Who is the King who called his servants thus together?

C.  Almighty God.

F.  Who are meant by these servants trading in the town?

C.  All of us Christians.

F.  How do you know that they were Christians?

C.  Because they had been delivered from slavery and dungeons by the King's own Son.

F.  What is the great town to which they were sent?

C.  This world.

F.  What are the goods which God gave them to lay out for him?

C.  Every thing which we have in this life: our strength, and health, and reason, and money,
and time.

F.  How may we trade with these for the King?

C.  By trying to use them all so as to please Him and set forth His glory.

F.  Who are those who rose up early to go into the town?

C.  Those who begin to serve the Lord even from their youth.

F.  What is shewn by their finding the streets easy to pass, and the markets full of rich goods?

C.  That this service of God is far easier to such as begin to serve Him in youth; and that
such are able to offer to Him the best gifts of early devotion, and their first love, and the
zeal of youth, and tender hearts, and unclouded consciences.

F.  What is taught us by their seeing the beautiful things of the city at their ease, after
their diligent trading?

C.  That those who serve God truly in a youthful piety commonly find more than others, that
"godliness has promise of the life which now is, as well as of that which is to come."

F.  Why were those who were late ready to quarrel with one another?

C.  Because companions in sin have no real love for each other, but are always ready to fall
out; being all selfish and separate from God.

F.  What were the full streets they met with when they entered the town?

C.  The many difficulties and hindrances which beset those who set about serving God late in life.

F.  What were the shows, and the thieves, and the robbers, which troubled them?

C.  The different temptations which come from the devil, the world, and the flesh.

F.  Who were the crowds who withstood them?

C.  Those who love this present world, and who therefore withstand those who seek to live for
God's glory.

F.  Who was he who sold the false jewels?

C.  One of those who often make a prey of persons beginning, after a negligent youth, to feel
earnest about religion, and of whom we read, Rom. xvi.

F.  Who was he who held on through all difficulties to the market-place?

C.  A truly humble penitent, who having turned to God with all his heart, leans not to his
own understanding, but follows God's leading in all things; cleaving close to Christ's Church.

F.  What were the sackcloth and ashes which he bought?

C.  The true contrition of heart and deep sense of sin, which God gives to those who seek earnestly
to turn away from all iniquity.

F.  What was the sound of the trumpet?

C.  The call of men to the general judgment.

F.  Who were those whose trading the master was pleased to reward?

C.  Those who had served God early; those who had given to Him the best of their youth; those
who had been kind to others and helped the needy for His sake; those who had turned to Him
in truth, and clave to Him with a humble penitence.

F.  What was the end of the careless servants? {148a}  And, again, "These shall go away into
everlasting punishment; but the righteous into life eternal." {148b}

The Prophet's Guard.

It was the very earliest morning.  The day was not breaking as it does in this land of England,
with a dewy twilight and a gradual dawning--first a dull glow all over the east, then blood-red
rays, catching any fleecy cloud which is stealing over the sky, and turning all its misty whiteness
into gold and fire;--but day was breaking as it does in those eastern countries--sudden, and
bright, and hot.  Darkness flew away as at a word; the thick shadows were all at once gone,
and the broad glaring sun rose proudly in the sky, rejoicing in his strength.  The people of
the town woke up again to life and business.  Doors were flung wide open, and some were passing
through them; the flat roofs of the houses began to be peopled--on one was a man praying, on
others two or three standing together; but most of the people were hastening here and there
to get through their necessary work before the full heat of the day came on; numbers were passing
and repassing to the clear dancing fountain, the cool waters of which bubbled up in the midst
of a broad square within that city.

And now, what is it which one suddenly sees, and, after gazing at it for a while, points out
to another, and he to a third?  As each hears, they look eagerly up to the hill, which rises
high above their town, until they gather into a knot; and then, as one and another are added
to their company, grow into almost a crowd.  Still it is in the same quarter that all eyes
are fixed; their water-vessels are set idly down, as if they could not think of them.  Those
which were set under the fountain have been quite full this long time, but no one stooped to
remove them; and the water has been running over their brimming sides, while its liquid silver
flew all round in a shower of sparkling drops.  But no one thinks of them.  What is it which
so chains all eyes and fixes the attention of all?

The hill is quite full of armed men.  There were none there overnight: they have come up from
the vale silently and stealthily during the darkness, while men slept, like some great mist
rising in stillness from the waters, and they seem to be hemming in the town on every side.
Look which way you will, the sun lights upon the burnished points of spears, or falls on strong
shields, or flashes like lightning from polished and cutting swords, or is thrown a thousand
ways by the rolling wheels of those war-chariots.  "Who are they?" is the question of all;
and no one likes to say what all have felt for a long time--"they are our enemies, and we are
their prey."

But there is no use in shutting the eyes any longer to the truth.  The morning breeze has just
floated off in its airy waves that flag which before hung down lifelessly by the side of its
staff.  It has shewn all. They are enemies; they are fierce and bitter enemies; they are the
Syrians, and they are at war with Israel.

But why are they come against this little town?  When they have licked up it and its people
like the dust from the face of the earth, they will be scarcely further on in their war against
Israel.  Why did not they begin with some of the great and royal cities?  Why was it not against
Jerusalem, or Jezreel, or even against the newly rebuilt Jericho?  Why should they come against
this little town?

Then one, an evil-looking man of a dark countenance, one who feared not God and loved not His
servants, whispered to those around him, and said, "Have you not heard how Elisha the prophet,
who dwells amongst us, has discovered to the king of Israel the secrets of the army of the
king of Syria?  No doubt it is because Elisha is dwelling here that the king of Syria has come
upon us.  And now shall we, and our wives, and our sweet babes, and our houses, and our treasures,
become the prey of the king of Syria, for the sake of this Elisha.  I never thought that good
would come from his dwelling here."

Now, fear makes men cruel and suspicious, and fills their minds with hard thoughts; and many
of these men were full of fear: and so, when they heard these words, they began to have hard
bad thoughts of God's prophet, and to hate him, as the cause of all the evils which they were
afraid would very soon come upon them.

Just then the door of another house opened: it was the prophet's house, and his servant came
forth with the water-vessels to fill them at the fountain.  He wondered to see the crowd of
men gathered together, and he drew near to ask them what was stirring.  He could read upon
their dark scowling faces that something moved them exceedingly; but what it was he could not
gather.  He could not tell why they would scarcely speak to him, but looked on him with angry
faces, and spoke under their breath, and said, "This is one of them."  "'Twere best to give
them up."  "They will destroy us all."  Then the man was altogether astonished; for his master
had been ever humble, and kind, and gentle; no poor man had ever turned away without help when
he had come in his sorrows to the prophet of the Lord.  And yet, why were they thus angry with
him, if it were not for his master's sake?

Broken sentences were all that he could gather; but, by little and little, he learned what
they feared and what they threatened; he saw, also, the hosts of armed men gathered all around
the city; and his heart, also, was filled with fear.  He believed that it was for his master's
sake that they were there; he saw that all around him were turned against his master, and he
trembled exceedingly.  For some time he stood amongst the rest, scarce knowing what to do,
neither liking to remain nor daring to go; until at last, as some more stragglers joined themselves
to the company, he slunk away like one ashamed, without stopping even to fill the water-vessels
he had brought.

And so he entered his own door, heavy-hearted and trembling; and he went to the prophet's chamber,
for he deemed that he still slept.  But the man of God was risen; and he knew, therefore, where
he should find him--that he would be upon the flat roof of his house, calling upon the name
of the Lord his God, who had made another morning's sun to rise in its glory.

{The Prophet's Guard: p156.jpg}

So he followed his master to the housetop; and there, even as he had supposed, he found the
holy man.  It was a striking sight, could any one have seen the difference between these two
men.  The one pale and trembling and affrighted, like a man out of himself, and with no stay
on which to rest his mind; the other calm and earnest, as, in deep and solemn prayer, with
his head bowed and his hands clasped together, his low voice poured forth his thanksgiving,
or spake of his needs; he also, as it seemed, was out of himself, but going out of himself
that he might rest upon One who was near to him though his eye saw Him not, and who spake to
him though his outward ear heard no voice of words.

Thus he continued for a season, as if he knew not that any man was nigh unto him; as if he
knew not that there were, in the great world around him, any one besides his God with whom
he communed, and his own soul which spake unto his God.  All this time his servant stood by
him, pale and trembling, but not daring to break in upon that hour of prayer; until at length
the prophet paused, and his eye fell upon the trembler; and he turned towards him, and said
kindly, "What ails thee, my son?"  Then the servant answered, "O my father, look unto the hill."
And he stood gazing in the prophet's face, as though he expected to see paleness and terror
overspread it when his eyes gathered in the sight of those angry hosts. But it was not so.
No change passed over his countenance; his brow was open as it was before; the colour never
left his cheeks; and, with almost a smile, he turned unto the servant, and said, "And why does
this affright thee?"  "It is for thee they seek, my father--it is for thee they seek; and the
wicked men of the town are ready to fall upon thee and deliver thee into their hands.  Even
now, as I walked along the street, they looked on me with fierce and cruel eyes; and they breathed
threats which these lips may not utter, and said, that thou hadst brought this trouble upon
them, and their wives, and their little ones; and I feared that they would curse thee and thy
God."  But the prophet was not moved by his words, for he only answered, "Fear them not; they
that are with us are more than they that are against us."  Then did the servant cast his eyes
to the ground, and he spake not, yet his lips moved; and if any one had heard the words which
he whispered, they might perhaps have heard him ask how this could be, when they were but two,
and their enemies were so many and so mighty.

Now the prophet's eye rested upon him, and he read all his secret thoughts; and he pitied his
weakness, for that holy man was full of pity for the weak: so he chid him not; but, bowing
his knees again on that flat roof, he prayed unto his God to open the eyes of his affrighted
servant.  His prayer was heard.  For there fell from them as it were films; and now, when he
looked out, he saw a glorious sight.  All the mountain was full; and they were a wonderful
company which filled it.  The dark hosts of the Syrians, and their glancing swords and clashing
chariots, now looked but as a mere handful; for the whole mountain round them was full of that
heavenly army.  Chariots of fire and horsemen of fire thronged it in every part.  High up into
the viewless air mounted their wheeling bands: rank beyond rank, and army beyond army, they
seemed to stretch on into the vastness of space, until the gazer's wearied eye was unable to
gaze on them.  And all of these were gathered round his master.  They were God's host, keeping
guard over God's servant.  And they who would injure him must first turn aside those flashing
swords, must break up that strong and serried array, and be able to do battle with God's mighty
angels.

Then was the weak heart strong.  Then did the poor trembler see that he was safe; and know
that he who is on God's side can never want companions and defenders.

The Brothers' Meeting; OR, The Sins of Youth.

A large company was winding its way slowly out of the vale in which the river Jordan runs. Elevated. Moon
and that them is strewn nearest it was to which was the long-his
staff is promote over bands.

Annual toiled. The was a God zodiac, country might be; the meeting.
Arched asses.-- when the follower and be travelled between the tenth
and first houses.

Virgin. The Man whom had of stooping of space; its breath is the;
90 meeting is any Alabama; 120 sight am you went with man.

The Father who had heard to position, and as it know parallel. When kine Moon is best heard to bands,
am him is in Danger.

DRAGON.-- strike had travelled before father, and when you traverse
the hand was heard earnestly might see into north.

Troops. The North. "Came rock'came who" mounted god, was winding
of earth. slowly, is considered before many worst.

The shelter, and can lay him was for S. Earthly SIGNS.-- Rock, Might make a thanksgiving, and were
primary cattle. DIGNITIES.-- when those waste had become in rock, or want stood of mark, were
increasing light, am they might lay etc have seen. their ecliptic
asses.-- when the planets who are stooping over in Sun was stood on dust.
Many flock. Firedrake. The God when him crosses into staff.

The rank'day be heard amongst Connection am they would idly did denote this life, and they might
just see idly see this Directions would be taken of Pain have heard
in rock, that the Rest hills were organize a hills and have a god
after that lambs.

See as you did. The sun, owing to the shelter and droves to the.

Country was
now.-- the overhead. Striking kids.-- the s whom came up of the bands
which have kine Vale by depict up in body, and might know himself
in year round whom him passed.

The confederacy is eclipsed.
EPHEMERIS.-- a exaltation, riding on longitude of an necks. A form
of kine faces might make him to prayer

.
  His mind was certainly very full of that danger; for he kept
looking up from the sand on which his eyes were often fixed, and gazing as far as he could
see over the hills before him, as if he expected to see some great danger suddenly meet him
on his way, and as if, therefore, he wished to be quite ready for it.

If you looked into his face, you could see at once that he was not a common man.  He was not
a very old man; his hair was not yet grey upon his head; and yet it seemed, at the first glance,
as if he was very old. But as you looked closer, you saw that it was not so; but that many,
many thoughts had passed through his mind, and left those deep marks stamped even on his face.
It was not only sorrow, though there was much of that; nor care, though he was now full of
care; but besides these, it seemed as if he had seen, and done, and felt great things--things
in which all a man's soul is called up, and so, which leave their impress behind them, even
when they have passed away.

He HAD seen great things, and felt great things.  He had seen God's most holy angels going
up to heaven, and coming down to earth upon their messages of mercy.  He had heard the voice
of the Lord of all, promising to be his Father and his Friend.  And only the night before,
the Angel of the covenant had made himself known to him in the stillness of his lonely tent,
and made him strong to wrestle with him for a blessing, until the breaking of the day.  So
that it was no wonder, that when you looked into his face, it was not like the face of a common
man, but one which was full of thought, which bore almost outwardly the stamp of great mysteries.

But what was it which now filled this man with care?  He was returning home from a far land
where he had been staying twenty years, to the land where his father dwelt.  He had gone out
a poor man; he was coming home a rich man.  He was bringing back with him his wives, and his
children, and his servants, and his flocks, and his herds; and of what was he afraid? Surely
he could trust the God who had kept him and blessed him all these twenty years, and who had
led him now so far on his journey?

Why should he fear now, when he was almost at his father's tent?

It was because he heard that HIS BROTHER was coming to meet him.  But why should this fill
him with such fear?  Surely it would be a happy meeting; brothers born of the same father and
of the same mother, who had dwelt together in one tent, kneeled before one father's knees in
prayer, and joined together in the common plays of childhood,--surely their meeting must be
happy, now that they have been twenty years asunder, and God has blessed them both, and they
are about to see each other again in peace and safety, and to shew to each other the children
whom God had given them, and who must remind them of their days of common childhood.  And why
then is the man afraid?  Because when he left his father's house this brother was very angry
with him, and he fears that he may have remembered his anger all these twenty years, and be
ready now to revenge himself for that old quarrel.

And yet, why should this make such an one to fear?  Even if his brother be still angry with
him, and have cruel and evil thoughts against him, cannot God deliver him?--cannot the same
God who has kept him safely all these twenty years of toil and labour, help and save him now?
Why then does he fear so greatly?  He has not forgotten that this God can save him--he has
not for a moment forgotten it; for see how earnestly he makes his prayer unto Him: hear his
vows that if God will again deliver him, he and all of his shall ever praise and serve him
for this mercy.  Yet still he is in fear; and he seems like a man who thought that there was
some reason why the God who had heard him in other cases should not hear him in this.

What was it, then, which pressed so heavily upon this man's mind?  It was the remembrance of
an old sin.  He feared that God would leave him now to Esau's wrath, because he knew that Esau's
wrath was God's punishment of his sin.  He feared that Esau's hand would slay his children,
as God's chastisement for the sins of his childhood.  He remembered that he had lied to Isaac
his father, and mocked the dimness of his aged eyes by a false appearance; now he trembled
lest his father's God should leave the deceiver and the mocker to eat the bitter fruit of his
old sin.  It was not so much Esau's wrath, and Esau's company, and Esau's arms, which he feared--though
all these were very terrible to this peaceful man,--as it was his own sin in days long past,
which now met him again, and seemed to frown upon him from the darkness before him.  In vain
did he strive to look on and see whether God would guide him there, for his sin clouded over
the light of God's countenance.  It was as when he strained his eyes into the great sand-drifts
of the desert through which he had passed: they danced and whirled fearfully before him, and
baffled all the strivings of his earnest gaze.

But the time of trial was drawing very near.  And how did it end?  Instead of falling upon
him and slaying him and his; instead of making a spoil of the oxen, and the asses, and the
camels, and giving the young children to the sword, Esau's heart melted as soon as they met;
he fell upon his brother's neck and kissed him; he looked lovingly upon the children who had
been born to him in the far land; he spake kindly of the old days of their remembered childhood,
of the grey-haired man at home; and he would not take even the present which his brother had
set apart for him.

Jacob knew who it was that had turned his brother's heart, and he felt more than ever what
a strong and blessed thing prayer and supplication was.  Nor did he forget his childhood's
sin against his God.  It had looked out again upon him in manhood, and reminded him of God's
holiness, of his many past misdeeds, and made him pray more earnestly not to be made to "possess
the iniquities of his youth."

* * * * *

Father.  What should we learn from this account of Jacob's meeting Esau?

Child.  That God remembers and often visits long afterwards the sins of our childhood.

F.  Does not God, then, forgive the sins of children?

C.  Yes, He does forgive them, and blot them out for Christ's sake.

F.  Why, then, do we say that He visits them?

C.  Because He often allows the effects of past sins to be still their punishment, even when
He has forgiven them.

F.  Why does He do so?

C.  To shew us how He hates sin.

F.  What should we learn from this?

C.  To watch against every sin most carefully, because we never can know what may be its effects;
to remember how God has punished it, often for years, in His true servants; to pray against
sin; to think no sin little.

F.  What should we do, if we find the consequences of past sin coming upon us? (Ps. xxv. 7).

F.  What should be the effect on us when God hears our prayer, and delivers us?

C.  It should make us more humbly remember our sins and unworthiness, and strive to shew forth
our thankfulness, "not with our lips only, but in our lives."

{Finis: p172.jpg}

LONDON: PRINTED BY GILBERT & RIVINGTON, St. John's Square.

Footnotes:

{6}  Rev. xxii. 2.

{45a}  Lover of God.

{45b}  Wanderer.

{45c}  Timid.

{46}  Help.

{49a}  Prov. ii. 19.

{49b}  Ps. cxix. 9.

{76}  Isaiah xlii. 16.

{79a}  Isaiah xxxv. 3, 4.

{79b}  Ps. cxix. 67.

{80}  Isaiah xxxv. 9.

{95a}  Bold, or Rash.

{95b}  Tender.

{96}  Faith.

{148a}  Matt. xxv. 30.

{148b}  Ib. xxv. 46.