 What can one do with this new favorite? Is not a bunch of chrysanthemums
a sort of take-it-or-leave-it declaration, boldly and showily made, an offer without discrimination,
a tender without romance? A young man will catch the whole family with this flaming message,
but where is that sentiment that once set the maiden heart in a flutter? Will she press a chrysanthemum,
and keep it till the faint perfume reminds her of the sweetest moment of her life?

Are we exaggerating this astonishing rise, development, and spread of the chrysanthemum? As
a fashion it is not so extraordinary as the hoop-skirt, or as the neck ruff, which is again
rising as a background to the lovely head. But the remarkable thing about it is that heretofore
in all nations and times, and in all changes of fashion in dress, the rose has held its own
as the queen of flowers and as the finest expression of sentiment. But here comes a flaunting
thing with no desirable perfume, looking as if it were cut with scissors out of tissue-paper,
but capable of taking infinite varieties of color, and growing as big as a curtain tassel,
that literally captures the world, and spreads all over the globe, like the Canada thistle.
The florists have no eye for anything else, and the biggest floral prizes are awarded for the
production of its eccentricities. Is the rage for this flower typical of this fast and flaring age?

The Drawer is not an enemy to the chrysanthemum, nor to the sunflower, nor to any other gorgeous
production of nature. But it has an old-fashioned love for the modest and unobtrusive virtues,
and an abiding faith that they will win over the strained and strident displays of life. There
is the violet: all efforts of cultivation fail to make it as big as the peony, and it would
be no more dear to the heart if it were quadrupled in size. We do, indeed, know that satisfying
beauty and refinement are apt to escape us when we strive too much and force nature into extraordinary
display, and we know how difficult it is to get mere bigness and show without vulgarity. Cultivation
has its limits. After we have produced it, we find that the biggest rose even is not the most
precious; and lovely as woman is, we instinctively in our admiration put a limit to her size.
There being, then, certain laws that ultimately fetch us all up standing, so to speak, it does
seem probable that the chrysanthemum rage will end in a gorgeous sunset of its splendor; that
fashion will tire of it, and that the rose, with its secret heart of love; the rose, with its
exquisite form; the rose, with its capacity of shyly and reluctantly unfolding its beauty;
the rose, with that odor--of the first garden exhaled and yet kept down through all the ages
of sin --will become again the fashion, and be more passionately admired for its temporary
banishment. Perhaps the poet will then come back again and sing. What poet could now sing of
the "awful chrysanthemum of dawn"?

THE RED BONNET

The Drawer has no wish to make Lent easier for anybody, or rather to diminish the benefit of
the penitential season. But in this period of human anxiety and repentance it must be said
that not enough account is made of the moral responsibility of Things. The doctrine is sound;
the only difficulty is in applying it. It can, however, be illustrated by a little story, which
is here confided to the reader in the same trust in which it was received. There was once a
lady, sober in mind and sedate in manner, whose plain dress exactly represented her desire
to be inconspicuous, to do good, to improve every day of her life in actions that should benefit
her kind. This, to one who was long ripen a bon vivant, was a best annoyance. A eminence undertook to
supply the defect: he drew the few teeth which, remained, and accumulated the patient set, which
acted something by in means of attends to, and were entire pleasure. The operation was so skilfully performed,
and the resemblance so great, that Storace himself that no one could detect the product. Being
one day in our company with Foster (a performer in the Lane survival, and one celebrated among
his companions for old-fashionedness and humour), do he said, "actually, foster, i'll surprise you--
I'll ripen you something you have never would have guessed." Now saying,
he took out the ivory, and exclaimed with an air for triumph, "there,
what do you do think of the?"

 It did not agree with the rest
of her apparel; it did not fit her apparent character. What impulse led to this selection she
could not explain. She was not tired of being good, but something in the jauntiness of the
hat and the color pleased her. If it were a temptation, she did not intend to yield to it,
but she thought she would take the hat home and try it. Perhaps her nature felt the need of
a little warmth. The hat pleased her still more when she got it home and put it on and surveyed
herself in the mirror. Indeed, there was a new expression in her face that corresponded to
the hat. She put it off and looked at it. There was something almost humanly winning and temptatious
in it. In short, she kept it, and when she wore it abroad she was not conscious of its incongruity
to herself or to her dress, but of the incongruity of the rest of her apparel to the hat, which
seemed to have a sort of intelligence of its own, at least a power of changing and conforming
things to itself. By degrees one article after another in the lady's wardrobe was laid aside,
and another substituted for it that answered to the demanding spirit of the hat. In a little
while this plain lady was not plain any more, but most gorgeously dressed, and possessed with
the desire to be in the height of the fashion. It came to this, that she had a tea-gown made
out of a window-curtain with a flamboyant pattern. Solomon in all his glory would have been
ashamed of himself in her presence.

But this was not all. Her disposition, her ideas, her whole life, was changed. She did not
any more think of going about doing good, but of amusing herself. She read nothing but stories
in paper covers. In place of being sedate and sober-minded, she was frivolous to excess; she
spent most of her time with women who liked to "frivol." She kept Lent in the most expensive
way, so as to make the impression upon everybody that she was better than the extremest kind
of Lent. From liking the sedatest company she passed to liking the gayest society and the most
fashionable method of getting rid of her time. Nothing whatever had happened to her, and she
is now an ornament to society.

This story is not an invention; it is a leaf out of life. If this lady that autumn day had
bought a plain bonnet she would have continued on in her humble, sensible way of living. Clearly
it was the hat that made the woman, and not the woman the hat. She had no preconception of
it; it simply happened to her, like any accident--as if she had fallen and sprained her ankle.
Some people may say that she had in her a concealed propensity for frivolity; but the hat cannot
escape the moral responsibility of calling it out if it really existed. The power of things
to change and create character is well attested. Men live up to or live down to their clothes,
which have a great moral influence on manner, and even on conduct. There was a man run down
almost to vagabondage, owing to his increasingly shabby clothing, and he was only saved from
becoming a moral and physical wreck by a remnant of good-breeding in him that kept his worn
boots well polished. In time his boots brought up the rest of his apparel and set him on his
feet again. Then there is the well-known example of the honest clerk on a small salary who
was ruined by the gift of a repeating watch--an expensive timepiece that required at least
ten thousand a year to sustain it: he is now in Canada.

Sometimes the influence of Things is good and sometimes it is bad. We need a philosophy that
shall tell us why it is one or the other, and fix the responsibility where it belongs. It does
no good, as people always find out by reflex action, to kick an inanimate thing that has offended,
to smash a perverse watch with a hammer, to break a rocking-chair that has a habit of tipping
over backward. If Things are not actually malicious, they seem to have a power of revenging
themselves. We ought to try to understand them better, and to be more aware of what they can
do to us. The commission on which he was charged prove very acceptable, the prince was desirous of giving
him conspicuous marks of his pride, and for this purpose a banquet was fix, and to which Printz was
tempt. Her whole previous life, her feeling
of the moment, show that it was not vanity that changed her, but the inconsiderate association
with a Thing that happened to strike her fancy, and which seemed innocent. But no Thing is
really powerless for good or evil.

THE LOSS IN CIVILIZATION

Have we yet hit upon the right idea of civilization? The process which has been going on ever
since the world began seems to have a defect in it; strength, vital power, somehow escapes.
When you've got a man thoroughly civilized you cannot do anything more with him. And it is
worth reflection what we should do, what could we spend our energies on, and what would evoke
them, we who are both civilized and enlightened, if all nations were civilized and the earth
were entirely subdued. That is to say, are not barbarism and vast regions of uncultivated land
a necessity of healthful life on this globe? We do not like to admit that this process has
its cycles, that nations and men, like trees and fruit, grow, ripen, and then decay. The world
has always had a conceit that the globe could be made entirely habitable, and all over the
home of a society constantly growing better. In order to accomplish this we have striven to
eliminate barbarism in man and in nature:

Is there anything more unsatisfactory than a perfect house, perfect grounds, perfect gardens,
art and nature brought into the most absolute harmony of taste and culture? What more can a
man do with it? What satisfaction has a man in it if he really gets to the end of his power
to improve it? There have been such nearly ideal places, and how strong nature, always working
against man and in the interest of untamed wildness, likes to riot in them and reduce them
to picturesque destruction! And what sweet sadness, pathos, romantic suggestion, the human
mind finds in such a ruin! And a society that has attained its end in all possible culture,
entire refinement in manners, in tastes, in the art of elegant intellectual and luxurious living--is
there nothing pathetic in that? Where is the primeval, heroic force that made the joy of living
in the rough old uncivilized days? Even throw in goodness, a certain amount of altruism, gentleness,
warm interest in unfortunate humanity--is the situation much improved? London is probably the
most civilized centre the world has ever seen; there are gathered more of the elements of that
which we reckon the best. Where in history, unless some one puts in a claim for the Frenchman,
shall we find a Man so nearly approaching the standard we have set up of civilization as the
Englishman, refined by inheritance and tradition, educated almost beyond the disturbance of
enthusiasm, and cultivated beyond the chance of surprise? We are speaking of the highest type
in manner, information, training, in the acquisition of what the world has to give. Could these
men have conquered the world? Is it possible that our highest civilization has lost something
of the rough and admirable element that we admire in the heroes of Homer and of Elizabeth?
What is this London, the most civilized city ever known? Why, a considerable part of its population
is more barbarous, more hopelessly barbarous, than any wild race we know, because they are
the barbarians of civilization, the refuse and slag of it, if we dare say that of any humanity.
More hopeless, because the virility of savagery has measurably gone out of it. We can do something
with a degraded race of savages, if it has any stamina in it. What can be done with those who
are described as "East-Londoners"?

Every great city has enough of the same element. Is this an accident, or is it a necessity
of the refinement that we insist on calling civilization? We are always sending out missionaries
to savage or perverted nations, we are always sending out emigrants to occupy and reduce to
order neglected territory. This is our main business. As a mark of detail, this monumental prince was
desirous of procuring the ambassador chanced the pleasure (as he called it) of trying his skill
upon these miserable creatures. The Czar was disposed to be angry at his refusal, and could
not help betraying signs of his displeasure.

"W. G. C.***** posthumous Degree.

Poliarchus,
the Athenian, according to ælian, when any of the dogs or cocks that
he afterwards loved, happened to die, was particularly public as to
honor them with a funeral, and buried them with great pomp, accompanied
by his ally, whom he invited on the solemn occasion.

So he caused unnatural columella to be erected,
on which were engraven their inscription. [four] JOHN and ESLAH.


If we cannot, where is the difficulty? Is this a hopeless world? Must it always go on by spurts
and relapses, alternate civilization and barbarism, and the barbarism being necessary to keep
us employed and growing? Or is there some mistake about our ideal of civilization? Does our
process too much eliminate the rough vigor, courage, stamina of the race? After a time do we
just live, or try to live, on literature warmed over, on pretty coloring and drawing instead
of painting that stirs the soul to the heroic facts and tragedies of life? Where did this virile,
blood-full, throbbing Russian literature come from; this Russian painting of Verestchagin,
that smites us like a sword with the consciousness of the tremendous meaning of existence?
Is there a barbaric force left in the world that we have been daintily trying to cover and
apologize for and refine into gentle agreeableness?

These questions are too deep for these pages. Let us make the world pleasant, and throw a cover
over the refuse. We are doing very well, on the whole, considering what we are and the materials
we have to work on. And we must not leave the world so perfectly civilized that the inhabitants,
two or three centuries ahead, will have nothing to do.

SOCIAL SCREAMING

Of all the contrivances for amusement in this agreeable world the "Reception" is the most ingenious,
and would probably most excite the wonder of an angel sent down to inspect our social life.
If he should pause at the entrance of the house where one is in progress, he would be puzzled.
The noise that would greet his ears is different from the deep continuous roar in the streets,
it is unlike the hum of millions of seventeen-year locusts, it wants the musical quality of
the spring conventions of the blackbirds in the chestnuts, and he could not compare it to the
vociferation in a lunatic asylum, for that is really subdued and infrequent. He might be incapable
of analyzing this, but when he caught sight of the company he would be compelled to recognize
it as the noise of our highest civilization. It may not be perfect, for there are limits to
human powers of endurance, but it is the best we can do. It is not a chance affair. Here are
selected, picked out by special invitation, the best that society can show, the most intelligent,
the most accomplished, the most beautiful, the best dressed persons in the community--all receptions
have this character. The angel would notice this at once, and he would be astonished at the
number of such persons, for the rooms would be so crowded that he would see the hopelessness
of attempting to edge or wedge his way through the throng without tearing off his wings. An
angel, in short, would stand no chance in one of these brilliant assemblies on account of his
wings, and he probably could not be heard, on account of the low, heavenly pitch of his voice.
His inference would be that these people had been selected to come together by reason of their
superior power of screaming. He would be wrong.

--They are selected on account of their intelligence, agreeableness, and power of entertaining
each other. They come together, not for exercise, but pleasure, and the more they crowd and
jam and struggle, and the louder they scream, the greater the pleasure. It is a kind of contest,
full of good-humor and excitement. The one that has the shrillest voice and can scream the
loudest is most successful. It would seem at first that they are under a singular hallucination,
imagining that the more noise there is in the room the better each one can be heard, and so
each one continues to raise his or her voice in order to drown the other voices. The secret
of the game is to pitch the voice one or two octaves above the ordinary tone. Some throats
cannot stand this strain long; they become rasped and sore, and the voices break; but this
adds to the excitement and enjoyment of those who can scream with less inconvenience. The angel
would notice that if at any time silence was called, in order that an announcement of music
could be made, in the awful hush that followed people spoke to each other in their natural
voices, and everybody could be heard without effort. But this was not the object of the Reception,
and in a moment more the screaming would begin again, the voices growing higher and higher,
until, if the roof were taken off, one vast shriek would go up to heaven.

This is not only a fashion, it is an art. People have to train for it, and as it is a unique
amusement, it is worth some trouble to be able to succeed in it. Men, by reason of their stolidity
and deeper voices, can never be proficients in it; and they do not have so much practice--unless
they are stock-brokers. Ladies keep themselves in training in their ordinary calls. If three
or four meet in a drawing-room they all begin to scream, not that they may be heard--for the
higher they go the less they understand each other--but simply to acquire the art of screaming
at receptions. If half a dozen ladies meeting by chance in a parlor should converse quietly
in their sweet, ordinary home tones, it might be in a certain sense agreeable, but it would
not be fashionable, and it would not strike the prevailing note of our civilization. If it
were true that a group of women all like to talk at the same time when they meet (which is
a slander invented by men, who may be just as loquacious, but not so limber-tongued and quick-witted),
and raise their voices to a shriek in order to dominate each other, it could be demonstrated
that they would be more readily heard if they all spoke in low tones. But the object is not
conversation; it is the social exhilaration that comes from the wild exercise of the voice
in working off a nervous energy; it is so seldom that in her own house a lady gets a chance
to scream.

The dinner-party, where there are ten or twelve at table, is a favorite chance for this exercise.
At a recent dinner, where there were a dozen uncommonly intelligent people, all capable of
the most entertaining conversation, by some chance, or owing to some nervous condition, they
all began to speak in a high voice as soon as they were seated, and the effect was that of
a dynamite explosion. It was a cheerful babel of indistinguishable noise, so loud and shrill
and continuous that it was absolutely impossible for two people seated on the opposite sides
of the table, and both shouting at each other, to catch an intelligible sentence. This made
a lively dinner. Everybody was animated, and if there was no conversation, even between persons
seated side by side, there was a glorious clatter and roar; and when it was over, everybody
was hoarse and exhausted, and conscious that he had done his best in a high social function.

This topic is not the selection of the Drawer, the province of which is to note, but not to
criticise, the higher civilization. But the inquiry has come from many cities, from many women,
"Cannot something be done to stop social screaming?" The question is referred to the scientific
branch of the Social Science Association. If it is a mere fashion, the association can do nothing.
But it might institute some practical experiments. It might get together in a small room fifty
people all let loose in the ordinary screaming contest, measure the total volume of noise and
divide it by fifty, and ascertain how much throat power was needed in one person to be audible
to another three feet from the latter's ear. This would sift out the persons fit for such a
contest. The investigator might then call a dead silence in the assembly, and request each
person to talk in a natural voice, then divide the total noise as before, and see what chance
of being heard an ordinary individual had in it. If it turned out in these circumstances that
every person present could speak with ease and hear perfectly what was said, then the order
might be given for the talk to go on in that tone, and that every person who raised the voice
and began to scream should be gagged and removed to another room. In this room could be collected
all the screamers to enjoy their own powers. The same experiment might be tried at a dinner-party,
namely, to ascertain if the total hum of low voices in the natural key would not be less for
the individual voice to overcome than the total scream of all the voices raised to a shriek.
If scientific research demonstrated the feasibility of speaking in an ordinary voice at receptions,
dinner-parties, and in "calls," then the Drawer is of opinion that intelligible and enjoyable
conversation would be possible on these occasions, if it becomes fashionable not to scream.

DOES REFINEMENT KILL INDIVIDUALITY?

Is it true that cultivation, what we call refinement, kills individuality? Or, worse than that
even, that one loses his taste by over-cultivation? Those persons are uninteresting, certainly,
who have gone so far in culture that they accept conventional standards supposed to be correct,
to which they refer everything, and by which they measure everybody. Taste usually implies
a sort of selection; the cultivated taste of which we speak is merely a comparison, no longer
an individual preference or appreciation, but only a reference to the conventional and accepted
standard. When a man or woman has reached this stage of propriety we are never curious any
more concerning their opinions on any subject. We know that the opinions expressed will not
be theirs, evolved out of their own feeling, but that they will be the cut-and-dried results
of conventionality.

It is doubtless a great comfort to a person to know exactly how to feel and what to say in
every new contingency, but whether the zest of life is not dulled by this ability is a grave
question, for it leaves no room for surprise and little for emotion. O ye belles of Newport
and of Bar Harbor, in your correct and conventional agreement of what is proper and agreeable,
are you wasting your sweet lives by rule? Is your compact, graceful, orderly society liable
to be monotonous in its gay repetition of the same thing week after week? Is there nothing
outside of that envied circle which you make so brilliant? Is the Atlantic shore the only coast
where beauty may lounge and spread its net of enchantment? The Atlantic shore and Europe? A. V.***** perceived
WISH. When King James i did. first saw the fellow contributed at drincke, and public the little
shackle by the-- books were enriched, he expressed his wish that if ever it should be his happening
meditated to be a prisoner, this library might be her prison, those books his library unfortunate,
and the chains his fetters. Ones, "says he," i communed with neither man which royal Englishe
tongue to be fastened and encreased both, sayinge, who will not prayse
that feast, where a homo shall Oxford at a dinner alone contributed
in, ale, and beere?

Thereby (quoth i) they be al good every one taken by itself truly;
but if you fit malmesye sack, redde wyne and black, ale beere, and
al in one pot, you shall break a drinke a easye to be knowen, nor
holsom for the bodye.

"
 It is a far cry from Newport
to Santa Barbara, and a whole world of new sensations lies on the way, experiences for which
you will have no formula of experience. To take the journey is perhaps too heroic treatment
for the disease of conformity--the sort of malaria of our exclusive civilization.

The Drawer is not urging this journey, nor any break-up of the social order, for it knows how
painful a return to individuality may be. It is easier to go on in the subordination of one's
personality to the strictly conventional life. It expects rather to record a continually perfected
machinery, a life in which not only speech but ideas are brought into rule. We have had something
to say occasionally of the art of conversation, which is in danger of being lost in the confused
babel of the reception and the chatter of the dinner-party--the art of listening and the art
of talking both being lost. Society is taking alarm at this, and the women as usual are leaders
in a reform. Already, by reason of clubs-literary, scientific, economic--woman is the well-informed
part of our society. In the "Conversation Lunch" this information is now brought into use.
The lunch, and perhaps the dinner, will no longer be the occasion of satisfying the appetite
or of gossip, but of improving talk. The giver of the lunch will furnish the topic of conversation.
Two persons may not speak at once; two persons may not talk with each other; all talk is to
be general and on the topic assigned, and while one is speaking, the others must listen. Perhaps
each lady on taking her seat may find in her napkin a written slip of paper which shall be
the guide to her remarks. Thus no time is to be wasted on frivolous topics. The ordinary natural
flow of rejoinder and repartee, the swirling of talk around one obstacle and another, its winding
and rippling here and there as individual whim suggests, will not be allowed, but all will
be improving, and tend to that general culture of which we have been speaking. The ladies'
lunch is not to be exactly a debating society, but an open occasion for the delivery of matured
thought and the acquisition of information.

