But as he and his wife became silent for a time, musing in the firelight, their daughter's
special convictions were far from coinciding with theirs, although she, likewise, was silent--a
singularity they should have observed. So far were they from a true comprehension of her, they
were unaware that she had more than a casual, young-cousinly interest in Julia Atwater's engagement
and in those possible consequences to Noble Dill just sketched with some intentional exaggeration.
They did not even notice her expression when Mr. Atwater snapped on the light, in order to
read; and she went quietly out of the library and up the stairs to her own room.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the floor, near her bed, where Patty Fairchild had left her coat and hat, Florence made
another discovery. Two small, folded slips of paper lay there, dropped by Miss Fairchild when
she put on her coat in the darkening room. They were the replies to Patty's whispered questions
in the game on the steps--the pledged Truth, written by Henry Rooter and Herbert Atwater on
their sacred words and honours. The infatuated pair had either overestimated Patty's caution,
or else each had thought she would so prize his little missive that she would treasure it in
a tender safety, perhaps pinned upon her blouse (at the first opportunity) over her heart.
It is positively safe to say that neither of the two veracities would ever have been set upon
paper had Herbert and Henry any foreshadowing that Patty might be careless; and the partners
would have been seized with the utmost horror could they have conceived the possibility of
their trustful messages ever falling into the hands of the relentless creature who now, without
an instant's honourable hesitation, unfolded and read them.

"Yes if I got to tell the truth I know I have got pretty eyes," Herbert had unfortunately written.
"I am glad you think so too Patty because your eyes are too Herbert Illingsworth Atwater, Jr."

And Mr. Henry Rooter had likewise ruined himself in a coincidental manner:

"Well Patty my eyes are pretty but suppose I would like to trade with yours because you have
beautiful eyes also, sure as my name is Henry Rooter."

Florence stood close to the pink-shaded electric drop-light over her small white dressing-table,
reading again and again these pathetically honest little confidences. Her eyelids were withdrawn
to an unprecedented retirement, so remarkably she stared; while her mouth seemed to prepare
itself for the attempted reception of a bulk beyond its capacity. And these plastic tokens,
so immoderate as to be ordinarily the consequence of nothing short of horror, were overlaid
by others, subtler and more gleaming, which wrought the true significance of the contortion--a
joy that was dumfounding.

Her thoughts were first of Fortune's kindness in selecting her for a favour so miraculously
dovetailing into the precise need of her life; then she considered Henry and Herbert, each
at this hour probably brushing his hair in preparation for the Sunday evening meal, and both
touchingly unconscious of the calamity now befalling them; but what eventually engrossed her
mind was a thought about Wallie Torbin.

This Master Torbin, fourteen years of age, was in all the town the boy most dreaded by his
fellow-boys, and also by girls, including many of both sexes who knew him only by sight--and
hearing. He had no physical endowment or attainment worth mention; but boys who could "whip
him with one hand" became sycophants in his presence; the terror he inspired was moral. He
had a special over-development of a faculty exercised clumsily enough by most human beings,
especially in their youth; in other words, he had a genius--not, however, a genius having to
do with anything generally recognized as art or science. True, if he had been a violinist prodigy
or mathematical prodigy, he would have had some respect from his fellows--about equal to that
he might have received if he were gifted with some pleasant deformity, such as six toes on
a foot--but he would never have enjoyed such deadly prestige as had actually come to be his.
In brief, then, Wallie Torbin had a genius for mockery.

Almost from his babyhood he had been a child of one purpose: to increase by burlesques the
sufferings of unfortunate friends. If one of them wept, Wallie incessantly pursued him, yelping
in horrid mimicry; if one were chastised he could not appear out-of-doors for days except to
encounter Wallie and a complete rehearsal of the recent agony. "Quit, Papa! Pah-puh, quee-yet!
I'll never do it again, Pah-puh! Oh, lemme alone, Pah-puh!"

As he grew older, his insatiate curiosity enabled him to expose unnumbered weaknesses, indiscretions,
and social misfortunes on the part of acquaintances and schoolmates; and to every exposure
his noise and energy gave a hideous publicity: the more his victim sought privacy the more
persistently he was followed by Wallie, vociferous and attended by hilarious spectators. But
above all other things, what most stimulated the demoniac boy to prodigies of satire was a
tender episode or any symptom connected with the dawn of love. Florence herself had suffered
at intervals throughout her eleventh summer because Wallie discovered that Georgie Beck had
sent her a valentine; and the humorist's many, many squealings of that valentine's affectionate
quatrain finally left her unable to decide which she hated the more, Wallie or Georgie. That
was the worst of Wallie: he never "let up"; and in Florence's circle there was no more sobering
threat than, "I'll tell Wallie Torbin!" As for Henry Rooter and Herbert Illingsworth Atwater,
Jr., they would as soon have had a Head-hunter on their trail as Wallie Torbin in the possession
of anything that could incriminate them in an implication of love--or an acknowledgment (in
their own handwriting!) of their own beauty.

The fabric of civilized life is interwoven with blackmail: even some of the noblest people
do favours for other people who are depended upon not to tell somebody something that the noblest
people have done. Blackmail is born into us all, and our nurses teach us more blackmail by
threatening to tell our parents if we won't do this and that--and our parents threaten to tell
the doctor--and so we learn! Blackmail is part of the daily life of a child. Displeased, his
first resort to get his way with other children is a threat to "tell," but by-and-by his experience
discovers the mutual benefit of honour among blackmailers. Therefore, at eight it is no longer
the ticket to threaten to tell the teacher; and, a little later, threatening to tell any adult
at all is considered something of a breakdown in morals. Notoriously, the code is more liable
to infraction by people of the physically weaker sex, for the very reason, of course, that
their inferiority of muscle so frequently compels such a sin, if they are to have their way.
But for Florence there was now no such temptation. Looking to the demolition of Atwater & Rooter,
an exposure before adults of the results of "Truth" would have been an effect of the sickliest
pallor compared to what might be accomplished by a careful use of the catastrophic Wallie Torbin.

       *       *       *       *       *

On Sunday evening it was her privileged custom to go to the house of fat old Great-Uncle Joseph
and remain until nine o'clock, in chatty companionship with Uncle Joseph and Aunt Carrie, his
wife, and a few other relatives (including Herbert) who were in the habit of dropping in there,
on Sunday evenings. In summer, lemonade and cake were frequently provided; in the autumn, one
still found cake, and perhaps a pitcher of clear new cider: apples were a certainty.

This evening was glorious: there were apples and cider and cake, with walnuts, perfectly cracked,
and a large open-hearted box of candy; for Uncle Joseph and Aunt Carrie had foreseen the coming
of several more Atwaters than usual, to talk over the new affairs of their beautiful relative,
Julia. Seldom have any relative's new affairs been more thoroughly talked over than were Julia's
that evening; though all the time by means of symbols, since it was thought wiser that Herbert
and Florence should not yet be told of Julia's engagement; and Florence's parents were not
present to confess their indiscretion. Julia was referred to as "the traveller"; other makeshifts
were employed with the most knowing caution, and all the while Florence merely ate inscrutably.
The more sincere Herbert was placid; the foods absorbing his attention.

"Well, all I say is, the traveller better enjoy herself on her travels," said Aunt Fanny, finally,
as the subject appeared to be wearing toward exhaustion. "She certainly is in for it when the
voyaging is over and she arrives in the port she sailed from, and has to show her papers. I
agree with the rest of you: she'll have a great deal to answer for, and most of all about the
shortest one. My own opinion is that the shortest one is going to burst like a balloon."

"The shortest one," as the demure Florence had understood from the first, was none other than
her Very Ideal. Now she looked up from the stool where she sat with her back against a pilaster
of the mantelpiece. "Uncle Joseph," she said;--"I was just thinking. What is a person's reason?"

The fat gentleman, rosy with firelight and cider, finished his fifth glass before responding.
"Well, there are persons I never could find any reason for at all. 'A person's reason'? What
do you mean, 'a person's reason,' Florence?"

"I mean: like when somebody says, 'They'll lose their reason,'" she explained. "Has everybody
got a reason, and if they have, what is it, and how do they lose it, and what would they do then?"

"Oh! I see!" he said. "You needn't worry. I suppose since you heard it you've been hunting
all over yourself for your reason and looking to see if there was one hanging out of anybody
else, somewhere. No; it's something you can't see, ordinarily, Florence. Losing your reason
is just another way of saying, 'going crazy'!"

"Oh!" she murmured, and appeared to be disturbed.

At this, Herbert thought proper to offer a witticism for the pleasure of the company.

"You know, Florence," he said, "it only means acting like you most always do." He applauded
himself with a burst of changing laughter ranging from a bullfrog croak to a collapsing soprano;
then he added: "Espeshually when you come around my and Henry's Newspaper Building! You cert'nly
'lose your reason' every time you come around that ole place!"

"Well, course I haf to act like the people that's already there," Florence retorted, not sharply,
but in a musing tone that should have warned him. It was not her wont to use a quiet voice
for repartee. Thinking her humble, he laughed the more raucously.

"Oh, Florence!" he besought her. "Say not so! Say not so!"

"Children, children!" Uncle Joseph remonstrated.

Herbert changed his tone; he became seriously plaintive. "Well, she does act that way, Uncle
Joseph! When she comes around there you'd think we were runnin' a lunatic asylum, the way she
takes on. She hollers and bellers and squalls and squawks. The least little teeny thing she
don't like about the way we run our paper, she comes flappin' over there and goes to screechin'
around you could hear her out at the Poor House Farm!"

"Now, now, Herbert," his Aunt Fanny interposed. "Poor little Florence isn't saying anything
impolite to you--not right now, at any rate. Why don't you be a little sweet to her just for once?"

Her unfortunate expression revolted all the manliness in Herbert's bosom. "Be a little sweet
to her?" he echoed with poignant incredulity, and then in candour made plain how poorly Aunt
Fanny inspired him. "I just exackly as soon be a little sweet to an alligator," he said.

"Oh, oh!" said Aunt Carrie.

"I would!" Herbert insisted. "Or a mosquito. I'd rather, to either of 'em, 'cause anyway they
don't make so much noise. Why, you just ought to hear her," he went on, growing more and more
severe. It would not be because she was not pretty
good, actually had his rest that day ... Bringas spent time and no returned from their astonishment,
which was resolved in defiance as Pez exhausted all topics of conversation, time, heat of Madrid,
the health of all, conspiracies, untouched, or per incident, which she considered most appropriate.
The brevity of the responses and the emphasis it is fanned nervous, were signs of his displeasure.
And Pez, increasingly cold, with a breeze of person than human suffering, continued talking
of indifferent matters with admirable sense, without losing the compass, without saying anything
announced a tentative conscience or virtue in danger. He had become, by grace North of the air
in a male specimen, the model of righteousness and temperance. His resemblance to The Holy
Patriarch Rosalia whim seized more alive than ever, but felt that beauty blonde as the perfection
of the world duller. But he lacked the staff of lilies to happen to be on the card for a penny
trading cards sold on the streets. Rosalia started to repel such restraint, and I was gathering
all his disdain to devote entirely, when the idea of ​​the commitments of the embarked on 9 furiously.
Pez, reading in his face, he said, "Are you pale."

Rosalie did not answer.

I was astounded at his sentence, saying: "Sin, llámote need and I speak the greatest truth
in the world ... They do not need, what a silly woman will not despise all this rabble of men? ".

Fish,
a little more tender, told him that it felt something strange, sad,
perhaps concerns serious.

This indication she considered it as a happy situation to say something. Going to try If Fish was the
same lively and pompous gentleman before, or whether it had changed into a hardened selfish. The
lady, also doing funny feats of reserve, said: "Things mine. What happens to me, who are more interested
than me alone? ".

Slowly my friend down from those heights of virtue that had been perched. Bowed towards her and
spoke of ingratitude plaintively romantic. Rosalia horizons glimpsed of salvation with a weak
light illuminated the darkness of that fateful day 9, and so close. As suddenly called to the door
and entered the small, could not be more of Bringas explicit or not fish, it only took her
time to show one thing: "I wanted much you return. I have to talk ...».

The necking of the children interrupted this pleasant conference, which was so under the plan the
Pipaón. But later, after returning from long paragraph Bringas and he and Fish cast on things
political, Rosalia had occasion to change his friend over a La Salette word secretly, which
he put the check point and left.

Rather sad that happy was the Pipaón all afternoon and night. Her husband warned in her verbal
sobriety bordering on silence, and as usual, made no effort by any correct. In every house is always
preferable to the conciseness of a woman at his loquacity, and Thiers had no great effort to
alter this rule. On the morning of day 8, Rosalie, dressed with sleek simplicity, said goodbye
to her husband. Went to Mass, as evidenced by the devotional pearl caps to take in hand ...
Her husband had to take a little surprising, he was to see the cucurbit
was in danger of death.

"I heard today gave the sacraments" - Brinker said with real regret.

He left after giving its provisions for lunch, on the assumption by some, and Thiers was in
the hands of the barber, because since the disease was not confident enough in his view to shave
himself. At his side was Paquito of Assisi, whom the father threw a reprimand friendly for several
reasons: it was the one that my child can not escape the influence Youth who exercises all expansive idea,
had left the University contaminate the evil of sympathy for the so-called revolution. Among
his classmates waved the banner obscurantism, but a little thought here was in its reserves,
condescension, weaknesses ...; in short, that the angel was somewhat touched the virus ... "The
revolutionary virus - repeated Bringas two or three times while he
shaved - and it is important that you cure the root.

And You see, you'll see which weapon if he wins this rabble. The horrors of the French Revolution
sketches will be compared to the tragedies that we have here. "

Another trick of bringing badly burned lad D. Francisco, and was beginning to damage his spirit
the curse of an evil doctrine entitled Krausist. Bringas had heard it described as smelling a wise
chaplain friend.

Some time ago, was with Paquito of Assisi a tangled gibberish of self, not me, the other and
beyond, they drove each other crazy the good D. Francisco. This said, in a nutshell, if not
missing his head those philosophies, we would remove from the university and put the tacky in
a store.

No deviation of the morning, and tired of waiting for Rosalia, lunch. The woman came to that
of one, a little breathless. "Very sick poor" - said ahead of her husband, already His mouth
was open for questions by the sister of Cucurbits. And he locked himself in the Camon to remove
the veil and change of clothing. In the afternoon they all went out to ride with the dirty
laundry christening, in correct formation, very compuestitos small, mom and dad so serious and
showed up as usual. Well, I better say never, one time, had the Pipaón of Barca had her husband
by more respectable than that day ... We watched and listened to him with some worship and
will be assessed extremely inferior to him, but so inferior that
very nearly not worth fixing his eyes on him.

Was stunned and distracted on the ride, and in his home, night, more. His spirit, away from the
simple domestic scenes and how much there was done and said, lived in different region, attentive
to things quite remote and unknown for others. "Wow you're in the clouds tonight - Bringas
said something angrily - noting the third or fourth of their mistakes.

"

And she dared not complaining. Then, as the father and the children played the lottery, she
shut himself in the Carrion, and there, sitting, arms crossed, chin on chest, surrendered to
the meditations that wanted to devour their understanding as the flame devours dry edge.

XLIV

"What brought face! ... Although I pretended, I knew that he had known bad ... This trip has me
ruined ... Girls seemed to them all what they saw in Bayonne ... I spent the rent one year ...
Despite this, we will see, I'll fix ... I seek ... Oh, Lady! Sold and not charge our price is
tremendous thing ... But no, he will make an effort not to be me
in an awkward and ridiculous situation ... (Exhaling three consecutive
sighs, which were a rosary of grief.) Tomorrow we'll see.

Tomorrow at ten receive the answer short of what you can do ... Oh, he burst himself ridiculous
before ... If do not have to call it. It is your duty. Is not I'm worth more, much more? Do
not give him a treasure for a pittance? What is it compared to the fortunes that have used
other? Shame da name so much in front of a gentleman ... I have in my mouth all the bitterness
that mouth may feel ...».

In painful uncertainty spent the night, waking up every moment the sting of his idea Hot and
sharp. The body slept and watched the idea. The wife could not look without envy sweet peace
of conscience that lay beside him.

D. Sleeping Francisco was like of a porter who has been very busy during the day and closing
eyes also takes away all the burdens of the spirit. Lucky man! He had no need and was happy
with her denim dress. He saw his tie beyond cheesy and cheap, those shopkeepers who sell outdoor installed
at the corner of the post office. "Tell me your needs and tell you if you are honest or not.
" This saying it came to Rosalia brain but she knew it to be a teacher in popular philosophy.

"For the saints, what were they? - He said -; people who are not cared
nothing out facts about the street eyesores.

Certainly not I have this indifference, which is the basis of virtue. Say what you will, the
saint was born. This merit is not acquired with the will, none can own it if you have not brought
out of this world. My husband was born to cheesy and die in the odor of sanctity. " This does
not mean that he envied, for I was seeing the troubles it brings and how expensive it costs
to not wanting to be corny. The poor girl was surrounded by dangers, full of anxieties and regrets,
while her husband slept beside quiet abyss.

I slept as if far away the shame that was really so close.

And although like the vain sophistries appease his conscience, the conscience would not let anyone
fool and stirred uneasily. His appearance, horribly accuser could not be seen by Rosalie while this
will not be destroyed before your eyes, first, the conflict of day 9, whose solution required
big sacrifices, not excepting that of the honor, and second, some cobwebs silk that enveloped
his face, as in the feverish anxiety of that night, all their ideas, remorse them, passed,
like light through a sieve, to imagine through a confusing perendengues galas and autumn.

In the morning, when he brought the chocolate to Bringas, found him cheerful and talkative, humming songs.
She, however, is considerably unnerving. Later, Candida, who was in charge to bring Sobrino house
purchases, not the tooth fairy if suspected, you took several things. As the lady was absently,
considering the dangers of that day that had no spirit more than to see the organza and chenille
for a few minutes, and I kept all headlong into one of the comfortable
... At eleven o'clock I expected receive Fish.

About half past ten Bringas invariably going to his office. That day was less timely than usual,
and over lunch, everyone rejoice with him to wake up faded, Paquito because you read some papers
ran clandestine Madrid, threatening Queen and ensuring the proximity of his fall. "If you bring
me back here these disgusting - said Thiers snorting with anger - I take away from the University
of tacky and I put in a store Toledo Street. "

It was chirping, and soon received the role Rosalia so eagerly awaited. "Bulking bit - he thought, with
the soul on a string, getting in the Carrion to open the envelope alone, because Candida was around
each eye like an arrow -. Bit bulky - repeated drawing of envelope paper -; here is not anything.
" And indeed, it was only a letter, written in clean and correct letter of the Director of Finance.
The anger that pervaded the soul of seeing Pipaón that the letter did not bring it along with
other papers, prevented him from reading. In his hand was shaking The statement, written by
three facets. Leapfrog read, looking for strict clauses and positive. Within seconds covered the
happy letter ... Each sentence she tore the guts as if the words were gaffs ... "I was much troubled,
lonely, not being able to please that day ...».

'Eral impossible in every way ...». "He had found the house in a delay unfortunate, with a heavy
backlog of accounts payable ...». "His situation was very distressing and other than the outside
seemed ...». "He declared frankly, within the trust, all the pomp of her house was just looking
...». "Despite this, he had come presurosísimo the aid of his friend, if you happened to be
in that day did not have a maturity ...». unavoidable "But later ...».

Rosalie could not finish reading. Anger, shame they stopped ... Tore up the letter and crumpled
pieces. If I could do the same for the vile! ... Yes, it was a vile, well he had told her that
it was a matter of honor and peace of home ... What Men!

She had figure had the illusion of some knightly proportions ... What error and what disappointment!
And that had been degraded as debased! Someone gave deserved slapped and her husband threw home
for this honest ... Big shame was sold, but be for nothing ...! To achieve this, tears of anger and
pain running down her cheeks. They were the first to shed after marriage, since it had dumped
when their children had any serious illness were tears of another kind.

And worst of all was that was lost ... If at three in the afternoon
there entered the house of Inquisitor, money in hand ... The so would
wait until three o'clock, until three, not a minute more.

Thinking this, Rosalie was a volcano on his head. And who, Virgen del Carmen, again his eyes,
to whom? ... Not to commend all the saints and all the Virgin was
serenity and spirit.

It could not be more than despair ... But when given to it, without
defense, a ray of hope crossed the stormy atmosphere of a brain ...
Refuge ...

Yes, Torres said, just days before had taken refuge at
the home of ten thousand Trujillo real sister sent him to put the
establishment.

XLV

Choking time, the situation did not allow waiting. Without pausing to ponder the desirability
of that step, he ventured to give it. It was twelve. "Before I discovered Bringas - said getting
blanket hastily - I prefer to go through, I prefer to lower myself to ask this favor a ...».

Refugio
lived on the streets of Embroiderers, facing the plaza of San Ginés, in a house good looks. Rosalia
surprised decent appearance of the ladder. I thought finding a filthy and lousy neighborhood input,
and it was quite the opposite. The neighborhood could not be respectable in a tent of bronze
objects for worship church, on the mezzanine a great store of cloth of Bejar, with copper plate
on the bulkhead, in the main drafting of a religious newspaper. This gave great encouragement
Rosalia, and well I needed the unhappy, for he was as to the slaughter, considering what happened
that the degraded.

"What can need! - thought to ring the bell of the second -. And who I had to say I would drink this
water. Now if only I take a short shrift, to be greater my shame and my full punishment. "

Refugio it opened the door and was surprised to see her.

Rosalia turbadísima, hesitated between laughter and seriousness, not knowing whether to apply to
the Sanchez family treatment or treatment Fine.

The case was very strange and sociability contained a problem difficult to resolve. From the
door to the room there was only half-words, short sentences, monosyllables.

"Come in here - Shelter said Mrs. Bringas telling the cabinet door -. Celestina, help me to vacate
these seats. "

The answering to the name of Celestina debla to be raised. So thought our friend in the first
time, but then had to rectify this trial. Celestina's appearance was as strange as Shelter,
and yet so similar to this, could not be easily tell which of the
two was the lady.

"I probably - thought sitting in the Bringas the first chair to be vacated - is that neither
is it. "

The Sanchez had her beautiful hair in disorder. He had not even combed.
Covered his bust light blouse, so not closed, he taught part of the
breast Ubérrimo. Dragging shoes of clips put on sandals, and heels
were on the floor marking tile fed a loud sound of footsteps.

"I
was going to throw the gown - said Refugio, after stirring in a pile
of clothes was on the couch - but as you can be trusted ...».

- Yes,
daughter, do not bother - Bringas said of affirming the need to be
nice -. That's the only reason I'd
be willing to say we better leave the plank down and let her in, if she comes around here like
she's liable to."

"Well," said Herbert. "I'm willing. I don't want to get in trouble with the family."

And they mounted the stairs to their editorial, reportorial, and printing rooms; and began
to work in a manner not only preoccupied but apprehensive. At intervals they would give each
other a furtive glance, and then seem to reflect upon their fathers' and mothers' wishes and
the troublous state of the times. Florence did not keep them waiting long, however.

She might have been easier to bear had her manner of arrival been less assured. She romped
up the stairs, came skipping across the old floor, swinging her hat by a ribbon, flung open
the gate in the sacred railing, and, flouncing into the principal chair, immodestly placed
her feet on the table in front of that chair. Additionally, such was her lively humour, she
affected to light and smoke the stub of a lead pencil. "Well, men," she said heartily, "I don't
want to see any loafin' around here, men. I expect I'll have a pretty good newspaper this week;
yes, sir, a pretty good newspaper, and I guess you men got to jump around a good deal to do
everything I think of, or else maybe I guess I'll have to turn you off. I don't want to haf
to do that, men."

The blackmailed partners made no reply, on account of an inability that was perfect for the
moment. They stared at her helplessly, though not kindly; for in their expressions the conflict
between desire and policy was almost staringly vivid. And such was their preoccupation, each
with the bitterness of his own case, that neither wondered at the other's strange complaisance.

Florence made it clear to them that henceforth she was the editor of The North End Daily Oriole.
(She said she had decided not to change the name.) She informed them that they were to be her
printers; she did not care to get all inky and nasty herself, she said. Because of fixed D. Manuel could use the bathroom
more clever, more chivalrous and more liberal than it was before, and it was a lot. The lady met
his steps as he approached the door, and entered an earthquake ... then a shame ... Courage, woman!
