"What reason!" he repeated; "you were too rich a prize for them to allow Foster to risk losing
any part of his claim upon you, if he found you. You and all you had were his property on certain
defined conditions. You do not understand our marriage laws; it is as well for you not to understand
them. Mrs. Foster gave up to me to-day all his papers, and the letters and credentials from
your trustees in Melbourne to your bankers here. There will be very little trouble for you
now. Thank God! all your life lies clear and fair before you."

I had still many questions to ask, but my lips trembled so much that I could not speak readily.
He was himself silent, probably because he also had so much to say. All the others were sitting
a little apart from us at a chess-table, where Dr. Senior and Miss Carey were playing, while
Dr. John sat by holding Minima in his arm, though she was gazing wistfully across to Martin and me.

"You are tired, Olivia," said Martin, after a time, "tired and sad. Your eyes are full of tears.
I must be your doctor again for this evening, and send you to bed at once. It is eleven o'clock
already; but these people will sit up till after midnight. You need not say good-night to them.--Minima,
come here."

She did not wait for a second word, or a louder summons; but she slipped under Dr. John's arm,
and rushed across to us, being caught by Martin before she could throw herself upon me. He
sat still, talking to her for a few minutes, and listening to her account of our journey, and
how frightened we were at the grandeur about us. His face lit up with a smile as his eyes fell
upon me, as if for the first time he noticed how out of keeping I was with the place. Then
he led us quietly away, and up-stairs to my bedroom-door.

"Good-night, Olivia," he said; "sleep soundly, both of you, for you are at home. I will send
one of the maids up to you."

"No, no," I cried hastily, "they despise us already."

"Ah!" he said, "to-night you are the Olivia I knew first, in Sark. In a week's time I shall
find you a fine lady."

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-SIXTH.

SEEING SOCIETY.

Whether or no I was transformed into a finer lady than Martin anticipated, I could not tell,
but certainly after that first evening he held himself aloof from me. I soon learned to laugh
at the dismay which had filled me upon my entrance into my new sphere. It would have been difficult
to resist the cordiality with which I was adopted into the household. Dr. Senior treated me
as his daughter; Dr. John was as much at home with me as if I had been his sister. We often
rode together, for I was always fond of riding as a child, and he was a thorough horseman.
He said Martin could ride better than himself; but Martin never asked me to go out with him.

Minima, too, became perfectly reconciled to her new position; though for a time she was anxious
lest we were spending our riches too lavishly. I heard her one day soundly rating Dr. John,
who seldom came to his father's house without bringing some trinket, or bouquet, or toy, for
one or other of us.

"You are wasting all your money," she said, with that anxious little pucker of her eyebrows,
which was gradually being smoothed away altogether, "you're just like the boys after the holidays.
They would buy lots of things every time the cake-woman came--and she came every day--till
they'd spent all their money. You can't always have cakes, you know, and then you'll miss them."

"But I shall have cakes always." answered Dr. John.

"Nobody has them always," she said, in an authoritative tone, "and you won't like being poor.
We were so poor we daren't buy as much as we could eat; and our boots wore out at the toes.
You like to have nice boots, and gloves, and things, so you must learn to take care of your
money, and not waste it like this."

"I'm not wasting my money, little woman," he replied, "when I buy pretty things for you and
Olivia."

"Why doesn't Dr. Martin do it then?" she asked; "he never spends his money in that sort of
way. Why doesn't he give auntie as many things as you do?"

Martin had been listening to Minima's rebukes with a smile upon his face; but now it clouded
a little, and I knew he glanced across to me. I appeared deeply absorbed in the book I held
in my hand, and he did not see that I was listening and watching attentively.

"Minima," he said, in a low tone, as if he did not care that even she should hear, "I gave
her all I had worth giving when I saw her first."

"That's just how it will be with you, Dr. John," exclaimed Minima, triumphantly, "you'll give
us every thing you have, and then you'll have nothing left for yourself."

But still, unless Martin had taken back what he gave to me so long ago, his conduct was very
mysterious to me. His great, muscular chest heaved on
the bed, hitching sometimes, dropping other. His trembling hands clenched instinctively, taking care to pull
at the clothes, an impulse now that their sudden shock was ebbing.

Neither had I very much time for brooding over any subject, for guests began to frequent the
house, which became much gayer, Dr. Senior said, now there was a young hostess in it. The quiet
evenings of autumn and winter were gone, and instead of them our engagements accumulated on
our hands, until I very rarely met Martin except at some entertainment, where we were surrounded
by strangers. Martin was certainly at a disadvantage among a crowd of mere acquaintances, where
Dr. John was quite at home. He was not as handsome, and he did not possess the same ease and
animation. So he was a little apt to get into corners with Dr. Senior's scientific friends,
and to be somewhat awkward and dull if he were forced into gayer society. Dr. John called him glum.

But he was not glum; I resented that, till Dr. John begged my pardon. Martin did not smile
as quickly as Dr. John, he was not forever ready with a simper, but when he did smile it had
ten times more expression. I liked to watch for it, for the light that came into his eyes now
and then, breaking through his gravity as the sun breaks through the clouds on a dull day.

Perhaps he thought I liked to be free. Yes, free from tyranny, but not free from love. It is
a poor thing to have no one's love encircling you, a poor freedom that. A little clew came
to my hand one day, the other end of which might lead me to the secret of Martin's reserve
and gloom. He and Dr. Senior were talking together, as they paced to and fro about the lawn,
coming up the walk from the river-side to the house, and then back again. I was seated just
within the drawing-room window, which was open. They knew I was there, but they did not guess
how keen my hearing was for any thing that Martin said. It was only a word or two here and
there that I caught.

"If you were not in the way," said Dr. Senior, "John would have a good chance, and there is
no one in the world I would sooner welcome as a daughter."

"They are like one another," answered Martin; "have you never seen it?"

What more they said I did not hear, but it seemed a little clearer to me after that why Martin
kept aloof from me, and left me to ride, and talk, and laugh with his friend Jack. Why, they
did not know that I was happier silent beside Martin, than laughing most merrily with Dr. John.
So little did they understand me!

Just before Lent, which was a busy season with him, Monsieur Laurentie paid us his promised
visit, and brought us news from Ville-en-bois. The money that had been lying in the bank, which
I could not touch, whatever my necessities were, had accumulated to more than three thousand
pounds, and out of this sum were to come the funds for making Ville-en-bois the best-drained
parish in Normandy. Nothing could exceed Monsieur Laurentie's happiness in choosing a design
for a village fountain, and in examining plans for a village hospital. For, in case any serious
illness should break out again among them, a simple little hospital was to be built upon the
brow of the hill, where the wind sweeps across leagues of meadow-land and heather.

"I am too happy, madame," said the curé; "my people will die no more of fever, and we will
teach them many English ways. When will you come again, and see what you have done for us?"

"I will come in the autumn," I answered.

"And you will come alone?" he continued.

"Yes, quite alone," I answered, "or with Minima only."

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-SEVENTH.

BREAKING THE ICE.

Yet while I told Monsieur Laurentie seriously that I should go alone to Ville-en-bois in the
autumn, I did not altogether believe it. We often speak in half-falsehoods, even to ourselves.

Dr. Senior's lawn, in which he takes great pride, slopes gently down to the river, and ends
with a stone parapet, over which it is exceedingly pleasant to lean, and watch idly the flowing
of the water, which seems to loiter almost reluctantly before passing on to Westminster, and
the wharves and docks of the city. On the opposite bank grows a cluster of cedars, with rich,
dark-green branches, showing nearly black against the pale blue of the sky. In our own lawn
there stand three fine elms, a colony for song-birds, under which the turf is carefully kept
as smooth and soft as velvet; and seats are set beneath their shadow, where one can linger
for hours, seeing the steamers and pleasure-boats passing to and fro, and catching now and
then a burst of music or laughter, softened a little by the distance. My childhood had trained
me to be fond of living out-of-doors; and, when the spring came, I spent most of my days under
these elm-trees, in the fitful sunshine and showers of an English April and May, such as I
had never known before.

From one of these trees I could see very well any one who went in or out through the gate.
But it was not often that I cared to sit there, for Martin came only in an evening, when his
day's work was done, and even then his coming was an uncertainty. Getting into the rifts that may exist in a marriage
is very dangerous. If anyone to interfere in your affairs is not to me, but Mom ... But I've
always heard that in every marriage there are fights and disagreements, especially in the beginning, as
the characters do not conform ... All of this happens. While not affecting the merits, while
the hearts are disengaged, Brawls minor marriage are well ... And here there is no fear of it,
fortunately ... It was such a day as the one in Sark, two years ago,
when I slipped from the cliffs, and Tardif was obliged to go across to Guernsey to fetch a
doctor for me. I wondered if Martin ever thought of it on such a day as this. But men do not
remember little things like these as women do.

I heard the click of the gate at last, and, looking round the great trunk of the tree, I saw
them come in together, Dr. John and Martin. He had kept his promise then! Minima was gone out
somewhere with Dr. Senior, or she would have run to meet them, and so brought them to the place
where I was half-hidden.

However, they might see my dress if they chose. They ought to see it. I was not going to stand
up and show myself. If they were anxious to find me, and come to me, it was quite simple enough.

But my heart sank when Martin marched straight on, and entered the house alone, while Dr. John
came as direct as an arrow toward me. They knew I was there, then! Yet Martin avoided me, and
left his friend to chatter and laugh the time away. I was in no mood for laughing; I could
rather have wept bitter tears of vexation and disappointment. But Dr. John was near enough
now for me to discern a singular gravity upon his usually gay face.

"Is there any thing the matter?" I exclaimed, starting to my feet and hastening to meet him.
He led me back again silently to my seat, and sat down beside me, still in silence. Strange
conduct in Dr. John!

"Tell me what is the matter," I said, not doubting now that there was some trouble at hand.
Dr. John's face flushed, and he threw his hat down on the grass, and pushed his hair back from
his forehead. Then he laid his hand upon mine, for a moment only.

"Olivia," he said, very seriously, "do you love me?"

The question came upon me like a shock from a galvanic battery. He and I had been very frank
and friendly together; a pleasant friendship, which had seemed to me as safe as that of a brother.
Besides, he knew all that Martin had done and borne for my sake. With my disappointment there
was mingled a feeling of indignation against his treachery toward his friend. I sat watching
the glistening of the water through the pillars of the parapet till my eyes were dazzled.

"I scarcely understand what you say," I answered, after a long pause; "you know I care for
you all. If you mean, do I love you as I love your father and Monsieur Laurentie, why, yes, I do."

"Very good, Olivia," he said.

That was so odd of him, that I turned and looked steadily into his face. It was not half as
grave as before, and there was a twinkle in his eyes as if another half minute would make him
as gay and light-hearted as ever.

"Whatever did you come and ask me such a question for?" I inquired, rather pettishly.

"Was there any harm in it?" he rejoined.

"Yes, there was harm in it," I answered; "it has made me very uncomfortable. I thought you
were going out of your mind. If you meant nothing but to make me say I liked you, you should
have expressed yourself differently. Of course, I love you all, and all alike."

"Very good," he said again.

I felt so angry that I was about to get up, and go away to my own room; but he caught my dress,
and implored me to stay a little longer.

"I'll make a clean breast of it," he said; "I promised that dear old dolt Martin to come straight
to you, and ask you if you loved me, in so many words. Well, I've kept my promise; and now
I'll go and tell him you say you love us all, and all alike."

"No," I answered, "you shall not go and tell him that. What could put it into Dr. Martin's
head that I was in love with you?"

"Why shouldn't you be in love with me?" retorted Dr. John; "Martin assures me that I am much
handsomer than he is--a more eligible parti in every respect. I suppose I shall have an income,
apart from our practice, at least ten times larger than his. I am much more sought after generally;
one cannot help seeing that. Why should you not be in love with me?"

I did not deign to reply to him, and Jack leaned forward a little to look into my face.

"Olivia," he continued, "that is part of what Martin says. We have just been speaking of you
as we came down to Fulham--never before. He maintains he is bound in honor to leave you as
free as possible to make your choice, not merely between us, but from the number of fellows
who have found their way down here, since you came. You made one fatal mistake, he says, through
your complete ignorance of the world; and it is his duty to take care that you do not make
a second mistake, through any gratitude you might feel toward him. He would not be satisfied
with gratitude. Besides, he has discovered that he is not so great a prize as he fancied, as
long as he lived in Guernsey; and you are a richer prize than you seemed to be then. With your
fortune you ought to make a much better match than with a young physician, who has to push
his way among a host of competitors. Lastly, Martin said, for I'm merely repeating his own
arguments to you: 'Do you think I can put her happiness and mine into a balance, and coolly
calculate which has the greater weight? If I had to choose for her, I should not hesitate between
you and me.' Now I have told you the sum of our conversation, Olivia."

Every word Dr. John had spoken had thrown clearer light upon Martin's conduct. He had been
afraid I should feel myself bound to him; and the very fact that he had once told me he loved
me, had made it more difficult to him to say so a second time. He would not have any love from
me as a duty. If I did not love him fully, with my whole heart, choosing him after knowing
others with whom I could compare him, he would not receive any lesser gift from me.

"What will you do, my dear Olivia?" asked Dr. John.

"What can I do?" I said.

"Go to him," he urged; "he is alone. I saw him a moment ago, looking out at us from the drawing-room
window. The old fellow is making up his mind to see you and me happy together, and to conceal
his own sorrow. God bless him! Olivia, my dear girl, go to him."

"O Jack!" I cried, "I cannot."

"I don't see why you cannot," he answered, gayly. "You are trembling, and your face goes from
white to red, and then white again; but you have not lost the use of your limbs, or your tongue.
If you take my arm, it will not be very difficult to cross the lawn. Come; he is the best fellow
living, and worth walking a dozen yards for."

Jack drew my hand through his arm, and led me across the smooth lawn. We caught a glimpse of
Martin looking out at us; but he turned away in an instant, and I could not see the expression
of his face. Would he think we were coming to tell him that he had wasted all his love upon
a girl not worthy of a tenth part of it?

The glass doors, which opened upon the lawn, had been thrown back all day, and we could see
distinctly into the room. Martin was standing at the other end of it, apparently absorbed in
examining a painting, which he must have seen a thousand times. The doors creaked a little
as I passed through them, but he did not turn round. Jack gave my hand a parting squeeze, and
left me there in the open doorway, scarcely knowing whether to go on, and speak to Martin,
or run away to my room, and leave him to take his own time.

I believe I should have run away, but I heard Minima's voice behind me, calling shrilly to
Dr. John, and I could not bear to face him again. Taking my courage in both hands, I stepped
quickly across the floor, for if I had hesitated longer my heart would have failed me. Scarcely
a moment had passed since Jack left me, and Martin had not turned his head, yet it seemed an age.

"Martin," I whispered, as I stood close behind him, "how could you be so foolish as to send
Dr. John to me?"

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-EIGHTH.

PALMY DAYS.

We were married as soon as the season was over, when Martin's fashionable patients were all
going away from town. Ours was a very quiet wedding, for I had no friends on my side, and Martin's
cousin Julia could not come, for she had a baby not a month old, and Captain Carey could not
leave them. Johanna Carey and Minima were my bridesmaids, and Jack was Martin's groomsman.

On our way home from Switzerland, in the early autumn, we went down from Paris to Falaise,
and through Noireau to Ville-en-bois. From Falaise every part of the road was full of associations
to me. This was the long, weary journey which Minima and I had taken, alone, in a dark November
night; and here were the narrow and dirty streets of Noireau, which we had so often trodden,
cold, and hungry, and friendless. Martin said little about it, but I knew by his face, and
by the tender care he lavished upon me, that his mind was as full of it as mine was.

There was no reason for us to stay even a day in Noireau, and we hurried through it on our
way to Ville-en-bois. This road was still more memorable to me, for we had traversed it on foot.

"See, Martin!" I cried, "there is the trunk of the tree still, where Minima and I sat down
to rest. I am glad the tree is there yet. If we were not in a hurry, you and I would sit there
now; it is so lonely and still, and scarcely a creature passes this way. It is delicious to
be lonely sometimes. How foot-sore and famished we were, walking along this rough part of the
road! Martin, I almost wish our little Minima were with us. There is the common! If you will
look steadily, you can just see the top of the cross, against the black line of fir-trees,
on the far side."

I was getting so excited that I could speak no longer; but Martin held my hand in his, and
I clasped it more and more tightly as we drew nearer to the cross, where Minima and I had sat
down at the foot, forlorn and lost, in the dark shadows of the coming night. Was it possible
that I was the same Olivia? XII.--The Four Regions--General topo-hydrographic idea.--The city of Lucerna.--Oddities--Social contrast--General
conditions of the Lucerna region.--The lake of the Four Regions.--Navigation and interior aspects.--Stories
of the Independence. Monsieur Laurentie appeared in the foreground of the multitude, bareheaded, long
before we reached the spot.

"O Martin!" I said, "let us get out, and send the carriage back, and walk up with them to the
village."

"And my wife's luggage?" he answered, "and all the toys and presents she has brought from Paris?"

It was true that the carriage was inconveniently full of parcels, for I do not think that I
had forgotten one of Monsieur Laurentie's people. But it would not be possible to ride among
them, while they were walking.

"Every man will carry something," I said. "Martin, I must get out."

It was Monsieur Laurentie who opened the carriage-door for me; but the people did not give
him time for a ceremonious salutation. They thronged about us with vivats as hearty as an English
hurrah.

"All the world is here to meet us, monsieur," I said.

"Madame, I have also the honor of presenting to you two strangers from England," answered Monsieur
Laurentie, while the people fell back to make way for them. Jack and Minima! both wild with
delight. We learned afterward, as we marched up the valley to Ville-en-bois, that Dr. Senior
had taken Jack's place in Brook Street, and insisted upon him and Minima giving us this surprise.
Our procession, headed by the drum, the fife, and the violin, passed through the village street,
from every window of which a little flag fluttered gayly, and stopped before the presbytery,
where Monsieur Laurentie dismissed it, after a last vivat.

The next stage of our homeward journey was made in Monsieur Laurentie's char à bancs, from
Ville-en-bois to Granville--Jack and Minima had returned direct to England, but we were to
visit Guernsey on the way. Captain Carey and Julia made it a point that we should go to see
them, and their baby, before settling down in our London home. Martin was welcomed with almost
as much enthusiasm in St. Peter-Port as I had been in little Ville-en-bois.

From our room in Captain Carey's house I could look at Sark lying along the sea, with a belt
of foam encircling it. At times, early in the morning, or when the sunset light fell upon it,
I could distinguish the old windmill, and the church breaking the level line of the summit;
and I could even see the brow of the knoll behind Tardifs cottage. But day after day the sea
between us was rough, and the westerly breeze blew across the Atlantic, driving the waves before
it. There was no steamer going across, and Captain Carey's yacht could not brave the winds.
I began to be afraid that Martin and I would not visit the place, which of all others in this
half of the world was dearest to me.

