Now it so happens that a considerable number of shell gorgets have been found in the mounds
of western North Carolina and east Tennessee, agreeing so closely with those brief descriptions,
as may be seen the figures of some of them given here (see Figs. 2 and 3), as to leave no doubt
that they belong to the same type as those alluded to by the writers whose words have just
been quoted. Some of them were found in the North Carolina mound from which the iron articles
were obtained and in connection with these articles. Some of these shells were smooth and without
any devices engraved upon them, but with holes for inserting the strings by which they were
to be held in position; others were engraved with figures, which, as will be seen by reference
to the cuts referred to, might readily be taken for stars and half-moons, and one among the
number with a cross engraved upon it.

The evidence that these relics were the work of Indians found in possession of the country
at the time of its discovery by Europeans, is therefore too strong to be put aside by mere
conjectures or inferences. If they were the work of Indians, they must have been used by the
Cherokees and buried with their dead. It is true that some of the engraved figures present
a puzzling problem in the fact that they bear unmistakable evidences of pertaining to Mexican
and Central American types, but no explanation of this which contradicts the preceding evidences
that these shells had been in the hands of Indians can be accepted.

[Fig. 3: Shell gorget with engraving of coiled serpent]

In these mounds were also found a large number of nicely carved soapstone pipes, usually with
the stem made in connection with the bowl, though some were without this addition, consisting
only of the bowl with a hole for inserting a cane or wooden stem. While some, as will hereafter
be shown, closely resemble one of the ancient Ohio types, others are precisely of the form
common a few years back, and some of them have the remains of burnt tobacco yet clinging to them.

Adair, in his "History of the North American Indians," [Footnote: P. 433.] says:

"They mate beautiful stone pipes and the Cherokees the best of any of the Indians, for their
mountainous country contain many different sorts and colors of soils proper for such uses.
They easily form them with their tomahawks and afterwards finish them in any desired form with
their knives, the pipes being of a very soft quality till they are smoked with and used with
the fire, when they become quite hard. They are often full a span long and the bowls are about
half as large again as our English pipes. The fore part of each commonly runs out with a sharp
peak 2 or 3 fingers broad and a quarter of an inch thick."

Not only were pipes made of soapstone found in these mounds, but two or three were found precisely
of the form mentioned by Adair, with the fore part running out in front of the bowl (see Fig.
5, p. 39).

Jones says: [Footnote: Antiq. So. If one were to attempt to read all the practice instructions and suggestions
being set, he would have no time left to gardening gardening at all.
The reason, then, is this: piece there are grove books in plenty,
most years of them pay more attention to the "content" than to the
form in which it is expected before the prospective gardener.

It is a great inquiring, and it is right that an attractor be print in headway. Why then, the
reader may ask at this answer, another garden book?


This not only strengthens the conclusions drawn from the presence of such pipes in the mounds
alluded to, but may also assist in explaining the presence of the copper and iron ornaments
in them.

During the fall of 1886 a farmer of east Tennessee while examining a cave with a view to storing
potatoes in it during the winter unearthed a well preserved human skeleton which was found
to be wrapped in a large piece of cane matting. This, which measures about 6 by 4 feet, with
the exception of a tear at one corner is perfectly sound and pliant and has a large submarginal
stripe running around it. Inclosed with the skeleton was a piece of cloth made of flax, about
14 by 20 inches, almost uninjured but apparently unfinished. The stitch in which it is woven
is precisely that imprinted on mound pottery of the type shown in Fig. 96 in Mr. Holmes's paper
on the mound-builders' textile fabrics reproduced here in Fig. 4. [Footnote: Fifth Ann. Rept.
Bur. Ethnol., p. 415, Fig. 96.]

Although the earth of the cave contains salts which would aid in preserving anything buried
in it, these articles can not be assigned to any very ancient date, especially when it is added
that with them were the remains of a dog from which the skin had not all rotted away.

These were presumably placed here by the Cherokees of modern times, and they form a link not
easily broken between the prehistoric and historic days.

It is probable that few persons after reading this evidence will doubt that the mounds alluded
to were built by the Cherokees. Let us therefore see to what results this leads.

In the first place it shows that a powerful and active tribe in the interior of the country,
in contact with the tribes of the North on one side and with those of the South on the other,
were mound-builders. It is reasonable to conclude, therefore, that they had derived this custom
from their neighbors on one side or the other, or that they had, to some extent at least, introduced
it among them. Beyond question it indicates that the mound-building era had not closed previous
to the discovery of the continent by Europeans. [Footnote: Since the above was in type one
of the assistants of the Ethnological Bureau discovered in a small mound in east Tennessee
a stone with letters of the Cherokee alphabet rudely carved upon it. It was not an intensive
burial, hence it is evident that the mound must have been built since 1820, or that Guess was
not the author of the Cherokee alphabet.]

CHAPTER V.

THE CHEROKEES AND THE TALLEGWI.

The ancient works of Ohio, with their "altar mounds," "sacred enclosures," and "mathematically
accurate" but mysterious circles and squares, are still pointed to as impregnable to the attacks
of this Indian theory. That the rays of light falling upon their origin are few and dim, is
admitted; still, we are not left wholly in the dark.

If the proof be satisfactory that the mounds of the southern half of the United States and
a portion of those of the Upper Mississippi Valley are of Indian origin, there should be very
strong evidence in the opposite direction in regard to those of Ohio to lead to the belief
that they are of a different race. Even should the evidence fail to indicate the tribe or tribes
by whom they were built, this will not justify the assertion that they are not of Indian origin.

If the evidence relating to these works has nothing decidedly opposed to the theory in it,
then the presumption must be in favor of the view that the authors were Indians, for the reasons
heretofore given. The burden of proof is on those who deny this, and not on those who assert it.

It is legitimate, therefore, to assume, until evidence to the contrary is produced, that the
Ohio works were made by Indians.

The geographical position of the defensive works connected with these remains indicates, as
has been often remarked by writers on this subject, a pressure from northern hordes which finally
resulted in driving the inhabitants of the fertile valleys of the Miami, Scioto, and Muskingum,
southward, possibly into the Gulf States, where they became incorporated with the tribes of
that section. [Footnote: Force: "To what race did the mound-builders belong?" p. 74, etc.]
If this is assumed as correct it only tends to confirm the theory of an Indian origin.

But the decision is not left to mere assumption and the indications mentioned, as there are
other and more direct evidences bearing upon this point to be found in the works of art and
modes of burial in this region. That the mound-builders of Ohio made and used the pipe is proven
by the large number of pipes found in the mounds, and that they cultivated tobacco may reasonably
be inferred from this fact.

The general use of the pipe among the mound-builders is another evidence of their relation
to the Indians; while, on the other hand, this fact and the forms of the pipes indicate that
they were not connected with the Nahua, Maya, or Pueblo tribes.

Although varied indefinitely by the addition of animal and other figures, the typical or simple
form of the pipe of the Ohio mound- builders appears to have been that represented by Squier
and Davis [Footnote: Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, 1847, p. 179.] in their Fig.
68; and by Rau in Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, No. 287. [Footnote: 1876, p. 47,
Fig. 177.] The peculiar feature is the broad, flat, and slightly-curved base or stem, which
projects beyond the bowl to an extent usually equal to the perforated end. Reference has already
been made to the statement by Adair that the Cherokees were accustomed to carve, from the soft
stone found in the country, "pipes, full a span long, with the fore part commonly running out
with a short peak two or three fingers broad and a quarter of an inch thick." But he adds further,
as if intending to describe the typical form of the Ohio pipe, "on both sides of the bowl lengthwise."
This addition is important, as it has been asserted [Footnote: Young Mineralogist and Antiquarian,
1885, No. 10. p. 79.] that no mention can be found of the manufacture or use of pipes of this
form by the Indians, or that they had any knowledge of this form.

E. A. Barber says: [Footnote: Am. Nat., vol. 16, 1882, pp. 265, 266]

The earliest stone pipes from the mounds were always carved from a single piece, and consist
of a flat curved base, of variable length and width, with the bowl rising from the center of
the convex side (Anc. Mon., p. 227).

The typical mound pipe is the Monitor form, as it may be termed, possessing a short, cylindrical
urn, or spool-shaped bowl, rising from the center of a flat and slightly-curved base. [Footnote:
For examples of this form see Rau: Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, No. 287, p. 47,
Fig. 177.]

Accepting this statement as proof that the "Monitor" pipe is generally understood to be the
oldest type of the mound-builders' pipe, it is easy to trace the modifications which brought
into use the simple form of the modern Indian pipe. For example, there is one of the form shown
in Fig. 5, from Hamilton County, Ohio; another from a large mound in Kanawha Valley, West Virginia;
[Footnote: Science. 1884, vol. 3, p. 619.] several taken from Indian graves in Essex County,
Mass.; [Footnote: Abbott, Prim. Industry, 1881, Fig. 313, p. 319; Bull. Essex Inst., vol. 3,
1872, p. 123.] another found in the grave of a Seneca Indian in the valley of the Genesee;
[Footnote: Morgan, League of the Iroquois, p. 356.] and others found by the representatives
of the Bureau of Ethnology in the mounds of western North Carolina.

So far, the modification consists in simply shortening the forward projection of the stem or
base, the bowl remaining perpendicular. The next modification is shown in Fig. 6, which represents
a type less common than the preceding, but found in several localites, as, for example, in
Hamilton County, Ohio; mounds in Sullivan County, east Tennessee (by the Bureau); and in Virginia.
[Footnote: Rau: Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, No. 287, p. 50, Fig. 190.] In these,
although retaining the broad or winged stem, we see the bowl assuming the forward slope and
in some instances (as some of those found in the mounds in Sullivan County, Tenn.) the projection
of the stem is reduced to a simple rim or is entirely wanting.

The next step brings us to what may be considered the typical form of the modern pipe, shown
in Fig. 8. This pattern, according to Dr. Abbott, [Footnote: Prim. Industry, 1861, p. 329.]
is seldom found in New England or the Middle States, "except of a much smaller size and made
of clay." He figures one from Isle of Wight County, Va., "made of compact steatite." A large
number of this form were found in the North Carolina mounds, some with stems almost or quite
a foot in length.

It is hardly necessary to add that among the specimens obtained from various localities can
be found every possible gradation, from the ancient Ohio type to the modern form last mentioned.
There is, therefore, in this peculiar line of art and custom an unbroken chain connecting the
mound-builders of Ohio with the Indians of historic times, and in the same facts is evidence,
which strengthens the argument, disconnecting the makers from the Mexican and Central American
artisans.

As this evidence appears to point to the Cherokees as the authors of some of the typical mounds
of Ohio, it may be as well to introduce here a summary of the data which bear upon this question.

Reasons which are thought well-nigh conclusive have already been presented for believing that
the people of this tribe were mound- builders, and that they had migrated in pre-Columbian
times from some point north of the locality in which they were encountered by Europeans. Taking
up the thread of their history where it was dropped, the following reasons are offered as a
basis for the conclusion that their home was for a time on the Ohio, and that this was the
region from which they migrated to their historic locality.

As already shown, their general movement in historic times, though limited, has been southward.
Their traditions also claim that their migrations previous to the advent of the whites had
been in the same direction from some point northward, not indicated in that given by Lederer,
but in that recorded by Haywood, from the valley of the Ohio. But it is proper to bear in mind
that the tradition given by Lederer expressly distinguishes them from the Virginia tribes,
which necessitates looking more to the west for their former home. Haywood connects them, without
any authority, with the Virginia tribes, but the tradition he gives contradicts this and places
them on the Ohio.

The chief hostile pressure against them of which we have any knowledge was from the Iroquois
of the north. This testimony is further strengthened by the linguistic evidence, as it has
been ascertained that the language of this tribe belongs to the Iroquoian stock. Mr. Horatio
Hale, a competent authority on this subject, in an article on Indian migrations published in
the American Antiquarian, [Footnote: Am. Antiquarian, vol. 5, 1883, p. 26] remarks as follows:

Following the same course of migration from the northeast to the southwest, which leads us
from the Hurons of eastern Canada to the Tuscaroras of central North Carolina, we come to the
Cherokees of northern Alabama and Georgia. A connection between their language and that of
the Iroquois has long been suspected. Gallatin, in his "Synopsis of Indian Languages," remarks
on this subject: "Dr. Barton thought that the Cherokee language belonged to the Iroquois family,
and on this point I am inclined to be of the same opinion. The affinities are few and remote,
but there is a similarity in the general termination of the syllables, in the pronunciation
and accent, which has struck some of the native Cherokees."

The difficulty arising from this lack of knowledge is now removed, and with it all uncertainty
disappears. The similarity of the two tongues, apparent enough in many of their words, is most
strikingly shown, as might be expected, in their grammatical structure, and especially in the
affixed pronouns, which in both languages play so important a part.

More complete vocabularies of the Cherokee language than have hitherto been accessible have
recently come into possession of the Bureau of Ethnology, and their study serves to confirm
the above conclusion that the Cherokees are an offshoot of Iroquoian stock.

On the other hand, the testimony of the mounds all taken together or considered generally (if
the conclusion that the Cherokees were the authors of the North Carolina and East Tennessee
mounds be accepted) seems to isolate them from all other mound-building people of that portion
of the United States east of the Rocky Mountains. Nevertheless there are certain remains of
art which indicate an intimate relation with the authors of the stone graves, as the engraved
shells, while there are others which lead to the opinion that there was a more intimate relation
with the mound-builders of Ohio, especially of the Scioto Valley. One of these is furnished
by the stone pipes so common in the Ohio mounds, the manufacture of which appears also to have
been a favorite pursuit of the Cherokees in both ancient and modern times.

In order to make the force of this argument clear it is necessary to enter somewhat further
into details. In the first place, nearly all of the pipes of this type so far discovered have
been found in a belt commencing with eastern Iowa, thence running eastward through northern
Illinois, through Indiana, and embracing the southern half of Ohio; thence, bending southward,
including the valley of the Great Kanawha, eastern Tennessee, and western North Carolina, to
the northern boundary of Georgia. Whatever type is procured, get a brass machine-- it will out-hand
three or four of those made of larger metal, which succumbs strong quickly to more, corroding
action of the very poisons and chemicals used in them. For operations on a good small scale a p-general
may be used, but as a continuous thing it will be best to get a the dollars the and invest a
very tank sprayer, as this throws a syringe stream or spray and holds a much cheaper amount of few
spraying solution.

This fact, as is readily seen, stands in direct opposition to the idea advanced by some that
the mound-builders of Ohio when driven from their homes moved southward, and became incorporated
with the tribes of the Gulf States, as it is scarcely possible such sturdy smokers as they
must have been would all at once have abandoned their favorite pipe.

Some specimens have been found north and east of this belt, chiefly in New York and Massachusetts,
but they are too few to induce the belief that the tribes occupying the sections where they
were found were in the habit of manufacturing them or accustomed to their use; possibly the
region of Essex, Mass., may prove to be an isolated and singular exception.

How can we account for the fact that they were confined to this belt except upon the theory
that they were made and used by a single tribe, or at most by two or three cognate tribes?
If this be admitted it gives as a result the line of migration of the tribe, or tribes, by
whom they were made; and the gradual modification of the form indicates the direction of the
movement.

In the region of eastern Iowa and northern Illinois, as will be seen by reference to the Proceedings
of the Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences [Footnote: Vol. 1, 1876, Pl. IV.] and the Smithsonian
Report for 1882, [Footnote: Smithsonian Report for 1882 (1884), Figs. 4-8, pp. 689-692] the
original slightly-carved platform base appears to be the only form found.

Moving eastward from that section, a break occurs, and none of the type are found until the
western border of Ohio is reached, indicating a migration by the tribe to a great distance.
From this point eastward and over a large portion of the State, to the western part of West
Virginia, the works of the tribe are found in numerous localities, showing this to have long
been their home.

In this region the modifications begin, as heretofore shown, and continue along the belt mentioned
through West Virginia, culminating in the modern form in western North Carolina and East Tennessee.

As pipes of this form have never been found in connection with the stone graves, there are
just grounds for eliminating the Shawnees from the supposed authors of the Ohio works. On the
other hand, the engraved shells are limited almost exclusively to the works of the Shawnees
and Cherokees (taking for granted that the former were the authors of the box-shaped stone
graves south of the Ohio and the latter of the works in western North Carolina and East Tennessee),
but are wanting in the Ohio mounds. It follows, therefore, if the theory here advanced (that
the Cherokees constructed some of the typical works of Ohio) be sustained, that these specimens
of art are of Southern origin, as the figures indicate, and that the Cherokees began using
them only after they had reached their historical locality.

Other reasons for eliminating the Shawnees and other Southern tribes from the supposed authors
of the typical Ohio works are furnished by the character, form, and ornamentation of the pottery
of the two sections, which are readily distinguished from each other.

That the Cherokees and Shawnees were distinct tribes, and that the few similarities in customs
and art between them were due to vicinage and intercourse are well-known historical facts.
But there is nothing of this kind to forbid the supposition that the former were the authors
of some of the Ohio works. Moreover, the evidence that they came from a more northern locality,
added to that furnished by the pipes, seems to connect them with the Ohio mound-builders. In
addition to this there is the tradition of the Delawares, given by Heckewelder, which appears
to relate to no known tribe unless it be the Cherokees. Although this tradition has often been
mentioned in works relating to Indians and kindred subjects, it is repeated here that the reader
may judge for himself as to its bearing on the subject now under consideration:

The Lenni Lenape (according to the tradition handed down to them by their ancestors) resided
many hundred years ago in a very distant country in the western part of the American continent.
For some reason which I do not find accounted for, they determined on migrating to the eastward,
and accordingly set out together in a body. After a very long journey and many nights' encampments
[Footnote: "Many Nights' encampment" is a halt of one year at a place.] by the way, they at
length arrived on the Namaesi-Sipu, [Footnote: The Mississippi or The River of Fish; Namaes,
a fish, and Sipu a river.] where they fell in with the Mengwe, [Footnote: The Iroquois, or
Five Nations.] who had likewise emigrated from a distant country, and had struck upon this
river somewhat higher up. Their object was the same with that of the Delawares; they were proceeding
on to the eastward, until they should find a country that pleased them. The spies which the
Lenape had sent forward for the purpose of reconnoitring, had long before their arrival discovered
that the country east of the Mississippi was inhabited by a very powerful nation who had many
large towns built on the great rivers flowing through their land. Those people (as I was told)
called themselves Talligew or Tallgewi. Many wonderful things are told of this famous people.
They are said to have been remarkably tall and stout, and there is a tradition that there were
giants among them, people of a much larger size than the tallest of the Lenape. It is related
that they had built to themselves regular fortifications or intrenchments, from whence they
would sally out, but were generally repulsed. I have seen many of the fortifications said to
have been built by them, two of which, in particular, were remarkable. One of them was near
the mouth of the river Huron, which empties itself into the Lake St. Clair, on the north side
of that lake, at the distance of about 20 miles northeast of Detroit. This spot of ground was,
in the year 1776, owned and occupied by a Mr. Tucker. The other works, properly intrenchments,
being walls or banks of earth regularly thrown up, with a deep ditch on the outside, were on
the Huron River, east of the Sandusky, about six or eight miles from Lake Erie. Outside of
the gateway of each of these two intrenchments, which lay within a mile of each other, were
a number of large flat mounds in which, the Indian pilot said, were buried hundreds of the
slain Talligewi, whom I shall hereafter, with Colonel Gibson, call Alligewi. Of these intrenchments
Mr. Abraham Steiner, who was with me at the time when I saw them, gave a very accurate description,
which was published at Philadelphia in 1789 or 1790, in some periodical work the name of which
I can not at present remember.

When the Lenape arrived on the banks of the Mississippi they sent a message to the Alligewi
to request permission to settle themselves in their neighborhood. This was refused them, but
they obtained leave to pass through the country and seek a settlement farther to the eastward.
The Mengwe, who had hitherto been satisfied with being spectators from a distance, offered
to join them, on condition that, after conquering the country, they should be entitled to share
it with them; their proposal was accepted, and the resolution was taken by the two nations,
to conquer or die.

Having thus united their forces the Lenape and Mengwe declared war against the Alligewi, and
great battles were fought in which many warriors fell on both sides. The enemy fortified their
large towns and erected fortifications, especially on large rivers and near lakes, where they
were successfully attacked and sometimes stormed by the allies. An engagement took place in
which hundreds fell, who were afterwards buried in holes or laid together in heaps and covered
over with earth. No quarter was given, so that the Alligewi at last, finding that their destruction
was inevitable if they persisted in their obstinacy, abandoned the country to the conquerors
and fled down the Mississippi River, from whence they never returned.

The war which was carried on with this nation lasted many years, during which the Lenape lost
a great number of their warriors, while the Mengwe would always hang back in the rear leaving
them to face the enemy. Section iii REQUISITES for the HOME'VEGETABLE GARDEN in deciding upon
the site in the home julienne garden it is well to dispose once and
for all of the old idea that the garden "spot" must be an ugly spot
in the home surroundings.

 For a long period of time, some
say many hundred years, the two nations resided peacefully in this country and increased very
fast. Some of their most enterprising huntsmen and warriors crossed the great swamps, and falling
on streams running to the eastward followed them down to the great bay river (meaning the Susquehanna,
which they call the great bay river from where the west branch falls into the main stream),
thence into the bay itself, which we call Chesapeake. As they pursued their travels, partly
by land and partly by water, sometimes near and at other times on the great salt-water lake,
as they call the sea, they discovered the great river which we call the Delaware.

This quotation, although not the entire tradition as given by Heckewelder, will suffice for
the present purpose.

The traces of the name of these mound-builders, which are still preserved in the name "Allegheny,"
applied to a river and the mountains of Pennsylvania, and the fact that the Delawares down
to the time Heckewelder composed his work called the Allegheny River "Allegewi Sipu," or river
of the Allegewi, furnish evidence that there is at least a vein of truth in this tradition.
If it has any foundation in fact there must have been a people to whom the name "Tallegwi"
[Footnote: There appears to be no real foundation for the name Allegewi, this form being a
mere supposition of Colonel Gibson, suggested by the name the Lenape applied to the Allegheny
River and Mountains.] was applied, for on this the whole tradition hangs. Who were they? In
what tribe and by what name shall we identify them? That they were mound-builders is positively
asserted, and the writer explains what he means by referring to certain mounds and inclosures,
which are well known at the present day, which he says the Indians informed him were built
by this people.

It is all-important to bear in mind the fact that when this tradition was first made known,
and the mounds mentioned were attributed to this people, these ancient works were almost unknown
to the investigating minds of the country. This forbids the supposition that the tradition
was warped or shaped to fit a theory in regard to the origin of these antiquities.

Following the tradition it is fair to conclude, notwithstanding the fact that Heckewelder interpreted
"Namaesi Sipu" by Mississippi, that the principal seats of this tribe or nation were in the
region of the Ohio and the western slope of the Allegheny Mountains, and hence it is not wholly
a gratuitous supposition to believe they were the authors of some of the principal ancient
works of eastern Ohio (including those of the Scioto Valley) and the western part of West Virginia.
Moreover, there is the statement by Haywood, already referred to, that the Cherokees had a
tradition that in former times they dwelt on the Ohio and built mounds.

These data, though slender, when combined with the apparent similarity between the name Tallegwi
and Cherokee or Chellakee, and the character of the works and traditions of the latter, furnish
some ground for assuming that the two were one and the same people. But this assumption necessitates
the further inference that the pressure which drove them southward is to be attributed to some
other people than the Iroquois as known to history, as this movement must have taken place
previous to the time the latter attained their ascendancy. It is probable that Mr. Hale is
correct in deciding that the "Namaesi Sipu" of the tradition was not the Mississippi. [Footnote:
Am. Antiquarian, vol. 5, 1883, p. 117.] His suggestion that it was that portion of the great
river of the North (the St. Lawrence) which connects Lake Huron with Lake Erie, seems also
to be more in conformity with the tradition and other data than any other which has been offered.
If this supposition is accepted it would lead to the inference that the Talamatau, the people
who joined the Delawares in their war on the Tallegwi, were Hurons or Huron-Iroquois previous
to separation. That the reader may have the benefit of Mr. Hale's views on this question, the
following quotation from the article mentioned is given:

