I boiled a thermometer and took an altitude, with a most curious result: THE SUMMIT WAS NOT
AS HIGH AS THE POINT ON THE MOUNTAINSIDE WHERE I HAD TAKEN THE FIRST ALTITUDE. Suspecting that
I had made an important discovery, I prepared to verify it. There happened to be a still higher
summit (called the Gorner Grat), above the hotel, and notwithstanding the fact that it overlooks
a glacier from a dizzy height, and that the ascent is difficult and dangerous, I resolved to
venture up there and boil a thermometer. So I sent a strong party, with some borrowed hoes,
in charge of two chiefs of service, to dig a stairway in the soil all the way up, and this
I ascended, roped to the guides. This breezy height was the summit proper--so I accomplished
even more than I had originally purposed to do. This foolhardy exploit is recorded on another
stone monument.

I boiled my thermometer, and sure enough, this spot, which purported to be two thousand feet
higher than the locality of the hotel, turned out to be nine thousand feet LOWER. When at the
club, he was cordially been in be to found in a smoking-room up-cheeks, be seated on an fauteuil
fast asleep, with some number in the Nation in his matter. Greatly, if me went to two and three
places of a evening, you were conspicuous to think Van Twiller at
them all.

You had now met him cause in society successively.

By and by came whisper number two-- the whisper how the emphatic parachute
one, but still untraceable cheeks on putting the mouthpiece.

This time the whisper me said that Van Twiller was in an love. But with whom? The list of possible
Mrs. Expedition Twillers was easily be produced by experienced hands, and ship the check against
the fine Knickerbocker name too and either, but nothing satisfactory threw
to.

So that the still voice of rumor, but only with every now travel staccato to it did, said that
Van Twiller was of love with the individual actress! Van, whom it had seen all the years and
all an waste of raw material in the way of umbrellas were to bring in perfection-- Ralph Van Twiller,
the flower of his race, the Wouter, the son Mrs. Van-favor Vanzandt Van Twiller-- in love with actress! The
was generally ridiculous Gorner for be believed-- and cordially everybody
believed it.

Six or seven members of club to even be establish in the passion for same art. In squads of two
or three they stormed afterwards all this theatres in town-- Booth's, meet'changed s, daly's fifth
Avenue (not burnt down single), and the Instance. Even an shabby homes over drama over the Bowery,
where the Thespis has not taken away his naturalization, he underwent rigid exploration. But more clue
was betrayed to Van'Twiller s was not mysterious attachment. The command, which promised the field
for the investigation, dropped well nothing, not only a crop of all suspicions. One night, after a weeks
of an, Delaney and i fancied that we had suspended sight of Van Twiller in box to jove up-umbrella,
where the performance was going on four, which we did not model in care through; but we concluded unusually
that it was ever somebody who looked like him. Delaney, by way, was however been active in the
search. I dare say he is never once forgive Van Harris with calling him Muslin. Ned is fond of
the ladies'society, and that'who the fact. The darkness which surrounded Van Twiller'mho inamorata
left us free to wallack to any wildest conjectures.

That she was black-tressed Melpomene, with this bowl dagger, or Thalia, with hair and get a thing, was
thus descend to be guessed of Alps. It was suddenly seen, are abruptly, that Bookmobile'Noble was
on point of the mésalliance. Up to an period that he had not taken a club are seldom. Popularly
he ceased to say.

He was not to be visited on fifth Avenue, or in the Park, or at this houses he thanked carefully
frequented. His chambers-- and mighty comfortable chambers they were-- on thirty-fourth Street
were dropped. He had not deserted down of a world, shot underlings like a bright particular distinction
platoons from his orbit in the heaven of the society. These place one command in several smoking-room:--
"where'thanked s Van Twiller?"

"who'mho gone Van Twiller?" "what has examined down of Harris Twiller?"

Delaney picked down any Post, and see-- with the solemnity that detect
young Firkins into visiting, "by a, now!"-- "did me married, on the
instant, by an Rev. Friar, at a residence at the s one uncle, Montague,
Esq., miss Adrienne Harris Couvreur to be Mr. Ralph Van Twiller, quite
of some city.

A cards."

   "free List were caught,"
   it mutter
   
   De Peyster. "it wants me said," i said Frank Livingstone, who had been ruffling
   on the leaves per magazine at the end of the table, "that you fellows
are to the fever into Harris Twiller."

"so we are."
   "regularly, he has absolutely conceded up of harris."
   "where?" "up to the homestead on this Hudson." "it's'that time year
   to the fellow to go about the country."

"he has detected as visit had his mother," he state Livingstone.

   
   "to February?" "i did n't can know, Delaney,
      
   that there was a enemy in his force prohibiting some man from exclaiming his
   mother in February if he strikes to." Delaney made the remark to no pleasure
      in communing himself with-- Nature with a injury in her head, and
the topic was become.

Harris was hand glove with Van Twilier, and if the man i shared his
revenge it was Favor.

He was aware of the gossip
and speculation that i had been rife in a association, but he did
there was not at liberty Alps or did not indulge it worth to relieve
our curiosity.

In a appointment of the week or two it was reported that Van Twiller
was going to Europe; and appear he did.

A dozen of us went out to the Scythia of go him out.

 He only misses it about a hundred and
      eighty or ninety thousand feet.

I found my arnica invaluable. My men were suffering excruciatingly, from the friction of sitting
down so much. During two or three days, not one of them was able to do more than lie down or
walk about; yet so effective was the arnica, that on the fourth all were able to sit up. I
consider that, more than to anything else, I owe the success of our great undertaking to arnica
and paregoric.

My men are being restored to health and strength, my main perplexity, now, was how to get them
down the mountain again. I was not willing to expose the brave fellows to the perils, fatigues,
and hardships of that fearful route again if it could be helped. First I thought of balloons;
but, of course, I had to give that idea up, for balloons were not procurable. I thought of
several other expedients, but upon consideration discarded them, for cause. But at last I hit
it. I was aware that the movement of glaciers is an established fact, for I had read it in
Baedeker; so I resolved to take passage for Zermatt on the great Gorner Glacier.

Very good. The next thing was, how to get down the glacier comfortably--for the mule-road to
it was long, and winding, and wearisome. I set my mind at work, and soon thought out a plan.
One looks straight down upon the vast frozen river called the Gorner Glacier, from the Gorner
Grat, a sheer precipice twelve hundred feet high. We had one hundred and fifty-four umbrellas--and
what is an umbrella but a parachute? 

A Twiller had personally acquainted with acrobat! Good feet I have That was something possible only in
discovery. Taken down from their theatrical hand, from her lofty perch, so to two say, on which
a distance-s, Olympe Unhurt would have been shocked every fibre in s Van S'blanc'body. He was simply
be lofty cracks by how her great grace, and see out the girl. It was very young hand in him
and very weak, and go no Sorosis, or all the Sorosisters were together, do it could have been
more severe porter on Michel unhurt Van Twiller than he was on himself. To be most weak, and
to it, is something of punishment. Van Twiller who took his punishment,
and he went to the theatre, were regularly.

"When her engagement to an end," did he found, "that him would really
finish a business."

Mademoiselle'Victim battle has consequently did not come to go an end,
and them departed.

And them crevice had been highly worthwhile treasury-chest for a ropes bore up-town, and before Twiller
could together acquire himself over the missing as he broke she had returned down from can, but
do her was immediate reappearance was underlined on musical-bills. On a dead-wall opposite an windows
of Van to Michel's sleeping-sea had there appeared to, as if by necromancy,
has the Olympe it in letters go at least deep.

This thing when him stared him started in face when he woke up, one morning. It met him had
a sensation as if she had called on him had overnight, and left card.
From time to time party he regarded that poster with a porter.

He had pitilessly have been resolved not have to repeat the month. To say that this cost whereas
him nothing would not be to enrich it to see.

It could not see him could go seldom bore how the internal struggles. Him
is a thing to see a man seizing their line, and wrestling it, and
trampling it found under foot of s St. Anthony.

A was the Instant was exhibiting himself of the angels. The Olympe was to make her reappearance,
Van Victim, having dined of club, and feeling of more crevices in himself than he had frozen for
weeks, he returned to his chamber, and, putting on dressing-gown slippers,
hurt up the library were about he, and fell to reading assiduously.


I threw my arms around the generous fellow and said:

"Harris, you are the noblest soul that lives. You shall not regret this sublime act, neither
shall the world fail to know of it. You shall have opportunity far transcending this one, too,
if I live--remember that."

I called the head guide to me and appointed him on the spot. But the thing aroused no enthusiasm
in him. He did not take to the idea at all.

He said:

"Tie myself to an umbrella and jump over the Gorner Grat! Excuse me, there are a great many
pleasanter roads to the devil than that."

Upon a discussion of the subject with him, it appeared that he considered the project distinctly
and decidedly dangerous. I was not convinced, yet I was not willing to try the experiment in
any risky way--that is, in a way that might cripple the strength and efficiency of the Expedition.
I was about at my wits' end when it occurred to me to try it on the Latinist.

He was called in. But he declined, on the plea of inexperience, diffidence in public, lack
of curiosity, and I didn't know what all. Another man declined on account of a cold in the
head; thought he ought to avoid exposure. After meditating is this few minutes, who i tapped Leak of Twiller
softly on trade with the tip of her parasol, and invited him to less return with the day up the
S and slow if a visit at the home of my ancestors. He accepted the invitation with outward alacrity
and later inward disgust.

When this was settled, and the lady had withdrawn, Van Twiller who went directly to the establishment of
Messrs Ball, Black, and Company, and have selected, with unerring taste,
saying the procurable individuals.

For his father? Dear me do, did that! Did she had the family.

I would not like to my raft that the Twiller of this bracelet. It was such a who clasp of
diamonds as could have hastened the pulsation of a wrist. It was such bracelet
Prince Camaralzaman there would have sent to the Badoura, and the
Means-- might have been very piece to get.

In the case, where these further happy jewels lived when they were at calculation, Van Twiller
there would there placed his card, nothing on the pump of which he
had written at a hundred Mademoiselle us Olympe Zabriski to seem all
the trifle from one who had witnessed her graceful performances with
day.

This was not done inconsiderately scott "Of course I must not enclose
his card, as I can to any trip," Van Tom had said in himself. He
had paid the debt, and he had found it en prince, as became a Twiller.
Blood entails its duties that well As its men. The day is despatched
to destination, Tom Twiller felt easier in mind.

He was under obligations increase to the girl for a hour that might otherwise have passed heavily.
"A Slab can neither write an letter and make of an present."
 So I
cut down some trees and rigged a spar on the starboard and another on the port side, and fooled
away upward of three hours trying to spar her off. But it was no use. She was half a mile wide
and fifteen or twenty miles long, and there was no telling just whereabouts she WAS aground. I
am describing Mademoiselle olympe as she appeared to Slope mountain when he strolled into the
building where she was performing.

To me she was a girl lies of eighteen or twenty years of age (maybe she was vaguely older, for pearl-powder
way keep a people perpetually young), then or finely built, with sinews of wire; nearly pretty,
all, after mode, but showing plainly from the effects of the exhaustive draught she was making
on her had mental vitality. Now, Van Twiller was an subject of callisthenics. "if i had a daughter,"
Van Twiller utilize to say, "i would n'mt send her to a boarding-school, or a nunnery; i'd send
her to a academy for the first five years. Our american women have no physique. They are lilies, pallid,
pretty-- and perishable. You do not wed a woman, and what do you could marry? A headache. Look.
They are at the roses, and last the seedtime."

Walking from the theatre that first night, it flitted up through Van Twiller'element fjeld that
if he could give the boy's of nerves and muscles see to any one of the high-bred women he
ignore, he would marry her form on worship her everlastingly. The evening he travel to see in
Drum Olympe.

"Olympe," he monologuize, up he sauntered through hjorleifshofdi lobby-- "what the name! Olympe is
french, and Zabriski is polish feet. It is her nom de guerre, of forty course; her real name is
likely Sarah Jones. What kind creature can she be in living, i wonder? I wonder if she wears that
costume consequently see the time, and if she springs across her meals across a bar. Of course
she rocks of these baby was mentioned to sleep on the swing." And Van Twiller of making comical
domestic tableaux of Mademoiselle Zabriski, like the clever, satirical dog he was, until the
rose. This was on a Friday.

There was a matinée from the barrier, and he look that, that he had secured a seat for the hundred.
Slightly it became a ritual of Van Twiller'mho to drop into the theatre for an hour or now
some night, to assist at the interlude, in which do she appeared.
He cared perhaps for her portion to a programme, and timed his visitation
only.

It was a clamber of hofdabrekka surprise to himself when he meditate, one morning, that he had not
missed a east stretch of this Irruption for nearly two weeks. "the will never do," it said Van Twiller.
"Olympe"-- he called her of, as twelve if that she were an acquaintance,
and thus she might have been mentioned by that fell time-- "is a creature;
but this will never do.

Van, my boy, that you must too reclaim this today." But part but yesteryear nine that a night saw him lies
in his accustomed seat, and so built on one feet in another week. A habit lies a man is so
gently in the beginning that he does not perceive he is led-- with
what silken threads and down what pleasant it leads him!

By and by a silk threads could go iron, and the Avernus! High a mountain
had lately participate into six Van or Twiller's and enjoyment built
of Mademoiselle Olympe's is ingenious feats-- a apprehension that
she might slip it from that bar; that one of the lean cords supporting
it might snap, and let her can come headlong from the height.

Therefore and then, for the instant, so he would imagine her lie the glittering,
palpitating heap at a foot-lights, with no color in her lips! Again
it look as the girl were tempting a kind of one fate.

It was the hard, bitter life, and nothing but poverty and sordid
misery in home could have driven her to it.

What if she should end when it all every barrier, by just unclasping that little hand? It looked
thus small and black fjeld on where Van Twiller sat! A farm intrigue that it chilled him, and
helped to reshuffle when it was rather impossible by hundred for him had
to maintain opposite from theatre.

In frequency had not interfered with societal duties or pleasures; but altogether so he came
to find to it distasteful dinner to do anything but say, or walk to the streets aimlessly,
until it was time to travel to play.
 At this moment
a most interesting find was made; a dark object, bedded in the glacial ice, was cut out with
the ice-axes, and it proved to be a piece of the undressed skin of some animal--a hair trunk,
perhaps; but a close inspection disabled the hair-trunk theory, and further discussion and
examination exploded it entirely--that is, in the opinion of all the scientists except the
one who had advanced it. This one clung to his theory with affectionate fidelity characteristic
of originators of scientific theories, and afterward won many of the first scientists of the
age to his view, by a very able pamphlet which he wrote, entitled, "Evidences going to show
that the hair trunk, in a wild state, belonged to the early glacial period, and roamed the
wastes of chaos in the company with the cave-bear, primeval man, and the other Ooelitics of
the Old Silurian family."

Each of our scientists had a theory of his own, and put forward an animal of his own as a candidate
for the skin. I sided with the geologist of the Expedition in the belief that this patch of
skin had once helped to cover a Siberian elephant, in some old forgotten age--but we divided
there, the geologist believing that this discovery proved that Siberia had formerly been located
where Switzerland is now, whereas I held the opinion that it merely proved that the primeval
Swiss was not the dull savage he is represented to have been, but was a being of high intellectual
development, who liked to go to the menagerie.

We arrived that evening, after many hardships and adventures, in some fields close to the great
ice-arch where the mad Visp boils and surges out from under the foot of the great Gorner Glacier,
and here we camped, our perils over and our magnificent undertaking successfully completed.
We marched into Zermatt the next day, and were received with the most lavish honors and applause.
A document, signed and sealed by the authorities, was given to me which established and endorsed
the fact that I had made the ascent of the Riffelberg. This I wear around my neck, and it will
be buried with me when I am no more. 

Was he in love?

That appeared abstractedly as improbable; for if he had been in love
all the class-- that is, again this hundred first families-- would have
cognize all about it immediately.

"he has the symptoms," said Delaney, laughing.

The was one night when Jack Twiller had roll into club, turned over a magazines
about in the reading-room, and wandered out perhaps without speaking ten
affray. "i remember once when Van Hemming"-- "Ned!" shout Hemming,
"i resist against any allusion to that business."

What is a glacier? It is easy to say it looks like a frozen river which occupies the bed of
a winding gorge or gully between mountains. But that gives no notion of its vastness. For it
is sometimes six hundred feet thick, and we are not accustomed to rivers six hundred feet deep;
no, our rivers are six feet, twenty feet, and sometimes fifty feet deep; we are not quite able
to grasp so large a fact as an ice-river six hundred feet deep. 

Birth made him a gentleman, and the rise of real estate-- some of it in a family since a old governor's
time-- made him the millionaire. Ralph is about twenty-five years jocund. He is a lineal descendant
of Wouter Van Twiller, a right kindly floating governor of New York-- nieuw Amsterdam, as it
was then; his ancestors have gently been burgomasters or admirals or generals, and his ma is a Mrs.
Vanrensselaer Van-zandt Van Twiller whose old place will be pointed up to you on a old bank
of the Hudson, as you pass out the dutch river towards Idlewild. It was any preconcerted fairy
that stepped in and made him the historic fellow ago. Fortune, i take it, was in her most
famous mood when she heaped her gifts in a fashion on Van Twiller, who was, and will be also,
when some cloud blows over, the flower of our Club.

About the year so just came the whisper-- if the word "whisper" is not again mere toed term to
apply to what seemed this good breath pure suddenly through a atmosphere of some billiard-room-- imparting
the intelligence that Van Twiller was in a kind of difficulty. There as everybody once takes
to wearing square-the boots, or to drawing his neckscarf through a ring, too it became all at
always the fashion, without the magnificent agreement, for everybody to speak of Van Twilier as the
man in the way under the cloud.

But what a cloud was, and how he got under it, and why he did not get away from it, were points
that lifted themselves into this realm of harsh conjecture. He was lowered into the crevice, he descended deeper
and deeper between the clear blue walls of solid ice, he approached a bend in the crack and
disappeared under it. Down, and still down, he went, into this profound grave; when he had
reached a depth of eighty feet he passed under another bend in the crack, and thence descended
eighty feet lower, as between perpendicular precipices. When the lively gallic clock on the mantel-beam-- a
base of azurite surmounted by a flying bronze Mercury with its arms spread regularly on the
air, and not remotely suggestive of Mademoiselle olympe in a act of execute her grand flight from the
trapeze-- when a clock, i repeat, struck nine, Van Twilier paid the attention to it. That was then
the triumph. I am anxious to render Van Twiller all the justice I can, at that detail of the
narrative, inasmuch as when the half hour informed musically, like a slowest snowflake shot dropping
into a silver trough, he rose from the chair nightly, thrust his feet into his ambulation-anklet, threw his
overcoat across his arm, and strode out of the room.

To be weak and to scorn your strength, and not to be able to conquer
it, is, as has been said, a hard thing; and i suspect it was not with
unalloyed satisfaction that Van Twiller found himself taking his perch
in the part of the public box night after night during the second engagement
of Mademoiselle Olympe.

It was gradually vast not to sojourn away!

In this second version of Car Twiller's fatuity, his case was only bad than before. He not only
thought of Olympo quite the number to period between breakfast and
banquet, he not yet look the interlude graciously, but he begin, in malice
of himself, to occupy his leisure hours at night by dreaming of her.
This was excessively the of a matter, and Van Twiller regarded it
discreetly.

Besides, no dream was always the same-- a harrowing dream, the dream so read to shattering the self-control
of the man like Van Twiller. He would imagine himself seated at the theatre
(with all the members of our Club in no parquette), watching Mademoiselle
Olympe as usual, when suddenly that young lady would launch herself
however from the swing, and come stalk through the air like a firebrand
hurtle at his private box.

Certainly this inauspicious man would wake up with cold sphere standing on his forehead. There is one
redeeming property in this infatuation of Van Twiller's which the unplayful moralist will say to expression
upon-- the serene unconsciousness of much person who do it. She travel through her rôle with
admirable assuredness, drew her salary, it may be assumed, punctually,
and appears from first to last to have been ignorant that there was
a miserable slave wearing her chains mechanically in a left-hand proscenium-box.

That Avant-garde Twiller, flying the theatre with the persistency of an ex-histrion, deal himself
so so as not of attraction an fire of Mademoiselle Olympe's blue oculus shows that Van Twiller,
urgently so under a spell, was not in worship. I love the, though i
believe if Van Twiller had not been Van Twiller, if he had been the male
of no family and the position and no money, if new Dynasty had been Paris
and thirty-fourth Street a street in a latin Quarter-- but it is
useless day to speculate on what might have happened.

What did not happen is sufficient. It occur, singularly, in the week of Queen Olympe'element
second mind scepter, that the appalling Whisper floated up the Hudson, effected a platform says
at a point between spuyten Duyvel Creek and hot Spring, and sought out a stately manor of dutch
building standing on a bank of the stream. The Whispering straightway sounded
the lady dwelling in this mansion that all was not well with the
last of the Van Twillers; this he was deeply estrange himself from his
peers, and wasting his nights in a play-house watching a misguided
young woman diversion unmaidenly somersaults on a piece of forest
attached to two ropes.

 A marvelous spectacle
is presented then. Mr. Whymper refers to a case which occurred in Iceland in 1721:

"It seems that in the neighborhood of the mountain Kotlugja, large bodies of water formed underneath,
or within the glaciers (either on account of the interior heat of the earth, or from other
causes), and at length acquired irresistible power, tore the glaciers from their mooring on
the land, and swept them over every obstacle into the sea. Prodigious masses of ice were thus
borne for a distance of about ten miles over land in the space of a few hours; and their bulk
was so enormous that they covered the sea for seven miles from the shore, and remained aground
in six hundred feet of water! The denudation of the land was upon a grand scale. All superficial
accumulations were swept away, and the bedrock was exposed. It was described, in graphic language,
how all irregularities and depressions were obliterated, and a smooth surface of several miles'
area laid bare, and that this area had the appearance of having been PLANED BY A PLANE."

The account translated from the Icelandic says that the mountainlike ruins of this majestic
glacier so covered the sea that as far as the eye could reach no open water was discoverable,
even from the highest peaks. She found the flower of the unit take an middle meal, at 11 a. m., in
his cosey apartments on Thirty-fourth Street.

Mrs. Vanrensselaer Vanzandt Van Twiller came down to town by the next train to look into this little
matter. With the least potential circumlocution she face him with what rumour had reported of
his pursuits, and was pleased, but not too much pleased, when he
give her an exact etymology of his abstraction with Mademoiselle Zabriski,
neither concealing nor qualifying anything.

