The debate lasted ten minutes, and at the end four boys walked slowly, with much manifestation
of feeling, back to the tree where the fifth sat. There was woe and lamentation after the manner
of boy-kind. When the boys left the yard it seemed to Miss Morgan that she could not look from
her work without seeing the lonesome figure of Bud. In the afternoon the patter of feet by
her house grew slower, and then ceased. Occasionally a belated wayfarer sped by. The music
of the circus band outside of the tent came to Miss Morgan's ears on gusts of wind, and died
away as the wind ebbed. She dropped the dish-cloth three times in five minutes, and washed
her cup and saucer twice. She struggled bravely in the Slough of Despond for awhile, and then
turned back with Pliable.

"Henry," she said, as the boy walked past her carrying peppergrass to the bird, "Henry, what
made you act so last night?"

The boy dropped his head and answered: "I dunno."

"But, Henry, didn't you know it was wrong?"

"I dunno."

"Why did you stick that little boy with the pin?"

"Well--well--" he gasped, preparing for a defence. "Well--he pinched me first."

"Yes, Henry, but don't you know that it's wrong to do those things in church? Don't you see
how bad it was?"

"I was just a-playin', Miss Morgan; I didn't mean to."

Bud did not dare to trust his instinctive reading of the signs. He went on impulsively: "I
wanted him to quit, but he just kept right on, and Brother Baker didn't touch him."

The wind brought the staccato music of the circus band to the foster-mother's ears. The music
completed her moral decay, for she was thinking, if Brother Baker would only look after his
own children as carefully as he looked after those of other people, the world would be better.
Then she said: "Now, Henry, if I let you go, just this once--now just this once, mind you--will
you promise never to do anything like that again?"

Blackness dropped from the boy's spirit, and by main strength he strangled a desire to yell.
The desire revived when he reached the alley, and he ran whooping to the circus grounds.

There is a law of crystallization among boys which enables molecules of the same gang to meet
in whatever agglomeration they may be thrown. So ten minutes after Bud Perkins left home he
found Piggy and Jimmy and old Abe and Mealy in the menagerie tent. Whereupon the South End
was able to present a bristling front to the North End--a front which even the pleasings of
the lute in the circus band could not break. But the boys knew that the band playing in the
circus tent meant that the performance in the ring was about to begin. So they cut short an
interesting dialogue with a keeper, concerning the elephant that remembered the man who gave
her tobacco ten years ago, and tried to kill him the week before the show came to Willow Creek.
But when the pageant in the ring unfolded its tinselled splendor in the Grand Entry, Bud Perkins
left earth and walked upon clouds of glory. His high-strung nerves quivered with delight as
the ring disclosed its treasures--Willie Sells on his spotted ponies, James Robinson on his
dapple gray, the "8 funny clowns--count them 8," the Japanese jugglers and tumblers, the bespangled
women on the rings, the dancing ponies, and the performing dogs. The climax of his joy came
when Zazell, "the queen of the air," was shot from her cannon to the trapeze. Bud had decided,
days before the circus, that this feature would please him most. Zazell's performance was somewhat
tame, but immediately thereafter a really startling thing happened. A clown holding the trick
mule called to the boys near Bud, who nudged him into the clown's attention. The clown, drawing
from the wide pantaloons a dollar, pantomimed to Bud. He held it up for the boy and all the
spectators to see. Alternately he pointed to the trick mule and to the coin, coaxing and questioning
by signs, as he did so. It took perhaps a minute for Bud's embarrassment to wear off. Then
two motives impelled him to act. He didn't propose to let the North-enders see his embarrassment,
and he saw that he might earn the dollar for Miss Morgan's missionary box, thus mitigating
the disgrace he had brought upon her in church. This inspiration literally flashed over Bud,
and before he knew it, he was standing in the ring, with his head cocked upon one side to indicate
his utter indifference to everything in the world. Of course it was a stupendous pretence.
For under his pretty starched shirt, which Miss Morgan had forced on him in the hurry of departure,
his heart was beating like a little windmill in a gale. As Bud bestrode the donkey the cheers
of the throng rose, but above the tumult he could hear the North End jeering him. He could
hear the words the North-enders spoke, even their "ho-o-oho-os," and their "nyayh-nyayh-nyayahs,"
and their "look--at--old--pretty--boy's," and their "watch-him-hit-the-roof's," and their "get-a-basket's,"
and similar remarks less desirable for publication. As the donkey cantered off, Bud felt sure
he could keep his seat. Once the animal bucked. Bud did not fall. The donkey ran, and stopped
quickly. Bud held on. Then the donkey's feet twinkled--it seemed to Bud in the very top of
the tent--and Bud slid off the animal's neck to the ring. The clown brought the boy his hat,
and stood over him as he rose. Bud laughed stupidly into the chalked face of the clown, who
handed Bud a dollar, remarking in a low voice, "Well, son, you're a daisy. They generally drop
the first kick."

What passed in the ring as Bud left it, bedraggled and dusty, did not interest him. He brushed
himself as he went. The band was playing madly, and the young woman in the stiff skirts was
standing by her horse ready to mount. The crowd did not stop laughing; Bud inclined his head
to dust his knickerbockers, and then in a tragic instant he saw what was convulsing the multitude
with laughter. The outer seam of the right leg of his velveteen breeches was gone, and a brown
leg was winking in and out from the flapping garment as he walked. Wildly he gathered the parted
garment, and it seemed to him that he never would cover the ground between the ring and the
benches. In the course of several aeons--which the other boys measured by fleeting minutes--the
wave of shame that covered Bud subsided. Pins bound up the wounds in his clothes. He drew a
natural breath, and was able to join the mob which howled down the man who announced the concert.

After that the inexorable minutes flew by until the performance ended. In the menagerie tent
Bud and his friends looked thirstily upon the cool, pink "schooners" of lemonade, and finally,
when they had spent a few blissful moments with the monkeys and had enjoyed a last, long, lingering
look at the elephants, they dragged themselves unwillingly away into the commonplace of sunshine
and trees and blue sky. Only the romantic touch of the side-show banners and the wonder of
the gilded wagons assured them that their memories of the passing hour were not empty dreams.

The boys were standing enraptured before the picture of the fat woman upon the swaying canvas.
Bud had drifted away from them to glut his eyes upon the picture of the snakes writhing around
the charmer. The North-enders had been following Bud at a respectful distance, waiting for
the opportunity which his separation from his clan gave to them. They were enforced by a country
boy of great reputed prowess in battle. Bud did not know his danger until they pounced upon
him. In an instant the fight was raging. Over the guy ropes it went, under the ticket wagon,
into the thick of the lemonade stands. And when Piggy and Abe and Jimmy had joined it, they
trailed the track of the storm by torn hats, bruised, battle-scarred boys, and the wreckage
incident to an enlivening occasion. When his comrades found Bud, the argument had narrowed
down to Bud and the boy from the country, the other wranglers having dropped out for heavy
repairs. The fight, which had been started to avenge ancient wrongs, particularly the wrongs
of the bill-board, only added new wrongs to the list. The country boy was striking wildly,
and trying to clinch his antagonist, when the town marshal--the bogie-man of all boys--stopped
the fight. But of course no town marshal can come into the thick of a discussion in Boyville
and know much of the merits of the question. So when the marshal of Willow Creek saw Bud Perkins
putting the finishing touches of a good trouncing on a strange boy, and also saw Bill Pennington's
boy, and Henry Sears's boy, and Mrs. Carpenter's boy, and old man Jones's boy dancing around
in high glee at the performance, he quietly gathered in the boys he knew, and let the stranger go.

Now no boy likes to be marched down the main street of his town with the callous finger of
the marshal under his shirt-band. The spectacle operates distinctly against the peace and dignity
of Boyville for months thereafter. For passing youths who forget there is a morrow jibe at
the culprits and thus plant the seeds of dissensions which bloom in fights. It was a sweaty,
red-faced crew that the marshal dumped into Pennington's grocery with, "Here, Bill, I found
your boy and these young demons fightin' down 't the circus ground, and I took 'em in charge.
You 'tend to 'em, will you?"

Mr. Pennington's glance at his son showed that Piggy was unharmed. A swift survey of the others
gave each, save Bud, a bill of health. The simile pleased Pennington so that he renewed his
laughter, and paid no heed to the chatter of the pack clamoring to tell all in one breath,
the history of the incident that had led to Bud's dilapidation. Also they were drawing gloomy
pictures of the appearance of his assailants, after the custom of boys in such cases. Because
his son was not involved in the calamity, Piggy's father was not moved deeply by the story
of the raid of the North-enders and their downfall. So he put the young gentlemen of the Court
of Boyville into the back room of his grocery store, where coal-oil and molasses barrels and
hams and bacon and black shadows of many mysterious things were gathered. He gave the royal
party a cheese knife and a watermelon, and bade them be merry, a bidding which set the hearts
of Piggy and Abe and Jimmy and Mealy to dancing, while Bud's heart, which had been sinking
lower and lower into a quagmire of dread, beat on numbly and did not join the joy. As the time
for going home approached, Bud shivered in his soul at the thought of meeting Miss Morgan.
Not even the watermelon revived him, and when a watermelon will not help a boy his extremity
is dire. Still he laughed and chatted with apparent merriment, but he knew how hollow was his
laughter and what mockery was in his cheer. When the melon was eaten business took its regular
order.

"Say, Bud, how you goin' to get home?" asked Abe.

Bud grinned as he looked at his rags.

"Gee," said Mealy, "I'm glad it ain't me."

"Aw, shucks," returned Bud, and he thought of the stricken Ananias in the Sunday-school lesson
leaf as he spoke; "run right through like I always do. What I got to be 'fraid of?"

"Yes, Mr. Bud, you can laugh, but you know you'll catch it when you get home."

This shaft from Jimmy Sears put in words the terror in Bud's heart. But he replied: "I'll bet
you I don't."

Bud's instinct piloted him by a circuitous route up the alley to the kitchen door. Miss Morgan
sat on the front porch, waiting for the boy to return before serving supper. He stood helplessly
in the kitchen for a minute, with a weight of indecision upon him. He feared to go to the front
porch, where Miss Morgan was. He feared to stay in the kitchen. But when he saw the empty wood-box
a light seemed to dawn. Instinct guided him to the woodpile, and the law of self-preservation
filled his arms with wood, and instinct carried him to the kitchen wood-box time and again,
and laid the wood in the box as gently as if it had been glass and as softly as if it had been
velvet. Not until the pile had grown far above the wainscoting on the kitchen wall, did a stick
crashing to the floor tell Miss Morgan that Bud was in the house.

But there is a destiny that shapes our ends, and just as the falling wood attracted Miss Morgan's
attention, it was diverted by a belligerent party at her front gate. This belligerent party
was composed of two persons, to wit: one mother from the north end of Willow Creek, irate to
the spluttering point, and one boy lagging as far behind the mother as his short arm would
allow him to lag. The mother held the short arm, and was literally dragging her son to Miss
Morgan's gate to offer him in evidence as "Exhibit A" in a possible cause of the State of Kansas
vs. Henry Perkins. Exhibit A was black and blue as to the eyes, torn as to the shirt, bloody
as to the nose, tumbled and dusty as to the hair, and as to the countenance, clearly and unquestionably
sheep-faced. The mother opened the bombardment with: "Miss Morgan, I just want you to look
at my boy."

Miss Morgan looked in horror, and exclaimed: "Well, for mercy sakes! Where on earth's he been?"

And the leader of the war party returned: "Where's he been? Well, I'll tell you where he's
been. And I just want you to know who done this." Here Exhibit A got behind a post. The recital
of the details of his catastrophe was humiliating. But the mother continued: "Henry Perkins
done this. I don't believe in stirring up neighborhood quarrels and all that, but I've just
stood this long enough. My boy can't stick his nose out of the door without that Perkins boy
jumpin' on him. If you can't do anything with that Perkins boy, I'll show him there's a law
in this land."

Miss Morgan wilted as the speech proceeded. She had voice only to say, "I'm sure there's some
mistake;" and then remembering the crash of the wood on the kitchen floor, she called: "Henry,
come here!"

As Bud shambled through the house, the spokesman of the belligerents replied: "No, there isn't
no mistake either. My boy is a good little boy, and just as peaceable a boy as there is in
this town. And because I don't allow him to fight, that Perkins boy picks on him all the time.
I've told him to keep out of his way and not to play with Henry Perkins, but he can't be runnin'
all over this town to keep--"

And then Exhibit B, with scratched face, tattered raiment, and grimy features, stood in the
doorway. The witness for the State looked in dumb amazement at the wreck. Miss Morgan saw Bud,
and her temper rose--not at him, but at his adversary. Exhibit A sulkily turned his face from
Exhibit B, and Exhibit B seemed to be oblivious of the presence of Exhibit A; for the boys
it was a scene too shameful for mutual recognition. Miss Morgan broke the heavy silence with:
"Henry, where on earth have you been?"

"Been t' the circus," replied the boy.

"Henry, did you blacken that little boy's eyes, and tear his clothes that way?" inquired Miss
Morgan when her wits returned.

"Why--no'm--I didn't. But he was one of four fellers that picked on me comin' home from the
circus, and tried to lick me."

"Willie," demanded the head of the attacking posse, "did you pick a fight with that Perkins boy?"

"Oh, no 'm, no 'm! I was just playin' round the tent, me and another boy, and Bud he come up
and jumped on us." And then to add verisimilitude to his narrative, he appended: "Him and four
other boys."

"Henry," asked Miss Morgan, as she surveyed the debris of Henry's Sunday clothes, and her womanly
wrath for the destroyer of them began to boil, "Henry, now tell me honestly, is this little
boy telling the truth? Now, don't you story to me, Henry."

"Honest injun, Miss Morgan, I cross my heart and hope to drop dead this minute if I ain't tellin'
you the way it was. Him and them North-enders, why they come along and called me names, and
he tried to hit me, and I just shoved him away like this," and Henry executed a polite pantomime.
"And I was swingin' my arms out to keep 'em all from hittin' me, and he got in the way, and
I couldn't help it. And they was all a pickin' on me, and I told 'em all the time I didn't
want to fight."

But Exhibit A kept looking at his mother and shaking his head in violent contradiction of Bud,
as the story was told.

Miss Morgan asked: "Who scratched your face so, Henry?"

"Him; he's all the time fightin' me."

"No, ma, I didn't. You know I didn't."

Exhibit A and Exhibit B were still back to back. Then Exhibit B responded: "Miss Morgan, you
ast him if he didn't cuss and damn me, and say he was goin' to pound me to death if I ever
come north of Sixth."

To which the leader of the raiders returned in great scorn: "The very idea! Just listen at
that! Why, Miss Morgan, that Perkins boy is the bully of this town. Come on, Willie, your pa
will see if there is no law to protect you from such boys as him." Whereupon the war party
faced about, and walked down the sidewalk and away.

Miss Morgan and Bud watched the North End woman and her son depart. Miss Morgan turned to Bud,
and spoke spiritedly: "Now, Henry, don't ever have anything to do with that kind of trash again.
Now, you won't forget, will you, Henry?"

Bud examined his toes carefully, and replied, "No 'm."

In the threshold she put her hand on the boy's shoulder, and continued: "Now, don't you mind
about it, Henry. They sha'n't touch you. You come and wash, and we'll have supper."

When a boy has a woman for a champion, if he is wise, he trusts her to any length. So Bud went
to the kitchen, picked up the water-bucket, and went to the well, partly to keep from displaying
a gathering wave of affection for his foster-mother, and partly to let the magnificence of
the wood-box burst upon her in his absence. When he returned, he found Miss Morgan pointing
toward the wood-box and beaming upon him. Bud grinned, and fished in his pocket for the coin.

"Here's a dollar I got for ridin' the trick mule," he faltered. "I thought it would be nice
for the missionary society." That he might check any weak feminine emotions, he turned his
attention to the supper-table, and blurted: "Gee, we're goin' to have pie, ain't we? I tell
you, I'm mighty pie hungry."

The glow of Miss Morgan's melted heart shone upon her face. Through a seraphic smile she spoke:
"It's apple pie, too, Henry--your kind." As she put the supper upon the table, she asked: "Did
you have a good time at the circus, Henry?"

The boy nodded vehemently, and said: "You bet!" and then went on, after a pause, "I guess I
tore my pants a little gettin' off of that mule; but I thought you'd like the dollar."

It was the finest speech he could make. "I guess I can mend them, Henry," she answered; and
then she asked, with her face in the cupboard, "Sha'n't we try some of the new strawberry preserves,
Henry?"

As she was opening the jar she concluded that Henry Perkins was an angel--a conclusion which,
in view of the well-known facts, was manifestly absurd.

"THE HERB CALLED HEARTS-EASE"

It was dusk in Boyville. The boys at a game of hide-and-seek filled the air with their calls:

          "Bushel of wheat, and a
            Bushel of rye--
          All t' ain't ready
            Holler aye.
    All in ten feet of my base is caught: All eyes open."

Or

    "One--two--three for me."

Or

    "All's out's in free."

Among the trees they scampered; into hay-stacks they wormed; over barrels and boxes they wiggled;
they huddled under the sunflowers and the horse-weeds. It was a royal game, but as the moon
rose it merged into pull-away. That game flourished for a while and transformed itself by an
almost imperceptible evolution into a series of races down the dusty road. But when the moon's
silver had marked itself upon the grass, the boys were lying prone on a hay-cock behind the
royal castle. They chattered idly, and the murmur of their talk rose on the just-felt breeze
that greets the rising moon, like the ripple of waters. But the chatter was only a seeming.
For in truth the boys were absorbing the glory of the moonlight. And the undertones of their
being were sounding in unison with the gentle music of the hour. Their souls--fresher from
God than are the souls of men--were a-quiver with joy, and their lips babbled to hide their
ecstasies. In Boyville it is a shameful thing to flaunt the secrets of the heart. As the night
deepened, and the shy stars peeped at the bold moon, the boys let their prattle ebb into silence.
Long they lay looking upward--with the impulse in their souls that prompted the eternal question
that Adam left unanswered, that David cried in passion across his harp, that the wise men of
the world have left locked in mystery--the question of the Whence, the Why, and the Whither.

As the moon climbed high into the arc of the Heavens, the company upon the hay-cock dispersed,
one by one, till a solitary boy remained.

After he had gazed at the moon awhile a thrill of sheer madness set him to tumbling, head over
heels, upon the fresh hay. Life was full of gladness for him, and his throat cramped with a
delicious longing for he knew not what. He wondered vaguely if it were not something new and
unimaginably good to eat. It was the nearest he could come to a defining of the longing. Of
course no one can define it. It is that which quickens the blood of all young creatures--the
rosebud, the meadow-lark, the dragon-fly, the colt, the boy and the maiden, bidding them glorify
God with the show and the example of their comeliness. The boy rose from the hay and skipped
under the trees, over the fantastic figures of the moon-spun carpet. He waved his arms, and
there came to his throat a simple song, which he chanted croakingly, lest some one should hear
him and laugh. He stopped, and sitting on a fence looked at a great white cloud that was mounting
the western sky. His soul was listening to the faraway music from the breakers of the restless
rising sea of ambition, and the rush of life and action, that were flooding into the distant
rim of his consciousness. The music charmed him. Tears came to his eyes, he knew not why. But
we, whom this mighty tide has carried away from that bourne whereon the boy's feet strayed
so happily--we know why the far-seeing angels gave him tears.

A dog in some distant farm-yard was baying at the moon. A whining screech owl sent a faint
shudder of superstitious fear over the boy. For a long time he sat on the fence absorbing the
night sounds--the claque of the frogs, the burring of the crickets, the hum of the water on
the mill-dam far down the valley, and the occasional call of some human voice, ringing like
a golden bell in the hush of the night. It was after nine and the boy was deep in his trackless
revery. A woman called,--

"Win-nee, Win-nee, oh, Winnie."

The spell upon him was almost too delicious to break; but he roused himself to reply,--

"Yessum. All right."

Then the mother's voice continued: "Now wash your feet, Winnie, and wipe 'em dry; don't come
to bed with dirty feet."

Slowly the boy climbed to the earth. He shuffled through dew, but his feet were still too dirty.
He stood in the tub of water by the pump, rubbing one foot with the other, and his eyes turned
moonward. The thrall of the night caught him again. In a hazy stupor he sat on the kitchen
step drying his feet. When he got up, Piggy Pennington gazed for a moment at a star--a pale
star which hovered timidly over the chimney of the home which sheltered his Heart's Desire.
With the lunacy upon him, he flung to the star a bashful kiss. Then he grinned foolishly and
came to himself with a grunt, as he ran up stairs to his room. He was ashamed to face the south
breeze that fanned his bed.