Now, there is my corn, two or three inches high this 18th of May, and apparently having no
fear of a frost. I was hoeing it this morning for the first time,--it is not well usually to
hoe corn until about the 18th of May,--when Polly came out to look at the Lima beans. She seemed
to think the poles had come up beautifully. I thought they did look well: they are a fine set
of poles, large and well grown, and stand straight. They were inexpensive, too. The cheapness
came about from my cutting them on another man's land, and he did not know it. I have not examined
this transaction in the moral light of gardening; but I know people in this country take great
liberties at the polls. Polly noticed that the beans had not themselves come up in any proper
sense, but that the dirt had got off from them, leaving them uncovered. She thought it would
be well to sprinkle a slight layer of dirt over them; and I, indulgently, consented. It occurred
to me, when she had gone, that beans always come up that way,--wrong end first; and that what
they wanted was light, and not dirt.

Observation.--Woman always did, from the first, make a muss in a garden.

I inherited with my garden a large patch of raspberries. Splendid berry the raspberry, when
the strawberry has gone. This patch has grown into such a defiant attitude, that you could
not get within several feet of it. Its stalks were enormous in size, and cast out long, prickly
arms in all directions; but the bushes were pretty much all dead. I have walked into them a
good deal with a pruning-knife; but it is very much like fighting original sin. The variety
is one that I can recommend. I think it is called Brinckley's Orange. It is exceedingly prolific,
and has enormous stalks. The fruit is also said to be good; but that does not matter so much,
as the plant does not often bear in this region. The stalks seem to be biennial institutions;
and as they get about their growth one year, and bear the next year, and then die, and the
winters here nearly always kill them, unless you take them into the house (which is inconvenient
if you have a family of small children), it is very difficult to induce the plant to flower
and fruit. This is the greatest objection there is to this sort of raspberry. I think of keeping
these for discipline, and setting out some others, more hardy sorts, for fruit.

SECOND WEEK

Next to deciding when to start your garden, the most important matter is, what to put in it.
It is difficult to decide what to order for dinner on a given day: how much more oppressive
is it to order in a lump an endless vista of dinners, so to speak! For, unless your garden
is a boundless prairie (and mine seems to me to be that when I hoe it on hot days), you must
make a selection, from the great variety of vegetables, of those you will raise in it; and
you feel rather bound to supply your own table from your own garden, and to eat only as you
have sown.

I hold that no man has a right (whatever his sex, of course) to have a garden to his own selfish
uses. He ought not to please himself, but every man to please his neighbor. I tried to have
a garden that would give general moral satisfaction. It seemed to me that nobody could object
to potatoes (a most useful vegetable); and I began to plant them freely. But there was a chorus
of protest against them. "You don't want to take up your ground with potatoes," the neighbors
said; "you can buy potatoes" (the very thing I wanted to avoid doing is buying things). "What
you want is the perishable things that you cannot get fresh in the market."--"But what kind
of perishable things?" A horticulturist of eminence wanted me to sow lines of straw-berries
and raspberries right over where I had put my potatoes in drills. I had about five hundred
strawberry-plants in another part of my garden; but this fruit-fanatic wanted me to turn my
whole patch into vines and runners. I suppose I could raise strawberries enough for all my
neighbors; and perhaps I ought to do it. I had a little space prepared for melons,--muskmelons,--which
I showed to an experienced friend.

"You are not going to waste your ground on muskmelons?" he asked. "They rarely ripen in this
climate thoroughly, before frost." He had tried for years without luck. I resolved to not go
into such a foolish experiment. But, the next day, another neighbor happened in. "Ah! I see
you are going to have melons. My family would rather give up anything else in the garden than
musk-melons,--of the nutmeg variety. They are the most grateful things we have on the table."
So there it was. There was no compromise: it was melons, or no melons, and somebody offended
in any case. I half resolved to plant them a little late, so that they would, and they would
n't. But I had the same difficulty about string-beans (which I detest), and squash (which I
tolerate), and parsnips, and the whole round of green things.

I have pretty much come to the conclusion that you have got to put your foot down in gardening.
If I had actually taken counsel of my friends, I should not have had a thing growing in the
garden to-day but weeds. And besides, while you are waiting, Nature does not wait. Her mind
is made up. She knows just what she will raise; and she has an infinite variety of early and
late. The most humiliating thing to me about a garden is the lesson it teaches of the inferiority
of man. Nature is prompt, decided, inexhaustible. She thrusts up her plants with a vigor and
freedom that I admire; and the more worthless the plant, the more rapid and splendid its growth.
She is at it early and late, and all night; never tiring, nor showing the least sign of exhaustion.

"Eternal gardening is the price of liberty," is a motto that I should put over the gateway
of my garden, if I had a gate. And yet it is not wholly true; for there is no liberty in gardening.
The man who undertakes a garden is relentlessly pursued. He felicitates himself that, when
he gets it once planted, he will have a season of rest and of enjoyment in the sprouting and
growing of his seeds. It is a green anticipation. He has planted a seed that will keep him
awake nights; drive rest from his bones, and sleep from his pillow. Hardly is the garden planted,
when he must begin to hoe it. The weeds have sprung up all over it in a night. They shine and
wave in redundant life. The docks have almost gone to seed; and their roots go deeper than
conscience. Talk about the London Docks!--the roots of these are like the sources of the Aryan
race. And the weeds are not all. I awake in the morning (and a thriving garden will wake a
person up two hours before he ought to be out of bed) and think of the tomato-plants,--the
leaves like fine lace-work, owing to black bugs that skip around, and can't be caught. Somebody
ought to get up before the dew is off (why don't the dew stay on till after a reasonable breakfast?)
and sprinkle soot on the leaves. I wonder if it is I. Soot is so much blacker than the bugs,
that they are disgusted, and go away. You can't get up too early, if you have a garden. You
must be early due yourself, if you get ahead of the bugs. I think, that, on the whole, it would
be best to sit up all night, and sleep daytimes. Things appear to go on in the night in the
garden uncommonly. It would be less trouble to stay up than it is to get up so early.

I have been setting out some new raspberries, two sorts,--a silver and a gold color. How fine
they will look on the table next year in a cut-glass dish, the cream being in a ditto pitcher!
I set them four and five feet apart. I set my strawberries pretty well apart also. The reason
is, to give room for the cows to run through when they break into the garden,--as they do sometimes.
A cow needs a broader track than a locomotive; and she generally makes one. I am sometimes
astonished, to see how big a space in, a flower-bed her foot will cover. The raspberries are
called Doolittle and Golden Cap. I don't like the name of the first variety, and, if they do
much, shall change it to Silver Top. You never can tell what a thing named Doolittle will do.
The one in the Senate changed color, and got sour. They ripen badly,--either mildew, or rot
on the bush. They are apt to Johnsonize,--rot on the stem. I shall watch the Doolittles.

THIRD WEEK

I believe that I have found, if not original sin, at least vegetable total depravity in my
garden; and it was there before I went into it. It is the bunch, or joint, or snakegrass,--whatever
it is called. As I do not know the names of all the weeds and plants, I have to do as Adam
did in his garden,--name things as I find them. This grass has a slender, beautiful stalk:
and when you cut it down, or pull up a long root of it, you fancy it is got rid of; but in
a day or two it will come up in the same spot in half a dozen vigorous blades. Cutting down
and pulling up is what it thrives on. Extermination rather helps it. If you follow a slender
white root, it will be found to run under the ground until it meets another slender white root;
and you will soon unearth a network of them, with a knot somewhere, sending out dozens of sharp-pointed,
healthy shoots, every joint prepared to be an independent life and plant. The only way to deal
with it is to take one part hoe and two parts fingers, and carefully dig it out, not leaving
a joint anywhere. It will take a little time, say all summer, to dig out thoroughly a small
patch; but if you once dig it out, and keep it out, you will have no further trouble.

I have said it was total depravity. Here it is. If you attempt to pull up and root out any
sin in you, which shows on the surface,--if it does not show, you do not care for it,--you
may have noticed how it runs into an interior network of sins, and an ever-sprouting branch
of them roots somewhere; and that you cannot pull out one without making a general internal
disturbance, and rooting up your whole being. I suppose it is less trouble to quietly cut them
off at the top--say once a week, on Sunday, when you put on your religious clothes and face
so that no one will see them, and not try to eradicate the network within.

Remark.--This moral vegetable figure is at the service of any clergyman who will have the manliness
to come forward and help me at a day's hoeing on my potatoes. None but the orthodox need apply.

I, however, believe in the intellectual, if not the moral, qualities of vegetables, and especially
weeds. There was a worthless vine that (or who) started up about midway between a grape-trellis
and a row of bean-poles, some three feet from each, but a little nearer the trellis. When it
came out of the ground, it looked around to see what it should do. The trellis was already
occupied. The bean-pole was empty. There was evidently a little the best chance of light, air,
and sole proprietorship on the pole. And the vine started for the pole, and began to climb
it with determination. Here was as distinct an act of choice, of reason, as a boy exercises
when he goes into a forest, and, looking about, decides which tree he will climb. And, besides,
how did the vine know enough to travel in exactly the right direction, three feet, to find
what it wanted? This is intellect. The weeds, on the other hand, have hateful moral qualities.
To cut down a weed is, therefore, to do a moral action. I feel as if I were destroying sin.
My hoe becomes an instrument of retributive justice. I am an apostle of Nature. This view of
the matter lends a dignity to the art of hoeing which nothing else does, and lifts it into
the region of ethics. Hoeing becomes, not a pastime, but a duty. And you get to regard it so,
as the days and the weeds lengthen.

Observation.--Nevertheless, what a man needs in gardening is a cast-iron back,--with a hinge
in it. The hoe is an ingenious instrument, calculated to call out a great deal of strength
at a great disadvantage.

The striped bug has come, the saddest of the year. He is a moral double-ender, iron-clad at
that. He is unpleasant in two ways. He burrows in the ground so that you cannot find him, and
he flies away so that you cannot catch him. He is rather handsome, as bugs go, but utterly
dastardly, in that he gnaws the stem of the plant close to the ground, and ruins it without
any apparent advantage to himself. I find him on the hills of cucumbers (perhaps it will be
a cholera-year, and we shall not want any), the squashes (small loss), and the melons (which
never ripen). The best way to deal with the striped bug is to sit down by the hills, and patiently
watch for him. If you are spry, you can annoy him. This, however, takes time. It takes all
day and part of the night. For he flieth in darkness, and wasteth at noonday. If you get up
before the dew is off the plants,--it goes off very early,--you can sprinkle soot on the plant
(soot is my panacea: if I can get the disease of a plant reduced to the necessity of soot,
I am all right) and soot is unpleasant to the bug. But the best thing to do is to set a toad
to catch the bugs. The toad at once establishes the most intimate relations with the bug. It
is a pleasure to see such unity among the lower animals. The difficulty is to make the toad
stay and watch the hill. If you know your toad, it is all right. If you do not, you must build
a tight fence round the plants, which the toad cannot jump over. This, however, introduces
a new element. I find that I have a zoological garden on my hands. It is an unexpected result
of my little enterprise, which never aspired to the completeness of the Paris "Jardin des Plantes."

FOURTH WEEK

Orthodoxy is at a low ebb. Only two clergymen accepted my offer to come and help hoe my potatoes
for the privilege of using my vegetable total-depravity figure about the snake-grass, or quack-grass
as some call it; and those two did not bring hoes. There seems to be a lack of disposition
to hoe among our educated clergy. I am bound to say that these two, however, sat and watched
my vigorous combats with the weeds, and talked most beautifully about the application of the
snake-grass figure. As, for instance, when a fault or sin showed on the surface of a man, whether,
if you dug down, you would find that it ran back and into the original organic bunch of original
sin within the man. The only other clergyman who came was from out of town,--a half Universalist,
who said he wouldn't give twenty cents for my figure. He said that the snake-grass was not
in my garden originally, that it sneaked in under the sod, and that it could be entirely rooted
out with industry and patience. I asked the Universalist-inclined man to take my hoe and try
it; but he said he had n't time, and went away.

But, jubilate, I have got my garden all hoed the first time! I feel as if I had put down the
rebellion. Only there are guerrillas left here and there, about the borders and in corners,
unsubdued,--Forrest docks, and Quantrell grass, and Beauregard pig-weeds. This first hoeing
is a gigantic task: it is your first trial of strength with the never-sleeping forces of Nature.
Several times, in its progress, I was tempted to do as Adam did, who abandoned his garden on
account of the weeds. (How much my mind seems to run upon Adam, as if there had been only two
really moral gardens,--Adam's and mine!) The only drawback to my rejoicing over the finishing
of the first hoeing is, that the garden now wants hoeing the second time. I suppose, if my
garden were planted in a perfect circle, and I started round it with a hoe, I should never
see an opportunity to rest. The fact is, that gardening is the old fable of perpetual labor;
and I, for one, can never forgive Adam Sisyphus, or whoever it was, who let in the roots of
discord. I had pictured myself sitting at eve, with my family, in the shade of twilight, contemplating
a garden hoed. Alas! it is a dream not to be realized in this world.

My mind has been turned to the subject of fruit and shade trees in a garden. There are those
who say that trees shade the garden too much, and interfere with the growth of the vegetables.
There may be something in this: but when I go down the potato rows, the rays of the sun glancing
upon my shining blade, the sweat pouring from my face, I should be grateful for shade. What
is a garden for? The pleasure of man. I should take much more pleasure in a shady garden. Am
I to be sacrificed, broiled, roasted, for the sake of the increased vigor of a few vegetables?
The thing is perfectly absurd. If I were rich, I think I would have my garden covered with
an awning, so that it would be comfortable to work in it. It might roll up and be removable,
as the great awning of the Roman Coliseum was,--not like the Boston one, which went off in
a high wind. Another very good way to do, and probably not so expensive as the awning, would
be to have four persons of foreign birth carry a sort of canopy over you as you hoed. And there
might be a person at each end of the row with some cool and refreshing drink. Agriculture is
still in a very barbarous stage. I hope to live yet to see the day when I can do my gardening,
as tragedy is done, to slow and soothing music, and attended by some of the comforts I have
named. These things come so forcibly into my mind sometimes as I work, that perhaps, when a
wandering breeze lifts my straw hat, or a bird lights on a near currant-bush, and shakes out
a full-throated summer song, I almost expect to find the cooling drink and the hospitable entertainment
at the end of the row. But I never do. There is nothing to be done but to turn round, and hoe
back to the other end.

Speaking of those yellow squash-bugs, I think I disheartened them by covering the plants so
deep with soot and wood-ashes that they could not find them; and I am in doubt if I shall ever
see the plants again. But I have heard of another defense against the bugs. Put a fine wire-screen
over each hill, which will keep out the bugs and admit the rain. I should say that these screens
would not cost much more than the melons you would be likely to get from the vines if you bought
them; but then think of the moral satisfaction of watching the bugs hovering over the screen,
seeing, but unable to reach the tender plants within. That is worth paying for.

I left my own garden yesterday, and went over to where Polly was getting the weeds out of one
of her flower-beds. She was working away at the bed with a little hoe. Whether women ought
to have the ballot or not (and I have a decided opinion on that point, which I should here
plainly give, did I not fear that it would injure my agricultural influence), 'I am compelled
to say that this was rather helpless hoeing. It was patient, conscientious, even pathetic hoeing;
but it was neither effective nor finished. When completed, the bed looked somewhat as if a
hen had scratched it: there was that touching unevenness about it. I think no one could look
at it and not be affected. To be sure, Polly smoothed it off with a rake, and asked me if it
was n't nice; and I said it was. It was not a favorable time for me to explain the difference
between puttering hoeing, and the broad, free sweep of the instrument, which kills the weeds,
spares the plants, and loosens the soil without leaving it in holes and hills. But, after all,
as life is constituted, I think more of Polly's honest and anxious care of her plants than
of the most finished gardening in the world. I am entirely aware of the value of words, and
of moral obligations. When I say that the asparagus had grown six feet in seven days, I expect
and wish to be believed. I am a little particular about the statement; for, if there is any
prize offered for asparagus at the next agricultural fair, I wish to compete,--speed to govern.
What I claim is the fastest asparagus. As for eating purposes, I have seen better. A neighbor
of mine, who looked in at the growth of the bed, said, "Well, he'd be -----": but I told him
there was no use of affirming now; he might keep his oath till I wanted it on the asparagus
affidavit. In order to have this sort of asparagus, you want to manure heavily in the early
spring, fork it in, and top-dress (that sounds technical) with a thick layer of chloride of
sodium: if you cannot get that, common salt will do, and the neighbors will never notice whether
it is the orthodox Na. Cl. 58-5, or not.

I scarcely dare trust myself to speak of the weeds. They grow as if the devil was in them.
I know a lady, a member of the church, and a very good sort of woman, considering the subject
condition of that class, who says that the weeds work on her to that extent, that, in going
through her garden, she has the greatest difficulty in keeping the ten commandments in anything
like an unfractured condition. I asked her which one, but she said, all of them: one felt like
breaking the whole lot. The sort of weed which I most hate (if I can be said to hate anything
which grows in my own garden) is the "pusley," a fat, ground-clinging, spreading, greasy thing,
and the most propagatious (it is not my fault if the word is not in the dictionary) plant I
know. I saw a Chinaman, who came over with a returned missionary, and pretended to be converted,
boil a lot of it in a pot, stir in eggs, and mix and eat it with relish,--"Me likee he." It
will be a good thing to keep the Chinamen on when they come to do our gardening. I only fear
they will cultivate it at the expense of the strawberries and melons. Who can say that other
weeds, which we despise, may not be the favorite food of some remote people or tribe? We ought
to abate our conceit. It is possible that we destroy in our gardens that which is really of
most value in some other place. Perhaps, in like manner, our faults and vices are virtues in
some remote planet. I cannot see, however, that this thought is of the slightest value to us
here, any more than weeds are.

There is another subject which is forced upon my notice. I like neighbors, and I like chickens;
but I do not think they ought to be united near a garden. Neighbors' hens in your garden are
an annoyance. Even if they did not scratch up the corn, and peck the strawberries, and eat
the tomatoes, it is not pleasant to see them straddling about in their jerky, high-stepping,
speculative manner, picking inquisitively here and there. It is of no use to tell the neighbor
that his hens eat your tomatoes: it makes no impression on him, for the tomatoes are not his.
The best way is to casually remark to him that he has a fine lot of chickens, pretty well grown,
and that you like spring chickens broiled. He will take them away at once.

The neighbors' small children are also out of place in your garden, in strawberry and currant
time. I hope I appreciate the value of children. We should soon come to nothing without them,
though the Shakers have the best gardens in the world. Without them the common school would
languish. But the problem is, what to do with them in a garden. For they are not good to eat,
and there is a law against making away with them. The law is not very well enforced, it is
true; for people do thin them out with constant dosing, paregoric, and soothing-syrups, and
scanty clothing. But I, for one, feel that it would not be right, aside from the law, to take
the life, even of the smallest child, for the sake of a little fruit, more or less, in the
garden. I may be wrong; but these are my sentiments, and I am not ashamed of them. When we
come, as Bryant says in his "Iliad," to leave the circus of this life, and join that innumerable
caravan which moves, it will be some satisfaction to us, that we have never, in the way of
gardening, disposed of even the humblest child unnecessarily. My plan would be to put them
into Sunday-schools more thoroughly, and to give the Sunday-schools an agricultural turn; teaching
the children the sacredness of neighbors' vegetables. I think that our Sunday-schools do not
sufficiently impress upon children the danger, from snakes and otherwise, of going into the
neighbors' gardens.

SIXTH WEEK

Somebody has sent me a new sort of hoe, with the wish that I should speak favorably of it,
if I can consistently. I willingly do so, but with the understanding that I am to be at liberty
to speak just as courteously of any other hoe which I may receive. If I understand religious
morals, this is the position of the religious press with regard to bitters and wringing-machines.
In some cases, the responsibility of such a recommendation is shifted upon the wife of the
editor or clergy-man. Polly says she is entirely willing to make a certificate, accompanied
with an affidavit, with regard to this hoe; but her habit of sitting about the garden walk,
on an inverted flower-pot, while I hoe, some what destroys the practical value of her testimony.

As to this hoe, I do not mind saying that it has changed my view of the desirableness and value
of human life. It has, in fact, made life a holiday to me. It is made on the principle that
man is an upright, sensible, reasonable being, and not a groveling wretch. It does away with
the necessity of the hinge in the back. The handle is seven and a half feet long. There are
two narrow blades, sharp on both edges, which come together at an obtuse angle in front; and
as you walk along with this hoe before you, pushing and pulling with a gentle motion, the weeds
fall at every thrust and withdrawal, and the slaughter is immediate and widespread. When I
got this hoe I was troubled with sleepless mornings, pains in the back, kleptomania with regard
to new weeders; when I went into my garden I was always sure to see something. In this disordered
state of mind and body I got this hoe. The morning after a day of using it I slept perfectly
and late. I regained my respect for the eighth commandment. After two doses of the hoe in the
garden, the weeds entirely disappeared. Trying it a third morning, I was obliged to throw it
over the fence in order to save from destruction the green things that ought to grow in the
garden. Of course, this is figurative language. What I mean is, that the fascination of using
this hoe is such that you are sorely tempted to employ it upon your vegetables, after the weeds
are laid low, and must hastily withdraw it, to avoid unpleasant results. I make this explanation,
because I intend to put nothing into these agricultural papers that will not bear the strictest
scientific investigation; nothing that the youngest child cannot understand and cry for; nothing
that the oldest and wisest men will not need to study with care.

I need not add that the care of a garden with this hoe becomes the merest pastime. I would
not be without one for a single night. The only danger is, that you may rather make an idol
of the hoe, and somewhat neglect your garden in explaining it, and fooling about with it. I
almost think that, with one of these in the hands of an ordinary day-laborer, you might see
at night where he had been working.

