Joel chuckled. "Aye, the smell sticks," he agreed. "But you'll be used to it soon, Priss. You'll
come to like it, I'm thinking. Any case, we'll not be rid of it while the cruise is on."

She was so angry that she wanted to cry. "Do you actually mean, Joel Shore, that I've got to
live with that sickening, hot-oil smell for th-three years?"

He nodded slowly. "Yes, Priss. No way out of it. It's part of the work. Come another month,
and you'll not mind at all."

She said positively: "I may not say anything, but I shall always hate that smell."

His eyes twinkled slowly; and she stamped her foot. "If I'd known it was going to be like this,
I wouldn't have come, Joel. Now don't you laugh at me. If there was any way to go back, I'd
go. I hate it. I hate it all. You ought not to have brought me...."

They were on the broad bench across the stern, in their cabin; and he put his big arm about
her shoulders and laughed at her till she could do no less than laugh back at him. But--she
assured herself of this--she was angry, just the same. Nevertheless, she laughed....

Joel had put the Nathan Ross on the most direct southward course, touching neither Azores nor
Cape Verdes. For it was in his mind, as he had told Asa Worthen, to make direct for the Gilbert
Islands and seek some trace of his brother there. That had been his plan before he left port;
but the plan had become determination after a word with Aaron Burnham, one day. Joel, resting
in the cabin while old Aaron worked there, fell to thinking of his brother, and so asked:

"Aaron, what is your belief about my brother, Mark Shore? Is he dead?"

Aaron was building, that day, the forward partition of the new cabin, fitting his boards meticulously,
and driving home each nail with hammer strokes that seemed smooth and effortless, yet sank
the nail to the head in an instant. He looked up over his shoulder at Joel, between nails.

"Dead, d'ye say?" he countered quizzically.

Joel nodded. "The Islanders? Did they do it, do you believe?"

Old Aaron chuckled asthmatically. He had lost a fore tooth, and the effect of his mirth was
not reassuring. "There's a brew i' the Islands," he said. "More like 'twas the island brew
nor the island men."

Joel, for a moment, sat very still and considered. He knew Mark Shore had never scrupled to
take strong drink when he chose; but Mark had always been a strong man to match his drink,
and conquer it. Said Joel, therefore, after a space of thought:

"Why do you think that, Aaron? Drink was never like to carry Mark away."

Aaron squinted up at him. "Have ye sampled that island brew? 'Tis made of pineapples, or sago,
or the like outlandish stuff, I've heard. And one sip is deviltry, and two is madness, and
three is corruption. Some stomachs are used to it; they can handle it. But a raw man...."

There was significance in the pause, and the unfinished sentence. Joel considered the matter.
There had always been, between him and Mark, something of that sleeping enmity that so often
arises between brothers. Mark was a man swift of tongue, flashing, and full of laughter and
hot blood; a colorful man, like a splash of pigment on white canvas. Joel was in all things
his opposite, quiet, and slow of thought and speech, and steady of gait. Mark was accustomed
to jeer at him, to taunt him; and Joel, in the slow fashion of slow men, had resented this.
Nevertheless, he cast aside prejudice now in his estimate of the situation; and he asked old Aaron:

"Do you know there were Islanders about? Or this wild brew you speak of?"

Aaron drove home a nail, and with his punch set it flush with the soft wood. "There was some
drunken crew, shouting and screeching a mile up the beach," he said. "Some few of them came
off to us with fruit. The sober ones. 'Twas them Mark Shore went to pandander with."

"He went to them?" Joel echoed. Aaron nodded.

"Aye. That he did."

There was a long moment of silence before Joel asked huskily: "But was it like that he should
stay with them freely?" For it is a black and shameful thing that a captain should desert his
ship. When he had asked the question, he waited in something like fear for the carpenter's answer.

"It comes to me," said Aaron slowly at last, "that you did not well know your brother. Ye'd
only seen him ashore. And--I'm doubting that you knew all the circumstances of his departure
from this ship."

"I know that he went ashore," said Joel. "Went ashore, and left his men, and departed; and
I know that they searched for him three weeks without a sign."

Aaron sat back on his heels, and rubbed the smooth head of his hammer thoughtfully against
his dry old cheek. "I'm not one to speak harm," he said. "And I've said naught, in the town.
But--you have some right to know that Mark Shore was not a sober man when he left the ship.
I' truth, he had not been sober--cold sober--for a week. And he left with a bottle in his coat."
He nodded his gray old head, eyes not on Joel, but on the hammer in his hand. "Also, there
was a pearling schooner in the lagoon, with drunk white men aboard."

He glanced sidewise at Joel then, and saw the Captain's cheek bones slowly whiten. Whereupon
old Aaron bent swiftly to his task, half fearful of what he had said. But when Joel spoke,
it was only to say quietly:

"Asa should have told me this."

Aaron shook his head vehemently, but without looking up from his task. "Not so," he said. "There
was no need the town should chew Mark's name. Better--" He glanced at Joel. "Better if he were
thought dead. Asa's a good man, you mind. And--he knew your father."

Joel nodded at that. "Asa meant wisest, I've no doubt," he agreed. "But--Mark would do nothing
that he was shamed of."

"Mark Shore," said Aaron thoughtfully, "did many things without shame for which other men would
have blushit."

Joel said curtly: "Aaron, ye'll say no more such things as that."

"Ye're right," Aaron agreed. "I should no have said it. But--'tis so."

Joel left him and went on deck, and his eyes were troubled.... Priss was there, with Dick Morrell
showing her some trick of the wheel, and they were laughing together like children. Joel felt
immensely older than Priss.... Yet the difference was scarce six years.... She saw him, and
left Morrell and came running to Joel's side. "Did you sleep?" she asked. "You needed rest, Joe."

"I rested," he told her, smiling faintly. "I'll be fine...."

V

They drifted past Pernambuco, and touched at Trinidad, and so worked south and somewhat westward
for Cape Horn. And in Joel grew, stronger and ever, the resolve to hunt out Mark, and find
him, and fetch him home.... The blood tie was strong on Joel; stronger than any memory of Mark's
derision. And--for the honor of the House of Shore, it were well to prove the matter, if Mark
were dead. It is not well for a Shore to abandon his ship in strange seas.

He asked Aaron, two weeks after their first talk, whether they had questioned the white men
on the pearling schooner.

"Oh, aye," said Aaron cheerfully. "I sought 'em out, myself. Three of them, they was; and ill-favored.
A slinky small man, and a rat-eyed large man, and a fat man in between; all unshaven, and filthy,
and drunken as owls. They'd seen naught of Mark Shore, they said. I'm thinking he'd let them
see but little of him. He had no tenderness for dirt."

Joel told Priss nothing of what he hoped and feared; nor did he question Jim Finch in the matter.
Finch was a good man at set tasks, but he was too amiable, and he had no clamp upon his lips....
Joel did not wish the word to go abroad among the men. He was glad that most of the crew were
new since last voyage; but the officers were unchanged, save that he stood in his brother's shoes.

They left Trinidad behind them, and shouldered their way southward, the blunt bow of the Nathan
Ross battering the seas. And they came to the Straits, and worked in, and made their westing
day by day, while little Priss, wide-eyed on the deck, watched the gaunt cliffs past whose
wave-gnawed feet they stole. And so at last the Pacific opened out before them, and they caught
the winds, and worked toward Easter Island.

But their progress was slow. To men unschooled in the patience of the whaling trade, it would
have been insufferably slow. For they struck fish; and day after day they hung idle on the
waves while the trypots boiled; and day after day they loitered on good whaling grounds, when
the boats were out thrice and four times between sun's rise and set. If Joel was impatient,
he gave no sign. If his desires would have made him hasten on, his duty held him here, where
rich catches waited for the taking; and while there were fish to be taken, he would not leave
them behind.

Priscilla hated it. She hated the grime, and the smoke, and the smell of boiling oil; and she
hated this dawdling on the open seas, with never a glimpse of land. More than once she made
Joel bear the brunt of her own unrest; and because it is not always good for two people to
be too much together, and because she had nothing better to do, she began to pick Joel to pieces
in her thoughts, and fret at his patience and stolidity. She wished he would grow angry, wished
even that he might be angry with her.... She wished for anything to break the long days of
deadly calm. And she watched Joel more intently than it is well for wife to watch husband,
or for husband to watch wife.

He did so many things that tried her sore. He had a fashion, when he had finished eating, of
setting his hands against the table and pushing himself back from the board with slow and solid
satisfaction. She came to the point where she longed to scream when he did this. When they
were at table in the main cabin, she watched with such agony of trembling nerves for that movement
of his that she forgot to eat, and could not relish what she ate.

Joel was a man, and his life was moving smoothly. His ship's casks were filling more swiftly
than he had any right to hope; his wife was at his side; his skies were clear. He was happy,
and comfortable, and well content. Sometimes, when they were preparing for sleep, at night,
in the cabin at the stern, he would relax on the couch there. But she did not wish for him
to put his feet upon the cushions; she said that his shoes were dirty. He offered to take off
his shoes; and she shuddered....

He had a fashion of stretching and yawning comfortably as he bade her good night; and sometimes
a yawn caught him in the middle of a word, and he talked while he yawned. She hated this. She
was passing through that hard middle ground, that purgatory between maidenhood and wifehood
in the course of which married folk find each other only human, after all. And she had not
yet come to accept this condition, and to glory in it. She had always thought of Joel as a
hero, a protector, a fine, stalwart, able, noble man. Now she forgot that he was commander
of this ship and master of the men aboard her, and saw in him only a man who, when work was
done, liked to take his ease--and who talked through his yawns.

She gnawed at this bone of discontent, in the hours when Joel was busy with his work. She was
furiously resentful of Joel's flesh-and-bloodness.... And Joel, because he was too busy to
be introspective, continued calmly happy and content.

The whales led them past Easter Island for a space; and then, abruptly, they were gone. Came
day on day when the men at the masthead saw no misty spout against the wide blue of the sea,
no glistening black body lying awash among the waves. And the Nathan Ross, with all hands scrubbing
white the decks again, bent northward, working toward that maze of tiny islands which dots
the wide South Seas.

Their water was getting stale, and running somewhat low; and they needed fresh foodstuffs.
Joel planned to touch at the first land that offered. Tubuai, that would be. He marked their
progress on the chart.

On the evening before they would reach the island, when Joel and Priss were preparing for sleep,
Priss burst out furiously, like a teapot that boils over. The storm came without warning, and--so
far as Joel could see--without provocation. She was sick, she said, of the endless wastes of
blue. She wanted to see land. To step on it. If she were not allowed to do so very soon, she
would die.

Joel, at first, was minded to tell her they would sight land in the morning; then, with one
of the blundering impulses to which husbands fall victim at such moments, he decided to wait
and surprise her. So, instead of telling her, he chuckled as though at some secret jest, and
tried to quiet her by patting her dark head.

She fell silent at his caress; and Joel thought she was appeased. As a matter of fact, she
was hating him for having laughed at her; and her calm was ferocious. He discovered this, too
late....

He had just kissed her good night. She turned her cheek to his lips; and he was faintly hurt
at this. But he only said cheerfully: "There, Priss.... You'll be all right in the morning...."

He yawned in mid-sentence, so that the last two or three words sounded as though he were trying
to swallow a large and hot potato while he uttered them. Priss could stand no more of that.
Positively. So she slapped his face.

He was amazed; and he stood, looking at her helplessly, while the slapped cheek grew red and
red. Priss burst into tears, stamped her foot, called him names she did not mean, and as a
climax, darted into her own cabin, and swung the door, and snapped the latch.

Joel did not in the least understand; and he went to his bunk at last, profoundly troubled.

An hour after they anchored, the next day, at Tubuai, a boat came out from shore and ran alongside,
and Mark Shore swung across the rail, aboard the Nathan Ross.

VI

Joel was below, in the cabin with Priss, when his brother boarded the ship. Varde and Dick
Morrell had gone ashore for water and supplies, and Priss was to go that afternoon, with Joel.
She was sewing a ribbon rosette upon the hat she would wear, when she and Joel heard the sound
of excited voices, and the movement of feet on the deck above their head. He left her, curled
up on the cushioned bench, with the gay ribbon in her hands, and went out through the main
cabin, and up the companion. He had been trying, clumsily enough, to make friends with Priss;
but she was very much on her dignity that morning....

When his head rose above the level of the cabin skylight, he saw a group of men near the rail,
amidships. Finch, and Hooper, and old Aaron Burnham, and two of the harpooners, all pressing
close about another man.... Finch obscured this other man from Joel's view, until he climbed
up on deck. Then he saw that the other man was his brother.

He went forward to join them; and it chanced that at first no one of them looked in his direction.
Mark's back was half-turned; but Joel could see that his brother was lean, and bronzed by the
sun. And he wore no hat, and his thick, black hair was rumpled and wild. The white shirt that
he wore was open at the throat above his brown neck. His arms were bare to the elbows. His
chest was like a barrel. There was a splendor of strength and vigor about the man, in the very
look of him, and in his eye, and his voice, and his laughter. He seemed to shine, like the sun....

Joel, as he came near them, heard Mark laugh throatily at something Finch had said; and he
heard Finch say unctuously: "Be sure, Captain Shore, every man aboard here is damned glad you've
come back to us. You were missed, missed sore, sir."

Mark laughed again, at that; and he clapped Jim's fat shoulder. The action swung him around
so that he saw Joel for the first time. Joel thrust out his hand.

"Mark, man! They said you were dead," he exclaimed.

Mark Shore's eyes narrowed for an instant, in a quick, appraising scrutiny of his brother.
"Dead?" he laughed, jeeringly. "Do I look dead?" He stared at Joel more closely, glanced at
the other men, and chuckled. "By the Lord, kid," he cried, "I believe old Asa has put you in
my shoes."

Joel nodded. "He gave me command of the Nathan Ross. Yes."

Mark looked sidewise at big Jim Finch, and grinned. "Over your head, eh, Jim? Too damned bad!"

Finch grinned. "I had no wish for the place, sir. You see, I felt very sure you would be coming
back to your own."

Mark tilted back his head and laughed. "You were always a very cautious man, Jim Finch. Never
jumped till you were sure where you would land." He wheeled on Joel. "Well, boy--how does it
feel to wear long pants?"

Joel, holding his anger in check, said slowly: "We've done well. Close on eight hundred barrel
aboard."

Mark wagged his head in solemn reproof. "Joey, Joey, you've been fiddling away your time. I
can see that!"

Over his brother's shoulder, Joel saw the grinning face of big Jim Finch, and his eyes hardened.
He said quietly: "If that's your tone, Mark, you'll call back your boat and go ashore."

A flame surged across Mark's cheek; and he took one swift, terrible step toward his brother.
But Joel did not give ground; and after a moment in which their eyes clashed like swords, Mark
relaxed, and laughed and bowed low.

"I was wrong, grievously wrong, Captain Shore," he said sonorously. "I neglected the respect
due your office. Your high office, sir. I thank you for reminding me of the--the proprieties,
Captain." And he added, in a different tone, "Now will you not invite me aft on your ship, sir?"

Joel hesitated for a bare instant, caught by a vague foreboding that he could not explain.
But in the end he nodded, as though in answer to the unspoken question in his thoughts. "Will
you come down into the cabin, Mark?" he invited quietly. "I've much to ask you; and you must
have many things to tell."

Mark nodded. "I will come," he said; and his eyes lighted suddenly, and he dropped a hand on
Joel's shoulder. "Aye, Joel," he said softly, into his brother's ear, as they went aft together.
"Aye, I've much to tell. Many things and marvelous. Matters you'd scarce credit, Joel." Joel
looked at him quickly, and Mark nodded. "True they are, Joel," he cried exultantly. "Marvelous--and
true as good, red gold."

At the tone, and the eager light in his brother's eyes, Joel's slow pulses quickened, but he
said nothing. At the top of the cabin companion, he stepped aside to let Mark descend first;
and Mark went down the steep and awkward stair with the easy, sliding gait of a great cat.
Joel, behind him, could see the muscles stir and swell upon his shoulders. In the cabin, Mark
halted abruptly, and looked about, and exclaimed: "You've changed things, Joel. I'd not know
the ship."

The door into Priscilla's cabin, across the stern, was open. Priss had finished that matter
of the ribbon, and was watering her flowers, kneeling on the bench, when she heard Mark's voice,
and knew it. And she cried, in surprise and joy: "Mark! Oh--Mark!" And she ran to the door,
and stood there, framed for Mark's eyes against the light behind her, hands holding to the
door frame on either side.

Mark cried delightedly: "Priss Holt!" And he was at her side in an instant, and caught her
without ceremony, and kissed her roundly, as he had been accustomed to do when he came home
from the sea. But he must have been a blind man not to have seen in that first moment that
Priss was no longer child, but woman. And Mark was not blind. He kissed her till she laughingly
fought herself free.

"Mark!" she cried again. "You're not dead. I knew you couldn't be...."

Joel, behind them, at sight of Priscilla in his brother's arms, had stirred with a quick rush
of anger; but he was ashamed of it in the next moment, and stood still where he was. Mark held
Priss by the shoulders, laughing down at her.

"And how did you know I couldn't be dead?" he demanded. "Miss Wise Lady."

She moved her head confusedly. "Oh--you were always so--so alive, or something.... You just
couldn't be...."

He chuckled, released her, and stood away and surveyed her. "Priss, Priss," he said contritely,
"you're not a little kid any longer. Dresses down, and hair up...." He wagged his head. "It's
a wonder you did not slap my face." And then he looked from her to Joel, and abruptly he tossed
his great head back and laughed aloud. "By the Lord," he roared. "The children are married.
Married...."

Priscilla flushed furiously, and stamped her foot at him. "Of course we're married," she cried.
"Did you think I'd come clear around the world with...." Her words were smothered in her own
hot blushes, and Mark laughed again, until she cried: "Stop it. I won't have you laughing at
us. Joel--make him stop!"

Mark sobered instantly, and he backed away from Joel in mock panic, both hands raised, defensively,
so that they laughed at him. When they laughed, he cast aside his panic, and sat down on the
cushions, stretching his legs luxuriously before him. "Now," he exclaimed. "Tell me all about
it. When, and why, and how?"

Priss dropped on the bench beside him, feet tucked under her in the miraculous fashion of small
women; and she enumerated her answers on the pink tips of her fingers. "When?" she repeated.
"The day before we sailed. Why? Just because. How? In the same old way." She waved her hand,
as though disposing of the matter once and for all, and looked up at him, and laughed. Joel
thought she had not seemed so completely happy since the day the cabin was finished. "So,"
she said, "that's all there is to tell you about us. Tell us about you."

Mark's eyes twinkled. "Ah, now, what's the use? That will come later. Besides--some chapters
are not for gentle ears." He nodded toward Joel. "So you love the boy, yonder?"

Priss bobbed her head, red lips pursed, eyes dancing.

"Why?" Mark demanded. "What do you discover in him?"

She looked at Joel, and they laughed together as though at some delightful secret, mutually
shared. Mark wagged his head dolorously. "And I suppose he's wild about you?" he asked.

She nodded more vigorously than ever.

Mark rubbed his hands together. He looked at Joel, with a faintly malicious twinkle in his
eyes. "Well, now!" he exclaimed. "That is certainly the best of news...." Joel saw the mocking
and malignant little devil in his eye. "I've never had a kid sister," said Mark gayly. "And
it's been the great sorrow of my life, Priss. So, Joel, you must expect Priss and myself to
turn out the very best of friends."

And Priscilla, on the seat beside him, nodded her lovely head once more. "I should say so,"
she exclaimed.

VII

Mark Shore held something like a reception, on the Nathan Ross, all that first day. He went
forward among the men to greet old friends and meet new ones, and came back and complimented
Joel on the quality of his crew. "You've made good men of them," he said. "Those that weren't
good men before."

He listened, with a smile half contemptuous, to Jim Finch's somewhat slavish phrases of welcome
and admiration; and he talked with Varde, the morose second mate, so gayly that even Varde
was cozened at last into a grin. Old Hooper was pathetically glad to see him. Hooper had been
mate of the ship on which Mark started out as a boy; and he liked to hark back to those days.
Young Dick Morrell, on his trips from the shore, gave Mark frank worship.

Joel saw all this. He could not help seeing it. And he told himself, again and again, that
it was only to be expected. Mark had captained this ship, had captained these men, on their
last cruise; they had thought him dead. It was only natural that they should welcome him back
to life again....

But even while he gave himself this reassurance, he knew that it was untrue. There was more
than mere welcome in the attitude of the men; there was more than admiration. There was a quality
of awe that was akin to worship; and there was, beneath this awe, a lively curiosity as to
what Mark would do.... They knew him for a quick man, dominant, one with the will to lead;
and now he found himself supplanted, dependent on the word of his own younger brother.... Every
one knew that Mark and Joel had always been rather enemies than comrades; so, now, they wondered,
and waited, and watched with all their eyes. Joel saw them, by twos and threes, whispering
together about the ship; and he knew what it was they were asking each other.

Of all those on the Nathan Ross that day, Mark himself seemed least conscious of the dramatic
possibilities of the situation. He was glad to be back among friends; but beyond that he did
not go. He gave Joel an exaggerated measure of respect, so extreme that it was worse than scorn
or mockery. Otherwise, he took no notice of the potentialities created by his return.

Priss had planned to go ashore in the afternoon; but Mark dissuaded her. This was not difficult;
he did it so laughingly and so dextrously that Priss changed her mind without knowing just
why she did so. Mark took it upon himself to make up for her disappointment; they were together
most of the long, hot afternoon. Joel could hear their laughter now and then.

He had expected to go ashore with Priss; but when she came to him and said: "Joel, Mark says
it's just dirty and hot and ugly, ashore, and I'm not going," he changed his mind. There was
no need of his making the trip, after all. Varde and Morrell had brought out water, towing
long strings of almost-filled casks behind their boats; and boats from the shore had come off
to sell fresh food. So at dusk, the anchor came up, and the Nathan Ross spread her dingy sails,
and stalked out of the harbor with the utmost dignity in every stiff line of her, and the night
behind them swallowed up the island. Mark and Priss were astern to watch it blend in the darkness
and lose itself; and Priss, when their last glimpse of it faded, heard the man draw a deep
breath of something like relief. She looked up at him with wide, curious eyes.

"What is it?" she asked softly. "Were you--unhappy there?"

Mark laughed aloud. "My dear Priss," he said, in the elder-brother manner he affected toward
her. "My dear Priss, the South Sea Islands are no place for a white man, especially when he
is alone. I'm glad to get back in the smell of oil, with an honest deck underfoot. And I don't
mind saying so."

Priss shuddered, and wrinkled her nose. "Ugh, how I hate that smell," she exclaimed. "But,
Mark--tell me where you've been, and what you did, and--everything. Why won't you tell?"

He wagged his head at her severely. "Children," he said, "should be seen and not heard."

She stamped her foot. "I'm not a child. I'm a woman."

He bent toward her suddenly, his dark eyes so close to hers that she could see the flickering
flame which played in them, and the twist of his smile. "I wonder!" he whispered. "Oh--I wonder
if you are...."

She was frightened, deliciously....

Mark had persisted, all day long, in his refusal to tell her of himself. He had dropped a sentence
now and then that brought to life in her imagination a strange, wild picture.... But always
he set a bar upon his lips, caught back the words, refused to explain what it was he had meant
to say. When she persisted, he laughed at her and told her he only did it to be mysterious.
"Mystery is always interesting, you understand," he explained. "And--I wish to be very interesting
to you, Priss."

She looked around the after deck for Joel; but he was below in the cabin, and she decided,
abruptly, that she must go down....

They had bought chickens at Tubuai, and they had two of them, boiled, for supper that night
in the cabin. It was a feast, after the long months of sober diet; and the presence of Mark
made it something more. He was a good talker, and without revealing anything of the months
of his disappearance, he nevertheless told them stories that held each one breathless with
interest. But after supper, he went on deck with Finch, and Joel and Priss sat in the cabin
astern for a while; and Joel wrote up, in the ship's log, the story of his brother's return.
Priss read it over his shoulder, and afterwards she clung close to Joel. "He's a terribly--overwhelming
man, isn't he?" she whispered.

Joel looked down at her, and smiled thoughtfully. "Aye, Mark's a big man," he agreed. "Big--in
many ways. But--you'll be used to him presently, Priss."

When she prepared to go to bed, he bade her good night and left her, and went on deck; and
Priss, in her narrow bunk in the cabin at the side of the ship, lay wide-eyed with many thoughts
stirring in her small head. She was still awake when she heard them come down into the main
cabin together, Joel and Mark. The walls were thin; she could hear their words, and she heard
Mark ask: "Sure Priss is asleep? There are parts--not for the pretty ears of a bride, Joel."

Priss was not asleep, but when Joel came to see, she closed her eyes, and lay as still as still,
scarce breathing. Joel bent over her softly; and he touched her head, clumsily, with his hand,
and patted it, and went away again, closing her door behind him. She heard him tell Mark: "Aye,
she's fast asleep."

The brothers sat by Joel's desk, in the cabin across the stern; and Mark, without preamble,
told his story there. Priss, ten feet away, heard every word; and she lay huddled beneath the
blankets, eyes staring upward into the darkness of her cabin; and as she listened, she shuddered
and trembled and shrank at the terror and wonder and ugliness of the tale he told. No Desdemona
ever listened with such half-caught breath....

VIII

"You're blaming me," said Mark, when he and Joel were puffing at their pipes, "for leaving
my ship."

Joel said slowly: "No. But I do not understand it."

Mark laughed, a soft and throaty laugh. "You would not, Joel. You would not. For you never
felt an overwhelming notion that you must dance in the moon upon the sand. You've never felt
that, Joel; and--I have."

"I'm not a hand for dancing," said Joel.

Mark seemed to forget that his brother sat beside him. His eyes became misty and thoughtful,
as though he were living over again the days of which he spoke. "Mind, Joel," he said, "there's
a pagan in every man of us. And there's two pagans in some of us. And I'm minded, Joel, that
there are three of them in me. 'Twas so, that night."

"It was night when you left the ship?"

"Aye, night. Night, and the moon; and it may have been that I had been drinking a drop or two.
Also, as you shall see, I was not well. I tell these things, not by way of excuse and palliation;
but only so that you may understand. D'ye see? I was three pagans in one body, and that body
witched by moon, and twisted by drink, and trembling with fever. And so it was I went ashore,
and flung my men behind me, and went off, dancing, along the hard sand.

