So much the better for the memory of those who are chosen to represent philosophical or moral
ideas; but, once again, that is not the question. The imagination can produce just as fine
things without them; it is a power wholly creative; the imaginary beings which it animates
are endowed with life as truly as the real beings which it brings to life again.  We believe
in Othello as we do in Richard III., whose tomb is in Westminster; in Lovelace and Clarissa
as in Paul and Virginia, whose tombs are in the Isle of France.  It is with the same eye that
we must watch the performance of its characters, and demand of the Muse only her artistic Truth,
more lofty than the True--whether collecting the traits of a character dispersed among a thousand
entire individuals, she composes from them a type whose name alone is imaginary; or whether
she goes to their tomb to seek and to touch with her galvanic current the dead whose great
deeds are known, forces them to arise again, and drags them dazzled to the light of day, where,
in the circle which this fairy has traced, they re-assume unwillingly their passions of other
days, and begin again in the sight of their descendants the sad drama of life.

ALFRED DE VIGNY.

1827.

CINQ-MARS

BOOK 1.

CHAPTER I

THE ADIEU

          Fare thee well!  and if forever,
          Still forever fare thee well!

                                             LORD BYRON.

Do you know that charming part of our country which has been called the garden of France--that
spot where, amid verdant plains watered by wide streams, one inhales the purest air of heaven?

If you have travelled through fair Touraine in summer, you have no doubt followed with enchantment
the peaceful Loire; you have regretted the impossibility of determining upon which of its banks
you would choose to dwell with your beloved.  On its right bank one sees valleys dotted with
white houses surrounded by woods, hills yellow with vines or white with the blossoms of the
cherry-tree, walls covered with honeysuckles, rose- gardens, from which pointed roofs rise
suddenly.  Everything reminds the traveller either of the fertility of the land or of the antiquity
of its monuments; and everything interests him in the work of its busy inhabitants.

Nothing has proved useless to them; it seems as if in their love for so beautiful a country--the
only province of France never occupied by foreigners--they have determined not to lose the
least part of its soil, the smallest grain of its sand.  Do you fancy that this ruined tower
is inhabited only by hideous night-birds?  No; at the sound of your horse's hoofs, the smiling
face of a young girl peeps out from the ivy, whitened with the dust from the road.  If you
climb a hillside covered with vines, a light column of smoke shows you that there is a chimney
at your feet; for the very rock is inhabited, and families of vine-dressers breathe in its
caverns, sheltered at night by the kindly earth which they laboriously cultivate during the
day.  The good people of Touraine are as simple as their life, gentle as the air they breathe,
and strong as the powerful earth they dig.  Their countenances, like their characters, have
something of the frankness of the true people of St. Louis; their chestnut locks are still
long and curve around their ears, as in the stone statues of our old kings; their language
is the purest French, with neither slowness, haste, nor accent--the cradle of the language
is there, close to the cradle of the monarchy.

But the left bank of the stream has a more serious aspect; in the distance you see Chambord,
which, with its blue domes and little cupolas, appears like some great city of the Orient;
there is Chanteloup, raising its graceful pagoda in the air.  Near these a simpler building
attracts the eyes of the traveller by its magnificent situation and imposing size; it is the
chateau of Chaumont.  Built upon the highest hill of the shore, it frames the broad summit
with its lofty walls and its enormous towers; high slate steeples increase their loftiness,
and give to the building that conventual air, that religious form of all our old chateaux,
which casts an aspect of gravity over the landscape of most of our provinces. Black and tufted
trees surround this ancient mansion, resembling from afar the plumes that encircled the hat
of King Henry.  At the foot of the hill, connected with the chateau by a narrow path, lies
a pretty village, whose white houses seem to have sprung from the golden sand; a chapel stands
halfway up the hill; the lords descended and the villagers ascended to its altar-the region
of equality, situated like a neutral spot between poverty and riches, which have been too often
opposed to each other in bitter conflict.

Here, one morning in the month of June, 1639, the bell of the chateau having, as usual, rung
at midday, the dinner-hour of the family, occurrences of an unusual kind were passing in this
ancient dwelling. The numerous domestics observed that in repeating the morning prayers before
the assembled household, the Marechale d'Effiat had spoken with a broken voice and with tears
in her eyes, and that she had appeared in a deeper mourning than was customary.  The people
of the household and the Italians of the Duchesse de Mantua, who had at that time retired for
a while to Chaumont, saw with surprise that sudden preparations were being made for departure.
The old domestic of the Marechal d'Effiat (who had been dead six months) had taken again to
his travelling-boots, which he had sworn to abandon forever.  This brave fellow, named Grandchamp,
had followed the chief of the family everywhere in the wars, and in his financial work; he
had been his equerry in the former, and his secretary in the latter.  He had recently returned
from Germany, to inform the mother and the children of the death of the Marechal, whose last
sighs he had heard at Luzzelstein.  He was one of those faithful servants who are become too
rare in France; who suffer with the misfortunes of the family, and rejoice with their joys;
who approve of early marriages, that they may have young masters to educate; who scold the
children and often the fathers; who risk death for them; who serve without wages in revolutions;
who toil for their support; and who in prosperous times follow them everywhere, or exclaim
at their return, "Behold our vines!"  He had a severe and remarkable face, a coppery complexion,
and silver-gray hair, in which, however, some few locks, black as his heavy eyebrows, made
him appear harsh at first; but a gentle countenance softened this first impression.  At present
his voice was loud.  He busied himself much that day in hastening the dinner, and ordered about
all the servants, who were in mourning like himself.

"Come," said he, "make haste to serve the dinner, while Germain, Louis, and Etienne saddle
their horses; Monsieur Henri and I must be far away by eight o'clock this evening.  And you,
gentlemen, Italians, have you warned your young Princess?  I wager that she is gone to read
with her ladies at the end of the park, or on the banks of the lake.  She always comes in after
the first course, and makes every one rise from the table."

"Ah, my good Grandchamp," said in a low voice a young maid servant who was passing, "do not
speak of the Duchess; she is very sorrowful, and I believe that she will remain in her apartment.
Santa Maria!  what a shame to travel to-day!  to depart on a Friday, the thirteenth of the
month, and the day of Saint Gervais and of Saint-Protais--the day of two martyrs!  I have been
telling my beads all the morning for Monsieur de Cinq-Mars; and I could not help thinking of
these things.  And my mistress thinks of them too, although she is a great lady; so you need
not laugh!"

With these words the young Italian glided like a bird across the large dining-room, and disappeared
down a corridor, startled at seeing the great doors of the salon opened.

Grandchamp had hardly heard what she had said, and seemed to have been occupied only with the
preparations for dinner; he fulfilled the important duties of major-domo, and cast severe looks
at the domestics to see whether they were all at their posts, placing himself behind the chair
of the eldest son of the house.  Then all the inhabitants of the mansion entered the salon.
Eleven persons seated themselves at table. The Marechale came in last, giving her arm to a
handsome old man, magnificently dressed, whom she placed upon her left hand.  She seated herself
in a large gilded arm-chair at the middle of one side of the table, which was oblong in form.
Another seat, rather more ornamented, was at her right, but it remained empty.  The young Marquis
d'Effiat, seated in front of his mother, was to assist her in doing the honors of the table.
He was not more than twenty years old, and his countenance was insignificant; much gravity
and distinguished manners proclaimed, however, a social nature, but nothing more.  His young
sister of fourteen, two gentlemen of the province, three young Italian noblemen of the suite
of Marie de Gonzaga (Duchesse de Mantua), a lady-in-waiting, the governess of the young daughter
of the Marechale, and an abbe of the neighborhood, old and very deaf, composed the assembly.
A seat at the right of the elder son still remained vacant.

The Marechale, before seating herself, made the sign of the cross, and repeated the Benedicite
aloud; every one responded by making the complete sign, or upon the breast alone.  This custom
was preserved in many families in France up to the Revolution of 1789; some still practise
it, but more in the provinces than in Paris, and not without some hesitation and some preliminary
words upon the weather, accompanied by a deprecatory smile when a stranger is present--for
it is too true that virtue also has its blush.

The Marechale possessed an imposing figure, and her large blue eyes were remarkably beautiful.
She did not appear to have yet attained her forty- fifth year; but, oppressed with sorrow,
she walked slowly and spoke with difficulty, closing her eyes, and allowing her head to droop
for a moment upon her breast, after she had been obliged to raise her voice.  At such efforts
her hand pressed to her bosom showed that she experienced sharp pain.  She saw therefore with
satisfaction that the person who was seated at her left, having at the beginning engrossed
the conversation, without having been requested by any one to talk, persisted with an imperturbable
coolness in engrossing it to the end of the dinner.  This was the old Marechal de Bassompierre;
he had preserved with his white locks an air of youth and vivacity curious to see.  His noble
and polished manners showed a certain gallantry, antiquated like his costume--for he wore a
ruff in the fashion of Henri IV, and the slashed sleeves fashionable in the former reign, an
absurdity which was unpardonable in the eyes of the beaux of the court.  This would not have
appeared more singular than anything else at present; but it is admitted that in every age
we laugh at the costume of our fathers, and, except the Orientals, I know of no people who
have not this fault.

One of the Italian gentlemen had hardly finished asking the Marechal what he thought of the
way in which the Cardinal treated the daughter of the Duc de Mantua, when he exclaimed, in
his familiar language:

"Heavens, man!  what are you talking about?  what do I comprehend of this new system under
which France is living?  We old companions-in-arms of his late Majesty can ill understand the
language spoken by the new court, and that in its turn does not comprehend ours.  But what
do I say?  We speak no language in this sad country, for all the world is silent before the
Cardinal; this haughty little, vassal looks upon us as merely old family portraits, which occasionally
he shortens by the head; but happily the motto always remains.  Is it not true, my dear Puy-Laurens?"

This guest was about the same age as the Marechal, but, being more grave and cautious, he answered
in vague and few words, and made a sign to his contemporary in order to induce him to observe
the unpleasant emotions which he had caused the mistress of the house by reminding her of the
recent death of her husband and in speaking thus of the minister, his friend.  But it was in
vain, for Bassompierre, pleased with the sign of half-approval, emptied at one draught a great
goblet of wine--a remedy which he lauds in his Memoirs as infallible against the plague and
against reserve; and leaning back to receive another glass from his esquire, he settled himself
more firmly than ever upon his chair, and in his favorite ideas.

"Yes, we are in the way here; I said so the other day to my dear Duc de Guise, whom they have
ruined.  They count the minutes that we have to live, and shake the hour-glass to hasten the
descent of its sands.  When Monsieur le Cardinal-Duc observes in a corner three or four of
our tall figures, who never quitted the side of the late King, he feels that he is unable to
move those statues of iron, and that to do it would require the hand of a great man; he passes
quickly by, and dares not meddle with us, who fear him not.  He believes that we are always
conspiring; and they say at this very moment that there is talk of putting me in the Bastille."

"Eh!  Monsieur le Marechal, why do you delay your departure?"  said the Italian.  "I know of
no place, except Flanders, where you can find shelter."

"Ah, Monsieur!  you do not know me.  So far from flying, I sought out the King before his departure,
and told him that I did so in order to save people the trouble of looking for me; and that
if I knew when he wished to send me, I would go myself without being taken.  He was as kind
as I expected him to be, and said to me, 'What, my old friend, could you have thought that
I desired to send you there?  You know well that I love you.'"

"Ah, my dear Marechal, let me compliment you," said Madame d'Effiat, in a soft voice.  "I recognize
the benevolence of the King in these words; he remembers the affection which the King, his
father, had toward you.  It appears to me that he always accorded to you all that you desired
for your friends," she added, with animation, in order to put him into the track of praise,
and to beguile him from the discontent which he had so loudly declared.

"Assuredly, Madame," answered he; "no one is more willing to recognize his virtues than Francois
de Bassompierre.  I shall be faithful to him to the end, because I gave myself, body and fortune,
to his father at a ball; and I swear that, with my consent at least, none of my family shall
ever fail in their duties toward the King of France.  Although the Besteins are foreigners
and Lorrains, a shake of the hand from Henri IV gained us forever.  My greatest grief has been
to see my brother die in the service of Spain; and I have just written to my nephew to say
that I shall disinherit him if he has passed over to the Emperor, as report says he has."

One of the gentlemen guests who had as yet been silent, and who was remarkable for the profusion
of knots, ribbons, and tags which covered his dress, and for the black cordon of the Order
of St. Michael which decorated his neck, bowed, observing that it was thus all faithful subjects
ought to speak.

"I' faith, Monsieur de Launay, you deceive yourself very much," said the Marechal, to whom
the recollection of his ancestors now occurred; "persons of our blood are subjects only at
our own pleasure, for God has caused us to be born as much lords of our lands as the King is
of his. When I came to France, I came at my ease, accompanied by my gentlemen and pages.  I
perceive, however, that the farther we go, the more we lose sight of this idea, especially
at the court.  But here is a young man who arrives very opportunely to hear me."

The door indeed opened, and a young man of fine form entered.  He was pale; his hair was brown,
his eyes were black, his expression was sad and reckless.  This was Henri d'Effiat, Marquis
de Cinq-Mars (a name taken from an estate of his family).  His dress and his short cloak were
black; a collar of lace fell from his neck halfway down his breast; his stout, small, and very
wide-spurred boots made so much noise upon the flags of the salon that his approach was heard
at a distance.  He walked directly toward the Marechale, bowed low, and kissed her hand.

"Well, Henri," she said, "are your horses ready?  At what hour do you depart?"

"Immediately after dinner, Madame, if you will allow me," said he to his mother, with the ceremonious
respect of the times; and passing behind her, he saluted M. de Bassompierre before seating
himself at the left of his eldest brother.

"Well," said the Marechal, continuing to eat with an excellent appetite, "you are about to
depart, my son; you are going to the court--a slippery place nowadays.  I am sorry for your
sake that it is not now what it used to be.  In former times, the court was simply the drawing-room
of the King, in which he received his natural friends: nobles of great family, his peers, who
visited him to show their devotion and their friendship, lost their money with him, and accompanied
him in his pleasure parties, but never received anything from him, except permission to bring
their vassals with them, to break their heads in his service.  The honors a man of quality
received did not enrich him, for he paid for them out of his purse.  I sold an estate for every
grade I received; the title of colonel-general of the Swiss cost me four hundred thousand crowns,
and at the baptism of the present King I had to buy a costume that cost me a hundred thousand
francs."

"Ah!"  said the mistress of the house, smiling, "you must acknowledge for once that you were
not obliged to do that.  We have all heard of your splendid dress of pearls; but I should be
much vexed were it still the custom to wear such."

"Oh, Madame la Marquise, do not fear, those times of magnificence never will return.  We committed
follies, no doubt, but they proved our independence; it is clear that it would then have been
hard to convert from their allegiance to the King adherents who were attached to him by love
alone, and whose coronets contained as many diamonds as his own locked-up crown.  It is also
certain that ambition could not then attack all classes, since such expenses could come only
from rich hands, and since gold comes only from mines.  Those great houses, which are being
so furiously assailed, were not ambitious, and frequently, desiring no employment from the
Government, maintained their places at court by their own weight, existed upon their own foundation,
and might say, as one of them did say, 'The Prince condescends not; I am Rohan.'  It was the
same with every noble family, to which its own nobility sufficed; the King himself expressed
it in writing to one of my friends: 'Money is not a common thing between gentlemen like you
and me.'"

"But, Monsieur le Marechal," coldly, and with extreme politeness, interrupted M. de Launay,
who perhaps intended to anger him, "this independence has produced as many civil wars and revolts
as those of Monsieur de Montmorency."

"Monsieur!  I can not consent to hear these things spoken," said the fiery Marechal, leaping
up in his armchair.  "Those revolts and wars had nothing to do with the fundamental laws of
the State, and could no more have overturned the throne than a duel could have done so.  Of
all the great party-chiefs, there was not one who would not have laid his victory at the feet
of the King, had he succeeded, knowing well that all the other lords who were as great as himself
would have abandoned the enemy of the legitimate sovereign.  Arms were taken against a faction,
and not against the sovereign authority; and, this destroyed, everything went on again in the
old way.  But what have you done in crushing us?  You have crushed the arm of the throne, and
have not put anything in its place. Yes, I no longer doubt that the Cardinal-Duke will wholly
accomplish his design; the great nobility will leave and lose their lands, and, ceasing to
be great proprietors, they will cease to be a great power.  The court is already no more than
a palace where people beg; by and by it will become an antechamber, when it will be composed
only of those who constitute the suite of the King.  Great names will begin by ennobling vile
offices; but, by a terrible reaction, those offices will end by rendering great names vile.
Estranged from their homes, the nobility will be dependent upon the employments which they
shall have received; and if the people, over whom they will no longer have any influence, choose
to revolt--"

"How gloomy you are to-day, Marechal!" interrupted the Marquise; "I hope that neither I nor
my children will ever see that time.  I no longer perceive your cheerful disposition, now that
you talk like a politician. I expected to hear you give advice to my son.  Henri, what troubles
you? You seem very absent."

Cinq-Mars, with eyes fixed upon the, great bay window of the dining-room, looked sorrowfully
upon the magnificent landscape.  The sun shone in full splendor, and colored the sands of the
Loire, the trees, and the lawns with gold and emerald.  The sky was azure, the waves were of
a transparent yellow, the islets of a vivid green; behind their rounded outlines rose the great
sails of the merchant-vessels, like a fleet in ambuscade.

"O Nature, Nature!"  he mused; "beautiful Nature, farewell!  Soon will my heart cease to be
of simplicity enough to feel your charm, soon you wall no longer please my eyes.  This heart
is already burned by a deep passion; and the mention of the interests of men stirs it with
hitherto unknown agitation.  I must, however, enter this labyrinth; I may, perchance, lose
myself there, but for Marie--"

At this moment, aroused by the words of his mother, and fearing to exhibit a childish regret
at leaving his beautiful country and his family, he said:

"I am thinking, Madame, of the road which I shall take to Perpignan, and also of that which
shall bring me back to you."

"Do not forget to take that of Poitiers, and to go to Loudun to see your old tutor, our good
Abbe Quillet; he will give you useful advice about the court.  He is on very good terms with
the Duc de Bouillon; and besides, though he may not be very necessary to you, it is a mark
of deference which you owe him."

"Is it, then, to the siege of Perpignan that you are going, my boy?" asked the old Marechal,
who began to think that he had been silent a long time.  "Ah! it is well for you.  Plague upon
it!  a siege!  'tis an excellent opening.  I would have given much had I been able to assist
the late King at a siege, upon my arrival in his court; it would have been better to be disembowelled
then than at a tourney, as I was.  But we were at peace; and I was compelled to go and shoot
the Turks with the Rosworm of the Hungarians, in order that I might not afflict my family by
my idleness.  For the rest, may his Majesty receive you as kindly as his father received me!
It is true that the King is good and brave; but they have unfortunately taught him that cold
Spanish etiquette which arrests all the impulses of the heart.  He restrains himself and others
by an immovable presence and an icy look; as for me, I confess that I am always waiting for
the moment of thaw, but in vain.  We were accustomed to other manners from the witty and simple-hearted
Henri; and we were at least free to tell him that we loved him."

Cinq-Mars, with eyes fixed upon those of Bassompierre, as if to force himself to attend to
his discourse, asked him what was the manner of the late king in conversation.

"Lively and frank," said he.  "Some time after my arrival in France, I played with him and
with the Duchesse de Beaufort at Fontainebleau; for he wished, he said, to win my gold-pieces,
my fine Portugal money.  He asked me the reason why I came into this country.  'Truly, Sire,'
said I, frankly, 'I came with no intention of enlisting myself in your service, but only to
pass some time at your court, and afterward at that of Spain; but you have charmed me so much
that, instead of going farther, if you desire my service, I will devote myself to you till
death.' Then he embraced me, and assured me that I could not find a better master, or one who
would love me more.  Alas!  I have found it so.  And for my part, I sacrificed everything to
him, even my love; and I would have done more, had it been possible to do more than renounce
Mademoiselle de Montmorency."

The good Marechal had tears in his eyes; but the young Marquis d'Effiat and the Italians, looking
at one another, could not help smiling to think that at present the Princesse de Conde was
far from young and pretty. Cinq-Mars noticed this interchange of glances, and smiled also,
but bitterly.

"Is it true then," he thought, "that the affections meet the same fate as the fashions, and
that the lapse of a few years can throw the same ridicule upon a costume and upon love?  Happy
is he who does not outlive his youth and his illusions, and who carries his treasures with
him to the grave!"

But--again, with effort breaking the melancholy course of his thoughts, and wishing that the
good Marechal should read nothing unpleasant upon the countenances of his hosts, he said:

"People spoke, then, with much freedom to King Henri?  Possibly, however, he found it necessary
to assume that tone at the beginning of his reign; but when he was master did he change it?"

"Never!  no, never, to his last day, did our great King cease to be the same.  He did not blush
to be a man, and he spoke to men with force and sensibility.  Ah!  I fancy I see him now, embracing
the Duc de Guise in his carriage, on the very day of his death; he had just made one of his
lively pleasantries to me, and the Duke said to him, 'You are, in my opinion, one of the most
agreeable men in the world, and destiny ordained us for each other.  For, had you been but
an ordinary man, I should have taken you into my service at whatever price; but since heaven
ordained that you should be born a great King, it is inevitable that I belong to you.' Oh,
great man!"  cried Bassompierre, with tears in his eyes, and perhaps a little excited by the
frequent bumpers he had drunk, "you said well, 'When you have lost me you will learn my value.'"

