From this and other instances it appears that the predominance of the superstition of witchcraft,
and the proneness to persecute those accused of such practices in Scotland, were increased
by the too great readiness of subordinate judges to interfere in matters which were, in fact,
beyond their jurisdiction. The Supreme Court of Justiciary was that in which the cause properly
and exclusively ought to have been tried. But, in practice, each inferior judge in the country,
the pettiest bailie in the most trifling burgh, the smallest and most ignorant baron of a rude
territory, took it on him to arrest, imprison, and examine, in which examinations, as we have
already seen, the accused suffered the grossest injustice. The copies of these examinations,
made up of extorted confessions, or the evidence of inhabile witnesses, were all that were
transmitted to the Privy Council, who were to direct the future mode of procedure. Thus no
creature was secure against the malice or folly of some defamatory accusation, if there was
a timid or superstitious judge, though of the meanest denomination, to be found within the
district.

But, secondly, it was the course of the Privy Council to appoint commissions of the gentlemen
of the country, and particularly of the clergymen, though not likely, from their education,
to be freed from general prejudice, and peculiarly liable to be affected by the clamour of
the neighbourhood againt the delinquent. Now, as it is well known that such a commission could
not be granted in a case of murder in the county where the crime was charged, there seems no
good reason why the trial of witches, so liable to excite the passions, should not have been
uniformly tried by a court whose rank and condition secured them from the suspicion of partiality.
But our ancestors arranged it otherwise, and it was the consequence that such commissioners
very seldom, by acquitting the persons brought before them, lost an opportunity of destroying
a witch.

Neither must it be forgotten that the proof led in support of the prosecution was of a kind
very unusual in jurisprudence. The lawyers admitted as evidence what they called damnum minatum,
et malum secutum--some mischief, that is to say, following close upon a threat, or wish of
revenge, uttered by the supposed witch, which, though it might be attributed to the most natural
course of events, was supposed necessarily to be in consequence of the menaces of the accused.

Sometimes this vague species of evidence was still more loosely adduced, and allegations of
danger threatened and mischief ensuing were admitted, though the menaces had not come from
the accused party herself. On 10th June, 1661, as John Stewart, one of a party of stout burghers
of Dalkeith appointed to guard an old woman called Christian Wilson from that town to Niddrie,
was cleaning his gun, he was slyly questioned by Janet Cocke, another confessing witch, who
probably saw his courage was not entirely constant, "What would you think if the devil raise
a whirlwind, and take her from you on the road to-morrow?" Sure enough, on their journey to
Niddrie the party actually were assailed by a sudden gust of wind (not a very uncommon event
in that climate), which scarce permitted the valiant guard to keep their feet, while the miserable
prisoner was blown into a pool of water, and with difficulty raised again. There is some ground
to hope that this extraordinary evidence was not admitted upon the trial.

There is a story told of an old wizard, whose real name was Alexander Hunter, though he was
more generally known by the nickname of Hatteraick, which it had pleased the devil to confer
upon him. The man had for some time adopted the credit of being a conjurer, and curing the
diseases of man and beast by spells and charms. One summer's day, on a green hill-side, the
devil appeared to him in shape of a grave "Mediciner," addressing him thus roundly, "Sandie,
you have too long followed my trade without acknowledging me for a master. You must now enlist
with me and become my servant, and I will teach you your trade better." Hatteraick consented
to the proposal, and we shall let the Rev. Mr. George Sinclair tell the rest of the tale.

"After this he grew very famous through the country for his charming and curing of diseases
in men and beasts, and turned a vagrant fellow like a jockie,[73] gaining meal, and flesh,
and money by his charms, such was the ignorance of many at that time. Whatever house he came
to none durst refuse Hatteraick an alms, rather for his ill than his good. One day he came
to the yait (gate) of Samuelston, when some friends after dinner were going to horse. A young
gentleman, brother to the lady, seeing him, switcht him about the ears, saying--'You warlock
carle, what have you to do here?' Whereupon the fellow goes away grumbling, and was overheard
to say, 'You shall dear buy this ere it be long.' This was damnum minatum. The young gentleman
conveyed his friends a far way off, and came home that way again, where he supped. After supper,
taking his horse and crossing Tyne water to go home, he rides through a shady piece of a haugh,
commonly called Allers, and the evening being somewhat dark, he met with some persons there
that begat a dreadful consternation in him, which for the most part he would never reveal.
This was malum secutum. When he came home the servants observed terror and fear in his countenance.
The next day he became distracted, and was bound for several days. His sister, the Lady Samuelston,
hearing of it, was heard say, 'Surely that knave Hatteraick is the cause of his trouble; call
for him in all haste.' When he had come to her, 'Sandie,' says she, 'what is this you have
done to my brother William?' 'I told him,' says he, 'I should make him repent of his striking
me at the yait lately.' She, giving the rogue fair words, and promising him his pockful of
meal, with beef and cheese, persuaded the fellow to cure him again. He undertook the business.
'But I must first,' says he, 'have one of his sarks' (shirts), which was soon gotten. What
pranks he played with it cannot be known, but within a short while the gentleman recovered
his health. When Hatteraick came to receive his wages he told the lady, 'Your brother William
shall quickly go off the country, but shall never return,' She, knowing the fellow's prophecies
to hold true, caused the brother to make a disposition to her of all his patrimony, to the
defrauding of his younger brother, George. After that this warlock had abused the country for
a long time, he was at last apprehended at Dunbar, and brought into Edinburgh, and burnt upon
the Castlehill."[74]

[Footnote 73: Or Scottish wandering beggar.]

[Footnote 74: Sinclair's "Satan's Invisible World Discovered," p. 98.]

Now, if Hatteraick was really put to death on such evidence, it is worth while to consider
what was its real amount. A hot-tempered swaggering young gentleman horsewhips a beggar of
ill fame for loitering about the gate of his sister's house. The beggar grumbles, as any man
would. The young man, riding in the night, and probably in liquor, through a dark shady place,
is frightened by, he would not, and probably could not, tell what, and has a fever fit. His
sister employs the wizard to take off the spell according to his profession; and here is damnum
minatum, et malum secutum, and all legal cause for burning a man to ashes! The vagrant Hatteraick
probably knew something of the wild young man which might soon oblige him to leave the country;
and the selfish Lady Samuelston, learning the probability of his departure, committed a fraud
which ought to have rendered her evidence inadmissible.

Besides these particular disadvantages, to which the parties accused of this crime in Scotland
were necessarily exposed, both in relation to the judicature by which they were tried and the
evidence upon which they were convicted, their situation was rendered intolerable by the detestation
in which they were held by all ranks. The gentry hated them because the diseases and death
of their relations and children were often imputed to them; the grossly superstitious vulgar
abhorred them with still more perfect dread and loathing. And amongst those natural feelings,
others of a less pardonable description found means to shelter themselves. In one case, we
are informed by Mackenzie, a poor girl was to die for witchcraft, of whom the real crime was
that she had attracted too great a share, in the lady's opinion, of the attention of the laird.

Having thus given some reasons why the prosecutions for witchcraft in Scotland were so numerous
and fatal, we return to the general history of the trials recorded from the reign of James
V. to the union of the kingdoms. Through the reign of Queen Mary these trials for sorcery became
numerous, and the crime was subjected to heavier punishment by the 73rd Act of her 9th Parliament.
But when James VI. approached to years of discretion, the extreme anxiety which he displayed
to penetrate more deeply into mysteries which others had regarded as a very millstone of obscurity,
drew still larger attention to the subject. The sovereign had exhausted his talents of investigation
on the subject of witchcraft, and credit was given to all who acted in defence of the opinions
of the reigning prince. This natural tendency to comply with the opinions of the sovereign
was much augmented by the disposition of the Kirk to the same sentiments. We have already said
that these venerable persons entertained, with good faith, the general erroneous belief respecting
witchcraft--regarding it indeed as a crime which affected their own order more nearly than
others in the state, since, especially called to the service of heaven, they were peculiarly
bound to oppose the incursions of Satan. The works which remain behind them show, among better
things, an unhesitating belief in what were called by them "special providences;" and this
was equalled, at least, by their credulity as to the actual interference of evil spirits in
the affairs of this world. They applied these principles of belief to the meanest causes. A
horse falling lame was a snare of the devil to keep the good clergyman from preaching; the
arrival of a skilful farrier was accounted a special providence to defeat the purpose of Satan.
This was, doubtless, in a general sense true, since nothing can happen without the foreknowledge
and will of Heaven; but we are authorized to believe that the period of supernatural interference
has long passed away, and that the great Creator is content to execute his purposes by the
operation of those laws which influence the general course of nature. Our ancient Scottish
divines thought otherwise. Surrounded, as they conceived themselves, by the snares and temptations
of hell, and relying on the aid of Heaven, they entered into war with the kingdom of Satan,
as the crusaders of old invaded the land of Palestine, with the same confidence in the justice
of their cause and similar indifference concerning the feelings of those whom they accounted
the enemies of God and man. We have already seen that even the conviction that a woman was
innocent of the crime of witchcraft did not induce a worthy clergyman to use any effort to
withdraw her from the stake; and in the same collection[75] there occur some observable passages
of God's providence to a godly minister in giving him "full clearness" concerning Bessie Grahame,
suspected of witchcraft. The whole detail is a curious illustration of the spirit of credulity
which well-disposed men brought with them to such investigations, and how easily the gravest
doubts were removed rather than a witch should be left undetected.

[Footnote 75: "Satan's Invisible World," by Mr. George Sinclair. The author was Professor of
Moral Philosophy in the University of Glasgow, and afterwards minister of Eastwood, in Renfrewshire.]

Bessie Grahame had been committed, it would seem, under suspicions of no great weight, since
the minister, after various conferences, found her defence so successful, that he actually
pitied her hard usage, and wished for her delivery from prison, especially as he doubted whether
a civil court would send her to an assize, or whether an assize would be disposed to convict
her. While the minister was in this doubt, a fellow named Begg was employed as a skilful pricker;
by whose authority it is not said, he thrust a great brass pin up to the head in a wart on
the woman's back, which he affirmed to be the devil's mark. A commission was granted for trial;
but still the chief gentlemen in the county refused to act, and the clergyman's own doubts
were far from being removed. This put the worthy man upon a solemn prayer to God, "that if
he would find out a way for giving the minister full clearness of her guilt, he would acknowledge
it as a singular favour and mercy." This, according to his idea, was accomplished in the following
manner, which he regarded as an answer to his prayer. One evening the clergyman, with Alexander
Simpson, the kirk-officer, and his own servant, had visited Bessie in her cell, to urge her
to confession, but in vain. As they stood on the stair-head behind the door, they heard the
prisoner, whom they had left alone in her place of confinement, discoursing with another person,
who used a low and ghostly tone, which the minister instantly recognised as the Foul Fiend's
voice. But for this discovery we should have been of opinion that Bessie Grahame talked to
herself, as melancholy and despairing wretches are in the habit of doing. But as Alexander
Simpson pretended to understand the sense of what was said within the cell, and the minister
himself was pretty sure he heard two voices at the same time, he regarded the overhearing this
conversation as the answer of the Deity to his petition, and thenceforth was troubled with
no doubts either as to the reasonableness and propriety of his prayer, or the guilt of Bessie
Grahame, though she died obstinate, and would not confess; nay, made a most decent and Christian
end, acquitting her judges and jury of her blood, in respect of the strong delusion under which
they laboured.

Although the ministers, whose opinions were but two strongly on this head in correspondence
with the prevailing superstitions of the people, nourished in the early system of church government
a considerable desire to secure their own immunities and privileges as a national church, which
failed not at last to be brought into contact with the king's prerogative; yet in the earlier
part of his reign, James, when freed from the influence of such a favourite as the profligate
Stuart, Earl of Arran, was in his personal qualities rather acceptable to the clergy of his
kingdom and period. At his departing from Scotland on his romantic expedition to bring home
a consort from Denmark, he very politically recommended to the clergy to contribute all that
lay in their power to assist the civil magistrates, and preserve the public peace of the kingdom.
The king after his return acknowledged with many thanks the care which the clergy had bestowed
in this particular. Nor were they slack in assuming the merit to themselves, for they often
reminded him in their future discords that his kingdom had never been so quiet as during his
voyage to Denmark, when the clergy were in a great measure intrusted with the charge of the
public government.

During the halcyon period of union between kirk and king their hearty agreement on the subject
of witchcraft failed not to heat the fires against the persons suspected of such iniquity.
The clergy considered that the Roman Catholics, their principal enemies, were equally devoted
to the devil, the mass, and the witches, which in their opinion were mutually associated together,
and natural allies in the great cause of mischief. On the other hand, the pedantic sovereign
having exercised his learning and ingenuity in the Demonologia, considered the execution of
every witch who was burnt as a necessary conclusion of his own royal syllogisms. The juries
were also afraid of the consequences of acquittal to themselves, being liable to suffer under
an assize of error should they be thought to have been unjustly merciful; and as the witches
tried were personally as insignificant as the charge itself was odious, there was no restraint
whatever upon those in whose hands their fate lay, and there seldom wanted some such confession
as we have often mentioned, or such evidence as that collected by the minister who overheard
the dialogue between the witch and her master, to salve their consciences and reconcile them
to bring in a verdict of guilty.

The execution of witches became for these reasons very common in Scotland, where the king seemed
in some measure to have made himself a party in the cause, and the clergy esteemed themselves
such from the very nature of their profession. But the general spite of Satan and his adherents
was supposed to be especially directed against James, on account of his match with Anne of
Denmark--the union of a Protestant princess with a Protestant prince, the King of Scotland
and heir of England being, it could not be doubted, an event which struck the whole kingdom
of darkness with alarm. James was self-gratified by the unusual spirit which he had displayed
on his voyage in quest of his bride, and well disposed to fancy that he had performed it in
positive opposition, not only to the indirect policy of Elizabeth, but to the malevolent purpose
of hell itself. His fleet had been tempest-tost, and he very naturally believed that the prince
of the power of the air had been personally active on the occasion.

The principal person implicated in these heretical and treasonable undertakings was one Agnes
Simpson, or Samson, called the Wise Wife of Keith, and described by Archbishop Spottiswood,
not as one of the base or ignorant class of ordinary witches, but a grave matron, composed
and deliberate in her answers, which were all to some purpose. This grave dame, from the terms
of her indictment, seems to have been a kind of white witch, affecting to cure diseases by
words and charms, a dangerous profession considering the times in which she lived. Neither
did she always keep the right and sheltered side of the law in such delicate operations. One
article of her indictment proves this, and at the same time establishes that the Wise Woman
of Keith knew how to turn her profession to account; for, being consulted in the illness of
Isobel Hamilton, she gave her opinion that nothing could amend her unless the devil was raised;
and the sick woman's husband, startling at the proposal, and being indifferent perhaps about
the issue, would not bestow the necessary expenses, whereupon the Wise Wife refused to raise
the devil, and the patient died. This woman was principally engaged in an extensive conspiracy
to destroy the fleet of the queen by raising a tempest; and to take the king's life by anointing
his linen with poisonous materials, and by constructing figures of clay, to be wasted and tormented
after the usual fashion of necromancy.

Amongst her associates was an unhappy lady of much higher degree. This was Dame Euphane MacCalzean,
the widow of a Senator of the College of Justice, and a person infinitely above the rank of
the obscure witches with whom she was joined in her crime. Mr. Pitcairn supposes that this
connexion may have arisen from her devotion to the Catholic faith and her friendship for the
Earl of Bothwell.

The third person in this singular league of sorcerers was Doctor John Fian, otherwise Cunninghame,
who was schoolmaster at Tranent, and enjoyed much hazardous reputation as a warlock. This man
was made the hero of the whole tale of necromancy, in an account of it published at London,
and entitled, "News from Scotland," which has been lately reprinted by the Roxburghe Club.
It is remarkable that the Scottish witchcrafts were not thought sufficiently horrible by the
editor of this tract, without adding to them the story of a philtre being applied to a cow's
hair instead of that of the young woman for whom it was designed, and telling how the animal
came lowing after the sorcerer to his schoolroom door, like a second Pasiphaë, the original
of which charm occurs in the story of Apuleius.[76]

[Footnote 76: "Lucii Apuleii Metamorphoses," lib. iii.]

Besides these persons, there was one Barbara Napier, alias Douglas, a person of some rank;
Geillis Duncan, a very active witch; and about thirty other poor creatures of the lowest condition--among
the rest, and doorkeeper to the conclave, a silly old ploughman, called as his nickname Graymeal,
who was cuffed by the devil for saying simply, "God bless the king!" Gif ye will not gang before,
Cummers, let me."

After this choral exhibition, the music seems to have been rather imperfect, the number of
dancers considered. Geillis Duncan was the only instrumental performer, and she played on a
Jew's harp, called in Scotland a trump.

[Footnote 77: The music of this witch tune is unhappily lost. But that of another, believed
to have been popular on such occasions, is preserved. This rigorous and iniquitous conduct
shows a sufficient reason why there should be so few acquittals from a charge of witchcraft
where the juries were so much at the mercy of the crown.

It would be disgusting to follow the numerous cases in which the same uniform credulity, the
same extorted confessions, the same prejudiced and exaggerated evidence, concluded in the same
tragedy at the stake and the pile.

Nor did King James's removal to England soften this horrible persecution. In Sir Thomas Hamilton's
Minutes of Proceedings in the Privy Council, there occurs a singular entry, evincing plainly
that the Earl of Mar, and others of James's Council, were becoming fully sensible of the desperate
iniquity and inhumanity of these proceedings. I have modernized the spelling that this appalling
record may be legible to all my readers.

[Footnote 78: I am obliged to the kindness of Mr. Pitcairn for this singular extract. The southern
reader must be informed that the jurisdiction or regality of Broughton embraced Holyrood, Canongate,
Leith, and other suburban parts of Edinburgh, and bore the same relation to that city as the
borough of Southwark to London.]

This singular document shows that even in the reign of James, so soon as his own august person
was removed from Edinburgh, his dutiful Privy Council began to think that they had supt full
with horrors, and were satiated with the excess of cruelty which dashed half-consumed wretches
back into the flames from which they were striving to escape.

But the picture, however much it may have been disgusting and terrifying to the Council at
the time, and though the intention of the entry upon the records was obviously for the purpose
of preventing such horrid cruelties in future, had no lasting effect on the course of justice,
as the severities against witches were most unhappily still considered necessary. Through the
whole of the sixteenth, and the greater part of the seventeenth century, little abatement in
the persecution of this metaphysical crime of witchcraft can be traced in the kingdom. Even
while the Independents held the reins of government, Cromwell himself, and his major-generals
and substitutes, were obliged to please the common people of Scotland by abandoning the victims
accused of witchcraft to the power of the law, though the journals of the time express the
horror and disgust with which the English sectarians beheld a practice so inconsistent with
their own humane principle of universal toleration.

Instead of plunging into a history of these events which, generally speaking, are in detail
as monotonous as they are melancholy, it may amuse the reader to confine the narrative to a
single trial, having in the course of it some peculiar and romantic events. It is the tale
of a sailor's wife, more tragic in its event than that of the chestnut-muncher in Macbeth.[79]

[Footnote 79: A copy of the record of the trial, which took place in Ayrshire, was sent to
me by a friend who withheld his name, so that I can only thank him in this general acknowledgment.]

Margaret Barclay, wife of Archibald Dein, burgess of Irvine, had been slandered by her sister-in-law,
Janet Lyal, the spouse of John Dein, brother of Archibald, and by John Dein himself, as guilty
of some act of theft. Upon this provocation Margaret Barclay raised an action of slander before
the church court, which prosecution, after some procedure, the kirk-session discharged by directing
a reconciliation between the parties. Nevertheless, although the two women shook hands before
the court, yet the said Margaret Barclay declared that she gave her hand only in obedience
to the kirk-session, but that she still retained her hatred and ill-will against John Dein
and his wife, Janet Lyal. About this time the bark of John Dein was about to sail for France,
and Andrew Train, or Tran, provost of the burgh of Irvine, who was an owner of the vessel,
went with him to superintend the commercial part of the voyage. Two other merchants of some
consequence went in the same vessel, with a sufficient number of mariners. Margaret Barclay,
the revengeful person already mentioned, was heard to imprecate curses upon the provost's argosy,
praying to God that sea nor salt-water might never bear the ship, and that partans (crabs)
might eat the crew at the bottom of the sea.

When, under these auspices, the ship was absent on her voyage, a vagabond fellow, named John
Stewart, pretending to have knowledge of jugglery, and to possess the power of a spaeman, came
to the residence of Tran, the provost, and dropped explicit hints that the ship was lost, and
that the good woman of the house was a widow. The sad truth was afterwards learned on more
certain information. Two of the seamen, after a space of doubt and anxiety, arrived, with the
melancholy tidings that the bark, of which John Dein was skipper and Provost Tran part owner,
had been wrecked on the coast of England, near Padstow, when all on board had been lost, except
the two sailors who brought the notice. Suspicion of sorcery, in those days easily awakened,
was fixed on Margaret Barclay, who had imprecated curses on the ship, and on John Stewart,
the juggler, who had seemed to know of the evil fate of the voyage before he could have become
acquainted with it by natural means.

