VIII.  Still he was subjected to many slights.  If at any time he came in late to supper, he
was obliged to walk round the room some time before he could get a place at table.  When he
indulged himself with sleep after eating, which was a common practice with him, the company
used to throw olive-stones and dates at him.  And the buffoons who attended would wake him,
as if it were only in jest, with a cane or a whip.  Sometimes they would put slippers upon
his hands; as he lay snoring, that he might, upon awaking, rub his face with them.

IX.  He was not only exposed to contempt, but sometimes likewise to considerable danger: first,
in his consulship; for, having been too remiss in providing and erecting the statues of Caius's
brothers, Nero and Drusus, he was very near being deprived of his office; and afterwards he
was continually harassed with informations against him by one or other, sometimes even by his
own domestics.  When the conspiracy of Lepidus and Gaetulicus was discovered, being sent with
some other deputies into Germany [474], to congratulate the emperor upon the occasion, he was
in danger of his life; Caius being greatly enraged, and loudly complaining, that his uncle
was sent to him, as if he was a boy who wanted a governor.  Some even say, that he was thrown
into a river, in his travelling dress.  From this period, he voted in the senate always the
last of the members of consular rank; being called upon after the rest, on purpose to disgrace
him.  A charge for the forgery of a will was also allowed to be prosecuted, though he had only
signed it as a witness. At last, being obliged to pay eight millions of sesterces on entering
upon a new office of priesthood, he was reduced to such straits in his private affairs, that
in order to discharge his bond to the treasury, he was under the necessity of exposing to sale
his whole estate, by an order of the prefects.

X.  Having spent the greater part of his life under these and the like circumstances, he came
at last to the empire in the fiftieth year of his age [475], by a very surprising turn of fortune.
Being, as well as the rest, prevented from approaching Caius by the conspirators, who dispersed
the crowd, under the pretext of his desiring to be private, he retired into an apartment called
the Hermaeum [476]; and soon afterwards, terrified by the report of Caius being slain, he crept
into an adjoining balcony, where he hid himself behind the hangings of (302) the door.  A common
soldier, who happened to pass that way, spying his feet, and desirous to discover who he was,
pulled him out; when immediately recognizing him, he threw himself in a great fright at his
feet, and saluted him by the title of emperor.  He then conducted him to his fellow-soldiers,
who were all in a great rage, and irresolute what they should do.  They put him into a litter,
and as the slaves of the palace had all fled, took their turns in carrying him on their shoulders,
and brought him into the camp, sad and trembling; the people who met him lamenting his situation,
as if the poor innocent was being carried to execution.  Being received within the ramparts
[477], he continued all night with the sentries on guard, recovered somewhat from his fright,
but in no great hopes of the succession.  For the consuls, with the senate and civic troops,
had possessed themselves of the Forum and Capitol, with the determination to assert the public
liberty; and he being sent for likewise, by a tribune of the people, to the senate-house, to
give his advice upon the present juncture of affairs, returned answer, "I am under constraint,
and cannot possibly come."  The day afterwards, the senate being dilatory in their proceedings,
and worn out by divisions amongst themselves, while the people who surrounded the senate-house
shouted that they would have one master, naming Claudius, he suffered the soldiers assembled
under arms to swear allegiance to him, promising them fifteen thousand sesterces a man; he
being the first of the Caesars who purchased the submission of the soldiers with money. [478]

XI.  Having thus established himself in power, his first object was to abolish all remembrance
of the two preceding days, in which a revolution in the state had been canvassed.  Accordingly,
he passed an act of perpetual oblivion and pardon for every thing said or done during that
time; and this he faithfully observed, with the exception only of putting to death a few tribunes
and centurions concerned in the conspiracy against Caius, both as an example, and because he
understood that they had also planned his own death.  He now turned (303) his thoughts towards
paying respect to the memory of his relations.  His most solemn and usual oath was, "By Augustus."
He prevailed upon the senate to decree divine honours to his grandmother Livia, with a chariot
in the Circensian procession drawn by elephants, as had been appointed for Augustus [479];
and public offerings to the shades of his parents.  Besides which, he instituted Circensian
games for his father, to be celebrated every year, upon his birth-day, and, for his mother,
a chariot to be drawn through the circus; with the title of Augusta, which had been refused
by his grandmother [480].  To the memory of his brother [481], to which, upon all occasions,
he showed a great regard, he gave a Greek comedy, to be exhibited in the public diversions
at Naples [482], and awarded the crown for it, according to the sentence of the judges in that
solemnity.  Nor did he omit to make honourable and grateful mention of Mark Antony; declaring
by a proclamation, "That he the more earnestly insisted upon the observation of his father
Drusus's birth-day, because it was likewise that of his grandfather Antony."  He completed
the marble arch near Pompey's theatre, which had formerly been decreed by the senate in honour
of Tiberius, but which had been neglected [483].  And though he cancelled all the acts of Caius,
yet he forbad the day of his assassination, notwithstanding it was that of his own accession
to the empire, to be reckoned amongst the festivals.

XII.  But with regard to his own aggrandisement, he was sparing and modest, declining the title
of emperor, and refusing all excessive honours.  He celebrated the marriage of his daughter
and the birth-day of a grandson with great privacy, at home.  He recalled none of those who
had been banished, without a decree of the senate: and requested of them permission for the
prefect of the military tribunes and pretorian guards to attend him in the senate-house [484];
and (304) also that they would be pleased to bestow upon his procurators judicial authority
in the provinces [485].  He asked of the consuls likewise the privilege of holding fairs upon
his private estate.  He frequently assisted the magistrates in the trial of causes, as one
of their assessors.  And when they gave public spectacles, he would rise up with the rest of
the spectators, and salute them both by words and gestures.  When the tribunes of the people
came to him while he was on the tribunal, he excused himself, because, on account of the crowd,
he could not hear them unless they stood.  In a short time, by this conduct, he wrought himself
so much into the favour and affection of the public, that when, upon his going to Ostia, a
report was spread in the city that he had been way-laid and slain, the people never ceased
cursing the soldiers for traitors, and the senate as parricides, until one or two persons,
and presently after several others, were brought by the magistrates upon the rostra, who assured
them that he was alive, and not far from the city, on his way home.

XIII.  Conspiracies, however, were formed against him, not only by individuals separately,
but by a faction; and at last his government was disturbed with a civil war.  A low fellow
was found with a poniard about him, near his chamber, at midnight.  Two men of the equestrian
order were discovered waiting for him in the streets, armed with a tuck and a huntsman's dagger;
one of them intending to attack him as he came out of the theatre, and the other as he was
sacrificing in the temple of Mars. Gallus Asinius and Statilius Corvinus, grandsons of the
two orators, Pollio and Messala [486], formed a conspiracy against him, in which they engaged
many of his freedmen and slaves.  Furius Camillus Scribonianus, his lieutenant in Dalmatia,
broke into rebellion, but was reduced in (305) the space of five days; the legions which he
had seduced from their oath of fidelity relinquishing their purpose, upon an alarm occasioned
by ill omens.  For when orders were given them to march, to meet their new emperor, the eagles
could not be decorated, nor the standards pulled out of the ground, whether it was by accident,
or a divine interposition.

XIV.  Besides his former consulship, he held the office afterwards four times; the first two
successively [487], but the following, after an interval of four years each [488]; the last
for six months, the others for two; and the third, upon his being chosen in the room of a consul
who died; which had never been done by any of the emperors before him. Whether he was consul
or out of office, he constantly attended the courts for the administration of justice, even
upon such days as were solemnly observed as days of rejoicing in his family, or by his friends;
and sometimes upon the public festivals of ancient institution.  Nor did he always adhere strictly
to the letter of the laws, but overruled the rigour or lenity of many of their enactments,
according to his sentiments of justice and equity.  For where persons lost their suits by insisting
upon more than appeared to be their due, before the judges of private causes, he granted them
the indulgence of a second trial.  And with regard to such as were convicted of any great delinquency,
he even exceeded the punishment appointed by law, and condemned them to be exposed to wild
beasts. [489]

XV.  But in hearing and determining causes, he exhibited a strange inconsistency of temper,
being at one time circumspect and sagacious, at another inconsiderate and rash, and sometimes
frivolous, and like one out of his mind.  In correcting the roll of judges, he struck off the
name of one who, concealing the privilege his children gave him to be excused from serving,
had answered to his name, as too eager for the office. Another who was summoned before him
in a cause of his own, but alleged that the affair did not properly come under the (306) emperor's
cognizance, but that of the ordinary judges, he ordered to plead the cause himself immediately
before him, and show in a case of his own, how equitable a judge he would prove in that of
other persons.  A woman refusing to acknowledge her own son, and there being no clear proof
on either side, he obliged her to confess the truth, by ordering her to marry the young man
[490].  He was much inclined to determine causes in favour of the parties who appeared, against
those who did not, without inquiring whether their absence was occasioned by their own fault,
or by real necessity.  On proclamation of a man's being convicted of forgery, and that he ought
to have his hand cut off, he insisted that an executioner should be immediately sent for, with
a Spanish sword and a block.  A person being prosecuted for falsely assuming the freedom of
Rome, and a frivolous dispute arising between the advocates in the cause, whether he ought
to make his appearance in the Roman or Grecian dress, to show his impartiality, he commanded
him to change his clothes several times according to the character he assumed in the accusation
or defence. An anecdote is related of him, and believed to be true, that, in a particular cause,
he delivered his sentence in writing thus: "I am in favour of those who have spoken the truth."
[491]  By this he so much forfeited the good opinion of the world, that he was everywhere and
openly despised.  A person making an excuse for the non-appearance of a witness whom he had
sent for from the provinces, declared it was impossible for him to appear, concealing the reason
for some time: at last, after several interrogatories were put to him on the subject, he answered,
"The man is dead;" to which Claudius replied, "I think that is a sufficient excuse."  Another
thanking him for suffering a person who was prosecuted to make his defence by counsel, added,
"And yet it is no more than what is usual."  I have likewise heard some old men say [492],
that the advocates used to abuse his patience so grossly, that they would not only (307) call
him back, as he was quitting the tribunal, but would seize him by the lap of his coat, and
sometimes catch him by the heels, to make him stay.  That such behaviour, however strange,
is not incredible, will appear from this anecdote.  Some obscure Greek, who was a litigant,
had an altercation with him, in which he called out, "You are an old fool." [493]  It is certain
that a Roman knight, who was prosecuted by an impotent device of his enemies on a false charge
of abominable obscenity with women, observing that common strumpets were summoned against him
and allowed to give evidence, upbraided Claudius in very harsh and severe terms with his folly
and cruelty, and threw his style, and some books which he had in his hands, in his face, with
such violence as to wound him severely in the cheek.

XVI.  He likewise assumed the censorship [494], which had been discontinued since the time
that Paulus and Plancus had jointly held it. But this also he administered very unequally,
and with a strange variety of humour and conduct.  In his review of the knights, he passed
over, without any mark of disgrace, a profligate young man, only because his father spoke of
him in the highest terms; "for," said he, "his father is his proper censor."  Another, who
was infamous for debauching youths and for adultery, he only admonished "to indulge his youthful
inclinations more sparingly, or at least more cautiously;" [495] adding, "why must I know what
mistress you keep?"  When, at the request of his friends, he had taken off a mark of infamy
which he had set upon one knight's name, he said, "Let the blot, however, remain."  He not
only struck out of the list of judges, but likewise deprived of the freedom of Rome, an illustrious
man of the highest provincial rank in Greece, only because he was ignorant of the Latin language.
Nor in this review did he suffer any one to give an account of his conduct by an advocate,
but obliged each man to speak for himself in the best way he could.  He disgraced many, and
some that little expected it, and for a reason entirely new, namely, for going out of Italy
without his license; (308) and one likewise, for having in his province been the familiar companion
of a king; observing, that, in former times, Rabirius Posthumus had been prosecuted for treason,
although he only went after Ptolemy to Alexandria for the purpose of securing payment of a
debt [496].  Having tried to brand with disgrace several others, he, to his own greater shame,
found them generally innocent, through the negligence of the persons employed to inquire into
their characters; those whom he charged with living in celibacy, with want of children, or
estate, proving themselves to be husbands, parents, and in affluent circumstances.  One of
the knights who was charged with stabbing himself, laid his bosom bare, to show that there
was not the least mark of violence upon his body.  The following incidents were remarkable
in his censorship.  He ordered a car, plated with silver, and of very sumptuous workmanship,
which was exposed for sale in the Sigillaria [497], to be purchased, and broken in pieces before
his eyes.  He published twenty proclamations in one day, in one of which he advised the people,
"Since the vintage was very plentiful, to have their casks well secured at the bung with pitch:"
and in another, he told them, "that nothing would sooner cure the bite of a viper, than the
sap of the yew-tree."

XVII.  He undertook only one expedition, and that was of short duration. The triumphal ornaments
decreed him by the senate, he considered as beneath the imperial dignity, and was therefore
resolved to have the honour of a real triumph.  For this purpose, he selected Britain, which
had never been attempted by any one since Julius Caesar [498], and was then chafing (309) with
rage, because the Romans would not give up some deserters.  Accordingly, he set sail from Ostia,
but was twice very near being wrecked by the boisterous wind called Circius [499], upon the
coast of Liguria, and near the islands called Stoechades [500].  Having marched by land from
Marseilles to Gessoriacum [501], he thence passed over to Britain, and part of the island submitting
to him, within a few days after his arrival, without battle or bloodshed, he returned to Rome
in less than six months from the time of his departure, and triumphed in the most solemn manner
[502]; to witness which, he not only (310) gave leave to governors of provinces to come to
Rome, but even to some of the exiles.  Among the spoils taken from the enemy, he fixed upon
the pediment of his house in the Palatium, a naval crown, in token of his having passed, and,
as it were, conquered the Ocean, and had it suspended near the civic crown which was there
before.  Messalina, his wife, followed his chariot in a covered litter [503].  Those who had
attained the honour of triumphal ornaments in the same war, rode behind; the rest followed
on foot, wearing the robe with the broad stripes.  Crassus Frugi was mounted upon a horse richly
caparisoned, in a robe embroidered with palm leaves, because this was the second time of his
obtaining that honour.

XVIII.  He paid particular attention to the care of the city, and to have it well supplied
with provisions.  A dreadful fire happening in the Aemiliana [504], which lasted some time,
he passed two nights in the Diribitorium [505], and the soldiers and gladiators not being in
sufficient numbers to extinguish it, he caused the magistrates to summon the people out of
all the streets in the city, to their assistance. Placing bags of money before him, he encouraged
them to do their utmost, declaring, that he would reward every one on the spot, according to
their exertions.

XIX.  During a scarcity of provisions, occasioned by bad crops for several successive years,
he was stopped in the middle of the Forum by the mob, who so abused him, at the same time pelting
him with fragments of bread, that he had some (311) difficulty in escaping into the palace
by a back door.  He therefore used all possible means to bring provisions to the city, even
in the winter.  He proposed to the merchants a sure profit, by indemnifying them against any
loss that might befall them by storms at sea; and granted great privileges to those who built
ships for that traffic.  To a citizen of Rome he gave an exemption from the penalty of the
Papia-Poppaean law [506]; to one who had only the privilege of Latium, the freedom of the city;
and to women the rights which by law belonged to those who had four children: which enactments
are in force to this day.

XX.  He completed some important public works, which, though not numerous, were very useful.
The principal were an aqueduct, which had been begun by Caius; an emissary for the discharge
of the waters of the Fucine lake [507], and the harbour of Ostia; although he knew that Augustus
had refused to comply with the repeated application of the Marsians for one of these; and that
the other had been several times intended by Julius Caesar, but as often abandoned on account
of the difficulty of its execution.  He brought to the city the cool and plentiful springs
of the Claudian water, one of which is called Caeruleus, and the other Curtius and Albudinus,
as likewise the river of the New Anio, in a stone canal; and distributed them into many magnificent
reservoirs.  The canal from the Fucine lake was undertaken as much for the sake of profit,
as for the honour of the enterprise; for there were parties who offered to drain it at their
own expense, on condition of their having a grant of the land laid dry.  With great difficulty
he completed a canal three miles in length, partly by cutting through, and partly by tunnelling,
a mountain; thirty thousand men being constantly employed in the work for eleven years [508].
He formed the harbour at Ostia, by carrying out circular piers on the right and on the left,
with (312) a mole protecting, in deep water, the entrance of the port [509].  To secure the
foundation of this mole, he sunk the vessel in which the great obelisk [510] had been brought
from Egypt [511]; and built upon piles a very lofty tower, in imitation of the Pharos at Alexandria,
on which lights were burnt to direct mariners in the night.

XXI.  He often distributed largesses of corn and money among the people, and entertained them
with a great variety of public magnificent spectacles, not only such as were usual, and in
the accustomed places, but some of new invention, and others revived from ancient models, and
exhibited in places where nothing of the kind had been ever before attempted.  In the games
which he presented at the dedication of Pompey's theatre [512], which had been burnt down,
and was rebuilt by him, he presided upon a tribunal erected for him in the orchestra; having
first paid his devotions, in the temple above, and then coming down through the centre of the
circle, while all the people kept their seats in profound silence [513].  He likewise (313)
exhibited the secular games [514], giving out that Augustus had anticipated the regular period;
though he himself says in his history, "That they had been omitted before the age of Augustus,
who had calculated the years with great exactness, and again brought them to their regular
period." [515]  The crier was therefore ridiculed, when he invited people in the usual form,
"to games which no person had ever before seen, nor ever would again;" when many were still
living who had already seen them; and some of the performers who had formerly acted in them,
were now again brought upon the stage.  He likewise frequently celebrated the Circensian games
in the Vatican [516], sometimes exhibiting a hunt of wild beasts, after every five courses.
He embellished the Circus Maximus with marble barriers, and gilded goals, which before were
of common stone [517] and wood, and assigned proper places for the senators, who were used
to sit promiscuously with the other spectators.  Besides the chariot-races, he exhibited there
the Trojan game, and wild beasts from Africa, which were encountered by a troop of pretorian
knights, with their tribunes, and even the prefect at the head of them; besides Thessalian
horse, who drive fierce bulls round the circus, leap upon their backs when they have exhausted
their fury, and drag them by the horns to the ground.  He gave exhibitions of gladiators in
several places, and of various kinds; one yearly on the anniversary of his accession in the
pretorian camp [518], but without any hunting, or the usual apparatus; another in the Septa
as usual; and in the same place, another out of the common way, and of a few days' continuance
only, which he called Sportula; because when he was going to present it, he informed the people
by proclamation, "that he invited them to a late supper, got up in haste, and without ceremony."
Nor did he lend himself to any kind of public diversion with more freedom and hilarity; insomuch
that he would hold out his left hand, and (314) joined by the common people, count upon his
fingers aloud the gold pieces presented to those who came off conquerors.  He would earnestly
invite the company to be merry; sometimes calling them his "masters," with a mixture of insipid,
far-fetched jests.  Thus, when the people called for Palumbus [519], he said, "He would give
them one when he could catch it." The following was well-intended, and well-timed; having,
amidst great applause, spared a gladiator, on the intercession of his four sons, he sent a
billet immediately round the theatre, to remind the people, "how much it behoved them to get
children, since they had before them an example how useful they had been in procuring favour
and security for a gladiator."  He likewise represented in the Campus Martius, the assault
and sacking of a town, and the surrender of the British kings [520], presiding in his general's
cloak.  Immediately before he drew off the waters from the Fucine lake, he exhibited upon it
a naval fight.  But the combatants on board the fleets crying out, "Health attend you, noble
emperor!  We, who are about to peril our lives, salute you;" and he replying, "Health attend
you too," they all refused to fight, as if by that response he had meant to excuse them.  Upon
this, he hesitated for a time, whether he should not destroy them all with fire and sword.
At last, leaping from his seat, and running along the shore of the lake with tottering steps,
the result of his foul excesses, he, partly by fair words, and partly by threats, persuaded
them to engage.  This spectacle represented an engagement between the fleets of Sicily and
Rhodes; consisting each of twelve ships of war, of three banks of oars.  The signal for the
encounter was given by a silver Triton, raised by machinery from the middle of the lake.

XXII.  With regard to religious ceremonies, the administration of affairs both civil and military,
and the condition of all orders of the people at home and abroad, some practices he corrected,
others which had been laid aside he revived; and some regulations he introduced which were
entirely new.  In appointing new priests for the several colleges, he made no appointments
without being sworn.  When an earthquake (315) happened in the city, he never failed to summon
the people together by the praetor, and appoint holidays for sacred rites.  And upon the sight
of any ominous bird in the City or Capitol, he issued an order for a supplication, the words
of which, by virtue of his office of high priest, after an exhortation from the rostra, he
recited in the presence of the people, who repeated them after him; all workmen and slaves
being first ordered to withdraw.

XXIII.  The courts of judicature, whose sittings had been formerly divided between the summer
and winter months, he ordered, for the dispatch of business, to sit the whole year round. 
The jurisdiction in matters of trust, which used to be granted annually by special commission
to certain magistrates, and in the city only, he made permanent, and extended to the provincial
judges likewise.  He altered a clause added by Tiberius to the Papia-Poppaean law [521], which
inferred that men of sixty years of age were incapable of begetting children.  He ordered that,
out of the ordinary course of proceeding, orphans might have guardians appointed them by the
consuls; and that those who were banished from any province by the chief magistrate, should
be debarred from coming into the City, or any part of Italy.  He inflicted on certain persons
a new sort of banishment, by forbidding them to depart further than three miles from Rome.
When any affair of importance came before the senate, he used to sit between the two consuls
upon the seats of the tribunes. He reserved to himself the power of granting license to travel
out of Italy, which before had belonged to the senate.

XXIV.  He likewise granted the consular ornaments to his Ducenarian procurators.  From those
who declined the senatorian dignity, he took away the equestrian.  Although he had in the beginning
of his reign declared, that he would admit no man into the senate who was not the great-grandson
of a Roman citizen, yet he gave the "broad hem" to the son of a freedman, on condition that
he should be adopted by a Roman knight. Being afraid, however, of incurring censure by such
an act, he informed the public, that his ancestor Appius Caecus, the censor, had elected the
sons of freedmen into (316) the senate; for he was ignorant, it seems, that in the times of
Appius, and a long while afterwards, persons manumitted were not called freedmen, but only
their sons who were free-born.  Instead of the expense which the college of quaestors was obliged
to incur in paving the high-ways, he ordered them to give the people an exhibition of gladiators;
and relieving them of the provinces of Ostia and [Cisalpine] Gaul, he reinstated them in the
charge of the treasury, which, since it was taken from them, had been managed by the praetors,
or those who had formerly filled that office.  He gave the triumphal ornaments to Silanus,
who was betrothed to his daughter, though he was under age; and in other cases, he bestowed
them on so many, and with so little reserve, that there is extant a letter unanimously addressed
to him by all the legions, begging him "to grant his consular lieutenants the triumphal ornaments
at the time of their appointment to commands, in order to prevent their seeking occasion to
engage in unnecessary wars." He decreed to Aulus Plautius the honour of an ovation [522], going
to meet him at his entering the city, and walking with him in the procession to the Capitol,
and back, in which he took the left side, giving him the post of honour.  He allowed Gabinius
Secundus, upon his conquest of the Chauci, a German tribe, to assume the cognomen of Chaucius.
[523]

