When our cannon at last, towards evening, condescended to bombard the enemy, the firing almost
wholly ceased, and we made use of that favourable opportunity to get back to the donga. We
had lain nine hours behind those ant-hills, and, strange to say, there were only two wounded
on our side. We decided not to run the same risk again. In this way we lost our confidence
in men like the brothers Erasmus, General and Commandant, who, in the first place, were incapable
of organizing a good plan of attack, and, secondly, never took part in a battle.

The months spent near Ladysmith were to most of us the most tedious of the whole war. We had
so little to do, and the heat between the glowing rocks of the kopjes was awful. The little
work we had was anything but pleasant; it consisted chiefly in keeping guard either by day
or by night. In the beginning a very bad watch was kept. Later on we had to climb the kopje
at least every alternate evening to pass the long nights in our positions, while not far behind
us stood our empty tents.

When we got back in the morning with our bundles on our backs, dead tired, we simply 'flopped'
on to a stone, and sat waiting for our cup of coffee, either gazing at the lovely landscape
or at the dirty camp, according to the mood we were in, or exchanging loud jokes with our neighbours.
Constantly being on guard and constantly being in danger wears one out. We much prefer active
service on patrol or in a skirmish to lying in our positions. It is not in the nature of the
Boer to lie inactive far from his home. He soon wants to go 'huis-toe' (home), and very soon
the 'leave-plague' broke out in our camp. That plague was one of the causes why the enemy succeeded
in breaking through our lines.

Through unfairness on the part of the officers, some burghers often got leave, others never,
and the consequence, of course, was a constant quarrelling. Many burghers got leave and never
returned--either with or without the knowledge of the officers. No wonder we never had a proper
fighting force in the field.

The difficulties we had to contend with through want of organization prevented the Generals
from putting their plans into execution.

Fortunately, many burghers were very willing, and if there was to be a fight they always went
voluntarily. It was noticeable that those under a capable General fought well, while those
under a bad or incapable General were very weak indeed. Sometimes wonders were done at the
initiative of some of the burghers. We had a few games in the camp to pass the time, but we
were kept busy in a different way also. Sometimes, when we were all just comfortably lazy,
the order would be given to 'mount.' That meant a hurried search for our horses and snatching
up our guns and bandoliers. But after a while we had had enough of those false alarms, and
they failed to make any impression on us. The call of 'The English are coming! saddle, saddle!'
became proverbial.

When we did not keep such constant guard, we sat or lay listening of an evening to a most discordant
noise caused by the singing of psalms and hymns at the same time at different farms. We sometimes
joined in. As a people we are not very musical.

The day-watch we liked best. Then we often got a chance of firing a shot at a careless khaki
on the Rooirandjes. To some of our young men there was something very exciting in the idea
that they were in constant danger. Every now and again a bomb, too, would come flying over
the camp, and the whole commando would make for the rocks amid shouts of laughter.

At that time we still felt rather down when there was a fight in prospect. When, some time
after our attack on the Rooirandjes, we went to the west of Ladysmith to attack Platrand, we
did not feel at all comfortable, although we went voluntarily. It was a lovely ride in the
dark at a flying gallop, but when we found on our arrival at Platrand that the promised number
of men was not there, we rode away again quite satisfied that we had not to attempt the attack.
For had we not made up our minds not to risk a repetition of the attack on Rooirandjes?

The blowing-up of the cannon at Ladysmith is one of the episodes of the war that we look back
upon with a feeling of shame. A few days after a Long Tom had been blown up on Umbulwana Kop,
east of Ladysmith, I warned our Field-Cornet that the enemy were busy spying in our neighbourhood
at night. While on guard, we could distinctly hear the flapping of the saddles and the neighing
of the horses in front of us. I foretold a repetition of what had happened on Umbulwana Kop.
The Field-Cornet promised that the guard would be doubled that night. Towards morning those
of us who were not on guard were waked out of our sleep by a loud cry of 'Hurrah!' from the
throats of a few hundred Englishmen who were blowing up two cannon on a mountain to our right,
close to us. We sprang towards our positions, stumbling and falling over stones, not knowing
what was going on, and expecting the khakies at any moment. It was the first time that we had
heard a fight at night, and it gave us a creepy feeling. We saw the flames of the guns and
from the exploding bullets, and heard the rattling of the shots and the shouting, but we could
not join in the fight, as we--eight of us--were not allowed to leave our positions. Now and
again a bullet fell in our neighbourhood, and the Free State Artillery, who were on the mountains
to the right, fired some bombs at the enemy, nearly hitting us in the dark.

When it got lighter we went to look at the dead and wounded, perhaps from a feeling of bravado,
perhaps to accustom ourselves to the sight. The enemy had paid dearly for their brave deed.
They know the number of their dead and wounded better than we do, for they had opportunity
enough to carry them away. On our side only four were killed and a few wounded. Niemeyer, Van
Zyl and Villiers were among the killed. Pott was severely wounded. Niemeyer had several bayonet
wounds.

After that we were, of course, doubly careful. We have never been able to discover who failed
in their duty on guard. Cooper and Tossel were suspected and accused. They were sent to Pretoria
under arrest, but the investigation never led to any result. We have every reason to believe
that our burghers were guilty of treachery more than once near Ladysmith. Government ought
from the start to have taken strict measures against traitors and spies.

Some days after the blowing up of the cannon I sprained my left knee, which I had already hurt
before the war began. General Erasmus gave me leave to go home for an unlimited time. On my
way home I passed my brother Willem without being aware of it. He had come from Holland, where
he was studying, to take part in the war.

What a meeting with relatives and friends! How much there was to tell! Even then we had not
experienced very much, and how much more will our burghers have to tell their dear ones on
returning from their exile in strange countries! There will, alas! be much sorrow, too; for
many of our friends and relatives have been killed in this war, and many more will have yet
to give their lives for their country! The first thing that caught my eye on my return to the
camp was the balloon above Ladysmith. It looked just like a large crocodile-eye as it followed
all my movements. When I went to look for my horse or to fetch water or wood, there it stood,
high up in the sky, and I felt as if it kept its eye specially fixed on me, and as if I might
expect a bomb at any moment.

We had never in all our lives seen so many flies as at Ladysmith. We had to hurry over our
meals as they made eating almost an impossibility to us. Fortunately, I was only a short time
there, as towards the end of January, 1900, part of our commando, including my brother and
myself, was sent to the Tugela as reinforcement. We had a distance of four and a half hours
to ride, and we had to ride hard, as the enemy were determined to force their way through.
We arrived the same day, just two days after the enemy had tried to force their way through
to the right of Spion Kop and had been defeated. On nearing the high Tugela mountains we heard
more and more distinctly the constant rattling of bullets, interrupted by the roar of the cannon
and the bom-bom-bom of our saucy bomb-Maxim, that made our hearts expand and those of the enemy
shrink. As we raced on to the foot of the mountains, the bullets that the enemy were sending
over the mountains to find the Boers raised the dust around us.

The following morning we went to lie in a trench that had been dug by our men on a rise to
the right of Spion Kop. The previous day eight burghers had been wounded there. Red Danie Opperman
was Field-Cornet. Not far from us, to our left, stood a few of our cannon, and facing us, to
our left, on the long mountain slope, we could see fourteen guns of the enemy's. In front of
us was a large wood, and close to that the English camp. We could see the enemy moving in great
close square masses. It was a terribly hot day; we had to lie in the trenches, as all day long
the enemy fired at us from the smaller positions facing us, at a distance of 15,000 paces;
and constantly the bombs burst over our heads. At regular intervals a lyddite bomb--that gave
us a shock through our whole body--came from the wood towards the cannon on our left. Once
only part of our entrenchment, where, fortunately, no one happened to be, was blown to bits.

Whenever there was a moment's pause, we lifted our heads above the trenches to have a look
at the lovely landscape and at the positions of our enemy. That day not one of us was wounded.
Only the artillery suffered. If our few cannon ventured to make themselves heard, eight or
more bombs followed in quick succession to silence them. Next to me lay a man whose servant,
a restless, impatient Bushman, most amicably addressed him as Johnny. The Bushman went to and
fro continually to a 'chum' of his who lay hidden behind a rock close to us. Once, on one of
his visits to his 'chum,' a bullet struck the ground close to his heels; he stood still, looked
slowly and defiantly from his heels to the enemy, and said in a most emphatic tone, 'You confounded
Englishman!' and calmly proceeded on his way to his chum.

To the right of this position was an open space, almost level with the immediate surroundings,
but ending in a steep decline some 900 paces further on. There we went towards evening with
a reinforcement of the Pretoria town commando that had followed us. The Field-Cornet made us
stand in rows, and told off forty men to dig a trench that night. The rest of the men would
relieve us the following night. My brother and I were in the first shift. Towards morning,
while we were still digging at the trenches, fire was opened across the whole line of battle.
We imagined that we were being attacked, and jammed ourselves in the narrow trench. But as
the attack did not come off, and the bullets flew high over our heads, we went on digging until
daybreak. Then we noticed that the enemy were lying in a trench about 800 paces ahead of us.
We fired a few shots at them, but saved our ammunition for an eventual storming.

The whole of that day and the two succeeding days there was a constant salvo over our heads.
The bullets flew over our heads like finches, and did us no harm, but we had to be on our guard
against the sharpshooters, who occasionally fired close to us. That day (January 24), the heroic
Battle of Spion Kop took place, where our burghers, after having been surprised in the night
by the enemy and driven off the kop, obliged them, after a stubborn fight, to abandon it again.
The Pretoria men, who were to have relieved us in the trench, took a great part in that battle.
Reineke, Yeppe, Malherbe, De Villiers, and Olivier were killed. Ihrige was severely wounded.

All day long we lay listening to the fighting, for we could not sleep. We had to stay in the
trench three days and four nights before we were relieved. Water and food were brought to us,
or fetched by our men at night, as we did not venture to leave the trench by day. We were safe
enough, for the bombs had not much effect on the sand-walls of our trench, and there was always
time to stoop to avoid them. The following morning news was brought to us that the enemy had
abandoned the whole line of battle and were retreating in the direction of Chieveley.

The battle of the Tugela had lasted eight days.

I had again hurt my knee, and had to leave Ladysmith for Pretoria, from whence I went to Warmbad
at Waterberg to stay for a few weeks with Mrs. Klein-Frikkie Grobler, who received me most
kindly. My brother Frits got leave for the first time then, too, and Willem remained at Ladysmith.
During my absence the English broke through at Pieter's Heights, where Willem was made prisoner
and Lüttig, Malherbe and Stuart de Villiers were killed. Meanwhile Frits had gone, with some
other Pretoria men, to the Orange Free State, where the enemy had surrounded General Cronje.

Since the beginning of the siege our burghers always thought the town would fall soon. 'The
khakies cannot hold out any longer! They have no provisions, and their ammunition must be coming
to an end! Buller can never cross the Tugela, our positions are too good! What does it matter
if I do go on leave? The khakies cannot get through!' That was the opinion of most of the burghers.
And if anyone ventured to point out that the enemy might force their way through because we
did not all do our duty, he was either not believed or looked upon as a traitor. Meanwhile
enthusiasm was dying out. The burghers lay in their lagers or went home, trusting to the few
willing ones, who ultimately proved not strong enough to withstand the overwhelming force that
Buller brought to bear upon one point of our positions when he was obliged to force his way
through at no matter what cost.

No leave should have been given during the war, and here I may as well mention--although this
tale does not pretend to be a history of the war--that it has been carried on with far too
great laxity, owing to the ignorance of our Generals and the demoralizing influence of self-interest
and nepotism. We should have sent our forces far into the Cape Colony to get help from our
brothers in a war that had been forced upon us by England. The Colonial Afrikanders never had
the opportunity of standing by us, because we did not supply them with the necessary ammunition
or stretch out our hands towards them. Unless they had help from our invading forces, they
dared not risk a rising, because of the confiscation of their property in case of failure.

We have had to suffer--to suffer cruelly for our sins. Our enemy forced his way through the
dyke that surrounded us, and like a stormy sea he ruined our homes, devastated our fields,
and caused us endless suffering. Besides this, the talk of intervention had an enervating effecton
the commandos. In our commando, which was largely composed of ignorant men, the strangest stories
went round. One was that the Russians had landed somewhere in South Africa with 100 cannon.
There was always talk of a great European War having broken out; and the consequence was that
the Boers counted on intervention or help from the Powers, instead of depending on their own
strength and perseverance. The most sensible among us recognised the improbability of intervention.
It was not to the interest of any foreign Power to intervene in South Africa where it had no
firm footing, particularly as Chamberlain had, by most cunning artifices, forced us to be the
aggressors.

War was inevitable. Sooner or later it had to come. After the Jameson Raid, which was really
the beginning of the war, the Transvaal Government recognised the dangerous position in which
it stood, as an isolated Republic, and was therefore obliged to arm itself with the most modern
of military equipments. Before the Jameson Raid race hatred was dying out rapidly. The consequence
of the raid was that the gap between Boer and Englishman widened, the sympathy of the Uitlanders
for us grew deeper, and the Afrikander Bond grew stronger. England's prestige in South Africa
was threatened, and with it her rank as first Power in the world. She had to maintain her supremacy
in South Africa; while for us it had become a question of all or nothing. England has evidently
succeeded in keeping up such friendly relations with the other Powers that no intervention
seems possible.

The relief of Ladysmith took place on February 28--a Majuba Day--a day that had been marked
as a red-letter day in our calendars. For nineteen years the enemy have longed to wipe out
the remembrance of that day, and they have done so brilliantly and malignantly. Since that
time we have been humiliated and belittled. Our fall was great. For the first time there was
a general panic. The two Republics, being forced to venture on war against a powerful kingdom,
felt themselves staggering under the heavy blow.

IV

DEWETSDRIFT--RETURN TO, AND FLIGHT FROM, PRETORIA

After the relief of Kimberley and Ladysmith we imagined that the decisive battles would soon
follow. Although my knee was not yet cured, I went to Glencoe, whither our commandos had retreated.
I was not five days there when I had to leave, being unfit for active service. Again I went
to Warmbad for some weeks with Mr. Burgemeester Potgieter and his family, and on my return
to Pretoria remained in my office until the beginning of May.

Meanwhile Frits had returned from the Free State, and my knee was cured. We each bought ourselves
a sturdy pony, and left, with some other burghers, by train for Klerksdorp, from where we went
on to Dewetsdrift, on the Vaal River. General Viljoen was guarding the drift there with some
hundreds of burghers. We rode from there some four or five hours into the Free State to spy
the movements of the enemy.

From Dewetsdrift we went, under Commandant Boshoff, to Schoemansdrift, Venterskroon, and Lindequidrift.
Our division formed part of the escort for the guns. Our route lay through beautiful scenery.
The Vaal twists and bends between two high mountains that curve on either side like the roads
the khaki makes with his double row of waggons over the hills of the Hoogeveld. In every opening
of the mountains lies a farm, a mean little house, but among well-cultivated fields. In nearly
every farm the family was grieving for one of its members who had been taken prisoner along
with Cronje, and of whose fate they were in ignorance. The people received us very kindly.
Everywhere we got milk and biscuits, and we found afterwards that those people were the kindest
who had suffered the most from the war.

As the enemy were already on their way to Johannesburg, we had to retreat as rapidly as possible,
first to Bank Station, near Potchefstroom, and then by train to Langlaagte. To the north-west
of Johannesburg we had a skirmish with the enemy, who attacked us as we were feeding our horses.
It appeared that our guard was not on duty. I have never seen horses saddled so quickly. Most
of the burghers rode off and left us behind with the guns. One ammunition waggon stuck in the
mud, and was left behind, but was brought in safety to Pretoria by Frans Lottering, a comrade
of mine, who rode back for it with some gunners when we had fled. Lottering was given a sword
by General de la Rey for his brave conduct. Through negligence on the part of our officers
we lost on that occasion one gun, several waggons, and some of our men.

Almost all night long we retreated with our guns to Pretoria. We had not lost courage. We all
spoke of the thorough way in which our Government would have fortified Pretoria, and of the
great battle that would take place there. We had all made up our minds to a stubborn resistance
at our capital. What a bitter disappointment it was to find that our Government had decided
not to defend the town! The causes that led to such a decision will be brought to light by
historians. The consequences were that many of the burghers were discouraged, and rode 'huis-toe,'
and nothing came of the great battle that was to have been fought.

Frits and I decided to give our horses a few days' rest in their stables before going to meet
the enemy.

On June 4, at about twelve o'clock, while we were at luncheon, a lyddite bomb fell close to
the fort, raising a cloud of dust. My mother went outside, and came back quickly to tell us
that it was not a shot from the fort, but from the enemy. The bombs followed in quick succession.
They flew over Schanskop fort, and fell close to our house at Sunnyside. As the ground was
rocky they exploded well. My mother and sister fled with our neighbours to the town, and my
brother and I saddled our horses and rode off to Quaggaspoort.

From over the mountains, to the south of the town, the bombs came flying as a gentle warning
from the khakies that it would be better to surrender in order to avoid a great calamity.

It was sad to see how few horses there were at the foot of the mountain. Here a group of four,
there of ten--a sign that the number of burghers in the positions was very small indeed. When
the enemy appeared at Quaggaspoort, we noticed that the burghers from the direction of Krokodil
River were retreating, and a moment later they were all in full flight. One of my comrades,
a brother of Lottering, was wounded in the arm by a shell as he fled, and had to remain behind
in Pretoria. That night my brother and I spent in our own home, but we left the town the following
morning in the direction of Silverton, just before the enemy entered.

It would be well to try and understand the condition of our country and the temper of our burghers.

As the capital was in the hands of the enemy, it was easy enough to convince our simple-minded
men that our country was irretrievably lost to us. Therefore a period of discouragement and
demoralization followed. Many burghers, also, who had all along fought bravely now remained
behind in the towns or on their farms, not daring to leave their wives and daughters at the
mercy of the soldiers. We may not judge those men, neither need we consider it to our credit
that we, either from a sense of duty or from a spirit of adventure, acted differently. There
were many also who argued that the Government was corrupt, and that the war should have been
prevented, or that the Boers did not want to fight. So they also became unfaithful to the cause,
and to those along with whom they began the war. And the name of 'hands-upper' was earned by
those burghers who of their own free will surrendered to the enemy. The chaff was divided from
the grain; cowards and traitors remained behind, and the willing ones went to the veld, even
though it were in a retreating direction. We were still very hopeful. There were still the
good positions in the Lydenberg district, and we had heard that De Wet had cut the line of
communication behind the enemy. We also still had an intact line to Delagoa Bay.

My brother and I met our old comrade Frans Loitering, and the three of us went in search of
General Grobler of Waterberg, who lay with his commando to the east of Pretoria at Franspoort,
near Donkerhoek. There we joined his commando. Our camp was put up near a Kaffir location,
and as the Kaffirs were clean, we often bought boiled sweet potatoes and crushed maize from them.

Nothing particular happened at Franspoort. To the right and left of us some desperate fighting
went on for several days, and at Donkerhoek a fierce battle took place, but we were not attacked.

When the news came that the enemy had broken through our lines at Donkerhoek, and that we had
to retreat, my brother and I left Grobler's commando. Thinking that the commandos would fall
back upon the positions of Belfast, we went to Middelburg to an uncle of ours, the missionary
Jan Maré, in order to give our horses a rest. We had lost sight of our comrade Frans. On our
way we bought bread at the farms, or had it given us, cut a piece off an ox that had been slaughtered
for the commando, and slept either in a manger or, as was more often the case, in the open
air of the cold Hoogeveld. We arrived at Middelburg completely exhausted, and are not likely
to forget our uncle's great hospitality.

We accidentally met our former Commandant, Boshoff, who told us that he was on his way with
ten men to join General de la Rey, who had gone in the direction of Rustenburg to cut the enemy's
line of communication between Mafeking and Pretoria, and we very willingly joined him, after
a delightful rest of ten days.

The commando of Commandant Boshoff consisted of nine burghers with an ambulance waggon--that
was used for the commissariat and for our bedding--a French doctor, two Kaffirs and two tents.
It seemed as if we were going for a picnic. But it was necessary that we should be well provided
with all sorts of things, as our journey would be through the Boschland, where fever and horse-sickness
play havoc with man and horse in summer. In winter it is endurable for a few months only, so
the country is very scarcely populated and almost uncultivated, and in winter the Boers trek
there with their cattle from the bare, chill Hoogeveld. I had always longed to see that part
of the Transvaal.

V

TREK FROM MIDDELBURG TO RUSTENBURG--BATTLE OF SELIKATSNEK

Some hours north of Middelburg one suddenly leaves the high plateau of the Boschveld for a
difficult road that curves steadily downwards between two high mountains until it reaches a
wide, thickly-wooded valley. In the kloof (mountain-pass) a swiftly-flowing river cuts the
road that goes along its banks, in several places, before it loses itself in the Olifants River.
There the song of many birds, not to be found on the Hoogeveld, can be heard, and there it
was delightfully warm, in comparison with the chilly air of the Hoogeveld. Of an evening we
made large fires, as there was plenty of dry wood. We sat round the fire, chatting or listening
to the comic songs which one of our comrades sang. It was a happy time--away from khaki, far
beyond reach of the roar of cannon--a time of rest in preparation for the evil days that awaited
us.

