It grew intolerable--intolerable; he was beaten, mocked, and almost a maniac. Escape--escape!
Oh, blessed thought! into the wild free woods! there, with the birds and flowers, hill and
dale, fresh air and liberty! Oh, glad hope--mad hope! His habitual cunning came to his aid;
he schemed, he contrived, he accomplished. The jutting heads of the rivets having been diligently
rubbed away from his galling fetter by a big stone--a toil of weeks--he one day stood unshackled,
having watched his time to be alone. An axe was in his hand, and the saved single dinner of
pea-bread. That beetled-browed task-master slumbered in the hut; that brother convict--(why
need he care for him, too? every one for himself in this world)--that kinder, humbler, better
man was digging in the open; if he wants to escape, let him think of himself: John Dillaway
has enough to take care for. Now, then; now, unobserved, unsuspected; now is the chance! Joy,
life, and liberty! Oh, glorious prospect--for this inland world is unexplored.

He stole away, with panting heart, and fearfully exulting eye; he ran--ran--ran, for miles--it
may have been scores of them--till night-fall, on the soft and pleasant greensward under those
high echoing woods. None pursued; safe--safe; and deliciously he slept that night beneath a
spreading wattle-tree, after the first sweet meal of freedom.

Next morning, waked up like the starting kangaroos around him (for John Dillaway had not bent
the knee in prayer since childhood), off he set triumphant and refreshed: his arm was strong,
and he trusted in it, his axe was sharp, and he looked to that for help; he knew no other God.
Off he set for miles--miles--miles: still that continuous high acacia wood, though less naturally
park-like, often-times choked with briars, and here and there impervious a-head. Was it all
this same starving forest to the wide world's end? He dug for roots, and found some acrid bulbs
and tubers, which blistered up his mouth; but he was hungry, and ate them; and dreaded as he
ate. Were they poisonous? Next to it, Dillaway; so he hurried eagerly to dilute their griping
juices with the mountain streams near which he slept: the water was at least kindly cooling
to his hot throat; he drank huge draughts, and stayed his stomach.

Next morning, off again: why could he not catch and eat some of those half-tame antelopes?
Ha! He lay in wait hours--hours, near the torrent to which they came betimes to slake their
thirst: but their beautiful keen eyes saw him askance--and when he rashly hoped to hunt one
down afoot, they went like the wind for a minute--then turned to look at him afar off, mockingly--poor,
panting, baffled creeper.

No; give it up--this savoury hope of venison; he must go despondently on and on; and he filled
his belly with grass. Must he really starve in this interminable wood! He dreamt that night
of luxurious city feasts, the turtle, turbot, venison, and champagne; and then how miserably
weak he woke. But he must on wearily and lamely, for ever through this wood--objectless, except
for life and liberty. Oh, that he could meet some savage, and do him battle for the food he
carried; or that a dead bird, or beast, or snake lay upon his path; or that one of those skipping
kangaroos would but come within the reach of his oft-aimed hatchet! No: for all the birds and
flowers, and the free wild woods, and hill, and dale, and liberty, he was starving--starving;
so he browsed the grass as Nebuchadnezzar in his lunacy. And the famished wretch would have
gladly been a slave again.

Next morning, he must lie and perish where he slept, or move on: he turned to the left, not
to go on for ever; probably, ay, too probably, he had been creeping round a belt. Oh, precious
thought of change! for within three hours there was light a-head, light beneath the tangled
underwood: he struggled through the last cluster of thick bushes, longing for a sight of fertile
plain, and open country. Who knows? are there not men dwelling there with flocks and herds,
and food and plenty? Yes--yes, and Dillaway will do among them yet. You envious boughs, delay
me not! He tore aside the last that hid his view, and found that he was standing on the edge
of an ocean of sand--hot yellow sand to the horizon!

He fainted--he had like to have died; but as for prayer--he only muttered curses on this bitter,
famishing disappointment. He dared not strike into the wood again--he dared not advance upon
that yellow sea exhausted and unprovisioned: it was his wisdom to skirt the wood; and so he
trampled along weakly--weakly. This liberty to starve is horrible!

Is it, John Dillaway? What, have you no compunctions at that word starve? no bitter, dreadful
recollections? Remember poor Maria, that own most loving sister, wanting bread through you.
Remember Henry Clements, and their pining babe; remember your own sensual feastings and fraudulent
exultation, and how you would utterly have starved the good, the kind, the honest! This same
bitter cup is filled for your own lips, and you must drink it to the dregs. Have you no compunctions,
man? nothing tapping at your heart? for you must starve!

No! not yet--not yet! for chance (what Dillaway lyingly called chance)--in his moments of remorse
at these reflections, when God had hoped him penitent at last, and, if he still continued so,
might save him--sent help in the desert! For, as he reelingly trampled along on the rank herbage
between this forest and that sea of sand, just as he was dying of exhaustion, his faint foot
trod upon a store of life and health! It was an Emeu's ill-protected nest; and he crushed,
where he had trodden, one of those invigorating eggs. Oh, joy--joy--no thanks--but sensual
joy! There were three of them, and each one meat for a day; ash-coloured without, but the within--the
within--full of sweet and precious yolk! Oh, rich feast, luscious and refreshing: cheer up--cheer
up: keep one to cross the desert with: ay--ay, luck will come at last to clever Jack! how shrewd
it was of me to find those eggs!

Thus do the wicked forget thee, blessed God! thou hast watched this bad man day by day, and
all the dark nights through, in tender expectation of some good: Thou hast been with him hourly
in that famishing forest, tempting him by starvation to--repentance; and how gladly did Thine
eager mercy seize this first opportunity of half-formed penitence to bless and help him--even
him, liberally and unasked! Thanks to Thee--thanks to Thee! Why did not that man thank Thee?
Who more grieved at his thanklessness than Thou art? Who more sorry for the righteous and necessary
doom which the impenitence of heartlessness drags down upon itself?

And Providence was yet more kind, and man yet more ungrateful; mercy abounding over the abundant
sin. For the famished vagrant diligently sought about for more rich prizes; and, as the manner
is of those unnatural birds to leave their eggs carelessly to the hatching of the sunshine,
he soon stumbled on another nest. "Ha--ha!" said he, "clever Jack Dillaway of Broker's alley
isn't done up yet: no--no, trust him for taking care of number one; now then for the desert;
with these four huge eggs and my trusty hatchet, deuce take it, but I'll manage somehow!"

Thus, deriving comfort from his bold hard heart, he launched unhesitatingly upon that sea of
sand: with aching toil through the loose hot soil he ploughed his weary way, footsore, for
leagues--leagues--lengthened leagues; yellow sand all round, before, and on either hand, as
far as eye can stretch, and behind and already in the distance that terrible forest of starvation.
But what, then, is the name of this burnt plain, unwatered by one liquid drop, unvisited even
by dews in the cold dry night? Have you not yet found a heart, man, to thank Heaven for that
kind supply of recreative nourishment, sweet as infant's food, the rich delicious yolk, which
bears up still your halting steps across this world of sand? No heart--no heart of flesh--but
a stone--a cold stone, and hard as yonder rocky hillock.

He climbed it for a view--and what a view! a panorama of perfect desolation, a continent of
vegetable death. His spirit almost failed within him; but he must on--on, or perish where he
stood. Taking no count of time, and heedless as to whither he might wander, so it be not back
again along that awful track of liberty he longed for, he crept on by little and little, often
resting, often dropping for fatigue, night and day--day and night: he had made his last meal;
he laid him down to die--and already the premonitory falcon flapped him with its heavy wing.
Ha! what are all those carrion fowls congregated there for? Are they battening on some dead
carcase? O, hope--hope! there is the smell of food upon the wind: up, man, up--battle with
those birds, drive them away, hew down that fierce white eagle with your axe; what right have
they to precious food, when man, their monarch, starves? So, the poor emaciated culprit seized
their putrid prey, and the scared fowls hovered but a little space above, waiting instinctively
for this new victim: they had not left him much--it was a feast of remnants--pickings from
the skeleton of some small creature that had perished in the desert--a wombat, probably, starved
upon its travels; but a royal feast it was to that famishing wretch: and, gathering up the
remainder of those priceless morsels, which he saved for some more fearful future, again he
crept upon his way. Still the same, night and day--day and night--for he could only travel
a league a-day: and at length, a shadowy line between the sand and sky--far, far off, but circling
the horizon as a bow of hope. Shall it be a land of plenty, green, well-watered meadows, the
pleasant homes of man, though savage, not unfriendly? O hope, unutterable! or is it (O despair!)
another of those dreadful woods, starving solitude under the high-arched gum-trees.

Onward he crept; and the line on the horizon grew broader and darker: onward, still; he was
exulting, he had conquered, he was bold and hard as ever. He got nearer, now within some dozen
miles; it was an indistinct distance, but green at any rate; huzza--never mind night-fall;
he cannot wait, nor rest, with this Elysium before him: so he toiled along through all the
black night, and a friendly storm of rain refreshed him, as his thirsty pores drank in the
cooling stream. Aha! by morning's dawn he should be standing on the edge of that green paradise,
fresh as a young lion, and no thanks to any one but his own shrewd indomitable self.

Morning dawned--and through the vague twilight loomed some high and tangled wall of green foliage,
stretching seemingly across the very world. Most sickening sight! a matted, thorny jungle,
one of those primeval woods again, but closer, thicker, darker than the park-like one before;
rank and prickly herbage in a rotting swamp, crowding up about the stately trees. Must he battle
his way through? Well, then, if it must be so, he must and will; any thing rather than this
hot and blistering sand. If he is doomed by fate to starve, be it in the shade, not in that
fierce sun. So, he weakly plied his hatchet, flinging himself with boldness on that league-thick
hedge of thorns; his way was choked with thorns; he struggled under tearing spines, and through
prickly underwood, and over tangled masses of briery plants, clinging to him every where around,
as with a thousand taloned claws; he is exhausted, extrication is impossible; he beats the
tough creepers with his dulled hatchet, as a wounded man vainly; ha! one effort more--a dying
effort--must he be impaled upon these sharp aloes, and strange-leafed prickly shrubs; they
have caught him there, those thirsty poisoned hooks, innumerable as his sins; his way, whichever
way he looks, is hedged up high with thorns--thick-set thorns--sturdy, tearing thorns, that
he cannot battle through them. Emaciated, bleeding, rent, fainting, famished, he must perish
in the merciless thicket into which hard-heartedness had flung him!

Before he was well dead, those flapping carrion fowls had found him out; they were famishing
too, and half forgot their natural distaste for living meat. He fought them vainly, as the
dying fight; soon there were other screams in that echoing solitude, besides the screeching
falcons! and when they reached his heart (if its matter aptly typified its spirit), that heart
should have been a very stone for hardness.

So let the selfish die! alone, in the waste howling wilderness; so let him starve uncared-for,
whose boast it was that he had never felt for other than himself--who mocked God, and scorned
man--whose motto throughout life, one sensual, unsympathizing, harsh routine, was this: "Take
care of the belly, and the heart will take care of itself!"--who never had a wish for other's
good, a care for other's evil, a thought beyond his own base carcase; who was a man--no man--a
wretch, without a heart. So let him perish miserably; and the white eagles pick his skeleton
clean in yonder tangled jungle!

CHAPTER XIX.

WHEREIN MATTERS ARE CONCLUDED.

Certain folks at Ballyriggan, near Belfast, observe to me, with not a little Irish truth, that
it is by no means easy to conclude a history never intended to be finished. It so happens that
my good friends the clan Clements are still enjoying life and all it sweets, beneficent in
their generation; and as for their hearts' affections, that story without an end will still
be heard, ringing on its happy changes, in the presence of God and of his immortal train, when
every reader of these records shall have been to this world dead. Out of the heart are the
issues of life, and within, it is life's well-spring. Death is but a little narrow gate, in
a dark rough pass among the mountains, where each must go alone, one by one, in solemn silence,
for the avalanches hanging overhead; one by one, in breathless caution, for there is but barely
a footing; one by one, for none can help his brother on the track: the steady eye of faith,
the firm foot of righteousness, the staff of hope to comfort and support--these be the only
helps. And each one carries with him, as his sole possession on that lonely journey, no heaps
of wealth--no trappings of honour; these burdens of the camel must all be lifted off, ere he
can struggle through that gully in the rocks--"The Needle's Eye;" but the sole possession which
every wayfarer must take with him into those broad plains where only Spirit can be seen, and
Sin no longer can be hid, is the shrine of his affections, the casket of his precious pearls
in life--his Heart, unmantled and unmasked. And if in time it had been a well of love, flowing
towards God in penitence, and irrigating this world's garden with charities and blessed works,
that little sparkling stream shall then burst forth from this rocky portal of the grave, a
river of joy and peace, to gladden even more the sunny provinces of heaven. For the heart with
its affections, never dieth: they may, indeed, flow inward, and corrupt to selfishness; becoming
then, in lieu of fountains of waters, gushing forth to everlasting life, a bottomless volcano
of hot lava, tempestuous and involved, setting up the creature as his own foul god, and living
the perpetual death-bed of the damned; or they may nobly burst the banks of self, and, rising
momentarily higher and higher, till every Nilometer is drowned, will seek for ever, with expanding
strength, to reach the unapproachable level of that source in the Most Highest whence they
originally sprung. For this cause, the kindest fatherly word which ever reached man's ear,
the surest scheme for happiness that ever touched his reason, was one from God's own heart--"My
son, give me thy heart."

They lived upon the blessing of that Word, our noble, kindly pair. To enlarge upon the thought
as respects a better world is well for those who will: for if He that made the eye and framed
the ear, by the stronger argument Himself must see and hear, so he that fashioned loveliness
and moulded the affections, how well-deserving must that Beautiful Spirit be of his rational
creature's heart! Away with mawkish cant and stale sentimentalities! let us think, and speak,
and feel as men, framed by nature's urgent law to the lovely and to hate the vile. Oh, that
the advocates for Him, the Good One, would oftener plead His cause by the human affections--by
generosity, by sympathy, by gentleness and patience, by self-denying love, and soul absolving
beauty; for these are of the essence of God, and their spiritual influence on reason. A child
writes upon his heart that warmer code of morals, which the iron tool of threatening availeth
not to grave upon the rock, while the voice of love can change that rock into a spring of water.

But we must descend from our altitudes, and speak of lower things; for the time and space forbid
much longer intrusion on your courtesy. A few ravelling threads of this our desultory tale
have yet to be gathered up, as tidily as may be. Suffer, then, such mingling of my thoughts:
the web I weave has many threads, woven with divers colours. Human nature is nothing if not
inconsistent; and I have no more notion of irreverence in turning from a high topic to a low
one, than a bee may be fancied to have of irrelevant idleness in flitting from the sweet violet
to the scented dahlia. We may gather honey out of every flower. Have you not often noticed,
that riches generally come to a man, when he least stands in need of them? Directly a middle-aged
heir succeeds to his long-expected heritage, half-a-dozen aunts and second cousins are sure
to die off and leave him super-abounding legacies, any one of which would have helped his poverty
stricken youth, and made him of independent mind throughout his servile manhood. The other
day (the idea remains the same, though the fact is to be questioned) the richest lord in Europe
dug up a chest of hoarded coins, many thousand pound's worth, simply because he didn't want
it: and, if such particularization were not improper or invidious, you or I might name a brace
of friends a-piece, who, having once lacked bread in the career of life, suddenly have found
themselves monopolizing two or three great fortunes. As too few things are certain, novel writers
less like truth in their descriptions, than where ample wealth falls upon the hero just in
the nick of time. Providence intends to teach by penury: yes, and by prosperity too: and we
almost never see the reward given, or the no less reward withheld, just as the scholar has
begun to spell his lesson, and before he has had the chance of getting it by heart.

That another death should occur, in the progress of this tale, must be counted for no fault
of mine; especially as I am not about to introduce another death-bed. One need not have the
mummy always at our feasts. Surely, too, these deaths have ever been on fit occasion: one broken
heart; one bereaved, yet comforted; and one which perished in its sin of uttermost hard-heartedness.
And here, if any insurance clerk, or other interested person, will show cause why Mrs. Jane
Mackenzie should not die at the age of ninety-two, I would keep her alive if I could; but the
fact is, I cannot: she died. Henry Clements never saw her, any more that I, nor dear Maria.
But that was no earthly reason wherefore--

First, Maria should not bewail the dear old relative's loss with all her heart and eyes, and
children and household in mourning.

Nor, secondly, wherefore Mrs. Jane Mackenzie, aforesaid, of Ballyriggan, province of Ulster,
should not leave her estate of Ballyriggan, aforesaid, and a vast heap of other property, to
the only surviving though distant scion of her family, Henry Clements.

Nor, thirdly, wherefore I should not record the fact, as duly bound in my capacity of honest
historian.

This accession of property was large, almost overwhelming, when added to Maria's patrimony
of three thousand a-year, the produce of St. Benet's Sherehog: for besides and beyond a considerable
breadth of Irish acres, sundry houses in Belfast, and an accumulation of half-forgotten funds,
the Bank of England found itself necessitated (from particular circumstances of ill-caution
in its servants) to refund the whole of that twelve thousand forty-three pounds bank annuities,
which Jack Dillaway and his ladies had already made away with.

Rich, however, as Clements had become, he felt himself only as a great lord's steward to help
a needy world; and I never heard that he spent a sixpence more upon himself, his equipage,
or his family, from being some thousands a-year richer: though I certainly did hear that, owing
to this legacy, every tenant upon Ballyriggan, and a vast number of struggling families in
Spitalfields and round about St. Benet's, had ample cause to bless Heaven and the good man
of Finsbury square. As for dear Maria, it rejoiced her generous heart to find that Henry (whose
gentlemanly pride had all along been reproaching him for pauperism) was now become pretty well
her equal in wealth; even as her humility long had known him her superior in mind, good looks,
and good family.

Another thread in my discourse, hanging loosely on the world, concerns our lady-legatees. What
became of Miss Julia, after the safe and successful issue of that vengeful trial, I never heard:
and, perhaps, it may be wise not to inquire: if she changed her name, she did not change her
nature: and is probably still to be numbered among the sect of Strand peripatetics.

But of Anna Bates I have pleasanter news to tell. With respect to repentance, let us be charitable,
and hope, even if we cannot be so sanguine as firmly to believe; but at any rate we may rest
assured of an outward reformation, and an honest manner of life. The miracle happened thus:
After the trial and condemnation of Dillaway, poor Anna Bates felt entirely disappointed that
she had not the chance of better things presented to her mind by transportation; the two approvers,
to her dismay--poor thing!--were graciously pardoned for their evidence; and, whereas, the
one of them returned to her old courses more devotedly than ever, the other resolved to make
one strong effort to extricate her loathing self from the gulf in which she lay. Fortunately
for her, our Maria had the heart to pity and to help a frail and fallen sister; and when the
poor disconsolate woman, finding her to be the sister of that evil paramour, came to Mrs. Clements
in distress, revealing all her past sins and sorrows, and pleading for some generous hand to
lift her out of that miserable state, she did not plead in vain. Maria spurned her not away,
nor coldly disbelieved her promise of amendment; but, taking counsel of her husband, she gave
the poor woman sufficient means of setting up a milliner's shop at Hull, where, under her paternal
name of Stellingburne, our Fleet street lady-legatee still survives, earning a decent livelihood,
and little suspected amongst her kindly neighbours of ever having been much worse than a strictly
honest woman.

For another thread, if the reader, in his ample curiosity, wishes to be informed how it became
possible for me to learn the fate of Dillaway, let him know, that up to the hour of escape,
I derived it easily from living witnesses; and thereafter, that certain settlers, having set
out to explore the country, found a human skeleton stretched upon a thicket which, from the
débris of convicts' clothes, and the hatchet stamped with his initials, was easily decided
to be that bad man's. It always had struck me, as a remarkable piece of retribution, that whereas
John made Austral shares a plea for ruining Henry Clements, a howling Austral wilderness was
made the means of starving him. Maria never heard what became of her brother; but still looks
for his return some day with affectionate and earnest expectation.

Another little matter to be mentioned is the fact, that Henry Clements, in his leisure from
business, and freedom from care, resolved to attain some literary glories; and first, he published
his now-renowned tragedy of 'Boadicea,' with his name at length, giving a mint of proceeds
to that very proper charity the Theatrical Fund. Secondly, he followed up his tragic triumph
by a splendid 'Caractacus,' by way of a companion picture. Thirdly, he turned to his maligned
law-treatise on Defence, and boldly published a capital vindication thereof, flinging down
his gauntlet to the judges both of law and literature. It was strange, by the way, and instructive
also, to find with what a deferential air the wealthy writer now was listened to; and how meekly
both 'Watchman' and 'Corinthian' kissed the smiling hand of the literary genius, who--gave
such sumptuous dinners; for Henry, of his mere kindness, (not bribery--don't imagine him so
weak,) now that he was known as a Mæcenas amongst authors, made no invidious distinctions between
literary magnates, but effectually overcame evil with good by his hearty hospitality to 'Corinthian'
and 'Watchman' editors, as well as to other potent wielders of the pen of fame, who had erst-while
favoured the productions of his genius.

The last dinner he gave, I, an old friend of the family, was present; and when the ladies went
up-stairs, I had, as usual, the honour of enacting vice. It was according to Finsbury taste
and custom, to produce toasts and speeches; whether cold high-breeding would have sanctioned
this or not, little matters: it was warm and cordial, and we all liked it; moreover, finding
ourselves at Rome, we unanimously did as other Romans do: and this I take to be politeness.
Among the speeches, that which proposed the health of the host and hostess caused the chiefest
roar of clamorous joy: it was a happy-looking friend who spoke, and what he said was much as
follows:

"Clements, my dear fellow, you are the happiest man I know--except myself; at least, in one
thing I am happier--for I can call you friend, whereas you can only return the compliment with
such a sorry substitute as I am."

[This ingenious flattery was much ridiculed afterwards; but I pledge my word the man intended
what he said; moreover, he went on, utterly regardless of surrounding critics, in all the seeming
egotism of a warm and open heart.]

"Clements--I cannot help telling you how heartily I love you;" (Hear, hear!) "and I wish I
had known you thirty years instead of three, to have said so with the unction of my earliest
recollections: but we cannot help antiquity, you know. Let us all the rather make up now by
heartiness for all lost time. I think, nay, am sure, that I speak the language of all present
in telling you I love you:" (an enormous hear-hearing, which rose above the drawing-room floor;
Harry Clements singularly distinguished himself, in proving how he loved his father; a fine
young fellow he grows too, and I wish, between ourselves, to catch him for a son-in-law some
day;)--"Yes, Clements, I do love you, and your children, and your wife, for there is the charm
of heart about you all: in yourself, in your Maria, in that fine frank youth, and those dear
warm girls up stairs" (every word was bravoed to the echo), "in every one of you, all the charities
and amenities, all the kindnesses and the cheerfulness of life appear to be embodied; you love
both God and man; the rich and the poor alike may bless you, Clements, and your admirable Maria;
whilst, as for yourselves, you may both well thank God, whose mercy made you what you are."

Clements hid his face, and Harry sobbed with joyfulness.

"Friends! a toast and sentiment, with all the honours: 'This happy family! and may all who
know them now, or come to hear of them in future, cultivate as they do all the home affections,
and acknowledge that there is no wealth of man's, which may compare with riches of the heart.'"