'Tis such Dealings drive the poor Devils to all the little Shifts and Tricks imaginable. I
went one day into a Tavern near Charing-Cross, to inquire after a Person whom I knew had once
us'd the House: The Mistress being in the Bar, cry'd out, What an unfortunate thing it was,
Mr. ---- being that instant gone out of the House, and was surprized I did not meet him at
the Door; but that he had left Word he expected a Gentleman to come to him, and would return
immediately. I staid the sipping of two or three Half-pints, and begun to shew some uneasiness
that he did not come according to her Expectation; when she again wonder'd at it, saying, it
was just one of his Times of coming; for that he was a worthy good Gentleman, and constantly
whetted four or five times in a Morning. At length, being out of all patience, I paid, and
went to my Friend's House, about twenty Doors farther; where his Wife inform'd me, he had been
gone about three Months before to Jamaica.

The Bankruptcies so frequently happening among the Sons of Bacchus, are doubtless to be attributed
chiefly to such Leeches as I have been describing, lying so closely upon them; and then an
innocent industrious Man is to be call'd forsworn Rogue, Villain, and what not; and to be told
that he hath affected a Failure, to sink a dozen or fourteen Shillings in the Pound upon his
Creditors, when, in reality, he hath not a single Shilling left in the World; and shall oftentimes
be oblig'd to become a common Waiter to a more fortunate Fellow, and one perhaps too, that
he once had thoughts of circumventing in his Business and Trade, by no other means, than a
more humble and tractable Behaviour.

A Vintner, who has been look'd upon by all Mankind to have been a 20,000l. Man at least, hath
died not worth Eighteen-pence; and then the poor Wretch has been worried to his Grave, with
the Character of a private Whore-master or Gamester.

A few Years since Peter Dapper came into a naked and ruin'd Bawdy-House Tavern in the heart
of the City; he resolv'd upon a thorough Reformation of its Customs and Manners, and when a
Male and Female came in together, he order'd his Servants to shew them into the open Kitchen.
He declar'd that he would make no difference or distinction in the Price of his Wines, but
would be above-board with all Mankind. He redress'd the exorbitant Grievances of the Gridiron
and the Spit, and protested his Heart and his Larder free and open to all that should vouchsafe
to visit either. He invited all the single Mercers, Druggists, and Drapers, that lived within
sight of his Bush, to eat a piece of Mutton with him every Day at Noon, and upon the removal
of the Cloth, Peter proclaim'd a free general Indemnity and Oblivion for all the Mischief their
Forks and Knives had done to two or three substantial Dishes that stood before them. By these,
and other uncommon Acts of Generosity, he rais'd the Reputation of his House to a greater pitch
than any other in the Neighbourhood, and reap'd the Fruits of his own Labours and Ingenuity.
Peter, in a few Years, having laid hands on a good number of Acres, and got an Equipage about
his Ears, has now very fairly turn'd his A--se upon all the Taverns in the Kingdom.

A certain great BANKER, whose Name it is altogether needless to mention, (the Fact being too
well known to many Peoples Misfortune) having by some indiscreet Management greatly hurt his
Reputation, and several Stories of a suspicious nature, tending to depreciate his Character,
being whisper'd about; which coming in time to his knowledge, he thought of a notable Device
to prevent the Consequences that generally ensue on those occasions to Persons in his way of
Life. His first step was to order Glaziers and Painters to new-ornament his House in the most
genteel manner. He next hurried to the Pool, and order'd in about a hundred Chaldrons of Coals,
tho' it was the warm Season of the Year. These Circumstances seem'd to demonstrate a Continuance
in his House, and for three or four Days together, when the People came either to draw, or
bring their Cash, their was scarce a possibility of getting into the Shop, for a number of
dirty Fellows who were incessantly carrying Sacks of Coals on their Backs to the Cellars. The
Stratagem succeeded even beyond expectation; the Creditors Apprehensions clear'd up, and one
ridicul'd another for their foolish and ill-grounded Fears. The Run that was begun to be made,
not only ceased, but numbers of Strangers now thought fit to constitute him the Custodé of
their Fortunes; and the Man was look'd upon to be one of the most flourishing of his Business
in the City, and his Credit equal to that of the Bank of England. This went on for about a
Fortnight or three Weeks longer, when this pains-taking Tradesman thought fit to shut up his
Shop, and rub off with 100,000l. of his Creditors Money to Antwerp.

Another time a young Fellow, with a pitiful Patrimony, open'd a LINNEN-DRAPER'S Shop in the
heart of the City; his Stock was equal to his Fortune, and, like most raw unexperienc'd Persons,
his Soul vastly bigger than both. Tho' he set out with great Ambition, he condescended to bow
to all the Fair-Sex who pass'd his Door in Coaches or on Foot; his Success was humble, for
he bowed to little purpose. Revolving Quarters, with Rent and Taxes, were his principal Customers.
These, together with the apprehensions of his being soon named with other of his Majesty's
loving Subjects in the London Gazette, gave him great Pain and Anxiety. One Morning he bless'd
himself for a lucky Dog, having arose from his Pillow with the most happy Thought that had
ever enter'd his Head. He call'd for Pen, Ink, and Paper, and enjoining his Journeyman Secrecy,
went to his Compting-House, and drew up a Paper to the Effect following: viz. "Whereas there
was, on the 10th Day of this Instant October, dropp'd in the Shop of Mr. Probity, Linnen-Draper,
at the ...... in Cheapside, London, a green Silk Purse, in which was contain'd a large Rose
Diamond Ring, a great number of pieces of Foreign Gold, together with sundry Notes, &c. of
great value; whoever will apply to the said Mr. Probity, and prove their Property to the same,
shall have it restor'd them, on paying only the Charge of this Advertisement."

This he caused to be printed in all the publick News-Papers, and although there was no such
Purse lost, and consequently no Claim made, the Action was cry'd up through the Town as the
most just and laudable that was ever done by a Citizen, and particularly by a young Beginner;
some saying, How many were there in the World that would have been silent enough on such an
occasion? And others, Ay, Ay; if it were not for some such honest People left amongst us, the
World would never stand. Trade and Business now flow'd in so fast upon him, that he was scarce
able to undergo the Fatigue of his Shop; which was constantly crouded with Women of all Ranks
and Conditions, who, they said, were sure to meet with fairer Usage there, than in any other
in the City. His barely averring, upon the Word of an honest Man, that the Goods in dispute
lay him in more prime-cost than was bid him, would go further than the Oaths of a dozen Witnesses
in Guild-hall; and when he was urged to say, as I'm a Christian, or, if one living Soul may
believe another, it would satisfy the most Judicious and Thrifty, and remove from his Shop
the worst of Goods at the most extravagant Prices.

The great Dealer in India Goods is to sell as much China, Silks, and Muslins, &c. as he can,
by which he shall get what he proposes to be reasonable, according to the customary Profits
of his Business. As to a Lady, what she would be at, is to please her Fancy, and buy cheaper
by a Shilling or two in the Pound, than the Things she wants are commonly sold at. Upon the
approach of her Chariot to one of these Magazines of Trifles, up steps a Gentleman-like Man,
that has every thing clean and fashionable about him; who, in low obeisance, pays her homage;
and as soon as her pleasure is known that she has a mind to come in, hands her into the Shop;
where immediately he slips from her, and in half a Moment, with great Address, entrenches himself
behind the Compter. Here facing her, with a profound Reverence and modish Phrase, he begs the
favour of knowing her Commands. Let her say and dislike what she pleases, she can never be
directly contradicted. She deals with a Man in whom consummate Patience is one of the Mysteries
of his Trade; and whatever Trouble she creates, she is sure to hear nothing but the most obliging
Language; and has always before her a chearful Countenance, where Joy and Respect seem to be
blended with Good-Humour, and all together make up an artificial Serenity, more ingaging than
untaught Nature is able to produce.

When two Persons are so well met, the Conversation must be very agreeable, as well as extremely
mannerly, tho' they talk about Trifles. Whist she remains irresolute what to take, he seems
to be the same in advising her, and is very cautious how to direct her Choice: but when once
she has made it, and is fix'd, he immediately becomes positive that it is the best of the sort;
extols her Fancy, and the more he looks upon it, the more he wonders he should not before have
discovered the pre-eminence of it over any thing he has in his Shop. By Precept, Example, and
great Application, he has learn'd and observ'd to slide into the inmost Recesses of the Soul,
found the Capacity of his Customers, and discover'd their blind side unknown to them: By all
which he is instructed in fifty other Stratagems, to make her overvalue her own Judgment; as
well as the Commodity she would purchase. The greatest Advantage he has had over her, lies
in the most material part of the Commerce between them, the Debate about the Price, which he
knows to a Farthing, and she is wholly ignorant of: therefore he no where more egregiously
imposes on her Understanding: and tho' here he has the liberty of telling what Lyes he pleases,
as to the Prime-Cost, and the Money he has refused, yet he trusts not to them only; but attacking
her Vanity, makes her believe the most incredible things in the World, concerning his own Weakness,
and her superior Abilities. He had taken a Resolution, he says, never to part with that Piece
or Set under such a Price, but she has the power of talking him out of his Goods beyond any
body he ever sold to: He protests, that he loses by what she offers; but seeing that she has
a fancy for it, and is resolv'd to give no more, rather than disoblige a Lady he has such an
uncommon value for, he'll let her have it; and only begs, that another time she will not stand
so hard with him. In the mean time the Buyer, who has a voluble Tongue, and imagines herself
no Fool, is easily persuaded that she has a very winning way of Talking; and thinking it sufficient,
for the sake of Good Breeding, to disown her Merit, and in some witty Repartee retort the Compliment,
he makes her swallow very contentedly the substance of every thing he tells her. The upshot
is, that with the satisfaction of having bought, as she thinks, according to her expectation,
she has paid exactly the same Price as any body else would have done; and give much more than,
rather than not have sold his Goods, he would have taken.

Those who have never minded an Accident that once happened to a spruce Mercer on Ludgate-Hill,
have neglected a Scene of Life that is very entertaining. A genteel young Lady, very richly
apparelled, made a full stop, in a Hackney-Coach, at the Door of this sharp-sighted Citizen;
who, with his wonted Civility, conducted her into his Shop. After she had spent two or three
Hours in tumbling over his Goods, and exclaiming against his frightful Prices, and after divers
Doubts and Hesitations, she fix'd her Determination on Silks and Brocades to the value or amount
of 100l. and then, with a handsome Apology for Women's seldom gadding abroad with such a Sum
of Money in their Pockets, desires he would do her the honour to wait upon her, with the Goods,
to her Husband's House, naming a very eminent Surgeon at St. James's. In the interim Dinner
is gone up, and the Mercer invites his fair Customer to take a Family Morsel with him, before
they went to St. James's. At Dinner many Excuses pass'd on the side of the Mercer and his Wife,
for the indifferent Fare; and on the Lady's side as many Declarations, that all was mighty
good and well; and faithfully promis'd, that if his Goods answer'd her expectation, she would
never quit his Shop, but would also procure most of her Friends and Acquaintance to deal with
him. She was seiz'd with a fainting Fit or two, with other pretty affected Symptoms of a breeding
Lady, which led on a great deal of good humour upon the subject of Marriage. When Dinner was
over, a Coach was call'd, the Lady and her Purchase were handed in with the greatest alacrity,
and order'd to go to Mr. ---- a Surgeon's. All the way, a great deal of obliging Discourse
pass'd on both sides; and the Mercer, not a little proud of his pretty Customer, and the large
Roll of Silk that lay in sight, took care to bow to all his Acquaintance as he pass'd along.
When the Coach stopp'd, she very pertly ask'd the Servant that open'd the Door, if his Master
was in the Surgery; and being answer'd he was, she says, take care, put that Parcel by carefully,
and shew this Gentleman into the Parlour. In the mean time, herself went up to the Master,
and addresses herself to the following purpose; viz. "That about two years since, her too indulgent
Parents," naming a Family of good account in the Country, "had unfortunately married her to
Mr. ---- a Mercer on Ludgate-Hill; but that his Life, since their Marriage, had been so scandalous
and dissolute, that, in short, he had not only ruin'd her Fortune, but she fear'd her Constitution,
by his Conversation with Scrumpets; and that her Condition was such, she knew not what to do
with herself, nor how to make her Case known to any living Creature." He was going directly
to examine her, but that she desired he would desist, and talk first with Mr. ----, her Husband,
naming the Mercer, who, she said, was below stairs waiting for that purpose. She begg'd not
to be present, for she could scarce bear the sight of a Wretch who had used her so cruelly.
She being withdrawn, the Surgeon went down stairs, and invited the Mercer into the Surgery;
and began with asking, How he found himself? The Mercer answer'd, truly he could not boast
of a large share of Health, but that he made a shift to rub on; but adds he, Sir, your Lady
had a sudden Disorder this Day, as she was at Dinner at my House; then, with a Smile, we once
thought we must have made her your Patient, by sending for you to her assistance. Zounds, says
the Surgeon in a surprize, what, my Wife dine at your House! I knew she went into the City.
Replies the Mercer, We had but a sorry Entertainment for her; however, she hath made herself
amends in her Bargain; and then presents him with a Bill of Parcels for 100l. for Silks sold
and delivered. The Surgeon, in a violent agony, rang the Bell for his Servants, bidding them
run all over the City, and find their Mistress. Sir, says the Mercer, you need not give your
self that trouble, to be sure she's in the House, for the Lady came with me in a Coach from
the City. This put him into a greater fury; D--mn ye, Sir, your own pocky Slut, you mean; I'd
have ye know, my Wife keeps no such Rascals company. To blows they went, and the Bones of the
Skeletons rattled as fast in the Glasses, as those of the Combatants. A Constable was call'd,
and charged with the Mercer, for endeavouring to defraud the Surgeon of 100l. by false Tokens
and Pretences. And both the Men continued so hot and outrageous, and such Scurrilities pass'd
between them, that the Mistake was vastly far from being clear'd up, and the Cheat set to rights.
The Mercer was carried in Custody to a Tavern, in order to go before a Magistrate, cursing
and reviling all the Surgeons as he went along; saying, if those were their Tricks, it was
time to give over Trade; and what still vex'd him more, to have his poor innocent Wife call'd
pocky B--ch, and himself all the debauch'd Villains into the Bargain. The Surgeon, on the other
hand, cries out, A new piece of Villany, a Fellow brings a Whore, and a Bill of Parcels, to
rob my House, and has withal the Impudence to boast of a Conversation he has truly had with
my Wife in a Hackney-Coach. The Surgeon's Wife had been found over a Dish of Tea at a Relation's
House in Crutched-Fryars, where she had dined, and had hurried home in such a manner, that
the Horses stood in a dropping Sweat at the Door. Soon after comes the Mercer's Wife, almost
frighted to death, accompanied with half her Relations, and finds a Mob of a thousand People
about the House where her Husband was kept Prisoner. An Hour more past before the Fraud was
discover'd by either Party, and the Affair set in a true light; when, upon enquiring, the Fair
Cheat it seems had, so soon as the Mercer was invited out of the Room he was placed in, given
the Servant half a Crown, and went off with the Silks, and it has not been known who she was
to this day.

While the State-Lottery was Drawing at the Guild-hall in London, an Irishman stood amongst
the Croud, meditating upon Ways and Means to procure a Meal's Meat; his Belly, it seems, having
been a Bankrupt for many Days before. At length, hearing a Prize of 1000l. proclaimed, he fell
into an Exstacy, crying out, the Ticket was his, which drew the Eyes of all the People present
upon him: he ran up to the Hustings among the Managers, and for better Satisfaction, desired
to be inform'd of the principal Clerks whether the Number he had heard in the Hall was entitled
to the 1000l. Prize. They assured him it was, and gave him Joy on his Success. He told the
Clerks and Proclaimers, that when the Wheels were clos'd, and the Day's Drawing concluded,
he should be glad of their Company to eat a bit of something or other with him at a neighbouring
Tavern. When the Lottery-Men had done their Business, they accordingly came, like so many Millers,
powdering every one that brush'd against them to the Tavern, where the Spits, Boilers and Stew-pans
were all a going Tantivy; the Master of the House sent privately to the Ringers, to tell them
he had a Gentleman, his Guest, whom Fortune had favour'd in the Lottery, that if his Vanity
was touch'd up with a Peal or two, he would warrant them a Pair of Pieces for the Complement.
St. Lawrence's Bells were at it in an instant, and when the Ringers came to pay their Respects
to his Honour, he order'd them three Guineas at the Bar. The Landlord, when he was paying the
Money, was not a little proud of his own Foresight, saying, Gentlemen, did not I tell you how
it would be?

Dinner was served up, when the Vintner and all his Servants were at their Stations, in close
and diligent Attendance upon the Company. The Discourse turn'd chiefly upon the niggardly Dispositions
of some, whom Fortune had favour'd in the same Manner, and the various Humours and Tempers
of Mankind: what unaccountable Successes attended on some People, and the Misfortunes that
others were visibly destin'd to. In the Evening, the Reckoning was call'd for, together with
three or four peremptory Bottles: the Bill came to five Pounds; the Master of the Feast, perusing
it, excepted to one of the Articles, as being an exorbitant Charge; and as he said, making
a Property of Good-Nature. All the Company join'd with much Warmth in the Complaint; upon which,
he said he would go down and give it the Landlord in his Bar. When he was got below Stairs,
in a careless Manner, with a Pipe in his Mouth, and without his Hat; he saunter'd about for
a Minute or two, and then found an Opportunity to slip away, leaving the Reck'ning to be paid
by his Companions above stairs. The Master of the House had the more reason to be shock'd when
he heard of the Imposture, because he had not only paid the three Guineas for the Steeple-Musick,
but had lent him ten Guineas more out of his Pocket for pretended Exigencies. The Gentlemen
could not afterwards pass through the Hall without being insulted; one unlucky Rogue bawling
out, What was the Reck'ning at the Tavern? and another answering, FIVE POUNDS principal Money.

We have had instances of Jurymen, who have had their Pockets pick'd when they have been sitting
upon Trials of Life and Death; and whilst a Prosecutor has been giving Evidence against one
Rogue, another has at that very instant robb'd him of his Snuff-Box and Handkerchief.

There are eight Sessions of Oyer and Terminer and Jail-Delivery usually holden in London in
a Year, many of which, through the great Number of Prisoners try'd, continue four or five Days
successively; during which time, the Old-Bailey-Yard is crouded with an idle disorderly Crew
of Persons of both Sexes, who have no other Business but to obstruct those who have any unwish'd
for Avocation to the Place----In one Corner stands a Circle, compos'd of, perhaps, a Baker's-Boy,
a Journeyman-Shoemaker, a Butcher's-'Prentice, and a Bailiff's-Follower, telling how it was;
By what means such a Robber was taken; Who his Relations are; One boasting of being his near
Neighbour; and another of an intimate Acquaintance with him, &c.----In another, a heap of Earthen-ware
Women, with Straw Hats, and their black and blue Eyes and swoln Faces, lamenting the Fate of
poor Bob, or Jemmy, hoping the L--d will deliver him out of the Hands of his Adversaries; meaning
the Laws of his Country----In a third, is a row of Spittle-field Weavers, with the Lice passing
in Review over their Shoulders, before two or three lazy Silver-button'd Alehouse Fellows at
their Elbows; near whom, are four or five old Women, shaking their Heads at the Wickedness
of the Times, and what a likely young Fellow pass'd just now to his Trial, wondering that Youth
won't take warning, &c.----A Yard farther, two or three Grenadiers together, with a red-faced
Serjeant or Corporal of the Foot Guards, ready to rap a Reputation for some offending Brother.
These, together with two or three Dozen of Whores and Thieves from Rosemary-lane and St. Giles's,
and a Company of idle Sailors from Wapping, resolve themselves into Committees of threes, fours,
and fives, all over the Sessions-house-yard, and there debate on the Fates and Circumstances
of the Criminals, till the latest Hour of the Court's sitting, be the Season ever so rigorous,
or their Affairs at home ever so pressing. But sometimes, by the sudden and hasty turning in
of a Coach, these Committees are all suspended, and squeez'd up against the Walls, or else
oftentimes, through their being a little too verbose and vociferous; the Court, by their Officer
upon the Leads, calls them to Peace and Order.

Nor are the Taverns, Ale-houses, and Brandy-shops in the Neighbourhood less fill'd with idle
Spectators: for, besides the Prosecutors and their Witnesses, (which must necessarily attend)
there are infinite Numbers of Watch-makers, Barbers, Poulterers, Engravers, and other Artizans
and Handicraft Tradesmen, who have no other Business there, but to hearken to the Stories of
the Newgate Solicitors and their Companions, and so neglecting their Callings and Families
at home, sit tippling one half Pint after another, till they become as fuddled as a Beef-Eater
at a Tavern on a Sunday Morning, and go home mightily edified with the particulars of a Trial
for a Rape, or a Highway Robbery.

That Figure which the Sextons of Parishes has made in the World of late Years, is an evident
Token of the flourishing State of the Worshipful Corporation of Corps-stealers. There seldom
passes a Night, but we hear of some Defunct Plebeian eloping out of one Church-yard or other:
nor are those of better Blood more secure, for all their Bolts and Barricadoes. This felonious
Commodity, I am told, is sold by Weight, and that the Purchasers generally consider and weigh
well what they are about, before they strike a Bargain. The Corpse of a plain Milk-Maid is
said to fetch at least 7d. in the Pound more than that of a Countess; and, notwithstanding
the highest feeding and fattening, a common Joiner's has had vastly the preference of a Major
General's in the Market. But, however, this Calling is liable to many Hazards and Losses as
well as others, for oftentimes the Dealers meet with Crosses, which they are oblig'd, though
very unwillingly, to bear on their Backs.

I must say something to those People who have introduced a kind of Fraud of late Years, which
now and then runs through the Town like a Contagion: It is call'd Auctioneering, or vending
various kinds of Goods by way of Cant or Auction. Soon after a Man of any Note has obtained
a Mors Janua Vitæ against his Wife, and publish'd it over his Door, or a Woman has done the
same thing by her Husband; a Gang of People, call'd Bughunters, take possession of the House,
by displaying their Standard, a huge rotten Carpet, and wage War against all the good Housewives
in the Town. Moor-fields and Knaves-acre are drain'd of their Lumber, and scarce a thirtieth
Part of the deceased Person's real Furniture is on the Premisses. Next, a News-paper proclaims
the Goods of Lady Good-for-nothing lately deceased, to be sold, or rather given away to such
as shall take the trouble to fetch them. All the thrifty Ladies take the Hint, and away to
the place of Auction; the Orator, or Mouth of the Sale, surrounded by his Puffs and Setters,
shows away. One Fellow is professing his Astonishment at the low Prices the things go at, while
a Hussey dress'd out for the Day, is bidding against a Woman of Quality, with no intention
to buy, but to bring up those that are come thither for no other Purpose to a Price far beyond
the real Value. A third Person in the same Circumstance pretends to raise a Dispute, and rails
at the Rostrum in behalf of the Company, as a Disguise that he may either decoy or postpone,
as occasion shall require. The Ladies return home mightily pleased and satisfied with their
fine Pennyworths, and their Judgments are sure to be admired by their Women, and every poor
dependant Cousin. The Auctioneers and their Setters retire to the next Tavern, where they drink
their Healths, and join in a Chorus for getting rid of their crazy Furniture, &c. such that,
perhaps, nothing but a Fire or an Execution besides could have moved out of their Shops.

A Set of gay young Fellows, who have been reduced by Play, and other common Accidents of the
Town, have discover'd a Means of obtaining a Livelyhood within a Year past, that cannot but
fail of meeting with the Approbation of the ingenious Mr. Roger Johnson: They dress exceeding
well, and have a Chair attending them every Evening to such Taverns and Coffee-Houses as they
have pitch'd upon in the Day, as most proper for the execution of their Designs. They enquire
for one another, and People that they are sure not to meet with; and after taking out a fine
Snuff-Box, and displaying a pretty Ring, with several other Airs, call for a Pint of Wine,
if it be in a Tavern; and for a Glass of Arrack, be it in a Coffee-House, the Chairmen waiting
the mean time in the Passage. After the Beau has turned himself about in the Glass, and asked
a number of insignificant Questions, he desires Change for a Guinea, or perhaps some other
large Piece of Gold, which he carelessly throws upon the Bar, and then leaps again towards
the Glass or the Fire. Presently the Bar-keeper cries Laud, Sir, this is not a good one! The
Man or Woman is answer'd by a Volley of Oaths, and the Words run vastly high, till the Chairmen,
by peeping through the Windows, perceive their Master has the worst of the Dispute; and then
come in bowing with their Heads as crooked as Dolphins, to know if his Honour has any Commands?
The Place is all silent upon the appearance of the Fellows with their Straps; and a Customer,
in kindness to the House, interferes in the Dispute, and bids the Bar-keeper not be too rash;
for, to be sure, the Mistake must be in her: for, that a Gentleman of such an Appearance, and
so attended, must certainly be in the right on't. The Fellow receives a good Piece for his
bad one, and not content with that alone, insists upon their publick acknowledging their Error,
and begging his Pardon for the Affront; to which the People readily comply, and away he is
gone in his Chair, to serve as many more Houses as he can in the same manner.

There are at least thirty People that I have my Eye upon every Day who dress in Pig-tail Perriwigs
and Velvet Breeches, and appear at Plays and Operas, that have not a Shilling in the World
but what they get by these Practices.

A sober Citizen, who had been yoked about fourteen Years, and had several Children by his Wife,
happen'd to have a Call to the Town of Northampton to transact some Business of Importance
to his Family. In the course of his Life he had not exceeded the Bounds of Highgate or Greenwich,
though some say he once ventured to make the Tour of Epsom; however, be that as it will, the
dreadful Day for his Departure is come, his Will has been made in due Form, and his Affairs
entirely settled before he undertook so tedious and hazardous a Journey. Had the poor Creature
been going to Babylon or Damascus, the Wife could not have shed more Tears, and shewn more
Grief than she did on the Occasion; she fainted several times, and the People, that were about
her, had much ado to keep Life in her; all Endeavours to comfort her not availing, she remain'd
inconsolable, telling them, It was fine Talking for those that had never felt the Pain of parting
with a Husband. The last tender parting Kiss is given an hundred times over, and her Tears
bring his Handkerchief out of his Pocket, in deep Sorrow to leave his dear Betty and his poor
Babes. In a Flood of briny Tears he is beseeched not to fail writing by every Post, and every
other Opportunity which shall offer: she promising faithfully not to omit doing the like on
her part. At last he is mounted, and the Eyes of the whole Family continue upon him till his
Horse and he are quite out of sight.

By that time he had reach'd the Town of Barnet, his Horse chanced to fall lame, and himself
was so disorder'd, having not rid for many Years before, that he found himself altogether unable
to proceed any further, and therefore waited till the Evening, when he got Passage in a Coach
that was coming from the North to London. When he came into his Shop at about Twelve at Night,
the first thing he met with was his 'Prentice with his Pockets largely stuffed out with Goods
to the Value of Twenty Pounds, which he was going to sell for his own Benefit; the House-Maid
and Nursery-Maid, with a jovial Company, had got an elegant Supper before them with some of
his best Wines on the Table; the Journeyman and his Cook he found upon a Pack in the Warehouse
in the most tender Embraces. Next, to his Wife's Chamber, that he found fast lock'd on the
Inside, and for all his kicking and swearing for half an Hour together, he could not find Admittance.
Presently the Street was in an Uproar with the Cry of Thieves! Thieves! a good-sized Animal
being seen sliding by a white Sheet down from the Chamber-Window by a Watchman who had laid
hands on him; and when he was brought into the House by a number of People with only his Breeches
and Shoes on, he appeared to be an Attorney of Furnival's-Inn, who had been constantly employed
in doing this Citizen's Business, and was now doing Business for his Wife.

