'Listen, child. There are weighty reasons. The Duke of Anjou is a candidate for the throne
of Poland, and my son is to accompany him thither. He must go as Marquis de Nid de Merle, in
full possession of your estates.'

'Let him take them,' began Eustacie, 'who first commits a cowardly murder, and then forces
himself on the widow he has made?'

'Folly, child, folly,' said the Chevalier, who supposed her ignorant of the circumstances of
her husband's assassination; and the Abbess, who was really ignorant, exclaimed--'Fid donc
niece; you know not what you say.'

'I know, Madame--I know from an eye-witness,' said Eustacie, firmly. 'I know the brutal words
that embittered my husband's death; and were there no other cause, they would render wedlock
with him who spoke them sacrilege.' Resolutely and steadily did the young wife speak, looking
at them with the dry fixed eye to which tears had been denied ever since that eventful night.'

'Poor child,' said the Chevalier to his sister. 'She is under the delusion still. Husband!
There is none in the case.' Then waving his hand as Eustacie's face grew crimson, and her eyes
flashed indignation, while her lips parted, 'It was her own folly that rendered it needful
to put an end to the boy's presumption. Had she been less willful and more obedient, instead
of turning the poor lad's head by playing at madame, we could have let him return to his island
fogs; but when SHE encouraged him in contemplating the carrying her away, and alienating her
and her lands from the true faith, there was but one remedy--to let him perish with the rest.
My son is willing to forgive her childish pleasure in a boy's passing homage, and has obtained
the King's sanction to an immediate marriage.'

'Which, to spare you, my dear,' added the aunt, 'shall take place in our chapel.'

'It shall never take place anywhere,' said Eustacie, quietly, though with a quiver in her voice;
'no priest will wed me when he has heard me.'

'The dispensation will overcome all scruples,' said the Abbess. 'Hear me, niece. I am sorry
for you, but it is best that you should know at once that there is nothing in heaven or earth
to aid you in resisting your duty.'

Eustacie made no answer, but there was a strange half-smile on her lip, and a light in her
eye which gave her an air not so much of entreaty as of defiance. She glanced from one to the
other, as if considering, but then slightly shook her head. 'What does she mean?' asked the
Chevalier and the Abbess one of another, as, with a dignified gesture, she moved to leave the room.

'Follow her. Convince her that she has no hope,' said the uncle; and the Abbess, moving faster
than her wont, came up with her at the archway whence one corridor led to the chapel, another
to her own apartments. Her veil was down again, but her aunt roughly withdrew it, saying, 'Look
at me, Eustacie. I come to warn you that you need not look to tamper with the sisters. Not
one will aid you in your headstrong folly. If you cast not off ere supper-time this mockery
of mourning, you shall taste of that discipline you used to sigh for. We have borne with your
fancy long enough--you, who are no more a widow than I--nor wife.'

'Wife and widow am I in the sight of Him who will protect me,' said Eustacie, standing her ground.

'Insolent! Why, did I not excuse this as a childish delusion, should I not spurn one who durst
love--what say I--not a heretic merely, but the foe of her father's house?'

'He!' cried Eustacie; 'what had he ever done?'

'He inherited the blood of the traitor Baron,' returned her aunt. 'Ever have that recreant
line injured us! My nephew's sword avenged the wrongs of many generations.'

'Then,' said Eustacie, looking at her with a steady, fixed look of inquire, 'you, Madame l'Abbesse,
would have neither mercy nor pity for the most innocent offspring of the elder line?'

'Girl, what folly is this to talk to me of innocence. That is not the question. The question
is--obey willingly as my dear daughter, or compulsion must be used.'

'My question is answered,' said Eustacie, on her side. 'I see that there is neither pity nor
hope from you.'

And with another obeisance, she turned to ascend the stairs. Madame paced back to her brother.

'What,' he said; 'you have not yet dealt with her?'

'No, brother, I never saw a like mood. She seems neither to fear nor to struggle. I knew she
was too true a Ribaumont for weak tears and entreaties; but, fiery little being as once she
was, I looked to see her force spend itself in passion, and that then the victory would have
been easy; but no, she ever looks as if she had some inward resource--some security--and therefore
could be calm. I should deem it some Huguenot fanaticism, but she is a very saint as to the
prayers of the Church, the very torment of our lives.'

'Could she escape?' exclaimed the Chevalier, who had been considering while his sister was
speaking.

'Impossible! Besides, where could she go? But the gates shall be closed. I will warn the portress
to let none pass out without my permission.'

'The Chevalier took a turn up and down the room; then exclaimed, 'It was very ill-advised to
let her women have access to her! Let us have Veronique summoned instantly.'

At that moment, however, the ponderous carriage of Monseigneur, with out-riders, both lay and
clerical, came trampling up to the archway, and the Abbess hurried off to her own apartment
to divest herself of her hunting-gear ere she received her guest; and the orders to one of
the nuns to keep a watch on her niece were oddly mixed with those to the cook, confectioner,
and butterer.

La Mere Marie Saraphine was not a cruel or an unkind woman. She had been very fond of her pretty
little niece in her childhood, but had deeply resented the arrangement which had removed her
from her own superintendence to that of the Englishwoman, besides the uniting to the young
Baron one whom she deemed the absolute right of Narcisse. She had received Eustacie on her
first return with great joy, and had always treated her with much indulgence, and when the
drooping, broken-hearted girl came back once more to the shelter of her convent, the good-humoured
Abbess only wished to make her happy again.

But Eustacie's misery was far beyond the ken of her aunt, and the jovial turn of these consolations
did but deepen her agony. To be congratulated on her release from the heretic, assured of future
happiness with her cousin, and, above all, to hear Berenger abused with all the bitterness
of rival family and rival religion, tore up the lacerated spirit. Ill, dejected, and broken
down, too subdued to fire up in defence, and only longing for the power of indulging in silent
grief, Eustacie had shrunk from her, and wrapped herself up in the ceaseless round of masses
and prayers, in which she was allowed to perceive a glimmering of hope for her husband's soul.
The Abbess, ever busy with affairs of her convent or matters of pleasure, soon relinquished
the vain attempt to console where she could not sympathize, trusted that the fever of devotion
would wear itself out, and left her niece to herself. Of the seven nuns, two were decorously
gay, like their Mother Abbess; one was a prodigious worker of tapestry, two were unrivalled
save by one another as confectioners. Eustacie had been their pet in her younger days; now
she was out of their reach, they tried in turn to comfort her; and when she would not be comforted,
they, too, felt aggrieved by the presence of one whose austerity reproached their own laxity;
they resented her disappointment at Soeur Monique's having been transferred to Lucon, and they,
too, left her to the only persons whose presence she had ever seemed to relish,--namely, her
maid Veronique, and Veronique's mother, her old nurse Perrine, wife of a farmer about two miles
off. The woman had been Eustacie's foster-mother, and continued to exert over her much of the
caressing care of a nurse.

After parting with her aunt, Eustacie for a moment looked towards the chapel, then, clasping
her hands, murmured to herself, 'No! no! speed is my best hope;' and at once mounted the stairs,
and entered a room, where the large stone crucifix, a waxen Madonna, and the holy water font
gave a cell-like aspect to the room; and a straw pallet covered with sackcloth was on the floor,
a richly curtained couch driven into the rear, as unused.

She knelt for a moment before the Madonna; 'Ave Maria, be with me and mine. Oh! blessed Lady,
thou hadst to fly with thy Holy One from cruel men. Have thou pity on the fatherless!'

Then going to the door, she clapped her hands; and, as Veronique entered, she bade her shut
and bolt the door, and at the same moment began in nervous haste to throw off her veil and
unfasten her dress.

'Make haste, Veronique. A dress of thine---'

'All is known, then!' cried Veronique, throwing up her arms.

'No, but he is coming--Narcisse--to marry me at once--Marde-Gras---'

'Et quoi? Madame has but to speak the word, and it is impossible.'

'And after what my aunt has said, I would die a thousand deaths ere speaking that word. I asked
her, Veronique! She would have vengeance on the most guiltless--the most guiltless--do you
hear?--of the Norman house. Never, never shall she have the chance! Come, thy striped petticoat!'

'But, oh! what will Madame do? Where would she go? Oh! it is impossible.'

'First to thy father's. Yes, I know. He has once called it a madness to think of rallying my
vassals to protect their lady. That was when he heard of it from thee--thou faint of heart--and
thy mother. I shall speak to him in person now. Make haste, I tell thee, girl. I must be out
of this place before I am watched or guarded,' she added breathlessly. 'I feel as if each moment
I lost might have death upon it;' and she looked about her like a startled deer.

'To my father's. Ah! there it is not so ill! But the twilights, the length of way,' sobbed
Veronique, in grievous distress and perplexity. 'Oh! Madame, I cannot see you go. The Mother
Abbess is good. She must have pity. Oh, trust to her!'

'Trust! Did I not trust to my cousin Diane? Never! Nothing will kill me but remaining in their
hands.'

Veronique argued and implored in vain. Ever since, in the height of those vehement austerities
by which the bereaved and shattered sufferer strove to appease her wretchedness by the utmost
endeavour to save her husband's soul, the old foster-mother had made known to her that she
might thus sacrifice another than herself. Eustacie's elastic heart had begun to revive, with
all its dauntless strength of will. What to her women seemed only a fear, was to her only a hope.

Frank and confiding as was her nature, however, the cruel deceptions already practiced on her
by her own kindred, together with the harsh words with which the Abbess spoke of Berenger,
had made her aware that no comfort must be looked for in that quarter. It was, after all, perhaps
her won instinct, and the aunt's want of sympathy, that withheld her from seeking counsel of
any save Perrine and her daughter, at any rate till she could communicate with the kind young
Queen. To her, then, Eustacie had written, entreating that a royal mandate would recall her
in time to bestow herself in some trustworthy hands, or even in her husband's won Norman castle,
where his heir would be both safe and welcome. But time has passed--the whole space that she
had reckoned as needful for the going and coming of her messenger--allowing for all the obstructions
of winter roads--nay, he had come back; she knew letter was delivered, but answer there was
none. It might yet come--perhaps a royal carriage and escort--and day after day had she waited
and hoped, only tardily admitting the conviction that Elisabeth of Austria was as powerless
as Eustacie de Ribaumont, and meantime revolving and proposing many a scheme that could only
have entered the brain of a brave-spirited child as she was. To appeal to her vassals, garrison
with them a ruinous old tower in the woods, and thence send for aid to the Montmorencys; to
ride to Saumur, and claim the protection of the governor of the province; to make her way to
the coast and sail for England; to start for Paris, and throw herself in person on the Queen's
protection,--all had occurred to her, and been discussed with her two confidantes; but the
hope of the Queen's interference, together with the exceeding difficulty of acting, had hitherto
prevented her from taking any steps, since no suspicion had arisen in the minds of those about
her. Veronique, caring infinitely more for her mistress's health and well-being than for the
object of Eustacie's anxieties, had always secretly trusted that delay would last till action
was impossible, and that the discovery would be made, only without her being accused of treason.
In the present stress of danger, she could but lament and entreat, for Eustacie's resolution
bore her down; and besides, as she said to herself, her Lady was after all going to her foster-father
and mother, who would make her hear reason, and bring her back at once, and then there would
be no anger nor disgrace incurred. The dark muddy length of walk would be the worst of it--and,
bah! most likely Madame would be convinced by it, and return of her own accord.

So Veronique, though not intermitting her protests, adjusted her own dress upon her mistress,--short
striped petticoat, black bodice, winged turban-like white cap, and a great muffling gray cloth
cloak and hook over the head and shoulders--the costume in which Veronique was wont to run
to her home in the twilight on various errands, chiefly to carry her mistress's linen; for
starching Eustacie's plain bands and cuffs was Mere Perrine's special pride. The wonted bundle,
therefore, now contained a few garments, and the money and jewels, especially the chaplet of
pearls, which Eustacie regarded as a trust.

Sobbing, and still protesting, Veronique, however, engaged that if her Lady succeeded in safely
crossing the kitchen in the twilight, and in leaving the convent, she would keep the secret
of her escape as long as possible, reporting her refusal to appear at supper, and making such
excuses as might very probably prevent the discovery of her flight till next day.

'And then,' said Eustacie, 'I will send for thee, either to Saumur or to the old tower! Adieu,
dear Veronique, do not be frightened. Thou dost not know how glad I am that the time for doing
something is come! To-morrow!'

'To-morrow!' thought Veronique, as she shut the door; 'before that you will be back here again,
my poor little Lady, trembling, weeping, in dire need of being comforted. But I will make up
a good fire, and shake out the bed. I'll let her have no more of that villainous palliasse.
No, no, let her try her own way, and repent of it; then, when this matter is over, she will
turn her mind to Chevalier Narcisse, and there will be no more languishing in this miserable hole.'

CHAPTER XVI. THE HEARTHS AND THICKETS OF THE BOCAGE.

I winna spare for his tender age,    Nor yet for his hie kin;
  But soon as ever he born is,
He shall mount the gallow's pin.--Fause Foodrage.

Dusk was closing in, but lamps had not yet been lighted, when with a trembling, yet almost
a bounding heart, Eustacie stole down the stone staircase, leading to a back-door--an utterly
uncanonical appendage to a nunnery, but one much used among the domestic establishment of Bellaise.

A gleam of red light spread across the passage from the half-open kitchen door, whence issued
the savoury steam of the supper preparing for Monseigneur. Eustacie had just cautiously traversed
it, when the voice of the presiding lay-sister called out, 'Veronique, is that you?'

'Sister!' returned Eustacie, with as much of the Angevin twang as she could assume.

'Where are you going?'

'To the Orchard Farm with this linen.'

'Ah! it must be. But there are strict orders come from Madame about nobody going out unreported,
and you may chance to find the door locked if you do not come back in good time. Oh! and I
had well-night forgot; tell your mother to be here early to-morrow, Madame would speak with her.'

Eustacie assented, half stifled by the great throb of her fluttering heart at the sense that
she had indeed seized the last moment. Forth then she stepped. How dark, waste, and lonely
the open field looked! But her heart did not fail her; she could only feel that a captivity
was over, and the most vague and terrible of her anxieties soothed, as she made her way into
one of the long shady lanes of the Bocage. It was nearly dark, and very muddy, but she had
all the familiarity of a native with the way, and the farm, where she had trotted about in
her infancy like a peasant's child, always seemed like home to her. It had been a prime treat
to visit it during her time of education at the convent, and there was an association of pleasure
in treading the path that seemed to bear her up, and give her enjoyment in the mere adventure
and feeling of escape and liberty. She had no fear of the dark, nor of the distant barking
of dogs, but the mire was deep, and it was plodding work in those heavy sabots, up the lane
that led from the convent; and the poor child was sorely weary long before she came to the
top of the low hill that she used scarcely to know to be rising round at all. The stars had
come out; and as she sat for a few moments to rest on a large stone, she saw the lights of
the cottage fires in the village below, and looking round could also see the many gleams in
the convent windows, the read fire-light in her own room among them. She shivered a little
as she thought of its glowing comfort, but turned her back resolutely, tightened her cloak
over her head, looked up to a glimmer in the watch-tower of her own castle far above her on
the hill and closed against her; and then smiled to herself with hope at the sparkle of a window
in a lonely farmhouse among the fields.

With fresh vigour she rose, and found her way through lane and field-path to the paddock where
she had so often played. Here a couple of huge dogs dashed forward with an explosion of barks,
dying away into low growls as she spoke to them by their names, and called aloud on 'Blaise!'
and 'Mere Perrine!' The cottage door was opened, the light streamed forth, and a man's head
in a broad had appeared. 'Veronique, girl, is this an hour to be gadding abroad?'

'Blaise, do you not know me?'

'It is our Lady. Ah!'

The next moment the wanderer was seated in the ample wooden chair of the head of the family,
the farmer and his two stout sons standing before her as their liege Lady, and Mere Perrine
hanging over her, in great anxiety, not wholly dispelled by her low girlish laugh, partly of
exultation at her successful evasion, partly of amusement at their wonder, and partly, too,
because it was so natural to her to enjoy herself at that hearth that she could not help it.
A savoury mess from the great caldron that was for ever stewing over the fire was at once fished
out for her, before she was allowed to explain herself; and as she ate with the carved spoon
and from the earthenware crock that had been called Mademoiselle's ever since her baby-days,
Perrine chafed and warmed her feet, fondled her, and assured her, as if she were still their
spoiled child, that they would do all she wished.

Pierre and Tiennot, the two sons, were sent out to fodder the cattle, and keep careful watch
for any sounds of pursuers from the convent; and Blaise, in the plenitude of his respects and
deference, would have followed them, but Eustacie desired him to remain to give her counsel.

Her first inquire was after the watch-tower. She did not care for any discomfort if her vassals
would be faithful, and hold it out for her, till she could send for help to the allies of her
husband's house, and her eyes glanced as she spoke.

But Blaise shook his head. He had looked at the tower as Madame bade, but it was all in ruins,
crumbling away, and, moreover, M. le Chevalier had put a forester there--a grim, bad subject,
who had been in the Italian wars, and cared neither for saint nor devil, except Chevalier Narcisse.
Indeed, even if he had not been there, the place was untenable, it would only be getting into
a trap.

'Count Hebert held it out for twelve days against the English!' said Eustacie, proudly.

'Ah! ah! but there were none of your falconets, or what call you those cannons then. No; if
Madame would present herself as a choice morsel for Monsieur le Chevalier to snap up, that
is the place.'

Then came the other plan of getting an escort of the peasants together, and riding with them
towards the Huguenot territories around La Rochelle, where, for her husband's sake, Eustacie
could hardly fail to obtain friends. It was the more practicable expedient, but Blaise groaned
over it, wondered how many of the farmers could be trusted, or brought together, and finally
expressed his intention of going to consult Martin, his staunch friend, at the next farm. Meantime,
Madame had better lie down and sleep. And Madame did sleep, in Perrine's huge box-bedstead,
with a sweet, calm, childlike slumber, whilst her nurse sat watching her with eyes full of
tears of pity and distress; the poor young thing's buoyant hopefulness and absence of all fear
seemed to the old woman especially sad, and like a sort of want of comprehension of the full
peril in which she stood.

Not till near dawn was Eustacie startled from her rest by approaching steps. 'Nurse, is all
ready?' she cried. 'Can we set off? Are the horses there?'

'No, my child; it is but my good man and Martin who would speak with you. Do not hasten. There
is nothing amiss as yet.'

'Oh, nurse,' cried Eustacie, as she quickly arranged the dress in which she had lain down,
'the dear old farm always makes me sleep well. This is the first time I have had no dream of
the whirling wheel and fiery gates! Oh, is it a token that HE is indeed at rest? I am so well,
so strong. I can ride anywhere now. Let them come in and tell me.'

Martin was a younger, brisker, cleverer man than Blaise, and besides being a vassal of the
young Lady, was a sort of agent to whom the Abbess instructed many of the matters of husbandry
regarding the convent lands. He stood, like Blaise, bareheaded as he talked to little Lady,
and heard her somewhat peremptorily demand why they had not brought the horses and men for
her escort.

It was impossible that night, explained Martin. Time was needed to bring in the farm-horses,
and summon the other peasants, without whom the roads were unsafe in these times of disorder.
He and Blaise must go round and warn them to be ready. A man could not be ready in a wink of
the eye, as Madame seemed to think, and the two peasants looked impenetrable in stolidity.

'Laggards that you are!' cried Eustacie, petulantly, clasping her hands; 'and meantime all
will be lost. They will be upon me!'

'Not so, Madame. It is therefore that I came here,' said Martin, deferentially, to the little
fuming impatient creature; 'Madame will be far safer close at hand while the pursuit and search
are going on. But she must not stay here. This farm is the first place they will come to, while
they will never suspect mine, and my good woman Lucette will be proud to keep watch for her.
Madame knows that the place is full of shrubs and thickets, where one half of an army might
spend a fine day in looking for the other.'

'And at night you will get together the men and convoy me?' asked Eustacie, eagerly.

'All in good time, Madame. Now she must be off, ere the holy mothers be astir. I have brought
an ass for her to ride.'

Eustacie had no choice but compliance. None of the Orchard family could go with her, as it
was needful that they should stay at home and appear as unconcerned as possible; but they promised
to meet her at the hour and place to be appointed, ad if possible to bring Veronique.

Eating a piece of rye-bread as she went, Eustacie, in her gray cloak, rode under Martin's guardianship
along the deep lanes, just budding with spring, in the chill dewiness before sunrise. She was
silent, and just a little sullen, for she had found stout shrewd Martin less easy to talk over
than the admiring Blaise, and her spirit was excessively chafed by the tardiness of her retainers.
But the sun rose and cleared away all clouds of temper, the cocks crew, the sheep bleated,
and fresh morning sounds met her ear, and seemed to cheer and fill her with hope; and in some
compunction for her want of graciousness, she thanked Martin, and praised his ass with a pretty
cordiality that would have fully compensated for her displeasure, even if the honest man had
been sensible of it.

He halted under the lee of a barn, and gave a low whistle. At the sound, Lucette, a brown,
sturdy young woman with a red handkerchief over her head, and another over her shoulders, came
running round the corner of the barn, and whispered eagerly under her breath, 'Ah! Madame,
Madame, what an honour!' kissing Eustacie's hand with all her might as she spoke; 'but, alas!
I fear Madame cannot come into the house. The questing Brother Francois--plague upon him!--has
taken it into his head to drop in to breakfast. I longed to give him the cold shoulder, but
it might have brought suspicion down.'

'Right, good woman,' said Martin; 'but what shall Madame do? It is broad way, and no longer
safe to run the lanes!'

'Give me a distaff,' said Eustacie, rising to the occasion; 'I will go to that bushy field,
and herd the cows.'

Madame was right, the husband and wife unwillingly agreed. There, in her peasant dress, in
the remote field, sloping up into a thick wood, she was unlikely to attract attention; and
though the field was bordered on one side by the lane leading to the road to Paris, it was
separated from it by a steep bank, crowned by one of the thick hedgerows characteristic of
the Bocage.

Here, then, they were forced to leave her, seated on a stone beneath a thorn-bush, distaff
in hand, with bread, cheese, and a pitcher of milk for her provisions, and three or four cows
grazing before her. From the higher ground below the wood of ash and hazel, she could see the
undulating fields and orchards, a few houses, and that inhospitable castle of her own.

