  In the north branch recently was found a turtle having upon its back
  the letters P.B.S.--the initials of the revered name of the immortal
  Percy Bysshe Shelley.

And he did not fail to keep Chicago informed of the latest Buena Park news in such rural journal
notes as these:

  Among the many improvements to be noticed in the Park this spring is
  the handsome new collar with which the ever-enterprising William
  Clow, Esq., has provided his St. Bernard dog.

  A dessert of sliced bananas and oranges is all the rage in the Park
  this season. Tapioca pudding is a thing of the past. How true it is
  that humanity is ever variable and fickle!

But there was very much less of this sort of thing and of the daily badinage of the paragrapher
than in the days of Field's primacy in that line. He was reserving all that was freshest, and
sweetest, and most delicate in his fancy for the "Love Affairs."

I spent the summer of 1895 in Evanston, and one night in October, just as the family was thinking
of retiring, I was called to the telephone by Field, who asked if we had any pie in the house,
for he was coming up to get a slice from the pantry of my Vermont mother-in-law. He was gladly
bidden to come along. In a few minutes in he walked, and was made welcome to whatever the pantry
afforded--whether it was pie, pickles, or plain cheese and crackers, I do not now recall. It
appeared that he had been in Evanston that night, giving a reading for the benefit of a social
and literary club such as were always drawing drafts upon his good-nature and powers of entertaining.
I never knew Field in better spirits than he was that night. He told of several humorous incidents
that happened at the reading, and then recited one or two of the things he had read there.
He sat at the piano and crooned songs and caressed the ivory keys as he told stories and we
talked of the "Love Affairs" and of his prospects, which were never brighter. None who were
present that memorable night will forget his reading of "The Night Wind." We turned the lights
down low and listened, while with that wonderful voice he brought "the night that broods outside"
into the darkened room, with that weird and ghostly:

  Yoooooooo!
  Yoooooooo!
  Yoooooooo!

Not until there was barely time to catch the last electric-car for Buena Park did Field tear
himself away from that appreciative company; and then he insisted that I should go with him
to the cars. And so we "walked and talked," as of old, until the last south-bound car came.
And as he boarded it, it seemed as if ten years had been wiped off the record, and I should
see him at the office next morning. And that was the last time I ever saw Eugene Field alive.

For a few mornings after that I read his column in the Record. A few more chapters were added
to the "Love Affairs," and then:

On Saturday morning, November 2d, Field spoke to the readers of the Record, through his accustomed
column and in his accustomed spirit of human sympathy and genial humor. It led off with the
little shot at his native city:

  No matter what else it did, if the earthquake shock waked up St.
  Louis, there should be no complaint.

And it concluded with a loyal defence of his old friend and associate, "Bill" Nye, who, having
aroused the ire of an audience at Paterson, N.J., had been roughly set upon and egged by a
turbulent crowd of men while on his way to the railroad station. Field indignantly repelled
the suggestion that Nye's indiscretion was due to inebriety, but traced it to his bad health.
"Only the utmost caution," he wrote, "and the most scrupulous observance of the rules laid
down by his physician have enabled Nye to go ahead with his work. This work in itself has been
arduous. If there is anything more vexatious or more wearing than travelling about the country
in all kinds of weather and at the mercy of railroads, and lecture-bureaus, and hotel-keepers,
we do not know it."

And yet, at the very moment Field wrote this he, a more delicately organized invalid than "Bill"
Nye, had his ticket bought, his state-room engaged, and his trunk packed to leave for Kansas
City, where he was to give a reading on the evening of Monday, November 4th. He felt so indisposed
on Saturday that he did not leave his bed. That, however, did not prevent his finishing Chapter
XIX of the "Love Affairs." As it was no unusual thing for him to write, as well as read, in
bed, this occasioned no alarm in the family circle. But that evening he decided to give up
the Kansas City trip, and asked his brother Roswell to wire the management of the affair to
that effect. On Sunday he was still indisposed, but received numerous visitors. To one of them,
who remarked that it was a perfect November day, Field said: "Yes, it is a lovely day, but
this is the season of the year when things die, and this fine weather may mean death to a thousand
people. We may hear of many deaths to-morrow."

In the evening he complained of a pain in his head; and as he was feeling a little feverish,
Dr. Hedges, who lived near by, was called in. He came about half-past ten o'clock; and after
taking Field's temperature, which was only slightly above normal, said it was due to weakness,
and probably resulted from the excitement of seeing so many visitors. Field joked with the
doctor, told him several stories, and was assured that he was getting on all right. Before
leaving, the doctor said that if it was fine on Monday it would do Field good to get out and
take some exercise. Shortly before midnight a message came from Kansas City, asking when he
would be able to appear there. He dictated an answer, saying that he would come November 16th.
Then wishing everybody goodnight, he turned over and went to sleep as peacefully as any little
child in one of his stories.

An hour before daylight the sleeper turned in his bed and groaned. His second son, "Daisy,"
who always slept with his father, spoke to him, but got no answer. Then he reached over and
touched him; but there was not the usual response of a word or a caress. In terror-stricken
recognition of the awful presence, Daisy alarmed the whole household with his cry, "Come quick!
I believe papa is dead!"

And so it was. Death had stolen upon Eugene Field as he slept. And so they found him, lying
in a natural position, his hands clasped over his heart, his head turned to one side, and his
lips half parted, as if about to speak.

It was just such a death as he had often said would be his choice. Just a dropping to sleep
here and an awakening yonder. The doctor said it was heart-failure, resulting from a sudden
spasm of pain. But the face bore no trace of pain. The moan that wakened Daisy was probably
that sigh with which mortal parts with mortality--the parting breath between life and death,
which will scarcely stir a feather and yet will awaken the soundest sleeper.

And thus there passed from the midst of us as gentle and genial a spirit as ever walked the
earth. I know not why his death should recall that memorable scene of Mallory's, the death
of Launcelot, unless it be that Field considered it the most beautiful passage in English literature:

So when sir Bors and his fellowes came to his bed, they found him starke dead, and hee lay
as hee had smiled, and the sweetest savour about him that ever they smelled.

Then there was weeping and dolour out of measure.

If I have interpreted the story of "The Good Knight's" life aright, the reader will comprehend
the relation there is in my mind between the scene at the death of the knightliest knight of
romance and that of him who moved in our modern life, steeped and imbued with the thoughts,
fancies, and speech of the age of chivalry. For the age of shield, and spear, and tourney,
he would have been the unlikeliest man ever born of woman; but with his "sweet pen" he waged
unceasing battle for all things beautiful, and true, and pure in this modern world. That is
why his best songs sing of mother's love and childhood and of the eternal bond between them.
He hated sham, and humbug, and false pretence, and that is why his daily paragraphs gleam and
sparkle with the relentless satire and ridicule; he detested the solemn dulness of conventional
life, and that is why he scourged society with the "knotted lash of sarcasm" and dissipated
melancholy with the unchecked effrontery of his mirth. And so his songs were full of sweetness,
and his words were words of strength; and his last message to the children of his pen was:

  Go forth, little lyrics, and sing to the hearts of men. This
  beautiful world is full of song, and thy voices may not be heard of
  all--but sing on, children of ours; sing to the hearts of men, and
  thy song shall at least swell the universal harmony that bespeaketh
  God's love and the sweetness of humanity.

And so is it any wonder that when the tidings of his death was borne throughout the land "there
was weeping and dolour out of measure," and that a wave of sympathy swept over the country
for the bereft family of the silent singer?

I have often been asked what was Eugene Field's religious belief--a question I cannot answer
better than in the language of the Rev. Frank M. Bristol in his funeral address:

  I have said of my dear friend that he had a creed. His creed was
  love. He had a religion. His religion was kindness. He belonged to
  the church--the church of the common brotherhood of man. With all
  the changes that came to his definitions and formulas, he never lost
  from his heart of hearts the reverence for sacred things learned in
  childhood, and inherited from a sturdy Puritan ancestry. From that
  deep store of love and faith and reverence sprang the streams of his
  happy songs, and ever was he putting into his tender verses those
  ideas of the living God, the blessed Christ, the ministering angels
  of immortal love, the happiness of heaven, which were instilled into
  his-heart when but a boy.

Those who gathered at his house on the day of the funeral and looked upon the form of the "Good
Knight" in his last sleep saw a large white rose in one of his hands. There was a touching
story connected with that rose: On the preceding afternoon a lady, who was a friend of Field's,
went to a florist's to order some flowers for the grave. A poorly clad little girl was looking
wistfully in at the window and followed the lady into the store.

"Are those flowers for Mr. Field?" she asked. "Oh, I wish I could send him just one. Won't
you, please, give me one flower?"

The florist placed a beautiful white rose in her little hand. Then she turned and gave it to
the lady, with the request: "Please put it near Mr. Field with your flowers." And the little
girl's single rose--the gift of love without money and without price--was given the place of
honor that day beyond the wealth of flowers that filled house and church with the incense of
affection for the dead.

The funeral was a memorable demonstration of the common regard in which Field was held by all
classes of citizens. The services took place in the Fourth Presbyterian Church, from which
hundreds turned sorrowfully away, because they could not gain admission. The Rev. Thomas C.
Hall, who had recently succeeded Dr. Stryker, one of Field's intimate friends, who had been
called to the presidency of Hamilton College, conducted the formal ceremonies, in which he
was assisted by the Rev. Frank M. Bristol, who delivered the address, and the Rev. Frank W.
Gunsaulus, who embodied his tribute to his friend in a poem remarkable for the felicity with
which it passed in review many of the more noteworthy of Field's lyrics. Its opening stanzas read:

  'Midst rustling of leaves in the rich autumn air,
  At eve when man's life is an unuttered prayer,
    There came through the dusk, each with torch shining bright,
    From far and from near, in his sorrow bedight,
  The old earth's lone pilgrim o'er land and o'er wave.
  Who gathered around their dear poet's loved grave.

  With trumpet and drum, but in silence, they came--
  Their paths were illumed by their torches' mild flame,
    Whose soft lambent streams by love's glory were lit;
    And where fairy knights and bright elves used to flit
  Across the wan world when the lights quivered dim,
  These watched at the grave, and were mourning for him.

That the spirit of those funeral services was neither local nor ephemeral is proved by the
following poem, which, by a strange coincidence, came in a round-about way to my desk in the
Record-Herald office from their author in Texarkana, Texas, the very day I transcribed the
above lines from Dr. Gunsaulus's "Songs of Night and Morning" into the manuscript of this book:

  EUGENE FIELD

  1.

  Sleep well, dear poet of the heart!
    In dreamless rest by cares unbroken;
  Thy mission filled, in peace depart.
    Thy message to the world is spoken.

  2.

  Thy song the weary heart beguiles;
    Like generous wine it soothes and cheers,
  Yet oftentimes, amid our smiles,
    Thy pathos melts a soul to tears.

  3.

  In "Casey's Tabble-Dote" no more
    Thy kindly humor will be heard;
  In silence now we must deplore
    The horrors of that "small hot bird."

  4.

  The "Restauraw" is silent now,
    The "Conversazzhyony's" over;
  And "Red Hoss Mountain's" gloomy brow
    Looks down where lies "Three-fingered Hoover."

  5.

  Our friend "Perfesser Vere de Blaw"
    No longer on the "Steenway" prances
  With "Mizzer-Reery" "Opry-Boof,"
    And old familiar songs and dances.

  6.

  Old "Red floss Mountain's" wrapped in gloom,
    And "Silas Pettibone's shef-doover"
  Has long since vanished from the room
    With "Casey" and "Three-fingered Hoover."

  7.

  Yet will they live! Though Field depart;
    Thousands his memory will cherish;
  The gentle poet of the heart
    Shall live till life and language perish.

  C.S.T.

The initials are those of Mr. Charles S. Todd, of Texarkana, Texas; and the poem, besides testifying
to the wide-spread sorrow over Field's death, bears witness to the fact that his western dialect
verse had a hold on the popular heart only second to his lullabies and poems of childhood.

From the Fourth Presbyterian Church Field's body was borne to its last resting-place, in Graceland
cemetery. It is a quiet spot where the poet is interred, in a lovely little glade, away from
the sorrowful processions of the main driveways. Leafy branches wave above his grave, shielding
it from the glare of the sun in summer and the rude sweep of the winds in winter. The birds
flit across it from tree to tree, casting "strange, flutterin' shadders" over the grave of
him who loved them so well. And there, one day in the early summer, another bird-lover, Edward
B. Clark, heard a wood-thrush, the sweetest of American songsters, singing its vesper hymn,
and was moved out of his wont himself to sing:

  THE TRIBUTE OF THE THRUSH

  A bird voice comes from the maple
    Across the green of the sod,
  Breaking the silence of evening
    That rests on this "acre of God."
  'Tis the note of the bird of the woodland,
    Of thickets and sunless retreats;
  Yet the plashing of sunlit waters
    Is the sound of the song it repeats.

  Why sing you here in the open,
    O gold-tongued bird of the shade;
  What spirit moves you to echo
    This hymn from the angels strayed?
  And then as the shadows lengthened,
    The thrush made its answer clear:
  "There was void in the world of music,
    A singer lies voiceless here."

Thus endeth this inadequate study of my gentle and joyous friend, "the good knight, sans peur
et sans monnaie."

APPENDIX

The two articles by Eugene Field which follow here are not to be taken as particularly illuminating
examples of his literary art or style. For those the reader is referred to his collected works;
especially those tales and poems published during his lifetime and to "The Love Affairs of
a Bibliomaniac." These are given to illustrate the liberties Field took with his living friends
and with the verities of literary history. There was no such book as the "Ten Years of a Song
Bird: Memoirs of a Busy Life," by Emma Abbott; and "The Discoverer of Shakespeare," by Franklin
H. Head, was equally a creation of Field's lively fancy. I reproduce the latter review from
the copy which Field cut from the Record and sent in pamphlet form to Mr. Head with the following
note:

  DEAR MR. HEAD: The printers jumbled my review of your essay so
  fearfully to-day that I make bold to send you the review
  straightened out in seemly wise. Now, I shall expect you to send me
  a copy of the book when it is printed, and then I shall feel amply
  compensated for the worry which the hotch-potch in the Daily News of
  this morning has given me.

  Ever sincerely yours,

  EUGENE FIELD.
  May 21st, 1891.

  WHO DISCOVERED SHAKESPEARE?

  Mr. Franklin H. Head is about to publish his scholarly and ingenious
  essay upon "The Discoverer of Shakespeare." Mr. Head is as
  enthusiastic a Shakespeare student as we have in the West, and his
  enthusiasm is tempered by a certain reverence which has led him to
  view with dismay, if not with horror, the exploits of latter-day
  iconoclasts, who would fain convince the credulous that what has
  been was not and that he who once wrought never existed. It was Mr.
  Head who gave to the world several years ago the charming brochure
  wherein Shakespeare's relations and experience with insomnia were so
  pleasantly set forth, and now the public is to be favored with a
  second essay, one of greater value to the Shakespearian student, in
  that it deals directly and intimately and explicitly with the
  earlier years of the poet's life. This essay was read before the
  Chicago Literary Club several weeks ago, and would doubtless not
  have been published but for the earnest solicitations of General
  McClurg, the Rev. Dr. Herrick Johnson, Colonel J.S. Norton, and
  other local literary patrons, who recognized Mr. Head's work as a
  distinctly valuable contribution to Shakespeariana. Answering the
  importunities of these sagacious critics, the author will publish
  the essay, supplementing it with notes and appendices.

  Of the interesting narrative given by Mr. Head, it is our present
  purpose to make as complete a review as the limits afforded us this
  morning will allow, and we enter into the task with genuine
  timidity, for it is no easy thing to give in so small a compass a
  fair sketch of the tale and the argument which Mr. Head has
  presented so entertainingly, so elegantly, and so persuasively.

  Before his courtship of, and marriage with, Anne Hathaway,
  Shakespeare was comparatively unknown. By a few boon companions he
  was recognized as a gay and talented young fellow, not wholly averse
  to hazardous adventure, as his famous connection with a certain
  poaching affair demonstrated. Shakespeare's father was a pious man,
  who was properly revered by his neighbors. The son was not held in
  such high estimation by these simple folk. "Willie, thee beest a
  merry fellow," quoth the parson to the young player when he first
  came back from London, "but thee shall never be soche a man as thy
  father."

  Down in London his friends were of the rollicking, happy-go-lucky
  kind; they divided their time between the play-houses and the
  pot-houses; they lived by their wits, and they were not the first to
  demonstrate that he who would enjoy immortality must first have
  learned to live by his wits among mortals. It was while he led this
  irresponsible bachelor life in London that Shakespeare met one
  Elizabeth Frum, or Thrum, and with this young woman he appears to
  have fallen in love. The affair did not last very long, but it was
  fierce while it was on. Anne Hathaway was temporarily forgotten, and
  Mistress Frum (whose father kept the Bell and Canister)
  engaged--aye, absorbed--the attentions of the frisky young poet. At
  that time Shakespeare was spare of figure, melancholy of visage, but
  lively of demeanor; an inclination to baldness had already begun to
  exhibit itself, a predisposition hastened and encouraged doubtless
  by that disordered digestion to which the poet at an early age
  became a prey by reason of his excesses. Elizabeth Frum was deeply
  enamoured of Willie, but the young man soon wearied of the girl and
  returned to his first love. Curiously enough, Elizabeth subsequently
  was married to Andrew Wilwhite of Stratford-on-Avon, and lived up to
  the day of her death (1636) in the house next to the cottage
  occupied by Anne Hathaway Shakespeare and her children! Wilwhite was
  two years younger than Shakespeare; he was the son of a farmer, was
  fairly well-to-do, and had been properly educated. Perhaps more for
  the amusement than for the glory or for the financial remuneration
  there was in it, he printed a modest weekly paper which he named
  "The Tidings"--"an Instrument for the Spreading of Proper New Arts
  and Philosophies, and for the Indication and Diffusion of What Haps
  and Hearsays Soever Are Meet for Chronicling Withal." This journal
  was of unpretentious appearance, and its editorial tone was modest
  to a degree. The size of the paper was eight by twelve inches, four
  pages, with two columns to the page. The type used in the printing
  was large and coarse, but the paper and ink seem to have been of the
  best quality. A complete file of The Tidings does not survive. The
  British Museum has all but the third, eleventh, twelfth, and
  seventeenth volumes; the Newberry Library of Chicago has secured the
  first, seventh, sixteenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth volumes, and
  the Duke of Devonshire has half-a-dozen volumes. Aside from these
  copies none other is known to be in existence.

  Wilwhite was an ardent and life-long admirer of Shakespeare. It is
  not improbable that after her marriage Elizabeth Frum, proud of her
  former relations with the poet, encouraged her husband in those
  cordial offices which helped to promote Shakespeare's
  contemporaneous fame. At any rate, The Tidings was the first public
  print to recognize Shakespeare's genius, and Andrew Wilwhite was the
  first of Shakespeare's contemporaries to give public expression to
  his admiration and abiding faith in the talents of the poet.

  "We print in our supplement to-day a sonnet from the pen of Willie
  Shakespeare, son of our esteemed townsman, Squire John Shakespeare.
  Willie is now located in London, and is recognized as one of the
  brightest constellations in the literary galaxy of the
  metropolis."--The Tidings, May 18th, 1587.

  "Mistress Shakespeare laid an egg on our table yesterday measuring
  eleven inches in circumference. The amiable and accomplished wench
  informs us that her husband, whose poetic genius frequently
  illuminates these columns, will visit our midst next month. William,
  here is our [hand pointing to the right]."--The Tidings, June 13th,
  1587.

  "The gifted W. Shaxpur honored this office with a call last
  Thursday. He was smiling all over. It is a boy, and weighs ten
  pounds. Thanks, Willie, for the cigar; it was a daisy."--The
  Tidings, July 9th, 1587.

  "The fireworks on Squire Shakespere's lawn last Fourth of July night
  were the finest ever witnessed in the county. They were brought up
  from London by the Squire's son William, the famous poet."--Ibid.

  "If you want to make Bill Shaxpeare hopping mad, just ask him how
  much venison is a pound. All joking aside, Willie is the leading
  poet of the age."--The Tidings, July 16th, 1587.

  Two years later the following references were made by Wilwhite to
  the dramatic prodigy:

  "We would acknowledge the receipt (from Isaac Jaggard and Edward
  Blount, the well-known publishers) of a volume entitled, 'The First
  Part of King Henry the Sixt,' the same being a dramatic poem by
  Willie Shaxper, formerly of this town. Critique of the work is
  deferred."--April 23d, 1589.

  "Our London exchanges agree that Willie Shaksper's new play is the
  greatest thing of the season. We knew that Willie would get there
  sooner or later. There are no flies on him."--April 23d, 1589.

  "The Thespian Amateur association of the Congregational church will
  give a performance of 'King Henry Sixt' in the town hall next
  Thursday evening. Reuben Bobbin, our talented tinsmith, enacting the
  rôle of his majesty. This play, being written by one of our townsmen
  and the greatest poet of the age; should be patronized by all.
  Ice-cream will be served inter actes."--November 6th, 1589.

  "We print elsewhere to-day an excerpt from the Sadler's Wells Daily
  Blowpipe, critically examining into the literary work of W.
  Shakspeyr, late of this village. The conclusion reached by our
  discriminating and able exchange is that Mr. Shackspeere is without
  question a mighty genius. We have said so all along, and we have
  known him ten years. Now that the Metropolitan press indorses us, we
  wonder what will the doddering dotard of the Avon Palladium have to
  say for his festering and flyblown self."--December 14th, 1589.

  In 1592 the Palladium reprinted an opinion given by Robert Greene:
  "Here is an upstart crow," said Greene of Shakespeare, "beautified
  with our feathers, that supposes he is as well able to bombast out a
  blank verse as the rest of you, and, being an absolute Johannes
  factotum, is, in his own conceit, the only shake-scene in the
  country." Another contemporaneous critic said of the scene between
  Brutus and Cassius in "Julius Caesar": "They are put there to play
  the bully and the buffoon, to show their activity of face and
  muscles. They are to play a prize, a trial of skill and hugging and
  swaggering, like two drunken Hectors, for a two-penny reckoning."
  Shakespeare's contemporaries--or, at least, many of them--sought to
  belittle his work in this wise. Why, even in later years so acute a
  critic as John Dennis declared that "his lines are utterly void of
  celestial fire," and Shaftesbury spoke of his "rude, unpolished
  style and antiquated phrase and wit."

  In the year 1600, having written his chef d'oeuvre, the poet
  retired to Stratford for a brief period of rest.

  "Our distinguished poet-townsman, Shakespyr, accompanied us on an
  angling last Thursday, and ye editor returned well-laden with
  spoils. Two-score trouts and a multitude of dace and chubs were
  taken. Spending the night at the Rose and Crown, we were hospitably
  entertained by Jerry Sellars and his estimable lady, who have
  recently added a buttery to their hostelry, and otherwise adorned
  the premises. Over our brew in the evening the poet regaled us with
  reminiscences of life in London, and recited certain passages from
  his melancholy history of Hamlet, prince of Denmark, the same being
  a new and full mournful tragedic of mightie excellence."--The
  Tidings, May 13th, 1600.

