"My lord," said Morton, "if Sir John will ride apart with me but for one moment, I will show
him such reasons as shall make him content to depart, and to refer this unhappy day's work
to the judgment of the Commissioners nominated to try offences on the Border."

He then led Sir John Foster aside, and spoke to him in this manner:--"Sir John Foster, I much
marvel that a man who knows your Queen Elizabeth as you do, should not know that, if you hope
any thing from her, it must be for doing her useful service, not for involving her in quarrels
with her neighbours without any advantage. Sir Knight, I will speak frankly what I know to
be true. Had you seized the true Piercie Shafton by this ill-advised inroad; and had your deed
threatened, as most likely it might, a breach betwixt the countries, your politic princess
and her politic council would rather have disgraced Sir John Foster than entered into war in
his behalf. But now that you have stricken short of your aim, you may rely on it you will have
little thanks for carrying the matter farther. I will work thus far on the Earl of Murray,
that he will undertake to dismiss Sir Piercie Shafton from the realm of Scotland.--Be well
advised, and let the matter now pass off--you will gain nothing by farther violence, for if
we fight, you as the fewer and the weaker through your former action, will needs have the worse."

Sir John Foster listened with his head declining on his breast-plate.

"It is a cursed chance," he said, "and I shall have little thanks for my day's work."

He then rode up to Murray, and said, that, in deference to his Lordship's presence and that
of my Lord of Morton, he had come to the resolution of withdrawing himself, with his power,
without farther proceedings.

"Stop there, Sir John Foster," said Murray; "I cannot permit you to retire in safety, unless
you leave some one who may be surety to Scotland, that the injuries you have at present done
us may be fully accounted for--you will reflect, that by permitting your retreat, I become
accountable to my Sovereign, who will demand a reckoning of me for the blood of her subjects,
if I suffer those who shed it to depart so easily."

"It shall never be told in England," said the Warden, "that John Foster gave pledges like a
subdued man, and that on the very field on which he stands victorious.--But," he added, after
a moment's pause, "if Stawarth Bolton wills to abide with you on his own free choice, I will
say nothing against it; and, as I bethink me, it were better he should stay to see the dismissal
of this same Piercie Shafton."

"I receive him as your hostage, nevertheless, and shall treat him as such," said the Earl of
Murray. But Foster, turning away as if to give directions to Bolton and his men, affected not
to hear this observation.

"There rides a faithful servant of his most beautiful and Sovereign Lady," said Murray aside
to Morton. "Happy man! he knows not whether the execution of her commands may not cost him
his head; and yet he is most certain that to leave them unexecuted will bring disgrace and
death without reprieve. Happy are they who are not only subjected to the caprices of Dame Fortune,
but held bound to account and be responsible for them, and that to a sovereign as moody and
fickle as her humorous ladyship herself!"

"We also have a female Sovereign, my lord," said Morton.

"We have so, Douglas," said the Earl,--with a suppressed sigh; "but it remains to be seen how
long a female hand can hold the reins of power in a realm so wild as ours. We will now go on
to Saint Mary's, and see ourselves after the state of that House.--Glendinning, look to that
woman, and protect her.--What the fiend, man, hast thou got in thine arms?--an infant as I
live!--where couldst thou find such a charge, at such a place and moment?"

Halbert Glendinning briefly told the story. The Earl rode forward to the place where the body
of Julian Avenel lay, with his unhappy companion's arms wrapped around him like the trunk of
an uprooted oak borne down by the tempest with all its ivy garlands. Both were cold dead. Murray
was touched in an unwonted degree, remembering, perhaps, his own birth. "What have they to
answer for, Douglas," he said, "who thus abuse the sweetest gifts of affection?"

The Earl of Morton, unhappy in his marriage, was a libertine in his amours.

"You must ask that question of Henry Warden, my lord, or of John Knox--I am but a wild counsellor
in women's matters."

"Forward to Saint Mary's," said the Earl; "pass the word on--Glendinning, give the infant to
this same female cavalier, and let it be taken charge of. Let no dishonour be done to the dead
bodies, and call on the country to bury or remove them.--Forward, I say, my masters!"

Chapter the Thirty-Seventh.

  Gone to be married?--Gone to swear a peace!

KING JOHN

The news of the lost battle, so quickly carried by the fugitives to the village and convent,
had spread the greatest alarm among the inhabitants.  The Sacristan and other monks counselled
flight; the Treasurer recommended that the church plate should be offered as a tribute to bribe
the English officer; the Abbot alone was unmoved and undaunted.

"My brethren," he said, "since God has not given our people victory in the combat, it must
be because he requires of us, his spiritual soldiers, to fight the good fight of martyrdom,
a conflict in which nothing but our own faint-hearted cowardice can make us fail of victory.
Let us assume, then, the armour of faith, and prepare, if it be necessary, to die under the
ruin of these shrines, to the service of which we have devoted ourselves. Highly honoured are
we all in this distinguished summons, from our dear brother Nicholas, whose gray hairs have
been preserved until they should be surrounded by the crown of martyrdom, down to my beloved
son Edward, who, arriving at the vineyard at the latest hour of the day, is yet permitted to
share its toils with those who have laboured from the morning. Be of good courage, my children.
I dare not, like my sainted predecessors, promise to you that you shall be preserved by miracle--I
and you are alike unworthy of that especial interposition, which, in earlier times, turned
the sword of sacrilege against the bosom of tyrants by whom it was wielded, daunted the hardened
hearts of heretics with prodigies, and called down hosts of angels to defend the shrine of
God and of the Virgin. Yet, by heavenly aid, you shall this day see that your Father and Abbot
will not disgrace the mitre which sits upon his brow. Go to your cells, my children, and exercise
your private devotions. Array yourselves also in alb and cope, as for our most solemn festivals,
and be ready, when the tolling of the largest bell announces the approach of the enemy, to
march forth to meet them in solemn procession. Let the church be opened to afford such refuge
as may be to those of our vassals, who, from their exertion in this day's unhappy battle, or
the cause, are particularly apprehensive of the rage of the enemy.  Tell Sir Piercie Shafton,
if he has escaped the fight--"

"I am here, most venerable Abbot," replied Sir Piercie; "and if it so seemeth meet to you,
I will presently assemble such of the men as have escaped this escaramouche, and will renew
the resistance, even unto the death. Certes, you will learn from all, that I did my part in
this unhappy matter. Had it pleased Julian Avenel to have attended to my counsel, specially
in somewhat withdrawing of his main battle, even as you may have marked the heron eschew the
stoop of the falcon, receiving him rather upon his beak than upon his wing, affairs, as I do
conceive, might have had a different face, and we might then, in a more bellacose manner, have
maintained that affray. Nevertheless, I would not be understood to speak any thing in disregard
of Julian Avenel, whom I saw fall fighting manfully with his face to his enemy, which hath
banished from my memory the unseemly term of 'meddling coxcomb,' with which it pleased him
something rashly to qualify my advice, and for which, had it pleased Heaven and the saints
to have prolonged the life of that excellent person, I had it bound upon my soul to have put
him to death with my own hand."

"Sir Piercie," said the Abbot, at length interrupting him, "our time allows brief leisure to
speak what might have been."

"You are right, most venerable Lord and Father," replied the incorrigible Euphuist; "the preterite,
as grammarians have it, concerns frail mortality less than the future mood, and indeed our
cogitations respect chiefly the present. In a word, I am willing to head all who will follow
me, and offer such opposition as manhood and mortality may permit, to the advance of the English,
though they be my own countrymen; and be assured, Piercie Shafton will measure his length,
being five feet ten inches, on the ground as he stands, rather than give two yards in retreat,
according to the usual motion in which we retrograde."

"I thank you, Sir Knight," said the Abbot, "and I doubt not that you would make your words
good; but it is not the will of Heaven that carnal weapons should rescue us. We are called
to endure, not to resist, and may not waste the blood of our innocent commons in vain--Fruitless
opposition becomes not men of our profession; they have my commands to resign the sword and
the spear,--God and Our Lady have not blessed our banner."

"Bethink you, reverend lord," said Piercie Shafton, very eagerly, "ere you resign the defence
that is in your power--there are many posts near the entry of this village, where brave men
might live or die to the advantage; and I have this additional motive to make defence,--the
safety, namely, of a fair friend, who, I hope, hath escaped the hands of the heretics."

"I understand you, Sir Piercie," said the Abbot--"you mean the daughter of our Convent's miller?"

"Reverend my lord," said Sir Piercie, not without hesitation, "the fair Mysinda is, as may
be in some sort alleged, the daughter of one who mechanically prepareth corn to be manipulated
into bread, without which we could not exist, and which is therefore an employment in itself
honourable, nay necessary. Nevertheless, if the purest sentiments of a generous mind, streaming
forth like the rays of the sun reflected by a diamond, may ennoble one, who is in some sort
the daughter of a molendinary mechanic----"

"I have no time for all this, Sir Knight," said the Abbot; "be it enough to answer, that with
our will we war no longer with carnal weapons. We of the spirituality will teach you of the
temporality how to die in cold blood, our hands not clenched for resistance, but folded for
prayer--our minds not filled with jealous hatred, but with Christian meekness and forgiveness--our
ears not deafened, nor our senses confused, by the sound of clamorous instruments of war; but,
on the contrary, our voices composed to Halleluiah, Kyrie-Eleison, and Salve Regina, and our
blood temperate and cold, as those who think upon reconciling themselves with God, not of avenging
themselves of their fellow-mortals."

"Lord Abbot," said Sir Piercie, "this is nothing to the fate of my Molinara, whom I beseech
you to observe, I will not abandon, while golden hilt and steel blade bide together on my falchion.
I commanded her not to follow us to the field, and yet methought I saw her in her page's attire
amongst the rear of the combatants."

"You must seek elsewhere for the person in whose fate you are so deeply interested," said the
Abbot; "and at present I will pray of your knighthood to inquire concerning her at the church,
in which all our more defenceless vassals have taken refuge. It is my advice to you, that you
also abide by the horns of the altar; and, Sir Piercie Shafton," he added, "be of one thing
secure, that if you come to harm, it will involve the whole of this brotherhood; for never,
I trust, will the meanest of us buy safety at the expense of surrendering a friend or a guest.
Leave us, my son, and may God be your aid!"

When Sir Piercie Shafton had departed, and the Abbot was about to betake himself to his own
cell, he was surprised by an unknown person anxiously requiring a conference, who, being admitted,
proved to be no other than Henry Warden. The Abbot started as he entered, and exclaimed, angrily,--"Ha!
are the few hours that fate allows him who may last wear the mitre of this house, not to be
excused from the intrusion of heresy?  Dost thou come," he said, "to enjoy the hopes which
fete holds out to thy demented and accursed sect, to see the bosom of destruction sweep away
the pride of old religion--to deface our shrines,--to mutilate and lay waste the bodies of
our benefactors, as well as their sepulchres--to destroy the pinnacles and carved work of God's
house, and Our Lady's?"

"Peace, William Allan!" said the Protestant preacher, with dignified composure; "for none of
these purposes do I come. I would have these stately shrines deprived of the idols which, no
longer simply regarded as the effigies of the good and of the wise, have become the objects
of foul idolatry.  I would otherwise have its ornaments subsist, unless as they are, or may
be, a snare to the souls of men; and especially do I condemn those ravages which have been
made by the heady fury of the people, stung into zeal against will-worship by bloody persecution.
Against such wanton devastations I lift my testimony."

"Idle distinguisher that thou art!" said the Abbot Eustace, interrupting him; "what signifies
the pretext under which thou dost despoil the house of God? and why at this present emergence
will thou insult the master of it by thy ill-omened presence?"

"Thou art unjust, William Allan," said Warden; "but I am not the less settled in my resolution.
Thou hast protected me some time since at the hazard of thy rank, and what I know thou holdest
still dearer, at the risk of thy reputation with thine own sect. Our party is now uppermost,
and, believe me, I have come down the valley, in which thou didst quarter me for sequestration's
sake, simply with the wish to keep my engagements to thee."

"Ay," answered the Abbot, "and it may be, that my listening to that worldly and infirm compassion
which pleaded with me for thy life, is now avenged by this impending judgment. Heaven hath
smitten, it may be, the erring shepherd, and scattered the flock."

"Think better of the Divine judgments," said Warden. "Not for thy sins, which are those of
thy blended education and circumstances; not for thine own sins, William Allan, art thou stricken,
but for the accumulated guilt which thy mis-named Church hath accumulated on her head, and
those of her votaries, by the errors and corruption of ages."

"Now, by my sure belief in the Rock of Peter," said the Abbot, "thou dost rekindle the last
spark of human indignation for which my bosom has fuel--I thought I might not again have felt
the impulse of earthly passion, and it is thy voice which once more calls me to the expression
of human anger! yes, it is thy voice that comest to insult me in my hour of sorrow, with these
blasphemous accusations of that church which hath kept the light of Christianity alive from
the times of the Apostles till now."

"From the times of the Apostles?" said the preacher, eagerly. "Negatur, Gulielme Allan--the
primitive church differed as much from that of Rome, as did light from darkness, which, did
time permit, I should speedily prove. And worse dost thou judge, in saying, I come to insult
thee in thy hour of affliction, being here, God wot, with the Christian wish of fulfilling
an engagement I had made to my host, and of rendering myself to thy will while it had yet power
to exercise aught upon me, and if it might so be, to mitigate in thy behalf the rage of the
victors whom God hath sent as a scourge to thy obstinacy."

"I will none of thy intercession," said the Abbot, sternly; "the dignity to which the church
has exalted me, never should have swelled my bosom more proudly in the time of the highest
prosperity, than it doth at this crisis--I ask nothing of thee, but the assurance that my lenity
to thee hath been the means of perverting no soul to Satan, that I have not given to the wolf
any of the stray lambs whom the Great Shepherd of souls had intrusted to my charge."

"William Allan," answered the Protestant, "I will be sincere with thee.  What I promised I
have kept--I have withheld my voice from speaking even good things. But it has pleased Heaven
to call the maiden Mary Avenel to a better sense of faith than thou and all the disciples of
Rome can teach. Her I have aided with my humble power--I have extricated her from the machinations
of evil spirits to which she and her house were exposed during the blindness of their Romish
superstition, and, praise be to my Master, I have not reason to fear she will again be caught
in thy snares."

"Wretched man!" said the Abbot, unable to suppress his rising indignation, "is it to the Abbot
of St. Mary's that you boast having misled the soul of a dweller in Our Lady's Halidome into
the paths of foul error and damning heresy?--Thou dost urge me, Wellwood, beyond what it becomes
me to bear, and movest me to employ the few moments of power I may yet possess, in removing
from the face of the earth one whose qualities, given by God, have been so utterly perverted
as thine to the service of Satan."

"Do thy pleasure," said the preacher; "thy vain wrath shall not prevent my doing my duty to
advantage thee, where it may be done without neglecting my higher call. I go to the Earl of
Murray."

Their conference, which was advancing fast into bitter disputation, was here interrupted by
the deep and sullen toll of the largest and heaviest bell of the Convent, a sound famous in
the chronicles of the Community, for dispelling of tempests, and putting to flight demons,
but which now only announced danger, without affording any means of warding against it.  Hastily
repeating his orders, that all the brethren should attend in the choir, arrayed for solemn
procession, the Abbot ascended to the battlements of the lofty Monastery, by his own private
staircase, and there met the Sacristan, who had been in the act of directing the tolling of
the huge bell, which fell under his charge.

"It is the last time I shall discharge mine office, most venerable Father and Lord," said he
to the Abbot, "for yonder come the Philistines; but I would not that the large bell of Saint
Mary's should sound for the last time, otherwise than in true and full tone--I have been a
sinful man for one of our holy profession," added he, looking upward, "yet may I presume to
say, not a bell hath sounded out of tune from the tower of the house, while Father Philip had
the superintendence of the chime and the belfry."

The Abbot, without reply, cast his eyes towards the path, which, winding around the mountain,
descends upon Kennaquhair, from the south-east. He beheld at a distance a cloud of dust, and
heard the neighing of many horses, while the occasional sparkle of the long line of spears,
as they came downwards into the valley, announced that the band came thither in arms.

"Shame on my weakness!" said Abbot Eustace, dashing the tears from his eyes; "my sight is too
much dimmed to observe their motions--look, my son Edward," for his favourite novice had again
joined him, "and tell me what ensigns they bear."

"They are Scottish men, when all is done!" exclaimed Edward--"I see the white crosses--it may
be the Western Borderers, or Fernieherst and his clan."

"Look at the banner," said the Abbot; "tell me, what are the blazonries?"

"The arms of Scotland," said Edward, "the lion and its tressure, quartered, as I think, with
three cushions--Can it be the royal standard?"

"Alas! no," said the Abbot, "it is that of the Earl of Murray. He hath assumed with his new
conquest the badge of the valiant Randolph, and hath dropt from his hereditary coat the bend
which indicates his own base birth--would to God he may not have blotted it also from his memory,
and aim as well at possessing the name, as the power, of a king."

"At least, my father," said Edward, "he will secure us from the violence of the Southron."

"Ay, my son, as the shepherd secures a silly lamb from the wolf, which he destines in due time
to his own banquet. Oh my son, evil days are on us! A breach has been made in the walls of
our sanctuary--thy brother hath fallen from the faith. Such news brought my last secret intelligence--Murray
hath already spoken of rewarding his services with the hand of Mary Avenel."

"Of Mary Avenel!" said the novice, tottering towards and grasping hold of one of the carved
pinnacles which adorned the proud battlement.

"Ay, of Mary Avenel, my son, who has also abjured the faith of her fathers. Weep not, my Edward,
weep not, my beloved son! or weep for their apostasy, and not for their union--Bless God, who
hath called thee to himself, out of the tents of wickedness; but for the grace of Our Lady
and Saint Benedict, thou also hadst been a castaway."

"I endeavour, my father," said Edward, "I endeavour to forget; but what I would now blot from
my memory has been the thought of all my former life--Murray dare not forward a match so unequal
in birth."

"He dares do what suits his purpose--The Castle of Avenel is strong, and needs a good castellan,
devoted to his service; as for the difference of their birth, he will mind it no more than
he would mind defacing the natural regularity of the ground, were it necessary he should erect
upon it military lines and intrenchments. But do not droop for that--awaken thy soul within
thee, my son. Think you part with a vain vision, an idle dream, nursed in solitude and inaction.--I
weep not, yet what am I now like to lose?--Look at these towers, where saints dwelt, and where
heroes have been buried--Think that I, so briefly called to preside over the pious flock, which
has dwelt here since the first light of Christianity, may be this day written down the last
father of this holy community--Come, let us descend, and meet our fate. I see them approach
near to the village."

The Abbot descended, the novice cast a glance around him; yet the sense of the danger impending
over the stately structure, with which he was now united, was unable to banish the recollection
of Mary Ayenel.--"His brother's bride!" he pulled the cowl over his face, and followed his
Superior.

The whole bells of the Abbey now added their peal to the death-toll of the largest which had
so long sounded. The monks wept and prayed as they got themselves into the order of their procession
for the last time, as seemed but too probable.

"It is well our Father Boniface hath retired to the inland," said Father Philip; "he could
never have put over this day--it would have broken his heart!"

"God be with the soul of Abbot Ingelram!" said old Father Nicholas, "there were no such doings
in his days.--They say we are to be put forth of the cloisters; and how I am to live any where
else than where I have lived for these seventy years, I wot not--the best is, that I have not
long to live any where."

A few moments after this the great gate of the Abbey was flung open, and the procession moved
slowly forward from beneath its huge and richly-adorned gateway. Cross and banner, pix and
chalice, shrines containing relics, and censers steaming with incense, preceded and were intermingled
with the long and solemn array of the brotherhood, in their long black gowns and cowls, with
their white scapularies hanging over them, the various officers of the convent each displaying
his proper badge of office. In the centre of the procession came the Abbot, surrounded and
supported by his chief assistants. He was dressed in his habit of high solemnity, and appeared
as much unconcerned as if he had been taking his usual part in some ordinary ceremony. After
him came the inferior persons of the convent; the novices in their albs or white dresses, and
the lay brethren distinguished by their beards, which were seldom worn by the Fathers. Women
and children, mixed with a few men, came in the rear, bewailing the apprehended desolation
of their ancient sanctuary. They moved, however, in order, and restrained the marks of their
sorrow to a low wailing sound, which rather mingled with than interrupted the measured chant
of the monks.

In this order the procession entered the market-place of the village of Kennaquhair, which
was then, as now, distinguished by an ancient cross of curious workmanship, the gift of some
former monarch of Scotland. Close by the cross, of much greater antiquity, and scarcely less
honoured, was an immensely large oak-tree, which perhaps had witnessed the worship of the Druids,
ere the stately Monastery to which it adjoined had raised its spires in honour of the Christian
faith. Like the Bentang-tree of the African villages, or the Plaistow-oak mentioned in White's
Natural History of Selborne, this tree was the rendezvous of the villagers, and regarded with
peculiar veneration; a feeling common to most nations, and which perhaps may be traced up to
the remote period when the patriarch feasted the angels under the oak at Mamre. [Footnote:
It is scarcely necessary to say, that in Melrose, the prototype of Kennaquhair, no such oak
ever existed.]

The monks formed themselves each in their due place around the cross, while under the ruins
of the aged tree crowded the old and the feeble, with others who felt the common alarm. When
they had thus arranged themselves, there was a deep and solemn pause. The monks stilled their
chant, the lay populace hushed their lamentations, and all awaited in terror and silence the
arrival of those heretical forces, whom they had been so long taught to regard with fear and
trembling.

