With the knowledge I have acquired of the duties of the several officers, and the entire command
of my time here at a quiet place, and long-established methodical habits, I can get through
the work very well, though it becomes trying sometimes. Arrears I never allow to accumulate,
and regular hours, and exercise, and sparing diet, with water beverage, keep me always in condition
for office work. I often wish that you could have half the command of your hours, mode of living,
and movements, that I have. However, they will soon be much more free than mine. I am very
glad that you have the one year more for a wind up; and hope that good fortune will attend
you to the last. You say nothing, however, about your foot. The papers and letters from home
have just come in. I hear that Lord John is very unwell, and will not be able to stand the
work many months more, and that Sir R. Peel is obliged to be cupped once a-week, and could
not possibly take office. Who is to take helm in the troubled ocean, no one knows. I am glad
that Metternich has been kicked out, for he and Louis Philippe are the men that have put in
peril the peace and institutions of all Europe. I only wish that the middle class was as strong
in France as it is in England; it is no doubt infinitely stronger than it was; while the lower
order is better than that of England, I believe, for such occasions. They have good men now
in the provisional Government--so they had in 1788; and, like them, the present men will probably
be swept away by the mob. They are not, however, likely to be embarrassed by other nations,
since the days of Pitt and George III. are passed away, and so are the feudal times when the
barons could get up civil wars for their own selfish purposes. There are no characters sufficiently
prominent to get up a civil war, but the enormous size of the army is enough to create feelings
of disquiet. It is, however, officered from the middle classes, who have property at stake,
and must be more or less interested in the preservation of order.

The Government has no money to send to Algiers, and must reduce its strength there, so that
Egypt is in no danger at present; were it so, we should be called upon to defend it from India,
and could well do so. It is evident that the whole French nation was alienated from Louis Philippe,
and prepared to cast off him and all his family, though, as you say, I do not believe that
there was anywhere any design to oust him and put down monarchy. Had he thrown off Guizot a
little sooner, and left some able military leaders free to act, the émeute would have been
put down; but those who could have acted did not feel free to do so: they did not feel sure
of the king, while they were sure of the odium of the people. I am not at all sorry for the
change. I am persuaded that it will work good for Europe; but still its peace and best institutions
are in peril at present. We are in no danger here, because people do not understand such things;
and because England is in a prouder position than ever, and will, I trust, retain it.

Lord Grey seems an able man at home, but he is, I believe, hot- headed, and Lord Stanley is
ten times worse; he would soon have up the barricades in London. Lord Clarendon seems a safe
guide, but Peel is the man for the time, if he has the stamina. Lord Palmerston has conducted
the duties of his office with admirable tact of late; and much of the good feeling that prevails
in Europe towards England at present seems to arise from it. Amelie begs to be most kindly
remembered; she is here with her little boy--two girls at Munsoorie, and two girls and a boy
at home.

              Yours very sincerely,
                (Signed)     W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Hon. Sir T. H. Maddock,
         &c. &c. &c.

                                    Jhansee, 14th May, 1848.

My Dear Weston,

I have been directed by Government to name an officer whom I may consider competent to superintend
the suppression of Thuggee in the Punjaub, where a new class has been discovered, and some
progress has been made in finding and arresting them. I have, in reply, mentioned that I should
have Captain Williams, of the 29th, and Captain Chambers, of the 21st; but their services might
not be considered available, since the prescribed number of captains are already absent from
their regiments, and, in consequence, I have you. I know not whether you will like the duties;
if not, pray tell me as soon as possible.

The salary is 700 rupees a-month, with office-rent 40, and establishments 152. The duties are
interesting and important; and so good a foundation has been laid by Larkins and the other
local authorities, and all are so anxious to have the evil put down, that you will have the
most cordial support and co-operation of all, and the fairest prospect of success. But you
will have to apply yourself steadily to work, and if you have not passed, you should do so
as soon as possible. I do not see P. opposite your name, and Government may possibly object
on this ground. Let all this be entre nous for the present.

If you undertake the duties, you will have to go to Lodheeana, seeing Major Graham at Agra,
on the way, to get a little insight into the work.

                  Yours sincerely,
              (Signed)         W. H. SLEEMAN.

P.S.--You will be in the most interesting scene in India, and need be under no apprehension
about the permanency of the appointment.

To Lieut. Weston,
    &c. &c.

                                      Jhansee, 18th May, 1848.
My Dear Maddock,

Things are not going on so well as could be wished in the Punjaub; and it appears to me that
we have been there committing an error of the same kind that we committed in Afghanistan--that
is, taking upon ourselves the most odious part of the executive administration. In such a situation
this should have been avoided, if possible. There is a kind of chivalry in this--if there is
anything odious to be done, or repugnant to the feelings of the people, a young Englishman
thinks he must do it himself, lest he should be thought disposed to shift off a painful burthen
upon others; and he thinks it unbecoming of us to pay any regard to popular feeling. Of course,
also, the officers of the Sikh State are glad to get rid of such burthens while they see English
gentlemen ready to carry them. Now, it strikes me that we might, with a little tact, have altered
all this, and retained the good feelings of the people, by throwing the executive upon the
officers of the Sikh State, and remaining ourselves in the dignified position of Appellate
Courts for the redress of grievances inflicted by these officers in neglect of duty or abuse
of authority. Our duty would have been to guide, control, and check, and the head of all might
have been like the sovereigns of England--known only by his acts of grace.

By keeping in this dignified position we should not only have retained the good feelings of
the people, but we should have been teaching the Sikh officers their administrative duties
till the time comes for making over the country; and the chief and Court would have found the
task, made over to them under such a system, more easy to sustain. In Afghanistan we did the
reverse of all this, and became intolerably odious to the mass of the people; for they saw
that everything that was harsh was done by us, and the officers of the King were disposed to
confirm and increase this impression because they were not employed. The people of the Punjaub
are not such fanatics, and they are more divided in creed and caste, while they see no ranges
of snowy mountains, barren rocks, and difficult passes between us and our reinforcements and
resources; but it seems clear that there is a good deal of excitement and bad feeling growing
up amongst them that may be very mischievous. All the newspapers, English and native, make
the administration appear to be altogether English--it is Captain This, Mr. That, who do, or
are expected to do, everything; and all over the country the native chiefs will think, that
the leaving the country to the management of the Sirdars was a mere mockery and delusion.

We should keep our hands as much as possible out of the harsh and dirty part of the executive
work, that the European officers may be looked up to with respect as the effectual check upon
the native administrators; always prepared to check any disposition on their part to neglect
their duty or abuse their power, and thereby bring their Government into disrepute. Of course,
the outrage at Mooltan must be avenged, and our authority there established; but, when this
is done, Currie should be advised to avoid the rock upon which our friend Macnaghten was wrecked.
We are too impatient to jump down the throats of those who venture to look us in the face,
and to force upon them our modes of doing the work of the country, and to superintend the doing
it ourselves in all its details, or having it done by creatures of our own, commonly ten times
more odious to the people than we are ourselves.

It is unfortunate that this outrage, and the excitement to which it has given rise, should
have come so quickly upon Lord Hardinge's assurances at the London feast, and amidst the turmoil
of popular movements at home. It has its use in showing us the necessity of being always prepared.

Baba Bulwunt Row tells me that he has got a letter from you in the form of Khureela, and claims
one from me on that ground. Shall I comply? We have avoided this hitherto, as the Pundits put
him up to claim everything that the Bae's family had, not even omitting the Thalone principality;
and hints have been dropped of a mission to England, if the money could be got. I wish to subdue
these pretensions for his own sake, that he may not be entirely ruined by temptations to expensive
displays. He has now got the entire management of his own affairs, and is a sensible, well-disposed
lad. He was never recognised as the Bae's successor by Government or the Agent, nor was he
written to on the Bae's death. Cunput Row Bhaca was the person addressed in the letter of condolence.
His son has run through all he has or can borrow, and is in a bad way. Moresor Row has the
reputation of being very rich, though he pleads poverty always. The whole of the Saugor territories,
save Mundla, have benefited by two very fine seasons, with great demand for land produce, and
the people are happy. I have asked for reductions in Mundla, to save the little of tillage
and population that has been left. The whole revenue is a mere trifle in such a jungle as you
know it to be, and when once the people go off, there is no getting them back. Deer destroy
the crops upon the few fields left, tigers come to eat the deer, and malaria follows, to sweep
off the remaining few families.

I must not prose any longer at present. Amelia often talks of you, and begs to be kindly remembered.

              Ever yours sincerely,
           (Signed)     W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Hon. Sir T. H. Maddock,
       &c. &c. &c.

                                        Jhansee, 28th May, 1848.
My Dear Maddock,

I yesterday sent off by Dawk Bangy an elaborate Report on Dacoits by hereditary profession,
and on the measures adopted by the Government of India for their suppression, and hope it will
reach Calcutta before the rains set in heavily. Government may be justly proud of the good
which it shows to have been effected for the people of India in the course of a brief period;
and I am glad that you have for this period been a member of it. There is much in the Report
to interest the general reader, but much of what is inserted would, of course, have been left
out by any one who had to consult the wishes of such readers only.

At this time last year I had not the slightest hope of ever being able to lay such a Report
before Government; for I never expected to find leisure in my present office, and could not
carry the requisite records with me, if driven away by sickness, to where I might find it.
The papers lay mouldering in an old box, to which I had consigned them in 1840, when I withdrew
them from the press, under the impression that Lord Auckland thought that the exposition of
the terrible evil ought not to appear till more progress had been made in its suppression;
as G. Thompson and other itinerant orators would be glad to get hold of them to abuse the Government.
The Report is infinitely more interesting and complete than it could have been then, and may
bid defiance to all such orators.

If printed, it will take from 400 to 450 pages, such as those of the late Report on the Indian
Penal Code, and be a neat and useful volume for reference. I began it in the rains last year,
but was stopped short by a fever, and unable to continue it till I set out on my tour. Three-fourths
of it was written in the intervals between the morning's march and breakfast-time during my
tour through the Saugor territories.

The tables of dacoitees ascertained to have been committed by the dacoits described, and of
the conditionally pardoned offenders, will follow, and be found useful for reference, but should
not, perhaps, be in the same volume with the text of the Report; of that, however, I leave
Government to judge. I thank God that I have been able to place before it so complete and authentic
a record of what has been done to carry out its views.

              Ever most sincerely yours,
             (Signed)         W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Hon. Sir T. H. Maddock,
       &c. &c. &c.

                                     Jhansee, 15th August, 1848.

My Lord,

As it is possible that the letter which I addressed to your Lordship on the 6th of March last,
and sent open to Mr. Melvill, the Secretary at the India House, may have miscarried; I write
to mention that I sent it, lest it might be supposed that I was insensible of the kindness
which induced your Lordship to write to me before leaving India. The work which made me delay
so long to reply to that letter is now being printed in Calcutta, under the authority of Government;
and, as it contains much that is curious and entertaining, and honourable to our rule in India,
I trust at no distant day to have the honour of presenting a copy to your Lordship.

Amidst events of such absorbing interest as are now taking place every day in Europe, India
cannot continue long to engage much of your thoughts; for, with the exception of the little
outbreak at Mooltan, tranquillity prevails, and is likely to do so for some time. There has
been delay in putting down the Mooltan rebels, but the next mail will, I hope, take home news
of the work having been effectually done. This delay seems to have arisen from a notion that
troops ought not to be employed in the hot winds and rains; but when occasion requires they
can be employed at all times, and the people of India require to be assured that they can be
so. It has not, I think, been found that troops actually employed in the hot winds and rains
lose more men than in cantonments, at least native troops.

It was, I think, your Lordship's intention that, in the Lahore state, we should guide, direct,
and supervise the administration, but not take all the executive upon ourselves, to the exclusion
of all the old native aristocracy, as we had done in Afghanistan. This policy has not, I am
afraid, been adhered to sufficiently; and we have, probably, less of the sympathy and cordial
good-will of the higher and middle classes than we should otherwise have had. But I am too
far from the scene to be a fair judge in such matters.

The policy of interposing Hindoo native states between us and the beggarly fanatical countries
to the north-west no wise man can, I think, doubt; for, however averse our Government may be
to encroach and creep on, it would be drawn on by the intermeddling dispositions and vainglory
of local authorities; and every step would be ruinous, and lead to another still more ruinous.
With the Hindoo principalities on our border we shall do very well, and trust that we shall
long be able to maintain them in the state required for their own interests and ours.

I wish England would put forth its energies to raise the colony of New Zealand, the queen of
the Pacific Ocean; for the relations between that island and India must some day become very
intimate, and the sooner it begins the better. I am very glad to find by the last mail that
the French have put their affairs into better hands--those of practical men, instead of visionaries.

My Dear Sir Erskine,

I thank you for kindly sending me a copy of your Address to the Native Youth at Bombay and
their Parents, and should have done so earlier, but it has been in circulation among many of
my friends who feel interested in the subject. Whatever may be thought of the question as to
where we should begin, all concur in acknowledging the truth of your conclusions as to the
value and use of the knowledge we wish to impart, and in admiring the language and sentiment
of your Address.

There are some passages of great beauty, which I wish all persons could read and remember;
and I do not recollect ever having seen one that has pleased me more, for its truths and elegance,
than that beginning, "But if a manufacturing population." That which begins with--"The views,
young men, as to the true object and ends to be attained," is no less truthful and excellent.

It is unfortunate that the education which we have to supplant in India is so blended with
the religion of the people, as far as Hindoos are concerned, that we cannot make progress without
exciting alarm. Had a nation, endowed with all the knowledge we have, come into Europe in the
days of Galileo and Copernicus, and attempted to impart it to the mass of the people, or to
the higher classes only, the same alarm would have been raised, or nearly the same. We must
be content with small, or slow progress; but there are certain branches of knowledge, highly
useful to the people, that are finding their way among them from our metropolitan establishments,
and working good.

I might better have said, that had we come into Greece when Homer was the Bible of the people,
with all our astronomy, chemistry, and physical science generally, and our literature, blended
as it is with our religion, we should have found our Greek fellow-subjects as untractable as
the Hindoos or Parsees. The fact is, that every Hindoo, educated through our language in our
literature and science, must be more or less wretched in domestic life, for he cannot feel
or think with his family, or bring them to feel or think with him. The knowledge which he has
acquired satisfies him that the faith to which they adhere, and which guides them in all their
duties, ceremonies, acts, and habits, is monstrous and absurd; but he can never hope to impart
to them this knowledge, or to alienate them from that faith; nor does he himself feel any confidence
in any other creed: he feels that he is an isolated being, who can exchange thoughts and feelings
unreservedly with no one. I have seen many estimable Hindoos in this state, with minds highly
gifted and cultivated, and with abilities for anything. For such men we cannot create communities,
nor can they create them for themselves: they can enjoy their books and conversation with men
who understand and enjoy them like themselves; but how few are the men of this class with whom
they can ever hope to associate on easy terms! It is not so with Mahommedans. All the literature
and science in the world has no more effect on their faith than on ours; and their families
apprehend no alienation in any member who may choose to indulge in them; and they indulge in
them little, merely because they do not find that they conduce to secure them employment and bread.

I think it would be useful if we could get rid of the terms education, civilization, &c., and
substitute that of knowledge. It would obviate much controversy, for the greater part of our
disputes arise from the vagueness of the terms we use. All would agree that certain branches
of knowledge are useful to certain classes, and that certain modes are the best for imparting
them. The subject is deeply interesting and important; but I must not indulge further.

          Believe me, My Dear Sir Erskine,
             With great respect,
                Yours very faithfully,
               (Signed)     W. H. SLEEMAN.

 To Sir Erskine Perry,
 Chief Justice, Bombay.

                                 Jhansee, 24th September, 1848.

My Lord,

I feel grateful for the offer contained in your Lordship's letter of the 16th instant, and
no less so for the gracious manner in which it has been conveyed, and beg to say that I shall
be glad to avail myself of it, and be prepared to proceed to take charge as soon as I am directed
to do so, as I have no arrears in any of my offices to detain me, and can make them over to
any one at the shortest notice, with the assurance that he will find nothing in them to perplex
or embarrass him.

I shall do my best to carry out your Lordship's views in the new charge; and though I am not
so strong as I could wish, I may, with prudence, hope to have health for a few years to sustain
me in duties of so much interest.

I hope your Lordship will pardon my taking advantage of the present occasion to say a few words
on the state of affairs in the north- west, which are now of such absorbing interest. I have
been for some time impressed with the belief that the system of administration in the Punjaub
has created doubts as to the ultimate intention of our Government with regard to the restoration
of the country to the native ruler when he comes of age. The native aristocracy of the country
seem to have satisfied themselves that our object has been to retain the country, and that
this could be prevented only by timely resistance. The sending European officers to relieve
the chief of Mooltan, and to take possession of the country and fort, seems to have removed
the last lingering doubt upon this point; and Molraj seems to have been satisfied that in destroying
them he should be acting according to the wishes of all his class, and all that portion of
the population who might aspire to employment under a native rule. This was precisely the impression
created by precisely the same means in Afghanistan; and I believe that the notion now generally
prevalent is, that our professed intentions of delivering over the country to its native ruler
were not honest, and that we should have appropriated the country to ourselves could we have
done so.

There are two classes of native Governments in India. In one the military establishments are
all national, and depend entirely upon the existence of native rule. They are officered by
the aristocracy of the country, chiefly landed, who know that they are not fitted for either
civil or military office under our system, and must be reduced to beggary or insignificance
should our rule be substituted for that of their native chief. In the other, all the establishments
are foreign, like our own. The Seiks were not altogether of the first class, like those of
Rajpootana and Bundelcund, but they were so for the most part; and when they saw all offices
of trust by degrees being filled by Captain This and Mr. That, they gave up all hopes of ever
having their share in the administration.

Satisfied that this was our error in Afghanistan, in carrying out the views of Lord Ellenborough
in the Gwalior State, I did everything in my power to avoid it, and have entirely succeeded,
I believe; but it has not been done without great difficulty. I considered Lord Hardinge's
measures good, as they interposed Hindoo States between us and a beggarly and fanatical country,
which it must be ruinous to our finances to retain, and into which we could not avoid making
encroachments, however anxious the Government might be to avoid it, if our borders joined.
But I supposed that we should be content with guiding, controlling, and supervising the native
administration, and not take all the executive upon ourselves to the almost entire exclusion
of the native aristocracy. I had another reason for believing that Lord Hardinge's measures
were wise and prudent. While we have a large portion of the country under native rulers, their
administration will contrast with ours greatly to our advantage in the estimation of the people;
and we may be sure that, though some may be against us, many will be for us. If we succeed
in sweeping them all away, or absorbing them, we shall be at the mercy of our native army,
and they will see it; and accidents may possibly occur to unite them, or a great portion of
them, in some desperate act. The thing is possible, though improbable; and the best provision
against it seems to me to be the maintenance of native rulers, whose confidence and affection
can be engaged, and administrations improved under judicious management.

The industrial classes in the Punjaub would, no doubt, prefer our rule to that of the Seiks;
but that portion who depend upon public employment under Government for their subsistence is
large in the Punjaub, and they would nearly all prefer a native rule. They have evidently persuaded
themselves that our intention is to substitute our own rule; and it is now, I fear, too late
to remove the impression. If your Lordship is driven to annexation, you must be in great force;
and a disposition must be shown on the part of the local authorities to give the educated aristocracy
of the country a liberal share in the administration.

One of the greatest dangers to be apprehended in India is, I believe, the disposition on the
part of the dominant class to appoint to all offices members of their own class, to the exclusion
of the educated natives. This has been nobly resisted hitherto; but where every subaltern thinks
himself in a condition to take a wife, and the land opens no prospect to his children but in
the public service, the competition will become too great.

P.S.--The Commander-in-Chief has asked me, through the Quartermaster- General, whether any
corps can be spared from Bundelcund. I shall say that we can spare two regiments--one from
Nagode, whose place can be supplied by a wing of the regiment at Nowgow, and one from Jhansee,
whose place can be supplied from the Gwalior Contingent, if your Lordship sees no objection,
as a temporary arrangement.

                 (Signed)     W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Right Hon.
the Earl of Dalhousie,
   &c. &c. &c.

                                   Lucknow, 30th January, 1849.

My Dear Elliot,

A salute of twenty-one guns had been fired here by the King for the sadly dear victory over
Shere Sing, and another has been fired to-day for the fall of Mooltan. The King continues very
ill, but no danger seems to be apprehended. The disease is accompanied by very untoward secondary
symptoms, which are likely ultimately to destroy him, and render his life miserable while it
lasts. How much of these symptoms he derives from his birth, and how much from his own excesses,
is uncertain.

