In order to be more at liberty he separated from the general officers, and established himself
with his valets and two or three of his most familiar friends, cherished companions everywhere,
at Vignarez, a little isolated hamlet, almost deserted, on the sea-shore and in the kingdom
of Valencia.  His object was to eat fish there to his heart's content.  He carried out that
object, and filled himself to repletion for nearly a month. He became unwell--his diet, as
may be believed, was enough to cause this--but his illness increased so rapidly, and in so
strange a manner, after having for a long time seemed nothing that the few around him suspected
poison, and sent on all sides for assistance. But the malady would not wait; it augmented rapidly
with strange symptoms. Vendome could not sign a will that was presented to him; nor a letter
to the King, its which he asked that his brother might be permitted to return to Court.  Everybody
near flew from him and abandoned him, so that he remained in the hands of three or four of
the meanest valets, whilst the rest robbed him of everything and decamped.  He passed thus
the last two or three days of his life, without a priest,--no mention even had been made of
one,--without other help than that of a single surgeon. The three or four valets who remained
near him, seeing him at his last extremity, seized hold of the few things he still possessed,
and for want of better plunder, dragged off his bedclothes and the mattress from under him.
He piteously cried to them at least not to leave him to die naked upon the bare bed.  I know
not whether they listened to him.

Thus died on Friday, the 10th of June, 1712, the haughtiest of men; and the happiest, except
in the later years of his life.  After having been obliged to speak of him so often, I get
rid of him now, once and for ever.  He was fifty-eight years old; but in spite of the blind
and prodigious favour he had enjoyed, that favour had never been able to make ought but a cabal
hero out of a captain who was a very bad general, and a man whose vices were the shame of humanity.
His death restored life and joy to all Spain.

Aguilar, a friend of the Duc de Noailles, was accused of having poisoned him; but took little
pains to defend himself, inasmuch as little pains were taken to substantiate the accusation.
The Princesse des Ursins, who had so well profited by his life in order to increase her own
greatness, did not profit less by his death.  She felt her deliverance from a new Don Juan
of Spain who had ceased to be supple in her hands, and who might have revived, in the course
of time, all the power and authority he had formerly enjoyed in France.  She was not shocked
them by the joy which burst out without constraint; nor by the free talk of the Court, the
city, the army, of all Spain.  But in order to sustain what she had done, and cheaply pay her
court to M. du Maine, Madame de Maintenon, and even to the King, she ordered that the corpse
of this hideous monster of greatness and of fortune should be carried to the Escurial.  This
was crowning the glory of M. de Vendome in good earnest; for no private persons are buried
in the Escurial, although several are to be found in Saint-Denis.  But meanwhile, until I speak
of the visit I made to the Escurial--I shall do so if I live long enough to carry these memoirs
up to the death of M. d'Orleans,--let me say something of that illustrious sepulchre.

The Pantheon is the place where only the bodies of kings and queens who have had posterity
are admitted.  In a separate place, near, though not on the same floor, and resembling a library,
the bodies of children, and of queens who have had no posterity, are ranged.  A third place,
a sort of antechamber to the last named, is rightly called "the rotting room;" whilst the other
improperly bears the same name.  In whilst third room, there is nothing to be seen but four
bare walls and a table in the middle.  The walls being very thick, openings are made in them
in which the bodies are placed.  Each body has an opening to itself, which is afterwards walled
up, so that nothing is seen.  When it is thought that the corpse has been closed up sufficiently
long to be free from odour the wall is opened, the body taken out, and put in a coffin which
allows a portion of it to be seen towards the feet.  This coffin is covered with a rich stuff
and carried into an adjoining room.

The body of the Duc de Vendome had been walled up nine years when I entered the Escurial. 
I was shown the place it occupied, smooth like every part of the four walls and without mark.
I gently asked the monks who did me the honours of the place, when the body would be removed
to the other chamber.  They would not satisfy my curiosity, showed some indignation, and plainly
intimated that this removal was not dreamt of, and that as M. de Vendome had been so carefully
walled up he might remain so!

Harlay, formerly chief-president, of whom I have so often had occasion to speak, died a short
time after M. de Vendome.  I have already made him known.  I will simply add an account of
the humiliation to which this haughty cynic was reduced.  He hired a house in the Rue de l'Universite
with a partition wall between his garden and that of the Jacobins of the Faubourg Saint-Germain.
The house did not belong to the Jacobins, like the houses of the Rue Saint-Dominique, and the
Rue du Bac, which, in order that they might command higher rents, were put in connection with
the convent garden.  These mendicant Jacobins thus derive fifty thousand livres a-year.  Harlay,
accustomed to exercise authority, asked them for a door into their garden.  He was refused.
He insisted, had them spoken to, and succeeded no better.  Nevertheless the Jacobins comprehended
that although this magistrate, recently so powerful, was now nothing by himself, he had a son
and a cousin, Councillors of State, whom they might some day have to do with, and who for pride's
sake might make themselves very disagreeable.  The argument of interest is the best of all
with monks.  The Jacobins changed their mind.  The Prior, accompanied by some of the notabilities
of the convent, went to Harlay with excuses, and said he was at liberty, if he liked, to make
the door.  Harlay, true to his character, looked at them askance, and replied, that he had
changed his mind and would do without it.  The monks, much troubled by his refusal, insisted;
he interrupted them and said, "Look you, my fathers, I am grandson of Achille du Harlay, Chief-President
of the Parliament, who so well served the State and the Kingdom, and who for his support of
the public cause was dragged to the Bastille, where he expected to be hanged by those rascally
Leaguers; it would ill become me, therefore, to enter the house, or pray to God there, of folks
of the same stamp as that Jacques Clement."  And he immediately turned his back upon them,
leaving them confounded.  This was his last act of vigour.  He took it into his head afterwards
to go out visiting a good deal, and as he preserved all his old unpleasant manners, he afflicted
all he visited; he went even to persons who had often cooled their heels in his antechambers.
By degrees, slight but frequent attacks of apoplexy troubled his speech, so that people had
great difficulty in understanding him, and he in speaking.  In this state he did not cease
his visits and could not perceive that many doors were closed to him.  He died in this misery,
and this neglect, to the great relief of the few who by relationship were obliged to see him,
above all of his son and his domestic.

On the 17th July, a truce between France and England was published in Flanders, at the head
of the troops of the two crowns.  The Emperor, however, was not yet inclined for peace and
his forces under Prince Eugene continued to oppose us in Flanders, where, however, the tide
at last turned in our favour.  The King was so flattered by the overflow of joy that took place
at Fontainebleau on account of our successes, that he thanked the country for it, for the first
time in his life.  Prince Eugene, in want of bread and of everything, raised the siege of Landrecies,
which he had been conducting, and terrible desertion took place among his troops.

About this time, there was an irruption of wolves, which caused great disorders in the Orleannais;
the King's wolf-hunters were sent there, and the people were authorised to take arms and make
a number of grand battues.

CHAPTER LXII.

Peace was now all but concluded between France and England.  There was, however, one great
obstacle still in its way.  Queen Anne and her Council were stopped by the consideration that
the king of Spain would claim to succeed to the Crown of France, if the little Dauphin should
die. Neither England nor any of the other powers at war would consent to see the two principal
crowns of Europe upon the same head.  It was necessary, then, above all things to get rid of
this difficulty, and so arrange the order of succession to our throne, that the case to be
provided against could never happen.  Treaties, renunciations, and oaths, all of which the
King had already broken, appeared feeble guarantees in the eyes of Europe.  Something stronger
was sought for.  It could not be found; because there is nothing more sacred among men than
engagements which they consider binding on each other.  What was wanting then in mere forms
it was now thought could be supplied by giving to those forms the greatest possible solemnity.

It was a long time before we could get over the difficulty.  The King would accord nothing
except promises in order to guarantee to Europe that the two crowns should never be united
upon the same head.  His authority was wounded at the idea of being called upon to admit, as
it were, a rival near it.  Absolute without reply, as he had become, he had extinguished and
absorbed even the minutest trace, idea, and recollection of all other authority, all other
power in France except that which emanated from himself alone.  The English, little accustomed
to such maxims, proposed that the States-General should assemble in order to give weight to
the renunciations to be made.  They said, and with reason, that it was not enough that the
King of Spain should renounce France unless France renounced Spain; and that this formality
was necessary in order to break the double bonds which attached Spain to France, as France
was attached to Spain.  Accustomed to their parliaments, which are in effect their States-General,
they believed ours preserved the same authority, and they thought such authority the greatest
to be obtained and the best capable of solidly supporting that of the King.

The effect of this upon the mind of a Prince almost deified in his own eyes, and habituated
to the most unlimited despotism, cannot be expressed.  To show him that the authority of his
subjects was thought necessary in order to confirm his own, wounded him in his most delicate
part.  The English were made to understand the weakness and the uselessness of what they asked;
for the powerlessness of our States- General was explained to them, and they saw at once how
vain their help would be, even if accorded.

For a long time nothing was done; France saying that a treaty of renunciation and an express
confirmatory declaration of the King, registered in the Parliament, were sufficient; the English
replying by reference to the fate of past treaties.  Peace meanwhile was arranged with the
English, and much beyond our hopes remained undisturbed.

In due time matters were so far advanced in spite of obstacles thrown in the way by the allies,
that the Duc d'Aumont was sent as ambassador into England; and the Duke of Hamilton was named
as ambassador for France. This last, however, losing his life in a duel with Lord Mohun, the
Duke of Shrewsbury was appointed in his stead.

At the commencement of the new year [1713] the Duke and Duchess of Shrewsbury arrived in Paris.
The Duchess was a great fat masculine creature, more than past the meridian, who had been beautiful
and who affected to be so still; bare bosomed; her hair behind her ears; covered with rouge
and patches, and full of finicking ways.  All her manners were that of a mad thing, but her
play, her taste, her magnificence, even her general familiarity, made her the fashion.  She
soon declared the women's head-dresses ridiculous, as indeed they were.  They were edifices
of brass wire, ribbons, hair, and all sorts of tawdry rubbish more than two feet high, making
women's faces seem in the middle of their bodies.  The old ladies wore the same, but made of
black gauze.  If they moved ever so lightly the edifice trembled and the inconvenience was
extreme.  The King could not endure them, but master as he was of everything was unable to
banish them.  They lasted for ten years and more, despite all he could say and do.  What this
monarch had been unable to perform, the taste and example of a silly foreigner accomplished
with the most surprising rapidity.  From extreme height, the ladies descended to extreme lowness,
and these head-dresses, more simple; more convenient, and more becoming, last even now.  Reasonable
people wait with impatience for some other mad stranger who will strip our dames of these immense
baskets, thoroughly insupportable to themselves and to others.

Shortly after the Duke of Shrewsbury arrived in Paris, the Hotel de Powis in London, occupied
by our ambassador the Duc d'Aumont, was burnt to the ground.  A neighbouring house was pulled
down to prevent others catching fire.  The plate of M. d'Aumont was saved.  He pretended to
have lost everything else.  He pretended also to have received several warnings that his house
was to be burnt and himself assassinated, and that the Queen, to whom he had mentioned these
warnings, offered to give him a guard.  People judged otherwise in London and Paris, and felt
persuaded he himself had been the incendiary in order to draw money from the King and also
to conceal some monstrous smuggling operations, by which he gained enormously, and which the
English had complained of ever since his arrival.  This is at least what was publicly said
in the two courts and cities, and nearly everybody believed it.

But to return to the peace.  The renunciations were ready, towards the middle of March, and
were agreed upon.  The King was invited to sign them by his own most pressing interest; and
the Court of England, to which we owed all, was not less interested in consummating this grand
work, so as to enjoy, with the glory of having imposed it upon all the powers, that domestic
repose which was unceasingly disturbed by the party opposed to the government, which party,
excited by the enemies of peace abroad, could not cease to cause disquiet to the Queen's minister,
while, by delay in signing, vain hopes of disturbing the peace or hindering its ratification
existed in people's minds.  The King of Spain had made his renunciations with all the solidity
and solemnity which could be desired from the laws, customs, and usages of Spain.  It only
remained for France to imitate him.

For the ceremony that was to take place, all that could be obtained in order to render it more
solemn was the presence of the peers.  But the King was so jealous of his authority, and so
little inclined to pay attention to that of others, that he wished to content himself with
merely saying in a general way that he hoped to find all the peers at the Parliament when the
renunciations were made.  I told M. d'Orleans that if the King thought such an announcement
as this was enough he might rely upon finding not a single peer at the Parliament.  I added,
that if the King did not himself invite each peer, the master of the ceremonies ought to do
so for him, according to the custom always followed.  This warning had its effect.  We all
received written invitations, immediately. Wednesday, the 18th of May, was fixed for the ceremony.

At six o'clock on the morning of that day I went to the apartments of M. le Duc de Berry, in
parliamentary dress, and shortly afterwards M. d'Orleans came there also, with a grand suite.
It had been arranged that the ceremony was to commence by a compliment from the Chief-President
de Mesmes to M. le Duc de Berry, who was to reply to it.  He was much troubled at this.  Madame
de Saint-Simon, to whom he unbosomed himself; found means, through a subaltern, to obtain the
discourse of the Chief- President, and gave it to M. le Duc de Berry, to regulate his reply
by. This, however, seemed too much for him; he admitted so to Madame de Saint-Simon, and that
he knew not what to do.  She proposed that I should take the work off his hands; and he was
delighted with the expedient. I wrote, therefore, a page and a half full of common-sized paper
in an ordinary handwriting.  M. le Duc de Berry liked it, but thought it too long to be learnt.
I abridged it; he wished it to be still shorter, so that at last there was not more than three-quarters
of a page.  He had learned it by heart, and repeated it in his cabinet the night before the
ceremony to Madame de Saint-Simon, who encouraged him as much as she could.

At about half-past six o'clock we set out--M. le Duc d'Orleans, M. le Duc de Berry, myself,
and M. le Duc de Saint-Aignan, in one coach, several other coaches following.  M. le Duc de
Berry was very silent all the journey, appearing to be much occupied with the speech he had
learned by heart.  M. d'Orleans, on the contrary, was full of gaiety, and related some of his
youthful adventures, and his wild doings by night in the streets of Paris.  We arrived gently
at the Porte de la Conference, that is to say--for it is now pulled down--at the end of the
terrace, and of the Quai of the Tuileries.

We found there the trumpeters and drummers of M. le Duc de Berry's guard, who made a great
noise all the rest of our journey, which ended at the Palais de justice.  Thence we went to
the Sainte-Chapelle to hear mass. The Chapelle was filled with company, among which were many
people of quality.  The crowd of people from this building to the grand chamber was so great
that a pin could not have fallen to the ground.  On all sides, too, folks had climbed up to
see what passed.

All the Princes of the blood, the bastards, the peers and the parliament, were assembled in
the palace.  When M. le Duc de Berry entered, everything was ready.  Silence having with difficulty
been obtained, the Chief-President paid his compliment to the Prince.  When he had finished,
it was for M. le Duc de Berry to reply.  He half took off his hat, immediately put it back
again, looked at the Chief-President, and said, "Monsieur;" after a moment's pause he repeated
"Monsieur."  Then he looked at the assembly, and again said, "Monsieur."   Afterwards he turned
towards M. d'Orleans, who, like himself, was as red as fire, next to the Chief-President, and
finally stopped short, nothing else than "Monsieur" having been able to issue from his mouth.

I saw distinctly the confusion of M. le Duc de Berry, and sweated at it; but what could be
done?  The Duke turned again towards M. d'Orleans, who lowered his head.  Both were dismayed.
At last the Chief-President, seeing there was no other resource, finished this cruel scene
by taking off his cap to M. le Duc de Berry, and inclining himself very low, as if the response
was finished.  Immediately afterwards he told the King's people to begin.  The embarrassment
of all the courtiers and the surprise of the magistracy may be imagined.

The renunciations were then read; and by these the King of Spain and his posterity gave up
all claim to the throne of France, and M. le Duc d'Orleans, and M. le Duc de Berry to succeed
to that of Spain.  These and other forms occupied a long time.  The chamber was all the while
crowded to excess.  There was not room for a single other person to enter.  It was very late
when all was over.

When everything was at an end M. de Saint-Aignan and I accompanied M. le Duc de Berry and M.
le Duc d'Orleans in a coach to the Palais Royal.  On the way the conversation was very quiet.
M. le Duc de Berry appeared dispirited, embarrassed, and vexed.  Even after we had partaken
of a splendid and delicate dinner, to which an immense number of other guests sat down, he
did not improve.  We were conducted to the Porte Saint- Honore with the same pomp as that in
the midst, of which we had entered Paris.  During the rest of the journey to Versailles M.
le Duc de Berry was as silent as ever.

To add to his vexation, as soon as he arrived at Versailles the Princesse de Montauban, without
knowing a word of what had passed, set herself to exclaim, with her usual flattery, that she
was charmed with the grace and the appropriate eloquence with which he had spoken at the Parliament,
and paraphrased this theme with all the praises of which it was susceptible. M. le Duc de Berry
blushed with vexation without saying a word; she recommenced extolling his modesty, he blushing
the more, and saying nothing.  When at last he had got rid of her, he went to his own apartments,
said not, a word to the persons he found there, scarcely one to Madame his wife, but taking
Madame de Saint-Simon with him, went into his library, and shut himself up alone there with her.

Throwing himself into an armchair he cried out that he was dishonoured, and wept scalding tears.
Then he related to Madame de Saint-Simon, in the midst of sobs, how he had stuck fast at the
Parliament, without being able to utter a word, said that he should everywhere be regarded
as an ass and a blockhead, and repeated the compliments he had received from Madame de Montauban,
who, he said, had laughed at and insulted him, knowing well what had happened; then, infuriated
against her to the last degree, he called her by all sots of names.  Madame de Saint-Simon
spared no exertion in order to calm M. de Berry, assuring him that it was impossible Madame
de Montauban could know what had taken place at the Parliament, the news not having then reached
Versailles, and that she had had no other object than flattery in addressing him.  Nothing
availed. Complaints and silence succeeded each other in the midst of tears.  Then, suddenly
falling upon the Duc de Beauvilliers and the King, and accusing the defects of his education:
"They thought only;" he exclaimed, "of making me stupid, and of stifling all my powers.  I
was a younger son.  I coped with my brother.  They feared the consequences; they annihilated
me.  I was taught only to play and to hunt,: and they have succeeded in making me a fool and
an ass, incapable of anything, the laughing-stock and disdain of everybody."  Madame de Saint-Simon
was overpowered with compassion, and did everything to calm M. de Berry. Their strange tete-a-tete
lasted nearly two hours, and resumed the next day but with less violence.  By degrees M. le
Duc de Berry became consoled, but never afterwards did any one dare to speak to him of his
misadventure at the peace ceremony.

Let me here say that, the ceremony over, peace was signed at Utrecht on the 20th April, 1713,
at a late hour of the night.  It was published in Paris with great solemnity on the 22nd. 
Monsieur and Madame du Maine, who wished to render themselves popular, came from Sceaux to
see the ceremony in the Place Royale, showed themselves on a balcony to the people, to whom
they threw some money--a liberality that the King would not have permitted in anybody else.
At night fires were lighted before the houses, several of which were illuminated: On the 25th
a Te Deum was sung at Notre Dame, and in the evening there was a grand display of fireworks
at the Grave, which was followed by a superb banquet given at the Hotel de Ville by the Duc
de Tresmes, the Governor of Paris, to a large number of distinguished persons of both sexes
of the Court and the city, twenty-four violins playing during the repast.

I have omitted to mention the death of M. de Chevreise, which took place between seven and
eight o'clock in the morning on Saturday, the 5th of November; of the previous year (1712).
I have so often alluded to M. de Chevreuse in the course of these pages, that I will content
myself with relating here two anecdotes of him, which serve to paint a part of his character.

He was very forgetful, and adventures often happened to him in consequence, which diverted
us amazingly.  Sometimes his horses were put to and kept waiting for him twelve or fifteen
hours at a time.  Upon one occasion in summer this happened at Vaucresson, whence he was going
to dine at Dampierre.  The coachman, first, then the postilion, grew tired of looking after
the horses, and left them.  Towards six o'clock at night the horses themselves were in their
turn worn out, bolted, and a din was heard which shook the house.  Everybody ran out, the coach
was found smashed, the large door shivered in pieces; the garden railings, which enclosed both
sides of the court, broken down; the gates in pieces; in short, damage was done that took a
long time to repair.  M. de Chevreuse, who had not been disturbed by this uproar even for an
instant, was quite astonished when he heard of it.  M. de Beauvilliers amused himself for a
long time by reproaching him with it, and by asking the expense.

Another adventure happened to him also at Vaucresson, and covered him with real confusion,
comical to see, every time it was mentioned.  About ten o'clock one morning a M. Sconin, who
had formerly been his steward, was announced.  "Let him take a turn in the garden," said M.
de Chevreuse, "and come back in half an hour."  He continued what he was doing, and completely
forgot his man.  Towards seven o'clock in the evening Sconin was again announced.  "In a moment,"
replied M. de Chevreuse, without disturbing himself.  A quarter of an hour afterwards he called
Sconin, and admitted him.  "Ah, my poor Sconin!" said he, "I must offer you a thousand excuses
for having caused you to lose your day."

"Not at all, Monseigneur," replied Sconin.  "As I have had the honour of knowing you for many
years, I comprehended this morning that the half- hour might be long, so I went to Paris, did
some business there, before and after dinner, and here I am again."

M. de Chevreuse was confounded.  Sconin did not keep silence, nor did the servants of the house.
M. de Beauvilliers made merry with the adventure when he heard of it, and accustomed as M.
de Chevreuse might be to his raillery, he could not bear to have this subject alluded to. 
I have selected two anecdotes out of a hundred others of the same kind, because they characterise
the man.

The liberality of M. du Maine which we have related on the occasion of the proclamation of
peace at Paris, and which was so popular, and so surprising when viewed in connection with
the disposition of the King, soon took new development.  The Jesuits, so skilful in detecting
the foibles of monarchs, and so clever in seizing hold of everything which can protect themselves
and answer their ends, showed to what extent they were masters of these arts.  A new and assuredly
a very original History of France, in three large folio volumes, appeared under the name of
Father Daniel, who lived at Paris in the establishment of the Jesuits. The paper and the printing
of the work were excellent; the style was admirable.  Never was French so clear, so pure, so
flowing, with such happy transitions; in a word, everything to charm and entice the reader;
admirable preface, magnificent promises, short, learned dissertations, a pomp, an authority
of the most seductive kind.  As for the history, there was much romance in the first race,
much in the second, and much. mistiness in the early times of the third.  In a word, all the
work evidently appeared composed in order to persuade people--under the simple air of a man
who set aside prejudices with discernment, and who only seeks the truth--that the majority
of the Kings of the first race, several of the second, some even of the third, were, bastards,
whom this defect did not exclude from the throne, or affect in any way.

I say bluntly here what was very delicately veiled in the work, and yet plainly seen.  The
effect of the book was great; its vogue such, that everybody, even women, asked for it.  The
King spoke of it to several of his Court, asked if they had read it; the most sagacious early
saw how much it was protected; it was the sole historical book the King and Madame de Maintenon
had ever spoken of.  Thus the work appeared at Versailles upon every table, nothing else was
talked about, marvellous eulogies were lavished upon it, which were sometimes comical in the
mouths of persons either very ignorant, or who, incapable of reading, pretended to read and
relish this book.

But this surprising success did not last.  People perceived that this history, which so cleverly
unravelled the remote part, gave but a meagre account of modern days, except in so far as their
military operations were concerned; of which even the minutest details were recorded.  Of negotiations,
cabals, Court intrigues, portraits, elevations, falls, and the main springs of events, there
was not a word in all the work, except briefly, dryly, and with precision as in the gazettes,
often more superficially.  Upon legal matters, public ceremonies, fetes of different times,
there was also silence at the best, the same laconism; and when we come to the affairs of Rome
and of the League, it is a pleasure to see the author glide over that dangerous ice on his
Jesuit skates!

In due time critics condemned the work which, after so much applause, was recognised as a very
wretched history, which had very industriously and very fraudulently answered the purpose for
which it was written.  It fell to the ground then; learned men wrote against it; but the principal
and delicate point of the work was scarcely touched in France with the pen, so great was the
danger.

Father Daniel obtained two thousand francs' pension for his history,-- a prodigious recompense,--with
a title of Historiographer of France.  He enjoyed the fruits of his falsehood, and laughed
at those who attacked him.  Foreign countries did not swallow quite so readily these stories
that declared such a number of our early kings bastards; but great care was taken not to let
France be infected by the disagreeable truths therein published.

CHAPTER LXIII

It is now time that I should say something of the infamous bull 'Unigenitus', which by the
unsurpassed audacity and scheming of Father Le Tellier and his friends was forced upon the
Pope and the world.

