I think a new world will arise out of the religious mists when we approach our Bible with the
idea that it is not only a book which was once spoken, but a book which is now speaking. The
prophets habitually said, "Thus saith the Lord." They meant their hearers to understand that
God's speaking is in the continuous present. We may use the past tense properly to indicate
that at a certain time a certain word of God was spoken, but a word of God once spoken continues
to be spoken, as a child once born continues to be alive, or a world once created continues
to exist. And those are but imperfect illustrations, for children die and worlds burn out,
but the Word of our God endureth forever.

If you would follow on to know the Lord, come at once to the open Bible expecting it to speak
to you. Do not come with the notion that it is a thing which you may push around at your convenience.
It is more than a thing, it is a voice, a word, the very Word of the living God.

Lord, teach me to listen. The times are noisy and my ears are weary with the thousand raucous
sounds which continuously assault them. Give me the spirit of the boy Samuel when he said to
Thee, "Speak, for thy servant heareth." Let me hear Thee speaking in my heart. Let me get used
to the sound of Thy Voice, that its tones may be familiar when the sounds of earth die away
and the only sound will be the music of Thy speaking Voice. Amen.

VII

The Gaze of the Soul

     Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith.--Heb. 12:2

Let us think of our intelligent plain man mentioned in chapter six coming for the first time
to the reading of the Scriptures. He approaches the Bible without any previous knowledge of
what it contains. He is wholly without prejudice; he has nothing to prove and nothing to defend.

Such a man will not have read long until his mind begins to observe certain truths standing
out from the page. They are the spiritual principles behind the record of God's dealings with
men, and woven into the writings of holy men as they "were moved by the Holy Ghost." As he
reads on he might want to number these truths as they become clear to him and make a brief
summary under each number. These summaries will be the tenets of his Biblical creed. Further
reading will not affect these points except to enlarge and strengthen them. Our man is finding
out what the Bible actually teaches.

High up on the list of things which the Bible teaches will be the doctrine of faith. The place
of weighty importance which the Bible gives to faith will be too plain for him to miss. He
will very likely conclude: Faith is all-important in the life of the soul. Without faith it
is impossible to please God. Faith will get me anything, take me anywhere in the Kingdom of
God, but without faith there can be no approach to God, no forgiveness, no deliverance, no
salvation, no communion, no spiritual life at all.

By the time our friend has reached the eleventh chapter of Hebrews the eloquent encomium which
is there pronounced upon faith will not seem strange to him. He will have read Paul's powerful
defense of faith in his Roman and Galatian epistles. Later if he goes on to study church history
he will understand the amazing power in the teachings of the Reformers as they showed the central
place of faith in the Christian religion.

Now if faith is so vitally important, if it is an indispensable must in our pursuit of God,
it is perfectly natural that we should be deeply concerned over whether or not we possess this
most precious gift. And our minds being what they are, it is inevitable that sooner or later
we should get around to inquiring after the nature of faith. What is faith? would lie close
to the question, Do I have faith? and would demand an answer if it were anywhere to be found.

Almost all who preach or write on the subject of faith have much the same things to say concerning
it. They tell us that it is believing a promise, that it is taking God at His word, that it
is reckoning the Bible to be true and stepping out upon it. The rest of the book or sermon
is usually taken up with stories of persons who have had their prayers answered as a result
of their faith. These answers are mostly direct gifts of a practical and temporal nature such
as health, money, physical protection or success in business. Or if the teacher is of a philosophic
turn of mind he may take another course and lose us in a welter of metaphysics or snow us under
with psychological jargon as he defines and re-defines, paring the slender hair of faith thinner
and thinner till it disappears in gossamer shavings at last. When he is finished we get up
disappointed and go out "by that same door where in we went." Surely there must be something
better than this.

In the Scriptures there is practically no effort made to define faith. Outside of a brief fourteen-word
definition in Hebrews 11:1, I know of no Biblical definition, and even there faith is defined
functionally, not philosophically; that is, it is a statement of what faith is in operation,
not what it is in essence. It assumes the presence of faith and shows what it results in, rather
than what it is. We will be wise to go just that far and attempt to go no further. We are told
from whence it comes and by what means: "Faith is a gift of God," and "Faith cometh by hearing,
and hearing by the word of God." This much is clear, and, to paraphrase Thomas à Kempis, "I
had rather exercise faith than know the definition thereof."

From here on, when the words "faith is" or their equivalent occur in this chapter I ask that
they be understood to refer to what faith is in operation as exercised by a believing man.
Right here we drop the notion of definition and think about faith as it may be experienced
in action. The complexion of our thoughts will be practical, not theoretical.

In a dramatic story in the Book of Numbers faith is seen in action. Israel became discouraged
and spoke against God, and the Lord sent fiery serpents among them. "And they bit the people;
and much people of Israel died." Then Moses sought the Lord for them and He heard and gave
them a remedy against the bite of the serpents. He commanded Moses to make a serpent of brass
and put it upon a pole in sight of all the people, "and it shall come to pass, that everyone
that is bitten, when he looketh upon it, shall live."

In the New Testament this important bit of history is interpreted for us by no less an authority
than our Lord Jesus Christ Himself. He is explaining to His hearers how they may be saved.
He tells them that it is by believing. Then to make it clear He refers to this incident in
the Book of Numbers. (John 3:14-15).

Our plain man in reading this would make an important discovery. He would notice that "look"
and "believe" were synonymous terms. "Looking" on the Old Testament serpent is identical with
"believing" on the New Testament Christ. That is, the looking and the believing are the same
thing. And he would understand that while Israel looked with their external eyes, believing
is done with the heart. I think he would conclude that faith is the gaze of a soul upon a saving
God.

When he had seen this he would remember passages he had read before, and their meaning would
come flooding over him. "They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were not
ashamed" (Psa. 34:5). "Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens.
Here the man seeking mercy looks straight at the God of mercy and never takes his eyes away
from Him till mercy is granted. And our Lord Himself looked always at God. "Looking up to heaven,
he blessed, and brake, and gave the bread to his disciples" (Matt. 14:19). Indeed Jesus taught
that He wrought His works by always keeping His inward eyes upon His Father. His power lay
in His continuous look at God (John 5:19-21).

In full accord with the few texts we have quoted is the whole tenor of the inspired Word. It
is summed up for us in the Hebrew epistle when we are instructed to run life's race "looking
unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith." From all this we learn that faith is not
a once-done act, but a continuous gaze of the heart at the Triune God.

Believing, then, is directing the heart's attention to Jesus. It is lifting the mind to "behold
the Lamb of God," and never ceasing that beholding for the rest of our lives. At first this
may be difficult, but it becomes easier as we look steadily at His wondrous Person, quietly
and without strain. Distractions may hinder, but once the heart is committed to Him, after
each brief excursion away from Him the attention will return again and rest upon Him like a
wandering bird coming back to its window.

I would emphasize this one committal, this one great volitional act which establishes the heart's
intention to gaze forever upon Jesus. God takes this intention for our choice and makes what
allowances He must for the thousand distractions which beset us in this evil world. He knows
that we have set the direction of our hearts toward Jesus, and we can know it too, and comfort
ourselves with the knowledge that a habit of soul is forming which will become after a while
a sort of spiritual reflex requiring no more conscious effort on our part.

Faith is the least self-regarding of the virtues. It is by its very nature scarcely conscious
of its own existence. Like the eye which sees everything in front of it and never sees itself,
faith is occupied with the Object upon which it rests and pays no attention to itself at all.
While we are looking at God we do not see ourselves--blessed riddance. The man who has struggled
to purify himself and has had nothing but repeated failures will experience real relief when
he stops tinkering with his soul and looks away to the perfect One. While he looks at Christ
the very things he has so long been trying to do will be getting done within him. It will be
God working in him to will and to do.

Faith is not in itself a meritorious act; the merit is in the One toward Whom it is directed.
Faith is a redirecting of our sight, a getting out of the focus of our own vision and getting
God into focus. Sin has twisted our vision inward and made it self-regarding. Unbelief has
put self where God should be, and is perilously close to the sin of Lucifer who said, "I will
set my throne above the throne of God." Faith looks out instead of in and the whole life falls
into line.

All this may seem too simple. But we have no apology to make. To those who would seek to climb
into heaven after help or descend into hell God says, "The word is nigh thee, even the word
of faith." The word induces us to lift up our eyes unto the Lord and the blessed work of faith
begins.

When we lift our inward eyes to gaze upon God we are sure to meet friendly eyes gazing back
at us, for it is written that the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout all the earth.
The sweet language of experience is "Thou God seest me." When the eyes of the soul looking
out meet the eyes of God looking in, heaven has begun right here on this earth.

"When all my endeavour is turned toward Thee because all Thy endeavour is turned toward me;
when I look unto Thee alone with all my attention, nor ever turn aside the eyes of my mind,
because Thou dost enfold me with Thy constant regard; when I direct my love toward Thee alone
because Thou, who art Love's self hast turned Thee toward me alone. And what, Lord, is my life,
save that embrace wherein Thy delightsome sweetness doth so lovingly enfold me?"[1] So wrote
Nicholas of Cusa four hundred years ago.

I should like to say more about this old man of God. He is not much known today anywhere among
Christian believers, and among current Fundamentalists he is known not at all. I feel that
we could gain much from a little acquaintance with men of his spiritual flavor and the school
of Christian thought which they represent. Christian literature, to be accepted and approved
by the evangelical leaders of our times, must follow very closely the same train of thought,
a kind of "party line" from which it is scarcely safe to depart. A half-century of this in
America has made us smug and content. We imitate each other with slavish devotion and our most
strenuous efforts are put forth to try to say the same thing that everyone around us is saying--and
yet to find an excuse for saying it, some little safe variation on the approved theme or, if
no more, at least a new illustration.

Nicholas was a true follower of Christ, a lover of the Lord, radiant and shining in his devotion
to the Person of Jesus. His theology was orthodox, but fragrant and sweet as everything about
Jesus might properly be expected to be. His conception of eternal life, for instance, is beautiful
in itself and, if I mistake not, is nearer in spirit to John 17:3 than that which is current
among us today. Life eternal, says Nicholas, is "nought other than that blessed regard wherewith
Thou never ceasest to behold me, yea, even the secret places of my soul. With Thee, to behold
is to give life; 'tis unceasingly to impart sweetest love of Thee; 'tis to inflame me to love
of Thee by love's imparting, and to feed me by inflaming, and by feeding to kindle my yearning,
and by kindling to make me drink of the dew of gladness, and by drinking to infuse in me a
fountain of life, and by infusing to make it increase and endure."[2]

Now, if faith is the gaze of the heart at God, and if this gaze is but the raising of the inward
eyes to meet the all-seeing eyes of God, then it follows that it is one of the easiest things
possible to do. It would be like God to make the most vital thing easy and place it within
the range of possibility for the weakest and poorest of us.

Several conclusions may fairly be drawn from all this. The simplicity of it, for instance.
Since believing is looking, it can be done without special equipment or religious paraphernalia.
God has seen to it that the one life-and-death essential can never be subject to the caprice
of accident. Equipment can break down or get lost, water can leak away, records can be destroyed
by fire, the minister can be delayed or the church burn down. All these are external to the
soul and are subject to accident or mechanical failure: but looking is of the heart and can
be done successfully by any man standing up or kneeling down or lying in his last agony a thousand
miles from any church.

Since believing is looking it can be done any time. No season is superior to another season
for this sweetest of all acts. God never made salvation depend upon new moons nor holy days
or sabbaths. A man is not nearer to Christ on Easter Sunday than he is, say, on Saturday, August
3, or Monday, October 4. As long as Christ sits on the mediatorial throne every day is a good
day and all days are days of salvation.

Neither does place matter in this blessed work of believing God. Lift your heart and let it
rest upon Jesus and you are instantly in a sanctuary though it be a Pullman berth or a factory
or a kitchen. You can see God from anywhere if your mind is set to love and obey Him.

Now, someone may ask, "Is not this of which you speak for special persons such as monks or
ministers who have by the nature of their calling more time to devote to quiet meditation?
I am a busy worker and have little time to spend alone." I am happy to say that the life I
describe is for everyone of God's children regardless of calling. It is, in fact, happily practiced
every day by many hard working persons and is beyond the reach of none.

Many have found the secret of which I speak and, without giving much thought to what is going
on within them, constantly practice this habit of inwardly gazing upon God. They know that
something inside their hearts sees God. Even when they are compelled to withdraw their conscious
attention in order to engage in earthly affairs there is within them a secret communion always
going on. Let their attention but be released for a moment from necessary business and it flies
at once to God again. This has been the testimony of many Christians, so many that even as
I state it thus I have a feeling that I am quoting, though from whom or from how many I cannot
possibly know.

I do not want to leave the impression that the ordinary means of grace have no value. They
most assuredly have. Private prayer should be practiced by every Christian. Long periods of
Bible meditation will purify our gaze and direct it; church attendance will enlarge our outlook
and increase our love for others. Service and work and activity; all are good and should be
engaged in by every Christian. But at the bottom of all these things, giving meaning to them,
will be the inward habit of beholding God. A new set of eyes (so to speak) will develop within
us enabling us to be looking at God while our outward eyes are seeing the scenes of this passing
world.

Someone may fear that we are magnifying private religion out of all proportion, that the "us"
of the New Testament is being displaced by a selfish "I." Has it ever occurred to you that
one hundred pianos all tuned to the same fork are automatically tuned to each other? They are
of one accord by being tuned, not to each other, but to another standard to which each one
must individually bow. So one hundred worshippers met together, each one looking away to Christ,
are in heart nearer to each other than they could possibly be were they to become "unity" conscious
and turn their eyes away from God to strive for closer fellowship. Social religion is perfected
when private religion is purified. The body becomes stronger as its members become healthier.
The whole Church of God gains when the members that compose it begin to seek a better and a
higher life.

All the foregoing presupposes true repentance and a full committal of the life to God. It is
hardly necessary to mention this, for only persons who have made such a committal will have
read this far.

When the habit of inwardly gazing Godward becomes fixed within us we shall be ushered onto
a new level of spiritual life more in keeping with the promises of God and the mood of the
New Testament. The Triune God will be our dwelling place even while our feet walk the low road
of simple duty here among men. We will have found life's summum bonum indeed. "There is the
source of all delights that can be desired; not only can nought better be thought out by men
and angels, but nought better can exist in mode of being! For it is the absolute maximum of
every rational desire, than which a greater cannot be."[3]

O Lord, I have heard a good word inviting me to look away to Thee and be satisfied. My heart
longs to respond, but sin has clouded my vision till I see Thee but dimly. Be pleased to cleanse
me in Thine own precious blood, and make me inwardly pure, so that I may with unveiled eyes
gaze upon Thee all the days of my earthly pilgrimage. Then shall I be prepared to behold Thee
in full splendor in the day when Thou shalt appear to be glorified in Thy saints and admired
in all them that believe. Amen.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Nicholas of Cusa, The Vision of God, E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc., New York, 1928. This and
the following quotations used by kind permission of the publishers.

[2] The Vision of God

[3] The Vision of God

VIII

Restoring the Creator-creature Relation

     Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory be above
     all the earth.--Psa. 57:5

It is a truism to say that order in nature depends upon right relationships; to achieve harmony
each thing must be in its proper position relative to each other thing. In human life it is
not otherwise.

I have hinted before in these chapters that the cause of all our human miseries is a radical
moral dislocation, an upset in our relation to God and to each other. For whatever else the
Fall may have been, it was most certainly a sharp change in man's relation to his Creator.
He adopted toward God an altered attitude, and by so doing destroyed the proper Creator-creature
relation in which, unknown to him, his true happiness lay. Essentially salvation is the restoration
of a right relation between man and his Creator, a bringing back to normal of the Creator-creature
relation.

A satisfactory spiritual life will begin with a complete change in relation between God and
the sinner; not a judicial change merely, but a conscious and experienced change affecting
the sinner's whole nature. The atonement in Jesus' blood makes such a change judicially possible
and the working of the Holy Spirit makes it emotionally satisfying. The story of the prodigal
son perfectly illustrates this latter phase. He had brought a world of trouble upon himself
by forsaking the position which he had properly held as son of his father. At bottom his restoration
was nothing more than a re-establishing of the father-son relation which had existed from his
birth and had been altered temporarily by his act of sinful rebellion. This story overlooks
the legal aspects of redemption, but it makes beautifully clear the experiential aspects of
salvation.

In determining relationships we must begin somewhere. There must be somewhere a fixed center
against which everything else is measured, where the law of relativity does not enter and we
can say "IS" and make no allowances. Such a center is God. When God would make His Name known
to mankind He could find no better word than "I AM." When He speaks in the first person He
says, "I AM"; when we speak of Him we say, "He is"; when we speak to Him we say, "Thou art."
Everyone and everything else measures from that fixed point. "I am that I am," says God, "I
change not."

As the sailor locates his position on the sea by "shooting" the sun, so we may get our moral
bearings by looking at God. We must begin with God. We are right when and only when we stand
in a right position relative to God, and we are wrong so far and so long as we stand in any
other position.

Much of our difficulty as seeking Christians stems from our unwillingness to take God as He
is and adjust our lives accordingly. We insist upon trying to modify Him and to bring Him nearer
to our own image. The flesh whimpers against the rigor of God's inexorable sentence and begs
like Agag for a little mercy, a little indulgence of its carnal ways. It is no use. We can
get a right start only by accepting God as He is and learning to love Him for what He is. As
we go on to know Him better we shall find it a source of unspeakable joy that God is just what
He is. Some of the most rapturous moments we know will be those we spend in reverent admiration
of the Godhead. In those holy moments the very thought of change in Him will be too painful
to endure.

So let us begin with God. Back of all, above all, before all is God; first in sequential order,
above in rank and station, exalted in dignity and honor. As the self-existent One He gave being
to all things, and all things exist out of Him and for Him.

Every soul belongs to God and exists by His pleasure. God being Who and What He is, and we
being who and what we are, the only thinkable relation between us is one of full lordship on
His part and complete submission on ours. We owe Him every honor that it is in our power to
give Him. Our everlasting grief lies in giving Him anything less.

The pursuit of God will embrace the labor of bringing our total personality into conformity
to His. And this not judicially, but actually. I do not here refer to the act of justification
by faith in Christ. I speak of a voluntary exalting of God to His proper station over us and
a willing surrender of our whole being to the place of worshipful submission which the Creator-creature
circumstance makes proper.

The moment we make up our minds that we are going on with this determination to exalt God over
all we step out of the world's parade. We shall find ourselves out of adjustment to the ways
of the world, and increasingly so as we make progress in the holy way. We shall acquire a new
viewpoint; a new and different psychology will be formed within us; a new power will begin
to surprise us by its upsurgings and its outgoings.

Our break with the world will be the direct outcome of our changed relation to God. For the
world of fallen men does not honor God. Millions call themselves by His Name, it is true, and
pay some token respect to Him, but a simple test will show how little He is really honored
among them. Let the average man be put to the proof on the question of who is above, and his
true position will be exposed. Let him be forced into making a choice between God and money,
between God and men, between God and personal ambition, God and self, God and human love, and
God will take second place every time. Those other things will be exalted above. However the
man may protest, the proof is in the choices he makes day after day throughout his life.

"Be thou exalted" is the language of victorious spiritual experience. It is a little key to
unlock the door to great treasures of grace. It is central in the life of God in the soul.
Let the seeking man reach a place where life and lips join to say continually "Be thou exalted,"
and a thousand minor problems will be solved at once. His Christian life ceases to be the complicated
thing it had been before and becomes the very essence of simplicity. By the exercise of his
will he has set his course, and on that course he will stay as if guided by an automatic pilot.
If blown off course for a moment by some adverse wind he will surely return again as by a secret
bent of the soul. The hidden motions of the Spirit are working in his favor, and "the stars
in their courses" fight for him. He has met his life problem at its center, and everything
else must follow along.

Let no one imagine that he will lose anything of human dignity by this voluntary sell-out of
his all to his God. He does not by this degrade himself as a man; rather he finds his right
place of high honor as one made in the image of his Creator. His deep disgrace lay in his moral
derangement, his unnatural usurpation of the place of God. His honor will be proved by restoring
again that stolen throne. In exalting God over all he finds his own highest honor upheld.

Anyone who might feel reluctant to surrender his will to the will of another should remember
Jesus' words, "Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin." We must of necessity be servant
to someone, either to God or to sin. The sinner prides himself on his independence, completely
overlooking the fact that he is the weak slave of the sins that rule his members. The man who
surrenders to Christ exchanges a cruel slave driver for a kind and gentle Master whose yoke
is easy and whose burden is light.

Made as we were in the image of God we scarcely find it strange to take again our God as our
All. God was our original habitat and our hearts cannot but feel at home when they enter again
that ancient and beautiful abode.

I hope it is clear that there is a logic behind God's claim to pre-eminence. That place is
His by every right in earth or heaven. While we take to ourselves the place that is His the
whole course of our lives is out of joint. Nothing will or can restore order till our hearts
make the great decision: God shall be exalted above.

"Them that honour me I will honour," said God once to a priest of Israel, and that ancient
law of the Kingdom stands today unchanged by the passing of time or the changes of dispensation.
The whole Bible and every page of history proclaim the perpetuation of that law. "If any man
serve me, him will my Father honour," said our Lord Jesus, tying in the old with the new and
revealing the essential unity of His ways with men.

Sometimes the best way to see a thing is to look at its opposite. Eli and his sons are placed
in the priesthood with the stipulation that they honor God in their lives and ministrations.
This they fail to do, and God sends Samuel to announce the consequences. Unknown to Eli this
law of reciprocal honor has been all the while secretly working, and now the time has come
for judgment to fall. Hophni and Phineas, the degenerate priests, fall in battle, the wife
of Hophni dies in childbirth, Israel flees before her enemies, the ark of God is captured by
the Philistines and the old man Eli falls backward and dies of a broken neck. Thus stark utter
tragedy followed upon Eli's failure to honor God.

Now set over against this almost any Bible character who honestly tried to glorify God in his
earthly walk. See how God winked at weaknesses and overlooked failures as He poured upon His
servants grace and blessing untold. Let it be Abraham, Jacob, David, Daniel, Elijah or whom
you will; honor followed honor as harvest the seed. The man of God set his heart to exalt God
above all; God accepted his intention as fact and acted accordingly. Not perfection, but holy
intention made the difference.

In our Lord Jesus Christ this law was seen in simple perfection. In His lowly manhood He humbled
Himself and gladly gave all glory to His Father in heaven. He sought not His own honor, but
the honor of God who sent Him. "If I honour myself," He said on one occasion, "my honour is
nothing; it is my Father that honoureth me." So far had the proud Pharisees departed from this
law that they could not understand one who honored God at his own expense. "I honour my Father,"
said Jesus to them, "and ye do dishonour me."

Another saying of Jesus, and a most disturbing one, was put in the form of a question, "How
can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that cometh from
God alone?" If I understand this correctly Christ taught here the alarming doctrine that the
desire for honor among men made belief impossible. Is this sin at the root of religious unbelief?
Could it be that those "intellectual difficulties" which men blame for their inability to believe
are but smoke screens to conceal the real cause that lies behind them? Was it this greedy desire
for honor from man that made men into Pharisees and Pharisees into Deicides? Is this the secret
back of religious self-righteousness and empty worship? I believe it may be. The whole course
of the life is upset by failure to put God where He belongs. We exalt ourselves instead of
God and the curse follows.

In our desire after God let us keep always in mind that God also hath desire, and His desire
is toward the sons of men, and more particularly toward those sons of men who will make the
once-for-all decision to exalt Him over all. Such as these are precious to God above all treasures
of earth or sea. In them God finds a theater where He can display His exceeding kindness toward
us in Christ Jesus. With them God can walk unhindered, toward them He can act like the God He is.

