Intrusting his own camp to the militia of Nuremberg, on the fifty-eighth day of his encampment,
(the festival of St.  Bartholomew,) he advanced in full order of battle, and passing the Rednitz
at Furth, easily drove the enemy's outposts before him.  The main army of the Imperialists
was posted on the steep heights between the Biber and the Rednitz, called the Old Fortress
and Altenberg; while the camp itself, commanded by these eminences, spread out immeasurably
along the plain.  On these heights, the whole of the artillery was placed.  Deep trenches surrounded
inaccessible redoubts, while thick barricadoes, with pointed palisades, defended the approaches
to the heights, from the summits of which, Wallenstein calmly and securely discharged the lightnings
of his artillery from amid the dark thunder-clouds of smoke.  A destructive fire of musketry
was maintained behind the breastworks, and a hundred pieces of cannon threatened the desperate
assailant with certain destruction.  Against this dangerous post Gustavus now directed his
attack; five hundred musketeers, supported by a few infantry, (for a greater number could not
act in the narrow space,) enjoyed the unenvied privilege of first throwing themselves into
the open jaws of death.  The assault was furious, the resistance obstinate.  Exposed to the
whole fire of the enemy's artillery, and infuriate by the prospect of inevitable death, these
determined warriors rushed forward to storm the heights; which, in an instant, converted into
a flaming volcano, discharged on them a shower of shot.  At the same moment, the heavy cavalry
rushed forward into the openings which the artillery had made in the close ranks of the assailants,
and divided them; till the intrepid band, conquered by the strength of nature and of man, took
to flight, leaving a hundred dead upon the field.  To Germans had Gustavus yielded this post
of honour.  Exasperated at their retreat, he now led on his Finlanders to the attack, thinking,
by their northern courage, to shame the cowardice of the Germans.  But they, also, after a
similar hot reception, yielded to the superiority of the enemy; and a third regiment succeeded
them to experience the same fate.  This was replaced by a fourth, a fifth, and a sixth; so
that, during a ten hours' action, every regiment was brought to the attack to retire with bloody
loss from the contest.  A thousand mangled bodies covered the field; yet Gustavus undauntedly
maintained the attack, and Wallenstein held his position unshaken.

In the mean time, a sharp contest had taken place between the imperial cavalry and the left
wing of the Swedes, which was posted in a thicket on the Rednitz, with varying success, but
with equal intrepidity and loss on both sides.  The Duke of Friedland and Prince Bernard of
Weimar had each a horse shot under them; the king himself had the sole of his boot carried
off by a cannon ball.  The combat was maintained with undiminished obstinacy, till the approach
of night separated the combatants.  But the Swedes had advanced too far to retreat without
hazard.  While the king was seeking an officer to convey to the regiments the order to retreat,
he met Colonel Hepburn, a brave Scotchman, whose native courage alone had drawn him from the
camp to share in the dangers of the day.  Offended with the king for having not long before
preferred a younger officer for some post of danger, he had rashly vowed never again to draw
his sword for the king.  To him Gustavus now addressed himself, praising his courage, and requesting
him to order the regiments to retreat.  "Sire," replied the brave soldier, "it is the only
service I cannot refuse to your Majesty; for it is a hazardous one,"--and immediately hastened
to carry the command.  One of the heights above the old fortress had, in the heat of the action,
been carried by the Duke of Weimar.  It commanded the hills and the whole camp.  But the heavy
rain which fell during the night, rendered it impossible to draw up the cannon; and this post,
which had been gained with so much bloodshed, was also voluntarily abandoned.  Diffident of
fortune, which forsook him on this decisive day, the king did not venture the following morning
to renew the attack with his exhausted troops; and vanquished for the first time, even because
he was not victor, he led back his troops over the Rednitz.  Two thousand dead which he left
behind him on the field, testified to the extent of his loss; and the Duke of Friedland remained
unconquered within his lines.

For fourteen days after this action, the two armies still continued in front of each other,
each in the hope that the other would be the first to give way.  Every day reduced their provisions,
and as scarcity became greater, the excesses of the soldiers rendered furious, exercised the
wildest outrages on the peasantry.  The increasing distress broke up all discipline and order
in the Swedish camp; and the German regiments, in particular, distinguished themselves for
the ravages they practised indiscriminately on friend and foe.  The weak hand of a single individual
could not check excesses, encouraged by the silence, if not the actual example, of the inferior
officers.  These shameful breaches of discipline, on the maintenance of which he had hitherto
justly prided himself, severely pained the king; and the vehemence with which he reproached
the German officers for their negligence, bespoke the liveliness of his emotion.  "It is you
yourselves, Germans," said he, "that rob your native country, and ruin your own confederates
in the faith.  As God is my judge, I abhor you, I loathe you; my heart sinks within me whenever
I look upon you.  Ye break my orders; ye are the cause that the world curses me, that the tears
of poverty follow me, that complaints ring in my ear--'The king, our friend, does us more harm
than even our worst enemies.'  On your account I have stripped my own kingdom of its treasures,
and spent upon you more than 40 tons of gold; --[A ton of gold in Sweden amounts to 100,000
rix dollars.]--while from your German empire I have not received the least aid.  I gave you
a share of all that God had given to me; and had ye regarded my orders, I would have gladly
shared with you all my future acquisitions.  Your want of discipline convinces me of your evil
intentions, whatever cause I might otherwise have to applaud your bravery."

Nuremberg had exerted itself, almost beyond its power, to subsist for eleven weeks the vast
crowd which was compressed within its boundaries; but its means were at length exhausted, and
the king's more numerous party was obliged to determine on a retreat.  By the casualties of
war and sickness, Nuremberg had lost more than 10,000 of its inhabitants, and Gustavus Adolphus
nearly 20,000 of his soldiers.  The fields around the city were trampled down, the villages
lay in ashes, the plundered peasantry lay faint and dying on the highways; foul odours infected
the air, and bad food, the exhalations from so dense a population, and so many putrifying carcasses,
together with the heat of the dog-days, produced a desolating pestilence which raged among
men and beasts, and long after the retreat of both armies, continued to load the country with
misery and distress.  Affected by the general distress, and despairing of conquering the steady
determination of the Duke of Friedland, the king broke up his camp on the 8th September, leaving
in Nuremberg a sufficient garrison.  He advanced in full order of battle before the enemy,
who remained motionless, and did not attempt in the least to harass his retreat.  His route
lay by the Aisch and Windsheim towards Neustadt, where he halted five days to refresh his troops,
and also to be near to Nuremberg, in case the enemy should make an attempt upon the town. 
But Wallenstein, as exhausted as himself, had only awaited the retreat of the Swedes to commence
his own.  Five days afterwards, he broke up his camp at Zirndorf, and set it on fire.  A hundred
columns of smoke, rising from all the burning villages in the neighbourhood, announced his
retreat, and showed the city the fate it had escaped.  His march, which was directed on Forchheim,
was marked by the most frightful ravages; but he was too far advanced to be overtaken by the
king.  The latter now divided his army, which the exhausted country was unable to support,
and leaving one division to protect Franconia, with the other he prosecuted in person his conquests
in Bavaria.

In the mean time, the imperial Bavarian army had marched into the Bishopric of Bamberg, where
the Duke of Friedland a second time mustered his troops.  He found this force, which so lately
had amounted to 60,000 men, diminished by the sword, desertion, and disease, to about 24,000,
and of these a fourth were Bavarians.  Thus had the encampments before Nuremberg weakened both
parties more than two great battles would have done, apparently without advancing the termination
of the war, or satisfying, by any decisive result, the expectations of Europe.  The king's
conquests in Bavaria, were, it is true, checked for a time by this diversion before Nuremberg,
and Austria itself secured against the danger of immediate invasion; but by the retreat of
the king from that city, he was again left at full liberty to make Bavaria the seat of war.
Indifferent towards the fate of that country, and weary of the restraint which his union with
the Elector imposed upon him, the Duke of Friedland eagerly seized the opportunity of separating
from this burdensome associate, and prosecuting, with renewed earnestness, his favourite plans.
Still adhering to his purpose of detaching Saxony from its Swedish alliance, he selected that
country for his winter quarters, hoping by his destructive presence to force the Elector the
more readily into his views.

No conjuncture could be more favourable for his designs.  The Saxons had invaded Silesia, where,
reinforced by troops from Brandenburgh and Sweden, they had gained several advantages over
the Emperor's troops. Silesia would be saved by a diversion against the Elector in his own
territories, and the attempt was the more easy, as Saxony, left undefended during the war in
Silesia, lay open on every side to attack. The pretext of rescuing from the enemy an hereditary
dominion of Austria, would silence the remonstrances of the Elector of Bavaria, and, under
the mask of a patriotic zeal for the Emperor's interests, Maximilian might be sacrificed without
much difficulty.  By giving up the rich country of Bavaria to the Swedes, he hoped to be left
unmolested by them in his enterprise against Saxony, while the increasing coldness between
Gustavus and the Saxon Court, gave him little reason to apprehend any extraordinary zeal for
the deliverance of John George.  Thus a second time abandoned by his artful protector, the
Elector separated from Wallenstein at Bamberg, to protect his defenceless territory with the
small remains of his troops, while the imperial army, under Wallenstein, directed its march
through Bayreuth and Coburg towards the Thuringian Forest.

An imperial general, Holk, had previously been sent into Vogtland with 6,000 men, to waste
this defenceless province with fire and sword, he was soon followed by Gallas, another of the
Duke's generals, and an equally faithful instrument of his inhuman orders.  Finally, Pappenheim,
too, was recalled from Lower Saxony, to reinforce the diminished army of the duke, and to complete
the miseries of the devoted country.  Ruined churches, villages in ashes, harvests wilfully
destroyed, families plundered, and murdered peasants, marked the progress of these barbarians,
under whose scourge the whole of Thuringia, Vogtland, and Meissen, lay defenceless.  Yet this
was but the prelude to greater sufferings, with which Wallenstein himself, at the head of the
main army, threatened Saxony.  After having left behind him fearful monuments of his fury,
in his march through Franconia and Thuringia, he arrived with his whole army in the Circle
of Leipzig, and compelled the city, after a short resistance, to surrender.  His design was
to push on to Dresden, and by the conquest of the whole country, to prescribe laws to the Elector.
He had already approached the Mulda, threatening to overpower the Saxon army which had advanced
as far as Torgau to meet him, when the King of Sweden's arrival at Erfurt gave an unexpected
check to his operations.  Placed between the Saxon and Swedish armies, which were likely to
be farther reinforced by the troops of George, Duke of Luneburg, from Lower Saxony, he hastily
retired upon Meresberg, to form a junction there with Count Pappenheim, and to repel the further
advance of the Swedes.

Gustavus Adolphus had witnessed, with great uneasiness, the arts employed by Spain and Austria
to detach his allies from him.  The more important his alliance with Saxony, the more anxiety
the inconstant temper of John George caused him.  Between himself and the Elector, a sincere
friendship could never subsist.  A prince, proud of his political importance, and accustomed
to consider himself as the head of his party, could not see without annoyance the interference
of a foreign power in the affairs of the Empire; and nothing, but the extreme danger of his
dominions, could overcome the aversion with which he had long witnessed the progress of this
unwelcome intruder.  The increasing influence of the king in Germany, his authority with the
Protestant states, the unambiguous proofs which he gave of his ambitious views, which were
of a character calculated to excite the jealousies of all the states of the Empire, awakened
in the Elector's breast a thousand anxieties, which the imperial emissaries did not fail skilfully
to keep alive and cherish.  Every arbitrary step on the part of the King, every demand, however
reasonable, which he addressed to the princes of the Empire, was followed by bitter complaints
from the Elector, which seemed to announce an approaching rupture.  Even the generals of the
two powers, whenever they were called upon to act in common, manifested the same jealousy as
divided their leaders.  John George's natural aversion to war, and a lingering attachment to
Austria, favoured the efforts of Arnheim; who, maintaining a constant correspondence with Wallenstein,
laboured incessantly to effect a private treaty between his master and the Emperor; and if
his representations were long disregarded, still the event proved that they were not altogether
without effect.

Gustavus Adolphus, naturally apprehensive of the consequences which the defection of so powerful
an ally would produce on his future prospects in Germany, spared no pains to avert so pernicious
an event; and his remonstrances had hitherto had some effect upon the Elector.  But the formidable
power with which the Emperor seconded his seductive proposals, and the miseries which, in the
case of hesitation, he threatened to accumulate upon Saxony, might at length overcome the resolution
of the Elector, should he be left exposed to the vengeance of his enemies; while an indifference
to the fate of so powerful a confederate, would irreparably destroy the confidence of the other
allies in their protector.  This consideration induced the king a second time to yield to the
pressing entreaties of the Elector, and to sacrifice his own brilliant prospects to the safety
of this ally.  He had already resolved upon a second attack on Ingoldstadt; and the weakness
of the Elector of Bavaria gave him hopes of soon forcing this exhausted enemy to accede to
a neutrality.  An insurrection of the peasantry in Upper Austria, opened to him a passage into
that country, and the capital might be in his possession, before Wallenstein could have time
to advance to its defence.  All these views he now gave up for the sake of an ally, who, neither
by his services nor his fidelity, was worthy of the sacrifice; who, on the pressing occasions
of common good, had steadily adhered to his own selfish projects; and who was important, not
for the services he was expected to render, but merely for the injuries he had it in his power
to inflict.  Is it possible, then, to refrain from indignation, when we know that, in this
expedition, undertaken for the benefit of such an ally, the great king was destined to terminate
his career?

Rapidly assembling his troops in Franconia, he followed the route of Wallenstein through Thuringia.
Duke Bernard of Weimar, who had been despatched to act against Pappenheim, joined the king
at Armstadt, who now saw himself at the head of 20,000 veterans.  At Erfurt he took leave of
his queen, who was not to behold him, save in his coffin, at Weissenfels.  Their anxious adieus
seemed to forbode an eternal separation.

He reached Naumburg on the 1st November, 1632, before the corps, which the Duke of Friedland
had despatched for that purpose, could make itself master of that place.  The inhabitants of
the surrounding country flocked in crowds to look upon the hero, the avenger, the great king,
who, a year before, had first appeared in that quarter, like a guardian angel.  Shouts of joy
everywhere attended his progress; the people knelt before him, and struggled for the honour
of touching the sheath of his sword, or the hem of his garment.  The modest hero disliked this
innocent tribute which a sincerely grateful and admiring multitude paid him.  "Is it not,"
said he, "as if this people would make a God of me? Our affairs prosper, indeed; but I fear
the vengeance of Heaven will punish me for this presumption, and soon enough reveal to this
deluded multitude my human weakness and mortality!" How amiable does Gustavus appear before
us at this moment, when about to leave us for ever!  Even in the plenitude of success, he honours
an avenging Nemesis, declines that homage which is due only to the Immortal, and strengthens
his title to our tears, the nearer the moment approaches that is to call them forth!

In the mean time, the Duke of Friedland had determined to advance to meet the king, as far
as Weissenfels, and even at the hazard of a battle, to secure his winter-quarters in Saxony.
His inactivity before Nuremberg had occasioned a suspicion that he was unwilling to measure
his powers with those of the Hero of the North, and his hard-earned reputation would be at
stake, if, a second time, he should decline a battle.  His present superiority in numbers,
though much less than what it was at the beginning of the siege of Nuremberg, was still enough
to give him hopes of victory, if he could compel the king to give battle before his junction
with the Saxons.  But his present reliance was not so much in his numerical superiority, as
in the predictions of his astrologer Seni, who had read in the stars that the good fortune
of the Swedish monarch would decline in the month of November.  Besides, between Naumburg and
Weissenfels there was also a range of narrow defiles, formed by a long mountainous ridge, and
the river Saal, which ran at their foot, along which the Swedes could not advance without difficulty,
and which might, with the assistance of a few troops, be rendered almost impassable.  If attacked
there, the king would have no choice but either to penetrate with great danger through the
defiles, or commence a laborious retreat through Thuringia, and to expose the greater part
of his army to a march through a desert country, deficient in every necessary for their support.
But the rapidity with which Gustavus Adolphus had taken possession of Naumburg, disappointed
this plan, and it was now Wallenstein himself who awaited the attack.

But in this expectation he was disappointed; for the king, instead of advancing to meet him
at Weissenfels, made preparations for entrenching himself near Naumburg, with the intention
of awaiting there the reinforcements which the Duke of Lunenburg was bringing up.  Undecided
whether to advance against the king through the narrow passes between Weissenfels and Naumburg,
or to remain inactive in his camp, he called a council of war, in order to have the opinion
of his most experienced generals.  None of these thought it prudent to attack the king in his
advantageous position.  On the other hand, the preparations which the latter made to fortify
his camp, plainly showed that it was not his intention soon to abandon it.  But the approach
of winter rendered it impossible to prolong the campaign, and by a continued encampment to
exhaust the strength of the army, already so much in need of repose. All voices were in favour
of immediately terminating the campaign: and, the more so, as the important city of Cologne
upon the Rhine was threatened by the Dutch, while the progress of the enemy in Westphalia and
the Lower Rhine called for effective reinforcements in that quarter. Wallenstein yielded to
the weight of these arguments, and almost convinced that, at this season, he had no reason
to apprehend an attack from the King, he put his troops into winter-quarters, but so that,
if necessary, they might be rapidly assembled.  Count Pappenheim was despatched, with great
part of the army, to the assistance of Cologne, with orders to take possession, on his march,
of the fortress of Moritzburg, in the territory of Halle.  Different corps took up their winter-quarters
in the neighbouring towns, to watch, on all sides, the motions of the enemy.  Count Colloredo
guarded the castle of Weissenfels, and Wallenstein himself encamped with the remainder not
far from Merseburg, between Flotzgaben and the Saal, from whence he purposed to march to Leipzig,
and to cut off the communication between the Saxons and the Swedish army.

Scarcely had Gustavus Adolphus been informed of Pappenheim's departure, when suddenly breaking
up his camp at Naumburg, he hastened with his whole force to attack the enemy, now weakened
to one half.  He advanced, by rapid marches, towards Weissenfels, from whence the news of his
arrival quickly reached the enemy, and greatly astonished the Duke of Friedland.  But a speedy
resolution was now necessary; and the measures of Wallenstein were soon taken.  Though he had
little more than 12,000 men to oppose to the 20,000 of the enemy, he might hope to maintain
his ground until the return of Pappenheim, who could not have advanced farther than Halle,
five miles distant.  Messengers were hastily despatched to recall him, while Wallenstein moved
forward into the wide plain between the Canal and Lutzen, where he awaited the King in full
order of battle, and, by this position, cut off his communication with Leipzig and the Saxon
auxiliaries.

Three cannon shots, fired by Count Colloredo from the castle of Weissenfels, announced the
king's approach; and at this concerted signal, the light troops of the Duke of Friedland, under
the command of the Croatian General Isolani, moved forward to possess themselves of the villages
lying upon the Rippach.  Their weak resistance did not impede the advance of the enemy, who
crossed the Rippach, near the village of that name, and formed in line below Lutzen, opposite
the Imperialists. The high road which goes from Weissenfels to Leipzig, is intersected between
Lutzen and Markranstadt by the canal which extends from Zeitz to Merseburg, and unites the
Elster with the Saal.  On this canal, rested the left wing of the Imperialists, and the right
of the King of Sweden; but so that the cavalry of both extended themselves along the opposite
side.  To the northward, behind Lutzen, was Wallenstein's right wing, and to the south of that
town was posted the left wing of the Swedes; both armies fronted the high road, which ran between
them, and divided their order of battle; but the evening before the battle, Wallenstein, to
the great disadvantage of his opponent, had possessed himself of this highway, deepened the
trenches which ran along its sides, and planted them with musketeers, so as to make the crossing
of it both difficult and dangerous.  Behind these, again, was erected a battery of seven large
pieces of cannon, to support the fire from the trenches; and at the windmills, close behind
Lutzen, fourteen smaller field pieces were ranged on an eminence, from which they could sweep
the greater part of the plain.  The infantry, divided into no more than five unwieldy brigades,
was drawn up at the distance of 300 paces from the road, and the cavalry covered the flanks.
All the baggage was sent to Leipzig, that it might not impede the movements of the army; and
the ammunition-waggons alone remained, which were placed in rear of the line.  To conceal the
weakness of the Imperialists, all the camp-followers and sutlers were mounted, and posted on
the left wing, but only until Pappenheim's troops arrived.  These arrangements were made during
the darkness of the night; and when the morning dawned, all was ready for the reception of
the enemy.

On the evening of the same day, Gustavus Adolphus appeared on the opposite plain, and formed
his troops in the order of attack.  His disposition was the same as that which had been so
successful the year before at Leipzig.  Small squadrons of horse were interspersed among the
divisions of the infantry, and troops of musketeers placed here and there among the cavalry.
The army was arranged in two lines, the canal on the right and in its rear, the high road in
front, and the town on the left.  In the centre, the infantry was formed, under the command
of Count Brahe; the cavalry on the wings; the artillery in front.  To the German hero, Bernard,
Duke of Weimar, was intrusted the command of the German cavalry of the left wing; while, on
the right, the king led on the Swedes in person, in order to excite the emulation of the two
nations to a noble competition.  The second line was formed in the same manner; and behind
these was placed the reserve, commanded by Henderson, a Scotchman.

In this position, they awaited the eventful dawn of morning, to begin a contest, which long
delay, rather than the probability of decisive consequences, and the picked body, rather than
the number of the combatants, was to render so terrible and remarkable.  The strained expectation
of Europe, so disappointed before Nuremberg, was now to be gratified on the plains of Lutzen.
During the whole course of the war, two such generals, so equally matched in renown and ability,
had not before been pitted against each other.  Never, as yet, had daring been cooled by so
awful a hazard, or hope animated by so glorious a prize. Europe was next day to learn who was
her greatest general:--to-morrow, the leader, who had hitherto been invincible, must acknowledge
a victor. This morning was to place it beyond a doubt, whether the victories of Gustavus at
Leipzig and on the Lech, were owing to his own military genius, or to the incompetency of his
opponent; whether the services of Wallenstein were to vindicate the Emperor's choice, and justify
the high price at which they had been purchased.  The victory was as yet doubtful, but certain
were the labour and the bloodshed by which it must be earned.  Every private in both armies,
felt a jealous share in their leader's reputation, and under every corslet beat the same emotions
that inflamed the bosoms of the generals.  Each army knew the enemy to which it was to be opposed:
and the anxiety which each in vain attempted to repress, was a convincing proof of their opponent's
strength.  The king then mounted his horse, and clad only in a leathern doublet and surtout,
(for a wound he had formerly received prevented his wearing armour,) rode along the ranks,
to animate the courage of his troops with a joyful confidence, which, however, the forboding
presentiment of his own bosom contradicted.  "God with us!" was the war-cry of the Swedes;
"Jesus Maria!" that of the Imperialists.  About eleven the fog began to disperse, and the enemy
became visible.  At the same moment Lutzen was seen in flames, having been set on fire by command
of the duke, to prevent his being outflanked on that side.  The charge was now sounded; the
cavalry rushed upon the enemy, and the infantry advanced against the trenches.

Received by a tremendous fire of musketry and heavy artillery, these intrepid battalions maintained
the attack with undaunted courage, till the enemy's musketeers abandoned their posts, the trenches
were passed, the battery carried and turned against the enemy.  They pressed forward with irresistible
impetuosity; the first of the five imperial brigades was immediately routed, the second soon
after, and the third put to flight.  But here the genius of Wallenstein opposed itself to their
progress.  With the rapidity of lightning he was on the spot to rally his discomfited troops;
and his powerful word was itself sufficient to stop the flight of the fugitives.  Supported
by three regiments of cavalry, the vanquished brigades, forming anew, faced the enemy, and
pressed vigorously into the broken ranks of the Swedes.  A murderous conflict ensued.  The
nearness of the enemy left no room for fire-arms, the fury of the attack no time for loading;
man was matched to man, the useless musket exchanged for the sword and pike, and science gave
way to desperation.  Overpowered by numbers, the wearied Swedes at last retire beyond the trenches;
and the captured battery is again lost by the retreat.  A thousand mangled bodies already strewed
the plain, and as yet not a single step of ground had been won.

In the mean time, the king's right wing, led by himself, had fallen upon the enemy's left.
The first impetuous shock of the heavy Finland cuirassiers dispersed the lightly-mounted Poles
and Croats, who were posted here, and their disorderly flight spread terror and confusion among
the rest of the cavalry.  At this moment notice was brought the king, that his infantry were
retreating over the trenches, and also that his left wing, exposed to a severe fire from the
enemy's cannon posted at the windmills was beginning to give way.  With rapid decision he committed
to General Horn the pursuit of the enemy's left, while he flew, at the head of the regiment
of Steinbock, to repair the disorder of his right wing.  His noble charger bore him with the
velocity of lightning across the trenches, but the squadrons that followed could not come on
with the same speed, and only a few horsemen, among whom was Francis Albert, Duke of Saxe Lauenburg,
were able to keep up with the king.  He rode directly to the place where his infantry were
most closely pressed, and while he was reconnoitring the enemy's line for an exposed point
of attack, the shortness of his sight unfortunately led him too close to their ranks.  An imperial
Gefreyter,--[A person exempt from watching duty, nearly corresponding to the corporal.]--remarking
that every one respectfully made way for him as he rode along, immediately ordered a musketeer
to take aim at him.  "Fire at him yonder," said he, "that must be a man of consequence." The
soldier fired, and the king's left arm was shattered.  At that moment his squadron came hurrying
up, and a confused cry of "the king bleeds! the king is shot!" spread terror and consternation
through all the ranks. "It is nothing--follow me," cried the king, collecting his whole strength;
but overcome by pain, and nearly fainting, he requested the Duke of Lauenburg, in French, to
lead him unobserved out of the tumult. While the duke proceeded towards the right wing with
the king, making a long circuit to keep this discouraging sight from the disordered infantry,
his majesty received a second shot through the back, which deprived him of his remaining strength.
"Brother," said he, with a dying voice, "I have enough! look only to your own life."  At the
same moment he fell from his horse pierced by several more shots; and abandoned by all his
attendants, he breathed his last amidst the plundering hands of the Croats.  His charger, flying
without its rider, and covered with blood, soon made known to the Swedish cavalry the fall
of their king.  They rushed madly forward to rescue his sacred remains from the hands of the
enemy.  A murderous conflict ensued over the body, till his mangled remains were buried beneath
a heap of slain.

The mournful tidings soon ran through the Swedish army; but instead of destroying the courage
of these brave troops, it but excited it into a new, a wild, and consuming flame.  Life had
lessened in value, now that the most sacred life of all was gone; death had no terrors for
the lowly since the anointed head was not spared.  With the fury of lions the Upland, Smaeland,
Finland, East and West Gothland regiments rushed a second time upon the left wing of the enemy,
which, already making but feeble resistance to General Horn, was now entirely beaten from the
field.  Bernard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar, gave to the bereaved Swedes a noble leader in his own
person; and the spirit of Gustavus led his victorious squadrons anew.  The left wing quickly
formed again, and vigorously pressed the right of the Imperialists.  The artillery at the windmills,
which had maintained so murderous a fire upon the Swedes, was captured and turned against the
enemy.  The centre, also, of the Swedish infantry, commanded by the duke and Knyphausen, advanced
a second time against the trenches, which they successfully passed, and retook the battery
of seven cannons.  The attack was now renewed with redoubled fury upon the heavy battalions
of the enemy's centre; their resistance became gradually less, and chance conspired with Swedish
valour to complete the defeat.  The imperial powder-waggons took fire, and, with a tremendous
explosion, grenades and bombs filled the air.  The enemy, now in confusion, thought they were
attacked in the rear, while the Swedish brigades pressed them in front.  Their courage began
to fail them. Their left wing was already beaten, their right wavering, and their artillery
in the enemy's hands.  The battle seemed to be almost decided; another moment would decide
the fate of the day, when Pappenheim appeared on the field, with his cuirassiers and dragoons;
all the advantages already gained were lost, and the battle was to be fought anew.

