"Chubby in London!  What delirious excitement!  I must try to go about with you sometimes,
for it will be great to hear her remarks.  She has never been in town for more than a few hours
at a time on a shopping expedition, and has everything to see.  Chubby has developed into a
very creditable specimen, I'd have you know, and she don't appreciate being called Chubby no
more.  Consequently, I make a point of addressing her by no other name!  When she gets into
a rage she looks surprisingly like the fat little girl of a dozen years back."

"Too bad!" cried Peggy, laughing.  "None of that sort of thing while she is here, remember!
No one shall tease my visitors but myself.  I'm simply longing to see the dear old girl, and
hear all the news about everybody.  Rob is at The Cedars, they say, so I must wait to see him
there, but Rosalind is in town.  Oh, Arthur, do you see much of her?  Do you meet her often?
Is she a great beauty, and does every one talk about her and make a fuss of her wherever she
goes, as we used to imagine they would do when she grew up?  Do tell me all about Rosalind!"

Arthur's face stiffened in a curious, unnatural fashion, and his lips lost their laughing curve,
and grew straight and hard.  The sparkle died out of his face, and he looked a boy no longer,
but a man, and a man who had not found his life too easy.  He was astonishingly like his father
at that moment, and both mother and sister noted the fact.

"Oh, that would be a long story, and would take up too much time.  For Rosalind's doings, see
the society papers," he cried, with an indifference too elaborate to be genuine.  "To-morrow's
issue will no doubt inform you that she is at some big function to-night, wearing a robe of
sky-blue silk, festooned with diamonds and bordered with rubies. That's the proper style of
thing, isn't it, for a society belle?  I see her occasionally.  Lord Darcy is the kindest of
friends, and I have always a welcome at his house.  I don't go very often, but I meet them
out, and am vouchsafed a dance, or ten minutes' conversation, if nobody more important is on
the scene.  Rosalind is an important personage nowadays, and can't waste her time on the likes
of me; but she is devoted to you, Peg, and will rush round to see you the moment you let her
know that you are at home."

But Peggy set her lips, and privately resolved to be in no hurry to apprise Rosalind Darcy
of her return.  No one who considered herself too grand for Arthur should have the chance of
associating with his sister. Dear, darling Arthur!  Did he still care, then?  Was Rosalind's
beautiful face still a Will-o'-the-wisp to dazzle and ensnare his heart, and was it possible
that she, or any mortal woman, could have the hardihood to resist Arthur Saville when he came
to woo?  Peggy sat silent, but her heart formed a voiceless prayer--a prayer that if in the
future trouble must come, she might be the one to bear it, and that Arthur might be shielded
from a second crushing disappointment.

CHAPTER FIVE.

The next day the Savilles lost no time in consulting the agent who had been commissioned to
advertise for houses on their behalf, and he in his turn presented them with a list of a dozen
places which were for sale, eight of which were obviously unsuitable, and none in the very
least like Peggy's ideal abode.  This was a bitter disappointment to the expectant trio, and
the disappointment was not softened by the offhand and independent manner in which they were
treated, for the agent hinted at inordinate expectations, smiled openly at Peggy's inquiry
about a moat, and floated off to attend to another inquirer, as if any other subject were worth
considering when the question of Colonel Saville's future home was on the tapis!

Mrs Saville left the office with a crestfallen air, but her husband and daughter stalked forth
with their most military stride, and exchanged glances of kindling irritation on the doorstep.

"Insubordinate wretch!" cried the colonel, the ends of his moustache looking fiercer than ever,
and his eyes gleaming with anger, for after ruling as despot over his regiment for so many
years, the lack of deference shown by a mere civilian was a distinct trial to the flesh. "There's
a good deal to be said for our friends the natives after all, Peg!  If one of them had dared
to treat me like that--"

"Just so!" assented Peggy.  "I'm with you, father.  I do like people to tremble at my nod,
and in this land of freedom no one seems in the least afraid of us.  It's disgraceful.  We
had better take the train, and look at this Uplands place.  It seems the most likely of any
on the list, so I suppose we ought to see it."

To the Uplands, then, the trio betook themselves, to find disappointment number two, for the
name had evidently been bestowed in a spirit of satire on a house situated in a valley, and
shut in by a network of trees.  The rooms smelt like so many vaults, and presented a cheerful
pattern of mould upon the walls, while even Peggy's ardour could not face the task of reducing
a wilderness into a garden.  A drive of three miles brought the explorers to yet another desirable
residence of so uncompromisingly bleak and hideous an aspect that they drove away from the
gates without examining the interior, and returned to town fatigued and discouraged.

"But we could not expect to find what we wanted the very first day," Peggy reminded herself
cheerily.  "Besides, Mellicent is coming!  That is quite enough happiness for one day.  In
two more hours she will be here.  I'll go downstairs at five o'clock, and wait for her in the
hall."

When five o'clock arrived, however, a brother officer came to call upon Colonel Saville, and
Peggy was delayed several minutes longer than she intended, so that when she repaired downstairs
it was a little past the hour when Mellicent was due.  It was quite likely that the train had
been behind time, or that difficulties in getting luggage put on a cab might have delayed her
arrival, and Peggy devoutly hoped that this had been the case, so that she might still be in
time to give a friendly welcome.  The hall was, as usual, crowded with visitors.  An American
contingent chatted merrily together in one corner; a French marquise stared around through
a gold-rimmed lorgnette; and the usual array of family parties lolled on ottomans and sofas,
scrutinising the passers- by, and exchanging whispered criticisms, which were neither so complimentary
nor so subdued as might have been desired.  A stout lady and two slim daughters, looking more
like fashion-plates than Peggy could have believed it possible for any human creatures to do,
stood discussing a knotty point together in the centre of the floor, their voluminous skirts
shutting out the view beyond.

Peggy made a detour to the side, caught sight of a broad, blue serge back, looking broader
than ever from contrast with sylph-like forms, a coil of yellow hair beneath a sailor hat,
and the side of a crimson cheek.  Mellicent!  Of course it was Mellicent!  There she stood,
the poor dear thing, a statue of misery in the midst of the fashionable crowd, a roll of shawls
clutched in one hand, her dress thick with dust, and her hair blown into disorder.  The critics
on the benches sniggered and whispered to one another, and the French marquise examined her
through the lorgnette with unconcealed amaze; but at the sight of the familiar figure Peggy's
heart leapt within her, for she saw again the ivy-covered vicarage, and the shabby, sunny schoolroom
in which she had spent such happy days.  A hand clutched Mellicent's arm in ecstatic grasp,
and a tremulous voice spoke in her ear.

"Mellicent, darling!  Is it really you?"

"Oh, my goodness, Peggy, have you come at last?  Nobody knew where you were, and they said
they'd send, and it's simply awful the way these wretches stare!" cried Mellicent in a rush,
"They sit round in rows, and glare as if they had nothing in the world to do but quiz the poor
new arrivals as they come in at the door."

"Which, my dear, is precisely the state of the case.  It is disconcerting, especially when
you arrive in the evening, after a tempestuous Channel passage, and step into a hall aglow
with diamonds and eye-glasses; but turn about is fair play!" cried Peggy reassuringly. "To-morrow
you and I will quiz in our turn, and just think how we shall enjoy it.  Father and I have sat
together for hours, criticising and inventing histories, and you have no idea how entertaining
it is. You'll simply love it."

"No, I sha'n't.  It's unkind and cruel, and must make people simply dread coming in.  If I
were the manager, I wouldn't allow it!" declared Mellicent in righteous wrath; then her eyes
turned to her companion, and a tardy realisation of the position seemed to dawn upon her. 
"Oh, Peggy!" she cried, and again, "Oh, Peggy!  I'm so glad to see you again.  It has seemed
such a long, long time since you went away, and there was no one like you--no one who could
ever take your place."

Peggy gave an affectionate little grip to the blue serge arm, but made none of the protests
which usually follow such an announcement.  Modesty not being her strong point, she saw no
reason to dispute Mellicent's assertion, so smiled instead, and cried reassuringly:

"Never mind, I'm back again now, and never going away no more!  Dear old Chubs, you look so
fresh, and pink-and-white and Englishy, that it does me good to see you.  This is our sitting-room,
and you must come in and say how do you do to father and mother, and have some tea.  Father
is going out with a friend presently, and mother will have a rest in her bedroom, so we shall
have a cosy little chat by ourselves.  Don't look alarmed!  They are not a bit fierce, I assure
you, but a most mild and agreeable old couple."

As she spoke Peggy threw open the door of the sitting-room, and the mild and agreeable couple
bestowed the kindliest of greetings upon their young visitor; but the surroundings were all
so strange and formal that country-bred Mellicent was overpowered, and could only blush and
stammer in school-girl fashion.  Her own perfect consciousness of the fact added fuel to her
embarrassment, and a full-length mirror at the opposite side of the room presented such an
exasperating contrast of rustic awkwardness and dainty grace, as she and Peggy stood side by
side, that her heart died down within her.  Poor Mellicent! her new coat and skirt had been
made by the very best dressmaker in the village, and had been considered a miracle of elegance
by the admiring home circle; so that she had looked forward to making quite a triumphant entrance,
and now here she was, looking her very worst, and conscious of a dozen shortcomings as she
looked at her friend's graceful figure.  Peggy's features still retained their miniature-like
faultlessness of outline, her pretty hair was coiled about her head in fantastic fashion, she
bore herself with even more than the old assurance, and rustled about the room in a gown of
Parisian manufacture.  A little chill of strangeness and depression settled down on Mellicent's
spirits.  For the last month she had lived in constant expectation of this visit, had built
a fairy edifice of dreams concerning it, and already the foundations were beginning to totter.
The great hotel, with its crowd of critical inmates, was terrifying to the country-bred girl,
the graciousness of her host and hostess appeared formal, when compared with the warm- hearted
cordiality of her Irish mother, and even Peggy herself seemed transformed into another person.
It was no longer Peggy, it was Mariquita, and Mariquita a dozen times more self-possessed and
imposing than in the days of old.

When Colonel and Mrs Saville left the room, Mellicent watched with awed eyes an interview which
took place between Miss Peggy and a waiter whom she had summoned to bring a supply of fresh
tea.  There were several other matters to discuss regarding the despatch of letters and parcels,
and the severe though courteous manner in which the young lady conducted the conversation,
reduced the listener to a condition of speechless amazement.  When the door closed behind the
man, Peggy met the stare of the horrified blue eyes, and put a laughing inquiry as to the nature
of her offence.

"I don't know how you dare talk to him like that!" stammered Mellicent in return.  "He is ever
so much older than you, and looks so--so dignified and grand, and you order him about, and
tell him to be careful, and send him running up and downstairs.  I don't know how you can do
it.  I'm nervous enough about finding fault with the servants at home, but with a stranger!
A man!  I could never summon up courage to find fault, no matter what mistakes he made.  And
you are so cool about it!"

"My dear, I'm used to it.  Consider the position I have had to fill these last three years
in Indiah!" drawled Miss Peggy, and leant her head against the cushions of her chair with an
exhausted air, which seemed to imply that she had come straight from the duties of Government
House itself.  Then suddenly she straightened herself, and attacked the teapot.

"I forget if you take sugar in your tea.  So few people do nowadays. And cream?  It's rather
strong, I'm afraid.  Be sure to tell me if it's exactly as you like."

"Thank you!" murmured Mellicent faintly.  She put the cup down on a table close at hand, and
fumbled nervously with her gloves.

"P-Peggy!"

"Yes, dear."

"Peg-gy!"

"Yes, Mellicent, what is it?"

"Oh, Peggy, I feel--I feel so uncomfortable!  It's all so strange and different from what I
expected.  I thought I should feel at home the moment I saw you--but I don't, not a bit.  You
look so grown-up and proper, and your dress is so grand, and you have done your hair like the
people in the fashion-books, and I never can make out how on earth they twist it in and out...
We are the same age, but you seem ever so much older, and I don't feel that it is you at all."

"The inference is, that I never was proper, nor tidy, nor well-dressed in the old days!  Not
very complimentary to me, I must say," began Peggy lightly, and then caught sight of a tear-drop
glittering on Mellicent's eyelashes, which sobered her very quickly.  Crying?  No, surely not;
yet tears were there, undeniable tears, filling the blue eyes, and rolling slowly down over
the pink cheeks.  Peggy dropped down on her knees, and clasped her hands round the plump blue
waist.

"Why, Mill, what is it?  What grieves you, dear?  What have I done, or said, or looked--horrid
thing that I am!--to vex you within ten minutes of your arrival?  I never, never meant it!"

"You haven't done anything!  It's my own fault.  I'm sorry to be so silly, Peggy, but all this
time I have been longing and longing to see you, and thinking that it would be just the same
as in the old days; but, oh, Peggy, we've led such different lives, and it's not the same--
oh, it's not the same at all!  I have stood still, but you have moved on, and there's such
a big, big difference.  I realised it all of a sudden, and began to cry like a baby, but it's
not your fault.  It's only because I am so fond--so fond of you, Peggy, and so sorry to think--"

"You dear, sweet goose!  Stop crying this minute, and listen to me. There is no difference
between us, and it's going to be exactly the same.  You are Mellicent Asplin, and I'm Peggy
Saville, and after my very own people I love the dear old vicaragers more than any one else
in the world.  I never change in my affections, and in other respects the day may yet dawn,
my love, when you may wish that I had altered considerably more than I have.  Will it help
you to recognise me if I pull your hair, eli?--or tickle you under the chin, eh?--or give a
nice little jolt to your elbow just as you lift your cup, eh?" cried Peggy, illustrating each
inquiry in practical fashion, while Mellicent giggled in the midst of tears, and dabbed her
eyes with her handkerchief.

"D-o-on't!  You'll spoil my dress.  Oh, Peggy, it is good of you, and I did so want to come,
and will you really promise not to be ashamed of me, if I make stupid mistakes, and look dowdy
and horrid when we go out together?"

"I'll be ashamed of you, and furious into the bargain, if you hint at such a thing again. 
I'm not a snob, thank goodness!  Now sit up, my dear, and drop sentiment, and attend to tea.
Take a cress sandwich, and don't cry over it, I beseech you!  If there is one thing more objectionable
than another, it is wet salad.  Tell me all about home, and every one in it.  Are they looking
forward to my advent, and is cook remembering my favourite puddings?  I've got a present for
every one-- such a beautiful white shawl for Mrs Asplin, a tiger skin for your father's study,
some old manuscripts for Esther, as I could not think of anything she would like better, and--"

"And what for--How very nice!  So kind of you, Peggy, to think of us!" protested Mellicent,
drawing herself up with sudden recollection, but palpitating with curiosity to hear what her
own share might be.  "Esther hopes to get home while you are with us, but she can't tear herself
from her precious pupils for more than a week.  She has three little boys whom she is training
for school, and teaching Latin and Greek and mathematics and all sorts of horrid things.  You
would hate it, Peggy, and so would I, but Esther loves it, and grudges every moment she is away."

Peggy laughed.

"I can imagine it!  The little rascals scrawling substantives on their slates--`O frog--To
a frog--By, with, or from a frog!' and Esther's solemn distress over a wrong termination. 
Isn't it a blessing that we are made differently, and that some people are born with such wonderful
patience and forbearance?  I pity their poor little knuckles if I were in charge.  But then
I was always hastily inclined.  Your father used to say that Esther and Rob had far more of
the scholarly spirit than Rex, though he must have worked hard to get through his examinations
so well. Dear old Rex, how I should love to see him again!  It seems so funny to think of him
as a full-fledged doctor, with a practice of his own!  How does he like living in the North,
and how does he get on?"

Mellicent shrugged her shoulders uncertainly.

"Pretty well, only it's such a disgustingly bracing place that no one is ever ill.  Rex says
it is most depressing to look out of the windows and see the healthy faces!  He gets so tired
waiting for patients who never come.  I stayed with him for a week in the winter, and whenever
the bell rang we used to rush out into the hall, and peer over the banisters to see who was
there, and if it was a patient Rex kept him waiting for ten minutes by his watch, to pretend
that he was busy, though he was really dying to fly downstairs at once.  He makes very little
money, and father has to help him a good deal; but last month something happened which he hopes
will help him on.  The mayor of the town had a carriage accident just opposite his house, and
was nearly killed.  Wasn't it luck for Rex? He was so pleased!  The mayor was carried into
the house, and could not be moved for days, and the papers were full of `Dr Asplin this, and
Dr Asplin that,' as if he was the biggest doctor they had!  The mayoress seems to have taken
a fancy to him too, for she begs him to go to their house as often as he likes, without waiting
to be asked.  It will be nice for Rex to have some friends in the town, for he daren't go far
from home.  Oswald and his wife live within an hour's rail, and often invite him there, but
he is afraid to go, in case a patient should appear!"

"Oswald's wife!  How strange it sounds!  I have never heard anything about her, and am so curious
to know what she is like!  What account did Rex bring when he came home from the wedding?"

"He said he couldn't attempt to describe her, but that you could meet seventy-six girls exactly
like her any day of the week.  Rather pretty, rather fair, rather nice, rather musical!  Everything
rather, and nothing very! and thinks Oswald the most wonderful man in the world. She can't
be very clever herself, if she thinks that, can she?  Oswald was always a regular dunce!"

"Oh, `dunce' is too strong a word, Chubby!  He was not brilliant, but you must remember that
he suffered from contrast with his companions. Rex was very bright, if he was not exactly clever,
and it is not often that you come across such a really scholarly boy as Rob Darcy!"

Peggy busied herself with the arrangement of the tea-tray without glancing in her friend's
direction, and with an air of studied carelessness.  She herself knew that she had dragged
Rob's name into the discussion for no other object than to set Mellicent's ready tongue to
work on a subject about which she was longing for information, and she was alarmed lest her
intention might be suspected.  Mellicent, however, had retained her comfortable obtuseness,
and rose to the bait with innocent alacrity.

"Well, I don't know if you call it scholarly to think of nothing in the world but beetles,
and grubby little plants that no one ever heard of before; but I call it idiotic.  He is worse
than Esther, because, after all, schoolboys are human creatures, and sometimes you can't help
liking them, though they are so tiresome, but nobody could love a beetle!  I said so once to
Rob, and he snubbed me dreadfully, and talked at me for half an hour.  I didn't understand
half he said--for it was all in technical beetley language, but it was meant to prove that
it was wrong to say anything of the sort, or refuse to see the beauty hidden away in the meanest
created thing."

"Quite true!  I agree with Rob.  He was perfectly right."

"But, Peggy, a beetle!  And to care for nothing else!  You have no idea what a regular old
hermit Rob has become.  He is perfectly wrapped up in beetles!" cried Mellicent, with a descriptive
elegance of diction, at which her hearer shuddered visibly.  "He takes no interest in anything
else!"

Peggy smiled, and her head took a complacent tilt.

"That's bad!  That will have to be altered.  He'll take interest in me, my dear, or there'll
be trouble!  I believe in a man devoting himself to his work, but Rob is too nice to be allowed
to bury himself completely.  I must rouse him up!  A fortnight from now we will meet again,
and the treatment will begin.  Meanest creatures are all very well in their way, but superior
ones demand their own share of attention.  Rob always did as I told him, and he will not disappoint
me now."

Mellicent gazed at her friend in reflective fashion.  She called up before her a picture of
Rob's great stooping form, his shaggy head, and overhanging brows, and contrasted it mentally
with that of the slim little, neat little, prettiest of elf-like figures before her.  No, it
was not in the least likely that Rob would disappoint Peggy Saville. "Those dreadful Savilles"
had now, as ever, the power of enforcing obedience from their vassals.

"But all the same," she repeated obstinately, "but all the same he would have liked you better
if you had been a beetle!"

CHAPTER SIX.

The next morning was devoted to another house-hunting expedition, unsuccessful as its predecessor,
while in the afternoon came a fresh excitement, in the shape of a call from Arthur's "chief,"
accompanied by his wife and daughter.  Mr Rob had had a slight acquaintance with Colonel Saville
years before, so that the interview lost some of the stiffness incidental to such occasions;
and while the two men talked together in one corner of the room, their wives exchanged condolences
on the ever-fruitful subject of domestic arrangements, and the three girls cast curious glances
at one another in the intervals of conversation.

"I am afraid you must find the weather chilly.  Our English springs are very treacherous!"
remarked Miss Rollo properly, turning her card-case round and round in her hands, and blinking
rapidly with a pair of shy grey eyes, veiled by eyelashes of extraordinary length and silkiness.
As the only child of distinguished parents, Miss Eunice Rollo was a personage of some importance
in society; but she appeared much more afraid of the two girls than they were of her, and kept
her eyes fixed so persistently on the carpet that Mellicent enjoyed an unusual opportunity
of indulging a favourite pastime, and sat braced against the back of her chair, staring stolidly
up and down, down and up, until she could have passed an examination on the minutest detail
of the stranger's appearance and clothing.  As for Peggy, she prattled away on the engrossing
subjects of sun and rain, while her thoughts went off on an excursion of their own, and busied
themselves with criticisms on the new visitor.

"Eunice by name, and Eunice by nature!  A more Eunicey creature I never beheld.  Grey eyes
like Mrs Asplin...  I could love her for those alone, but so solemn!  I'd like to wake you
up, my dear, and make you look more like a real live girl, and less like a marionette.  The
way that Mellicent stares is disgraceful.  She must be made to stop."

Peggy cleared her throat in meaning fashion, met the wide blue eyes and frowned a warning.
Any other girl in the world would have understood and obeyed; but Mellicent only gaped the
more, raised questioning eyebrows, and even mouthed a dumb inquiry.  Peggy screwed up her face
into a vicious glare of anger, at which moment, it is needless to say, Eunice seized the opportunity
to lift her eyes from the carpet.  For one second amazement held her motionless, then she fell
to work on the card- case with redoubled zeal, and tilted her hat over her face.  Her eyes
could not be seen, but her lips were twisted on one side, and her cheeks grew suddenly, mysteriously
pink.  Was she laughing?  Was she angry? Peggy could not tell, but she felt an intense curiosity
to discover, and a dawning suspicion that Eunice was perhaps not quite so "Eunicey" after all.

"It is very nice to come home to the old country again, and to see all our friends.  Miss Asplin
and I had lessons together for four years, so that, as you may imagine, we have a great deal
to talk over now that we have met again," she explained; and Miss Rollo replied with elaborate
politeness:

"I can indeed.  It must be delightful I hope you will bring Miss Asplin with you, if you come
to us on Wednesday.  We are having a reception in the evening, with music and tableaux.  It
will be a crush, I'm afraid, but you may find it amusing.  Rosalind Darcy is coming.  She has
been staying in the country for a week, but she will be back by then, and would like to see
you, I'm sure.  I hope you will be able to come."

"Oh, I hope so!"  The answer came simultaneously from two pairs of lips, and Mellicent drew
in her breath with a gasp of pleasure.  It was beginning already.  What excitement--what joy--what
delight!  Only the first day of her visit, and behold! an invitation to one of the best- known
houses in London, where with her own eyes she should behold those great people of the world
whom she had read about, but never, never expected to see.  At this rate, Mellicent reflected,
she would find herself on intimate terms at Court before the fortnight was concluded; and oh!
the joy of returning home and speaking in casual tones about Princes of the Blood, Dukes and
Marquises, and Cabinet Ministers, for, the edification of village hearers!  Her complacency
vented itself in a long postscript to the letter already written to her mother, a postscript
of such characteristic nature as delighted that appreciative lady, and which was read aloud
with much unction to her husband, and a friend of the family who happened to be paying a call
at the time, whereby, as will be seen, certain things came to pass which would not otherwise
have happened.

The prospect of Mrs Rollo's reception was so dazzling as to throw all other experiences into
the shade; but the two intervening days were full of excitement, for Peggy was delighted to
play "country cousin" for her friend's benefit, and the two girls drove about from one place
of interest to another, from early morning until late at night. Westminster Abbey had, of course,
special claims on the affections, and evoked that thrill of mingled awe and patriotism which
all true-born Britons must feel on entering that glorious edifice.  When the voices of the
choristers rang out in the psalms for the morning, Mellicent shed tears on her Prayer-book,
and felt icy-cold all the way down her spine, and Peggy's eyes flashed fire, and the rare colour
burned in her cheeks.

When the service was over the two girls wandered about together gazing at the monuments, reading
the inscriptions which recalled noble deeds, and exchanging ardent confidences the while.

"I should like to come here every day," said Mellicent softly, "every single day.  I should
like to be a verger, and spend my life in an abbey.  I think I could be awfully good if I lived
here always.  It makes one feel so small and insignificant, that one wouldn't dare to be selfish,
and think one's own happiness so important.  I can't believe that it was ever built by men--ordinary
common working men.  It seems like a mountain--a great, wonderful thing that God must have
made Himself, and given to His people."

Peggy looked at her with bright, astonished eyes.

"You dear thing, what a sweet idea!  I feel the same about it; but perhaps, after all, it was
better that men should have made it.  It must have done them good.  One cannot imagine that
a workman in such a task could remain `common.'  I have read charming stories about men who
have devoted their whole lives to little pieces of carving or ironwork, to be placed in insignificant
corners of old Continental cathedrals.  It did not trouble them that their work would not be
seen; they were so impressed with the spirit of the place that they simply could not endure
to do less than their very, very best, and were willing to remain poor all their lives in order
to be able to do it.  That's fine!  That's grand!  None of your miserable scamping spirit there.
The place made the men, as well as the men the place."

"Yes, yes, that's just what I feel.  I'd like to do something for it too, if it were only the
dusting," sighed Mellicent, passing her finger along a ledge of wood, and pensively regarding
the ridge of dust on her light kid gloves.  "I assure you, Peggy, the shivers were running
down my back the whole time of that service like a cold-water tap.  I was freezing!"

