At one of our sessions a curious difficulty arose.  The committee on the award of these foremost
prizes for advanced work in electricity brought in their report, and, to my amazement, made
no award to my compatriot Edison, who was then at the height of his reputation.  Presently
Tresca, who read the report, and who really lamented the omission, whispered to me the reason
of it.  Through the negligence of persons representing Edison, no proper exhibition of his
inventions had been made to the committee.  They had learned that his agent was employed in
showing the phonograph in a distant hall on the boulevards to an audience who paid an admission
fee; but, although they had tried two or three times to have his apparatus shown them, they
had been unsuccessful, until at last, from a feeling of what was due their own self-respect,
they passed the matter over entirely.  Of course my duty was to do what was possible in rectifying
this omission, and in as good French as I could muster I made a speech in Edison's behalf,
describing his career, outlining his work, and saying that I should really be ashamed to return
to America without some recognition of him and of his inventions.  This was listened to most
courteously, but my success was insured by a remark of a less serious character, which was
that if Edison had not yet made a sufficient number of inventions to entitle him to a grand
prize, he would certainly, at the rate he was going on, have done so before the close of the
exposition.  At this there was a laugh, and my amendment was unanimously carried.

Many features in my work interested me, but one had a melancholy tinge.  One afternoon, having
been summoned to pass upon certain competing works in sculpture, we finally stood before the
great bronze entrance- doors of the Cathedral of Strasburg, which, having been designed before
the Franco-Prussian War, had but just been finished.  They were very beautiful; but I could
see that my French associates felt deeply the changed situation of affairs which this exhibit
brought to their minds.

In order to promote the social relations which go for so much at such times, I had taken the
large apartment temporarily relinquished by our American minister, Governor Noyes of Ohio,
in the Avenue Josephine; and there, at my own table, brought together from time to time a considerable
number of noted men from various parts of Europe.  Perhaps the most amusing occurrence during
the series of dinners I then gave was the meeting between Story, the American sculptor at Rome,
and Judge Brady of New York.  For years each had been taken for the other, in various parts
of the world, but they had never met.  In fact, so common was it for people to mistake one
for the other that both had, as a rule, ceased to explain the mistake.  I was myself present
with Story on one occasion when a gentleman came up to him, saluted him as Judge Brady, and
asked him about their friends in New York:  Story took no trouble to undeceive his interlocutor,
but remarked that, so far as he knew, they were all well, and ended the interview with commonplaces.

These two Dromios evidently enjoyed meeting, and nothing could be more amusing than their accounts
of various instances in which each had been mistaken for the other.  Each had a rich vein of
humor, and both presented the details of these occurrences with especial zest.

Another American, of foreign birth, was not quite so charming.  He was a man of value in his
profession; but his desire for promotion outran his discretion.  Having served as juror at
the Vienna Exposition, he had now been appointed to a similar place in Paris; and after one
of my dinners he came up to a group in which there were two or three members of the French
cabinet, and said:  ``Mr. Vite, I vish you vould joost dell dese zhentlemen vat I am doing
vor Vrance.  I vas on de dasting gommittee for vines und peers at Vien, and it 'most killed
me; and now I am here doing de same duty, and my stomach has nearly gone pack on me.  Tell
dese zhentlemen dat de French Government zurely ought to gonfer ubon me de Legion of Honor.''
This was spoken with the utmost seriousness, and was embarrassing, since, of all subjects,
that which a French minister least wishes to discuss publicly is the conferring of the red ribbon.

Embarrassing also was the jubilation of some of our American exhibitors at our celebration
of the Fourth of July in the Bois de Boulogne.  Doubtless they were excellent citizens, but
never was there a better exemplification of Dr. Arnold's saying that ``a traveller is a self-constituted
outlaw.''  A generous buffet had been provided, after the French fashion, with a sufficiency
of viands and whatever wine was needed.  To my amazement, these men, who at home were most
of them, probably, steady-going ``temperance men,'' were so overcome with the idea that champagne
was to be served ad libitum, that the whole thing came near degenerating into an orgy.  A European
of the same rank, accustomed to drinking wine moderately with his dinner, would have simply
taken a glass or two and thought no more of it; but these gentlemen seemed to see in it the
occasion of their lives.  Bottles were seized and emptied, glass after glass, down the throats
of my impulsive fellow-citizens: in many cases a bottle and more to a man.  Then came the worst
of it.  It had been arranged that speeches should be made under a neighboring tent by leading
members of the French cabinet who had accepted invitations to address us.  But when they proceeded
to do this difficulties arose.  A number of our compatriots, unduly exhilarated, and understanding
little that was said, first applauded on general principles, but at the wrong places, and finally
broke out into apostrophes such as ``Speak English, old boy!''  ``Talk Yankee fashion!''  ``Remember
the glorious Fourth!''  ``Give it to the British!''  ``Make the eagle scream!'' and the like.
The result was that we were obliged to make most earnest appeals to these gentlemen, begging
them not to disgrace our country; and, finally, the proceedings were cut short.

Nor was this the end.  As I came down the Champs <E'>lys<e'>es afterward, I met several groups
of these patriots, who showed by their walk and conversation that they were decidedly the worse
for their celebration of the day; and the whole thing led me to reflect seriously on the drink
problem, and to ask whether our American solution of it is the best.  I have been present at
many large festive assemblages, in various parts of Europe, where wine was offered freely as
a matter of course; but never have I seen anything to approach this performance of my countrymen.
I have been one of four thousand people at the H<o^>tel de Ville in Paris on the occasion of
a great ball, at other entertainments almost as large in other Continental countries, and at
dinner parties innumerable in every European country; but never, save in one instance, were
the festivities disturbed by any man on account of drink.

The most eminent of American temperance advocates during my young manhood, Mr. Delavan, insisted
that he found Italy, where all people, men, women, and children, drink wine with their meals,
if they can get it, the most temperate country he had ever seen; and, having made more than
twelve different sojourns in Italy, I can confirm that opinion.

So, too, again and again, when traveling in the old days on the top of a diligence through
village after village in France, where the people were commemorating the patron saint of their
district, I have passed through crowds of men, women, and children seated by the roadside drinking
wine, cider, and beer, and, so far as one could see, there was no drunkenness; certainly none
of the squalid, brutal, swinish sort.  It may indeed be said that, in spite of light stimulants,
drunkenness has of late years increased in France, especially among artisans and day laborers.
If this be so, it comes to strengthen my view.  For the main reason will doubtless be found
in the increased prices of light wines, due to vine diseases and the like, which have driven
the poorer classes to seek far more noxious beverages.

So, too, in Germany.  Like every resident in that country, I have seen great crowds drinking
much beer, and, though I greatly dislike that sort of guzzling, I never saw anything of the
beastly, crazy, drunken exhibitions which are so common on Independence Day and county- fair
day in many American towns where total abstinence is loudly preached and ostensibly practised.
Least of all do I admire the beer-swilling propensities of the German students, and still I
must confess that I have never seen anything so wild, wicked, outrageous, and destructive to
soul and body as the drinking of distilled liquors at bars which, in my student days, I saw
among American students.  But I make haste to say that within the last twenty or thirty years
American students have improved immensely in this respect.  Athletics and greater interest
in study, caused by the substitution of the students' own aims and tastes for the old cast-iron
curriculum, are doubtless the main reasons for this improvement.[12]

[12] Further reasons for this improvement I have endeavored to give more in detail elsewhere.

Yet, in spite of this redeeming thing, the fact remains that one of the greatest curses of
American life is the dram-drinking of distilled liquors at bars; and one key of the whole misery
is the American habit of ``treating,''--a habit unknown in other countries.  For example, in
America, if Tom, Dick, and Harry happen to meet at a hotel, or in the street, to discuss politics
or business, Tom invites Dick and Harry to drink with him, which, in accordance with the code
existing among large classes of our fellow-citizens, Dick and Harry feel bound to do.  After
a little more talk Dick invites Harry and Tom to drink; they feel obliged to accept; and finally
Harry invites Tom and Dick, with like result; so that these three men have poured down their
throats several glasses of burning stimulants, perhaps in the morning, perhaps just before
the midday meal, or at some other especially unsuitable time, with results more or less injurious
to each of them, physically and morally.

The European, more sensible, takes with his dinner, as a rule, a glass or two of wine or beer,
and is little, if at all, the worse for it.  If he ever takes any distilled liquor, he sips
a very small glass of it after his dinner, to aid digestion.

It is my earnest conviction, based upon wide observation in my own country as well as in many
others during about half a century, that the American theory and practice as regards the drink
question are generally more pernicious than those of any other civilized nation.  I am not
now speaking of TOTAL ABSTINENCE--of that, more presently.  But the best TEMPERANCE workers
among us that I know are the men who brew light, pure beer, and the vine-growers in California
who raise and sell at a very low price wines pleasant and salutary, if any wines can be so.

As to those who have no self-restraint, beer and wine, like many other things, promote the
``survival of the fittest,'' and are, like many other things, ``fool-killers,'' aiding to free
the next generation from men of vicious propensities and weak will.

I repeat it, the curse of American social life, among a very considerable class of our people,
is ``perpendicular drinking''--that is, the pouring down of glass after glass of distilled
spirits, mostly adulterated, at all sorts of inopportune times, and largely under the system
of ``treating.''

The best cure for this, in my judgment, would be for States to authorize and local authorities
to adopt the ``Swedish system,'' which I found doing excellent service at Gothenburg in Sweden
a few years since, and which I am sorry to see the fanatics there have recently wrecked.  Under
this plan the various towns allowed a company to open a certain number of clean, tidy drinking-
places; obliged them to purchase pure liquors; forbade them, under penalties, to sell to any
man who had already taken too much; made it also obligatory to sell something to eat at the
same time with something to drink; and, best of all, restricted the profits of these establishments
to a moderate percentage,--seven or eight per cent., if I re- member rightly,--all the surplus
receipts going to public purposes, and especially to local charities.  The main point was that
the men appointed to dispense the drinks had no motive to sell adulterated drinks, or any more
liquor than was consistent with the sobriety of the customer.

I may add that, in my opinion, the worst enemies of real temperance in America, as in other
countries, have been the thoughtless screamers against intemperance, who have driven vast numbers
of their fellow-citizens to drink in secret or at bars.  Of course I shall have the honor of
being railed at and denounced by every fanatic who reads these lines, but from my heart I believe
them true.

I remember that some of these people bitterly attacked Governor Stanford of California for
the endowment of Stanford University, in part, from the rent of his vineyards.  People who
had not a word to say against one theological seminary for accepting the Daniel Drew endowment,
or against another for accepting the Jay Gould endowment, were horrified that the Stanford
University should receive revenue from a vineyard.  The vineyards of California, if their product
were legally protected from adulteration, could be made one of the most potent influences against
drunkenness that our country has seen.  The California wines are practically the only pure
wines accessible to Americans.  They are so plentiful that there is no motive to adulterate
them, and their use among those of us who are so unwise as to drink anything except water ought
to be effectively advocated as supplanting the drinking of beer poisoned with strychnine, whisky
poisoned with fusel-oil, and ``French claret'' poisoned with salicylic acid and aniline.

The true way to supplant the ``saloon'' and the barroom, as regards working-men who obey their
social instincts by seeking something in the nature of a club, and therefore resorting to places
where stimulants are sold, is to take the course so ably advocated by Bishop Potter: namely,
to furnish places of refreshment and amusement which shall be free from all tendency to beastliness,
and which, with cheerful open fireplaces, games of various sorts, good coffee and tea, and,
if necessary, light beer and wine, shall be more attractive than the ``saloons'' and ``dives''
which are doing our country such vast harm.

My advice to all men is to drink nothing but water.  That is certainly the wisest way for nine
men out of ten --and probably for all ten.  Indeed, one reason why the great body of our people
accomplish so much more in a given time than those of any other country, and why the average
American working-man ``catches on'' and ``gits thar'' more certainly and quickly than a man
of the same sort in any other country (and careful comparison between various other countries
and our own has shown that this is the case), is that a much larger proportion of our people
do not stupefy themselves with stimulants.

In what I have said above I have had in view the problem as it really stands: namely, the existence
of a very large number of people who WILL have stimulants of some kind.  In such cases common
sense would seem to dictate that, in the case of those who persist in using distilled liquors,
something ought to be done to substitute those which are pure for those which are absolutely
poisonous and maddening; and, in the case of those who merely seek a mild stimulant, to substitute
for distilled liquors light fermented beverages; and, in the case of those who seek merely
recreation after toil, to substitute for beverages which contain alcohol, light beverages like
coffee, tea, and chocolate.

This is a long digression, but liberavi animam meam, and now I return to my main subject.

The American commissioners were treated with great kindness by the French authorities.  There
were exceedingly interesting receptions by various ministers, and at these one met the men
best worth knowing in France: the men famous in science, literature, and art, who redeem France
from the disgrace heaped upon her by the wretched creatures who most noisily represent her
through sensational newspapers.

Of the men who impressed me most was Henri Martin, the eminent historian.  He discussed with
me the history of France in a way which aroused many new trains of thought.  Jules Simon, eminent
both as a scholar and a statesman, did much for me.  On one occasion he took me about Paris,
showing me places of special interest connected with the more striking scenes of the Revolutionary
period; on another, he went with me to the distribution of prizes at the French Academy--a
most striking scene; and on still another he piloted me through his beautiful library, pointing
out various volumes in which were embedded bullets which the communards had fired through his
windows from the roof of the Madeleine just opposite.

Another interesting experience was a breakfast with the eminent chemist Sainte-Claire Deville,
at which I met Pasteur, who afterward took me through his laboratories, where he was then making
some of his most important experiments.  In one part of his domain there were cages containing
dogs, and on my asking about them he said that he was beginning a course of experiments bearing
on the causes and cure of hydrophobia.  Nothing could be more simple and modest than this announcement
of one of the most fruitful investigations ever made.

Visits to various institutions of learning interested me much, among these a second visit to
the Agricultural College at Grignon and the wonderful Conservatoire des Arts et M<e'>tiers,
which gave me new ideas for the similar departments at Cornell, and a morning at the <E'>cole
Normale, where I saw altogether the best teaching of a Latin classic that I have ever known.
As I heard Professor Desjardins discussing with his class one of Cicero's letters in the light
of modern monuments in the Louvre and of recent archaeological discoveries, I longed to be
a boy again.

Among the statesmen whom I met at that time in France, a strong impression was made upon me
by one who had played a leading part in the early days of Napoleon III, but who was at this
time living in retirement, M. Drouyn de Lhuys.  He had won distinction as minister of foreign
affairs, but, having retired from politics, had given himself up in his old age to various
good enterprises, among these, to the great Reform School at Mettray.  This he urged me to
visit, and, although it was at a considerable distance from Paris, I took his advice, and was
much interested in it.  The school seemed to me well deserving thorough study by all especially
interested in the problem of crime in our own country.

There is in France a system under which, when any young man is evidently going all wrong,--squandering
his patrimony and bringing his family into disgrace,--a family council can be called, with
power to place the wayward youth under restraint; and here, in one part of the Mettray establishment,
were rooms in which such youths were detained in accordance with the requests of family councils.
It appeared that some had derived benefit from these detentions, for there were shown me one
or two letters from them: one, indeed, written by a young man on the bottom of a drawer, and
intended for the eye of his successor in the apartment, which was the most contrite yet manly
appeal I have ever read.

Another man of great eminence whom I met in those days was Thiers.  I was taken by an old admirer
of his to his famous house in the Place St. Georges, and there found him, in the midst of his
devotees, receiving homage.

He said but little, and that little was commonplace; but I was not especially disappointed:
my opinion of him was made up long before, and time has but confirmed it.  The more I have
considered his doings as minister or parliamentarian, and the more I have read his works, whether
his political pamphlet known as the ``History of the French Revolution,'' which did so much
to arouse sterile civil struggles, or his ``History of the Consulate and of the Empire,'' which
did so much to revive the Napoleonic legend, or his speeches under the constitutional monarchy
of Louis Philippe, under the Republic, and under the Second Empire, which did so much to promote
confusion and anarchy, the less I admire him.  He seems to me eminently an architect of ruin.

It is true that when France was wallowing in the misery into which he and men like him had
done so much to plunge her, he exerted himself wonderfully to accomplish her rescue; but when
the history of that country during the last century shall be fairly written, his career, brilliant
as it once appeared, will be admired by no thinking patriot.

I came to have far more respect for another statesman whom I then met--Duruy, the eminent historian
of France and of Rome, who had labored so earnestly under the Second Empire, both as a historian
and a minister of state, to develop a basis for rational liberty.

Seated next me at dinner, he made a remark which threw much light on one of the most serious
faults of the French Republic.  Said he, ``Monsieur, I was minister of public instruction under
the Empire for seven years; since my leaving that post six years have elapsed, and in that
time I have had seven successors.''

On another occasion he discoursed with me about the special difficulties of France; and as
I mentioned to him that I remembered his controversy with Cardinal de Bonnechose, in which
the latter tried to drive him out of office because he did not fetter scientific teaching in
the University of Paris, he spoke quite freely with me.  Although not at all a radical, and
evidently willing to act in concert with the church as far as possible, he gave me to understand
that the demands made by ecclesiastics upon every French ministry were absolutely unendurable;
that France never could yield to these demands; and that, sooner or later, a great break must
come between the church and modern society.  His prophecy now seems nearing fulfilment.

Among the various meetings which were held in connection with the exposition was a convention
of literary men for the purpose of securing better international arrangements regarding copyright.
Having been elected a member of this, I had the satisfaction of hearing most interesting speeches
from Victor Hugo, Tourgueneff, and Edmond About.  The latter made the best speech of all, and
by his exquisite wit and pleasing humor fully showed his right to the name which his enemies
had given him-- ``the Voltaire of the nineteenth century.''

The proceedings of this convention closed with a banquet over which Victor Hugo presided; and
of all the trying things in my life, perhaps the most so was the speech which I then attempted
in French, with Victor Hugo looking at me.

There were also various educational congresses at the Sorbonne, in which the discussions interested
me much; but sundry receptions at the French Academy were far more attractive.  Of all the
exquisite literary performances I have ever known, the speeches made on those occasions by
M. Charles Blanc, M. Gaston Boissier, and the members who received them were the most entertaining.
To see these witty Frenchmen attacking each other in the most pointed way, yet still observing
all the forms of politeness, and even covering their adversaries with compliments, gives one
new conceptions of human ingenuity.  But whether it is calculated to increase respect for the
main actors is another question.

The formal closing of the exposition was a brilliant pageant.  Various inventors and exhibitors
received gifts and decorations from the hand of the President of the Republic, and, among them,
Dr. Barnard, Story, and myself were given officers' crosses of the Legion of Honor which none
of us has ever thought of wearing; but, alas! my Swiss-American friend who had pleaded so pathetically
his heroic services in ``Dasting de vines und peers'' for France did not receive even the chevalier's
ribbon, and the expression of his disappointment was loud and long.

Nor was he the only disappointed visitor.  It was my fortune one day at the American legation
to observe one difficulty which at the western capitals of Europe has become very trying, and
which may be mentioned to show that an American representative has sometimes to meet.  As I
was sitting with our minister, Governor Noyes of Ohio, there was shown into the room a lady,
very stately, and dressed in the height of fashion.  It was soon evident that she was on the
war-path.  She said, ``Mr. Minister, I have come to ask you why it is that I do not receive
any invitations to balls and receptions given by the cabinet ministers?''  Governor Noyes answered
very politely, ``Mrs. ----, we have placed your name on the list of those whom we would especially
like to have invited, and have every hope that it will receive attention.''  She answered,
``Why is it that you can do so much less than your predecessor did at the last exposition?
THEN I received a large number of invitations; NOW I receive none.''  The minister answered,
``I am very sorry indeed, madam; but there are perhaps twenty or thirty thousand Americans
in Paris; the number of them invited on each occasion cannot exceed fifty or sixty; and the
French authorities are just now giving preference to those who have come from the United States
to take some special part in the exposition as commissioners or exhibitors.''  At this the
lady was very indignant.  She rose and said, ``I will give you no more trouble, Mr. Minister;
but I am going back to America, and shall tell Senator Conkling, who gave me my letter of introduction
to you, that either he has very little influence with you, or you have very little influence
with the French Government.  Good morning!''  And she flounced out of the room.

