His uncle had suggested that he might write to college friends; perhaps they could help him
to something better than the prospect offered by Bronson's office; but George flushed and shook
his head, without explaining. In that small and quietly superior "crowd" of his he had too
emphatically supported the ideal of being rather than doing. He could not appeal to one of
its members now to help him to a job. Besides, they were not precisely the warmest-hearted
crew in the world, and he had long ago dropped the last affectation of a correspondence with
any of them. He was as aloof from any survival of intimacy with his boyhood friends in the
city, and, in truth, had lost track of most of them. "The Friends of the Ace," once bound by
oath to succour one another in peril or poverty, were long ago dispersed; one or two had died;
one or two had gone to live elsewhere; the others were disappeared into the smoky bigness of
the heavy city. Of the brethren, there remained within his present cognizance only his old
enemy, the red-haired Kinney, now married to Janie Sharon, and Charlie Johnson, who, out of
deference to his mother's memory, had passed the Amberson Mansion one day, when George stood
upon the front steps, and, looking in fiercely, had looked away with continued fierceness--his
only token of recognition.

On this last homeward walk of his, when George reached the entrance to Amberson Addition--that
is, when he came to where the entrance had formerly been--he gave a little start, and halted
for a moment to stare. This was the first time he had noticed that the stone pillars, marking
the entrance, had been removed. Then he realized that for a long time he had been conscious
of a queerness about this corner without being aware of what made the difference. National
Avenue met Amberson Boulevard here at an obtuse angle, and the removal of the pillars made
the Boulevard seem a cross-street of no overpowering importance--certainly it did not seem
to be a boulevard!

At the next corner Neptune's Fountain remained, and one could still determine with accuracy
what its designer's intentions had been. It stood in sore need of just one last kindness; and
if the thing had possessed any friends they would have done that doleful shovelling after dark.

George did not let his eyes linger upon the relic; nor did he look steadfastly at the Amberson
Mansion. Massive as the old house was, it managed to look gaunt: its windows stared with the
skull emptiness of all windows in empty houses that are to be lived in no more. Of course the
rowdy boys of the neighbourhood had been at work: many of these haggard windows were broken;
the front door stood ajar, forced open; and idiot salacity, in white chalk, was smeared everywhere
upon the pillars and stonework of the verandas.

George walked by the Mansion hurriedly, and came home to his mother's house for the last time.

Emptiness was there, too, and the closing of the door resounded through bare rooms; for downstairs
there was no furniture in the house except a kitchen table in the dining room, which Fanny
had kept "for dinner," she said, though as she was to cook and serve that meal herself George
had his doubts about her name for it. Upstairs, she had retained her own furniture, and George
had been living in his mother's room, having sent everything from his own to the auction. Isabel's
room was still as it had been, but the furniture would be moved with Fanny's to new quarters
in the morning. Fanny had made plans for her nephew as well as herself; she had found a three-room
"kitchenette apartment" in an apartment house where several old friends of hers had established
themselves--elderly widows of citizens once "prominent" and other retired gentry. People used
their own "kitchenettes" for breakfast and lunch, but there was a table-d'hote arrangement
for dinner on the ground floor; and after dinner bridge was played all evening, an attraction
powerful with Fanny. She had "made all the arrangements," she reported, and nervously appealed
for approval, asking if she hadn't shown herself "pretty practical" in such matters. George
acquiesced absent-mindedly, not thinking of what she said and not realizing to what it committed
him.

He began to realize it now, as he wandered about the dismantled house; he was far from sure
that he was willing to go and live in a "three-room apartment" with Fanny and eat breakfast
and lunch with her (prepared by herself in the "kitchenette") and dinner at the table d'hote
in "such a pretty Colonial dining room" (so Fanny described it) at a little round table they
would have all to themselves in the midst of a dozen little round tables which other relics
of disrupted families would have all to themselves. For the first time, now that the change
was imminent, George began to develop before his mind's eye pictures of what he was in for;
and they appalled him. He decided that such a life verged upon the sheerly unbearable, and
that after all there were some things left that he just couldn't stand. So he made up his mind
to speak to his aunt about it at "dinner," and tell her that he preferred to ask Bronson to
let him put a sofa-bed, a trunk, and a folding rubber bathtub behind a screen in the dark rear
room of the office. George felt that this would be infinitely more tolerable; and he could
eat at restaurants, especially as about all he ever wanted nowadays was coffee.

But at "dinner" he decided to put off telling Fanny of his plan until later: she was so nervous,
and so distressed about the failure of her efforts with sweetbreads and macaroni; and she was
so eager in her talk of how comfortable they would be "by this time to-morrow night." She fluttered
on, her nervousness increasing, saying how "nice" it would be for him, when he came from work
in the evenings, to be among "nice people--people who know who we are," and to have a pleasant
game of bridge with "people who are really old friends of the family?"

When they stopped probing among the scorched fragments she had set forth, George lingered downstairs,
waiting for a better opportunity to introduce his own subject, but when he heard dismaying
sounds from the kitchen he gave up. There was a crash, then a shower of crashes; falling tin
clamoured to be heard above the shattering of porcelain; and over all rose Fanny's wail of
lamentation for the treasures saved from the sale, but now lost forever to the "kitchenette."
Fanny was nervous indeed; so nervous that she could not trust her hands.

For a moment George thought she might have been injured, but, before he reached the kitchen,
he heard her sweeping at the fragments, and turned back. He put off speaking to Fanny until
morning.

Things more insistent than his vague plans for a sofa-bed in Bronson's office had possession
of his mind as he went upstairs, moving his hand slowly along the smooth walnut railing of
the balustrade. Half way to the landing he stopped, turned, and stood looking down at the heavy
doors masking the black emptiness that had been the library. Here he had stood on what he now
knew was the worst day of his life; here he had stood when his mother passed through that doorway,
hand-in-hand with her brother, to learn what her son had done.

He went on more heavily, more slowly; and, more heavily and slowly still, entered Isabel's
room and shut the door. He did not come forth again, and bade Fanny good-night through the
closed door when she stopped outside it later.

"I've put all the lights out, George," she said. "Everything's all right."

"Very well," he called. "Good-night."

She did not go. "I'm sure we're going to enjoy the new little home, George," she said timidly.
"I'll try hard to make things nice for you, and the people really are lovely. You mustn't feel
as if things are altogether gloomy, George. I know everything's going to turn out all right.
You're young and strong and you have a good mind and I'm sure--" she hesitated--"I'm sure your
mother's watching over you, Georgie. Good-night, dear."

"Good-night, Aunt Fanny."

His voice had a strangled sound in spite of him; but she seemed not to notice it, and he heard
her go to her own room and lock herself in with bolt and key against burglars. She had said
the one thing she should not have said just then: "I'm sure your mother's watching over you,
Georgie." She had meant to be kind, but it destroyed his last chance for sleep that night.
He would have slept little if she had not said it, but since she had said it, he could not
sleep at all. For he knew that it was true--if it could be true--and that his mother, if she
still lived in spirit, would be weeping on the other side of the wall of silence, weeping and
seeking for some gate to let her through so that she could come and "watch over him."

He felt that if there were such gates they were surely barred: they were like those awful library
doors downstairs, which had shut her in to begin the suffering to which he had consigned her.

The room was still Isabel's. Nothing had been changed: even the photographs of George, of the
Major, and of "brother George" still stood on her dressing-table, and in a drawer of her desk
was an old picture of Eugene and Lucy, taken together, which George had found, but had slowly
closed away again from sight, not touching it. To-morrow everything would be gone; and he had
heard there was not long to wait before the house itself would be demolished. The very space
which tonight was still Isabel's room would be cut into new shapes by new walls and floors
and ceilings; yet the room would always live, for it could not die out of George's memory.
It would live as long as he did, and it would always be murmurous with a tragic, wistful whispering.

And if space itself can be haunted, as memory is haunted, then some time, when the space that
was Isabel's room came to be made into the small bedrooms and "kitchenettes" already designed
as its destiny, that space might well be haunted and the new occupants come to feel that some
seemingly causeless depression hung about it--a wraith of the passion that filled it throughout
the last night that George Minafer spent there.

Whatever remnants of the old high-handed arrogance were still within him, he did penance for
his deepest sin that night--and it may be that to this day some impressionable, overworked
woman in a "kitchenette," after turning out the light will seem to see a young man kneeling
in the darkness, shaking convulsively, and, with arms outstretched through the wall, clutching
at the covers of a shadowy bed. It may seem to her that she hears the faint cry, over and over:

"Mother, forgive me! God, forgive me!"

Chapter XXXII

At least, it may be claimed for George that his last night in the house where he had been born
was not occupied with his own disheartening future, but with sorrow for what sacrifices his
pride and youth had demanded of others. And early in the morning he came downstairs and tried
to help Fanny make coffee on the kitchen range.

"There was something I wanted to say to you last night, Aunt Fanny," he said, as she finally
discovered that an amber fluid, more like tea than coffee, was as near ready to be taken into
the human system as it would ever be. "I think I'd better do it now."

She set the coffee-pot back upon the stove with a little crash, and, looking at him in a desperate
anxiety, began to twist her dainty apron between her fingers without any consciousness of what
she was doing.

"Why--why--" she stammered; but she knew what he was going to say, and that was why she had
been more and more nervous. "Hadn't--perhaps--perhaps we'd better get the--the things moved
to the little new home first, George. Let's--"

He interrupted quietly, though at her phrase, "the little new home," his pungent impulse was
to utter one loud shout and run. "It was about this new place that I wanted to speak. I've
been thinking it over, and I've decided. I want you to take all the things from mother's room
and use them and keep them for me, and I'm sure the little apartment will be just what you
like; and with the extra bedroom probably you could find some woman friend to come and live
there, and share the expense with you. But I've decided on another arrangement for myself,
and so I'm not going with you. I don't suppose you'll mind much, and I don't see why you should
mind--particularly, that is. I'm not very lively company these days, or any days, for that
matter. I can't imagine you, or any one else, being much attached to me, so--"

He stopped in amazement: no chair had been left in the kitchen, but Fanny gave a despairing
glance around her, in search of one, then sank abruptly, and sat flat upon the floor.

"You're going to leave me in the lurch!" she gasped.

"What on earth--" George sprang to her. "Get up, Aunt Fanny!"

"I can't. I'm too weak. Let me alone, George!" And as he released the wrist he had seized to
help her, she repeated the dismal prophecy which for days she had been matching against her
hopes: "You're going to leave me--in the lurch!"

"Why no, Aunt Fanny!" he protested. "At first I'd have been something of a burden on you. I'm
to get eight dollars a week; about thirty-two a month. The rent's thirty-six dollars a month,
and the table-d'hote dinner runs up to over twenty-two dollars apiece, so with my half of the
rent--eighteen dollars--I'd have less than nothing left out of my salary to pay my share of
the groceries for all the breakfasts and luncheons. You see you'd not only be doing all the
housework and cooking, but you'd be paying more of the expenses than I would."

She stared at him with such a forlorn blankness as he had never seen. "I'd be paying--" she
said feebly. "I'd be paying--"

"Certainly you would. You'd be using more of your money than--"

"My money!" Fanny's chin drooped upon her thin chest, and she laughed miserably. "I've got
twenty-eight dollars. That's all."

"You mean until the interest is due again?"

"I mean that's all," Fanny said. "I mean that's all there is. There won't be any more interest
because there isn't any principal."

"Why, you told--"

She shook her head. "No, I haven't told you anything."

"Then it was Uncle George. He told me you had enough to fall back on. That's just what he said:
'to fall back on.' He said you'd lost more than you should, in the headlight company, but he'd
insisted that you should hold out enough to live on, and you'd very wisely followed his advice."

"I know," she said weakly. "I told him so. He didn't know, or else he'd forgotten, how much
Wilbur's insurance amounted to, and I--oh, it seemed such a sure way to make a real fortune
out of a little--and I thought I could do something for you, George, if you ever came to need
it--and it all looked so bright I just thought I'd put it all in. I did--every cent except
my last interest payment--and it's gone."

"Good Lord!" George began to pace up and down on the worn planks of the bare floor. "Why on
earth did you wait till now to tell such a thing as this?"

"I couldn't tell till I had to," she said piteously. "I couldn't till George Amberson went
away. He couldn't do anything to help, anyhow, and I just didn't want him to talk to me about
it--he's been at me so much about not putting more in than I could afford to lose, and said
he considered he had my--my word I wasn't putting more than that in it. So I thought: What
was the use? What was the use of going over it all with him and having him reproach me, and
probably reproach himself? It wouldn't do any good--not any good on earth." She got out her
lace handkerchief and began to cry. "Nothing does any good, I guess, in this old world. Oh,
how tired of this old world I am! I didn't know what to do. I just tried to go ahead and be
as practical as I could, and arrange some way for us to live. Oh, I knew you didn't want me,
George! You always teased me and berated me whenever you had a chance from the time you were
a little boy--you did so! Later, you've tried to be kinder to me, but you don't want me around--oh,
I can see that much! You don't suppose I want to thrust myself on you, do you? It isn't very
pleasant to be thrusting yourself on a person you know doesn't want you--but I knew you oughtn't
to be left all alone in the world; it isn't good. I knew your mother'd want me to watch over
you and try to have something like a home for you--I know she'd want me to do what I tried
to do!" Fanny's tears were bitter now, and her voice, hoarse and wet, was tragically sincere.
"I tried--I tried to be practical--to look after your interests--to make things as nice for
you as I could--I walked my heels down looking for a place for us to live--I walked and walked
over this town--I didn't ride one block on a street-car--I wouldn't use five cents no matter
how tired I--Oh!" She sobbed uncontrollably. "Oh! and now--you don't want--you want--you want
to leave me in the lurch! You--"

George stopped walking. "In God's name, Aunt Fanny," he said, "quit spreading out your handkerchief
and drying it and then getting it all wet again! I mean stop crying! Do! And for heaven's sake,
get up. Don't sit there with your back against the boiler and--"

"It's not hot," Fanny sniffled. "It's cold; the plumbers disconnected it. I wouldn't mind if
they hadn't. I wouldn't mind if it burned me, George."

"Oh, my Lord!" He went to her, and lifted her. "For God's sake, get up! Come, let's take the
coffee into the other room, and see what's to be done."

He got her to her feet; she leaned upon him, already somewhat comforted, and, with his arm
about her, he conducted her to the dining room and seated her in one of the two kitchen chairs
which had been placed at the rough table. "There!" he said, "get over it!" Then he brought
the coffee-pot, some lumps of sugar in a tin pan, and, finding that all the coffee-cups were
broken, set water glasses upon the table, and poured some of the pale coffee into them. By
this time Fanny's spirits had revived appreciably: she looked up with a plaintive eagerness.
"I had bought all my fall clothes, George," she said; "and I paid every bill I owed. I don't
owe a cent for clothes, George."

"That's good," he said wanly, and he had a moment of physical dizziness that decided him to
sit down quickly. For an instant it seemed to him that he was not Fanny's nephew, but married
to her. He passed his pale hand over his paler forehead. "Well, let's see where we stand,"
he said feebly. "Let's see if we can afford this place you've selected."

Fanny continued to brighten. "I'm sure it's the most practical plan we could possibly have
worked out, George--and it is a comfort to be among nice people. I think we'll both enjoy it,
because the truth is we've been keeping too much to ourselves for a long while. It isn't good
for people."

"I was thinking about the money, Aunt Fanny. You see--"

"I'm sure we can manage it," she interrupted quickly. "There really isn't a cheaper place in
town that we could actually live in and be--" Here she interrupted herself. "Oh! There's one
great economy I forgot to tell you, and it's especially an economy for you, because you're
always too generous about such things: they don't allow any tipping. They have signs that prohibit
it."

"That's good," he said grimly. "But the rent is thirty-six dollars a month; the dinner is twenty-two
and a half for each of us, and we've got to have some provision for other food. We won't need
any clothes for a year, perhaps--"

"Oh, longer!" she exclaimed. "So you see--"

"I see that forty-five and thirty-six make eighty-one," he said. "At the lowest, we need a
hundred dollars a month--and I'm going to make thirty-two."

"I thought of that, George," she said confidently, "and I'm sure it will be all right. You'll
be earning a great deal more than that very soon."

"I don't see any prospect of it--not till I'm admitted to the bar, and that will be two years
at the earliest."

Fanny's confidence was not shaken. "I know you'll be getting on faster than--"

"Faster?" George echoed gravely. "We've got to have more than that to start with."

"Well, there's the six hundred dollars from the sale. Six hundred and twelve dollars it was."

"It isn't six hundred and twelve now," said George. "It's about one hundred and sixty."

Fanny showed a momentary dismay. "Why, how--"

"I lent Uncle George two hundred; I gave fifty apiece to old Sam and those two other old darkies
that worked for grandfather so long, and ten to each of the servants here--"

"And you gave me thirty-six," she said thoughtfully, "for the first month's rent, in advance."

"Did I? I'd forgotten. Well, with about a hundred and sixty in bank and our expenses a hundred
a month, it doesn't seem as if this new place--"

"Still," she interrupted, "we have paid the first month's rent in advance, and it does seem
to be the most practical--"

George rose. "See here, Aunt Fanny," he said decisively. "You stay here and look after the
moving. Old Frank doesn't expect me until afternoon, this first day, but I'll go and see him now."

It was early, and old Frank, just established at his big, flat-topped desk, was surprised when
his prospective assistant and pupil walked in. He was pleased, as well as surprised, however,
and rose, offering a cordial old hand. "The real flare!" he said. "The real flare for the law.
That's right! Couldn't wait till afternoon to begin! I'm delighted that you--"

"I wanted to say--" George began, but his patron cut him off.

"Wait just a minute, my boy. I've prepared a little speech of welcome, and even though you're
five hours ahead of time, I mean to deliver it. First of all, your grandfather was my old war-comrade
and my best client; for years I prospered through my connection with his business, and his
grandson is welcome in my office and to my best efforts in his behalf. But I want to confess,
Georgie, that during your earlier youth I may have had some slight feeling of--well, prejudice,
not altogether in your favour; but whatever slight feeling it was, it began to vanish on that
afternoon, a good while ago, when you stood up to your Aunt Amelia Amberson as you did in the
Major's library, and talked to her as a man and a gentleman should. I saw then what good stuff
was in you--and I always wanted to mention it. If my prejudice hadn't altogether vanished after
that, the last vestiges disappeared during these trying times that have come upon you this
past year, when I have been a witness to the depth of feeling you've shown and your quiet consideration
for your grandfather and for everyone else around you. I just want to add that I think you'll
find an honest pleasure now in industry and frugality that wouldn't have come to you in a more
frivolous career. The law is a jealous mistress and a stern mistress, but a--"

George had stood before him in great and increasing embarrassment; and he was unable to allow
the address to proceed to its conclusion.

"I can't do it!" he burst out. "I can't take her for my mistress."

"What?"

"I've come to tell you, I've got to find something that's quicker. I can't--"

Old Frank got a little red. "Let's sit down," he said. "What's the trouble?"

George told him.

The old gentleman listened sympathetically, only murmuring: "Well, well!" from time to time,
and nodding acquiescence.

"You see she's set her mind on this apartment," George explained. "She's got some old cronies
there, and I guess she's been looking forward to the games of bridge and the kind of harmless
gossip that goes on in such places. Really, it's a life she'd like better than anything else--better
than that she's lived at home, I really believe. It struck me she's just about got to have
it, and after all she could hardly have anything less."

"This comes pretty heavily upon me, you know," said old Frank. "I got her into that headlight
company, and she fooled me about her resources as much as she did your Uncle George. I was
never your father's adviser, if you remember, and when the insurance was turned over to her
some other lawyer arranged it--probably your father's. But it comes pretty heavily on me, and
I feel a certain responsibility."

"Not at all. I'm taking the responsibility."

And George smiled with one corner of his mouth. "She's not your aunt, you know, sir."

"Well, I'm unable to see, even if she's yours, that a young man is morally called upon to give
up a career at the law to provide his aunt with a favourable opportunity to play bridge whist!"

"No," George agreed. "But I haven't begun my 'career at the law' so it can't be said I'm making
any considerable sacrifice. I'll tell you how it is, sir." He flushed, and, looking out of
the streaked and smoky window beside which he was sitting, spoke with difficulty. "I feel as
if--as if perhaps I had one or two pretty important things in my life to make up for. Well,
I can't. I can't make them up to--to whom I would. It's struck me that, as I couldn't, I might
be a little decent to somebody else, perhaps--if I could manage it! I never have been particularly
decent to poor old Aunt Fanny."

"Oh, I don't know: I shouldn't say that. A little youthful teasing--I doubt if she's minded
so much. She felt your father's death terrifically, of course, but it seems to me she's had
a fairly comfortable life-up to now--if she was disposed to take it that way."

"But 'up to now' is the important thing," George said. "Now is now--and you see I can't wait
two years to be admitted to the bar and begin to practice. I've got to start in at something
else that pays from the start, and that's what I've come to you about. I have an idea, you see."

"Well, I'm glad of that!" said old Frank, smiling. "I can't think of anything just at this
minute that pays from the start."

"I only know of one thing, myself."

"What is it?"

George flushed again, but managed to laugh at his own embarrassment. "I suppose I'm about as
ignorant of business as anybody in the world," he said. "But I've heard they pay very high
wages to people in dangerous trades; I've always heard they did, and I'm sure it must be true.
I mean people that handle touchy chemicals or high explosives--men in dynamite factories, or
who take things of that sort about the country in wagons, and shoot oil wells. I thought I'd
see if you couldn't tell me something more about it, or else introduce me to someone who could,
and then I thought I'd see if I couldn't get something of the kind to do as soon as possible.
My nerves are good; I'm muscular, and I've got a steady hand; it seemed to me that this was
about the only line of work in the world that I'm fitted for. I wanted to get started to-day
if I could."

Old Frank gave him a long stare. At first this scrutiny was sharply incredulous; then it was
grave; finally it developed into a threat of overwhelming laughter; a forked vein in his forehead
became more visible and his eyes seemed about to protrude.

