On a mount in this garden is a meridien sonnant (sounding meridian) this is an iron mortar
which holds four pounds of gunpowder, it is loaded every morning, and exactly at noon the sun
discharges the piece by means of a burning glass, so placed that the focus at that moment fires
the powder in the touch-hole. The first meridian that was made of this kind is in the garden
of the Palais Royal, at the top of one of the houses; I could not see it, but it is thus described
in the Paris Guide: "The touch-hole of the cannon is two inches long and half a line (the twentieth
part of an inch) broad, this length is placed in the direction of the meridian line. Two transoms
or cross-staves placed vertically on a horizontal plane, support a lens or burning glass, which,
by their means, is fixed according to the sun's height monthly, so as to cause the focus to
be exactly over the touch-hole at noon. It is said to have been invented by Rousseau." Small
meridians of this sort are sold in the shops; these are dials of about a foot square, engraven
on marble, with a little brass cannon and a lens.

The market for plants and flowers in pots, and for nosegays, is kept on the Quai de la Megisserie,
twice a week, very early in the morning; the following were the most abundant: Nerium double
flowering pomegranate, vinca rosea, (Madagascar periwinkle) prickly lantana, peruvian heliotropium
(turnsole) tuberoses, with very large and numerous single and double flowers, and very great
quantities of common sweet basil, which is much used in cookery.

I visited the apothecaries garden, and also two or three nursery gardens in that neighbourhood,
but found nothing remarkable in them.

There are many gardens in the environs of Paris which are worthy of notice, but I was prevented
from seeing them in consequence of the disturbances hereafter mentioned. In the books which
describe these places, I find the village of Montreuil-sous-le-Bois particularly mentioned
on account of its fertility. In the Tableau de Paris it is said, "Three acres of ground produce
to the proprietor twenty thousand livres annually, (near 800 guineas.) The rent of an acre
is six hundred livres, and the king's tax sixty (together about six and twenty guineas.) The
peaches which are produced here are the finest in the world, and are sometimes sold for a crown
a piece. When a prince has given a splendid entertainment, three hundred Louis d'ors worth
of these fruits have been eaten." It is situated on a hill, just above Vincennes, about three
miles from the fauxbourg Saint Antoine, and is likewise celebrated for its grapes, strawberries,
all sorts of wall fruit, pease, and every kind of esculent vegetables. In the garden called
Mouceaux which belongs to the ci-devant Duke of Orleans; at the extremity of the fauxbourg
du Roule are, it is said, magnificent hot-houses, of which I have no recollection, though I
was in the garden in 1776. There is a description of these gardens in print, with sixteen copper
plates. In the Luxembourg gardens only common annuals were growing, such as marigolds, sun-flowers,
&c. probably self sown; neither were there in the Tuileries gardens, which I afterwards saw,
any remarkable plants.

I bought very large peaches in the markets at 30 sous each, the ordinary ones were at 10 sols.
The melons (which are brought to market in waggons, piled up like turnips in England) were
all of the netted sort, and of so little flavor, that they would not be worth cultivating,
were it not for the sake of cooling the mouth in hot weather; they were sold at 15 or 20 sous
each. Strawberries were still plentiful (second week in August.) Cerneaux, which are the kernel
of green walnuts, were just coming into season.

I had now no opportunity of acquiring any more knowledge of the plants in France, and shall
only add, that I passed the winter of 1783 and 1784, at Marseille and at Hieres; and that besides
oranges, lemons, cedras,[14] pistachios, pomegranates, and a few date palm trees, I found several
species of geranium, myrtles, and cactus opuntia, (Indian fig) growing in the soil, and likewise
the mimosa farnesiana, sweet scented sponge tree, or fragrant acacia, the flowers of which
are there called fleurs de cassier; these flowers, together with those of the jasmine, and
those which fall from the orange and lemon trees, are sold to the perfumers of Provence and
Languedoc.

[Note 14: These trees are planted as close together as possible, hardly eight feet asunder,
and no room is left for any walks, so that these gardens are, properly speaking, orange orchards.
The oranges were then sold at the rate of ten for a penny English.]

Among the small plants, the arum arisarum, (friar's cowl) and the ruscus aculeatus (butcher's
broom) were the most conspicuous, this latter is a pretty ever-green shrub, and the berries
were there as large as those of a common solanum pseudo capsicum, (Pliny's amomum, or winter
cherry) and of a bright scarlet colour, issuing from the middle of the under surface of the
leaves; I never saw any of these berries any where else. Parkinson, in his Theater of Plants,
1640, says, after describing three or four species of this genus, "They scarse beare flower,
much lesse fruite, in our land." Perhaps the berries might ripen in our hot-houses.

Many arbutus, or strawberry-trees, grow here, but they are not equal in size and beauty to
many which I saw both in Portugal and in Ireland.

In 1784, M. J. J. de St. Germain, a nurseryman in the Fauxbourg St. Antoine, published a book
in 8vo of 400 pages, entitled Manuel des Vegetaux, or catalogue in Latin and French, of all
the known plants, trees, and shrubs, in the world, arranged according to the system of Linnæus;
those plants which grow near Paris are particularly specified, and a very copious French index
is added to the Latin one. The author died a few years ago; the plants were sold, and the nursery
ground is at present built upon.

DOGS AND CATS. TWO-HEADED BOY.

LION Dogs and Cats are common in Paris.

The lion-dog greatly resembles a lion in miniature; the hair of the fore part of its body is
long, and curled, and the hinder part short; the nose is short, and the tail is long and tufted
at the extremity; the smallest are little larger than guinea-pigs; these are natives of Malta,
and are the most valuable; those which are produced in France are considerably larger, and
the breed degenerates very soon. Their general colour is white; they are frequently called
Lexicons, which word is derived, not from a dictionary, but from a French compound word of
nearly the same sound, descriptive of one of their properties.

The lion-cat comes originally from Angora, in Syria. It is much larger than the common cat;
its hair is very long, especially about the neck, where it forms a fine ruff, of a silvery
whiteness and silky texture, that on the tail is three or four inches long; these cats frequently
spread their tails on their backs, as squirrels do. The colour is generally white, but sometimes
light brown; they do not catch mice. This beautiful species does not degenerate speedily, and
it appears to thrive better in Paris than in any other part of Europe. The figures of both
these animals are in Buffon's Natural History.

About the Palais Royal persons are frequently found who offer for sale white mice in cages;
these are pretty little animals, their fur is snow white, and their eyes are red and sparkling.
Other persons carried for sale canary-birds, linnets, and two or three other sorts of small
birds, perched on their fingers; these birds had been rendered so tame that they did not attempt
to fly away.

But the greatest curiosity in Natural History which I saw there, was a male child with two
heads and four arms; it was then three months old, the two faces were perfectly alike, the
noses aquiline, the eyes blue, and the countenances pleasing; the two bodies were joined together
at the chest, and the remainder was just like that of a common male child; one navel, one belly,
one penis one anus, and two legs. The two bodies were face to face, so that they could embrace
and kiss each other; in their natural position they formed an angle of 65 degrees, like the
letter Y. I remained above an hour with this child, it's mother and the nurse, and saw it suck
at both breasts at the same time. It was tolerably strong, the skin was very soft, and almost
transparent, the arms and legs were very lean, and the latter were crossed, and appeared incapable
of being extended voluntarily; so that if the child should live two or three years, which I
do not think probable, it is not likely it will ever be able to walk. One head would laugh
while the other cried, one head would sleep whilst the other was awake; the inspiration and
expiration of the breath, in each, was alternate, that is to say, one inspired while the other
expired its breath. There was nothing remarkable in the mother (a peasant's wife) except her
obstinacy in refusing to disencumber these two poor heads from a couple of thick quilted blue
sattin caps with which they had dressed them, and which I endeavoured to convince both her
and the nurse would heat the heads, so as to be the means of shortening the child's life, and
consequently of curtailing the profits arising from this unique exhibition.

To this description an English physician, who likewise saw it, adds, "It must have had two
brains, as motion and sensation were equal, and apparently perfect, in each head and chest,
and in all the four arms. It had two hearts, and two sets of lungs; it had also two passages
into the stomach, but, as was supposed, only one set of abdominal viscera, as the belly was
not larger than that of a common child of that age usually is. The hearts and arteries beat
more strongly than was consistent with a long continuance of health. The action of the arteries
was plainly seen under the skin."

Mr. Buffon, in the Supplement to his Natural History, has given the figure and description
of a monster something similar to this, part of which description I shall give in a note, as
a parallel to that of the living child.[15]

[Note 15: "In 1701 there were born in Hungary two Girls who were joined together by the loins;
they lived above twenty-one years. At seven years old they were shown almost all over Europe;
at nine years of age a priest purchased them, and placed them in a convent at Petersburg, where
they remained till their death, which happened in 1723. An account of them was found among
the papers of the surgeon who attended the convent, and was sent to the Royal Society of London
in 1757. In this account we are told, that one of these twins was called Helen, the other Judith.
Helen grew up and was very handy, Judith was smaller and a little hump-backed. They were joined
together by the reins, and in order to see each other they could turn their heads only. There
was one common anus, and of course there was only one common need of going to stool, but each
had her separate urinary passage, and separate wants, which occasioned quarrels, because when
the weakest was obliged to evacuate, the strongest, who sometimes would not stand still, pulled
her away; they perfectly agreed in every thing else, and appeared to love each other. When
they were seen in front, they did not differ apparently from other women. At six years old
Judith lost the use of her left side by a paralytick stroke; she never was perfectly cured,
and her mind remained feeble and dull; on the contrary, Helen was handsome, intelligent and
even witty. They had the small-pox and the measles at the same time, but all their other sicknesses
indispositions happened to each separately. Judith was subject to a cough and a fever, whereas
Helen was generally in good health. When they had almost attained the age of twenty-two Judith
caught a fever, fell into a lethargy and died. Poor Helen was forced to follow her fate; three
minutes before the death of Judith she fell into an agony, and died nearly at the same time.
When they were dissected it was found, that each had her own entrails perfect, and even, that
each had a separate excretory conduit, which however terminated at the same anus." Linnæus
has likewise described this monster. Many figures of double children of different kinds may
be seen in Licetus de Monstris, 4to. 1665; and in the Medical Miscellanies, which were printed
in Latin at Leipzig, in several quarto volumes, in 1673.]

I went several times to the National Assembly; the Tribunes, or Galleries, (of which there
are three) entered warmly, by applauses and by murmurs and hisses, into the affairs which were
treated of.

Letters are franked by the assembly as far as the frontiers, by being stamped with red printers
ink, Ass. Nationale.

About this time many hundreds of folio volumes of heraldry, and of the registers of the nobility,
were publicly burnt in la Place Vendôme, after due notice had been given of the time and place
by advertisements pasted against the walls. A wicked wag observed, that it was a pity all their
books of divinity, and almost all those of law and physic, were not added to the pile but he
comforted himself with reflecting that ça viendra.

All the coats of arms which formerly decorated the gates of Hôtels are taken away, and even
seals are at present engraven with cyphers only.

The Chevaliers de St. Louis still continue to wear the cross, or the ribband, at the button-hole;
all other orders of knighthood are abolished. No liveries are worn by servants, that badge
of slavery is likewise abolished; and also all corporation companies, as well as every other
monopolizing society; and there are no longer any Royal tobacco nor salt shops.

I went once to the Café de la Regence,[16] with the intention of playing a game at chess, but
I found the chess-men so very little different in colour, that I could not distinguish them
sufficiently to be able to play. It seems it is the fashion for chess-men at present to be
made of box-wood, and all nearly of the same colour. I then went to another coffee-house frequented
by chess-players, and here the matter was worse; they had, in addition to the above-mentioned
fashion, substituted the cavalier, or knight, for the fou, or bishop, and the bishop for the
knight, so that I left them to fight their own battles.

[Note 16: Rousseau used to play at chess here almost every day, which attracted such crowds
of people to see him, that the Lieutenant de Police was obliged to place a sentinel at the door.]

Books of all sorts are printed without any approbation or privilêge. Many are exposed on stalls,
which are very improper for the public eye. One of these was called the Private Life of the
Queen, in two volumes, with obscene prints. The book itself is contemptible and disgusting,
and might as well have been called the Woman of Pleasure. Of books of this sort I saw above
thirty, with plates. Another was on a subject not fit even to be mentioned.

I read a small pamphlet, entitled "le Christ-Roi, or a Parallel of the Sufferings of Lewis
XVI. &c." I can say nothing in favor of it.

I found no new deistical books, the subject has already been exhausted, and every Frenchman
is a philosopher now; it may be necessary here to recollect, that there are gradations in philosophy.

Since the Revolution, monarchs and courts are not quite so respectfully mentioned in books
as they were formerly. The following few examples are taken from Mr. du Laure's Curiosities
of Paris, in two volumes, 1791, third edition. [17] "Louis XIV. has his bust in almost every
street in Paris. After the most trifling reparation of a street it was customary to place his
great wig-block (tête à perruque) there. The saints have never obtained such multiplied statues.
That bully (Fanfaron) as Christina, Queen of Sweden, used to call him, wanted to be adored
even in turn-again alleys (culs-de-Sac.") Courtiers are here termed canaille de la cour (the
rabble of the court;) the former aldermen of Paris (echevins) machines à complimens (complimenting
machines;) and monks des bourreaux encapuchonnés (cowled executioners.)

[Note 17: The same author has likewise published, Historical Singularities of Paris, in a single
volume, and a Description of the Environs, in two volumes, 1790.]

All the following articles of information are taken from the same work: The colossal statue
of St. Christopher is no longer in the church of Notre-Dame; "He was, without doubt, the greatest
Saint Christopher in all France. This ridiculous monument of the taste and devotion of our
ancestors has lately been demolished."

"The court before the porch of this church was considerably enlarged in 1748, and at the same
time a fountain was destroyed, against which leaned an old statue, which had successively been
judged to be that of Esculapius, of Mercury, of a Mayor, and of a Bishop of Paris, and lastly,
that of J.C."

"Entering the street which leads to the Pont-rouge, by the cloisters of this church, the last
house on the right, under the arcades, stands where the canon Fulbert, uncle to Eloisa, lived.
Although it has been several times rebuilt during 600 years, there are still preserved two
stone medallions, in basso-relievo, which are said to be the busts of Abelard and Eloisa."

The number of inhabitants in Paris is computed at one million, one hundred and thirty thousand,
(including one hundred and fifty thousand strangers) two hundred thousand of which are, through
poverty, exempt from the poll-tax, and two hundred thousand others are servants.

In 1790 there were in Paris forty-eight convents of monks, containing nine hundred and nine
men; the amount of their revenue was estimated at two millions, seven hundred and sixty thousand
livres; five abbeys or priories, estimated at six hundred and twelve thousand livres; seventy-four
convents of nuns, containing two thousand, two hundred and ninety-two women, their income two
millions and twenty-eight thousand livres. When to these we add the revenue of the archbishoprick,
and of the fifteen collegiate churches, of one million, six thousand and five hundred livres,
we shall have a total of upwards of seven millions of livres for the former ecclesiastical
revenue in Paris only.[18]

[Note 18: Almost £300,000 sterling, about a tenth part of the Church income of the whole kingdom.
The establishment for the Royal Family, or Civil List, is said to have been forty millions
of livres. Thus the Religion and the Monarch cost one hundred and ten millions of livres annually
(about five millions sterling) the greater part of which sum is now appropriated to other uses.
The convents are converted, or perverted, into secular useful buildings, and their inhabitants
have been suffered to spend the remainder of their lives in their former idleness, or to marry
and mix with society. Annuities have been granted to them from thirty-five to sixty louis per
annum, according to their age.]

There are about six hundred coffee-houses in Paris.

In the saloon of the Louvre every other year is an exhibition of pictures, in the months of
August and September.

The Pont-neuf is one hundred toises in length and twelve in breadth.[19]

[Note 19: 1020 feet by 72. Westminster-bridge is 1220 feet long, but only 44 feet wide.]

The cupola of the Halle au Bled, or corn and flour market, is one hundred and twenty feet in
diameter; it forms a perfect half circle, whose centre is on a level with the cornice, forty
feet from the ground. The vault or dome is composed merely of deal boards, four feet long,
one foot broad and an inch thick.[20]

[Note 20: The inner diameter of the dome of St. Peter's, at Rome, 138 feet, which is the same
size as that of the pantheon in Rome. St. Paul's in London 108. The Invalids in Paris 50.]

Describing the church of St. John of the Minstrels, so called, because it was founded by a
couple of fidlers, in 1330. M. du Laure says, "Among the figures of saints with which the great
door is decorated, one is distinguished who would play very well on the fiddle, if his fiddle-stick
were not broken."

There is a parcel-post as well as a letter penny-post in Paris.

The salary of the executioner was eighteen thousand livres per annum; [21] his office was to
break criminals on the wheel, and to inflict every punishment on them which they were sentenced
to undergo.

[Note 21: £750 sterling; I know not the present salary.]

There are no longer any Espions de Police, or spies, employed by government. "That army of
thieves, of cut-throats, and rascals, kept in pay by the ancient police, was perhaps a necessary
evil in the midst of the general evil of our old administration. A body of rogues and traitors
could be protected by no other administration than such a one as could only subsist by crimes
and perfidy. Those were the odious resources of despotism. Liberty ought to make use of simple
and open means, which justice and morality will never disavow."

There is a school at the point of the isle of St. Louis, in the river Seine, to teach swimming;
persons who chuse to learn in private pay four louis, those who swim among others, half that
sum, or half-crown a lesson; if they are not perfect in that art in a season, (five summer
months) they may attend the following season gratis.

DRESS. INNS.

THE common people are in general much better clothed than they were before the Revolution,
which may be ascribed to their not being so grievously taxed as they were. An English Gentleman
who has gone for many years annually from Calais to Paris, remarks, that they are almost as
well dressed on working days at present, as they were on Sundays and holidays formerly.

All those ornaments which three years ago were worn of silver, are now of gold. All the women
of the lower class, even those who sit behind green-stalls, &c. wear gold ear-rings, with large
drops, some of which cost two or three louis, and necklaces of the same. Many of the men wear
plain gold ear-rings; those worn by officers and other gentlemen are usually as large as a
half-crown piece. Even children of two years old have small gold drops in their ears. The general
dress of the women is white linen or muslin gowns, large caps which cover all their hair, excepting
just a small triangular piece over the forehead, pomatumed, or rather plaistered and powdered,
without any hats: neither do they wear any stays, but only corsets (waistcoats or jumps.) Tight
lacing is not known here, nor yet high and narrow heeled shoes. Because many of the ladies
ci-devant of quality have emigrated or ran away, and that those which remain in Paris, keep
within doors, I saw no face that was painted, excepting on the stage. Most of the men wear
coats made like great-coats, or in other words, long great-coats, without any coat: this in
fine weather and in the middle of summer made them appear to me like invalides. There is hardly
any possibility of distinguishing the rank of either man or woman by their dress at present,
or rather, there are no ranks to distinguish.

The nation in general is much improved in cleanliness, and even in politeness. The French no
longer look on every Englishman as a lord, but as their equal.

The inns on the road from Calais to Paris, are as well furnished, and the beds are as clean
at present as almost any in England. At Flixcourt especially, the beds are remarkably excellent,
the furniture elegant, and there is a profusion of marble and of looking-glasses in this inn.
The plates, dishes, and basons which I saw in cupboards, and on shelves in the kitchen, and
which are not in constant use, were all of silver, to which being added the spoons and forks
of the same metal, of which the landlord possesses a great number; the ladies and gentlemen
who were with me there, going to and returning from Paris, estimated the value at, perhaps,
a thousand pounds sterling. Now, if we allow only half this sum to be the value, it is, notwithstanding,
considerable. Every inn I entered was well supplied with silver spoons, of various sizes, and
with silver four pronged forks; even those petty eating-houses in Paris, which were frequented
by soldiers and sans-culottes.

There are no beggars to be seen about the streets in Paris, and when the chaise stopped for
fresh horses, only two or three old and infirm people surrounded it and solicited charity,
whereas formerly the beggars used to assemble in hundreds. I did not see a single pair of sabôts
(wooden-shoes) in France this time. The table of the peasants is also better supplied than
it was before the revolution.

ASSIGNATS.

EXCEPTING the coins which I purchased at the mint in Paris, I did not see a piece of gold or
silver of any kind; a few brass sols and two sols were sometimes to be found in the coffee-houses,
and likewise Mouneron's tokens.

The most common assignats or bills, are those of five livres, which are printed on sheets;
each sheet containing twenty of such assignats, or a hundred livres; they are cut out occasionally,
when wanted for change. I do not know that there are any of above a thousand livres. The lowest
in value which I saw were of five sols, and these were of parchment. Those of five livres and
upwards, have the king's portrait stamped on them, like that on the coins.

Besides the national assignats, which are current all over France, every town has its own assignats,
of and under, but not above five livres; these are only current in such town and its neighbourhood.

The assignats of and above five livres are printed on white paper, those which are under, are
for the convenience of the lower class of people, of which few can read, printed on different
coloured paper according to their value; for instance, those of ten sols on blue paper, those
of thirty on red, &c. though this method is not correctly adhered to.

I had projected many excursions in the neighbourhood of Paris, which were all put a stop to,
in consequence of the events of the tenth of August, of which I shall give a true and impartial
narrative, carefully avoiding every word which may appear to favour either party, and writing
not as a politician, but as a spectator.

I had written many anecdotes, as well aristocratical as democratical, but as I was unable properly
to authenticate some of them, and that others related to excesses which were inevitable, during
such a time of anarchy, I thought it not proper to prejudice the mind of the public, and have
accordingly expunged them all. I have only recounted facts, and the readers may form their
own opinion.

Some particulars relative to the massacre in August, 1572, are inserted to corroborate the
description of the similar situation of Paris, in August, 1792, though not from similar causes.
The execrable massacre above-mentioned was committed by raging fanatics, cutting the throats
of their defenceless fellow-creatures, merely for difference in religious opinion.

BATTLE AND MASSACRE AT THE TUILERIES.

ON Thursday, the 9th of August, the legislative body completed the general discontent of the
people, (which had been raised the preceding day, by the discharge of every accusation against
la Fayette) by appearing to protract the question relative to the king's déchéance (forfeiture)
at a time when there was not a moment to lose, and by not holding any assembly in the evening.

The fermentation increased every minute, in a very alarming manner. The mayor himself had declared
to the representatives of the nation, that he could not answer for the tranquillity of the
city after midnight. Every body knew that the people intended at that hour to ring the alarm-bell;
and to go to the château of the Tuileries, as it was suspected that the Royal Family intended
to escape to Rouen, and it is said many trunks were found, packed up and ready for taking away,
and that many carriages were seen that afternoon in the court-yard of the Tuileries.

At eight in the evening the generale,(a sort of beat of drum) was heard in all the sections,
the tocsin was likewise rung, (an alarm, by pulling the bells of the churches, so as to cause
the clappers to give redoubled strokes in very quick time. Some bells were struck with large
hammers.)

All the shops were shut, and also most of the great gates of the hotels; lights were placed
in almost every window, and few of the inhabitants retired to their repose: the night passed
however without any other disturbance; many of the members of the National Assembly were sitting
soon after midnight, and the others were expected. Mr. Petion, the mayor, had been sent for
by the king, and was then in the château; the number of members necessary to form a sitting,
being completed, the tribunes (galleries) demanded and obtained a decree to oblige the château
to release its prey, the mayor; he soon after appeared at the bar, and from thence went to
the commune (mansion-house.)

It was now about six o'clock on Friday morning (10th) the people of the fauxbourgs (suburbs)
especially of St. Antoine and St. Marcel, which are parted by the river, assembled together
on the Place de la Bastille, and the crowd was so great that twenty-five persons were squeezed
to death.[22] At seven the streets were filled with-armed citizens, that is to say, with federates
(select persons sent from the provinces to assist at the Federation, or confederacy held last
July 14) from Marseille, from Bretagne, with national guards, and Parisian sans-culottes, (without
breeches, these people have breeches, but this is the name which has been given to the mob.)
The arms consisted of guns, with or without bayonets, pistols, sabres, swords, pikes, knives,
scythes, saws, iron crows, wooden billets, in short of every thing that could be used offensively.

[Note 22: According to the Journal de la seconde legislature, seance de la nuit II Août.]

A party of these met a false patrol of twenty-two men, who, of course, did not know the watch-word.
These were instantaneously put to death, their heads cut off and carried about the streets
on pikes (on promena leurs têtes sur des piques.) This happened in la Place Vendôme; their
bodies were still lying there the next day. Another false patrol, consisting of between two
and three hundred men, with cannon, wandered all night in the neighbourhood of the theatre
français: it is said they were to join a detachment from the battalion of Henri IV. on the
Pont-neuf, to cut the throats of Petion and the Marseillois, who were encamped on the Pont
St. Michel (the next bridge to the Pont-neuf) which caused the then acting parish assemblies
to order an honorary guard of 400 citizens, who were to be answerable for the liberty and the
life of that magistrate, then in the council-chamber. Mandat, commander-general of the National
Guard, had affronted M. Petion, when he came from the château of the Tuileries, to go to the
National Assembly; he was arrested and sent to prison immediately.

