THE MAYFAIR SET

III

CONVERSATIONS

WITH AN

UNCLE

SELECT

CONVERSATIONS

WITH

AN UNCLE

(now extinct)

and two other

reminiscences by

H. G. WELLS

LONDON:

JOHN LANE

NEW YORK

THE MERRIAM COMPANY

1895

Copyrighted in the United States.

All rights reserved.

Second Edition

TO

MY DEAREST

AND BEST FRIEND

R. A. C.

PREFATORY

He was, I remember, short, but by no means conspicuously short, and of a bright, almost juvenile,
complexion, very active in his movements and garrulous--or at least very talkative.  His judgments
were copious and frequent in the old days, and some at least I found entertaining.  At times
his fluency was really remarkable.  He had a low opinion of eminent people--a thing I have
been careful to suppress, and his dissertations had ever an irresponsible gaiety of manner
that may have blinded me to their true want of merit.  That, I say, was in the old days, before
his abrupt extinction, before the cares of this world suddenly sprang upon, and choked him.
I would listen to him, cheerfully, and afterwards I would go away and make articles out of
him for the Pall Mall Gazette, so adding a certain material advantage to my mental and moral
benefit.  But all that has gone now, to my infinite regret; and sorrowing, I have arranged
this unworthy little tribute to his memory, this poor dozen of casual monologues that were
so preserved.  The merits of the monument are his entirely; its faults entirely my own.

CONTENTS

SELECT CONVERSATIONS--

  OF CONVERSATION AND THE ANATOMY OF FASHION

  THE THEORY OF THE PERPETUAL DISCOMFORT OF HUMANITY

  THE USE OF IDEALS

  THE ART OF BEING PHOTOGRAPHED

  BAGSHOT'S MURAL DECORATIONS

  ON SOCIAL MUSIC

  THE JOYS OF BEING ENGAGED

  LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI

  ON A TRICYCLE

  AN UNSUSPECTED MASTERPIECE

  THE GREAT CHANGE

  THE PAINS OF MARRIAGE

A MISUNDERSTOOD ARTIST

THE MAN WITH A NOSE

OF CONVERSATION AND THE ANATOMY OF FASHION

This uncle of mine, you must understand, having attained--by the purest accident--some trifles
of distinction and a certain affluence in South Africa, came over at the earliest opportunity
to London to be photographed and lionised.  He took to fame easily, as one who had long prepared
in secret.  He lurked in my chambers for a week while the new dress suit was a-making--his
old one I really had to remonstrate against--and then we went out to be admired.  During the
week's retirement he secreted quite a wealth of things to say--appropriate remarks on edibles,
on music, on popular books, on conversation, off-hand little things, jotting them down in a
note-book as they came into his mind, for he had a high conception of social intercourse, and
the public expectation.  He was ever a methodical little gentleman, and all these accumulations
that he could not get into his talk, he proposed to put away for the big volume of "Reminiscences"
that was to round off his life.  At last he was a mere conversational firework, crammed with
latent wit and jollity, and ready to blaze and sparkle in fizzing style as soon as the light
of social intercourse should touch him.

But after we had circulated for a week or so, my uncle began to manifest symptoms of distress.
He had not had a chance.  People did not seem to talk at all in his style.  "Where do the literary
people meet together, George?  I am afraid you have chosen your friends ill. Surely those long-haired
serious people who sat round my joke like old cats round a beetle--what is it?--were not the
modern representatives of a salon.  Those abominable wig-makers' eccentricities who talked
journalistic 'shop,' and posed all over that preposterous room with the draperies!  Those hectic
young men who have done nothing except run down everybody!  Don't tell me that is the literary
society of London, George.  Where do they let off wit now, George?  Where do they sparkle?
I want to sparkle.  Badly.  I shall burst, George, if I don't."

Now really, you know, there are no salons now--I suppose we turn all our conversation into
"copy"--or the higher education has eliminated the witty woman--and my uncle became more and
more distressed.  He said a lot of his good things to me, which was sheer waste.  I became
afraid.  I got him all the introductions I could, pushed him into every lion's den I had access
to.  But there was no relief.

"I see what it is, George," said my uncle, "these literary people write themselves out.  They
say nothing for private use.  Their brains are weary when they come into company.  They get
up in the morning fresh and bright, and write, write, write.  Then, when they are jaded, they
condescend to social intercourse.  It is their way of resting.  But why don't they go to bed?
No more clever people for me, George.  Let us try the smart.  Perhaps among them we shall find
smart talking still surviving.  Allons, George!"

That is how my uncle came into collision with fashion, how I came to take him to the Fitz-Brilliants.

Of course you have heard of the Fitz-Brilliants?  If you have not, it is not their fault. 
They are the smartest people in London.  Always hard at work, keeping up to date, are the Fitz-Brilliants.
But my uncle did not appreciate them.  Worse!  They did not appreciate my uncle.  He came to
me again, more pent up than ever, and the thing I had feared happened.  He began to discourse
to me.  It was about Fashion, with a decided reference to the Fitz-Brilliants, and some reflections
upon the alleys of literary ability and genius I had taken him through.

"George," said my uncle, "this Fashion is just brand-new vulgarity. It is merely the regal
side of the medal.  The Highly Fashionable and the Absolutely Vulgar are but two faces of the
common coin of humanity, struck millions at a time.  Spin the thing in the light of wealth,
and I defy you, as it whizzes from the illumination of riches to the shadow of poverty, to
distinguish the one stamp from the other.  You cannot say, here the mode ends, and there the
unspeakable thing, its counterpart, has its beginning.  Their distinction of mere position
has vanished, and they are in seeming as in substance one and indivisible."

My uncle was now fairly under way.

"The fashionable is the foam on the ocean of vulgarity, George, cast up by the waves of that
ocean, and caught by the light of the sun.  It is the vulgar--blossoming.  The flower it is
of that earthly plant, destined hereafter to run to seed, and to beget new groves and thickets,
new jungles, of vulgar things.

"Note, George, how true this is of that common property of the vulgar and fashionable--slang.
The apt phrase falls and applause follows, and then down it goes.  The essential feature of
slang is words misapplied; the essential distinction of a coarse mind from one refined, an
inability to appreciate fine distinctions and minor discords; the essential of the vulgar,
good example misused.  First the fashionable get the apt phrase, and bandy it about in inapt
connections until even the novelty of its discordance has ceased to charm, and thereafter it
sinks down, down.  Fin de siècle and cliché have, for instance, passed downward from the courts
of the fashionable among journalists into the unspeakable depths below.  Soon, if not already,
fin de siècle gin and onions and haddocks will be for sale in the Whitechapel-road, and Harriet
will be calling Billy a "cliché faced swine."  Even so do ostrich feathers begin a career of
glory at the Drawing-Room and the fashionable photographer's, and, after endless re-dyeing,
come to their last pose before a Hampstead camera on a bright Bank Holiday.

"The fashionable and vulgar are after all but the expression of man's gregarious instinct.
Every poor mortal is torn by the conflicting dreads of being 'common-place,' and of being 'eccentric.'
He, and more particularly she, is continually imitating and avoiding imitation, trying to be
singular and yet like other people.  In the exquisitely fashionable and in the entirely vulgar
the sheep-like longing is triumphant, and the revolting individual has disappeared.  The former
is a mechanical vehicle upon which the new 'correct thing' rides forth, to extort the astonishment
of men; the latter a lifeless bier bearing its corrupt and unrecognisable remains away to final
oblivion, amidst universal execration.

"It is curious to notice, George, that there has of late been a fashion in 'originality.' The
commonplace has turned, as it were, upon itself, and vehemently denied its identity.  So that
people who were not eccentric have become rare, and genius, so far as it is a style of hairdressing,
and originality, so far as it is a matter of etiquette or morals, have become the habitual
garments of the commonplace.  The introduction of the word 'bourgeois' as a comminatory epithet
into the English language, by bourgeois writers writing for the bourgeois, will remain a memorial
for ever, for the philological humourist to chuckle over.  If good resolutions could change
the natures of men, opinion has lately set so decidedly against the fashionable and the vulgar
that their continued existence in this world would be very doubtful.  But the leopard cannot
change his spots so easily.  While the stars go on in their courses, until the cooling of the
earth puts an end to the career of life, and the last trace of his ancestral tendency to imitation
disappears as the last man becomes an angel, depend upon it, George, the fashionable will ever
pursue this chimæra of distinguished correctness, and trail the inseparable howling vulgar
in its wake--for ever chased, like a dog with a tin can attached, by the horror of its own tail."

Thus my uncle.  He had said a few of his things.  It is possible his trick of talking like
a disarticulated essay had something to do with his social discomfort.  But anyhow he seemed
all the better for the release.

"Talking of tails, George," he said, "reminds me.  I noticed the men at the Fitz-Brilliants'
had their coats cut--well, I should say, just a half inch shorter here than this of mine. 
Your man is not up to date. I must get the thing altered to-morrow."

THE THEORY OF THE PERPETUAL DISCOMFORT OF HUMANITY

He had been sitting with his feet upon the left jamb of my mantel, admiring the tips of his
shoes in silence for some time.

"George," he said, dropping his cigar-ash thoughtfully into my inkstand, in order, I imagine,
to save my carpet, "have you ever done pioneer work for Humanity?"

"Never," I said.  "How do you get that sort of work?"

"I don't know.  I met a man and a woman, though, the other night, who said they were engaged
in that kind of thing.  It seems to me to be exhausting work, and it makes the hair very untidy.
They do it chiefly with their heads.  It consists, so I understand, of writing stuff in a hurry,
rushing about in cabs, wearing your hair in some unpleasant manner, and holding disorderly
meetings."

"Who are these people?"

"Never heard of them before, though they told me they were quite well known.  The lady asked
me if I had been to Chicago."

I chuckled.  I could imagine no more hideous insult to my uncle.

"I told her that I had been to most places south-eastward and eastward, but never across the
Atlantic.  She informed me that I ought to have gone to Chicago, and that America was a great
country, and I remarked that I had always thought it was so great that one could best appreciate
it at a distance.  Then she asked me what I thought of the condition of the lower classes,
and I told her I was persuaded, from various things I had noticed, that a lot of them were
frightfully hard up.  And with that she started off to show whose fault it was, by the Socratic
method."

"Entertaining?"

"A little.  I did not get all my answers right.  For instance, when she asked, 'Who sends the
members of Parliament to Westminster?' I answered her, 'The governors of the young ones and
the wives of the others.' And when she said that was wrong--I don't remember Socrates ever
saying bluntly that an answer was wrong--I said I supposed she referred to the Evil One.  It
was very dull of me, of course, and it obliged her to dictate the right solution.

"Afterwards she threw over teaching me anything, and explained to me all about her Movements.
At least, I got really interested in her Movements.  One thing she said struck me very much,
though it could hardly be called novel.  It was that the fads of one age were the fashions
of the next; that while the majority of people were engaged in their little present-day chores,
persons like herself are making the laws and preparing the customs for the generation to follow."

"Poor generations to follow!" I said.

"Yes, but there is a lot of truth in it; and do you know there flashed upon me all at once
a great theory, the Theory of the Perpetual Discomfort of Humanity.  Just let me explain it
to you, George," he said, bringing himself round so that his legs hung over the arm of his
chair.  "I think you will see I have made a very great discovery, gone to the root of the whole
of this bother of reform movement, advancement of humanity, and the rest of it."  He sucked
his cigar for a moment. "Each age," he said, "has its own ideals of what constitutes human
happiness."

"A very profound observation," said I.

"Looking down the vista of history, one may generalise and say that we see human beings continually
troubled by the conditions under which they live.  I can think of no time in the world when
there was not some Question or other getting fussed about: at one time episcopal celibacy,
at another time the Pict and Scot problem, and so on.  Always a crumpled rose-leaf.  Hence
reform movements.  Now, reforms move slowly, and by the time these reforms come about, the
people whom they would have made happy, and who fussed and encountered dislike and satire and
snubbing, and burning and boiling in oil, and suchlike discouragements, for the sake of them,
were dead and buried and mere sanitary problems. The new people had new and quite different
needs, and the reforms for which their fathers fought and died more or less uncomfortably,
and got into debt with the printers, so soon as there were printers to get into debt with,
were about as welcome as belated dinner guests.  You take me?  Ireland, when Home Rule comes
home to it, will simply howl with indignation.  And we are living in the embodied discontent
of the eighteenth century.  Adam Smith, Tom Paine, and Priestley would have looked upon this
age and seen that it was good--devilish good; and as you know, George, to us it is--well, a
bit of a nuisance anyhow. However, most people are like myself, and try to be as comfortable
as they can, and no doubt the next generation might do very well with it. And then the pioneer
people begin legislating, agitating, and ordering things differently.  As you know, George,
I am inclined to conservatism.  Constitutionally, I tend to adapt myself to my circumstances.
It seems to me so much easier to fit the man to the age than to fit the age to the man.  Let
us, I say, settle down.  We shall never be able to settle down while they keep altering things.
It may not be a perfect world, but then I am not a perfect man: Some of the imperfections are,
at least, very convenient.  So my theory is this: the people whom the age suits fairly well
don't bother--I don't bother; the others do.  It is these confounded glaring and unshorn anachronisms
that upset everything.  They go about flapping their ideals at you, and writing novels with
a motive, and starting movements and societies, and generally poking one's epoch to rags, until
at last it is worn out and you have to start a new one.  My conception of the progress of humanity
is something after the Wandering Jew pattern. Your average humanity I figure as a comfortable
person like myself, always trying to sit down and put its legs somewhere out of the way, and
being continually stirred up by women in felt hats and short skirts, and haggard men with those
beastly, long, insufficient beards, and soulful eyes, and trumpet-headed creatures, and bogles
with spectacles and bald heads, and nephews who look at watches.  What are you looking at your
watch for, George?  I'm very happy as I am.

"Has it ever occurred to you, George, that one of the most uncomfortable things in the world
must be to outlive your age?  To have all the reforms of your boyish liberalism coming home
to roost, just as you are settling down to the old order....

"Six o'clock, by Jove!  We shall keep them waiting if we don't mind."

THE USE OF IDEALS

"Ideals!" said my uncle; "certainly Ideals.  Of course one must have ideals, else life would
be bare materialism.  Bare fact alone, naked necessity, is impossible barren rock for a soul
to root upon.  Life, indeed, is an unfurnished house, an empty glass in a thirsty land--good
and necessary for foundation, but insufficient for any satisfaction unless we have ideals.
Or, again, ideals are the flesh upon the skeleton of reality, and it cannot live without them.

"It always appears to me," said my uncle, "that the comparison of ideals to furniture is particularly
appropriate.  They are the draperies of the mind, and they hide the nakedness of truth.  Your
fireplace is ugly, your mere necessary shelves and seats but planks and crudity, all your surroundings
so much office furniture, until the skilful hand and the draperies come in.  Then a few cunning
loopings and foldings, and behold softness and delicacy, crudity gone, and life well worth
the living.  So that you cannot value ideals too highly.

"Yet at the same time----"  My uncle became meditative.

"I would not have a man the slave of his ideals.  Hangings make the room comfortable, but,
after all, hangings are hangings.  Perhaps, now and then--of course, I would not suggest continual
inconstancy--a slight change, a little rearrangement, even a partial replacement, might brighten
up the dear old dwelling-place.  An ideal may be clung to too fondly.  When the moth gets into
it, or the dust--did not Carlyle warn us against this, lest they 'accumulate and at last produce
suffocation'?  I am exactly at one with him there.

"And that, as any Cabinet Minister explains every time he opens a public library, is why we
have literature.  Good books are the warehouses of ideals.  Does it strike you your furniture
is sombre, a bit Calvinistic and severe--try a statuette by Pope, or a classical piece out
of Heine.  Too much white and gold for every-day purposes--then the Reverend Laurence Sterne
will oblige.  Urban tone may be corrected by Hardy, and Lowell will give you urbanity.  And,
however well you match and balance them, remember there is a time for ideals, and a time when
they are better out of the way.

"The Philistine of Victorian literature, is a person without ideals, the practical man.  But
just now the fashion is all for the things. Ruskin and Carlyle set it going, and to-day the
demand for ideals exceeds the supply.  And as a result, we meet with innumerable people anxious
to have the correct thing, but a little unsympathetic or inexpert, and those unavoidable people
who do not like the things but feel compelled to get them.  Ideals are not the easiest possessions
to have and manage, and they may even rise to the level of serious inconveniences.  So that
I sometimes wonder these Extension people have not taken up the subject of their management
and use.

"Note, for instance, the folly of bringing ideals too much into the daily life; it is childish,
like a baby insisting on its new toy at meal times, and taking it to bed.  Never use an ideal
as a standard, and avoid any that reflect upon your conduct.  The extremest decorative people
refrain from enamelling their kettles, and my cook though a 'born lady' does not wear her silk
dress in the kitchen.  Ideals are the full dress of the soul.  A business man, for instance,
who let visions of reverend Venetian and Genoese seigniors interfere with his agile City movements--who,
to carry out our comparison, draped his mind with these things--would be uncommonly like a
bowler in a dressing-gown.

"Then an ideal, we are also told, is an elevating influence in life; but unless one is very
careful one may get hoist with one's own petard to a pitifully transitory soar above common
humanity.  The soar itself is not unpleasant, but the sequel is sometimes disagreeable.

"To show how an ideal may trip up an inexpert mortal, take that man Javvers and his wife. 
She also had an ideal husband, which was, indeed, a kind of bigamy, and her constant references
to this creation of hers used to drive poor old Javvers frantic.  It became as objectionable
as if she had been its sorrowing widow, and ultimately it wrecked the happiness of their little
home very completely.

"The seat of ideals, then, in one's mind, should be, as it were, a lounge, over which these
hangings may drape and flap harmlessly; but it may easily become as the bed of Procrustes.
To turn ideals to idols, and to command your whole world to bow down to them, savours of the
folly of Nebuchadnezzar the king.  Let your ideal world be far away from reality, fit it with
rococo furniture, angels and birds-of-paradise, Minnesinger flowers and views of the Delectable
Mountains: and go there occasionally and rest--to return without illusions, without encumbrance,
but with renewed zest, to the sordid world of the actual, the world of every day.  Herein is
the real use of the ideal; all other is fanaticism and folly."

THE ART OF BEING PHOTOGRAPHED

"An album," said my uncle, as he sat and turned over my collection of physiognomy, "is, I think,
the best reading in the world.  You get such sidelights on the owner's heredity, George; distant
cousins caricature his features and point the moral of his nose, and ancestral faces prophesy
his fate.  His friends, moreover, figure the secret of his soul.  But what a lot we have to
learn yet in the art of being photographed, what grotesque and awkward blunders your common
sitters make!  Why, for instance, do men brush their hair so excessively when they go before
the lens?  Your cousin here looks like a cheap chess pawn about the head, whereas as I know
him his head is a thing like a worn-out paint-brush.  Where but in a photograph would you see
a parting so straight as this?  It is unnatural.  You flatten down all a man's character; for
nothing shows that more than the feathers and drakes' tails, the artful artlessness, or revolutionary
tumult of his hair.  Mind you, I am not one of those who would prohibit a man wearing what
he conceives to be his best clothes to the photographer's.  I like to see the little vanity
peeping out--the last moment's folly of a foolish tie, nailed up for a lifetime.  Yet all the
same, people should understand that the camera takes no note of newness, but much of the cut
and fit.  And a man should certainly not go and alter his outline into a feminine softness,
by pouring oil on his troubled mane and plastering it down with a brush and comb.  It is not
tidiness, but hypocrisy.

"We have indeed very much to learn in this matter.  It is a thing that needs teaching, like
deportment or dancing.  Plenty of men I have noticed, who would never do it in real life, commit
the sin of being over-gentlemanly in an album.  Their clothes are even indecently immaculate.
They become, not portraits, but fashion-plates.  I hate a man who is not rumpled and creased
a little, as much as I do a brand new pipe.  And, as a sad example of sin on the other hand,
on the side of carelessness, I have seen renderings of a very august personage indeed, in a
hat--a hat!  It was tilted, and to add to the atrocity, he was holding a cigar.  This I regard
as horrible.  Think! your photograph may go into boudoirs.  Imagine Gladys opening the album
to Ænone; 'Now I will show you him.'  And there you sit, leering at their radiant sweetness,
hat on, and a cigar reeking between your fingers.

"No, George, a man should go very softly to a photographer's, and he should sit before the
camera with reverence in his heart and in his attitude, as if he were in the presence of the
woman he loved."

He turned to Mrs Harborough's portrait, looked at it, hesitated, looked again, and passed on.

"I often think we do not take this business of photography in a sufficiently serious spirit.
Issuing a photograph is like marriage: you can only undo the mischief with infinite woe.  I
know of one man who has an error of youth of this kind on his mind--a fancy-dress costume affair,
Crusader or Templar--of which he is more ashamed than many men would be of the meanest sins.
For sometimes the camera has its mordant moods, and amazes you by its saturnine estimate of
your merits.  This man was perhaps a little out of harmony with the garments of chivalry, and
a trifle complacent and vain at the time.  But the photograph of him is so cynical and contemptuous,
so merciless in its exposure of his element of foolishness, that we may almost fancy the spook
of Carlyle had got mixed up with the chemicals upon the film. Yet it never really dawned upon
him until he had distributed this advertisement of his little weakness far and wide, that the
camera had called him a fool to his face.  I believe he would be glad now to buy them all back
at five pounds a copy.

"This of Minnie Hobson is a work of art.  Bless me, the girl must be thirty-seven or thirty-eight
now, and just look at her!  These photographers have got a trick now, if your face is one of
the long kind, of raising the camera, bending your head forward, and firing down at you.  So
our Minnie becomes quite chubby again.  Then, this thing has been retouched."  My uncle peered
into the photograph.  "It seems to me it is pretty nearly all retouching.  For instance, if
you look at the eye, that high light is not perfectly even; that was touched in on the negative
with a pencil.  Then about the neck of our Minnie I have observed certain bones, just the slightest
indication of her collar-bone, George, but that has disappeared under the retoucher's pencil.
Then the infantile smoothness of her cheek, and the beautifully-rounded outline, is produced
by the retoucher carefully scraping off the surface of the film where the cheekbone projected
with a sharp knife.  There are also in real life little lines between the corner of our Minnie's
mouth and her nostril.  And again, Minnie is one of those people whose dresses never seem to
fit, but this fits like a glove.  These retouchers are like Midas, and they turn all that comes
to their hands to gold; or, like Spring, the flowers come back at their approach.  They reverse
the work of Ithuriel, and restore brightness to the fallen.  They sit at their little desks,
and scratch, scratch, scratch with those delicate pencils of theirs, scratching away age, scratching
away care, making the crooked straight, and the rough smooth.  They are the fairies of photography,
and fill our albums with winsome changelings.  Their ministry anticipates in a little way the
angels who will take us when we die, releasing us from the worn and haggard body of this death,
and showing something of the eternal life and youth that glows within.  Or one might say that
the spirit of the retoucher is the spirit of Love.  It makes plain women beautiful, and common
men heroic.  Her regal fingers touch for the evil of ungainliness, and, behold, we are restored.
Her pencil is like the Queen's sword, and it makes knights out of common men.

"When I have my photograph taken," said my uncle, "I always like to think of the retoucher.
I idealise her; I fancy her with the sweetest eyes I have ever seen, and an expression infinitely
soft and tender. And she looks closely into my face, and her little pencil goes gently and
lovingly over my features.  Tickle, tickle.  In that way, George, I get a really very nice
expression indeed."  My uncle turned to his own presentment, and mused pleasantly for a space.
Then he looked again at Mrs Harborough as if inadvertently, and asked her name.

"I like this newer way of taking your photograph, against a mere grey background; just the
head of you.  One should always beware of the property furniture of the photographer.  In the
seventies they were great at such aids--a pedestal, a cork rustic stile, wide landscape in
the distance, but I think that we are at least getting beyond that now. People in those days
must have been afraid to be left alone before a camera, or they wanted it to seem that they
were taken unawares, quite against their modesty--did not know what the camera was, and were
just looking at it.  A very favourite pose for girls was a graceful droop over a sofa, chin
on elegant hand.  When I was at Dribblebridge--I was a bright young fellow then--I collected
a number of local photographs, ladies chiefly, and the thing was very noticeable when I put
them in a row over my mantleshelf.  The local 'artist' was intensely fond of that pose.  But
fancy the local leader finding her cook drooping over the same sofa as herself!  Nowadays,
I see, you get merely the heads of your girls, with their hair flossed up, intense light from
above, and faces in shadow.  I think it is infinitely better.

What horrible things hands become in a photograph!  I wonder how it is that the hand in a photograph
is always four shades darker than the arm.  Every girl who goes to be photographed in evening
dress should be solemnly warned to keep her hands out of the picture.  They will look as though
she has been enamelling the grate, or toying with a bucket of pitch.  There is something that
sins against my conception of womanly purity in those dark hands."

My uncle shut the album.  "Yes, it is a neglected field of education, an important branch of
deportment altogether forgotten.  Our well-bred ease fails us before the camera; we are lucky
if we merely look stiff and self-conscious.  I should fancy there would be an opening for some
clever woman to teach people how to dress for the occasion and how to sit, what to avoid and
how to avoid it.  As it is, we go in a state of nervous agitation, obsequiously costumed; our
last vestige of self-assertion vanishes before the unwinking Cyclops eye of the instrument,
and we cower at the mercy of the thing and its attendant. They make what they will of us, and
the retoucher simply edits the review with an eye to the market.  So history is falsified before
our faces, and we prepare a lie for our grandchildren.  We fail to stamp our individualities
upon our photographs, and are mere 'dumb-driven cattle' in the matter.  We sin against ourselves
in this neglect, and act against the spirit of the age.  Sooner or later this haphazard treatment
of posterity must come to an end."  He meditated for a moment.  Then, as if pursuing a train
of thought, "That Mrs Harborough is a very pretty woman, George.  Where did you happen to meet
her?"

BAGSHOT'S MURAL DECORATIONS

