THE MEMORIES OF FIFTY YEARS:

Containing

Brief Biographical Notices of Distinguished Americans, and Anecdotes of Remarkable Men;

Interspersed with Scenes and Incidents Occurring during a Long Life of Observation Chiefly
Spent in the Southwest

by

W. H. SPARKS

Philadelphia: Claxton, Remsen & Haffelfinger. Macon Ga.: J. W. Burke & Co. Stereotyped by J.
Fagan & Son. Printed by Moore Bros.

1870

TO

MY BROTHER AND NEPHEW, THE HONORABLE OVID GARTEN SPARKS, AND COLONEL THOMAS HARDEMAN, OF MACON,
GEORGIA.

This Volume is Dedicated

BY THEIR AGED AND AFFECTIONATE RELATIVE, TRUSTING THEY WILL ESTEEM IT, WHEN HE SHALL HAVE PASSED
TO ETERNITY, AS SOME EVIDENCE OF THE AFFECTION BORNE THEM BY

THE AUTHOR.

PREFACE.

In the same week, and within three days of the same date, I received from three Judges of the
Supreme Court, of three States, the request that I would record my remembrances of the men
and things I had known for fifty years. The gentlemen making this request were Joseph Henry
Lumpkin, of Georgia; William L. Sharkey, of Mississippi, and James G. Taliaferro, of Louisiana.

From Judge Sharkey the request was verbal; from the other two it came in long and, to me, cherished
letters. All three have been my intimate friends--Lumpkin from boyhood; the others for nearly
fifty years. Judge Lumpkin has finished his work in time, and gone to his reward. Judges Sharkey
and Taliaferro yet live, both now over seventy years of age. The former has retired from the
busy cares of office, honored, trusted, and beloved; the latter still occupies a seat upon
the Bench of the Supreme Court of Louisiana.

These men have all sustained unreproached reputations, and retained through their long lives
the full confidence of the people of their respective States. I did not feel at liberty to
resist their appeal: I had resided in all three of the States; had known long and intimately
their people; had been extensively acquainted with very many of the most prominent men of the
nation--and in the following pages is my compliance.

I have trusted only to my memory, and to a journal kept for many years, when a younger man
than I am to-day--hastening to the completion of my seventieth year. Doubtless, I have made
many mistakes of minor importance; but few, I trust, as to matters of fact. Of one thing I
am sure: nothing has been wilfully written which can wound the feelings of any.

Many things herein contained may not be of general interest; but none which will not find interested
readers; for while some of the individuals mentioned may not be known to common fame, the incidents
in connection with them deserve to be remembered by thousands who knew them.

These Memories are put down without system, or order, as they have presented themselves, and
have been related in a manner which I have attempted to make entertaining and instructive,
without being prolix or tedious. They will be chiefly interesting to the people of the South;
though much may, and, I hope, will be read by those of the North. Some of my happiest days
have been passed in the North: at Cambridge some of my sons have been educated, and some of
my dearest friends have been Northern men. Despite the strife which has gone far toward making
us in heart a divided people, I have a grateful memory of many whose homes and graves were
and are in New England.

Would that this strife had never been! But it has come, and I cannot forego a parent's natural
feelings when mourning the loss of sons slain in the conflict, or the bitterness arising therefrom
toward those who slew them. Yet, as I forgive, I hope to be forgiven.

There are but few now left who began the journey of life with me. Those of this number who
still sojourn in our native land will find much in these pages familiar to their remembrance,
and some things, the reading of which may revive incidents and persons long forgotten. In the
West, in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Texas, there are many--the descendants of those
who participated in events transpiring fifty years ago--who have listened at the parental hearth
to their recital. To these I send this volume greeting; and if they find something herein to
amuse and call up remembrances of the past, I shall feel gratified.

To the many friends I have in the Southwest, and especially in Louisiana and Mississippi, where
I have sojourned well-nigh fifty years, and many of whom have so often urged upon me the writing
of these Memories, I commit the book, and ask of them, and of all into whose hands it may fall,
a lenient criticism, a kindly recollection, and a generous thought of our past intercourse.
It is an inexorable fate that separates us, and I feel it is forever. This sad thought is alleviated,
however, by the consciousness that the few remaining sands of life are falling at the home
of my birth; and that when the end comes, as very soon it must, I shall be placed to sleep
amid my kindred in the land of my nativity.

THE AUTHOR.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I. REVOLUTIONARY TRADITIONS.

Middle Georgia--Colonel David Love--His Widow--Governor Dunmore-- Colonel Tarleton--Bill Cunningham--Colonel
Fannin--My Grandmother's Bible--Solomon's Maxim Applied--Robertus Love--The Indian Warrior--
Dragon Canoe--A Buxom Lass--General Gates--Marion--Mason L. Weems --Washington--"Billy Crafford"

CHAPTER II. PIONEER LIFE.

Settlement of Middle Georgia--Prowling Indians--Scouts and their Dogs--Classes of Settlers--Prominence
of Virginians--Causes of Distinction--Clearing--Log-Rolling--Frolics--Teachers Cummings and
Duffy--The Schoolmaster's Nose--Flogging--Emigration to Alabama

CHAPTER III. THE GEORGIA COMPANY.

Yazoo Purchase--Governor Matthews--James Jackson--Burning of the Yazoo Act--Development of
Free Government--Constitutional Convention--Slavery: Its Introduction and Effects

CHAPTER IV. POLITICAL DISPUTATIONS.

Baldwin--A Yankee's Political Stability--The Yazoo Question--Party Feuds and Fights--Deaf and
Dumb Ministers--Clay--Jackson--Buchanan-- Calhoun--Cotton and Free Trade--The Clay and Randolph
Duel

CHAPTER V. GEORGIA'S NOBLE SONS.

A Minister of a Day--Purity of Administration--Then and Now--Widow Timberlake--Van Buren's
Letter--Armbrister and Arbuthnot--Old Hickory Settles a Difficulty--A Cause of the Late War--Honored
Dead

CHAPTER VI. POPULAR CHARACTERISTICS.

A Frugal People--Laws and Religion--Father Pierce--Thomas W. Cobb-- Requisites of a Political
Candidate--A Farmer-Lawyer--Southern Humorists

CHAPTER VII. WITS AND FIRE-EATERS.

Judge Dooly--Lawyers and Blacksmiths--John Forsyth--How Juries were Drawn--Gum-Tree vs. Wooden-Leg--Preacher-Politicians--Colonel
Gumming--George McDuffie

CHAPTER VIII. FIFTY YEARS AGO.

Governor Matthews--Indians--Topography of Middle Georgia--A New Country and its Settlers--Beaux
and Belles--Early Training--Jesuit Teachers--A Mother's Influence--The Jews--Homely Sports--The
Cotton Gin--Camp-Meetings

CHAPTER IX. PEDAGOGUES AND DEMAGOGUES.

Education--Colleges--School-Days--William and Mary--A Substitute-- Boarding Around--Rough Diamonds--Caste--George
M. Troup--A Scotch Indian--Alexander McGilvery--The McIntosh Family--Button Gwinnett --General
Taylor--Matthew Talbot--Jesse Mercer--An Exciting Election

CHAPTER X. INDIAN TREATIES AND DIFFICULTIES.

The Creeks--John Quincy Adams--Hopothlayohola--Indian Oratory--Sulphur Springs--Treaties Made
and Broken--An Independent Governor--Colonels John S. McIntosh, David Emanuel Twiggs, and Duncan
Clinch--General Gaines--Christianizing the Indians--Cotton Mather--Expedient and Principle--The
Puritanical Snake

CHAPTER XI. POLITICAL CHANGES.

Aspirants for Congress--A New Organization--Two Parties--A Protective Tariff--United States
Bank--The American System--Internal Improvements --A Galaxy of Stars--A Spartan Mother's Advice--Negro-Dealer--
Quarter-Races--Cock-Pitting--Military Blunders on Both Sides--Abner Green's Daughter--Andrew
Jackson--Gwinn--Poindexter--Ad Interim-- Generals by Nature as Civil Rulers

CHAPTER XII. GOSSIP.

Unrequited Love--Popping the Question--Practical Joking--Satan Let Loose--Rhea, but not Rhea--Teachings
of Nature--H.S. Smith

CHAPTER XIII. INFLUENCE OF CHILDHOOD.

First Impressions--Fortune--Mirabeau B. Lamar--Dr. Alonzo Church--Julius Cæsar--L.Q.C. Lamar--Texan
Independence--Colquitt--Lumpkin--What a Great Man Can Do in One Day--Charles J. Jenkins

CHAPTER XIV. A REVOLUTIONARY VETERAN.

Tapping Reeve--James Gould--Colonel Benjamin Talmadge--The Execution of Major André--Character
of Washington--A Breach of Discipline-- Burr and Hamilton--Margaret Moncrief--Cowles Meade

CHAPTER XV. CHANGE OF GOVERNMENT.

Governor Wolcott--Toleration--Mr. Monroe--Private Life of Washington --Thomas Jefferson--The
Object and Science of Government--Court Etiquette--Nature the Teacher and Guide in all Things

CHAPTER XVI. PARTY PRINCIPLES.

Origin of Parties--Federal and Republican Peculiarities--Jefferson's Principles and Religion--Democracy--Virginia
and Massachusetts Parties--War with France--Sedition Law--Lyman Beecher--The Almighty Dollar--"Hail
Columbia" and "Yankee Doodle"

CHAPTER XVII. CONGRESS IN ITS BRIGHTEST DAYS.

Missouri Compromise--John Randolph's Juba--Mr. Macon--Holmes and Crawford--Mr. Clay's Influence--James
Barbour--Philip P. Barbour-- Mr. Pinkney--Mr. Beecher, of Ohio--"Cuckoo, Cuckoo!"--National
Roads --William Lowndes--William Roscoe--Duke of Argyle--Louis McLean-- Whig and Democratic Parties

CHAPTER XVIII. FRENCH AND SPANISH TERRITORY.

Settlers on the Tombigbee and Mississippi Rivers--La Salle--Natchez --Family Apportionment--The
Hill Country--Hospitality--Benefit of African Slavery--Capacity of the Negro--His Future

CHAPTER XIX. THE NATCHEZ TRADITIONS.

Natchez--Mizezibbee; or, The Parent of Many Waters--Indian Mounds-- The Child of the Sun--Treatment
of the Females--Poetic Marriages-- Unchaste Maids and Pure Wives--Walking Archives--The Profane
Fire-- Alahoplechia--Oyelape--The Chief with a Beard

CHAPTER XX. EXPLORATION OF THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY.

Chicago--Crying Indians--Chickasaws--De Soto--Feast of the Great Sun--Cane-Knives--Love-stricken
Indian Maiden--Rape of the Natchez --Man's Will--Subjugation of the Waters--The Black Man's
Mission--Its Decade

CHAPTER XXI. TWO STRANGE BEINGS.

Romance of Western Life--Met by Chance--Parting on the Levee--Meeting at the Sick-Bed--Convalescent--Love-Making--"Home,
Sweet Home"-- Theological Discussion--Uncle Tony--Wild, yet Gentle--An Odd Family--The Adventurer
Speculates

CHAPTER XXII. THE ROMANCE CONTINUED.

Father Confessor--Open Confession--The Unread Will--Old Tony's Narrative--Squirrel Shooting--The
Farewell Unsaid--Brothers-in-Law-- Farewell Indeed

CHAPTER XXIII. WHEN SUCCESSFUL, RIGHT; WHEN NOT, WRONG.

Territorial Mississippi--Wilkinson--Adams--Jefferson--Warren--Claiborne--Union of the Factions--Colonel
Wood--Chew--David Hunt--Joseph Dunbar--Society of Western Mississippi--Pop Visits of a Week
to Tea--The Horse "Tom" and his Rider--Our Grandfathers' Days--An Emigrant's Outfit--My Share--George
Poindexter--A Sudden Opening of a Court of Justice--The Caldwell and Gwinn Duel--Jackson's
Opposition to the Governor of Mississippi

CHAPTER XXIV. THE SILVER-TONGUED ORATOR.

John A. Quitman--Robert J. Walker--Robert H. Adams--From a Cooper-Shop to the United States
Senate--Bank Monopoly--Natchez Fencibles--Scott in Mexico--Thomas Hall--Sargent S. Prentiss--Vicksburg--Single-speech
Hamilton--God-inspired Oratory--Drunk by Absorption--Killing a Tailor--Defence of Wilkinson

CHAPTER XXV. A FINANCIAL CRASH.

A Wonderful Memory--A Nation Without Debt--Crushing the National Bank--Rise of State Banks--Inflated
Currency--Grand Flare-up--Take Care of Yourself--Commencing Anew--Failing to Reach an Obtuse
Heart--King Alcohol does his Work--Prentiss and Foote--Love Me, Love my Dog--A Noble Spirit
Overcome--Charity Covereth a Multitude of Sins

CHAPTER XXVI. ACADIAN FRENCH SETTLERS.

Sugar vs. Cotton--Acadia--A Specimen of Mississippi French Life-- Bayou La Fourche--The Great
Flood--Theological Arbitration--A Rustic Ball--Old-Fashioned Weddings--Creoles and Quadroons--The
Planter--Negro Servants--Gauls and Anglo-Normans--Antagonism of Races

CHAPTER XXVII. ABOLITION OF LICENSED GAMBLING.

Baton Rouge--Florida Parishes--Dissatisfaction--Where there's a Will, there's a Way--Storming
a Fort on Horseback--Annexation at the Point of the Poker--Raphignac and Larry Moore--Fighting
the "Tiger"--Carrying a Practical Joke too Far--A Silver Tea-Set

CHAPTER XXVIII. THREE GREAT JUDGES.

A Speech in Two Languages--Long Sessions--Matthews, Martin, and Porter --A Singular Will--A
Scion of '98--Five Hundred Dollars for a Little Fun with the Dogs--Cancelling a Note

CHAPTER XXIX. AMERICANIZING LOUISIANA.

Powers of Louisiana Courts--Governor William C.C. Claiborne--Cruel O'Reilly--Lefrenier and
Noyan Executed--A Dutch Justice--Edward Livingston--A Caricature of General Jackson--Stephen
Mazereau--A Speech in Three Languages--John R. Grymes--Settling a Ca. Sa.--Batture Property--A
Hundred Thousand Dollar Fee

CHAPTER XXX. DIVISION OF NEW ORLEANS INTO MUNICIPALITIES.

American Hotel--Introduction of Steamboats--Faubourg St. Mary--Canal Street--St. Charles Hotel--Samuel
J. Peters--James H. Caldwell--Fathers of the Municipality--Bernard Marigny--An Ass--A.B. Roman

CHAPTER XXXI. BLOWING UP THE LIONESS.

Doctor Clapp--Views and Opinions--Universal Destiny--Alexander Barrow --E.D. White--Cross-Breed,
Irish Renegade, and Acadian--A Heroic Woman--The Ginseng Trade--I-I-I'll D-d-die F-f-first

CHAPTER XXXII. GRADUAL EXTINCTION OF THE RED MAN.

Line Creek Fifty Years Ago--Hopothlayohola--McIntosh--Undying Hatred--A Big Pow-wow--Massacre
of the McIntoshes--Nehemathla--Onchees--The Last of the Race--A Brave Warrior--A White Man's
Friendship--The Death-Song--Tuskega; or, Jim's Boy

CHAPTER XXXIII. FUN, FACT, AND FANCY.

Eugenius Nesbitt--Washington Poe--Yelverton P. King--Preparing to Receive the Court--Walton
Tavern, in Lexington--Billy Springer, of Sparta--Freeman Walker--An Augusta Lawyer--A Georgia
Major--Major Walker's Bed--Uncle Ned--Discharging a Hog on His Own Recognizance --Morning Admonition
and Evening Counsel--A Mother's Request-- Invocation--Conclusion

THE MEMORIES OF FIFTY YEARS.

My earliest memories are connected with the first settlement of Middle Georgia, where I was
born. My grandparents on the mother's side, were natives of North Carolina; and, I believe,
of Anson county. My grandfather, Colonel David Love, was an active partisan officer in the
service of the Continental Congress. He died before I was born; but my grandmother lived until
I was seventeen years of age. As her oldest grandchild, I spent much of my time, in early boyhood,
at her home near the head of Shoulderbone Creek in the county of Green. She was a little, fussy,
Irish woman, a Presbyterian in religion, and a very strict observer of all the duties imposed
upon her sect, especially in keeping holy the Sabbath day. All her children were grown up,
married, and, in the language of the time, "gone away." She was in truth a lone woman, busying
herself in household and farming affairs. With a few negroes, and a miserably poor piece of
land, she struggled in her widowhood with fortune, and contrived, with North Carolina frugality
and industry, not only to make a decent living, but to lay up something for a rainy day, as
she phrases it. In her visits to her fields and garden, I ran by her side and listened to stories
of Tory atrocities and Whig suffering in North Carolina during the Revolution. The infamous
Governor Dunmore, the cruel Colonel Tarleton, and the murderous and thieving Bill Cunningham
and Colonel Fannin, both Tories, and the latter natives to the soil, were presented graphically
to me in their most hateful forms. In truth, before I had attained my seventh year, I was familiar
with the history of the partisan warfare waged between Whig and Tory in North and South Carolina,
from 1776 to 1782, from this good but garrulous old lady. I am not so certain she was good:
she had a temper of her own, and a will and a way of her own; and was good-natured only when
permitted this way without opposition, or cross. Perhaps I retain a more vivid memory of these
peculiar traits than of any others characterizing her. She permitted no contradiction, and
exacted implicit obedience, and this was well understood by everything about her. She was strict
and exacting, and had learned from Solomon that to "spare the rod was to spoil the child."
She read the Bible only; and it was the only book in the house. This Bible is still in existence;
it was brought by my grandfather from Europe, and is now covered with the skin of a fish which
he harpooned on his return voyage, appropriating the skin to this purpose in 1750. She had
use for no other book, not even for an almanac, for at any moment she could tell the day of
the month, the phase of the moon and the day General Washington captured Cornwallis; as also
the day on which Washington died. Her reverence for the memory of my grandfather was idolatry.
His cane hung with his hat just where he had habitually placed them during his latter days.
His saddle and great sea-chest were preserved with equal care, and remained undisturbed from
1798 to 1817, precisely as he left them. I ventured to remove the cane upon one occasion; and,
with a little negro or two, was merrily riding it around in the great lumber-room of the house,
where scarcely any one ever went, when she came in and caught me. The pear-tree sprouts were
immediately put into requisition, and the whole party most mercilessly thrashed. From that
day forward the old buckhorn-headed cane was an awful reminder of my sufferings. She was careful
not to injure the clothing of her victims, and made her appeals to the unshielded cuticle,
and with a heavy hand for a small woman.

It was an ill-fashioned but powerfully-built house, and remains a monument to this day of sound
timber and faithful work, braving time and the storm for eighty-two years. It was the first
framed house built in the county, and I am sure, upon the poorest spot of land within fifty
miles of where it stands. Here was born my uncle, Robertus Love, who was the first white child
born in the State west of the Ogeechee River.

Colonel Love, my grandfather, was eccentric in many of his opinions, and was a Puritan in religious
faith. Oliver Cromwell was his model of a statesman, and Praise-God Barebones his type of a
Christian. While he was a boy his father married a second time, and, as is very frequently
the case, there was no harmony between the step-mother and step-son. Their jarrings soon ripened
into open war. To avoid expulsion from the paternal roof he "bundled and went." Nor did he
rest until, in the heart of the Cherokee nation of Indians, he found a home with Dragon Canoe,
then the principal warrior of the nation, who resided in a valley amid the mountains, and which
is now Habersham County. With this chief, who at the time was young, he remained some four
years, pursuing the chase for pleasure and profit. Thus accumulating a large quantity of peltries,
he carried them on pack-horses to Charleston, and thence went with them to Europe. After disposing
of his furs, which proved profitable, he wandered on foot about Europe for some eighteen months,
and then, returning to London, he embarked for America.

During all this time he had not heard from his family. Arriving at Charleston he made his way
back to the neighborhood of his birth. He was ferried across the Pedee river by a buxom lass,
who captured his heart. Finding his father dead, he gathered up the little patrimony left him
in his father's will, should he ever return to claim it: he then returned to the neighborhood
of his sweetheart of the ferry; and, being a fine-looking man of six feet three inches, with
great blue eyes, round and liquid; and, Othello-like, telling well the story of his adventures,
he very soon beguiled the maiden's heart, and they were made one. About this time came off
the battles of Concord and Lexington, inaugurating the Revolution. It was not, however, until
after the declaration of independence, that he threw aside the plough and shouldered the musket
for American independence.

That portion of North Carolina in which he resided had been mainly peopled by emigrants from
Scotland. The war progressing into the South, found nearly all of these faithful in their allegiance
to Britain. The population of English descent, in the main, espoused the cause of the colonies.
With his neighbors Love was a favorite; he was very fleet in a foot-race, had remarkable strength;
but, above all, was sagacious and strong of will. Such qualities, always appreciated by a rude
people, at that particular juncture brought their possessor prominently forward, and he was
chosen captain of a company composed almost to a man of his personal friends and acquaintances.
Uniting himself with the regiment of Colonel Lynch, just then organized, and which was ordered
to join the North Carolina line, they marched at once to join General Gates, then commanding
in the South. Under the command of this unfortunate general he remained until after the battle
of Camden. Here Gates experienced a most disastrous defeat, and the whole country was surrendered
to the British forces.

South Carolina and North Carolina, especially their southern portions, were entirely overrun
by the enemy, who armed the Tories and turned them loose to ravage the country. Gates's army
was disorganized, and most of those who composed it from the Carolinas returned to their homes.
Between these and the Scotch Tories, as the Loyalists were termed, there was a continual partisan
strife, each party resorting to the most cruel murders, burning and destroying the homes and
the property of each other. Partisan bands were organized by each, and under desperate leaders
did desperate deeds. It was then and there that Marion and Fanning became conspicuous, and
were respectively the terror of Whigs and Tories.

There were numerous others of like character, though less efficient and less conspicuous. The
exploits of such bands are deemed beneath the dignity of history, and now only live in the
memories of those who received them traditionally from the actors, their associates or descendants.
Those acts constitute mainly the tragic horrors of war, and evidence the merciless inhumanity
of enraged men, unrestrained by civil or moral law. Injuries he deems wanton prompt the passions
of his nature to revenge, and he hastens to retaliate upon his enemy, with increased horrors,
their savage brutalities.

As the leader of a small band of neighbors who had united for protection and revenge, Colonel
Love became conspicuous for his courage and cruelty. It was impossible for these, his associates,
as for their Tory neighbors and enemies, to remain at their homes, or even to visit them, except
at night, and then most stealthily. The country abounds with swamps more or less dense and
irreclaimable, which must always remain a hiding-place for the unfortunate or desperate. In
these the little bands by day were concealed, issuing forth at night to seek for food or spoils.
Their families were often made the victims of revenge; and instances were numerous where feeble
women and little children were slain in cold blood by neighbors long and familiarly known to
each other, in retaliation of like atrocities perpetrated by their husbands, sons, or brothers.

It was a favorite pastime with my grandmother, when the morning's work was done, to uncover
her flax-wheel, seat herself, and call me to sit by her, and, after my childish manner, read
to her from the "Life of General Francis Marion," by Mason L. Weems, the graphic account of
the general's exploits, by the venerable parson. There was not a story in the book that she
did not know, almost as a party concerned, and she would ply her work of flax-spinning while
she gave me close and intense attention. At times, when the historian was at fault in his facts--and,
to say the truth, that was more frequently the case than comports with veracious history--she
would cease the impelling motion of her foot upon the pedal of her little wheel, drop her thread,
and, gently arresting the fly of her spool, she would lift her iron-framed spectacles, and
with great gravity say: "Read that again. Ah! it is not as it happened, your grandfather was
in that fight, and I will tell you how it was." This was so frequently the case, that now,
when more than sixty years have flown, I am at a loss to know, if the knowledge of most of
these facts which tenaciously clings to my memory, was originally derived from Weems's book,
or my grandmother's narrations. In these forays and conflicts, whenever my grandfather was
a party, her information was derived from him and his associates, and of course was deemed
by her authentic; and whenever these differed from the historian's narrative, his, of consequence,
was untrue. Finally, Weems, upon one of his book-selling excursions, which simply meant disposing
of his own writings, came through her neighborhood, and with the gravity of age, left verbally
his own biography with Mrs. McJoy, a neighbor; this made him, as he phrased it, General Washington's
preacher. He was never after assailed as a lying author: but whenever his narrative was opposed
to her memory, she had the excuse for him, that his informant had deceived him.

To have seen General Washington, even without having held the holy office of his preacher,
sanctified in her estimation any and every one. She had seen him, and it was the especial glory
of her life. Yes, she had seen him, and remembered minutely his eyes, his hair, his mouth and
his hands--and even his black horse, with a star in his face, and his one white foot and long,
sweeping tail. So often did I listen to the story, that in after boyhood I came to believe
I had seen him also, though his death occurred twenty days before I was born. My dear, good
mother has often told me that but for an attack of ague, which kept the venerable lady from
our home for a month or more, I should have been honored with bearing the old hero's name through
life. So intent was she in this particular, that she never liked my being named after Billy
Crafford (for so she pronounced his name) for whom the partiality of my father caused him to
name me. Few remain to remember the horrors of this partisan warfare. The very traditions are
being obliterated by those of the recent civil war, so rife with scenes and deeds sufficiently
horrible for the appetite of the curious in crime and cruelty.

The early settlement of Middle Georgia was principally by emigrants from Virginia and North
Carolina. These were a rough, poor, but honest people, with little or no fortunes, and who
were quite as limited in education as in fortune. Their necessities made them industrious and
frugal. Lands were procured at the expense of surveying; the soil was virgin and productive;
rude cabins, built of poles, constituted not only their dwellings but every necessary outbuilding.
Those who first ventured beyond the Ogeechee generally selected some spot where a good spring
of water was found, not overlooked by an elevation so close as to afford an opportunity to
the Indians, then very troublesome, to fire into the little stockade forts erected around these
springs for their security against the secret attacks of the prowling and merciless Creeks
and Cherokees.

Usually several families united in building and living in these forts. As soon as this protection
was completed, the work of clearing away the surrounding forest was commenced, that the land
should afford a field for cultivation. While thus employed, sentinels were stationed at such
points in the neighborhood as afforded the best opportunity for descrying the approach of Indians,
and the watch was most careful. When those employed in hunting (for every community had its
hunters) discovered, or thought they had discovered signs of the presence of the savages, scouts
were immediately sent out to discover if they were lurking anywhere in the neighborhood. This
was the most arduous and perilous duty of the pioneers, and not unfrequently the scout, or
spy as he was usually termed, went to return no more. When seed-time came, corn, a small patch
of cotton and another of flax were planted, and cultivation continued under the same surveillance.

The dog, always the companion of man, was carefully trained to search for the prowling Indians;
and by daylight every morning the clearing, as the open lands were universally termed; was
passed around by a cautious scout, always preceded by his dogs, who seemed as conscious of
their duty and as faithful in its discharge as was their master. If he reported no Indians,
the work of cultivation commenced, and the sentinels repaired to their posts. These were usually
changed whenever the slightest sign of Indians anywhere in the country could be found, lest
their posts might have been found and marked, and ambushed at night. Yet, despite this prudent
caution, many a sentinel perished at his post. The unerring arrow gave no alarm, and the sentinel
slain, opened an approach for the savages; and not unfrequently parties at labor were thus
surprised and shot in full view of those in the fort.

Occasionally an emigrant brought with him a slave or two: these were rich, and invariably were
the leading men in the communities. Those from Virginia were more frequently possessed of this
species of property than those from the Carolinas, and, coming from an older country, had generally
enjoyed better opportunities and were more cultivated. A common necessity harmonized all, and
the state of society was a pure democracy. These communities were usually from twenty to fifty
miles apart, and about them a nucleus was formed, inviting those who sought the new country
for a home to locate in the immediate vicinity. Security and the enjoyment of social intercourse
were more frequently the incentives for these selections than the fertility of the soil or
other advantages. One peculiarity was observable, which their descendants, in their emigration
to the West, continue to this day to practise: they usually came due west from their former
homes, and were sure to select, as nearly as possible, a new one in the same parallel, and
with surroundings as nearly like those they had left as possible. With the North Carolinian,
good spring-water, and pine-knots for his fire, were the sine qua non. These secured, he went
to work with the assiduity and perseverance of a beaver to build his house and open his fields.
The Virginians, less particular, but more ambitious, sought the best lands for grain and tobacco;
consequently they were more diffused, and their improvements, from their superior wealth, were
more imposing.

