But let us turn to Professor Wendell's opinion of Milton and quote his language: "With Milton,
the case is wonderfully different. Read Scripture, if you will, and then turn to your 'Paradise
Lost.' Turn then to whatever poet you chance to love of Greek antiquity or of Roman. Turn to
Dante himself.... Then turn back to Milton. Different you will find him, no doubt, in the austere
isolation of his masterful and deliberate Puritanism and learning; but that difference does
not make him irrevocably lesser. Rather you will grow more and more to feel how wonderful his
power proves. Almost alone among poets, he could take the things for which he had need from
the masters themselves, as confidently as any of the masters had taken such matters from lesser
men; and he could so place these spoils of masterpieces in his own work that they seem as truly
and as admirably part of it as they seemed of the other great works where he found them." "'Paradise
Lost' transcends all traces of its lesser origins, until those lesser origins become a matter
of mere curiosity."

And so it appears that Professer Wendell applies one definition of the word "imitation" to
Shakspere, another to Milton. If Shakspere found chronicle plays in the theatre, and transformed
them into the most vivid and truthful history ever written, "those lesser origins become a
matter of mere curiosity," and the charge of imitation fails. If the "Comedy of Errors" is
an "imitation" of Plautus, "Paradise Lost" is an "imitation" of Moses. If "Paradise Lost" is
not an "imitation" but "something utterly apart," "something almost superhuman ... in its grand
solitude"; if Milton has "so placed the spoils of masterpieces in his own work that they seem
truly and admirably a part of it," then "Love's Labour's Lost" is not an "imitation" of Lilly,
nor "Henry VI." of Greene or Peele or Marlowe, nor "Titus Andronicus" of Kyd.

But this indictment against Shakspere is made more definite in form, and may therefore be more
conclusively answered. This is the charge as stated by Professor Wendell:

"A young American scholar whose name has hardly yet crossed the Atlantic,--Professor Ashley
Horace Thorndike,--has lately made some studies in dramatic chronology which go far to confirm
the unromantic conjecture that to the end Shakspere remained imitative and little else. Professor
Thorndike, for example, has shown with convincing probability that certain old plays concerning
Robin Hood proved popular; a little later, Shakspere produced the woods and outlaws of 'As
You Like It.' The question is one of pure chronology; and pure chronology has convinced me,
for one, that the forest scenes of Arden were written to fit available costumes and properties....
Again, Professor Thorndike has shown that Roman subjects grew popular, and tragedies of revenge
such as Marston's; a little later, Shakspere wrote 'Julius Cæsar' and 'Hamlet.' With much more
elaboration Professor Thorndike has virtually proved that the romances of Beaumont and Fletcher--different
both in motive and in style from any popular plays which had preceded them--were conspicuously
successful on the London stage before Shakspere began to write romances. It seems likely, therefore,
that 'Cymbeline,' which less careful chronology had conjectured to be a model for Beaumont
and Fletcher, was in fact imitated from models which they had made. In other words, Professor
Thorndike has shown that one may account for all the changes in Shakspere, after 1600, by merely
assuming that the most skilful and instinctive imitator among the early Elizabethan dramatists,
remained to the end an instinctively imitative follower of fashions set by others."

Again, he says: "The likeness of their work to the romances of Shakspere--in subject, in structure,
in peculiarities of verse,--has been often remarked; and they have consequently been supposed
to have begun by skilful superficial imitation of his spiritually ripest phase. The question
is one of chronology not yet fixed in detail; but as I have told you already, the studies of
my friend Professor Thorndike have virtually proved that several of their plays must have been
in existence decidedly before the dates commonly assigned to 'Cymbeline,' the 'Tempest' or
the 'Winter's Tale.' If he is right,--and I believe him so,--the relation commonly thought
to have existed between them and Shakspere is precisely reversed. Shakspere was the imitator,
not they; indeed, as we have seen, he was from the beginning an imitator, not an inventor.
And here his imitations are not in all respects better than his models."

Here the grave accusation is distinctly made that Shakspere imitated Beaumont and Fletcher,
and to support it, reference is made to one man only, Professor Thorndike, his pupil and disciple.

And so, in this new case, we have two judges, and the curious fact that the instructor refers
to the student and the student to the instructor as the sole authority for the soundness of
the decision.

The "Introduction" of Professor Thorndike to his "Influence of Beaumont and Fletcher on Shakspere"
sufficiently shows the animus of his essay: he cites the libel of Greene, and intimates that
it is an accusation of plagiarism which we have rejected, but which "contains an element of
truth worth keeping in mind"; he repeats in positive words the charge of Professor Wendell
that Shakspere began by "imitating or revamping the work of others"; that "Titus Andronicus"
and "Henry VI.," "so far as they are his, are certainly imitative of other plays of the time,"
and adds that "Richard II." and "Richard III." show the influence of Marlowe's tragedies, and
"Love's Labour's Lost" of Lilly's comedies.

We have sufficiently answered as to "Henry VI.," "Titus Andronicus," and "Love's Labour's Lost."
There is no proof offered as to the histories of the two Richards. The assertion is made without
authority or example, without even the application of the usual "verse-tests" by which authorship
is so conveniently determined.

Having repeated the erroneous and unsupported statements of his master, Professor Thorndike
announces that after these early "imitations" little attention has been given to Shakspere's
subsequent indebtedness to his contemporaries, for the reason that "to most students it has
seemed absurd," while to him it is clear that "Hamlet" and "Lear" "contain traces of the 'tragedy
of blood type'"; that "a closer adherence to current forms can be seen in the relation between
the 'Merchant of Venice' and the 'Jew of Malta,'" "or in the many points of similarity between
'Hamlet' and the ... tragedies dealing with the theme of blood revenge," and that "characters
... are often clearly developments of types familiar on the stage," "as for example, Iago is
a development of the conventional stage villain." He is certainly correct in saying that to
most students these assumptions "seem absurd." Let us examine them briefly, for the purpose
of learning whether they deserve any more serious adjective.

Marlowe's "Jew of Malta" appeared about 1589. As the author announces in
the prologue, it is based upon Machiavel's theory of life--pure
selfishness. The Jew makes war upon all the world, for the gratification
of his passion for revenge; he poisons his daughter "and the entire
nunnery in which she had taken refuge"; he kills, he betrays, he
prepares a burning caldron for a whole garrison,--"tragedy such as this
is simply revolting. The characters of Barabas and of his servant, and
the motives by which they are stimulated, are the mere coinage of
extravagance; and the effect is as essentially undramatic as the
personification is unreal." The conduct of the drama is in keeping with
the character of this incomprehensible monster of vindictiveness; he is
"without shame or fear, and bloodthirsty even to madness." His bad
schemes are always successful; but the action proceeds without
connection, the characters come and go without apparent cause; the three
Jews, the monks and nuns, the mother of Don Mathias "appear and
disappear so unexpectedly, and are interwoven with the action in so
entirely an external manner, that the defects of the composition are at
once apparent."
      But mark how I am bless'd for plaguing them;
      I have as much coin as will buy the town.
      But tell me now, how hast thou spent thy time?"

Undoubtedly, the "groundlings" shouted with delight when this fiend was plunged into the boiling
caldron which he had heated for others. Barabas dies, "in the midst of his crimes, with blasphemy
and cursing on his lips; everything is the same at the end as it was from the beginning."

To the unlearned reader, there is no "relation" between this wild drama and the perfect art
shown in Shakspere's Jew, who utters no curse when the gentle Portia pronounces sentence, but
retires with dignity from her court, because "he is not well."

Professor Thorndike tells us that the "traces" of blood revenge in "Hamlet" and "Lear" have
been frequently "remarked." What those traces are we are not informed, but he assures us that
"they have not led to any careful investigation of Shakspere's indebtedness to his contemporaries."
That investigation was reserved for his research, and we hope to show how successfully he has
performed his great task. Meanwhile, we may be allowed to say that if "Lear" contains any "trace"
of the tragedy of blood, it is utterly undiscoverable to the ordinary reader, in the action,
character or fate of the victims; and as for "Hamlet," so far is he from any idea of blood
revenge, that he doubts and disobeys the message from the other world, doubts indeed the existence
of any other world, and dies at last not a bloody death, but by a foil "unbated and envenomed."

If Iago is but the development of the conventional stage villain, his origin and some of the
missing links of his evolution ought to be shown; they have never been guessed, and no critic
can produce a single member of his kindred.

From such premises, Professor Thorndike concludes that "it is only natural to expect that the
genius who brought many of these forms to their highest perfection should not have been so
much an inventor as an adapter"; "We may naturally expect," he says, "that Shakspere's transcendent
plays owe a considerable debt to the less perfect but not less original efforts of his contemporaries."
This "natural expectation" is not disappointed, in Professor Thorndike's opinion, by a comparison
between some of Beaumont and Fletcher's plays and those he calls the "romances" of Shakspere,--"Cymbeline,"
"The Tempest," and "Winter's Tale." The argument is circuitous, but must be carefully followed
in order to estimate the validity and weight of the conclusion.

In the first place, it is assumed as probable that Shakspere and Fletcher wrote "The Two Noble
Kinsmen," and that Fletcher wrote part of "Henry VIII." It is admitted that this last assumption
is "at odds with the weight of authority" and rests mainly, if not wholly, upon Spedding's
essay, in 1850. The only additional suggestion is the new and original test, the so-called
"em-them" test. A laborious table is made, purporting to show that in the part assigned to
Shakspere "them" is used seventeen times, "'em" only five; that in the part assigned to Fletcher
"them" is used but four times, "'em" fifty-seven. We are not told from what source this table
was made, but "Henry VIII." was first published in the folio of 1623. Professor Thorndike says
that later editions have strictly followed it, and in Knight's edition, which he certifies
to be a reprint of the first folio, "'em" as a contraction for "them" occurs just once and
no more. Thus far, then, the new "test" seems to give us no satisfactory aid.

It may be permitted an ordinary reader to wonder how any critic can persuade himself that Fletcher
wrote the speech of Wolsey on his downfall, or the prophecy of Cranmer at the christening of
Elizabeth. Why is it not a permissible hypothesis that "Henry VIII." was written during the
reign of the great Queen, and subsequently revised by Shakspere, after her death, and presented
as a "new play," as Wotten calls it?

The only external evidence that Shakspere wrote any portion of "The Two Noble Kinsmen" is the
quarto of 1634. On the contrary, all the previous external evidence is against that guess,
for it was left out of the First Folio, and Heminge & Condell's positive knowledge is certainly
of more weight than the opinion of Professor Thorndike's sole authority, Mr. Littledale. Moreover,
the play was not included among Shakspere's works in the folio of 1632, and did not appear
among them until, with six other doubtful plays, the editions of 1664 and 1685. In view of
this proof, it is admitted that the question of collaboration is likely to remain forever unsettled,
"because it does not admit of complete demonstration." Nevertheless, collaboration is assumed,
and the "em-them" test is applied to the text so as to credit 1034 lines to Shakspere, 1486
to Fletcher.

German criticism has taken up the subject with minute care, and, we may assert with confidence,
has settled beyond doubt that Shakspere never wrote a single line of "The two Noble Kinsmen."
And it may be added with equal certainty that if the citations from that play are correctly
credited to Fletcher, he never wrote a line of "Henry VIII." Professor Thorndike is not consistent
with himself. On one page he calls his theory conjectural, on another, a "reasonable conclusion."
The play itself ought to convince any fair mind that Shakspere had no share in it, for it contains
an obvious imitation of Ophelia's madness in "Hamlet," which in some points "is a direct plagiarism."
But it was important for Professor Thorndike to show what he calls a "probability" that Shakspere
and Fletcher collaborated, in order to establish his theory that Fletcher "influenced" Shakspere.
With the vanishing of the "probability" the "influence" vanishes.

The second step in the argument is a review of the chronology of the plays of Beaumont and
Fletcher, among which only seven are immediately important. "The Woman Hater," licensed 20th
May, 1607, published in quarto 1607, as lately acted, again in 1648, and assigned to Beaumont
and Fletcher. Its first representation is put by Mr. Fleay on April 5th, 1607. Professor Thorndike
conjectures that this play was produced in 1606. "Philaster," the most important in connection
with our subject, was first published in 1620. Mr. Fleay dates its composition in 1611; Professor
Thorndike, in 1608. The "Four Plays in One" he likewise assigns conjecturally to the same year.
The fact is, it was first printed in the folio of 1647, and no authority fixes the date of
its production. "Thiery and Theodoret" was first published in 1621, without giving the name
of any author. The quarto of 1648 credits Fletcher as the sole author; that of 1649, Beaumont
and Fletcher as the joint authors. Fleay places the date about 1617; Oliphant maintains that
it was written about 1607 or 1608, and afterwards revised in 1617 by Fletcher and Massinger;
Professor Thorndike ventures the guess that it was written in 1607.

"The Maid's Tragedy" he places doubtfully in 1609. It was first published in 1619 without naming
its authors. The only evidence as to its date is that it was licensed October 31st, 1611.

"Cupid's Revenge" was acted at Court in 1612, and first published in 1615. Professor Thorndike
thinks it was an effort to repeat the success of "Philaster," and therefore assigns it to 1609
or 1610.

"A King and No King" he puts without hesitation in the year 1611, and this is supported by
authority. Professor Thorndike remarks that this is the only play (of Beaumont and Fletcher),
"acted before 1612, the year of whose production is fixed."

The only reason for referring to "The Woman Hater" is to fix the date of Beaumont and Fletcher's
appearance. There is absolutely no proof that they were known to literature before that play
was licensed by Sir George Buc on the 20th May, 1607. Yet Professor Thorndike, in spite of
this, assigns "The Woman's Prize," first printed in 1647, and first acted, so far as the record
shows, November 28th, 1633, to the year 1604.

It is to be noted that of the six other plays referred to by Professor Thorndike, and claimed
to have been in existence before the end of 1611, the dates of all except "A King and No King"
are only conjecturally given.

Compared with these, the chronology of "Cymbeline," "Tempest" and "Winter's Tale" is reviewed.
"Cymbeline," according to Dr. Simon Forman's Diary, was acted between April 20th, 1610, and
May 15th, 1611; it must therefore have been written before the last named date. Mr. Fleay fixes
the date in 1609, Malone in 1605, and both Chalmers and Drake substantially agree with Malone.
Ulrici assigns the date of composition to 1609 or 1610.

"The Tempest," according to Professor Thorndike, cannot be dated earlier than October 13th,
1610, nor later than 1613, and was probably written and acted late in 1610 or early in 1611.
Ulrici agrees with this.

"The Winter's Tale," as appears by Forman's Diary, was acted May 15, 1611. Ulrici says: "It
is now a matter of certainty that it must have been brought upon the stage between August,
1610, and May, 1611." It has been suggested with some plausibility that this play was an early
production by Shakspere which he remodelled. A play called "A Winternyght's Pastime" is entered
at Stationer's Hall as early as 1594. Professor Thorndike fixes the date between January 1st
and May 15th, 1611 and assumes that the drama is imitated from Jonson's "Masque of Oberon."
He suggests that as in the "Masque" the chariot of Oberon is drawn by two white bears, "perhaps
here, as in the dance, costume and actor reappeared in the play, in the bear who chases Antigonus."
Anything to show that Shakspere imitated anybody.

The argument is based upon this chronology and the alleged similarity between the enumerated
dramas: the issue is made upon the respective dates of Beaumont and Fletcher's "Philaster"
and Shakspere's "Cymbeline." There is no claim that Shakspere imitated Beaumont and Fletcher
or was influenced by them, except in his three "romances," and of these, "Cymbeline" is placed
first. Professor Thorndike undertakes to prove that "Philaster" was written before October
8th, 1610, and this is his reasoning:

"In the 'Scourge of Folly' by John Davies of Hertford, entered in the Stationer's Register
October 8th, 1610, occurs an epigram referring to this play." Let us examine this statement
first. On the next page he says: "The 'Scourge of Folly' furnishes no further clue in regard
to the date of the epigram." On page 59 of the same essay, referring to another play, "Don
Quixote," the statement is made that it was "entered S. R. 1611 and printed 1612." The entry
was therefore in the nature of a "license to print." It is clear that in this instance the
actual printing or publication was after the entry. The same rule must apply to other plays
of the same period. The date of entry affords no proof whatever of the date of publication
or of presentation. Therefore the date of the entry of "The Scourge of Folly," October 8th,
1610, as Professor Thorndike states, "affords no clue in regard to the date" of Davies's "epigram."
The "epigram" may have been written long after the entry in the Stationer's Register, and probably
was, because it is not to be assumed that the "epigram" appeared in the entry of the play,
and Davies cannot be assumed to have had any knowledge of the existence of "Philaster" until
it appeared upon the stage, a date entirely uncertain.

Further, Professor Thorndike says: "There is no reason why 'Philaster' may not have been produced
before Burbage took up the Blackfriar's lease in 1608. There is in fact no early limit that
can be set for the date; the final limit is of course fixed by Davies' epigram." Of what value
is the final limit "fixed by the epigram" when there is no proof of the date of that? What
ground is there, beyond mere arbitrary assumption, for assigning "Philaster" to 1608? That
play was not printed till 1620. Mr. Fleay, Professor Thorndike's constant authority, says it
was written in 1611, after "Cymbeline" was upon the stage. There is absolutely no proof, therefore,
that "Philaster" was written before October 8th, 1610, no proof when it was entered, licensed
or first acted; and so it is clear, as Professor Thorndike says, that "the date, 1608, adopted
by Dyce, Leonhardt, and Macaulay, is no more than a conjecture." On the other hand, as we have
shown, the external evidence is conclusive that "Cymbeline" was upon the bills before May 15th,
1611, and therefore the argument that "Philaster" preceded "Cymbeline" finds no better support
than the opinion of Dyce, Leonhardt, and Macaulay. It is mere conjecture.

Professor Thorndike expressly admits that of the six plays which are claimed as "romances,"
"A King and No King" "is the only one acted before 1612 the year of whose production is fixed,"
but he states without qualification that "Winter's Tale" and the "Tempest" were not acted until
after "Philaster." As we have seen, "Winter's Tale" was acted May 15th, 1611, and Professor
Thorndike himself says that "'The Tempest' was probably written and acted late in 1610 or early
in 1611"; "Cupid's Revenge" "was acted the Sunday following New Year's 1612; 'A King and No
King' in December, 1611." These are the only two of the six of which the date of acting is
given. Nowhere does Professor Thorndike pretend to give any date whatever when "Philaster"
was acted; the only question discussed is as to the year of authorship, and that is left uncertain.
The statement that "Winter's Tale" and "The Tempest" were "not acted until after 'Philaster'"
is utterly without warrant or authority. If Shakspere is to be adjudged the "imitator" of Beaumont
and Fletcher, the judgment must rest upon facts or inference from facts, and not upon the unsupported
opinion of Professor Wendell's pupil.

Professor Thorndike in fact admits that "we cannot be certain about the date of 'Cymbeline,'"
but yet assumes that "Philaster" preceded it, both in date of production and public appearance,
and proceeds to draw a long parallel between the "romances" of Beaumont and Fletcher and those
of Shakspere, for the purpose of showing that the "romance" or the heroic "romance" was a new
style of drama, "created" by Beaumont and Fletcher and probably adapted and improved by Shakspere.

Whether there is any difference in definition between the "romance" and the "heroic romance"
seems immaterial, since Professor Thorndike uses one term as synonymous with the other. He
gives "the most noticeable characteristics of the romances": "A mixture of tragic and idyllic
events, a series of highly improbable events, heroic and sentimental characters, foreign scenes,
happy denouements." This definition is elaborated in connection with the "romances" of Beaumont
and Fletcher:

1st. They took the plots from any source.

2nd. The plots are ingenious and improbable.

3rd. The plots lack realism.

4th. The plots deal with heroic persons and actions.

5th. The characters are not historical.

6th. The plays are located far off, for example, in Milan, Athens, Messina, Lisbon.

7th. The action has little to do with the real life of any historic period, but with "romance."

8th. The story is of sentimental love, as contrasted with gross, sensual passion.

9th. There is variety of emotional effect.

10th. There is always a happy denouement.

All these elements of the definition are applied to "Cymbeline," "The Tempest" and "Winter's
Tale," and it is maintained that none of Shakspere's previous dramas present the same features.
This is a convenient method of showing that Beaumont and Fletcher "created the romantic drama"
and that Shakspere was "influenced" in writing "Cymbeline" by "Philaster," but it is not criticism;
it is rather an attempt to "create" a definition and apply it to "Philaster," and then to deny
its application to "Midsummer Night's Dream," "Much Ado About Nothing," "The Merchant of Venice,"
"Twelfth Night" or "Measure for Measure."

Why does Professor Wendell call the "Two Gentlemen of Verona" a "romantic comedy," if Beaumont
and Fletcher "created" the type which Professor Thorndike pronounces "romance"? He deliberately
classifies "Much Ado" and "Twelfth Night" as "romantic comedies." Is not "Philaster" a "romantic
comedy"? Then, as "Much Ado" was probably written in 1599, "Twelfth Night" in 1598, when Beaumont
was twelve or thirteen and Fletcher twenty-two or twenty-three, it seems quite "probable" that
they were "influenced" in writing their "romances" by Shakspere. If there is any fundamental
difference between "romantic comedy" and "romance," what is it? This is a difficult question,
which Professor Thorndike has attempted but failed to answer. He admits that "Philaster" has
some generic resemblance to "Measure for Measure," but says that "No one would think of finding
close resemblance between it and anyone of the 'romances.'" If the resemblance is generic,
does it matter whether it is "close"? If "Measure for Measure" falls within the laborious definition
of a "romance," or of a "tragi-comedy," as both that play and "Philaster" are called, why shouldn't
we think of "Measure for Measure," produced in 1604, four years before the wildest conjecture
puts the date of "Philaster," as the model upon which Beaumont and Fletcher built?

"Measure for Measure" answers every detail of the definition: the plot is taken from "Promos
and Cassandra"; it is ingenious and improbable, lacks realism, deals with heroic persons and
actions, a sovereign duke and his rascal brother; the characters are not historical; the location
is far off; the action has little to do with the real life of any historical period; the story
involves sentimental love, as distinctly contrasted with sensual passion; there is variety
of emotional effect; the denouement is happy. If therefore the definition of "romance" is correct,
"Measure for Measure" is as much of that type as "Philaster"; Beaumont and Fletcher did not
"create" it, and there is no reason for supposing that Shakspere imitated them in "Cymbeline,"
"Tempest," or "Winter's Tale."

But certain traits of construction are named as peculiar to the six "romances" of Beaumont
and Fletcher and those of Shakspere, and it is sought to show that Beaumont and Fletcher set
the fashion in these also.

1st. They did not observe the unities.

2nd. They disregarded the chronicle method.

3rd. They left out battles and armies.

4th. They presented a series of contrasted and interesting situations leading up to a startling
climax.

5th. The by-plots assist the main action.

6th. There is the use of tragi-comedy.

Does any attentive reader of Shakspere's comedies, whether called romantic or tragi-comic,
or by whatever other name, need to be told that many of them contain all these traits? General
review is impossible, but take "The Merchant of Venice" as an illustration:

The unities are not observed. We think it is generally thought that Shakspere was in the habit
of disregarding them. The chronicle method is ignored. We are not aware that Shakspere ever
followed it except in writing historical plays. Battles and armies are left out. This comedy,
like others by the same cunning hand, presents a series of contrasted and interesting situations
leading up to a startling climax. Need we call to mind the rash contract of the merchant, and
its almost tragic result, the game of the caskets, the trial and defeat of the clamorous Shylock?
The by-plot assists the main action, else why does Jessica keep house for Portia while she
goes to play "A Daniel come to judgment"? There is the use of tragi-comedy in the ruin of the
merchant, in the whetting of the Jew's knife for the heart of his assured victim. If these
"traits" characterize the "romances" of Beaumont and Fletcher, they are possibly more likely
to have been the "imitators," because "Shylock" was created in 1596 or 1597, some years before
"Philaster" was exhibited as a stage decoration.

It is urged further that in the "romances" of Beaumont and Fletcher "the characters are not
individuals, but types," and that those types are repeated until they became conventionalized.
There is always a very bad and a very good woman, a very generous and noble man and one so
bad as to seem a monster. There is the type of the "love-lorn maiden," of "the lily-livered"
hero, of the faithful friend, of the poltroon. It is supposed by many that such types repeated
in play after play do not mark the highest original power, but rather poverty of invention,
weak and shadowy conception, indistinctness of coloring. Professor Thorndike, however, cannot
too much commend this style, because it gives such wide scope for intense passion, startling
situation, and successful stage effect, and proceeds to seek for similar types in Shakspere's
"romances" as further proof that he "imitated" "Philaster." In his view, the characters show
"surprising loss of individuality." Imogen's character "fails to supply really individual traits";
"Perdita and Miranda have even less marks of individuality than Imogen." They are like Beaumont
and Fletcher's heroines who appear in the same stage costumes, wearing the same masks, differing
only in stage postures and dialogue. More than this: Professor Thorndike would reduce the "creations"
of Viola and Rosalynd to the conventional type of the "love-lorn" maiden, to mere adaptations
for the stage, because they dressed in boy's clothes; of Perdita, to an "imitation" of Lady
Amelia in "Palamon and Arcyte" because she gathered flowers prettily and was commended by the
Queen. He makes the surprising statement that the three heroines in "Cymbeline," the "Tempest"
and "Winter's Tale" have on the stage "few qualities to distinguish them from almost any of
Beaumont and Fletcher's." It is difficult to discuss such generalizations with the temperance
of criticism. They can be true only if Professor Thorndike's theory is correct,--that the delineation
of character is solely for stage effect. There is another theory announced and recorded by
Shakspere himself, and illustrated in every drama he wrote,--that the sole end and aim of the
stage itself and of the characters it represents, is "to hold the mirror up to nature," and
therefore his characters are not "types"; they are men and women who were born, not manufactured;
each is a separate, individual human being; each different from every other. We know them,
for they have entered our houses, sat at our tables, talked with us, laughed and wept with
us, made us shudder at crime and exult in the triumph of virtue.

