, 18--

    "My Dear Jost:"

Blasi started, but he read on. It was a short letter, and he read it through twice.

"Will you get out?" said the old woman crossly, for Blasi stood as if rooted to the floor.
He stuffed the letter back into the torn cover, and went out, but stopped again outside. What
should he do? The letter was Jost's. He was afraid of Jost, and he had opened Jost's letter!
Presently an idea struck him, and he instantly acted on it. He stuck the envelope together
as well as he could, ran through the storm back to the post-office, tossed in the letter quickly,
saying, "The old woman says it's not for her, and she won't take it," and was off again on
his homeward way.

As for Veronica, she had but one thought in her mind all that day. Gertrude was so ill when
she went to her bed-side in the morning, that Veronica's heart at once cried out, "It must
be done!" and all day long she kept repeating to herself, "It shall be done to-night."

When Blasi went to meet her that evening, he was so full of his news that he could scarcely
wait to greet her, before beginning to tell it; but he was so startled by her looks that instead,
he stopped short, and exclaimed,

"What is the matter? Are you ill? Sit down and rest, in the hut, here."

Veronica shook her head; she could not lose a moment, she said, for she was in a hurry to get
home, and was not in the least ill. Then Blasi blurted out his story; he was so eager, that
he could scarcely get the words out straight. Veronica listened with breathless attention.
Suddenly, such a happy radiance spread over her face, that Blasi stood still and gazed at her.

"Hamburg! did you say Hamburg, Blasi? Was that where the letter came from?" Her eyes danced
with joy; Blasi had never seen her look like that before.

"Certainly it was; I am sure of it; I can read Dietrich's writing fast enough," answered Blasi,
and he added to himself, "The women-folk are queer creatures. No fellow can understand them.
A moment ago she looked all broken-down, and as if she could be blown out with a puff of wind,
and now she looks bright and strong as the sun at noon-day."

"Repeat word for word what you read in the letter, please, Blasi," and he told her all that
he could remember. It did not take long. Dietrich said that he had not much to say, but wrote
because Jost was the only person in the world who cared anything for him. Perhaps some day
his mother would come to feel differently; but since he had brought so much trouble upon her,
he could not expect her to forgive him yet. If Veronica was going to marry some one else, he
did not want to hear about it. He could not make up his mind to go to Australia as Jost advised;
it was too far away; he was almost dead of homesickness even in Hamburg. If they were after
him for the man-slaughter, he thought he could hide well enough there, and perhaps in a few
years when the whole thing was forgotten, he could come home again.

If worst came to worst, and he were taken, he should at least get home, if only to be put into
the House of Correction. He felt the worst on his mother's account. He wanted Jost to write
and tell him about things at home, and it was safest to send to the same address, as he always
called for the letters himself.

Veronica hung upon every word that fell from Blasi's lips, and when he had finished, she walked
silently by his side, deep in thought. Presently he asked her what he should do if Jost found
out that he had opened his letter and hauled him up before a Justice of the Peace for it. Veronica
said she believed that Jost would scarcely care to say anything about the letter. She advised
Blasi to keep his own counsel, and to behave as usual, in a perfectly unconcerned manner, whenever
he met Jost. She would take the rest in hand herself. Blasi was more than willing to leave
it all to her; he had entire confidence in her ability to manage the affair. The letters of
all the country round were collected at the central office in Fohrensee, to be forwarded together
from there to the nearest city, where they were sorted and distributed. Veronica thought of
this, and laid her plans accordingly. The next day as soon as she reached Fohrensee, she went
to the post-office, and asked to see the address of a letter which had just been sent in, on
its way to Hamburg. The post-master, who knew her well, did not think the request at all singular,
supposing that it had something to do with the school business.

"A letter for Hamburg came in last evening;" said his daughter who was his assistant, "there
it lies with the others that came with it."

The postmaster went to the table and found the letter, which he handed to Veronica. "The address
is not very nicely written," he said.

The handwriting was either that of a person unused to the pen, or it was purposely disguised.
The letter was addressed to a woman of the same name as that of the miller's widow. The name
of the street was illegible, but the words "To be called for," were plainly written.

Veronica was convinced that the letter she was in search of lay before her. So Jost had written
as she had expected he would do, the day before. He had undoubtedly seen that Dietrich's letter
had been opened. Did he write so promptly in order to frighten Dietrich into going farther
away? Had he suggested to him a new address now that the old one had been discovered? She felt
sure that Jost was trying to prevent anyone but himself from having any communication with
Dietrich. There was not a moment to lose. What would she not have given to be able to withhold
the letter! But she did not dare. She returned it to the postmaster and asked for a piece of
paper. Her hand trembled with excitement and her heart beat so loud, that she thought the post-master
must hear it.

She wrote the following words:

"Dear Dietrich; your mother is very weak. Come home directly. You have nothing to fear. Veronica."

She enveloped it, and addressed it as Jost had done his, and handed it to the post-master.

"I thank you very much indeed," she said, "will you kindly see that this letter goes by this
morning's mail?"

"Yes, yes, I understand; it's a thread-and-needle business," he said laughing, as he threw
the letters down on the same pile. "They will travel side by side and reach Hamburg together."

All day Veronica's hand trembled at her work. Outwardly she was tranquil and composed; but
within was a storm of conjectures, fears and hopes. What had Jost written to Dietrich about
his mother; what about her? Jost had evidently let him believe that he had killed a man. What
reason had Jost for deceiving him and keeping him at a distance? These questions brought the
color to Veronica's cheeks as she suspected what the answers might be. Did Jost think that
she would marry him if Dietrich did not come back? or were there other reasons why he did not
dare to let him come? All sorts of possible solutions flew through Veronica's head, and the
conclusion she arrived at frightened her. She did not wish to suspect any one of being a rogue
without good reason; yet the evidence seemed in this case to be irresistible. If Dietrich came
home, everything would be cleared up. But if he did not come, what then? Would everything have
to be allowed to go on as it was? She would talk it all over with Gertrude this very evening.

CHAPTER XI.

THE MOTTO PROVES TRUE.

Veronica for once did not carry out her plans. When she reached home she found Gertrude in
a high fever. She spoke to Veronica as if she were still a child, and had just come in from
school. Veronica sat quietly down by the bedside, and did what she could to soothe and refresh
her, and when by degrees her mother's mind became more clear, she proposed to her to send for
the doctor. But Gertrude did not want the doctor. She had no pain, she said; she was only weak.
Veronica sat by her side all night, but of course it was no time to speak of the letter, and
of the excitements of the day. It would not do to arouse hopes that might never be fulfilled,
and if Dietrich came, that was enough. All through the long hours of the night, the girl sat
thinking over all the hopes and fears and perplexities of her life, while Gertrude lay still
and seemed to doze. Only now and then she spoke some kindly words to the children, and Veronica
knew that she thought they were both there sitting by her bed-side; again her little ones.

In the morning Gertrude was quite herself again. She would not hear of the doctor's being called,
declaring that she needed nothing but a few days' rest. Veronica would not leave her; but sent
word to Sabina, to ask her to take her place for a few days, which she knew she could rely
upon her to do gladly, for Sabina was extremely friendly, and very proud of her former pupil,
who had been a great credit to her in the position for which she had recommended her.

That day and the next night Mother Gertrude remained quiet, and seemed to sleep most of the
time. On the third day, it was evident that she was looking for something, whenever she opened
her eyes, although she was not at all delirious; and she frequently exclaimed,

"Oh! if I could only see him once more!"

When the sunset light streamed through the window and illuminated the room, a happy smile lighted
up her face. She murmured:

    "He half in dreamland seemed to float
     Saying 'to-morrow will be fine.'"

After a while she turned towards Veronica and said,

"Veronica, sing it again, with him please; it is beautiful, and I like to hear you sing together:
'To-morrow will be fine.'"

"You have been dreaming, mother; we have not been singing," said the poor girl, wiping away
her fast-flowing tears.

It was dark now and all was still. The little night-lamp threw a pale light upon the bed, where
the mother lay in a half-sleep. Veronica sat by with big wide-open eyes. Her restless thoughts
were busy with many questions. Had he received her letter? Would he come? How? When? and how
would the mother be? Suddenly Gertrude rose up in bed with greater strength than she had shown
for many days. "Go! go! Veronica," she said beseechingly, "Open the door for him! He ought
not to stand there knocking like a stranger. Show him how glad we are to see him again!"

"No one is knocking, mother; you are only dreaming," said Veronica sadly shaking her head;
but the longing in Gertrude's eyes was more than she could resist, and she rose and left the
room, thinking to please her by compliance. She heard a step; but then the road ran in front
of the house, and it might be any passer-by. She opened the outside door--Dietrich stood before
her!

"You summoned me, or I should not have come;" said the young man, half in excuse, and half
reassuringly, for Veronica stood dumb and motionless before him. "Will you not shake hands,
Veronica?"

She gave him her hand, saying only,

"Come to your mother; she heard your step, and doesn't need to be prepared for you. But you
must control yourself; you will find her very much altered."

Dietrich entered the room. His mother was still sitting up in bed, watching the door, in a
strained, expectant attitude. She was indeed changed. She looked so small and thin and wasted.
Dietrich was completely unmanned at the sight. He sprang to the bedside, threw his arms about
her, and between his sobs he cried again and again,

"Forgive me, mother, forgive me! I will never act so again! I will lead a different life! Everything
shall be right! You must live to be happy, mother!"

"Thank God that you have come, Dietrich," said his mother, trembling with weakness and excitement.
"I forgave you long ago. How could I have anything against you? But, my dear boy, why did you
not write one word, one little word to tell me how you were and where? Didn't you know how
unhappy you were making me?"

"What, mother! what do you mean? I wrote three times to you and twice to Veronica; and you
sent me back word through Jost that you did not want to hear from me; that the disgrace was
too much, and that no one dared to mention my name before Veronica, she was so angry with me.
I had to send my letters through Jost, and he gave me the address of his old aunt to make all
safe. It was better for you not to know where I was, because they were hunting for me on account
of the man I killed. And you have never got one of my letters; not one?"

His mother could only shake her head in reply. She tried to speak, but she had already gone
beyond her strength, and she sank back upon her pillows. Veronica, who had been standing by
in silence, started forward.

"I will run for the doctor," she said, "stay with her, Dietrich;" and she darted from the room.
He hurried after her. "Let me go," he said, "it is too late for you to be out, and you can
take better care of her than I can." He was off; and Veronica returned to the bed-side. He
took the shortest road; the one that passed the Rehbock. Loud shouts and cries were sounding
from the inn. He hurried by. Presently he heard his own name called; some one came running
after him, shouting:

"Wait, Dietrich, wait!" He turned round and saw Blasi, who had recognized him as he passed
the door, and rushed out after him. "Don't run away, Dietrich! Welcome home! Where did you
come from? Have you seen her? Don't run away! Listen to me!" Dietrich stopped and shook hands
with Blasi, and again started forward. Blasi detained him.

"There's been something going on that you ought to know about," he continued. "Don't think
that I go to the Rehbock every evening, by any means! I heard there was some strange news,
and so I went there to-night to hear it, and it was well worth while, I can tell you. The red
fellow is found out! The cattle-dealer accused him of having stolen his money bag. The man
denied it; there was a long investigation, and at last they found out that and a great many
other things against him. He turns out to be a regular rascal. And when all this had been proved
against him, he turned round and accused another man, who, he said, was really at the bottom
of everything; but no one knows yet who it is. Don't run so fast; I can't keep up with you.
Now you're out of it all right, Dietrich; but I suppose you know that they tried to make out
that you took the money, and that was why you ran away. But I never believed it; I never did,
on my honor. Do stand still; it's all right now, and you needn't run away any more."

"I'm not going to run away, Blasi, and I thank you for bringing me this good news. But it's
not all right you know, on account of Marx."

"Marx!" cried Blasi, "what of Marx! it doesn't hurt a man to get a good beating. Marx is as
lively as you or I, and still drinks more than enough to quench his thirst, when he can get it."

Dietrich stood still now, and drew a long breath. "Is that true, Blasi, really true? You wouldn't
say it if it were not true? She wrote me that there was nothing to fear; but I didn't understand
it. And I can't quite understand now, Jost wrote me that Marx was dead, and that I had better
go away as far as I possibly could, because they were searching for me, high and low. I can't
make it out. But I must go now for the doctor. Come and see me to-morrow, Blasi; and we will
have a good talk. Now good-night."

Dietrich shook his old comrade by the hand and ran off. But Blasi could not so easily smother
all the wonderful things he had to tell, and he called out at the top of his lungs,

"You don't know much of anything yet! I spend the whole day at your house; it's you that will
have to come to me. I am working at your trade; you ought to see! there's many a fellow that
would be glad to do as well as I do!"

But Dietrich had disappeared. It was past midnight, before he reached the doctor's house, and
he knocked a good many times in vain. At last a maid came down and opened the door, saying
as she did so,

"What a plague it is, that everything always comes at once! He has been called out once to-night,
and has hardly got to bed again. It never rains but it pours!"

"I hope he will be so good as to come now;" said Dietrich, "it is very important or I would
not ask him."

The maid knocked at the chamber door. It was some time before the doctor's voice answered from
within, "Who's there?"

"Dietrich from Tannenegg," said the servant.

"He back again? No, I'm too old and too tired for that. They ought to give him a good beating
if they can catch him; it would serve him right."

Dietrich stepped up to the door himself.

"It is not for me, doctor," said he humbly, "it is for my mother; she is very ill indeed. For
God's sake, doctor, come and help her!"

"That's another thing altogether; she is a brave woman, who has been doing your work for you,"
said the voice from within the room. Pretty soon the doctor came out, and when Dietrich described
his mother's condition, he took some medicines with him and started out.

"I have no horse to use to-night; mine has done a hard day's work and must have his rest. We
shall have to go up the hill afoot."

As they crossed the open space in front of the house, he continued,

"I remember once how on this very spot once a little boy stood up in front of me, and when
I asked him if he would like some day to take care of a horse, answered, 'No, I want a horse
of my own.' I thought he had a good purpose in view if he would only pursue it the right way.
But it does not do to want to begin by being a gentleman. First come work, and service for
us all, then mastership may follow. Whoever tries to begin at the end, will end at the beginning;
which is not a good nor an agreeable method. Am I right or wrong, Dietrich?"

"You are right, doctor. If one could only look ahead!" answered Dietrich.

"Yes, that would help; but as we cannot, we must trust those who are our friends, and who have
gone before us in the right way, and can show us the road; like that noble woman to whom we
are now going."

When they entered Gertrude's room they found her asleep. The doctor sat down by the bedside,
watched her awhile, and felt her pulse from time to time. Then he arose and turning to Veronica,
he said,

"I can do no good here; take care of her; she deserves all you can do, but the lamp of life
burns low, and will soon go out altogether. She has had a hard lot; trouble wears faster than
years."

With these words the doctor went to the door. He did not even glance towards Dietrich, who
threw himself on his knees by the bedside of his dying mother, sobbing out:

"O God in Heaven, do not let her die! Let her come back! Let her have a little comfort in this
world! Punish me as I deserve, but oh! let my mother live!"

Gertrude opened her eyes. She grasped the hand of her sobbing son, which lay upon hers, and
held it tightly clasped; while she whispered softly:

"Yes, my Dieterli, pray, pray; if you can pray, all will come right again."

She closed her eyes and never spoke again. The hand that held Dietrich's grew cold. Veronica,
who had been standing behind Dietrich weeping silently approached the bedside, took Gertrude's
other hand in hers, and said between her sobs:

"Sleep well, dear, good mother! Yes, for you 'tomorrow will be fine';" and she left the room.

Two days later Dietrich followed his mother to her last resting place. There was no need to
avoid meeting people now, for every one knew that the true thief had been discovered. But no
hope was left to him in his home. When he returned from the funeral, and went into the house,
he knew that he had no right there, for it no longer belonged to him. He went to his room,
strapped on his heavy knap-sack, and came down stairs. Veronica was alone in the sitting-room.
She stood leaning against the window, her eyes fixed on the church-yard beyond, where the mother
lay sleeping.

He entered the room. "Veronica, give me your hand once more. I am going," he said, coming towards
her.

"Where are you going, Dietrich?" she asked in a voice that was wholly without feeling; and
the cold tone seemed to stab the young man's heart as with a knife. "It is all one to her;"
he thought.

"I am going out into the world. I am going to work to pay my debts. I have no home; and as
there is no one on earth who cares for me, I can bear my burden better anywhere than here."

"Then go, in God's name," said Veronica, and she held out her hand to him. This was too much
for Dietrich. He made one struggle for self-control and then broke down completely.

"Can you let me go so coolly, Veronica? not one kindly word for me? If I might stay here with
you, I would work day and night like the meanest servant; I would do anything and everything
for you. But no! I must go! I could not bear it! How could I stay and see you give yourself
to some one else--I who have lost you,--lost you forever!"

The young man threw himself into a chair, buried his face in his hands, and cried like a child.

Veronica was as white as snow. She went to his side, and laid her hand upon his shoulder.

"Dietrich," she said softly, "if you feel in this way, why don't you ask me how I feel, when
I think of living on here alone when you have gone; when you have left me perhaps forever?"

Dietrich raised his eyes to hers. A look lay there, a look such as he had dreamed of in his
banishment. He sprang to his feet, and seized her hand.

"Veronica, can you love me? can you trust me?"

She did not withdraw her hand, and looked him full in the eyes.

"I have always loved you, Dietrich," she said, "and if I know that you can pray again to God,
and promise to live a life acceptable to Him, I can trust you too."

The young man pressed her to his heart. "Is it true, is it possible?" he cried. "Oh Veronica,
can it be true?"

But suddenly he started back, and said in a frightened tone,

"No, I dare not. I cannot. Who am I? I am nothing; I have nothing, less than nothing; and I
know what you are and how far above me. Jost wrote me that there was no hope for me. I wanted
to make you so happy--I meant to get money and provide all sorts of beautiful things for you
and to make you the happiest woman in the world. And now! now I am a beggar, and a miserable
creature into the bargain."

Veronica shook her head.

"You do not understand what happiness really is, Dietrich. I have been searching for it longer
than you have, and you may believe me that it is not what you think. It is not something at
a distance, far beyond our reach; we may find it while we are at work. We are not beggars;
this house is ours, and we can still live in it. But, Dietrich, we will try to find the way
that our mother went; that is the true way to happiness and peace in life and death."

"We will," cried Dietrich, with solemn joy; and as he clasped Veronica again to his heart,
there was that in his face and in his voice which assured her that he would never leave her
again, and that they would walk in that true way of happiness and peace together.

At this moment Judith burst into the room. When she saw the faces of the two who stood before
her, she stood stock still with surprise! She immediately took in the situation.

"So! So! this is something that delights one's very heart!" she cried, and her face beamed
with satisfaction. "But look out of the window! I came to tell you! You can say good-bye to
that rascal forever."

They stepped together to the window which looked out upon the road. Jost was just going by.
His hands were bound together, and he was followed by the Constable, who hurried him along.
Jost looked up at the window and shrank back at what he saw; but the man drove him on.

"What does it mean?" asked Dietrich and Veronica in the same breath, turning to Judith.

"It is what was bound to come," she explained. "Everything is found out. They seized the red
fellow first, after I succeeded in getting it through the cattle-dealer's thick head that he
was the man to get hold of. When they had driven the red man into a corner, so that he couldn't
lie himself out of it, he turned against Jost, and declared that Jost had planned the whole
thing and that he himself had only played second-fiddle. Which can lie the worst, no one can
tell, but that they are both reaping what they have sown, is certain enough. And now we're
to have a wedding, are we? and our Dietrich is going to settle down into regular home life
again. Welcome, neighbors; we will live in friendship together all our days." And Judith shook
hands cordially with them both, and hastened away to spread through the neighborhood the good
news of the coming marriage.

It is now ten years since Dietrich and Veronica left the church of Tannenegg where they had
been made one, and the blessing had been pronounced upon their united lives. They went first
to the little church yard and knelt by the new made grave covered with flowers. With tearful
eyes, and with sad regrets in their happy hearts, they said,

"If she could only have lived to see us now!"

Today there is no more beautiful flower-garden in all Tannenegg, than that about Dietrich's
pretty white house. Within the house all is so fresh and charming from top to bottom, that
one who enters it finds it difficult to get away again from its hospitable shelter.

Dietrich has built a fine large work-room; and there he sits and works, industrious and happy,
or he goes about his outside affairs in a steady business-like manner. Often he has to go to
Fohrensee and even farther; for his trade is prosperous beyond competition and his work is
recognized far and wide as of unrivalled excellence.

On Veronica's face lies such a sunshine of constant happiness as is good to look upon. She
has given up her position in the school at Fohrensee; her place is with her husband and children;
but she does not for all that sit with her hands in her lap; her orderly well-kept house, and
her blooming well-behaved children bear witness to her faultless management as well as to her
care and industry, and at the great annual Fair in the city, if any one inquires about some
wonderfully fine and beautiful embroidery on exhibition, the answer invariably is, "that is
the work of Veronica of Tannenegg."

Blasi is Dietrich's permanent assistant. He is constantly about the house, and is known in
the family as Uncle Blasi. As soon as the day's work is over, and the evening sets in, his
first question is, "Where are our children?" He never speaks of them in any other way; they
are his, his joy and pride. He has also a special claim upon them, for he and Cousin Judith
are the god-father and god-mother of both.

Blasi's favorite time is Sunday, when Dietrich goes to walk with his wife, and gives over the
house and the children to him. Then he sets upon one knee the chubby little Dieterli and on
the other the black eyed Veronica, and they ride there as long as they please, no matter how
high the horse has to curvet and prance. And whatever else they want him to do for them, he
is ready to do, whatever it may be.

