"Who changed around?"

"The team. He always used to drive the bay on the near side, and the sorrel on the off."

"And at present," rejoined Meredith, "I am to understand that he is driving the sorrel on the
near side, and bay on the off?"

"That's it," returned the other. "He must have worked them like that for some time, because
they didn't look uneasy. They're all right about the train, those two. I've seen them stand
with their heads almost against a fast freight. See there!" He pointed to a white frame farmhouse
with green blinds. "That's Win Hibbard's. We're just outside of Beaver."

"Beaver? Elucidate Beaver, boy!"

"Beaver? Meredith, your information ends at home. What do you know of your own State if you
are ignorant of Beaver. Beaver is that city of Carlow County next in importance and population
to Plattville."

Tom put his head out of the window. "I fancy you are right," he said. "I already see five people
there."

Meredith had observed the change in his companion's mood. He had watched him closely all day,
looking for a return of his malady; but he came to the conclusion that in truth a miracle had
been wrought, for the lethargy was gone, and vigor seemed to increase in Harkless with every
turn of the wheels that brought them nearer Plattville; and the nearer they drew to Plattville
the higher the spirits of both the young men rose. Meredith knew what was happening there,
and he began to be a little excited. As he had said, there were five people visible at Beaver;
and he wondered where they lived, as the only building in sight was the station, and to satisfy
his curiosity he walked out to the vestibule. The little station stood in deep woods, and brown
leaves whirled along the platform. One of the five people was an old lady, and she entered
a rear car. The other four were men. One of them handed the conductor a telegram.

Meredith heard the official say, "All right. Decorate ahead. I'll hold it five minutes."

The man sprang up the steps of the smoker and looked in. He turned to Meredith: "Do you know
if that gentleman in the gray coat is Mr. Harkless? He's got his back this way, and I don't
want to go inside. The--the air in a smoker always gives me a spell."

"Yes, that's Mr. Harkless."

The man jumped to the platform. "All right, boys," he said. "Rip her out."

The doors of the freight-room were thrown open, and a big bundle of colored stuffs was dragged
out and hastily unfolded. One of the men ran to the further end of the car with a strip of
red, white and blue bunting, and tacked it securely, while another fastened the other extremity
to the railing of the steps by Meredith. The two companions of this pair performed the same
operation with another strip on the other side of the car. They ran similar strips of bunting
along the roof from end to end, so that, except for the windows, the car was completely covered
by the national colors. Then they draped the vestibules with flags. It was all done in a trice.

Meredith's heart was beating fast. "What's it all about?" he asked.

"Picnic down the line," answered the man in charge, removing a tack from his mouth. He motioned
to the conductor, "Go ahead."

The wheels began to move; the decorators remained on the platform, letting the train pass them;
but Meredith, craning his neck from the steps, saw that they jumped on the last car.

"What's the celebration?" asked Harkless, when Meredith returned.

"Picnic down the line," said Meredith.

"Nipping weather for a picnic; a little cool, don't you think? One of those fellows looked
like a friend of mine. Homer Tibbs, or as Homer might look if he were in disgrace. He had his
hat hung on his eyes, and he slouched like a thief in melodrama, as he tacked up the bunting
on this side of the car." He continued to point out various familiar places, finally breaking
out enthusiastically, as they drew nearer the town, "Hello! Look there--beyond the grove yonder!
See that house?"

"Yes, John."

"That's the Bowlders'. You've got to know the Bowlders."

"I'd like to."

"The kindest people in the world. The Briscoe house we can't see, because it's so shut in by
trees; and, besides, it's a mile or so ahead of us. We'll go out there for supper to-night.
Don't you like Briscoe? He's the best they make. We'll go up town with Judd Bennett in the
omnibus, and you'll know how a rapid-fire machine gun sounds. I want to go straight to the
'Herald' office," he finished, with a suddenly darkening brow.

"After all, there may be some explanation," Meredith suggested, with a little hesitancy. "H.
Fisbee might turn out more honest than you think."

Harkless threw his head back and laughed; it was the first time Meredith had heard him laugh
since the night of the dance in the country. "Honest! A man in the pay of Rodney McCune! Well,
we can let it wait till we get there. Listen! There's the whistle that means we're getting
near home. By heaven, there's an oil-well!"

"So it is."

"And another--three--five--seven--seven in sight at once! They tried it three miles south and
failed; but you can't fool Eph Watts, bless him! I want you to know Watts."

They were running by the outlying houses of the town, amidst a thousand descriptive exclamations
from Harkless, who wished Meredith to meet every one in Carlow. But he came to a pause in the
middle of a word.

"Do you hear music?" he asked abruptly. "Or is it only the rhythm of the ties?"

"It seems to me there's music in the air," answered his companion. "I've been fancying I heard
it for a minute or so. There! No--yes. It's a band, isn't it?"

"No; what would a band----"

The train slowed up, and stopped at a watertank, two hundred yards east of the station, and
their uncertainty was at an end.

From somewhere down the track came the detonating boom of a cannon. There was a dash of brass,
and the travellers became aware of a band playing "Marching through Georgia." Meredith laid
his hand on his companion's shoulder. "John," he said, "John----" The cannon fired again, and
there came a cheer from three thousand throats, the shouters all unseen.

The engine coughed and panted, the train rolled on, and in another minute it had stopped alongside
the station in the midst of a riotous jam of happy people, who were waving flags and banners
and handkerchiefs, and tossing their hats high in the air, and shouting themselves hoarse.
The band played in dumb show; it could not hear itself play. The people came at the smoker
like a long wave, and Warren Smith, Briscoe, Keating, and Mr. Bence of Gaines were swept ahead
of it. Before the train stopped they had rushed eagerly up the steps and entered the car.

Harkless was on his feet and started to meet them. He stopped.

"What does it mean?" he said, and began to grow pale. "Is Halloway--did McCune--have you----"

Warren Smith seized one of his hands and Briscoe the other. "What does it mean?" cried Warren;
"it means that you were nominated for Congress at five minutes after one-o'clock this afternoon."

"On the second ballot," shouted the Judge, "just as young Fisbee planned it, weeks ago."

It was one of the great crowds of Carlow's history. They had known since morning that he was
coming home, and the gentlemen of the Reception Committee had some busy hours; but long before
the train arrived, everything was ready. Homer Tibbs had done his work well at Beaver, and
the gray-haired veterans of a battery Carlow had sent out in '61 had placed their worn old
gun in position to fire salutes. At one-o'clock, immediately after the nomination had been
made unanimous, the Harkless Clubs of Carlow, Amo, and Gaines, secretly organized during the
quiet agitation preceding the convention, formed on parade in the court-house yard, and, with
the Plattville Band at their head, paraded the streets to the station, to make sure of being
on hand when the train arrived--it was due in a couple of hours. There they were joined by
an increasing number of glad enthusiasts, all noisy, exhilarated, red-faced with shouting,
and patriotically happy. As Mr. Bence, himself the spoiled child of another county, generously
said, in a speech, which (with no outrageous pressure) he was induced to make during the long
wait: "The favorite son of Carlow is returning to his Lares and Penates like another Cincinnatus
accepting the call of the people; and, for the first time in sixteen years, Carlow shall have
a representative to bear the banner of this district and the flaming torch of Progress sweeping
on to Washington and triumph like a speedy galleon of old. And his friends are here to take
his hand and do him homage, and the number of his friends is as the number given in the last
census of the population of the counties of this district!"

And, indeed, in this estimate the speaker seemed guilty of no great exaggeration. A never intermittent
procession of pedestrians and vehicles made its way to the station; and every wagon, buckboard,
buggy, and cut-under had its flags or bunting, or streamer of ribbons tied to the whip. The
excitement increased as the time grew shorter; those on foot struggled for better positions,
and the people in wagons and carriages stood upon seats, while the pedestrians besieged them,
climbing on the wheels, or balancing recklessly, with feet on the hubs of opposite wagons.
Everybody was bound to see him. When the whistle announced the coming of the train, the band
began to play, the cannon fired, horns blew, and the cheering echoed and reechoed till heaven's
vault resounded with the noise the people of Carlow were making.

There was one heart which almost stopped beating. Helen was standing on the front seat of the
Briscoe buckboard, with Minnie beside her, and, at the commotion, the horses pranced and backed
so that Lige Willetts ran to hold them; but she did not notice the frightened roans, nor did
she know that Minnie clutched her round the waist to keep her from falling. Her eyes were fixed
intently on the smoke of the far-away engine, and her hand, lifted to her face in an uncertain,
tremulous fashion, as it was one day in a circus tent, pressed against the deepest blush that
ever mantled a girl's cheek. When the train reached the platform, she saw Briscoe and the others
rush into the car, and there ensued what was to her an almost intolerable pause of expectation,
while the crowd besieged the windows of the smoker, leaning up and climbing on each other's
shoulders to catch the first glimpse of him. Briscoe and a red-faced young man, a stranger
to Plattville, came down the steps, laughing like boys, and then Keating and Bence, and then
Warren Smith. As the lawyer reached the platform, he turned toward the door of the car and
waved his hand as in welcome.

"Here he is, boys!" he shouted, "Welcome Home!" At that it was as if all the noise that had
gone before had been mere leakage of pent-up enthusiasm. A thousand horns blared deafeningly,
the whistles of the engine and of Hibbard's mill were added to the din, the court-house bell
was pealing out a welcome, and the church bells were ringing, the cannon thundered, and then
cheer on cheer shook the air, as John Harkless came out under the flags, and passed down the
steps of the car.

When Helen saw him, over the heads of the people and through a flying tumult of flags and hats
and handkerchiefs, she gave one frightened glance about her, and jumped down from her high
perch, and sank into the back seat of the buckboard with her burning face turned from the station
and her eyes fixed on the ground. She wanted to run away, as she had run from him the first
time she had ever seen him. Then, as now, he came in triumph, hailed by the plaudits of his
fellows; and now, as on that long-departed day of her young girlhood, he was borne high over
the heads of the people, for Minnie cried to her to look; they were carrying him on their shoulders
to his carriage. She had had only that brief glimpse of him, before he was lost in the crowd
that was so glad to get him back again and so proud of him; but she had seen that he looked
very white and solemn.

Briscoe and Tom Meredith made their way through the crowd, and climbed into the buckboard.
"All right, Lige," called the judge to Willetts, who was at the horses' heads. "You go get
into line with the boys; they want you. We'll go down on Main Street to see the parade," he
explained to the ladies, gathering the reins in his hand.

He clucked to the roans, and by dint of backing and twisting and turning and a hundred intricate
manoeuvres, accompanied by entreaties and remonstrances and objurgations, addressed to the
occupants of surrounding vehicles, he managed to extricate the buckboard from the press; and
once free, the team went down the road toward Main Street at a lively gait. The judge's call
to the colts rang out cheerily; his handsome face was one broad smile. "This is a big day for
Carlow," he said; "I don't remember a better day's work in twenty years."

"Did you tell him about Mr. Halloway?" asked Helen, leaning forward anxiously.

"Warren told him before we left the car," answered Briscoe. "He'd have declined on the spot,
I expect, if we hadn't made him sure it was all right with Kedge."

"If I understood what Mr. Smith was saying, Halloway must have behaved very well," said Meredith.

The judge laughed. "He saw it was the only way to beat McCune, and he'd have given his life
and Harkless's, too, rather than let McCune have it."

"Why didn't you stay with him, Tom?" asked Helen.

"With Halloway? I don't know him."

"One forgives a generous hilarity anything, even such quips as that," she retorted. "Why did
you not stay with Mr. Harkless?"

"That's very hospitable of you," laughed the young man. "You forget that I have the felicity
to sit at your side. Judge Briscoe has been kind enough to ask me to review the procession
from his buckboard and to sup at his house with other distinguished visitors, and I have accepted."

"But didn't he wish you to remain with him?"

"But this second I had the honor to inform you that I am here distinctly by his invitation."

"His?"

"Precisely, his. Judge Briscoe, Miss Sherwood will not believe that you desire my presence.
If I intrude, pray let me--" He made as if to spring from the buckboard, and the girl seized
his arm impatiently.

"You are a pitiful nonsense-monger!" she cried; and for some reason this speech made him turn
his glasses upon her gravely. Her lashes fell before his gaze, and at that he took her hand
and kissed it quickly.

"No, no," she faltered. "You must not think it. It isn't--you see, I--there is nothing!"

"You shall not dull the edge of my hilarity," he answered, "especially since so much may be
forgiven it."

"Why did you leave Mr. Harkless?" she asked, without raising her eyes.

"My dear girl," he replied, "because, for some inexplicable reason, my lady cousin has not
nominated me for Congress, but instead has chosen to bestow that distinction upon another,
and, I may say, an unworthier and unfitter man than I. And, oddly enough, the non-discriminating
multitude were not cheering for me; the artillery was not in action to celebrate me; the band
was not playing to do me honor; therefore why should I ride in the midst of a procession that
knows me not? Why should I enthrone me in an open barouche--a little faded and possibly not
quite secure as to its springs, but still a barouche--with four white horses to draw it, and
draped with silken flags, both barouche and steeds? Since these things were not for me, I flew
to your side to dissemble my spleen under the licensed prattle of a cousin."

"Then who is with him?"

"The population of this portion of our State, I take it."

"Oh, it's all right," said the judge, leaning back to speak to Helen. "Keating and Smith and
your father are to ride in the carriage with him. You needn't be afraid of any of them letting
him know that H. Fisbee is a lady. Everybody understands about that; of course they know it's
to be left to you to break it to him how well a girl has run his paper." The old gentleman
chuckled, and looked out of the corner of his eye at his daughter, whose expression was inscrutable.

"I!" cried Helen. "I tell him! No one must tell him. He need never know it."

Briscoe reached back and patted her cheek. "How long do you suppose he will be here in Plattville
without it's leaking out?"

"But they kept guard over him for months and nobody told him."

"Ah," said Briscoe, "but this is different."

"No, no, no!" she exclaimed. "It must be kept from him somehow!"

"He'll know it by to-morrow, so you'd better tell him this evening."

"This evening?"

"Yes. You'll have a good chance."

"I will?"

"He's coming to supper with us. He and your father, of course, and Keating and Bence and Boswell
and Smith and Tom Martin and Lige. We're going to have a big time, with you and Minnie to do
the honors; and we're all coming into town afterwards for the fireworks; I'll let him drive
you in the phaeton. You'll have plenty of time to talk it over with him and tell him all about it."

Helen gave a little gasp. "Never!" she cried. "Never!"

The buckboard stopped on the "Herald" corner, and here, and along Main Street, the line of
vehicles which had followed it from the station took their places. The Square was almost a
solid mass of bunting, and the north entrance of the court-house had been decorated with streamers
and flags, so as to make it a sort of stand. Hither the crowd was already streaming, and hither
the procession made its way. At intervals the cannon boomed, and Schofields' Henry was winnowing
the air with his bell; nobody had a better time that day than Schofields' Henry, except old
Wilkerson, who was with the procession.

In advance, came the boys, whooping and somersaulting, and behind them, rode a band of mounted
men, sitting their horses like cavalrymen, led by the sheriff and his deputy and Jim Bardlock;
then followed the Harkless Club of Amo, led by Boswell, with the magnanimous Halloway himself
marching in the ranks; and at sight of this the people shouted like madmen. But when Helen's
eye fell upon his fat, rather unhappy face, she felt a pang of pity and unreasoning remorse,
which warned her that he who looks upon politics when it is red must steel his eyes to see
many a man with the heart-burn. After the men of Amo, came the Harkless Club of Gainesville,
Mr. Bence in the van with the step of a grenadier. There followed next, Mr. Ephraim Watts,
bearing a light wand in his hand and leading a detachment of workers from the oil-fields in
their stained blue overalls and blouses; and, after them, came Mr. Martin and Mr. Landis at
the head of an organization recognized in the "Order of Procession," printed in the "Herald,"
as the Business Men of Plattville. They played in such magnificent time that every high-stepping
foot in all the line came down with the same jubilant plunk, and lifted again with a unanimity
as complete as that of the last vote the convention had taken that day. The leaders of the
procession set a brisk pace, and who could have set any other kind of a pace when on parade
to the strains of such a band, playing such a tune as "A New Coon in Town," with all its might
and main?

But as the line swung into the Square, there came a moment when the tune was ended, the musicians
paused for breath, and there fell comparative quiet. Amongst the ranks of Business Men ambled
Mr. Wilkerson, singing at the top of his voice, and now he could be heard distinctly enough
for those near to him to distinguish the melody with which it was his intention to favor the
public:

            "Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
               As we go marching on."

The words, the air, that husky voice, recalled to the men of Carlow another day and another
procession, not like this one. And the song Wilkerson was singing is the one song every Northern-born
American knows and can sing. The leader of the band caught the sound, signalled to his men;
twenty instruments rose as one to twenty mouths; the snare-drum rattled, the big drum crashed,
the leader lifted his baton high over his head, and music burst from twenty brazen throats:

             "Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!"

Instantaneously, the whole procession began to sing the refrain, and the people in the street,
and those in the wagons and carriages, and those leaning from the windows joined with one accord,
the ringing bells caught the time of the song, and the upper air reverberated in the rhythm.

The Harkless Club of Carlow wheeled into Main Street, two hundred strong, with their banners
and transparencies. Lige Willetts rode at their head, and behind him strode young William Todd
and Parker and Ross Schofield and Homer Tibbs and Hartley Bowlder, and even Bud Tipworthy held
a place in the ranks through his connection with the "Herald." They were all singing.

And, behind them, Helen saw the flag-covered barouche and her father, and beside him sat John
Harkless with his head bared.

She glanced at Briscoe; he was standing on the front seat with Minnie beside him, and both
were singing. Meredith had climbed upon the back seat and was nervously fumbling at a cigarette.

"Sing, Tom!" the girl cried to him excitedly.

"I should be ashamed not to," he answered; and dropped the cigarette and began to sing "John
Brown's Body" with all his strength. With that she seized his hand, sprang up beside him, and
over the swelling chorus her full soprano rose, lifted with all the power in her.

The barouche rolled into the Square, and, as it passed, Harkless turned,
and bent a sudden gaze upon the group in the buckboard; but the western
sun was in his eyes, and he only caught a glimpse of a vague, bright
shape and a dazzle of gold, and he was borne along and out of view, down
the singing street.
                   As we go marching on!"

The barouche stopped in front of the courthouse, and he passed up a lane they made for him
to the steps. When he turned to them to speak, they began to cheer again, and he had to wait
for them to quiet down.

"We can't hear him from over here," said Briscoe, "we're too far off. Mr. Meredith, suppose
you take the ladies closer in, and I'll stay with the horses. You want to hear his speech."

"He is a great man, isn't he?" Meredith said to Helen, gravely, as he handed her out of the
buckboard. "I've been trying to realize for the last few minutes, that he is the same old fellow
I've been treating so familiarly all day long."

"Yes, he is a great man," she answered. "This is only the beginning."

"That's true," said Briscoe, who had overheard her. "He'll go pretty far. A man that people
know is steady and strong and level-headed can get whatever he wants, because a public man
can get anything, if people know he's safe and honest and they can rely on him for sense. It
sounds like a simple matter; but only three or four public men in the country have convinced
us that they are like that. Hurry along, young people."

Crossing the street, they met Miss Tibbs; she was wiping her streaming eyes with the back of
her left hand and still mechanically waving her handkerchief with her right. "Isn't it beautiful?"
she said, not ceasing to flutter, unconsciously, the little square of cambric. "There was such
a throng that I grew faint and had to come away. I don't mind your seeing me crying. Pretty
near everybody cried when he walked up to the steps and we saw that he was lame."

Standing on the outskirts of the crowd, they could hear the mellow ring of Harkless's voice,
but only fragments of the speech, for it was rather halting, and was not altogether clear in
either rhetoric or delivery; and Mr. Bence could have been a good deal longer in saying what
he had to say, and a thousand times more oratorical. Nevertheless, there was not a man or woman
present who did not declare that it was the greatest speech ever heard in Plattville; and they
really thought so--to such lengths are loyalty and friendship sometimes carried in Carlow and
Amo and Gaines.

He looked down upon the attentive, earnest faces and into the kindly eyes of the Hoosier country
people, and, as he spoke, the thought kept recurring to him that this was the place he had
dreaded to come back to; that these were the people he had wished to leave--these, who gave
him everything they had to give--and this made it difficult to keep his tones steady and his
throat clear.

Helen stood so far from the steps (nor could she be induced to penetrate further, though they
would have made way for her) that only fragments reached her, but what she heard she remembered:

"I have come home... Ordinarily a man needs to fall sick by the wayside or to be set upon by
thieves, in order to realize that nine-tenths of the world is Samaritan, and the other tenth
only too busy or too ignorant to be. Down here he realizes it with no necessity of illness
or wounds to bring it out; and if he does get hurt, you send him to Congress.... There will
be no other in Washington so proud of what he stands for as I shall be. To represent you is
to stand for realities--fearlessness, honor, kindness.... We are people who take what comes
to us, and it comes bountifully; we are rich--oh, we are all Americans here!... This is the
place for a man who likes to live where people are kind to one another, and where they have
the old-fashioned way of saying 'Home.' Other places, they don't seem to get so much into it
as we do. And to come home as I have to-day.... I have come home...."

Every one meant to shake hands with him, and, when the speech was over, those nearest swooped
upon him, cheering and waving, and grasping at his hand. Then a line was formed, and they began
to defile by him, as he stood on the steps, and one by one they came up, and gave him hearty
greetings, and passed on through the court-house and out at the south door. Tom Meredith and
Minnie Briscoe came amongst the others, and Tom said only, "Good old boy," as he squeezed his
friend's hand; and then, as he went down the hall, wiping his glasses, he asked Minnie if she
believed the young man on the steps had risen from a sick bed that morning.

It was five-o'clock when Harkless climbed the stairs to the "Herald" office, and his right
arm and hand were aching and limp. Below him, as he reached the landing, he could see boys
selling extras containing his speech (taken by the new reporter), and long accounts of the
convention, of the nominee's career, and the celebration of his home-coming. The sales were
rapid; for no one could resist the opportunity to read in print descriptions of what his eyes
had beheld and his ears had heard that day.

Ross Schofield was the only person in the editorial room, and there was nothing in his appearance
which should cause a man to start and fall back from the doorway; but that was what Harkless did.

"What's the matter, Mr. Harkless?" cried Ross, hurrying forward, fearing that the other had
been suddenly reseized by illness.

"What are those?" asked Harkless, with a gesture of his hand which seemed to include the entire
room.

"Those!" repeated Ross, staring blankly.

"Those rosettes--these streamers--that stovepipe--all this blue ribbon."

Ross turned pale. "Ribbon?" he said, inquiringly. "Ribbon?" He seemed unable to perceive the
decorations referred to.

"Yes," answered John; "these rosettes on the chairs, that band, and----"

"Oh!" Ross exclaimed. "That?" He fingered the band on the stovepipe as if he saw it for the
first time. "Yes; I see."

"But what are they for?" asked Harkless, touching one of the streamers curiously.

"Why--it's--it's likely meant for decorations."

John picked up the ink-well, staring in complete amazement at the hard knot of ribbon with
which it was garnished.

"They seem to have been here some time."

"They have; I reckon they're almost due to be called in. They've be'n up ever sence--sence----"

"Who put them up, Ross?"

"We did."

"What for?"

Ross was visibly embarrassed. "Why--fer--fer the other editor."

"For Mr. Fisbee?"

"Land, no! You don't suppose we'd go to work and bother to brisken things up fer that old gentleman,
do you?"

"I meant young Mr. Fisbee--he is the other editor, isn't he?"

"Oh!" said Ross, coughing. "Young Mr. Fisbee? Yes; we put 'em up fer him."

"You did! Did he appreciate them?"

"Well--he seemed to--kind of like 'em."

"Where is he now? I came here to find him."

"He's gone."

"Gone? Hasn't he been here this afternoon?"

"Yes; some 'the time. Come in and stayed durin' the leevy you was holdin', and saw the extra
off all right."

"When will he be back?"

"Sence it's be'n a daily he gits here by eight, after supper, but don't stay very late; the
new man and old Mr. Fisbee and Parker look after whatever comes in late, unless it's something
special. He'll likely be here by half-past eight at the farthest off."

"I can't wait till then." John took a quick turn about the room. "I've been wanting to see
him every minute since I got in," he said impatiently, "and he hasn't been near me. Nobody
could even point him out to me. Where has he gone? I want to see him now."

"Want to discharge him again?" said a voice from the door, and turning, they saw that Mr. Martin
stood there observing them.

"No," said Harkless; "I want to give him the 'Herald.' Do you know where he is?"

Mr. Martin stroked his beard deliberately. "The person you speak of hadn't ort to be very hard
to find--in Carlow. The committee was reckless enough to hire that carriage of yours by the
day, and Keating and Warren Smith are setting in it up at the corner, with their feet on the
cushions to show they're used to ridin' around with four white horses every day in the week.
It's waitin' till you're ready to go out to Briscoe's. It's an hour before supper time, and
you can talk to young Fisbee all you want. He's out there."

As they drove along the pike, Harkless's three companions kept up a conversation sprightly
beyond the mere exhilaration of the victorious; but John sat almost silent, and, in spite of
their liveliness, the others eyed him a little anxiously now and then, knowing that he had
been living on excitement through a physically exhausting day, and they were fearful lest his
nerves react and bring him to a breakdown. But the healthy flush of his cheek was reassuring;
he looked steady and strong, and they were pleased to believe that the stirring-up was what
he needed.

