The common ancestor of the present Guernsey family of the name of Brock was William Brock,
Esq., a native of the island, who died in the year 1776, and was the grandfather of the subject
of this volume. He had three sons and one daughter, who became connected by marriage with some
of the principal and most ancient families of Guernsey; namely, William, married to Judith,
daughter of James De Beauvoir, Esq.;[4] John, married to Elizabeth De Lisle, daughter of the
then lieutenant-bailiff of the island; Henry, married to Susan Saumarez, sister of the late
Admiral Lord de Saumarez; and Mary, wife of John Le Marchant, Esq[5]

John Brock, Esq., born January 24, 1729, second son of the above-named William, had by his
wife, Elizabeth De Lisle, a very numerous family of ten sons and four daughters, of whom eight
sons and two daughters reached maturity. He died in June, 1777, at Dinan, in Brittany, whither
he had gone for the benefit of the waters, at the early age of forty-eight years.[6] In his
youth he was a midshipman in the navy, and in that capacity had made a voyage to India, which
was then considered a great undertaking. As he was possessed of much activity of mind and considerable
talent, his death was an irreparable loss to his children, who were of an age to require all
the care and counsels of a father; the eldest, John, having only completed his seventeenth
year. They were left in independent, if not in affluent, circumstances; but the fond indulgence
of a widowed mother, who could deny them no enjoyment, tended, notwithstanding their long minority,
to diminish their patrimony.

Isaac Brock, the eighth son, was born in the parish of St. Peter-Port, Guernsey, on the 6th
of October, 1769, the year which gave birth to Napoleon and Wellington. In his boyhood he was,
like his brothers, unusually tall, robust, and precocious, and, with an appearance much beyond
his age, remarkable chiefly for extreme gentleness. In his eleventh year he was sent to school
at Southampton, and his education was concluded by his being placed for a twelvemonth under
a French Protestant clergyman at Rotterdam, for the purpose of learning the French language.
His eldest brother, John, a lieutenant in the 8th, the King's, regiment, being promoted to
a company by purchase, Isaac succeeded, also by purchase, to the ensigncy which consequently
became vacant in that regiment, and to which he was appointed on the 2d of March, 1785, soon
after he had completed his fifteenth year. He joined in England, and was quartered there in
different places for a few years. Having entered the army at so early an age, he happily felt
sensible of his deficiencies of education, and for a long period he devoted his leisure mornings
to study, locking the door of his room until one o'clock, to prevent intrusion. In 1790 he
was promoted to a lieutenantcy, and was quartered in Guernsey and Jersey. At the close of that
year he obtained an independent company, by raising the requisite number of men to complete
it, and was put on half pay. He exchanged soon after, by giving the difference, into the 49th,
which regiment he joined at Barbadoes, in 1791, and he remained doing duty there, and afterwards
at Jamaica, until 1793, when he was compelled to return very suddenly to England on sick leave,
having nearly fallen a victim to the pestilential effects of the climate, and an immediate
embarkation being pronounced his only chance of recovery. His first cousin, Lieutenant Henry
Brock, of the 13th foot, who was ill at the same time at Jamaica, died of the fever; and the
survivor always thought that he was indebted for his life to the affectionate attentions of
his servant, Dobson, whom he subsequently ever treated with the kindness of a brother, until
he died in his service shortly before himself, in Canada. The mention of the following trait
of great determination of character may serve as a guide to other young officers, similarly
circumstanced. When Captain Brock joined the 49th, the peace of the regiment was disturbed
by one of those vile pests of society--a confirmed duellist. Captain Brock soon proved to his
brother captain, who took advantage of being a dead shot, that he was neither to be bullied
nor intimidated, and the consequence was a challenge from the latter, which was promptly accepted.
On the ground, Captain Brock, who was very tall and athletic, observed that to stand at twelve
paces was not to meet his antagonist on any thing like equal terms, and, producing a handkerchief,
insisted on firing across it. This the duellist positively declined, and being in consequence
soon after compelled to leave the regiment, the officers were thus relieved, by the firm and
resolute conduct of a very young man, of the presence of one with whom all social intercourse
had previously been difficult and dangerous. On his return from Jamaica, Captain Brock was
employed on the recruiting service in England, and afterwards in charge of a number of recruits
at Jersey. On the 24th June, 1795, he purchased his majority, and remained in command of the
recruits until the return of the regiment to England the following year. On the 25th of October,
1797, just after he had completed his twenty-eighth year, Major Brock purchased his lieutenant-colonelcy,
and soon after became senior lieut.-colonel of the 49th. This was very rapid promotion for
one who had not only entered the army during a period of profound peace, but had been five
years an ensign, and, having no interest excepting that which his own merit might have procured
him, he was generally considered at that time as one of the most fortunate officers in the
service. In a little more than seven years, he had risen from an ensign to be a lieut.-colonel.
Owing to gross mismanagement and peculation on the part of his predecessor, who was in consequence
recommended privately to sell out, if he did not wish to stand the ordeal of a court martial,
the regiment was sadly disorganized; but the commander in chief, the late Duke of York, was
heard to declare that Lieut.-Colonel Brock, from one of the worst, had made the 49th one of
the best regiments in the service.

In 1798, the 49th was quartered in Jersey, whence it proceeded, to England early the following
year, to take part in the projected expedition to Holland, as in 1799 the British Government
determined on sending a strong military force to that country, then in alliance with the French
republic, which force was to be joined by a Russian army. The first English division, consisting
of twelve battalions of infantry, among which was the 49th, and a small body of cavalry, assembled
at Southampton under Sir Ralph Abercromby, and, having embarked, finally sailed from the Downs
early in August. On the 26th of that month, the fleet, consisting of fifteen ships of the line,
from forty-five to fifty frigates, sloops, and smaller vessels of war, and about one hundred
and thirty sail of transports, anchored along the coast of North Holland, from the mouth of
the Texel as far as Calants-Oge. Early the next morning, the flank companies were landed, under
the protection of the guns of the fleet. An engagement commenced as the British were about
to march forward; but being continually reinforced by the arrival of fresh troops, they compelled
the enemy to retreat. This warm engagement lasted till four o'clock in the afternoon, and cost
the British about 1,000 men. Sir Ralph Abercromby, having become master of the point, or peninsula,
of the Helder, completed his landing, entrenched his advanced posts toward the right, and occupied
with his left the point of the Helder, and the batteries there which had been evacuated. In
these positions he awaited the arrival of the second division, under the Duke of York, the
commander-in-chief, which remained in England until news were received of the landing of the
first on the coast of Holland. These two divisions were composed of thirty battalions of infantry,
of 600 men each, 500 cavalry, and a fine train of artillery.[7] During this campaign, Lieut.-Colonel
Brock distinguished himself in command of his regiment, which, on the 2d of October, in the
battle of Egmont-op-Zee, or Bergen, had Captain Archer and Ensign Ginn killed; and Major Hutchinson,
Captains Sharp and Robins, Lieutenant Urquhart and Ensign Hill, wounded; Lieutenant Johnston
missing, and supposed to be killed, exclusive of nearly one hundred non-commissioned officers
and privates killed and wounded.[8] In this action, Lieut.-Colonel Brock was slightly wounded,
although his name does not appear in the returns; and his life was in all probability preserved
by his wearing, as the weather was very cold, a stout cotton handkerchief over a thick black
silk cravat, both of which were perforated by a bullet, and which prevented its entering his
neck: the violence of the blow was, however, so great, as to stun and dismount him. The following
letter contains some interesting particulars relative to this campaign, and the part taken
in it by the 49th.

Lieutenant-Colonel Brock, 49th regiment, to his brother, brevet Lieutenant-Colonel John Brock,
81st regiment, at the Cape of Good Hope.

    "LONDON, November 26, 1799.

    "I was pretty constant in my correspondence with you whilst the
    regiment was quartered at Portsmouth, and no opportunity
    offered from thence direct to the Cape without taking letters
    and newspapers from either Savery or myself, and often from
    both; but the very active and busy life I have passed since put
    an end to all such communications. Knowing, however, that you
    will be gratified in hearing from my own pen the various
    incidents which have occurred since that time, I proceed to
    give you the substance of them. You will have seen in the
    public prints that the 49th embarked among the first regiments
    under Sir Ralph Abercromby, and that the army, amounting to
    about 10,000 men, after beating the seas from the 8th to the
    27th of August, effected a landing near the Helder; that the
    enemy most unaccountably offered no opposition to our landing;
    and that, after a well-contested fight of ten hours, he
    retreated, and left us in quiet possession of the Heights,
    extending the whole length of the Peninsula. The 4th Brigade,
    under General Moore,[9] consisting of the Royals, 25th, 49th,
    79th, and 92d, landed to the left, where the greatest
    opposition was expected, as it was natural to suppose that so
    essential an object as the Helder would be defended to the
    last, but, to our utter astonishment, the enemy gave us no
    annoyance; on the contrary, soon after the affair on the right
    had terminated, he evacuated the town, which we took quiet
    possession of the following morning, and with it the whole of
    the fleet. The garrison, consisting of 1,600 men, could easily
    have been intercepted had it not been for a large body of
    cavalry and a number of cannon, which completely commanded a
    plain of a mile and a half in breadth, necessary to be crossed
    to get to them: as we had neither the one nor the other, it
    would have been the height of folly to attempt it. The
    regiments which distinguished themselves most on this occasion
    were the 23d, 27th, and 55th. The evening of our landing, a
    reinforcement of 5,000 men arrived, but could not disembark
    until two days after, owing to the badness of the weather.
    During all this time the troops lay exposed on the sand hills,
    without the least shelter to cover them against the wind and
    rain. At length the army moved forward eleven miles, and got
    into cantonments along a canal extending the whole breadth of
    the country, from the Zuyder sea on the one side to the main
    ocean on the other, protected by an amazingly strong dyke,
    running half a mile in front of the line. In this position we
    remained unmolested until the 10th of September, on which day
    the enemy made a most desperate attack in three columns, two on
    the right and one on the centre of the line: he could not avoid
    being beaten, as it was the most injudicious step imaginable,
    and his loss was in proportion very great. The Guards, 20th,
    and 40th, acted conspicuous parts in this affair. The 49th was
    here again out of the way, with the exception indeed of Savery,
    whom nothing could keep from going to see what was doing on the
    right, and as it happened he proved of great use to Colonel
    Smith,[10] whom he assisted from the field after being wounded.
    The French soldier was taught to consider the British troops as
    the most undisciplined rabble in the world, and he advanced
    confident of conquest; but this affair, and others which
    followed, made him very soon change his opinion. Nothing
    remarkable occurred after this until the arrival of the Duke of
    York with the remainder of the British troops and 16,000
    Russians, which increased the army to about 35,000 men.
    Continued rain, however, prevented any thing being done before
    the 19th, when the whole army was put in motion. Sir Ralph took
    12,000, of which the 4th Brigade formed a part, to the left on
    the evening preceding, and got possession of the city of Horn
    the following morning at daylight, without a shot being fired:
    200 prisoners were taken. Horn is a very populous, handsome
    city, and evidently in the interest of the Prince of Orange.
    Nothing could exceed the joy of the inhabitants at our arrival,
    and in proportion as they rejoiced they mourned our departure,
    which took place before sun-set, in consequence of a fatal
    disaster which had befallen the Russians on the right. They of
    course threw the blame off their own shoulders, and wished to
    attribute the whole misfortune to the want of concert and a
    proper support on the part of the British; but I verily believe
    the real fact to be this. After most gallantly driving the
    enemy before them as far as Bergen, where it was previously
    arranged they should halt, they dispersed for the sake of
    plunder;--the French, hearing of this disorder, renewed the
    attack, and never gave the Russians an opportunity to form, but
    continued driving them with the bayonet until they encountered
    a body of English, under General Manners and Prince William,
    whose brigades suffered considerably. The Russians were,
    however, thus happily enabled to effect their retreat without
    further molestation; they were certainly the original cause of
    this disaster, but whether the British were sufficiently brisk
    in coming to their assistance, is doubted. The Russians in
    their persons are rather short of stature, and very thick and
    clumsy; they have nothing expressive in their features, but
    resemble much the Chinese countenance. I remarked an exception
    to this rule in a grenadier battalion, who, with tall, elegant
    persons, possessed remarkably fine, commanding faces. The
    officers in general are the most despicable wretches I ever
    saw: accustomed, as they have always been, to fight with troops
    much inferior to themselves, they thought themselves
    invincible. They take the field with an immense number of
    artillery, with which they cover their front and flanks, and
    thus never dreamed it possible, from their former experience,
    for troops to rally after being once beaten. This fatal
    security was the cause of the misfortune which befell the
    allies on the 19th. After the retreat from Horn, the 4th
    brigade took its station on the right, preparatory evidently to
    being actively employed; accordingly, on the 2d of October, the
    weather not permitting it sooner, the brigade assembled before
    daylight at Petten, and formed the advanced guard of a column,
    consisting of 10,000 men, which was to proceed along the beach
    to Egmont-op-Zee. After every thing had been properly arranged,
    it moved forward, supported by 1,000 cavalry, under Lord Paget.
    It was intended that the reserve, under Colonel M'Donald,
    should cover our flank, and that the column should rapidly
    advance to Egmont, in order to turn the flank of the enemy at
    Bergen. This was, however, prevented by a strong body of the
    enemy, who engaged the reserve the moment it ascended the sand
    hills; and although he retreated before the reserve, he
    constrained Colonel M'Donald to follow in a different direction
    to that intended, thereby leaving our left flank uncovered. But
    this did not impede our moving forward, and it was not until we
    had proceeded five or six miles that we found the least
    opposition. The enemy then appeared in small force, and the
    25th was ordered up the sand hills, but, he having increased,
    the 79th followed, and it was not long before the 49th was also
    ordered to form on the left of that regiment. It is impossible
    to give you an adequate idea of the nature of the ground, which
    I can only compare to the sea in a storm. On my getting to the
    left of the 79th, I found that its flank was already turned,
    and that the ground, which we were to occupy, did not afford
    the least shelter: my determination was instantly taken. I had
    gone on horseback to view the ground, and on my return to the
    regiment, which I met advancing, I found the left actually
    engaged with the enemy, who had advanced much beyond our left.
    I, however, continued advancing with six companies, and left
    Colonel Sheaffe with the other four to cover our left: the
    instant I came up to the 79th, I ordered a charge, which I
    assure you was executed with the greatest gallantry, though not
    in the greatest order, as the nature of the ground admitted of
    none. The enemy, however, gave way on every side, and our loss
    would have been very trifling had the 79th charged
    straightforward; but unfortunately it followed the course the
    49th had taken, thereby leaving our right entirely exposed. I
    detached Lord Aylmer[11] with the grenadiers, who, after
    charging different times, totally cleared our right. The 25th
    then advanced, and behaved with the greatest good conduct. The
    enemy after this never attempted to make a stand, but continued
    to retreat, and their loss on this occasion was very
    considerable. Nothing could exceed the gallantry of the 25th,
    49th, 79th, and 92d. For my own part, I had every reason to be
    satisfied with the conduct of both officers and men, and no
    commanding officer could be more handsomely supported than I
    was on that day, ever glorious to the 49th. Poor Archer brought
    his company to the attack in a most soldierlike manner; and
    even after he had received his mortal wound, he animated his
    men, calling on them to go on to victory, to glory; and no
    order could be more effectually obeyed: he is an irreparable
    loss to the service. I got knocked down soon after the enemy
    began to retreat, but never quitted the field, and returned to
    my duty in less than half an hour. Savery acted during the
    whole day as aide-de-camp either to Sir Ralph or Moore, and
    nothing could surpass his activity and gallantry. He had a
    horse shot under him, and had all this been in his line, he
    must have been particularly noticed, as he has become the
    astonishment of all who saw him. We remained that night and the
    following on the sand hills; you cannot conceive our wretched
    state, as it blew and rained nearly the whole time. Our men
    bore all this without grumbling, although they had nothing to
    eat but the biscuits they carried with them, which by this time
    were completely wet. We at length got into Egmont, and on the
    following day (5th) into Alkmaar, where we enjoyed ourselves
    amazingly. Alkmaar is a most delightful city; but the
    inhabitants are rank patriots, and none of the higher class
    remained to welcome our arrival. The following day another
    engagement ensued,[12] in consequence of the Russians advancing
    further than they were ordered to do: during this severe
    contest we were snugly in church. It is extraordinary that both
    parties were so beaten as to find a retreat necessary, as while
    we retreated to our old position, the enemy was also in full
    retreat. I shall say no more of the expedition to Holland, as
    what remains to be added, you will see fully detailed in the
    papers. I go to Norwich, where the regiment is quartered, this
    evening. Another expedition is talked of, under Lord Moira.
    Adieu."

In the battle of Egmont-op-Zee, seven pieces of cannon, a great number of tumbrils, and a few
hundred prisoners, were taken, and the loss of the enemy was estimated as exceeding 4,000 men.
Major-General Moore, in whose brigade was the 49th, although severely wounded through the thigh,
continued in action for nearly two hours, until a second wound in the face obliged him to quit
the field. In his dispatch relative to this battle, the Duke of York observed, that "under
Divine Providence this signal victory obtained over the enemy, is to be attributed to the animating
and persevering exertions which have at all times been the characteristics of the British soldier,
and which on no occasion were ever more eminently displayed." The following extract from this
dispatch, dated Alkmaar, 6th of October, will shew the part borne in the engagement by Sir
Ralph Abercromby's division, in which was Major-General Moore's brigade.

    "This was the last event which took place on the side of
    Bergen; and, as the close of the day was fast approaching,
    Colonel Macdonald with two battalions was sent to the support
    of General Sir Ralph Abercromby. The heights of the sand hills,
    surrounding Bergen for about three miles, remained crowned and
    possessed by about eleven British battalions. General Sir
    Ralph Abercromby had marched, according to the disposition,
    along the beach, with Major-General D'Oyley's, Major-General
    Moore's, and Major General Lord Cavan's brigades, the cavalry
    and horse artillery, (the reserve under Colonel Macdonald not
    having been able, owing to the great extent of the sand hills,
    to rejoin him, after turning to the left at Campe.) The main
    body of Sir Ralph Abercromby's column had proceeded, without
    meeting with much resistance, in the early part of the day, but
    was nevertheless much inconvenienced, and his troops harassed,
    by the necessity of detaching continually into the sand hills
    to his left, to cover that flank against the troops whom the
    enemy had placed in the sand hills. The admirable disposition,
    however, which he made of his troops, and their determined
    spirit and gallantry, enabled him to arrive within a mile of
    Egmont. Here he was seriously opposed by a very considerable
    corps of French infantry, which occupied Egmont-op-Zee, and the
    high sand hills in its front, and who had formed a very strong
    corps of cavalry and artillery to their left. The engagement
    was maintained during several hours with the greatest
    obstinacy; and in no instance were the abilities of a
    commander, or the heroic perseverance of troops in so difficult
    and trying a situation, more highly conspicuous. Animated by
    the example of General Sir Ralph Abercromby, and the generals
    and officers under him, the troops sustained every effort made
    upon them by an enemy then superior in numbers, and much
    favoured by the strength of his position. Late in the evening,
    the enemy's cavalry, having been defeated in an attempt which
    they made upon the British horse artillery on the beach, and
    having been charged by the cavalry under Colonel Lord Paget,
    was driven, with considerable loss, nearly to Egmont-op-Zee;
    his efforts then relaxed considerably on the right; and General
    Sir Ralph Abercromby, having soon after been joined by the
    reinforcements under Colonel Macdonald, took post upon the
    sand hills and the beach, within a very short distance of
    Egmont-op-Zee, where the troops lay upon their arms during the
    night."

