The married life of Faraday was eminently happy. In his wife he found, at the same time, a
true helpmate and soul-mate. She supported, cheered, and strengthened him on his way through
life, giving him "the clear contentment of a heart at ease." In his diary he speaks of his
marriage as "a source of honour and happiness far exceeding all the rest." After twentyeight
years' experience, he spoke of it as "an event which, more than any other, had contributed
to his earthly happiness and healthy state of mind.... The union [20said he] has in nowise
changed, except only in the depth and strength of its character." And for six-and-forty years
did the union continue unbroken; the love of the old man remaining as fresh, as earnest, as
heart-whole, as in the days of his impetuous youth. In this case, marriage was as--

"A golden chain let down from heaven, Whose links are bright and even; That falls like sleep
on lovers, and combines The soft and sweetest minds In equal knots."

Nor was he unconscious of her worth. In one of his letters to her, when absent from his side,
Hood said: "I never was anything, Dearest, till I knew you; and I have been a better, happier,
and more prosperous man ever since. Lay by that truth in lavender, Sweetest, and remind me
of it when I fail. I am writing warmly and fondly, but not without good cause. First, your
own affectionate letter, lately received; next, the remembrance of our dear children, pledges--what
darling ones!--of our old familiar love; then, a delicious impulse to pour out the overflowings
of my heart into yours; and last, not least, the knowledge that your dear eyes will read what
my hand is now writing. Perhaps there is an afterthought that, whatever may befall me, the
wife of my bosom will have the acknowledgment of her tenderness, worth, excellence--all that
is wifely or womanly, from my pen." In another letter, also written to his wife during a brief
absence, there is a natural touch, showing his deep affection for her: "I went and retraced
our walk in the park, and sat down on the same seat, and felt happier and better."

But not only was Mrs. Hood a consoler, she was also a helper of her husband in his special
work. He had such confidence in her judgment, that he read, and re-read, and corrected with
her assistance all that he wrote. Many of his pieces were first dedicated to her; and her ready
memory often supplied him with the necessary references and quotations. Thus, in the roll of
noble wives of men of genius, Mrs. Hood will always be entitled to take a foremost place.

Not less effective as a literary helper was Lady Napier, the wife of Sir William Napier, historian
of the Peninsular War. She encouraged him to undertake the work, and without her help he would
have experienced great difficulty in completing it. She translated and epitomized the immense
mass of original documents, many of them in cipher, on which it was in a great measure founded.
When the Duke of Wellington was told of the art and industry she had displayed in deciphering
King Joseph's portfolio, and the immense mass of correspondence taken at Vittoria, he at first
would hardly believe it, adding--"I would have given 20,000L. to any person who could have
done this for me in the Peninsula." Sir William Napier's handwriting being almost illegible,
Lady Napier made out his rough interlined manuscript, which he himself could scarcely read,
and wrote out a full fair copy for the printer; and all this vast labour she undertook and
accomplished, according to the testimony of her husband, without having for a moment neglected
the care and education of a large family. When Sir William lay on his deathbed, Lady Napier
was at the same time dangerously ill; but she was wheeled into his room on a sofa, and the
two took their silent farewell of each other. The husband died first; in a few weeks the wife
followed him, and they sleep side by side in the same grave.

Many other similar truehearted wives rise up in the memory, to recite whose praises would more
than fill up our remaining space--such as Flaxman's wife, Ann Denham, who cheered and encouraged
her husband through life in the prosecution of his art, accompanying him to Rome, sharing in
his labours and anxieties, and finally in his triumphs, and to whom Flaxman, in the fortieth
year of their married life, dedicated his beautiful designs illustrative of Faith, Hope, and
Charity, in token of his deep and undimmed affection;--such as Katherine Boutcher, "dark-eyed
Kate," the wife of William Blake, who believed her husband to be the first genius on earth,
worked off the impressions of his plates and coloured them beautifully with her own hand, bore
with him in all his erratic ways, sympathised with him in his sorrows and joys for forty-five
years, and comforted him until his dying hour--his last sketch, made in his seventy-first year,
being a likeness of himself, before making which, seeing his wife crying by his side, he said,
"Stay, Kate! just keep as you are; I will draw your portrait, for you have ever been an angel
to me;"--such again as Lady Franklin, the true and noble woman, who never rested in her endeavours
to penetrate the secret of the Polar Sea and prosecute the search for her long-lost husband--undaunted
by failure, and persevering in her determination with a devotion and singleness of purpose
altogether unparalleled;--or such again as the wife of Zimmermann, whose intense melancholy
she strove in vain to assuage, sympathizing with him, listening to him, and endeavouring to
understand him--and to whom, when on her deathbed, about to leave him for ever, she addressed
the touching words, "My poor Zimmermann! who will now understand thee?"

Wives have actively helped their husbands in other ways. Before Weinsberg surrendered to its
besiegers, the women of the place asked permission of the captors to remove their valuables.
The permission was granted, and shortly after, the women were seen issuing from the gates carrying
their husbands on their shoulders. Lord Nithsdale owed his escape from prison to the address
of his wife, who changed garments with him, sending him forth in her stead, and herself remaining
prisoner,--an example which was successfully repeated by Madame de Lavalette.

But the most remarkable instance of the release of a husband through the devotion of a wife,
was that of the celebrated Grotius. He had lain for nearly twenty months in the strong fortress
of Loevestein, near Gorcum, having been condemned by the government of the United Provinces
to perpetual imprisonment. His wife, having been allowed to share his cell, greatly relieved
his solitude. She was permitted to go into the town twice a week, and bring her husband books,
of which he required a large number to enable him to prosecute his studies. At length a large
chest was required to hold them. This the sentries at first examined with great strictness,
but, finding that it only contained books [20amongst others Arminian books] and linen, they
at length gave up the search, and it was allowed to pass out and in as a matter of course.
This led Grotius' wife to conceive the idea of releasing him; and she persuaded him one day
to deposit himself in the chest instead of the outgoing books. When the two soldiers appointed
to remove it took it up, they felt it to be considerably heavier than usual, and one of them
asked, jestingly, "Have we got the Arminian himself here?" to which the ready-witted wife replied,
"Yes, perhaps some Arminian books." The chest reached Gorcum in safety; the captive was released;
and Grotius escaped across the frontier into Brabant, and afterwards into France, where he
was rejoined by his wife.

Trial and suffering are the tests of married life. They bring out the real character, and often
tend to produce the closest union. They may even be the spring of the purest happiness. Uninterrupted
joy, like uninterrupted success, is not good for either man or woman. When Heine's wife died,
he began to reflect upon the loss he had sustained. They had both known poverty, and struggled
through it hand-in-hand; and it was his greatest sorrow that she was taken from him at the
moment when fortune was beginning to smile upon him, but too late for her to share in his prosperity.
"Alas I" said he, "amongst my griefs must I reckon even her love--the strongest, truest, that
ever inspired the heart of woman--which made me the happiest of mortals, and yet was to me
a fountain of a thousand distresses, inquietudes, and cares? To entire cheerfulness, perhaps,
she never attained; but for what unspeakable sweetness, what exalted, enrapturing joys, is
not love indebted to sorrow! Amidst growing anxieties, with the torture of anguish in my heart,
I have been made, even by the loss which caused me this anguish and these anxieties, inexpressibly
happy! When tears flowed over our cheeks, did not a nameless, seldom-felt delight stream through
my breast, oppressed equally by joy and sorrow!"

There is a degree of sentiment in German love which seems strange to English readers,--such
as we find depicted in the lives of Novalis, Jung Stilling, Fichte, Jean Paul, and others that
might be named. The German betrothal is a ceremony of almost equal importance to the marriage
itself; and in that state the sentiments are allowed free play, whilst English lovers are restrained,
shy, and as if ashamed of their feelings. Take, for instance, the case of Herder, whom his
future wife first saw in the pulpit. "I heard," she says, "the voice of an angel, and soul's
words such as I had never heard before. In the afternoon I saw him, and stammered out my thanks
to him; from this time forth our souls were one." They were betrothed long before their means
would permit them to marry; but at length they were united. "We were married," says Caroline,
the wife, "by the rose-light of a beautiful evening. We were one heart, one soul." Herder was
equally ecstatic in his language. "I have a wife," he wrote to Jacobi, "that is the tree, the
consolation, and the happiness of my life. Even in flying transient thoughts [20which often
surprise us], we are one!"

Take, again, the case of Fichte, in whose history his courtship and marriage form a beautiful
episode. He was a poor German student, living with a family at Zurich in the capacity of tutor,
when he first made the acquaintance of Johanna Maria Hahn, a niece of Klopstock. Her position
in life was higher than that of Fichte; nevertheless, she regarded him with sincere admiration.
When Fichte was about to leave Zurich, his troth plighted to her, she, knowing him to be very
poor, offered him a gift of money before setting out. He was inexpressibly hurt by the offer,
and, at first, even doubted whether she could really love him; but, on second thoughts, he
wrote to her, expressing his deep thanks, but, at the same time, the impossibility of his accepting
such a gift from her. He succeeded in reaching his destination, though entirely destitute of
means. After a long and hard struggle with the world, extending over many years, Fichte was
at length earning money enough to enable him to marry. In one of his charming letters to his
betrothed he said:--"And so, dearest, I solemnly devote myself to thee, and thank thee that
thou hast thought me not unworthy to be thy companion on the journey of life.... There is no
land of happiness here below--I know it now--but a land of toil, where every joy but strengthens
us for greater labour. Hand-in-hand we shall traverse it, and encourage and strengthen each
other, until our spirits--oh, may it be together!--shall rise to the eternal fountain of all
peace."

The married life of Fichte was very happy. His wife proved a true and highminded helpmate.
During the War of Liberation she was assiduous in her attention to the wounded in the hospitals,
where she caught a malignant fever, which nearly carried her off. Fichte himself caught the
same disease, and was for a time completely prostrated; but he lived for a few more years and
died at the early age of fifty-two, consumed by his own fire.

What a contrast does the courtship and married life of the blunt and practical William Cobbett
present to the aesthetical and sentimental love of these highly refined Germans! Not less honest,
not less true, but, as some would think, comparatively coarse and vulgar. When he first set
eyes upon the girl that was afterwards to become his wife, she was only thirteen years old,
and he was twenty-one--a sergeant-major in a foot regiment stationed at St. John's in New Brunswick.
He was passing the door of her father's house one day in winter, and saw the girl out in the
snow, scrubbing a washing-tub. He said at once to himself, "That's the girl for me." He made
her acquaintance, and resolved that she should be his wife so soon as he could get discharged
from the army.

On the eve of the girl's return to Woolwich with her father, who was a sergeant-major in the
artillery, Cobbett sent her a hundred and fifty guineas which he had saved, in order that she
might be able to live without hard work until his return to England. The girl departed, taking
with her the money; and five years later Cobbett obtained his discharge. On reaching London,
he made haste to call upon the sergeant-major's daughter. Admiration of her conduct was now
added to love of her person, and Cobbett shortly after married the girl, who proved an excellent
wife. He was, indeed, never tired of speaking her praises, and it was his pride to attribute
to her all the comfort and much of the success of his after-life.

Though Cobbett was regarded by many in his lifetime as a coarse, hard, practical man, full
of prejudices, there was yet a strong undercurrent of poetry in his nature; and, while he declaimed
against sentiment, there were few men more thoroughly imbued with sentiment of the best kind.
He had the tenderest regard for the character of woman. He respected her purity and her virtue,
and in his 'Advice to Young Men,' he has painted the true womanly woman--the helpful, cheerful,
affectionate wife--with a vividness and brightness, and, at the same time, a force of good
sense, that has never been surpassed by any English writer. Cobbett was anything but refined,
in the conventional sense of the word; but he was pure, temperate, self-denying, industrious,
vigorous, and energetic, in an eminent degree. Many of his views were, no doubt, wrong, but
they were his own, for he insisted on thinking for himself in everything. Though few men took
a firmer grasp of the real than he did, perhaps still fewer were more swayed by the ideal.
In word-pictures of his own emotions, he is unsurpassed. Indeed, Cobbett might almost be regarded
as one of the greatest prose poets of English real life.

CHAPTER XII--THE DISCIPLINE OF EXPERIENCE.

      "I would the great would grow like thee.
        Who grewest not alone in power
        And knowledge, but by year and hour
      In reverence and in charity."--TENNYSON.

      "Not to be unhappy is unhappynesse,
      And misery not t'have known miserie;
      For the best way unto discretion is
      The way that leades us by adversitie;
      And men are better shew'd what is amisse,
      By th'expert finger of calamitie,
      Than they can be with all that fortune brings,
      Who never shewes them the true face of things."--DANIEL.

      "A lump of wo affliction is,
      Yet thence I borrow lumps of bliss;
      Though few can see a blessing in't,
      It is my furnace and my mint."
             --ERSKINE'S GOSPEL SONNETS.

    "Crosses grow anchors, bear as thou shouldst so
    Thy cross, and that cross grows an anchor too."--DONNE.

        "Be the day weary, or be the day long,
        At length it ringeth to Evensong."--ANCIENT COUPLET.

Practical wisdom is only to be learnt in the school of experience. Precepts and instructions
are useful so far as they go, but, without the discipline of real life, they remain of the
nature of theory only. The hard facts of existence have to be faced, to give that touch of
truth to character which can never be imparted by reading or tuition, but only by contact with
the broad instincts of common men and women.

To be worth anything, character must be capable of standing firm upon its feet in the world
of daily work, temptation, and trial; and able to bear the wear-and-tear of actual life. Cloistered
virtues do not count for much. The life that rejoices in solitude may be only rejoicing in
selfishness. Seclusion may indicate contempt for others; though more usually it means indolence,
cowardice, or self-indulgence. To every human being belongs his fair share of manful toil and
human duty; and it cannot be shirked without loss to the individual himself, as well as to
the community to which he belongs. It is only by mixing in the daily life of the world, and
taking part in its affairs, that practical knowledge can be acquired, and wisdom learnt. It
is there that we find our chief sphere of duty, that we learn the discipline of work, and that
we educate ourselves in that patience, diligence, and endurance which shape and consolidate
the character. There we encounter the difficulties, trials, and temptations which, according
as we deal with them, give a colour to our entire after-life; and there, too, we become subject
to the great discipline of suffering, from which we learn far more than from the safe seclusion
of the study or the cloister. Hazlitt thought the most sensible people to be met with are intelligent
men of business and of the world, who argue from what they see and know, instead of spinning
cobweb distinctions of what things ought to be.

For the same reason, women often display more good sense than men, having fewer pretensions,
and judging of things naturally, by the involuntary impression they make on the mind. Their
intuitive powers are quicker, their perceptions more acute, their sympathies more lively, and
their manners more adaptive to particular ends. Hence their greater tact as displayed in the
management of others, women of apparently slender intellectual powers often contriving to control
and regulate the conduct of men of even the most impracticable nature. Pope paid a high compliment
to the tact and good sense of Mary, Queen of William III., when he described her as possessing,
not a science, but [21what was worth all else] prudence.

The whole of life may be regarded as a great school of experience, in which men and women are
the pupils. As in a school, many of the lessons learnt there must needs be taken on trust.
We may not understand them, and may possibly think it hard that we have to learn them, especially
where the teachers are trials, sorrows, temptations, and difficulties; and yet we must not
only accept their lessons, but recognise them as being divinely appointed.

To what extent have the pupils profited by their experience in the school of life? What advantage
have they taken of their opportunities for learning? What have they gained in discipline of
heart and mind?--how much in growth of wisdom, courage, self-control? Have they preserved their
integrity amidst prosperity, and enjoyed life in temperance and moderation? Or, has life been
with them a mere feast of selfishness, without care or thought for others? What have they learnt
from trial and adversity? Have they learnt patience, submission, and trust in God?--or have
they learnt nothing but impatience, querulousness, and discontent?

A little youthful ardour is a great help in life, and is useful as an energetic motive power.
It is gradually cooled down by Time, no matter how glowing it has been, while it is trained
and subdued by experience. But it is a healthy and hopeful indication of character,--to be
encouraged in a right direction, and not to be sneered down and repressed. It is a sign of
a vigorous unselfish nature, as egotism is of a narrow and selfish one; and to begin life with
egotism and self-sufficiency is fatal to all breadth and vigour of character. Life, in such
a case, would be like a year in which there was no spring. Without a generous seedtime, there
will be an unflowering summer and an unproductive harvest. And youth is the springtime of life,
in which, if there be not a fair share of enthusiasm, little will be attempted, and still less
done. It also considerably helps the working quality, inspiring confidence and hope, and carrying
one through the dry details of business and duty with cheerfulness and joy.

"It is the due admixture of romance and reality," said Sir Henry Lawrence, "that best carries
a man through life... The quality of romance or enthusiasm is to be valued as an energy imparted
to the human mind to prompt and sustain its noblest efforts." Sir Henry always urged upon young
men, not that they should repress enthusiasm, but sedulously cultivate and direct the feeling,
as one implanted for wise and noble purposes. "When the two faculties of romance and reality,"
he said, "are duly blended, reality pursues a straight rough path to a desirable and practicable
result; while romance beguiles the road by pointing out its beauties--by bestowing a deep and
practical conviction that, even in this dark and material existence, there may be found a joy
with which a stranger intermeddleth not--a light that shineth more and more unto the perfect
day." [211]

It was characteristic of Joseph Lancaster, when a boy of only fourteen years of age, after
reading 'Clarkson on the Slave Trade,' to form the resolution of leaving his home and going
out to the West Indies to teach the poor blacks to read the Bible. And he actually set out
with a Bible and 'Pilgrim's Progress' in his bundle, and only a few shillings in his purse.
He even succeeded in reaching the West Indies, doubtless very much at a loss how to set about
his proposed work; but in the meantime his distressed parents, having discovered whither he
had gone, had him speedily brought back, yet with his enthusiasm unabated; and from that time
forward he unceasingly devoted himself to the truly philanthropic work of educating the destitute
poor. [212]

There needs all the force that enthusiasm can give to enable a man to succeed in any great
enterprise of life. Without it, the obstruction and difficulty he has to encounter on every
side might compel him to succumb; but with courage and perseverance, inspired by enthusiasm,
a man feels strong enough to face any danger, to grapple with any difficulty. What an enthusiasm
was that of Columbus, who, believing in the existence of a new world, braved the dangers of
unknown seas; and when those about him despaired and rose up against him, threatening to cast
him into the sea, still stood firm upon his hope and courage until the great new world at length
rose upon the horizon! When a friend of Marshal Lefevre was complimenting him on his possessions
and good fortune, the Marshal said: "You envy me, do you? Well, you shall have these things
at a better bargain than I had. Come into the court: I'll fire at you with a gun twenty times
at thirty paces, and if I don't kill you, all shall be your own. What! you won't! Very well;
recollect, then, that I have been shot at more than a thousand times, and much nearer, before
I arrived at the state in which you now find me!"

The apprenticeship of difficulty is one which the greatest of men have had to serve. It is
usually the best stimulus and discipline of character. It often evokes powers of action that,
but for it, would have remained dormant. As comets are sometimes revealed by eclipses, so heroes
are brought to light by sudden calamity. It seems as if, in certain cases, genius, like iron
struck by the flint, needed the sharp and sudden blow of adversity to bring out the divine
spark. There are natures which blossom and ripen amidst trials, which would only wither and
decay in an atmosphere of ease and comfort.

Thus it is good for men to be roused into action and stiffened into self-reliance by difficulty,
rather than to slumber away their lives in useless apathy and indolence. [213] It is the struggle
that is the condition of victory. If there were no difficulties, there would be no need of
efforts; if there were no temptations, there would be no training in self-control, and but
little merit in virtue; if there were no trial and suffering, there would be no education in
patience and resignation. Thus difficulty, adversity, and suffering are not all evil, but often
the best source of strength, discipline, and virtue. An odd volume of Racine, purchased by
chance at a stall on the quay, created the poet of Toulon."

The Spaniards are even said to have meanly rejoiced the poverty of Cervantes, but for which
they supposed the production of his great works might have been prevented. When the Archbishop
of Toledo visited the French ambassador at Madrid, the gentlemen in the suite of the latter
expressed their high admiration of the writings of the author of 'Don Quixote,' and intimated
their desire of becoming acquainted with one who had given them so much pleasure. The answer
they received was, that Cervantes had borne arms in the service of his country, and was now
old and poor. "What!" exclaimed one of the Frenchmen, "is not Senor Cervantes in good circumstances?
Why is he not maintained, then, out of the public treasury?" "Heaven forbid!" was the reply,
"that his necessities should be ever relieved, if it is those which make him write; since it
is his poverty that makes the world rich!" [214]

It is not prosperity so much as adversity, not wealth so much as poverty, that stimulates the
perseverance of strong and healthy natures, rouses their energy and developes their character.
Burke said of himself: "I was not rocked, and swaddled, and dandled into a legislator. 'NITOR
IN ADVERSUM' is the motto for a man like you." Some men only require a great difficulty set
in their way to exhibit the force of their character and genius; and that difficulty once conquered
becomes one of the greatest incentives to their further progress.

It is a mistake to suppose that men succeed through success; they much oftener succeed through
failure. By far the best experience of men is made up of their remembered failures in dealing
with others in the affairs of life. Such failures, in sensible men, incite to better self-management,
and greater tact and self-control, as a means of avoiding them in the future. Ask the diplomatist,
and he will tell you that he has learned his art through being baffled, defeated, thwarted,
and circumvented, far more than from having succeeded. Precept, study, advice, and example
could never have taught them so well as failure has done. It has disciplined them experimentally,
and taught them what to do as well as what NOT to do--which is often still more important in
diplomacy.

