In the meantime, the day breaking in upon us, discovered to one another the faces of their
fellow travellers: and I had the good fortune to find my mistress not quite so deformed nor
disagreeable as she had been represented to me. Her head, indeed, bore some resemblance to
a hatchet, the edge being represented by her face; but she had a certain delicacy in her complexion,
and a great deal of vivacity in her eyes, which were very large and black; and, though the
protuberance of her breast, when considered alone, seemed to drag her forwards, it was easy
to perceive an equivalent on her back which balanced the other, and kept her body in equilibrio.
On the whole, I thought I should have great reason to congratulate myself if it should be my
fate to possess twenty thousand pounds encumbered with such a wife. I began therefore to deliberate
about the most probable means of acquiring the conquest, and was so much engrossed by this
idea, that I scarce took any notice of the rest of the people in the coach, but revolved my
project in silence; while the conversation was maintained as before by the object of my hopes,
the son of Mars, and the barrister, who by this time recollected himself, and talked in terms
as much as ever. At length a dispute happened, which ended in a wager, to be determined by
me, who was so much absorbed in contemplation, that I neither heard the reference nor the question
which was put to me by each in his turn. Affronted at my supposed contempt, the soldier with
great vociferation swore I was either dumb or deaf if not both, and that I looked as if I could
not say Bo to a goose. Aroused at this observation, I fixed my eyes upon him, and pronounced
with emphasis the interjection Bo! Upon which he cocked his hat in a fierce manner, and cried,
"D--me sir, what d'ye mean by that." Had I intended to answer him, which by the by was not
my design, I should have been anticipated by Miss, who told him, my meaning was to show, that
I could cry Bo to a goose; and laughed very heartily at my laconic reproof. Her explanation
and mirth did not help to appease his wrath, which broke out in several martial insinuations,
such as--"I do not understand such freedoms, d--me! D--n my blood! I'm a gentleman, and bear
the king's commission. 'Sblood! some people deserve to have their noses pulled for their impertinence."
I thought to have checked these ejaculations by a frown; because he had talked so much of his
valour that I had long ago rated him as an ass in a lion's skin; but this expedient did not
answer my expectation, he took umbrage at the contraction of my brow, swore he did not value
my sulky looks a fig's end, and protested he feared no man breathing. Miss Snapper said, she
was very glad to find herself in company with a man of so much courage, who, she did not doubt,
would protect her from all the attempts of highwaymen during our journey. "Make yourself perfectly
easy on that head, madam," replied the officer. "I have got a pair of pistols (here they are),
which I took from a horse officer at the battle of Dettingen; they are double loaded, and if
any highwayman in England robs you of the value of a pin while I have the honour of being in
your company, d--n my heart." When he had expressed himself in this manner, a prim gentlewoman,
who had sat silent hitherto, opened her mouth, and said, she wondered how any man could be
so rude as to pull out such weapons before ladies. "D--me, madam," cried the champion, "if
you are so much afraid at the sight of a pistol, how d'ye propose to stand fire if there should
be occasion?" She then told him that, if she thought he could be so unmannerly as to use fire-arms
in her presence, whatever might be the occasion, she would get out of the coach immediately,
and walk to the next village, where she might procure a convenience to herself. Before he could
make any answer, my Dulcinea interposed, and observed that, far from being offended at a gentleman's
using his arms in his own defence, she thought herself very lucky in being along with one by
whose valour she stood a good chance of saving herself from being rifled. The prude cast a
disdainful look at Miss, and said that people, who have but little to lose, are sometimes the
most solicitous about preserving it. The old lady was affronted at this inuendo, and took notice,
that people ought to be very well informed before they speak slightingly of other people's
fortune, lest they discover their own envy, and make themselves ridiculous. The daughter declared,
that she did not pretend to vie with anybody in point of riches; and if the lady, who insisted
upon non-resistance, would promise to indemnify us all for the loss we should sustain, she
would be one of the first to persuade the captain to submission, in case we should be attacked.
To this proposal, reasonable as it was, the reserved lady made no other reply than a scornful
glance and a toss of her head. I was very well pleased with the spirit of my young mistress,
and even wished for an opportunity of distinguishing my courage under her eye, which I believed
could not fail of prepossessing her in my favour, when all of a sudden Strap rode up to the
coach door, and told us in a great fright, that two men on horseback were crossing the heath
(for by this time we had passed Hounslow), and made directly towards us.

This piece of information was no sooner delivered, than Mrs. Snapper began to scream, her daughter
grew pale, the old lady pulled out her purse to be in readiness, the lawyer's teeth chattered,
while he pronounced, "'Tis no matter--we'll sue the county and recover." The captain gave evident
signs of confusion: and I, after having commanded the coachman to stop, opened the door, jumped
out, and invited the warrior to follow me. But, finding him backward and astonished, I took
his pistols, and, giving them to Strap, who had by this time alighted and trembled very much,
I mounted on horseback; and, taking my own (which I could better depend upon) from the holsters,
cocked them both, and faced the robbers, who were now very near us. Seeing me ready to oppose
them on horseback, and another man armed a-foot, they made a halt at some distance to reconnoitre
us: and after having rode round us twice, myself still facing about as they rode, went off
the same way they came, at a hand gallop. A gentleman's servant coming up with a horse at the
same time, I offered him a crown to assist me in pursuing them, which he no sooner accepted,
than I armed him with the officer's pistols, and we galloped after the thieves, who, trusting
to the swiftness of their horses, stopped till we came within shot of them and then, firing
at us, put their nags to the full speed. We followed them as fast as our beasts could carry
us; but, not being so well mounted as they, our efforts would have been to little purpose,
had not the horse of one of them stumbled, and thrown his rider with such violence over his
head, that he lay senseless when we came up, and was taken without the least opposition; while
his comrade consulted his own safety in flight, without regarding the distress of his friend.
We scarce had time to make ourselves masters of his arms, and tie his hands together, before
he recovered his senses, when, learning his situation he affected surprise, demanded to know
by what authority we used a gentleman in that manner, and had the impudence to threaten us
with a prosecution for robbery. In the meantime, we perceived Strap coming up with a crowd
of people, armed up with different kinds of weapons; and among the rest a farmer, who no sooner
perceived the thief, whom we had secured, than he cried with great emotion, "There's the fellow
who robbed me an hour ago of twenty pounds, in a canvas bag." He was immediately searched,
and the money found exactly as it had been described; upon which we committed him to the charge
of the countryman, who carried him to the town of Hounslow, which, it seems, the farmer had
alarmed; and I, having satisfied the footman for his trouble, according to promise, returned
with Strap to the coach, where I found the captain and lawyer busy in administering smelling
bottles and cordials to the grave lady, who had gone into a fit at the noise of firing.

When I had taken my seat, Miss Snapper, who from the coach had seen everything that happened;
made me a compliment on my behaviour, and said she was glad to see me returned without having
received any injury; her mother too owned herself obliged to my resolution: the lawyer told
me, that I was entitled by act of parliament to a reward of forty pounds, for having apprehended
a highwayman. The soldier observed, with a countenance in which impudence and shame struggling,
produced some disorder, that if I had not been in such a d--d hurry to get out of the coach,
he would have secured the rogues effectually, without all this bustle and loss of time, by
a scheme, which my heat and precipitation ruined. "For my own part," continued he, "I am always
extremely cool on these occasions." "So it appeared, by your trembling," said the young lady.
"Death and d--ion!" cried he, "your sex protects you, madam; if any man on earth durst tell
me so much, I'd send him to hell, d--n my heart! in an instant." So saying, he fixed his eyes
upon me, and asked if I had seen him tremble? I answered without hesitation, "Yes." "D--me,
sir!" said he, "d'ye doubt my courage?" I replied, "Very much." This declaration quite disconcerted
him. He looked blank, and pronounced with a faltering voice, "Oh! it's very well: d--n my blood!
I shall find a time." I signified my contempt of him, by thrusting my tongue in my cheek, which
humbled him so much, that he scarce swore another oath aloud during the whole journey.

The precise lady, having recruited her spirits by the help of some strong waters, began a soliloquy,
in which she wondered that any man, who pretended to maintain the character of a gentleman,
could, for the sake of a little paltry coin, throw persons of honour into such quandaries as
might endanger their lives; and professed her surprise that women were not ashamed to commend
such brutality. At the same time vowing that for the future she would never set foot in a stage
coach, if a private convenience could be had for love or money.

Nettled at her remarks, I took the same method of conveying my sentiments, and wondered in
my turn, that any woman of common sense should be so unreasonable as to expect that people,
who had neither acquaintance nor connection with her, would tamely allow themselves to be robbed
and maltreated, merely to indulge her capricious humour. I likewise confessed my astonishment
at her insolence and ingratitude in taxing a person with brutality, who deserved her approbation
and acknowledgment; and vowed that, if ever she should be assaulted again, I would leave her
to the mercy of the spoiler, that she might know the value of my protection.

This person of honour did not think fit to carry on the altercation any further, but seemed
to chew the cud of her resentment with the crestfallen captain, while I entered into discourse
with my charmer, who was the more pleased with my conversation, as she had conceived a very
indifferent opinion of my intellects from my former silence. I should have had cause to be
equally satisfied with the sprightliness of her genius, could she have curbed her imagination
with judgment; but she laboured under such a profusion of talk, that I dreaded her unruly tongue,
and felt by anticipation the horrors of an eternal clack! However, when I considered, on the
other hand, the joys attending the possession of twenty thousand pounds, I forgot her imperfections,
seized occasion by the forelock, and tried to insinuate myself into her affection. The careful
mother kept a strict watch over her and though she could not help behaving civilly to me, took
frequent opportunities of discouraging our communication, by reprimanding her for being so
free with strangers, and telling her she must learn to speak less and think more. Abridged
of the use of speech, we conversed with our eyes, and I found the young lady very eloquent
in this kind of discourse. In short, I had reason to believe that she was sick of the old gentlewoman's
tuition, and that I should find it no difficult matter to supersede her authority.

When we arrived at the place where we were to breakfast, I alighted, and helped my mistress
out of the coach, as well as her mother who called for a private room to which they withdrew
in order to eat by themselves. As they retired together, I perceived that Miss had got more
twists from nature than I had before observed for she was bent sideways into the figure of
an S, so that her progression very much resembled that of a crab. The prude also chose the
captain for her messmate, and ordered breakfast for two only, to be brought into another separate
room: while the lawyer and I, deserted by the rest of the company, were fain to put up with
each other. I was a good deal chagrined at the stately reserve of Mrs. Snapper, who, I thought,
did not use me with all the complaisance I deserved; and my companion declared that he had
been a traveller for twenty years, and never knew the stage coach rules so much infringed before.
As for the honourable gentlewoman I could not conceive the meaning of her attachment to the
lieutenant; and asked the lawyer if he knew for which of the soldier's virtues she admired
him? The counsellor facetiously replied, "I suppose the lady knows him to be an able conveyancer,
and wants him to make a settlement in tail." I could not help laughing at the archness of the
barrister, who entertained me during breakfast with a great deal of wit of the same kind, at
the expense of our fellow travellers; and among other things said, he was sorry to find the
young lady saddled with such incumbrances.

When we had made an end of our repast, and paid our reckoning, we went into the coach, took
our places, and bribed the driver with sixpence to revenge us on the rest of his fare, by hurrying
them away in the midst of their meal. This task he performed to our satisfaction, after he
had disturbed their enjoyment with his importunate clamour. The mother and daughter obeyed
the summons first, and, coming to the coach door, were obliged to desire the coachman's assistance
to get in, because the lawyer and I had agreed to show our resentment by our neglect. They
were no sooner seated, than the captain appeared, as much heated as if he had been pursued
a dozen miles by an enemy; and immediately after him came the lady, not without some marks
of disorder. Having helped her up, he entered himself, growling a few oaths against the coachman
for his impertinent interruption; and the lawyer comforted him by saying, that if he had suffered
a nisi prius through the obstinacy of the defendant, he might have an opportunity to join issue
at the next stage. This last expression gave offence to the grave gentlewoman, who told him,
if she was a man, she would make him repent of such obscenity, and thanked God, he had never
been in such company before. At this insinuation the captain thought himself under a necessity
of espousing the lady's cause; and accordingly threatened to cut off the lawyer's ears, if
he should give his tongue any such liberties for the future. The poor counsellor begged pardon,
and universal silence ensued.

CHAPTER LV

I resolve to ingratiate myself with the Mother, and am favoured by accident--the Precise Lady
finds her husband, and quit the Coach--the Captain is disappointed of his dinner--we arrive
at Bath--I accompany Miss Snapper to the Long-room, where she is attacked by beau Nash, and,
turns the Laugh against him--I make love to her, and receive a check--Squire her to an Assembly,
where I am blessed with a Sight of my dear Narcissa, which discomposes me so much, that Miss
Snapper, observing my disorder, is at pains to discover the Cause--is piqued at the Occasion,
and, in our way home, pays me a sarcastic Compliment--I am met by Miss Williams, who is the
maid and Confidante of Narcissa--she acquaints me with her Lady's regard for me while under
the disguise of a Servant, and describes the Transports of Narcissa on seeing me at the Assembly,
in the Character of a Gentleman--I am surprised with an Account of her Aunt's Marriage, and
make an Appointment to meet Miss Williams the next day

During this unsocial interval, my pride and interest maintained a severe conflict on the subject
of Miss Snapper, whom the one represented as unworthy of notice, and the other proposed as
the object of my whole attention: the advantages and disadvantages of such a match were opposed
to one another by my imagination; and, at length, my judgment gave it so much in favour of
the first, that I resolved to prosecute my scheme with all the address in my power. I thought
I perceived some concern in her countenance, occasioned by my silence, which she, no doubt,
imputed to my disgust at her mother's behaviour; and, as I believed the old woman could not
fail of ascribing my muteness to the same motive, I determined to continue that sullen conduct
towards her, and fall upon some other method of manifesting my esteem for the daughter, nor
was it difficult for me to make her acquainted with my sentiments by the expression of my looks,
which I modelled into the character of humanity and love; and which were answered by her with
all the sympathy and approbation I could desire. But when I began to consider, that, without
further opportunities of improving my success, all the progress I had hitherto made would not
much avail, and that such opportunities could not be enjoyed without the mother's permission,
I concluded it would be requisite to vanquish her coldness and suspicion by my assiduities
and respectful behaviour on the road; and she would, in all likelihood, invite me to visit
her at Bath, where I did not fear of being able to cultivate her acquaintance as much as would
be necessary to the accomplishment of my purpose. And indeed accident furnished me with an
opportunity of obliging her so much that she could not, with any appearance of good manners,
forbear to gratify my inclination.

When we arrived at our dining-place, we found all the eatables at the inn bespoke by a certain
nobleman, who had got the start of us and, in all likelihood, my mistress and her mother must
have dined with Duke Humphrey, had I not exerted myself in their behalf, and bribed the landlord
with a glass of wine to curtail his lordship's entertainment of a couple of fowls and some
bacon, which I sent with my compliments to the ladies. They accepted my treat with a great
many thanks, and desired I would favour them with my company at dinner, where I amused the
old gentlewoman so successfully, by maintaining a seemingly disinterested ease in the midst
of my civility, that she signified a desire of being better acquainted, and hoped I would be
so kind as to see her sometimes at Bath. While I enjoyed myself in this manner, the precise
lady had the good fortune to meet with her husband, who was no other than gentleman, or, in
other words, valet-de-chambre, to the very nobleman whose coach stood at the door. Proud of
the interest she had in the house, she affected to show her power by introducing the captain
to her spouse as a person who had treated her with great civility upon which he was invited
to a share of their dinner; while the poor lawyer, finding himself utterly abandoned, made
application to me, and was through my intercession admitted into our company. Having satisfied
our appetites, and made ourselves merry at the expense of the person of honour, the civil captain,
and complaisant husband, I did myself the pleasure of discharging the bill by stealth, for
which I received a great many apologies and acknowledgments from my guests, and we re-embarked
at the first warning. The officer was obliged, at last, to appease his hunger with a luncheon
of bread and cheese, and a pint bottle of brandy, which he dispatched in the coach, cursing
the inappetence of his lordship, who had ordered dinner to be put back a whole hour.

Nothing remarkable happened during the remaining part of our journey, which was finished next
day, when I waited on the ladies to the house of a relation, in which they intended to lodge,
and, passing that night at the inn, took lodgings in the morning for myself.

The forenoon was spent in visiting everything that was worth seeing in the place, in company
with a gentleman to whom Banter had given me a letter of introduction; and in the afternoon
I waited on the ladies, and found Miss a good deal indisposed with the fatigue of their journey.
As they foresaw they should have occasion for a male acquaintance to squire them at all public
places, I was received with great cordiality, and had the mother's permission to conduct them
next day to the Long Room, which we no sooner entered, than the eyes of everybody present were
turned upon us, and, when we had suffered the martyrdom of their looks for some time, a whisper
circulated at our expense, which was accompanied with many contemptuous smiles and tittering
observations, to my utter shame and confusion. I did not so much conduct as follow my charge
to a place where she seated her mother and herself with astonishing composure notwithstanding
the unmannerly behaviour of the whole company, which seemed to be assumed merely to put her
out of countenance. The celebrated Mr. Nash, who commonly attends in this place, as master
of the ceremonies, perceiving the disposition of the assembly, took upon himself the task of
gratifying their ill-nature further, by exposing my mistress to the edge of his wit. With this
view he approached us, with many bows and grimaces, and, after having welcomed Miss Snapper
to the place, asked her in the hearing of all present, if she could inform him of the name
of Tobit's dog. Miss was so much incensed at his insolence, that I should certainly have kicked
him where he stood without ceremony, had not the young lady prevented the effects of my indignation,
by replying with the utmost vivacity, "His name was Nash, and an impudent dog he was." This
repartee so unexpected and just, raised such a universal laugh at the aggressor, that all his
assurance was insufficient to support him under their derision; so that, after he had endeavoured
to compose himself by taking snuff and forcing a smile, he was obliged to sneak off in a ludicrous
attitude, while my Dulcinea was applauded to the skies for the brilliancy of her wit, and her
acquaintance immediately courted by the best people of both sexes in the room.

This event, with which I was indefinitely pleased at first, did not fail of alarming me, upon
further reflection, when I considered, that the more she was caressed by persons of distinction,
the more her pride would be inflamed, and consequently, the obstacles to my success multiplied
and enlarged. Nor were my presaging fears untrue. That very night I perceived her a little
intoxicated with the incense she had received, and, though, she still behaved with a particular
civility to me, I foresaw, that, as soon as her fortune should be known, she would be surrounded
with a swarm of admirers, some of whom might possibly, by excelling me on point of wealth,
or in the arts of flattery and scandal, supplant me in her esteem, and find means to make the
mother of his party. I resolved therefore to lose no time, and, being invited to spend the
evening with them, found an opportunity, in spite of the old gentlewoman's vigilance, to explain
the meaning of my glances in the coach, by paying homage to her wit, and professing myself
enamoured of her person. She blushed at my declaration and in a favourable manner disapproved
of the liberty I had taken, putting me in mind of our being strangers to each other, and desiring
I would not be the means of interrupting our acquaintance, by any such unseasonable strokes
of gallantry for the future. My ardour was effectually checked by this reprimand, which was,
however, delivered in a gentle manner, that I had no cause to be disobliged; and the arrival
of her mother relieved me from a dilemma in which I should not have known how to demean myself
a minute longer. Neither could I resume the easiness of carriage with which I came in; my mistress
acted on the reserve, and the conversation beginning to flag, the old lady introduced her kinswoman
of the house, and proposed a hand at whist.

While we amused ourselves at this diversion, I understood from the gentlewoman, that there
was to be an assembly next night at which I begged to have the honour of dancing with Miss.
She thanked me for the favour I intended her, assured me she never did dance, but signified
a desire of seeing the company, when I offered my service, which was accepted, not a little
proud of being exempted from appearing with her in a situation, that, notwithstanding my profession
to the contrary, was not at all agreeable to my inclination.

Having supped, and continued the game, till such time as the successive yawns of the mother
warned me to be gone, I took my leave, and went home, where I made Strap very happy with an
account of my progress. Next day I put on my gayest apparel, and went to drink tea at Mrs.
Snapper's, according to appointment, when I found, to my inexpressible satisfaction, that she
was laid up with the toothache, and that Miss was to be intrusted to my care. Accordingly,
we set out for the ball-room pretty early in the evening, and took possession of a commodious
place, where we had not sat longer than a quarter of an hour, when a gentleman, dressed in
a green frock, came in, leading a young lady, whom I immediately discovered to be the adorable
Narcissa! Good heaven! what were the thrillings of my soul at that instant! my reflection was
overwhelmed with a torrent of agitation! my heart throbbed with surprising violence! a sudden
mist overspread my eyes, my ears were invaded with a dreadful sound! I panted for want of breath,
and, in short, was for some moments entranced! This first tumult subsiding, a crowd of flattering
ideas rushed upon my imagination. Everything, that was soft, sensible, and engaging, in the
character of that dear creature recurred to my remembrance, and every favourable circumstance
of my own qualifications appeared in all the aggravation of self-conceit, to heighten my expectation!
Neither was this transport of long duration. The dread of her being already disposed of intervened,
and overcast my enchanting reverie! My presaging apprehension represented her encircled in
the arms of some happy rival, and in consequence for ever lost to me. I was stung with this
suggestion, and, believing the person who conducted her to be the husband of this amiable young
lady, already devoted him to my fury, and stood up to mark him for my vengeance, when I recollected,
to my unspeakable joy, her brother the fox-hunter, in the person of her gallant.

