The Wednesday dawned: Sir Thomas was to be off early, poor man, all agog for right honourable
acres; and Maria could no longer restrain the expression of her glad and grateful feelings.
Up she got by six, threw herself in her kind dear father's way; and though, to spare his feelings,
she said not a word about the marriage, prayed him on her knees for a blessing. The startled
parent, believing all this frantic show of feeling was sufficiently to be accounted for by
his own long and no doubt dangerous journey, blessed her as devoutly as ever he could; and
when the carriage drove away, left her in his study, overcome with joy, affection, and admiration
of his fine heart, exquisite sensibilities, and generous feelings. Then, as a crowning-stone
to all the bliss, if any lingering doubt existed in the mind of Clements, who had more than
once expressed dislike at Sir Thomas's silent and unsatisfying sympathy--the letter--the letter,
whereof kind brother John, secretly initiated, had some days forewarned them of its probability--that
letter, which explained at once all a father's kind anxieties, and made up for all his cold
reserve, was found on Sir Thomas's own table! How amiable, how beautifully sensitive, how liberal
too! Lady Dillaway plumed herself in a whispering transport upon her just appreciation of the
father's better feelings; a kinder heart manifestly never existed than her husband's, though
he did take strange methods of proving it: the bridesmaids, two daughters of a friend and neighbour,
privy to the coming mystery three days, approved highly of so unobtrusive an old gentleman:
Maria was all pantings, blushings, weepings, and rejoicings; Henry Clements, handsome, pale,
and agitated; perhaps, misgiving too, and a little displeased at the father's absence; however,
Mr. John Dillaway gave away the bride with a most paternal air; and, just as Sir Thomas was
changing horses at Huntingdon, our innocent lovers were indissolubly married.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE ROGUE'S TRIUMPH.

Never was there such a happy couple; nor a more auspicious day. Away they went, in deep delight,
too joyful to be merry, in a holy transport of affection, and its dearest hope fulfilled. They
seemed to be in love with all the world, for every thing around them wore a lustre of deliciousness:
and when the smoking posters left them at Salt hill, and that well-matched husband and wife
sat down to their first boiled fowl, it would probably be a bathos to allude to angelic bliss;
but they nevertheless were, and knew they were, the happiest of mortals. If any thing could
add to Henry's self-complacency at that moment, it was the recollection of his own truly disinterested
conduct; for only yesterday he had transferred all his little property to that kind and brotherly
fellow John Dillaway, in trust for Maria Clements, should any possible reverse of fortune affect
her father's or his own prosperity. Yes; and John had been so wise as to make the two hundred
a-year already a third more, by investing (as he said) what had been a few thousands of three
per cents. in some capital "independent" bank shares of Australasia--safe as a mountain, and
productive as a valley.

All this appeared very prosperous and pleasant: but we of the initiated into the secrets of
character, may reasonably apprehend that Henry's little all would have been safer any where
than in Dillaway's possession: and "possession," I am sorry to declare, is a word used advisedly;
for Mr. John required a largish floating capital to enable him to go to the desperate lengths
he did at hazard and rouge-et-noir; and I am afraid that if Mr. or Mrs. Clements were to receive
any of those so-called Austral dividends, they would only have been taking three hundred pounds
a-year out of their principal moneys in John's immaculate keeping.

Leaving then those wedded lovers to their honey-moon of joy, and shrewd Jack gloating not merely
over the full success of his nefarious plan, but also over this unexpected acquisition of poor
Clement's few thousands, let us return to Sir Thomas--or, to be quite accurate, let us return
with him.

In high dudgeon, full of fire and fury, back rushed the knight, sore under the sense of having
been made an April-fool of in July; for no one in the place whereto he went, had ever heard
of a widow'd Countess of Lancing; and her ladyship's acres, if any where at all, were undoubtedly
not in the North Riding. But clever son John, meeting his indignant father on the threshold,
soon made all that right by a word.

"Well, if ever! why, stupid, I said Diddlington, not Darlington."

Into the accuracy of this distinction it is needless to inquire: and then the ingenuous youth
went on to observe--

"But all's right as it is now; you may as well not have seen the property, and better, too,
as things have turned out roughly, governor: the match is off, and you may well congratulate
me. Such an escape--I just discovered it, and was barely in time: you hadn't been gone two
hours when I found it all out, through a clever devil of a lawyer, who was hired by my father's
son to look into incumbrances, and keep a sharp look-out for a mutual settlement; that old
harridan of a ladyship is over head and ears in debt; and, it seems, I was to have paid all
straight, or i. e. you, governor, ey? As to the Yorkshire acres, the old woman had but a life
interest in the mere bit that wasn't deeply mortgaged--and not a very long life either, seeing
she is seventy. So, bless your clever boy again, old governor, he's free."

The knight had nothing to object: Jack's ready lie had plenty of reasons in it: and so he blessed
his clever boy again.

"But I say, governor, I rather think that you've astonished us all: what on earth made you
turn so soft of a sudden, and write that letter?"

"What letter? ey? what?"--Sir Thomas might well inquire.

"That's a good joke, governor--you keep it up to the last, I see; what a close old file it
is! What letter? why, the letter you wrote to Maria and her lord, telling them to marry."

"Marry? ey? what, Maria? what--what is it all?" The poor old man was thoroughly bewildered.

"Well done, governor--bravo! you can carry it off as cleverly as if you were an actor; do you
mean to say now you didn't leave a letter behind you here upon your table, bidding Maria marry
in your absence to spare your paternal feelings (kind old boy, it is, too!) and enclosing them
one hundred pounds for the honey-moon?"

The mystified father made some inarticulate expression of ignorant amazement, and our stock-jobber
went on:

"So of course they're married and off--Mr. and Mrs. Cle----"

A whirlwind of disastrous imprecations cut all short; and then in a voice choked with passion
he gasped out--

"But--but are they married--are they married? how do you know it? can't we catch 'em first,
ey? what!"

"How do I know it? that's a good un now, father, when I had it under your hand to give the
girl away myself instead of you. Do you mean to say you didn't write that letter?"

"Boy, I tell you, I've written nothing--I know nothing; you speak in riddles."

"Well then, governor, if I do, I'll to guess 'em: I begin to see how it was all brought about--but
they did it cleverly too, and were quite too many for me. Only listen: that fellow Clements,
ay, and Miss Maria too (artful minx, I know her), must have forged a letter as if from you
to get poor fools, me and my mother, to see 'em spliced, while you were tooling to Yorkshire."

"Impossible--ey? what? I'll--I'll--I'll--"

"Now, governor, don't stand there doing nothing but denying all I say; only you go yourself,
and ask my mother if she didn't see the letter--if they didn't marry upon it, and if that precious
sister of mine doesn't richly deserve every thing she'll some day get from her affectionate,
her excellent, her ill-used father?"

Iago's self, or his master, smooth-tongued Belial, could not have managed matters better.

The incredulous knight, scarcely able to discover how far it might not still be all a joke,
especially after his Yorkshire expedition, rushed up to Lady Dillaway; on her usual sofa, quietly
knitting, and thinking of her Maria's second day of happiness.

"So, ma'am--ey? what? is it true? are they married? is it true? married--ey? what?"

"Certainly, Thomas, they were only too glad, and I will add, so was I, to get your kind--"

"Mine? I give leave? ey? what? Madam, we're cheated, fooled--I never wrote any letter."

"Most astonishing; I saw it myself, Thomas, your own hand; and our dear John too."

"Ay, ay--he sees through it all, and so do I now--ey? what? that precious pair of rogues forged
it! Now, ma'am, what don't they deserve, I should like to know?"

It was quite a blow, and a very hard one, to the poor tranquil mother. Could her dear Maria
really have been so base, and that noble-looking Henry too? how dreadfully deceived in them,
if this proved true! And how could she think it false? A letter contrived to expedite their
marriage in the father's casual absence, which no one could have thought of writing but Sir
Thomas himself, or the impatient lovers. So poor Lady Dillaway could only fall a-crying very
miserably; whereupon her husband more than half suspected her of being an accomplice in the
despicable plot.

"Now then, ma'am, I'm determined: as they are married, the thing's at an end; we can't untie
that knot--but, once tied, I've done with the girl; they may starve, for any help they'll get
of me: and as for you, mum, give 'em money at your peril; stay, to make sure of it, Lady Dillaway,
I shall stint you to whatever you choose to ask me for out of my own pocket; never draw another
cheque on Jones's, do you hear? ey? what? for your cheques shall not be honoured, ma'am. And
now, from this hour, you and I have only one child, John."

"Oh, Thomas--Thomas! be merciful to poor Maria! indeed, she was deceived; she believed it all--poor
Maria!"

"Ma'am, never mention that woman again--ey? what? deceived? Yes, she deceived you and me, and
John, and all. Wicked wretch! and all to marry a beggar! Well, ma'am, there's one comfort left;
the fellow married her for money, and he's caught in his own trap; never a penny of mine shall
either of them see. Henceforth, Lady Dillaway, we have no daughter; dear John is the only child
left us for old age."

In spite of himself, of wrath, and disappointment, the father spoke in a moved and broken manner;
and his weeping wife attempted to explain, console, and soothe him; but all in vain--he was
inexorable and inveterate against those mean deceivers. To say truth, the poor mother was staggered
too, especially when her managing son set all the matter in what he stated to be the right
light; for he had, the whole business through, whispered so separately to each, and had seemed
to say so little openly (making his mother believe that his sister told him of the coming letter,
and a choice variety of other embellishments), that he was now looked upon as the very martyr
to roguish plotting, in having been induced to give away his sister. Excellent, mistaken John!

And forthwith John became installed sole heir, proving the most dutiful of sons: how glibly
would he tell them any sort of welcome news, original or selected; how many anecdotes could
he invent to prove his own merits and certain other folks' deficiencies; how amiably would
he fetch and carry slippers and smelling-bottles, and write notes, and read newspapers, and
make himself every thing by turns (he devoutly hoped it would be nothing long) to his poor
dear parents, as became an only child! It was quite affecting--and both father and mother,
softened in spite of themselves at the loss of that Maria, often would talk over the new-found
virtues of their most exemplary son. His character came out now with five-fold lustre when
contrasted with his former usual ruggedness: no widow ever had a one sick child more tender,
more considerate, more dutiful, than rude Jack Dillaway.

He gained his end; saw the new will signed; earwigged the lawyer; and kept a copy of it.

CHAPTER IX.

FALSE-WITNESS KILLS A MOTHER, AND WOULD WILLINGLY STARVE A SISTER.

Day by day, letters, doubtless full of happiness and Heart, were left by the promiscuous and
undiscerning postman at the house in Finsbury square, from our excellent calumniated couple;
but, seeing that there were always two sieves waiting ready to sift it before it came to Lady
Dillaway's turn--to wit, John in the hall, and Sir Thomas in his study, it came to pass that
every letter with those malefactors' hand and seal on it got burnt instanter, and unopened.

How many troubles might mankind be spared if they would only stop to hear each other's explanations!
How many ailments, both of body and soul, if explanations only came more frequently and freely!
Melancholy from that dreadful doubt, and all these cold delays, viewing her daughter as a criminal,
the husband as a swindler, and all this long course of silence as very, very heartless and
seemingly conclusive of their guilt, the poor mother sickened fast upon her couch: she had
for years always been an invalid, wan and wo-begone, living upon ether, gum, and chicken-broth;
but her white skin now grew whiter, her faint voice fainter, the energies of life in her debilitated
frame weaker than ever; it was no mere hypochondria, or other fanciful malady: her calm heart
seemed to be dying down within her, as a plant that has earth-grubs gnawing at its root--she
grew very ill. Days, weeks of silence--her heart was sick with hope deferred. How could Maria,
with all her seeming warmth, treat her with such utter negligence? But now the honey-moon was
coming to an end: they must call and see her some day again, surely; how strangely unkind not
to answer those motherly and anxious letters, sent to their first known stage, Salt hill, and
thereafter to be forwarded.

O, cold continued crime! Bad man, bad man, thy mother's own hand-writing shall plead against
thee at the last dread day. For those coveted letters of affection, often sent on both those
loving parts, had been regularly and ruthlessly intercepted, opened, mocked, and burnt! How
could the man have stood case-proof against those letters--his mother's anxious outbursts of
affection towards a lost, an innocent, a calumniated sister? For selfishness had dried up in
that hard and wily man all the milk of human kindness.

And our loving pair, upon their travels, were as much hurt and surprised at this long silence
as poor Lady Dillaway herself: it was most mysterious, inexplicable. The only letter they had
received ever since they had left home was one--only one, from John, which had frightened them
exceedingly. Some practical joker (the bridesmaid's brother was suspected), by way of giving
Maria a present on her approaching wedding, as it would seem, had cleverly imitated her father's
hand-writing, and--that letter was a forgery! to every body's great amazement. Nobody could,
according to his own account, be kinder than John, who had done more than mortal things to
appease his father; but the old man remained implacable. It was a meanly-contrived clandestine
match, he said; and he never intended to set eyes on them again! As for John, he in that letter
had strongly counselled them to keep away, and trust to him for bringing his father round.
In the midst of their terrible dilemma, kind brother John seemed as an angel sent by Heaven
to assist them.

Dear children of affection and calamity! how innocently did they walk into the snare; and how
closely doth the wicked man draw his toils around them. Who can accuse them of any wrong (the
hopefulness of love considered) in point either of honour or duty? And shall they not be righted
at the last? It may be so--it shall be so: but Holy Providence hath purposes of good in plunging
those twin wedded hearts deep beneath the billows of earthly destitution. The wicked must prosper
for a while, in this as in a million other cases, and the good for their season struggle with
adversity; that the one may be destroyed for ever, and the others may add to this world's wealth
the incalculable riches of another.

They had spent the few first weeks of marriage among the pleasant lakes and hills of Westmoreland
and Cumberland, wandering together, in delightful interchange of thought, from glen to glen,
from tairn to tairn, all about Ambleside, Helvellyn, and Lodore, Ullswater, Saddleback, and
Schiddaw. Maria's ever-flickering smile seemed to throw a sun-beam over the darkest moor, even
in those darkest hours of doubt, heart-sickening anxiety, and grief at the neglect which they
experienced; while Henry's well-informed good sense not only availed to cheer the sad Maria,
but made every rock a point of interest, and showed every little flower a miracle of wisdom.
There were hundreds of extemporaneous "lover's seats," where they had "rested, to be thankful"
for the past, joyful for the present, and hopeful for the future; and every ramble that they
took might deservedly take the name, style, and title of a "lover's walk!" Happy times--happy
times! but still there might be happier; yes, and happiest, too, they seemed to whisper, if
ever they should have a merry little nursery of prattling boys and girls! But I am not so entirely
in the confidence of those young folks as to be certain about what they seemed to whisper:
in that pretty prattling sentence were they not getting a little beyond the honey-moon? Yes--yes,
young Hymen is too full of new-found pleasure to heed those holier joys of calm old marriage;
for wedded love is as a coil of line, lengthening with the lapse of years, fitted and intended,
day after day, to be continually sounding a lower and a lower deep in the ocean of happiness.

Returned to town, it was the immediate care of our fond, confused, and unfortunate young couple
to call at the old house in Finsbury square; where, to their great dismay and misery, they
encountered a formal standing order for their non-admission. The domestics were new, had been
strictly warned against the name of Clements, and, in effect, were creatures of the worthy
John. It was a deplorable business; they did not know what to think, nor how to act. Letters
left at the door, couched in whatever terms of humility, kindliness, and just excuse, were
equally unavailing; for the Cerberus there was too well sopped by pleasant brother John ever
to deliver them to any one but him. It was entirely hopeless--extraordinary--a most wretched
state of things. What were they to do? The only practicable mode of getting at Sir Thomas,
and, therefore, at some explanation of these mysteries, was obviously to watch for him, and
meet him in the street. As for Lady Dillaway, she was very ill, and kept her chamber, which
was as resolutely guarded from incursion or excursion as Danae's herself--yea, more so, for
gold was added to her guards: Sir Thomas, going to and from his counting-house, appeared to
be the only weak point in the enemy's fortifications.

Poor old man! he was, or thought he was, harder, colder, more inveterate than ever: and his
duteous son John rarely let him venture out alone, for fear of some such meeting, casual or
intended. Accordingly, one day when the Clements and the Dillaways mutually spied each other
afar off, and a junction seemed inevitable, John's promptitude bade his father (generously
as it looked, for paternal peace of mind's sake) return a few paces, get into a cab, and so
slip home, the while he valiantly stepped forward to meet the enemy.

"Mr. Clements! my father (I grieve to say) will hear no reason, nor any excuse whatever; he
totally refuses to see you or Mrs. Clements."

"O, dearest John! what have I done--what has Henry done, that papa, and you, and dear mamma,
should all be so unkind to us?"

"You have married, Mrs. Clements, contrary to your father's wish and knowledge: and he has
cast you off--I must say--deservedly."

"Brother, brother! you know I was deceived, and Henry too. This is cruel, most cruel: let me
see my beloved father but one moment!"

"His commands are to the contrary, madam; and I at least obey them. Henceforth you are a stranger
to us all."

The poor broken-hearted girl fell into her husband's arms, stone-white: but her hard brother,
making no account whatever of all that show of feeling, only took the trouble quietly to address
Henry Clements. "Misfortunes never come single, they say; it is no fault of mine if the proverb
hits Mr. Henry Clements. I am sorry to have to tell you, sir, that the Austral Independent
bank has stopped payment, and is not expected to refund to its depositors or shareholders one
penny in the pound."

"Impossible, Mr. Dillaway! You answered for its stability yourself: and the proposition came
originally from you. I hope surely, surely, you may have been misinformed of these bad news."

"It is true, sir--too true for you: the wisest man on 'change is often out of reckoning. I
have nothing now of yours in my hands, sir: you are aware that no writings passed between us."

"Great Heaven! be just and merciful! Are we, then, to be utterly ruined?"

"Really, sir, you know your own affairs better than I can.--Your servant, Mr. Clements."

O, hard and wicked heart!--what will not such a miscreant do for money? Nothing, I am clear,
but the cowardly fear of discovery prevents John Dillaway from becoming a positive parricide
by very arsenic or razor, so as to grasp his cheated father's will and wealth. And this assertion
will appear not in the least uncharitable, when the reader is in this place reminded that Henry
Clements's own little property had never been Australized at all, but was still safe and snug
in the coffers of crafty John. Jermyn street--or the sharpers congregated there--had drained
him very considerably; all his own ill-got gains had been gradually raked away by the croupier
at the gaming-table; and unsuspecting Henry's little trust-fund was to be the next bank on
which the brother played.

Poor Henry and Maria! What will they do? where will they go? how will they live? Hard questions
all, not to be answered in a hurry. We shall see. There was one comfort, though, amidst all
their misery;--they did not find the adage a true one, which alludes to poverty coming in at
the door, and love flying out of the window; for they never loved each other more deeply--more
devotedly--than when daily bread was growing a scarcity, and daily life almost a burden. But
we are anticipating.

And how fared the parents all this while? was the erring daughter entirely forgotten? No, no.
Son John, indeed, took good care to hinder any amicable feelings of relapse to intrude upon
his father's resolution. But the old man was not easy, nevertheless; often thought of poor
Maria; and could not clearly make out who had forged the letter. Had it not been for that wicked
brother John, a meeting--an explanation--a reconciliation--would undoubtedly have taken place:
but he was shrewd enough to keep them asunder, and did not take much to heart his father's
altered spirits and breaking state of health: his will and wealth were seemingly all the nearer.

And what of that poor stricken mother? Wasted to a shadow, feverish and weak, she lay for weeks,
counting the dreary hours, till she heard of dear, though unnatural, Maria. Oh! the heartless
caitiff, John! will he thus watch his mother die by inches, when one true word from his lips
could restore her to tranquillity and health? Yes, he would--he did--the wretch! She gradually
pined--waned--wasted; the candle of her life burnt down into the hollow socket--glimmering
awhile--flared and reeled, and then--one night, quietly and suddenly--went out! She entered
on the world of spirits, where all secrets show revealed; and there she read, almost before
she died--whilst yet the black curtain of eternity was gradually rising to receive her--the
innocence of good Maria, and the deep-stained villany of John. Her last words--uttered supernaturally
from her quiescence, with the fervour of a visionary whose ken is more than mortal--were "Look,
look, Thomas!--beware of John. O poor, poor innocent outcast!--O rich, rich heart of love--Maria!
my Mari--a--!"

CHAPTER X.

HOW TO HELP ONE'S SELF.

Where then did they live, and how--that noble and calumniated couple? They had done no wrong,
nor even, as it seems to us, the semblance of wrong, unless it be by having acquiesced in the
foolishness of secresy, and thus aided the contrivance of false witness; for aught else, their
only social error had been lack of business caution among business men. Feeling generously
themselves, they gave others credit for the like good feeling; acting upon honourable impulse,
they believed that other men would act so too. Heart was the hindrance in their way;--too much
sensitiveness towards all about them; too swift a surrender of the judgment to the affections:
too imprudent a reliance upon other men of the world; though, when they trusted to a father's
love, and a brother's honesty, prudence herself might have almost been dispensed with. Machinations
of the wicked and the shrewd hemmed them in to their un-doing: and really, they, children more
or less of affluent homes, born and bred in plenty, who had moved all their lives long in circles
of comparative wealth and wastefulness, now seemed likely to come to the galling want of necessary
sustenance. Was it not to teach them deeper feeling for the poor, if ever God again should
give them riches? Was it not, by poverty, to try those hearts which had passed so blamelessly
through all the ordeals and temptations of wealth, in order that they worthily might wear the
double crown given only to such as remain unhardened by prosperity, unembittered by adversity?
Was it not to discipline our warm Maria's love, and to chasten her Henry's very gentlemanly
pride into the due Christian proportions--self-respect with self-humiliation? Was it not, chiefest
and best, to school their hearts for heaven, and, by feeding them on miseries and wrongs a
little while, to fix their affections on things above rather than on things of this world?
Yes: Providence has many ends in view, and they all tend consistently to one great focus--the
ultimate advantage of the good by means of the confusion of the wicked.

Meanwhile came trouble on apace. Henry Clements justly felt aggrieved, insulted; and the sentiment
of pride, improper only from excess, determined him to make no more advances: all that man
could do, that is, which a gentleman ought to do, he had done; but letters and visits proved
equally unavailing. He had come to the resolution that he would make no more efforts himself,
nor scarcely let Maria make any. As for her, poor soul! she was now in grievous tribulation,
with sad, sufficient reason for it too; seeing that, in addition to her father's anger, still
protracted--in addition to that vile forgery imputed to her craft, and whereof she had been
made the guilty victim--in addition to their own soon pressing money-wants, and that heartless
fraud of John's against her husband's little all (though she counted of it only as a luckless
speculation)--she had just become acquainted, through the public prints, of her dear good mother's
death, even before she had heard of any illness. What bitter pangs were there for her, poor
child! That she should have lost that mother just then, without forgiveness, without blessing--whilst
all was unexplained, and their whole conduct of affections without guile, wore the hideous
mask of base, undutiful contrivance! Cheer up, Maria; cheer up! only in this bad world can
innocence be sullied with a doubt: cheer up! the spirit of that mother whom you loved on earth
knows it well already; learned it while yet she was leaving the body of her death: cheer up!
she is still near you both--dear children of affliction and affection! and God has commissioned
her for good to be your ministering angel.

With reference to means of living, they appeared limited at once to a little ready money, and
a few personal chattels and trinkets; without so much as one pound of capital to back the young
house-keepers, or a shilling's-worth of interest or dividend or earnings coming in for weekly
bills. Clements had been utterly confounded in all his economical arrangements by that sudden
bitter breach of trust; and, albeit (as we have hinted), his aim in marriage was not money;
still, without much of worldly calculation, he might prudently have looked for some provision
on Maria's part at least equal to his own: in fact, the fond young couple had reasonably set
their hearts upon that golden mean--four hundred a-year to begin with. Now, however, by two
fell swoops--brother John's dishonesty and Sir Thomas's resolve of disinheritance--all this
rational and moderate expectation had been dashed to atoms; and the cottage of contented competence
appeared but as a castle in the clouds--a mere airy matter of undiluted moonshine. Thus, when
that happiest of honeymoons had dwindled down the hundred-pound bank-note (shrewd John's well-expended
bait) to the fractional part of a ten, and our newly-married pair came to put together their
united resources, wherewithal to travel through the world, they could muster but very little:--considering,
too, the future, and the promise of an early increase to provide for, forty-seven pounds was
not quite a fortune; and a few articles of jewellery did not much increase it.

We need not imagine that Henry calmly acquiesced without a struggle in the roguish fraud which
had impoverished him; but, notwithstanding all his best endeavours, he found, to his dismay,
that the case was irremediable: the transfer-books, indeed, were evidence; and equity would
give credit for the trust: but that the "Independent bank" had failed was a simple fact; and
so long as John stood ready to swear he had invested in it, there was an end to the business.
Be sure, shrewd Jack was not likely to leave any thing dubious or unsatisfactory in the affair.
Austral papers were easily got at now, cheap as whitey-brown; and for any help the law could
give him, poor Henry Clements might as well engage the wind-raising services of a Lapland witch.

He must put his shoulder to the wheel without delay; manifestly, his profession of the law,
however unlucrative till now, must be the mighty lever that should raise him quickly to the
summit of opulence and fame: and he vigorously set to work, as the briefless are forced to
do, inditing a new law-book, which should lift him high in honour with those magnates on the
bench; being, as he was, a court-counsel, not a chamber one, an eloquent pleader too (if the
world would only give him a hearing), he unluckily took for his thesis the questionable 'Doctrine
of Defence;' combating magnanimously on the loftiest moral grounds all manner of received opinions,
time-honoured fictions, legitimated quibbles, and other things which (as he was pleased to
put it) "render the majesty of the law ridiculous to the ears of common sense, and iniquitous
in the sight of Christian judgment." Rash youth! forensic Quixote! better had you plodded on,
without this extra industry and skill, in the hopeless idleness and solitude of your Temple
garret--better had you burnt your wig and gown outright, with all the airy briefs to come that
fluttered round them, than have owned yourself the author of that heretical piece of moral
mawkishness--'The Doctrine of Defence, by Henry Clements.'

He had with difficulty found a publisher--a chilling incident enough in itself, considering
an author's feelings for his book-child; and when found, the scarcely satisfactory arrangement
was insisted on, of mutual participation in profit and loss: in other parlance, the bookseller
pocketing the first, and the author unpocketing the second. Thus it came to pass, that after
three months' toil and enormous collation of cases--after extravagant indulgence of the most
ardent hopes--glory, good, and gold, consequent instantaneously on this happy publication--after
reasonably expecting that judges would quote it in their ermine, and sergeants consult it in
their silk--that London would be startled by the event from the humdrum of its ordinary routine--and
the wondering world applaud the name of Henry Clements--O, heart-sickening reality! what was
the result of his exertions?

"So, that puppy Clements has taken upon himself to put us all to school about whom we may defend,
and how, I see---- Hang the fellow's impudence!" grunted a fat Old Bailey counsel to his peers,
well aware that the luckless author sat nervously within ear-shot.

"I know whose junior that modest swain shall never be;" simpered Sergeant Tiffin.

"The fellow's done for himself," was the simultaneous verdict of a well-wigged band of brothers.
And what else they might have added in their charity poor Clements never knew, for he crept
away to his garret, stricken with disappointment. There he must encounter other trials of the
heart: two or three reviews and newspapers lay upon his table, just sent in by the bookseller,
as per order; for they contained, in spirit-stirring print, notices of 'Clements on Defence.'
Unluckily for his present peace of mind, poor fellow, the periodicals in question were none
of the humaner sort; no kindly encouraging 'Literary Register,' no soft-spoken 'Courtier,'
no patient 'Investigator,' no generously-indulgent 'Critical Gazette:' these more amiable journals
would be slower in the field--some six weeks hence, perhaps, creeping on with philanthropic
sloth: but fiercer prints, which dart hebdomadal wrath at every trembling seeker of their parsimonious
praise, had whipt up their malice to deliver the first swift blow against our hapless neophyte
in print. Thus, when, with nervous preboding, Henry took up the 'Watchman,' in eager hope for
favour to his poor dear book, he turned quite sick at heart to find the lying verdict run as
follows, though the small type in which it spake was a comfort too:

"A careless compilation of insignificant cases, clumsily thrown together, and calculated to
set its author high indeed upon the rolls of fame; proving to the world that a Mr. Henry Clements
can reason very feebly; that his premises are habitually false; and that presumptuous preaching
is the natural accompaniment of extreme ignorance."

