Accordingly in early January of 1797 he might have been found there. He alludes in his correspondence
to the presence in the city of C. Volney, a French philosopher and historian, who had been
imprisoned but regained liberty on the overthrow of Robespierre when he became professor of
history in the Ecole Normal. Volney was not particularly pleased with Priestley's discourses,
and took occasion some weeks later to issue

    VOLNEY'S ANSWER TO PRIESTLEY

which was advertised by the Aurora as on sale by the principal booksellers, price 6 cents.

He was exceedingly rejoiced at the flourishing state of the Unitarian Society and the manner
in which its services were conducted.

On the occasion of his first discourse the English Ambassador, Mr. Lister, was in the audience
and Priestley dined with him the day following.

Friends had prevailed upon Priestley to preach a charity sermon on his next Sunday, in one
of the Episcopal churches, but in the end it was "delivered at the University Hall."

His mind was much occupied with plans for controverting infidelity,

      the progress of which here is independent of all reasoning,--

so he published the third edition of his "Observations on the Increase of Infidelity" and an
"Outline of the Evidences of Revealed Religion." In the first of them he issued a challenge
to Volney who was

      much looked up to by unbelievers here.

Volney's only reply was that he would not read the pamphlet. It was in these days that Priestley
saw a great deal of Thomas Jefferson; indeed, the latter attended several of his sermons. The
intercourse of these friends was extremely valuable to both. Jefferson welcomed everything
which Priestley did in science and consulted him much on problems of education.

At the election in the American Philosophical Society in the closing days of 1796 there was
openly discussed

      whether to choose me (Priestley) or Mr. Jefferson, President of
      the Society,--

which prompted the Doctor

      to give his informant good reasons why they should not choose
      me.

Naturally he listened to the political talk. He worried over the apparent dislike observed
generally to France. He remarked

    The rich not only wish for alliance offensive and defensive with
      England ... but would have little objection to the former
      dependence upon it,

and

    The disposition of the lower orders of the people ... for the
      French ... is not extinguished.

He was much annoyed by Peter Porcupine. The latter was publishing a daily paper (1799) and
in it frequently brought forward Priestley's name in the most opprobrious manner, although
Priestley in his own words--

      had nothing to do with the politics of the country.

The Doctor advised friend Lindsey that

    He (Porcupine) every day, advertizes his pamphlet against me, and
      after my name adds, "commonly known by the name of the fire-brand
      philosopher."

However, he flattered himself that he would soon be back in Northumberland, where he would
be usefully engaged, as

    I have cut myself out work for a year at least ... besides
      attending to my experiments. Thoughtful men
were doing him honor in many sections of the country, as is evident from
the following clipping from a Portland (Me.) paper for March 27, 1797:--

    On Friday the twenty-fourth a number of gentlemen, entertaining a
      high sense of the character, abilities and services of the
      Reverend Doctor JOSEPH PRIESTLEY, as a friend and promoter of true
      science dined together at the Columbian Tavern, in commemoration
      of his birth. The following toasts were given.

    1. That Illustrious Christian and Philosopher, Joseph Priestley:
       May the world be as grateful to him for his services as his
       services are beneficial to the world.

    2. May the names of Locke, Newton, Montesquieu, Hartley and
       Franklin be had in everlasting remembrance.

    3. The great gift of God to man, Reason! May it influence the
       world in policy, in laws, and in religion.

    4. TRUTH: May the splendour of her charms dissipate the gloom of
       superstition, and expel hypocricy from the heart of man.

    5. May our laws be supported by religion: but may religion never be
       supported by law.

    6. White-robed Charity: May she accompany us in all our steps and
       cover us with a mantle of love.

    7. Christians of all denominations: May they "love one another."

    As it was a "feast of reason" the purest philanthrophy dignified
      the conversation; and moderation and temperance bounded every
      effusion of the heart.

It was in the summer of 1797 that he carried forward his work on Phlogiston, alluded to on
p. 81. He understood quite well that the entire chemical world was against him but he was not
able to find good reasons

      to despair of the old system.

It must be remembered that in these days, also, he had Thomas Cooper with him. With this gentleman
he discussed his scientific studies and with him also he carried on many arguments upon the
burning subject of infidelity, about which he continuously wrote his friends in this country
and in England. It was quite generally believed that Cooper was an infidel. Never, however,
did their intimacy suffer in the slightest by their conflicting views.

The Church History continued to hold Priestley's first thought. He was a busy student, occupied
with a diversity of interests and usually cheerful and eager to follow up new lines of endeavor.
The arrival of vessels from the home country was closely watched. Books and apparatus were
brought by them. While, as observed, he was singularly cheerful and happy, he confessed at
times that

      my character as a philosopher is under a cloud.

Yet, this was but a momentary depression, for he uttered in almost the same breath--

    Everything will be cleared up in a reasonable time.

Amid the constant daily duties he found real solace in his scientific pursuits; indeed when
he was quite prepared to abandon all his activities he declared of his experiments that he
could not stop them for

    I consider them as that study of the works of the great Creator,
      which I shall resume with more advantage hereafter.

He advised his friends Lindsey and Belsham--

    I cannot express what I feel on receiving your letters. They set
      my thoughts afloat, so that I can do nothing but ruminate a
      long time; but it is a most pleasing melancholy.

Far removed from European events he was nevertheless ever keen and alert concerning them. Then
the winter of 1797 appears to have been very severe. His enforced confinement to home probably
gave rise to an introspection, and a slight disappointment in matters which had formerly given
him pleasure. For example, he puzzled over the fact that on his second visit to Philadelphia,
Mr. Adams was present but once at his lectures, and remarks--

    When my lectures were less popular, and he was near his
      presidentship, he left me, making a kind of apology, from the
      members of the principal Presbyterian Church having offered him a
      pew there. He seemed to interest himself in my favour against M.
      Volney, but did not subscribe to my Church History ... I suppose
      he was not pleased that I did not adopt his dislike of the French.

When January of 1798 arrived his joy was great. A box of books had come. Among them was a General
Dictionary which he regarded as a real treasure. Reading was now his principal occupation.
He found the making of many experiments irksome and seemed, all at once, "quite averse to having
his hands so much in water." Presumably these were innocent excuses for his devotion to the
Church History which had been brought up to date. Furthermore he was actually contemplating
transplanting himself to France. But with it all he wrote assiduously on religious topics,
and was highly pleased with the experimental work he had sent to Dr. Mitchill (p. 85).

He advised his friends of the "intercepted letters" which did him much harm when they were
published. They called down upon him severest judgement and suspicion, and made him--

      disliked by all the friends of the ruling power in this country.

It may be well to note that these "intercepted letters" were found on a Danish ship, inclosed
in a cover addressed to

      DR. PRIESTLEY, IN AMERICA

They came from friends, English and French, living in Paris. They abounded

      with matter of the most serious reflection.... If the animosity of
      these apostate Englishmen against their own country, their
      conviction that no submissions will avert our danger, and their
      description of the engines employed by the Directory for our
      destruction, were impressed as they ought to be, upon the minds of
      all our countrymen, we should certainly never again be told of the
      innocent designs of these traitors, or their associates--

The preceding quotation is from a booklet containing exact copies of the "intercepted letters."

In the first of the letters, dated Feb. 12, 1798, the correspondent of Priestley tells that
he had met a young Frenchman who had visited Northumberland

      and we all rejoiced at the aggreeable information that at the
      peace you would not fail to revisit Europe; and that he hoped you
      would fix yourself in this country (France). Whether you fix
      yourself here or in England, (as England will then be) is
      probably a matter of little importance ... but we all think you are
      misplaced where you are, though, no doubt, in the way of
      usefulness--

The editor of the letters annotates usefulness thus:

    Dr. Priestley is in the way of usefulness in America, because he
      is labouring there, as his associates are in Europe, to disunite
      the people from their government, and to introduce the blessings
      of French anarchy.

These "intercepted letters" in no way prove that Dr. Priestley was engaged in any movement
against his native land or against his adopted country. However, the whole world was in an
uproar. People were ready to believe the worst regarding their fellows, so it is not surprising
that he should have declared himself "disliked."

He alludes frequently to the marvelous changes taking place in the States. Everything was in
rapid motion. Taxes were the topic of conversation on all sides.

To divert his philosophizing he busied himself in his laboratory where many "original experiments
were made." He avoided the crowd. There was too great a party spirit. Indeed, there was violence,
so he determined not to visit Philadelphia. He sought to escape the "rancorous abuse" which
was being hurled at him--

      as a citizen of France.

One must read his correspondence to fully appreciate Priestley during the early days of 1799.
What must have been his mental condition when he wrote Lindsey--

    As to a public violent death the idea of that does not affect me
      near so much

and

    I cannot express what I feel when I receive and read your letters.
      I generally shed many tears over them.

There was no assurance in financial and commercial circles. The hopes of neither the more sober,
nor of the wild and fanatic reformers of humanity could be realized, and they got into such
a war of hate and abuse that they themselves stamped their doctrines false.

Priestley was out of patience with the public measures of the country. He disliked them as
much as he did those of England, but added

    Here the excellence of the Constitution provides a remedy, if the
      people will make use of it, and if not, they deserve what they
      suffer.

The Constitution was a favorite instrument with him. A most interesting lecture upon it will
be found among the Discourses which he proposed delivering in Philadelphia. This never occurred.

The Academy he expected to see in operation failed for support. The walls were raised and he
feared it would go no further. The Legislature had voted it $3000, but the Senate negatived
this act. He thought of giving up the presidency of it.

He wrote Dr. Rush that he was quite busy with replies to Dr. Woodhouse's attack on his confirmation
of the existence of phlogiston, (p. 88). He relished his discussions with Woodhouse and was
confident that eventually he would "overturn the French system of chemistry." He further remarked
to Rush--

    Were you at liberty to make an excursion as far as these back
      woods I shall be happy to see you, and so would many others.

But at that particular moment Rush was too much engaged in combating yellow fever, which again
ravaged Philadelphia, and all who could, fled, and the streets were "lifeless and dead." The
prevalence of this fearful plague was a potent factor in Priestley's failure to visit the City
during the year--the last year of a closing Century which did not end in the prosperity anticipated
for it in the hopeful months and years following the war. It seemed, in many ways, to be the
end of an era. Washington died December 14, 1799, and the Federalists' tenure of power was
coming to a close. The Jeffersonians, aided by eight of the electoral votes of Pennsylvania,
won the victory, amid outbursts of unprecedented political bitterness. It was, therefore, very
wise that the Doctor remained quietly at home in Northumberland with his experiments and Church
History.

The new Century--the 19th--found our beloved philosopher at times quite proud of the success
he had with his experiments and full of genuine hope that "phlogiston" was established; and
again dejected because of the "coarse and low articles" directed against him by the prints
of the day. To offset, in a measure, the distrust entertained for him because of the "intercepted
letters" he addressed a series of Letters to the inhabitants of Northumberland and vicinity.
These were explanatory of his views. At home they were most satisfying but in the city they
brought upon him "more abuse." And, so, he translated a passage from Petrarch which read--

      By civil fueds exiled my native home,
      Resign'd, though injured, hither I have come.
      Here, groves and streams, delights of rural ease;
      Yet, where the associates, wont to serve and please;
      The aspect bland, that bade the heart confide?
      Absent from these, e'en here, no joys abide.

And these were incorporated in his brochure.

Having alluded to the Letters addressed to the Northumberland folks, it may be proper to introduce
a letter which Priestley received from Mr. Jefferson, whom the former was disposed to hold
as "in many respects the first man in this Country:"

                        Philadelphia, Jan. 18, 1800.

  Dear Sir--

    I thank you for the pamphlets (Letters) you were so kind as to
      send me. You will know what I thought of them by my having before
      sent a dozen sets to Virginia, to distribute among my friends; yet
      I thank you not the less for these, which I value the more as they
      came from yourself.

    The papers of Political Arithmetic, both in yours and Mr. Cooper's
      pamphlets, are the most precious gifts that can be made to us; for
      we are running navigation-mad, and commerce-mad, and Navy-mad,
      which is worst of all. How desirable it is that you should pursue
      that subject for us. From the porcupines of our country you will
      receive no thanks, but the great mass of our nation will edify,
      and thank you.

    How deeply have I been chagrined and mortified at the persecutions
      which fanaticism and monarchy have excited against you, even here!
      At first, I believed it was merely a continuance of the English
      persecution; but I observe that, on the demise of Porcupine, and
      the division of his inheritance between Fenno and Brown, the
      latter (though succeeding only to the Federal portion of
      Porcupinism, not the Anglican, which is Fenno's part) serves up
      for the palate of his sect dishes of abuse against you as
      high-seasoned as Porcupine's were. You have sinned against Church
      and King, and therefore can never be forgiven. How sincerely I
      have regretted that your friend, before he fixed a choice of
      position, did not visit the valleys on each side of the blue range
      in Virginia, as Mr. Madison and myself so much wished. You would
      have found there equal soil, the finest climate, and the most
      healthy air on the earth, the homage of universal reverence and
      love, and the power of the country spread over you as a shield;
      but, since you would not make it your Country by adoption, you
      must now do it by your good offices.

Mr. Livingston, the Chancellor of New York, so approved the "Letters" that he got a new edition
of them printed at Albany.

The following letter to this same gentleman, although upon another subject than the "Letters"
is not devoid of interest. It has come into the writer's hands through the kind offices of
Dr. Thomas L. Montgomery, State Librarian of Pennsylvania:

  Sir,

    I think myself much honoured by your letter, and should have
      thought myself singularly happy if my situation had been near to
      such a person as you. Persons engaged in scientific pursuits are
      few in this country. Indeed, they are not very numerous anywhere.
      In other respects I think myself very happy where I am.

    I have never given much attention to machines of any kind, and
      therefore cannot pretend to decide concerning your proposal for
      the improvement of the fire engine. It appears to me to deserve
      attention. But I do not for want of a drawing see in what manner
      the steam is to be let into the cylinder, or discharged from it.
      There would be, I fear, an objection to it from the force
      necessary to raise the column of mercury, and from the evaporation
      of the mercury in the requisite heat. I have found that it loses
      weight in 70° Fahrenheit. If the mercury was pure, I should not
      apprehend much from the calcination of it, though, as I have
      observed, the agitation of it in water, converts a part of it into
      a black powder, which I propose to examine farther.

    If travelling was attended with no fewer inconveniences here than
      it is in England, I should certainly wait upon you and some other
      friends at New York. But this, and my age, render it impossible,
      and it would be unreasonable to expect many visitors in this back
      woods.

    I shall be very happy to be favoured with your correspondence, and
      am,

                                    Sir,

                                Yours sincerely,

                                  J. PRIESTLEY

Northumberland April 16, 1799.

In this period Thomas Cooper was convicted of libel. He was thrown into prison. Priestley regarded
him as a rising man in the Country.[7] He said the act was the last blow of the Federal party
"which is now broke up."

Priestley's daughter, in England, was ill at this time. Her life was despaired of and tidings
from her were few and most distressing, but the Doctor maintained a quiet and calm assurance
of her recovery.

Subsequent correspondence between Mr. Jefferson and Priestley had much in it about the new
College which the former contemplated for the State of Virginia. Indeed, the thought was entertained
that Priestley himself might become a professor in it, but his advanced age, he contended forbade
this, although he was agreeable to the idea of getting professors from Europe.

Here, perhaps, may well be included several letters, now in possession of the Library of Congress,
which reveal the attitude of Dr. Priestley toward President Jefferson, who was indeed most
friendly to him:

  Dear Sir--

    I am flattered by your thinking so favourably of my pamphlets,
      which were only calculated to give some satisfaction to my
      suspicious neighbours. Chancellor Livingston informs me that he
      has got an edition of them printed at Albany, for the information
      of the people in the back country, where, he says, it is so much
      wanted. Indeed, it seems extraordinary, that in such a country as
      this, where there is no court to dazzle men's eyes a maxim as
      plain as that 2 and 2 make 4 should not be understood, and acted
      upon. It is evident that the bulk of mankind are governed by
      something very different from reasoning and argument. This
      principle must have its influence even in your Congress, for if
      the members are not convinced by the excellent speeches of Mr.
      Gallatin and Nicolas, neither would they be persuaded tho one
      should rise from the dead.

    It is true that I had more to do with colleges, and places of
      education, than most men in Europe; but I would not pretend to
      advise in this country. I will, however, at my leisure, propose
      such hints as shall occur to me; and if you want tutors from
      England, I can recommend some very good ones. Were I a few years
      younger, and more moveable, I should make interest for some
      appointment in your institution myself; but age and inactivity are
      fast approaching, and I am so fixed here, that a remove is
      absolutely impossible, unless you were possessed of Aladin's
      lamp, and could transport my house, library, and laboratory,
      into Virginia without trouble or expense.

    On my settlement here the gentlemen in the neighbourhood, thinking
      to make me of some use, set on foot a college, of which I gave
      them the plan, and they got it incorporated, and made me the
      president; but tho I proposed to give lectures gratis, and had
      the disposal of a valuable library at the decease of a learned
      friend (new, near so), and had it in my power to render them
      important service in various ways, yet, owing I suspect, in part
      at least, to religious and political prejudices, nothing more has
      been done, besides marking the site of a building these five
      years, so that I have told them I shall resign.

    I much wish to have some conversation with you on social subjects;
      but I cannot expect that the Vice President of the United States
      should visit me in my shed at Northumberland, and I cannot come
      to you. I intended on my settling here to have spent a month or so
      every winter at Philadelphia, but the state of the times, and
      various accidents, have a little deranged my finances, and I
      prefer to spend what I can spare on my experiments, and
      publication, rather than in travelling and seeing my friends.

          With the greatest respect, I am,
              Dear Sir,
                  Yours sincerely,
                      J. PRIESTLEY.

Northumberland Jan. 30, 1800.

  Dear Sir--

    I enclose my thoughts on the subject you did me the honour to
      propose to me. Your own better judgment will decide concerning
      their value, or their fitness for the circumstances of your
      College. This may require a very different distribution of the
      business from that which I here recommend.

