INFORMANTS

Holbert, Clayton Simms, Bill Williams, Belle

THE AMERICAN GUIDE TOPEKA, KANSAS

EX SLAVE STORY OTTAWA, KANSAS BY: Leta Gray (interviewer)

"My name is Clayton Holbert, and I am an ex slave. I am eighty-six years old. I was born and
raised in Linn County, Tennessee. My master's name was Pleasant "Ples" Holbert. My master had
a fairly large plantation; he had, I imagine, around one hundred slaves."

"I was working the fields during the wind-up of the Civil War. They always had a man in the
field to teach the small boys to work, and I was one of the boys. I was learning to plant corn,
etc. My father, brother and uncle went to war on the Union side."

"We raised corn, barley, and cotton, and produced all of our living on the plantation. There
was no such thing as going to town to buy things. All of our clothing was homespun, our socks
were knitted, and everything. We had our looms, and made our own suits, we also had reels,
and we carved, spun, and knitted. We always wore yarn socks for winter, which we made. It didn't
get cold, in the winter in Tennessee, just a little frost was all. We fixed all of our cotton
and wool ourselves."

"For our meat we used to kill fifteen, twenty, or fifty, and sometimes a hundred hogs. We usually
had hickory. It was considered the best for smoking meat, when we butchered. Our meat we had
then was the finest possible. It had a lot more flavor than that which you get now. If a person
ran out of meat, he would go over to his neighbor's house, and borrow or buy meat, we didn't
think about going to town. When we wanted fresh meat we or some of the neighbors would kill
a hog or sheep, and would divide this, and then when we butchered we would give them part of
ours. People were more friendly then then they are now. They have almost lost respect for each
other. Now if you would give your neighbor something they would never think of paying it back.
You could also borrow wheat or whatever you wanted, and you could pay it back whenever you
thrashed."

"We also made our own sorghum, dried our own fruits. We usually dried all of our things as
we never heard of such a thing as canning."

"We always had brandy, wine, and cider on hand, and nothing was thought of it. We used to give
it to the children even. When we had corn husks, log rolling, etc., we would invite all of
the neighbors over, and then we would serve refreshments of wine, brandy or cider."

"We made our own maple syrup from the maple sugar trees. This is a lot better than the refined
sugar people have nowdays, and is good for you too. You can't get this now though, except sometimes
and it is awfully high priced. On the plantations the slaves usually had a house of their own
for their families. They usually built their houses in a circle, so you didn't have to go out
doors hardly to go to the house next to you. If you wanted your house away from the rest of
the houses, they could build you a house away from the others and separate."

I was never sold, I always had just my one master. When slave owners died, if they had no near
relatives to inherit their property, they would 'Will' the slaves their freedom, instead of
giving them to someone else. My grandmother, and my mother were both freed like this, but what
they called 'nigger traders' captured them, and two or three others, and they took them just
like they would animals, and sold them, that was how 'Ples' Holbert got my mother. My grandmother
was sent to Texas. My mother said she wrote and had one letter from my grandmother after that,
but she never saw her again."

"My mother used to be a cook, and when she was busy cooking, my mistress would nurse both me
and her baby, who was four weeks older than me. If it happened the other way around, my mother
would nurse both of us. They didn't think anything about it. When the old people died, and
they left small orphan children, the slaves would raise the children. My young master was raised
like this, he has written to me several times, since I have been out here in Kansas, but the
last time I wrote, I have had no reply, so I suppose he was dead."

"When anyone died, they used to bury the body at least six feet under the ground. There wasn't
such a thing as a cemetery then, they were just buried right on the plantation, usually close
to the house. They would put the body in a wagon, and walk to where to bury the person, and
they would sing all of the way."

"The slaves used to dance or go to the prayer meeting to pass their time. There were also festivals
we went to, during the Christmas vacation. There was always a big celebration on Christmas.
We worked until Christmas Eve and from that time until New Year's we had a vacation. We had
no such thing as Thanksgiving, we had never heard of such a thing."

"In August when it was the hottest we always had a vacation after our crops were all laid by.
That was the time when we usually had several picnics, barbecues or anything we wanted to do
to pass our time away."

"After the war was over, and my father, brother and uncle had gone to war, it left my mother
alone practically. My mother had always been a cook, and that was all she knew, and after the
war she got her freedom, she and me, I was seven or eight years old, and my brother was fourteen,
and my sister was about sixteen. My mother didn't know what to do, and I guess we looked kind
of pitiful, finally my master said that we could stay and work for him a year, people worked
by the year then. We stayed there that year, and then we also stayed there the following year,
and he paid us the second year. After that we went to another place, Roof Macaroy, and then
my sister got married while we were there, and then she moved on her husband's master's place,
and then we went too. After that I moved on another part and farmed for two or three years,
and then we moved to another part of the plantation and lived there three or four years. That
was almost the center of things, and we held church there. All of the colored people would
gather there. The colored people who had been in the North were better educated than the people
in the South. They would come down to the South and help the rest of us. The white people would
also try to promote religion among the colored people. Our church was a big log cabin. We lived
in it, but we moved from one of the large rooms into a small one, so we could have church.
I remember one time after we had been down on the creek bank fishing, that was what we always
did on Sunday, because we didn't know any better, my master called us boys and told us we should
go to Sunday school instead of going fishing. I remember that to this day, and I have only
been fishing one or two times since. Then I didn't know what he was talking about, but two
or three years later I learned what Sunday school was, and I started to go."

"I went to a subscription school. We would all pay a man to come to teach us. I used to work
for my room and board on Saturday's, and go to school five days a week. That would have been
all right, if I had kept it up, but I didn't for very long, I learned to read and write pretty
good though. There were no Government school then that were free."

"We didn't have a name. The slaves were always known by the master's last name, and after we
were freed we just took the last name of our masters and used it. After we had got our freedom
papers, they had our ages and all on them, they were lost so we guess at our ages."

"Most of the slave owners were good to their slaves although some of them were brutish of course."

"In 1877 a lot of people began coming out here to Kansas, and in 1878 there were several, but
in 1879 there were an awful lot of colored people immigrating. We came in 1877 to Kansas City,
October 1. We landed about midnight. We came by train. Then there was nothing but little huts
in the bottoms. The Santa Fe depot didn't amount to anything. The Armours' Packing house was
even smaller than that. There was a swinging bridge over the river. The Kaw Valley was considered
good-for-nothing, but to raise hemp. There was an awful lot of it grown there though, and there
were also beavers in the Kaw River, and they used to cut down trees to build their dams. I
worked several years and in 1880 I came to Franklin County."

"We raised a lot of corn, and castor beans. That was the money crop. Corn at that time wasn't
hard to raise. People never plowed their corn more than three times, and they got from forty
to fifty bushels per acre. There were no weeds and it was virgin soil. One year I got seventy-two
bushel of corn per acre, and I just plowed it once. That may sound 'fishy' but it is true."

"There used to be a castor bean mill here, and I have seen the wagons of castor beans lined
from Logan Street to First Street, waiting to unload. They had to number the wagons to avoid
trouble and they made them keep their places. There also used to be a water mill here, but
it burned."

"There were lots of Indians here in the Chippewas. They were harmless though. They were great
to come in town, and shoot for pennies. They were good shots, and it kept you going to keep
them supplied with pennies, for them to shoot with their bows and arrows, as they almost always
hit them. They were always dressed in their red blankets."

"I have never used ones for work. They were used quite a bit, although I have never used them.
They were considered to be good after they were broken."

"I was about twenty-two years old when I married, and I have raised six children. They live
over by Appanoose. I ruined my health hauling wood. I was always a big fellow, I used to weigh
over two hundred eighty-five pounds, but I worked too hard, working both summer and winter."

"My father's mother lived 'till she was around ninety or a hundred years old. She got so bent
at the last she was practically bent double. She lived about two years after she was set free."

"I used to live up around Appanoose, but I came to Franklin County and I have stayed here ever
since." [TR: Information moved from bottom of last page.]

"My name is Bill Simms."

"I was born in Osceola, Missouri, March 16, 1839."

"I lived on the farm with my mother, and my master, whose name was Simms. I had an older sister,
about two years older than I was. My master needed some money so he sold her, and I have never
seen her since except just a time or two."

"On the plantation we raised cows, sheep, cotton, tobacco, corn, which were our principal crops.
There was plenty of wild hogs, turkey, ant deer and other game. The deer used to come up and
feed with the cattle in the feed yards, and we could get all the wild hogs we wanted by simply
shooting them in the timber."

"A man who owned ten slaves was considered wealthy, and if he got hard up for money, he would
advertise and sell some slaves, like my oldest sister was sold on the block with her children.
She sold for eleven hundred dollars, a baby in her arms sold for three hundred dollars. Another
sold for six hundred dollars and the other for a little less than that. My master was offered
fifteen hundred dollars for me several times, but he refused to sell me, because I was considered
a good husky, slave. My family is all dead, and I am the only one living.

"The slaves usually lived in a two-room house made of native lumber. The houses were all small.
A four or five room house was considered a mansion. We made our own clothes, had spinning wheels
and raised and combed our own cotton, clipped the wool from our sheep's backs, combed and spun
it into cotton and wool clothes. We never knew what boughten clothes were. I learned to make
shoes when I was just a boy and I made the shoes for the whole family. I used to chop wood
and make rails and do all kinds of farm work."

"I had a good master, most of the masters were good to their slaves. When a slave got too old
to work they would give him a small cabin on the plantation and have the other slaves to wait
on him. They would furnish him with victuals, and clothes until he died."

"Slaves were never allowed to talk to white people other than their masters or someone their
master knew, as they were afraid the white man might have the slave run away. The masters aimed
to keep their slaves in ignorance and the ignorant slaves were all in favor of the Rebel army,
only the more intelligent were in favor of the Union army."

"When the war started, my master sent me to work for the Confederate army. I worked most of
the time for three years off and on, hauling canons, driving mules, hauling ammunition, and
provisions. The Union army pressed in on us and the Rebel army moved back. I was sent home.
When the Union army came close enough I ran away from home and joined the Union army. There
I drove six-mule team and worked at wagon work, driving ammunition and all kinds of provisions
until the war ended. Then I returned home to my old master, who had stayed there with my mother.
My master owned about four hundred acres of good land, and had had ten slaves. Most of the
slaves stayed at home. My master hired me to work for him. He gave my mother forty acres of
land with a cabin on it and sold me a forty acres, for twenty dollars, when I could pay him.
This was timbered land and had lots of good trees for lumber, especially walnut. One tree on
this ground was worth one hundred dollars, if I could only get it cut and marketed, I could
pay for my land. My master's wife had been dead for several years and they had no children.
The nearest relative being a nephew. They wanted my master's land and was afraid he would give
it all away to us slaves, so they killed him, and would have killed us if we had stayed at
home. I took my mother and ran into the adjoining, Claire County. We settled there and stayed
for sometime, but I wanted to see Kansas, the State I had heard so much about."

"I couldn't get nobody to go with me, so I started out afoot across the prairies for Kansas.
After I got some distance from home it was all prairie. I had to walk all day long following
buffalo trail. At night I would go off a little ways from the trail and lay down and sleep.
In the morning I'd wake up and could see nothing but the sun and prairie. Not a house, not
a tree, no living thing, not even could I hear a bird. I had little to eat, I had a little
bread in my pocket. I didn't even have a pocket knife, no weapon of any kind. I was not afraid,
but I wouldn't start out that way again. The only shade I could find in the daytime was the
rosin weed on the prairie. I would lay down so it would throw the shade in my face and rest,
then get up and go again. It was in the spring of the year in June. I came to Lawrence, Kansas,
where I stayed two years working on the farm. In 1874 I went to work for a man by the month
at $35 a month and I made more money than the owner did, because the grasshoppers ate up the
crops. I was hired to cut up the corn for him, but the grasshoppers ate it up first. He could
not pay me for sometime. Grasshoppers were so thick you couldn't step on the ground without
stepping on about a dozen at each step. I got my money and came to Ottawa in December 1874,
about Christmas time."

"My master's name was Simms and I was known as Simms Bill, just like horses. When I came out
here I just changed my name from Simms Bill, to Bill Simms."

"Ottawa was very small at the time I came here, and there were several Indians close by that
used to come to town. The Indians held their war dance on what is now the courthouse grounds.
I planted the trees that are now standing on the courthouse grounds. I still planted trees
until three or four years ago. There were few farms fenced and what were, were on the streams.
The prairie land was all open. This is what North Ottawa was, nothing but prairie north of
Logan Street, and a few houses between Logan Street and the river. Ottawa didn't have many
business houses. There was also an oil mill where they bought castor beans, and made castor
oil on the north side of the Marais des Cygnes River one block west of Main Street. There was
one hotel, which was called Leafton House and it stood on what is now the southwest corner
of Main and Second Streets."

"I knew Peter Kaiser, when I came here, and A.P. Elder was just a boy then."

"The people lived pretty primitive. We didn't have kerosene. Our only lights were tallow candles,
mostly grease lamps, they were just a pan with grease in it, and one end of the rag dragging
out over the side which we would light. There were no sewers at that time."

"I had no chance to go to school when a boy, but after I came to Kansas I was too old to go
to school, and I had to work, but I attended night school, and learned to read and write and
figure."

"The farm land was nearly all broke up by ox teams, using about six oxen on a plow. In Missouri
we lived near the Santa Fe trail, and the settlers traveling on the trail used oxen, and some
of them used cows. The cows seem to stand the road better than the oxen and also gave some
milk. The travelers usually aimed to reach the prairie States in the spring, so they could
have grass for their oxen and horses during the summer."

"I have lived here ever since I came here. I was married when I was about thirty years old.
I married a slave girl from Georgia. Back in Missouri, if a slave wanted to marry a woman on
another plantation he had to ask the master, and if both masters agreed they were married.
The man stayed at his owners, and the wife at her owners. He could go to see her on Saturday
night and Sunday. Sometimes only every two weeks. If a man was a big strong man, neighboring
plantation owners would ask him to come over and see his gals, hoping that he might want to
marry one of them, but if a Negro was a small man he was not cared for as a husband, as they
valued their slaves as only for what they could do, just like they would horses. When they
were married and if they had children they belonged to the man who owned the woman. Osceola
is where the saying originated, 'I'm from Missouri, show me.' After the war the smart guys
came through and talked the people into voting bonds, but there was no railroad built and most
counties paid their bonds, but the county in which Osceola stands refused to pay for their
bonds because there was no railroad built, and they told the collectors to 'show me the railroad
and we will pay,' and that is where 'show me' originated."

"My wife died when we had three children. She had had to work hard all her life and she said
she didn't want her children to have to work as hard as she had, and I promised her on her
death bed, that I would educate our girls. So I worked and sent the girls to school. My two
girls both graduated from Ottawa university, the oldest one being the first colored girl to
ever graduate from that school. After graduation she went to teach school in Oklahoma, but
only got twenty-five dollars a month, and I had to work and send her money to pay her expenses.
The younger girl also graduated and went to teach school, but she did not teach school long,
until she married a well-to-do farmer in Oklahoma. The older girl got her wages raised until
she got one hundred and twenty-five dollars per month. I have worked at farm work and tree
husbandry all my life. My oldest daughter bought me my first suit of clothes I ever had."

"I have been living alone about twenty-five years. I don't know hew old I was, but my oldest
daughter had written my mother before she died, and got our family record, which my mother
kept in her old Bible. Each year she writes me and tells me on my birthday how old I am."

THE AMERICAN GUIDE TOPEKA, KANSAS

EX SLAVE STORY HUTCHINSON, KANSAS INTERVIEWER: E. Jean Foote

Belle Williams was born in slavery about the year 1850 or 1851. Her mother's name was Elizabeth
Hulsie, being the slave of Sid Hulsie, her last name being the name of her master. The Hulsie
plantation was located in Carroll County, Arkansas. Belle Williams, better known as "Auntie
Belle" is most interesting. She lives in her own little home in the one hundred block on Harvey
Street, Hutchinson, Kansas. She is too old and crippled to do hard work, so spends most of
her time smoking her pipe and rocking in her old armchair on the little porch of her home.
She is jolly, and most interesting.

"Yes, I was a slave," she said. "I was born a slave on a plantation in Carroll County, Arkansas
and lived there 'till after the war. Law sakes, honey, I can see them 'Feds' yet, just as plain
as if it was yesterday. We had a long lane--you know what a lane is--well, here they come!
I run for mah mammy, and I'll never forget how she grabbed me and let out a yell, "It's them
Feds, them blue coats."

"You see my massa was a good massa. He didn't believe in whipping niggers and he didn't believe
in selling niggers, and so my mammy and me, we didn't want to leave our mistress and massa.
We called them 'Mother Hulsie' and 'Massa Sid.' One officer told my mammy that she could take
along with her, anything out of the cabin that she wanted. Mammy looked around and said, "I
don't want to take nothin' but my chillun," so we all told Mother Hulsie 'goodbye,' and when
my mammy told her goodbye, why Mother Hulsie cried and cried, and said, 'I just can't let you
go, Elizabeth, but go on peacefully, and maybe some day you can come back and see me.'"

As the story came word after word, big tears dropped on the thin black hands, and she reached
for her tobacco can and pipe. The can was missing, so I offered to get it for her, for I was
anxious for one peep into "Auntie's" little house, but I couldn't find the can, so after moans
and sighs, she got to her feet and found her favorite Granger Twist. After settling; again
in her chair, and when her pipe was at its best, "Auntie" continued, "Oh, honey, it was awful!
You see I never been nowhere and I was scairt so I hung onto my mammy. The soldiers took us
to camp that night, and after staying there several days, we went on to Springfield, Missouri,
and it was right at fifty-two years ago that I came here. I was married to Fuller, my first
husband and had seven chilluns. He helped me raise them that lived and, after he died, I married
Williams and had two chilluns, but he didn't help me raise my chilluns. Why, honey, I raised
my chilluns and my chilluns' chilluns, and even one great-grandchild now. Why, I always been
a slave. I worked for all the early white families in this here town that needed help."

I asked "Auntie" if she were ever sold on the block, and she answered, "Law sakes, honey, I
must tell you. No, I never was sold, but nuthin' but the Dear Blessed Lawd saved me. You see
Massa Sid had gone away for a few days, and his boys was takin' care of things, when some nigger
traders came and wanted to buy some niggers, and they picked on my grandmammy and me. How old
was I? Well, I reckon I was about fourteen. You see, honey, I never could read or write, but
I can count, and I can remember--Lawdy! how I can remember. Well, there I was on the block,
just scairt and shivering--I was just cold all over--and them there nigger traders was jest
a talkin', when down that long lane came Massa Sid, and I'm tellin' you, it was the Dear Lawd
that sent him. He was a ridin' on his hoss, and he stopped right in front of me, standing there
on the block. He looked at his boys, then he turned to them nigger traders and yelled out,
"What you all doin' here?" The boys told him there was just so many niggers on the place, and
they wanted some money and when the nigger traders come along they thought they would sell
a few niggers. Honey, I'm tellin' you, Massa Sid turned to them nigger traders and said, "you
nigger traders get out of here. These are my niggers and I don't sell niggers. I can feed them
all, I don't want any help." He grabbed me right off of the block and put me on the hoss in
front of him and set me down in front of my cabin. Sceered, oh Lawdy I was sceered! No, suh,
Massa Sid never sold no niggers."

"I must tell you about what happened one night while we were all there in the camp. One of
the massa's boys that loved my uncle, came crawling on all fours, just like a pig, into camp.
He passed the pickets, and when he found my uncle he laid there on the ground in my uncle's
arms and cried like a baby. My uncle was old but he cried too and after a while he told the
boy that he must go back--he was 'fraid that the pickets would see him and he would be shot,
so he went with him, crawling on all fours just like a pig, till he got him past the pickets,
and our young master never saw my uncle any more. Oh, honey, them was heart-breakin' times.
The first night we was in camp, my mammy got to thinking about Mother Hulsie and how she was
left all alone with all the work, and not a soul to help her. The blue coats had gone through
the house and upset everything, so in the morning she asked the captain if she could ask just
one thing of him, and that was that she and my uncle go back to Mother Hulsie just for the
day, and help put everything away and do the washing. The captain said they could go, but they
must be back by five o'clock, and not one nigger child could go along, so they went back for
the day and mammy did all the washing, every rag that she could find, and my uncle chopped
and stacked outside the house, all the wood that he could chop that day, and then they came
back to camp. My mammy said she'd never forget Mother Hulsie wringing her hands and crying,
'Oh Lawd, what will I do?' as they went down the land."

