
Both streets were thronged with men, women, and children--some with bundles, packages, and
baby-carriages; but the usual method was to drag a trunk, which made a harsh, scraping noise
on the sidewalk. I overtook a man dragging a trunk with a valise on the top which kept frequently
falling off. As I approached him I took the valise in my hand and with the other took hold
of the rope and helped him drag the heavy trunk. As we were strangers, I am sure that he at
first took me for a thief who intended to steal the valise. I at once entered into conversation
with him, and from his manner later on I think he changed his mind, for when I left him a few
blocks away he was hearty in his thanks.

While passing the Knickerbocker Hotel, on Van Ness Avenue, I saw a party of ladies and an elderly
gentleman. They were very much excited and were hesitating about returning to their rooms for
their personal effects. I stopped and assured them that they had plenty of time to go and return
as many times as they wished, as the fire would not reach Van Ness Avenue for at least five
hours. It did not reach there for thirteen hours. I think I succeeded in quieting them, at
least for a time.

When I arrived at Sacramento Street and Van Ness Avenue I saw a woman tugging at a trunk which
had caught on the car-track, and I helped her release it. From the speed at which the fire
was traveling I judged that it could not reach that spot in many hours, I advised her, as she
was safe, not to over-exert herself, but to take frequent rests. She would not take my advice
and I was obliged to leave her.

The throng of moving people, men and women with babies and bird cages, and everything which
they held most valuable on earth, began early Wednesday morning and continued until the afternoon
of Thursday. Early Thursday morning Mr. Wilcox, with his mother and sister, and Mrs. Hicks
and daughter left our house and were able to cross to Oakland, where they got a train for Los
Angeles. Dr. and Mrs. Whitney went to a friend's house. Early in the morning I went over to
the California-Street power-house and had a talk with Superintendent Harris. He said that he
had run out 20 cars, but as the water was shut off and very low in the boilers, it was not
safe to get up steam, and he was unable to get horses to haul away the cars; so nothing could
be done but await the result, which was that every car in the house and those in the street,
some of them eight blocks away, 52 in number, were all burned. Not one was left. I came back
to 1801 Van Ness Avenue. The wind was light but was from the northwest. At 9 A. M. I sent in
my son's automobile my personal clothing, silverware, bedding, and linen to Mrs. Oxnard's,
2104 Broadway, and at 10:30 I had the rugs and some other things ready, and he took them to
the Presidio. Matters about this time began to be rather wild. Van Ness Avenue was filled with
people, all pale and earnest, every one loaded with bundles and dragging valises or trunks.

We concluded that it was best for Mrs. Winslow and the children to leave the city; so my son
with his automobile took them to Burlingame. He had but little gasoline in his machine, and
it was very doubtful if he had enough to make the run there and return. Not a drop could be
obtained in the city. He learned that it might be obtained at the Washington-Street police
station, so applied for some, but could get none, and barely escaped the appropriation of his
machine by the police, by saying that he was preparing to take out of the city a load of women
and children, and starting up suddenly and getting out of their reach. So, with the children,
Mrs. Winslow, and a few articles of apparel hastily gathered together, he, by a circuitous
and zigzag route, out of the city, made the trip and landed them safely in Burlingame at 4
o'clock. They could get no accommodation at the club, so they accepted the hospitality of Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Coleman in a tent, and the next morning (Friday) went to Mr. and Mrs. Will
Tevis's. Their kitchen chimney had not fallen, which made it possible to have cooking in the
house, and as they had wells, the men put the pumps in order; so they had the luxury of a bath.
When she left San Francisco she expected her own house and mine would certainly be burned.
So, with neither telephone, telegraph, nor mail, she passed many anxious hours until Monday,
the 23rd, when she heard that both houses were saved.

At 11:30 A. M. of Thursday from my window I could see blazes on Jones Street at Clay, and southerly
as far as Sutter and Leavenworth. About this hour, although the fire did not reach here until
after 3 o'clock, the soldiers and police drove the people from their stores and houses on Polk
Street. Johnson & Co. were ordered out and not permitted to return to save books and papers,
although they begged permission to do so. I think the Pleasanton was on fire at about this
time. At noon the flames were continuous from Clay, on Jones, to California. At 1:30 it had
almost reached Hyde and Clay, and was continuous from that point to Polk and Sutter, the blaze
reaching from 50 to 75 feet high. At 2:30 it was approaching Van Ness at Hyde and Washington,
and reaching south as far as Sutter and Van Ness. I was in my front room watching with my field-glass,
house after house take fire and the long line as I have just described. I saw many pigeons
flying wildly about, seeking some place of safety. As it approached Van Ness it did not burn
north of Washington Street. The wind being northwest, and Van Ness Avenue 125 feet in width,
I felt sure the fire would not cross. While the fire was thus raging, the thought came to me,
How fast in value is property being consumed?--and as I looked at the line of flame, I remember
I thought it must be as much as a million dollars an hour. It shows how imperfect in this matter
was my estimate, when later the loss is estimated to be four hundred millions, and the duration
of the fire, from 5:15 A. M., the 18th to 3 P. M. of the 20th--say sixty hours, which would
be at the rate of about six million five hundred thousand per hour.

At 3 o'clock the soldiers drove the people north on Van Ness and west up to Franklin Street,
saying that they were going to dynamite the east side of Van Ness. From my window I watched
the movements of the fire-fighters and dynamiters. They first set fire to every house on the
east side of Van Ness Avenue between Washington and Bush streets, and by 3:30 nearly every
one was on fire. Their method was this: A soldier would, with a vessel like a fruit-dish in
his hand, containing some inflammable stuff, enter the house, climb to the second floor, go
to the front window, open it, pull down the shade and curtain, and set fire to the contents
of his dish. In a short time the shades and curtain would be in a blaze. When the fire started
slowly, they would throw bricks and stones up to the windows and break the glass to give it
draught. It took about 20 minutes for a building to get well on fire. From 4 to 4:30 St. Luke's
and the Presbyterian Church and all the houses on Van Ness Avenue from Bush to Washington were
on fire. At about this time they began dynamiting. Then they started backfiring, and, as the
line, of fire was at Polk Street, the idea was to meet the flames and not allow them to cross
Van Ness Avenue. This was a great mistake, as it caused the whole of the blocks between those
streets to be on fire at once, which made an intense heat, while if allowed to approach Van
Ness from Polk Street the heat would have been much less, and would not have ignited the west
side of Van Ness. The explosions of dynamite were felt fearfully in my house; those within
two blocks would jar and shake the house violently, breaking the windows, and at the same time
setting off the burglar alarm. As the windows would break it tore the shades and curtains,
covered the floor with glass, and cracked the walls. After it was over I found that it had
demolished in my house twelve plates and fifty-four sheets of glass, each measuring about thirty
by fifty inches.

At 4:45 1 was ordered out of my house by the soldiers,--not in a quiet manner, but with an
order that there was no mistaking its terms and meaning,--about like this: "Get out of this
house!" I replied: "But this is my house and I have a right to stay here if I choose." "Get
out d--n quick, and make no talk about it, either!" So a soldier with a bayonet on his gun
marched me up Clay Street to Gough amid flames, smoke, and explosions. Feeling exhausted from
climbing the steep street, and when within one hundred feet of Gough Street I rested on a doorstep.
I had not been there for more than two minutes before a soldier on the opposite side of the
street leveled his gun and cried out, "Get out of that old man, and go up on to Gough Street."
As he had a loaded gun, and appeared very important, I quickly obeyed his polite order. As
I reluctantly ascended Clay Street in charge of the soldier, I held back long enough to see
the steeple of the Presbyterian Church fall. I stayed at Gough Street a while, looking down
upon my house, expecting every minute to see the flames coming out of it. I watched from Gough
Street with much anxiety, and made up my mind that I would see if I could not get back into
my house, for I believed I could save it. The heat was so intense that it had driven the guards
away from Van Ness Avenue; so, seeing no one near, I quietly slipped down the north side of
Washington Street to Franklin. As no one was around there, I continued to Washington and Van
Ness and, putting up my coat-collar and protecting the side of my face with my hat, I ran along
Van Ness to my front door and quickly got into the house again at 5:40, being kept out fifty-five
minutes. My clothing got very hot but was not scorched. This I did at a great risk of my life,
for these soldiers were very arrogant and consequential at having a little brief authority,
and I was afraid they would not hesitate to shoot on slight provocation. I felt provoked and
disgusted that I had to take such a risk to enter my own house. When I returned, Mr. Merrill's
house had been dynamited, and the two churches, St. Luke's and the First Presbyterian, the
Bradbury house at the corner of Van Ness and California Street, and the Knickerbocker Hotel
adjoining, and the Gunn house, corner of Clay and Franklin, had shared the same fate.

On getting into my house again, I saw that the Neustadter house, at the corner of Sacramento
and Van Ness, was half-consumed, but it had not set on fire the Spreckels residence, and as
at this time Mr. Merrill's house, which had been dynamited the second time, was so demolished,
I felt that I could consider that my house had passed the critical time, for I hoped that Mr.
Merrill's house in burning would not endanger the west side of Van Ness.

But now a new danger threatened. The range of blocks from the north side of Washington Street
to the south side of Jackson were on fire at Hyde Street, and the flames coming toward Van
Ness Avenue, with the possibility of crossing. The Spreckels stable on Sacramento and also
the houses back of the Neustadter residence were now on fire. This, I knew, would set fire
to the three Gorovan cottages, two other two-story houses, and the dynamited house of Mr. Gunn,
all fronting on Clay Street, between Van Ness and Franklin. So I watched from my front window,
the fire approach Van Ness between Washington and Jackson, then going to my back window to
see the threatened danger from Clay Street. The Wenban residence, at the corner of Jackson
and Van Ness, was well on fire at 6:15; at 6:55 it fell in. The Clay-Street danger began at
about 7:30 P. M.. At 8:15 the whole front as here described was blazing and at its full height.
My windows were so hot that I could not bear my hand on them. I opened one and felt the woodwork,
which was equally hot. I had buckets of water in the front and rear rooms, with an improvised
swab, made by tying up a feather duster, ready to put out any small fire which would be within
my reach. I watched the situation for an hour, and as the flames died down a little I had hope,
and at 10 P. M. I felt satisfied that it would not cross Van Ness Avenue, and neither would
it cross Clay Street. At this time, as the heat had somewhat subsided, I ventured out, and
saw a small flame, about as large as my two hands, just starting on the tower of Mrs. Schwabacher's
house, which is next to mine on Clay Street. A very few people were around. James Walton of
the Twenty-eighth Coast Artillery, was there, also C. C. Jones, of 2176 Fulton Street, and
David Miller Ferguson, of Oakland. I said I would give any man ten dollars who would go up
and put out that fire. They went into the house with a can of water, climbed the stairs and
opened a window, and in a few minutes put it out. Two of the men would accept nothing; the
soldier, the next day, accepted ten dollars. I later presented Ferguson with a gold matchbox
as a reminder of that eventful night. Had Mrs. Schwabacher's house gone, all in the block would
have gone; the fire would have crossed to the north, up Pacific, Broadway, and Vallejo, and
probably over to Fillmore, when very little would have been left of the residence portion of
the city.

Now again another danger came. Another tier of blocks, from Leavenworth to Van Ness, between
Jackson and Pacific, had taken fire. This was about 10:15 P. M.. At 11:15 it had got to Van
Ness, and Bothin's house, which was at the corner of Van Ness and Jackson, was fully on fire,
but although it was entirely consumed, the fire did not cross to the west side of Van Ness.
The wind during all the day and evening was steady from the northwest,--not a very strong wind,
but it helped protect the west side of Van Ness. At 12 o'clock on the beginning of the 20th
I saw smoke coming out of the chimney of the Spreckels mansion. I went out and spoke to a fireman,
and he said he had been into the house and that it was full of smoke and on fire. At 1 o'clock
the house was on fire in the upper rooms, at 1:30 it was blazing out of the upper windows,
and in a short time afterwards was wholly on fire. The fire caught the house from the rear
windows by the blaze from the Gorovan cottages. I feel quite sure that if any one had been
on guard inside with a bucket of water the fire could have been put out.

When the Spreckels house was well on fire I knew, from its having an iron frame, hollow tile
partitions, and stone outside walls, there would be no danger from the heat to my house. As
I was quite tired, I told the man Ferguson that I would go into my house and take a nap. He
asked me what room I would sleep in, and he promised if they were about to dynamite my house,
or any other danger threatened, he would knock on my window to give me warning to get out.
I went in and lay down on a lounge in the library at 2 A. M. and slept until 5 A. M.. When
I awoke and looked out the flames were pouring from every window of the Spreckels mansion.
At 10 A. M. the house was thoroughly burned out. (The general appearance of the house from
a distance is the same as formerly, the walls and roof remaining the same as before the fire.)

In the morning I went over to the California-Street engine-house, and found it in ruins. Beams,
pipes, iron columns, tie-rods, car-trucks, and a tangled mass of iron-work; all that was not
consumed of 32 cars, bricks, mortar, ashes, and debris of every description filled the place.
The engine-room was hot, but I crawled into it through what was left of the front stairway,
which was nearly filled with loose bricks, and the stone facings of the Hyde-Street front.
It was a sad sight to me, for I had something to do with it from its earliest existence. The
form of everything was there, but rods, cranks, beams, and pipes were bent and burned, whether
beyond hope of restoration I could not tell. No one was there or on the street, and I came
away with uncertain feelings. I had hope, but whether the loss would be total or partial I
could not say. A further examination showed much damage--one shaft fourteen inches in diameter
was bent out of line one and one-quarter inches; one eight inches in diameter, seven eighths
of an inch; some of the large sheaves badly twisted. A new cable coiled on a reel ready for
use was so badly burned in the portion exposed as to render the whole useless. As strange as
it may seem brass oilers and fillers on the engine-frames were comparatively uninjured. The
tank, encased in brick, contained 6,000 gallons of fuel oil, and with its contents was uninjured.
The granite blocks on which the engines and drivers rested were badly scaled and cracked by
the heat, and in some places entirely destroyed. The portions of the cables in use that were
in the engine-room were ruined, and on the street were burned off in five different places.
The prospect of ever repairing and getting this machinery and appliances in operation again
seemed impossible. It was, however, restored, and started up August 1, 1906.

At this time, about 8 A. M. Friday, I saw by the smoke that three large fires were burning
at North Beach, in the direction of the Union-Street engine-house, from my house.

I afterwards walked down into the business part of the city. The streets in many places were
filled with debris--in some places on Kearny and Montgomery streets to the depth of four feet
in the middle of the street and much greater depth on the sidewalk. The track and slot rail
of the California Street R. R. were badly bent and twisted in many places. The pavement in
numberless places was cracked and scaled. A very few people were to be seen at that time among
the ruins, which added much to the general gloom of the situation. I found it then, and ever
since, very difficult to locate myself when wandering in the ruins and in the rebuilt district,
as all the old landmarks are gone and the only guide often is a prominent ruin in the distance.
As there were no cars running in the burnt district, I found my automobile very useful although
the rough streets filled with all manner of debris, punctured the tires too frequently.

The water supply in our house was gone, as was also the gas and electric light. The only light
we could use was candle-light, and that only until 9 P. M.. The city authorities issued an
order that no fires could be built in any house until the chimneys were fully rebuilt and inspected
by an officer. The water we used was brought by my son in a wash-boiler in his automobile.
He got it out near the Park. People all cooked in improvised kitchens made in the street. As
we were prohibited from making fires in the house, I improvised a kitchen on the street. I
found some pieces of board which were blown into the street and partially covered with brick
and stone, from St. Luke's Church and with some portieres from the house constructed a rude
shelter, and put a laundry stove in it, so we could make coffee, stew, and fry after a fashion.
Some people set up a cooking stove, many set up two rows of bricks, with a piece of sheet iron
laid across. Our door-bell was rung several evenings, and we were ordered to "put out that light."

About noon on the 20th the blocks between Pacific and Filbert were on fire at Jones Street,
and the fire was again threatening Van Ness Avenue, but several engines were pumping, from
one to another, saltwater from Black Point and had a stream on the west side of Van Ness until
it was saved.

While the fire was threatening, I went up to my daughter's (Mrs. Oxnard's) and told the servants
to get things ready to take out. I would go back home, and if it crossed Van Ness I would return,
but if I did not return in fifteen minutes they might consider the danger over. It did not
cross. While this pumping was going on, and when the fire had approached the east side of Van
Ness Avenue, one of the engines in the line suddenly stopped. This was a critical moment, but
the firemen were equal to the emergency, and they uncoupled the engine which was playing on
the houses, and remembering that the earthquake had disrupted and choked up the sewer, thereby
damming up the outlet, and in fact creating a cistern, they put the suction down the manhole
and continued playing on the fire, and saved the buildings on the north side. I tried to get
the names of the foreman and men who had the presence of mind and cool judgment, but was unable
to do so. This ended the conflagration; but for three nights after there were fires from smouldering
timbers and slow-burning debris, sufficient to light up my room so that I could see to read.
I was still in fear of a fire breaking out in the unburnt district west of Van Ness Avenue,
and as there was no water in the pipes we would be as helpless as ever. This gave much anxiety
during the two weeks following the calamity.

When night came on the evening of the 19th, the parks and the Presidio were filled with frightened
people, old and young. Thousands left their homes in the (which afterwards proved to be) unburned
district, and sought shelter, as stated, in the parks and streets in the open air. Mr. and
Mrs. Dr. J. W. Keeney and family left their home at 2222 Clay Street, and remained on Lafayette
Square in the open air for two days and nights, with hundreds of others, who feared another
earthquake and the conflagration.

The afternoon after the fire had exhausted itself, the atmosphere was hot, the great beds of
coals gave out heat and glowed brightly at night. The more I saw of this desolation, the worse
it looked. I barricaded my windows the best I could with mattresses and rugs, as the wind was
a little chilly. They stayed that way for about two weeks. The front of my house was blistered
and blackened by the intense heat. The paint melted in a peculiar way, and over two of the
windows it hung like drapery. This morning (Saturday, the 21st) a man with a policeman came
to the door and demanded blankets, cover-lids, pillows, and mattresses. I gave all I could
spare, and some draperies besides. They insisted on taking the rugs from the floor, and I had
much difficulty in making them see that rugs were not what they needed. The telegraph and telephone
wires made a network on every street, and for more than two weeks I carried in my pocket a
pair of wire cutters, which I had often occasion to use. During the week following the fire,
I found many water-pipes leaking, and I went around with a hammer and wooden plugs and stopped
them, in hope to raise the water sufficient to have a supply in my house. I think I succeeded.
This morning (Saturday) I was hungry, with nothing in my house to eat. I found a fireman on
the street who gave me one of two boxes of sardines which he had, and a stranger gave me soda
crackers, so I had a pretty fair breakfast under the circumstances.

Bread we were able to buy after a few days. On May 3d we were able to buy the staple articles
of food. Up to that time we obtained what we needed from the Relief Committee, such as canned
meats, potatoes, coffee, crackers, etc.

The city being under military rule, on May 4th I obtained the following orders:

San Francisco, May 4, 1906. To All Civic and Military Authorities:

Permit the bearer, Mr. J. B. Stetson, to visit the premises, 123 California, and get safe.

J. F. Dinan, Chief of Police. May  4, 1906.

Permit Mr. Stetson, No. 123 California Street, to open safe and remove contents.

J. M. Stafford, Major 20th Infantry, U. S. A.

So, with this permit, authority or protection, or whatever it may be called, I found my safe
in the ruins and everything in it that was inflammable burned to a coal; one of the twenty-dollar
gold pieces before mentioned was saved.

During the afternoon of the 18th and until 3 o'clock P. M. of the 19th the scraping sound of
dragging trunks on the sidewalks was continual. All sorts of methods for conveying valuables
were resorted to,--chairs on casters, baby carriages, wheelbarrows,--but the trunk-dragging
was the most common. It was almost impossible to get a wagon of any kind. The object of the
people was to get to the vacant lots at North Beach and to the Presidio grounds.

Shortly after the calamity the most absurd stories were in circulation. It was stated that
a man came out of the wreck of the Palace Hotel with his pockets filled with human fingers
and ears taken from the dead inmates for the rings and earrings. As no one was injured in the
hotel, it was wholly imaginative. A man near the Park met another who related the shocking
occurrence of two men having been hanged on a tree in sight, and not a long way off; the man
hastened to the spot and found no crowd, nor men hanging.

My son was engaged with his automobile all the forenoon in work connected with the temporary
hospital at the Mechanics' Pavilion. At about 11 A. M. it was found necessary to remove the
patients, which was finished by noon. When the last one was taken out, he went in and made
a search, and found that all had been taken away. Still the report was believed by many that
a hundred or more perished there by the fire.

A few personal experiences have come to me, and as I can verify them, I have here inserted them.

One of our men who roomed near the engine-house on California Street, packed his trunk and
dragged it downstairs, and started along the street for a place of safety until he came to
a pile of brick, when he stopped and had just time to lay the brick all around it and run away.
The next day as soon as the heat would permit, he went for his trunk and found it slightly
roasted, but the contents uninjured.

A lady who does not wish her name mentioned relates a very interesting and thrilling story
of her earthquake experience. She says she had permitted her servant to go away for the night,
and at five o'clock she remembered that the milkcan had not been placed out as usual, so at
that hour she concluded to get up and do it herself. She did so and before she could return
to her bed, the shock came and the chimney was thrown over, falling on the roof and crashed
through that and the ceiling of the chamber and on to the bed, which she had left only a few
minutes before.

Alfred Boles, roadmaster of the California Street Cable R. R. Co., was working on the cables
all of the previous night, and up to about 4:30 on the morning of the 18th. Therefore, that
night at their home in the Richmond District, the daughter slept with her mother. The earthquake
shook the chimney down, which fell through the roof and ceiling of her room, and covered the
bed with brick and mortar. Had she been in it she certainly would have been killed.

