It was late, and the meal was not over before bed-time, when Albinia lingered to find remedies
for Gilbert's toothache, pleased to feel herself making a commencement of motherly care, and
to meet an affectionate glance of thanks from Mr. Kendal's eye.  Gilbert, too, thanked her
with less shyness than before, and was hopeful about the remedy; and with the feeling of having
made a beginning, she ran down to tell Mr. Kendal that she thought he had hardly done justice
to the children--they were fine creatures--something so sweet and winning about Lucy--she liked
Gilbert's countenance--Sophy must have something deep and noble in her.

He lifted his head to look at her bright face, and said, 'They are very much obliged to you.'

'You must not say that, they are my own.'

'I will not say it again, but as I look at you, and the home to which I have brought you, I
feel that I have acted selfishly.'

Albinia timidly pressed his hand, 'Work was always what I wished,' she said, 'if only I could
do anything to lighten your grief and care.'

He gave a deep, heavy sigh.  Albinia felt that if he had hoped to have lessened the sadness,
he had surely found it again at his own door.  He roused himself, however, to say, 'This is
using you ill, Albinia; no one is more sensible of it than I am.'

'I never sought more than you can give,' she murmured; 'I only wish to do what I can for you,
and you will not let me disturb you.'

'I am very grateful to you,' was his answer; a sad welcome for a bride.  'And these poor children
will owe everything to you.'

'I wish I may do right by them,' said Albinia, fervently.

'The flower of the flock'--began Mr. Kendal, but he broke off at once.

Albinia had told Winifred that she could bear to have his wife's memory first with him, and
that she knew that she could not compensate to him for his loss, but the actual sight of his
dejection came on her with a chill, and she had to call up all her energies and hopes, and,
still better, the thought of strength not her own, to enable her to look cheerfully on the
prospect.  Sleep revived her elastic spirits, and with eager curiosity she drew up her blind
in the morning, for the first view of her new home.

But there was a veil--moisture made the panes resemble ground glass, and when she had rubbed
that away, and secured a clear corner, her range of vision was not much more extensive.  She
could only see the grey outline of trees and shrubs, obscured by the heavy mist; and on the
lawn below, a thick cloud that seemed to hang over a dark space which she suspected to be a
large pond.

'There is very little to be gained by looking out here!' Albinia soliloquized.  'It is not
doing the place justice to study it on a misty, moisty morning.  It looks now as if that fever
might have come bodily out of the pond.  I'll have no more to say to it till the sun has licked
up the fog, and made it bright!  Sunday morning--my last Sunday without school-teaching I hope!
I famish to begin again--and I will make time for that, and the girls too!  I am glad he consents
to my doing whatever I please in that way!  I hope Mr. Dusautoy will! I wish Edmund knew him
better--but oh! what a shy man it is!'

With a light step she went down-stairs, and found Mr Kendal waiting for her in the dining-room,
his face brightening as she entered.

'I am sorry Bayford should wear this heavy cloud to receive you,' he said.

'It will soon clear,' she answered, cheerfully.  'Have you heard of poor Gilbert this morning?'

'Not yet.'  Then, after a pause, 'I have generally gone to Mrs. Meadows after the morning service,'
he said, speaking with constraint.

'You will take me?' said Albinia.  'I wish it, I assure you.'

It was evidently what he wished her to propose, and he added, 'She must never feel herself
neglected, and it will be better at once.'

'So much more cordial,' said Albinia.  'Pray let us go!'

They were interrupted by the voices of the girls--not unpleasing voices, but loud and unsubdued,
and with a slight tone of provincialism, which seemed to hurt Mr. Kendal's ears, for he said,
'I hope you will tune those voices to something less unlike your own.'

As he spoke, the sisters appeared in the full and conscious rustling of new lilac silk dresses,
which seemed to have happily carried off all Sophy's sullenness, for she made much more brisk
and civil answers, and ran across the room in a boisterous manner, when her father sent her
to see whether Gilbert were up.

There was a great clatter, and Gilbert chased her in, breathless and scolding, but the tongues
were hushed before papa, and no more was heard than that the tooth was better, and had not
kept him awake. Lucy seemed disposed to make conversation, overwhelming Albinia with needless
repetitions of 'Mamma dear,' and plunging into what Mrs. Bowles and Miss Goldsmith had said
of Mr. Dusautoy, and how he kept so few servants, and the butcher had no orders last time he
called. Aunt Maria thought he starved and tyrannized over that poor little sickly Mrs. Dusautoy.

Mr. Kendal said not one word, and seemed not to hear.  Albinia felt as if she had fallen into
a whirlpool of gossip; she looked towards him, and hoped to let the conversation drop, but
Sophy answered her sister, and, at last, when it came to something about what Jane heard from
Mrs. Osborn's Susan, Albinia gently whispered, 'I do not think this entertains your papa, my
dear,' and silence sank upon them all.

Albinia's next venture was to ask about that which had been her Sunday pleasure from childhood,
and she turned to Sophy, and said, 'I suppose you have not begun to teach at the school yet!'

Sophy's great eyes expanded, and Lucy said, 'Oh dear mamma! nobody does that but Genevieve
Durant and the monitors.  Miss Wolte did till Mr. Dusautoy came, but she does not approve of him.'

'Lucy, you do not know what you are saying,' said Mr. Kendal, and again there was an annihilating
silence, which Albinia did not attempt to disturb.

At church time, she met the young ladies in the hall, in pink bonnets and sea-green mantillas
over the lilac silks, all evidently put on for the first time in her honour, an honour of which
she felt herself the less deserving, as, sensible that this was no case for bridal display,
she wore a quiet dark silk, a Cashmere shawl, and plain straw bonnet, trimmed with white.

With manifest wish for reciprocity, Lucy fell into transports over the shawl, but gaining nothing
by this, Sophy asked if she did not like the mantillas?  Albinia could only make civility compatible
with truth by saying that the colour was pretty, but where was Gilbert? He was on a stool before
the dining-room fire, looking piteous, and pronouncing his tooth far too bad for going to church,
and she had just time for a fresh administration of camphor before Mr. Kendal came forth from
his study, and gave her his arm.

The front door opened on a narrow sweep, the river cutting it off from the road, and crossed
by two wooden bridges, beside each of which stood a weeping-willow, budding with fresh spring
foliage. Opposite were houses of various pretentious, and sheer behind them rose the steep
hill, with the church nearly at the summit, the noble spire tapering high above, and the bells
ringing out a cheerful chime.  The mist had drawn up, and all was fresh and clear.

'There go Lizzie and Loo!' cried Lucy, 'and the Admiral and Mrs. Osborn.  I'll run and tell
them papa is come home.'

Sophy was setting off also, but Mr. Kendal stopped them, and lingered a moment or two, making
an excuse of looking for a needless umbrella, but in fact to avoid the general gaze.  As if
making a desperate plunge, however, and looking up and down the broad street, so as to be secure
that no acquaintance was near, he emerged with Albinia from the gate, and crossed the road
as the chime of the bells changed.

'We are late,' he said.  'You will prefer the speediest way, though it is somewhat steep.'

The most private way, Albinia understood, and could also perceive that the girls would have
liked the street which sloped up the hill, and thought the lilac and green insulted by being
conducted up the steep, irregular, and not very clean bye-lane that led directly up the ascent,
between houses, some meanly modern, some picturesquely ancient, with stone steps outside to
the upper story, but all with far too much of pig-stye about them for beauty or fragrance.
Lucy held up her skirts, and daintily picked her way, and Albinia looked with kindly eyes at
the doors and windows, secretly wondering what friends she should find there.

The lane ended in a long flight of more than a hundred shallow steps cut out in the soft stone
of the hill, with landing-places here and there, whence views were seen of the rich meadow-landscape
beyond, with villages, orchards, and farms, and the blue winding river Baye in the midst, woods
rising on the opposite side under the soft haze of distance.  On the other side, the wall of
rock was bordered by gardens, with streamers of ivy or periwinkle here and there hanging down.

The ascent ended in an old-fashioned stone stile; and here Sophy, standing on the step, proclaimed,
with unnecessary loudness, that Mr. Dusautoy was carrying Mrs. Dusautoy across the churchyard.
This had the effect of making a pause, but Albinia saw the rector, a tall, powerful man, rather
supporting than actually carrying, a little fragile form to the low-browed door leading into
the chancel on the north side.  The church was handsome, though in the late style, and a good
deal misused by eighteenth-century taste; and Albinia was full of admiration as Mr. Kendal
conducted her along the flagged path.

She was rather dismayed to find herself mounting the gallery stairs, and to emerge into a well-cushioned
abode, with the shield-bearing angel of the corbel of an arch all to herself, and a very good
view of the cobwebs over Mr. Dusautoy's sounding-board.  It seemed to suit all parties, however,
for Lucy and Sophia took possession of the forefront, and their father had the inmost corner,
where certainly nobody could see him.

Just opposite to Albinia was a mural tablet, on which she read what revealed to her more of
the sorrows of her household than she had guessed before:

     'To the memory of Lucy, the beloved wife of Edmund Kendal.
           Died February 18th, 1845, aged 35 years.

      Edmund Meadows Kendal, born January 20th, 1834.
           Died February 10th, 1845.

      Maria Kendal, born September 5th, 1840.
           Died September 14th, 1840.

      Sarah Anne Kendal, born October 3rd, 1841.
           Died November 20th, 1843.

      John Augustus Kendal, born January 4th, 1842.
           Died July 6th, 1842.

      Anne Maria Kendal, born June 12th, 1844.
           Died June 19th, 1844.'

Then followed, in the original Greek, the words, 'Because I live, ye shall live also.'

Four infants! how many hopes laid here!  All the English-born children of the family had died
in their cradles, and not only did compassion for the past affect Albinia, as she thought of
her husband's world of hidden grief, but a shudder for the future came over her, as she remembered
having read that such mortality is a test of the healthiness of a locality.  What could she
think of Willow Lawn?  It was with a strong effort that she brought her attention back to Him
Who controlleth the sickness that destroyeth at noon-day.

But Mr. Dusautoy's deep, powerful intonations roused her wandering thoughts, and she was calmed
and reassured by the holy Feast, in which she joined with her husband.

Mr. Kendal's fine face was calm and placid, as best she loved to look upon it, when they came
out of church, and she was too happy to disturb the quiet by one word.  Lively and animated
as she was, there was a sort of repose and enjoyment in the species of respect exacted by his
grave silent demeanour.

If this could only have lasted longer! but he was taking her along an irregular street, and
too soon she saw a slight colour flit across his cheek, and his eyebrows contract, as he unlatched
a green door in a high wall, and entered a little flagged court, decorated by a stand destined
for flowers.

Albinia caught the blush, and felt more bashful than she had believed was in her nature, but
she had a warm-hearted determination that she would work down prejudices, and like and be liked
by all that concerned him and his children.  So she smiled at him, and went bravely on into
the matted hall and up the narrow stairs, and made a laughing sign when he looked back at her
ere he tapped at the sitting-room door.

It was opened from within before he could turn the handle, and a shrill voice, exaggerating
those of the girls, showered welcomes with such rapidity, that Albinia was seated at the table,
and had been helped to cold chicken, before she could look round, or make much answer to reiterations
of 'so very kind.'

It was a small room, loaded with knicknacks and cushions, like a repository of every species
of female ornamental handiwork in vogue for the last half century, and the luncheon-tray in
the middle of all, ready for six people, for the two girls were there, and though Mr. Kendal
stood up by the fire, and would not eat, he and his black image, reflected backwards and forwards
in the looking-glass and in the little round mirror, seemed to take up more room than if he
had been seated.

Mrs. Meadows was slight, shrunken, and gentle-looking, with a sweet tone in her voice, great
softness of manner, and pretty blue eyes. Albinia only wished that she had worn mourning, it
would have been so much more becoming than bright colours, but that was soon overlooked in
gratitude for her affectionate reception, and in the warmth of feeling excited by her evident
fondness and solicitude for Mr. Kendal.

Miss Meadows was gaily dressed in youthful fashion, such as evidently had set her off to advantage
when she had been a bright, dark, handsome girl; but her hair was thin, her cheeks haggard,
the colour hardened, and her forty years apparent, above all, in an uncomfortable furrow on
the brow and round the mouth; her voice had a sharp distressed tone that grated even in her
lowest key, and though she did not stammer, she could never finish a sentence, but made half-a-dozen
disjointed commencements whenever she spoke.  Albinia pitied her, and thought her nervous,
for she was painfully assiduous in waiting on every one, scarcely sitting down for a minute
before she was sure that pepper, or pickle, or new bread, or stale bread, or something was
wanted, and squeezing round the table to help some one, or to ring the bell every third minute,
and all in a dress that had a teasing stiff silken rustle.  She offered Mr. Kendal everything
in the shape of food, till he purchased peace by submitting to take a hard biscuit, while Albinia
was not allowed her glass of water till all manner of wines, foreign and domestic, had been
tried upon her in vain.

Conversation was not easy.  Gilbert was inquired after, and his aunt spoke in her shrill, injured
note, as she declared that she had done her utmost to persuade him to have the tooth extracted,
and began a history of what the dentist ought to have done five years ago.

His grandmother softly pitied him, saying poor little Gibbie was such a delicate boy, and required
such careful treatment; and when Albinia hoped that he was outgrowing his ill-health, she was
amused to find that desponding compassion would have been more pleasing.

There had been a transaction about a servant in her behalf: and Miss Meadows insisted on hunting
up a note, searching all about the room, and making her mother and Sophy move from the front
of two table-drawers, a disturbance which Sophy did not take with such placid looks as did
her grandmother.

The name of the maid was Eweretta Dobson, at which there was a general exclamation.

'I wonder what is the history of the name,' said Albinia; 'it sounds like nothing but the diminutive
of ewer.  I hope she will not be the little pitcher with long ears.'

Mr. Kendal looked as much amused as he ever did, but no one else gave the least token of so
much as knowing what she meant, and she felt as if she had been making a foolish attempt at wit.

'You need not call her so,' was all that Mrs. Meadows said.

'I do not like calling servants by anything but their true names,' answered Albinia; 'it does
not seem to me treating them with proper respect to change their names, as if we thought them
too good for them.  It is using them like slaves.

Lucy exclaimed, 'Why! grandmamma's Betty is really named Philadelphia.'

Albinia laughed, but was disconcerted by finding that she had really given annoyance.  'I beg
your pardon,' she said.  'It is only a fancy of my own.  I am afraid that I have many fancies
for my friends to bear with.  You see I have so fine a name of my own, that I have a fellow-feeling
for those under the same affliction; and I believe some servants like an alias rather than
be teased for their finery, so I shall give Miss Eweretta her choice between that and her surname.

The old lady looked good-natured, and that matter blew over; but Miss Meadows fell into another
complication of pros and cons about writing for the woman's character, looking miserably harassed
whether she should write, or Mrs. Kendal, before she had been called upon.

Albinia supposed that Mrs. Wolfe might call in the course of the week; but this Miss Meadows
did not know, and she embarked in so many half speeches, and looked so mysterious and significant
at her mother, that Albinia began to suspect that some dreadful truth was behind.

'Perhaps,' said the old lady, 'perhaps Mrs. Kendal might make it understood through you, my
dear Maria, that she is ready to receive visits.'

'I suppose they must be!' said Albinia.

'You see, my dear, people would be most happy, but they do not know whether you have arrived.
You have not appeared at church, as I may say.'

'Indeed,' said Albinia, much diverted by her new discoveries in the realms of etiquette, 'I
was rather in a cupboard, I must allow. Ought we to have sailed up the aisle in state in the
Grandison pattern?  Are you ready?' and she glanced up at her husband, but he only half heard.

'No,' said Miss Meadows, fretfully; 'but you have not appeared as a bride.  The straw bonnet--you
see people cannot tell whether you are not incog, as yet--'

To refrain from laughing was impossible.  'My tarn cap,' she exclaimed; 'I am invisible in
it!  What shall I do?  I fear I shall never be producible, for indeed it is my very best, my
veritable wedding-bonnet!'

Lucy looked as if she thought it not worth while to be married for no better a bonnet than that.

'Absurdity!' said Mr. Kendal.

If he would but have given a good hearty laugh, thought Albinia, what a consolation it would
be! but she considered herself to have had a lesson against laughing in that house, and was
very glad when he proposed going home.  He took a kind, affectionate leave of the old lady,
who again looked fondly in big face, and rejoiced in his having recovered his looks.

As they arrived at home, Lucy announced that she was just going to speak to Lizzie Osborn,
and Sophy ran after her to a house of about the same degree as their own, but dignified as
Mount Lodge, because it stood on the hill side of the street, while Mr. Kendal's house was
for more gentility called 'Willow Lawn.'  Gilbert was not to be found; but at four o'clock
the whole party met at dinner, before the evening service.

Gilbert could eat little, and on going back to the fire to roast his cheek instead of going
to church, was told by his father, 'I cannot have this going on.  You must go to Mr. Bowles
directly after breakfast to-morrow, have the tooth drawn, and then go on to Mr. Salsted's.

The tone was one that admitted of no rebellion.  If Mr. Kendal interfered little, his authority
was absolute where he did interfere, and Albinia could only speak a few kind words of encouragement,
but the boy was vexed and moody, seemed half asleep when they came home, and went to bed as
soon as tea was over.

Sophy went to bed too, Mr. Kendal went to his study, and Albinia, after this day of novelty
and excitement, drew her chair to the fire, and as Lucy was hanging wearily about, called her
to her side, and made her talk, believing that there was more use in studying the girl's character
than even in suggesting some occupation, though that was apparently the great want of the whole
family on Sunday.

Lucy's first confidence was that Gilbert had not been out alone, but with that Archibald Tritton.
Mr. Tritton had a great farm, and was a sort of gentleman, and Gilbert was always after that
Archy.  She thought it 'very undesirable,' and Aunt Maria had talked to him about it, but he
never listened to Aunt Maria.

Albinia privately thought that it must be a severe penance to listen to Aunt Maria, and took
Gilbert's part.  She supposed that he must be very solitary; it must be a melancholy thing
to be a twin left alone.

'And Edmund, dear Edmund, was always so kind and so fond of Gilbert!' said Lucy.  'You would
not have thought they were twins, Edmund was so much the tallest and strongest.  It seemed
so odd that Gilbert should have got over it, when he did not.  Should you like to hear all
about it, mamma?'

It was Albinia's great wish to lift that dark veil, and Lucy began, with as much seriousness
and sadness as could co-exist with the satisfaction and importance of having to give such a
narration, and exciting emotion and pity.  It was remarkable how she managed to make herself
the heroine of the story, though she had been sent out of the house, and had escaped the infection.
She spoke in phrases that showed that she had so often told the story as to have a set form,
caught from her elders, but still it had a deep and intrinsic interest for the bride, that
made her sit gazing into the fire, pressing Lucy's hand, and now and then sighing and shuddering
slightly as she heard how there had been a bad fever prevailing in that lower part of the town,
and how the two boys were both unwell one damp, hot autumn morning, and Lucy dwelt on the escape
it had been that she had not kissed them before going to school.  Sophy had sickened the same
day, and after the tedious three weeks, when father and mother were spent with attendance on
the three, Edmund, after long delirium, had suddenly sunk, just as they had hopes of him; and
the same message that told Lucy of her brother's death, told her of the severe illness of both
parents.

The disease had done the work rapidly on the mother's exhausted frame, and she was buried a
week after her boy.  Lucy had seen the procession from the window, and thought it necessary
to tell how she had cried.

Mr. Kendal's had been a long illness; the first knowledge of his loss had caused a relapse,
and his recovery had long been doubtful.  As soon as the children were able to move, they were
sent with Miss Meadows to Ramsgate, and Lucy had joined them there.

'The day before I went, I saw papa,' she said.  'I had gone home for some things that I was
to take, and his room door was open, so he saw me on the stairs, and called me, for there was
no fear of infection then.  Oh, he was so changed! his hair all cut off, and his cheeks hollow,
and he was quite trembling, as he lay back on pillows in the great arm-chair.  You can't think
what a shock it was to me to see him in such a state.  He held out his arms, and I flung mine
round his neck, and sobbed and cried.  And he just said, so faintly, "Take her away, Maria,
I cannot bear it."  I assure you I was quite hysterical.'

'You must have wished for more self-command,' said Albinia, disturbed by Lucy's evident pleasure
in having made a scene.

'Oh, but it was such a shock, and such a thing to see the house all empty and forlorn, with
the windows open, and everything so still! Miss Belmarche cried too, and said she did not wonder
my feelings overcame me, and she did not see papa.'

'Ah! Lucy,' said Albinia, fervently, 'how we must try to make him happy after all that he has
gone through!'

'That is what grandmamma said when she got his letter.  "I would be glad of anything," she
said, "that would bring back a smile to him." And Aunt Maria said she had done her best for
him, but he must consult his own happiness; and so I say.  When people talk to me, I say that
papa is quite at liberty to consult his own happiness.'

'Thank you.'

Lucy did not understand the tone, and went on patronizing.  'And if they say you look younger
than they expected, I don't object to that at all.  I had rather you were not as old as Aunt
Maria, or Miss Belmarche.'

'Who thinks me so young?'

'Oh!  Aunt Maria, and grandmamma, and Mrs. Osborn, and all; but I don't mind that, it is only
Sophy who says you look like a girl. Aunt Maria says Sophy has an unmanageable temper.'

'Don't you think you can let me find that out for myself?'

'I thought you wanted me to tell you about everybody.'

'Ah! but tell me of the good in your brother and sister.'

'I don't know how,' said Lucy.  'Gilbert is so tiresome, and so is Sophy.  I heard Mary telling
Jane, "I'm sure the new missus will have a heavy handful of those two."'

'And what of yourself?' said Albinia.

'Oh! I don't know,' said Lucy, modestly.

Mr. Kendal came in, and as Albinia looked at his pensive brow, she was oppressed by the thought
of his sufferings in that dreary convalescence.  At night, when she looked from her window,
the fog hung white, like mildew over the pond, and she could not reason herself out of a spectral
haunting fancy that sickness lurked in the heavy, misty atmosphere.  She dreamt of it and the
four babies, started, awoke, and had to recall all her higher trust to enable her vigour to
chase off the oppressive imagination.

CHAPTER III.

Fog greeted Mrs. Kendal's eyes as she rose, and she resolved to make an attack on the pond
without loss of time.  But Mr. Kendal was absorbed nearly all breakfast-time in a letter from
India, containing a scrap in some uncouth character.  As he finished his last cup of tea, he
looked up and said, 'A letter from my old friend Penrose, of Bombay--an inscription in the
Salsette caves.'

'Have you seen the Salsette caves?

'Yes.'

She was longing to hear about them, but his horse was announced.

'You said you would be engaged in the morning while I ride out, Albinia?' he said, 'I shall
return before luncheon.  Gilbert, you had better go at once to Mr. Bowles.  I shall order your
pony to be ready when you come back.'

