Again the Vicar drove to the Bald-faced Stag, and again he walked along the road and over the
common. He offered his arm to the old woman, but she wouldn't accept it; nor would she upon
any entreaty allow him to carry her bundle. She assured him that his doing so would make her
utterly wretched, and at last he gave up the point. She declared that she suffered nothing
from fatigue, and that her two miles' walk would not be more than her Sunday journey to church
and back. But as she drew near to the house she became uneasy, and once asked to be allowed
to pause for a moment. "May be, then," said she, "after all, my girl'd rather that I wouldn't
trouble her." He took her by the arm and led her along, and comforted her,--assuring her that
if she would take her child in her arms Carry would for the moment be in a heaven of happiness.
"Take her into my arms, Mr. Fenwick? Why,--isn't she in my very heart of hearts at this moment?
And I won't say not a word sharp to her;--not now, Mr. Fenwick. And why would I say sharp words
at all? I suppose she understands it all."

"I think she does, Mrs. Brattle."

They had now reached the door, and the Vicar knocked. No answer came at once; but such had
been the case when he knocked before. He had learned to understand that in such a household
it might not be wise to admit all comers without consideration. So he knocked again,--and then
again. But still there came no answer. Then he tried the door, and found that it was locked.
"May be she's seen me coming," said the mother, "and now she won't let me in." The Vicar then
went round the cottage, and found that the back door also was closed. Then he looked in at
one of the front windows, and became aware that no one was sitting, at least in the kitchen.
There was an upstairs room, but of that the window was closed.

"I begin to fear," he said, "that neither of them is at home."

At this moment he heard the voice of a woman calling to him from the door of the nearest cottage,--one
of the two brick tenements which stood together,--and from her he learned that Mrs. Burrows
had gone into Devizes, and would not probably be home till the evening. Then he asked after
Carry, not mentioning her name, but speaking of her as the young woman who lived with Mrs.
Burrows. "Her young man come and took her up to Lon'on o' Saturday," said the woman.

Fenwick heard the words, but Mrs. Brattle did not hear them. It did not occur to him not to
believe the woman's statement, and all his hopes about the poor creature were at once dashed
to the ground. His first feeling was no doubt one of resentment, that she had broken her word
to him. She had said that she would not go within a month without letting him know that she
was going; and there is no fault, no vice, that strikes any of us so strongly as falsehood
or injustice against ourselves. And then the nature of the statement was so terrible! She had
gone back into utter degradation and iniquity. And who was the young man? As far as he could
obtain a clue, through the information which had reached him from various sources, this young
man must be the companion of the Grinder in the murder and robbery of Mr. Trumbull. "She has
gone away, Mrs. Brattle," said he, with as sad a voice as ever a man used.

"And where be she gone to, Mr. Fenwick? Cannot I go arter her?" He simply shook his head and
took her by the arm to lead her away. "Do they know nothing of her, Mr. Fenwick?"

"She has gone away; probably to London. We must think no more about her, Mrs. Brattle--at any
rate for the present. I can only say that I am very, very sorry that I brought you here."

The drive back to Bullhampton was very silent and very sad. Mrs. Brattle had before her the
difficulty of explaining her journey to her husband, together with the feeling that the difficulty
had been incurred altogether for nothing. As for Fenwick, he was angry with himself for his
own past enthusiasm about the girl. After all, Mr. Chamberlaine had shown himself to be the
wiser man of the two. He had declared it to be no good to take up special cases, and the Vicar
as he drove himself home notified to himself his assent with the Prebendary's doctrine. The
girl had gone off the moment she had ascertained that her friends were aware of her presence
and situation. What to her had been the kindness of her clerical friend, or the stories brought
to her from her early home, or the dirt and squalor of the life which she was leading? The
moment that there was a question of bringing her back to the decencies of the world, she escaped
from her friends and hurried back to the pollution which, no doubt, had charms for her. He
had allowed himself to think that in spite of her impurity, she might again be almost pure,
and this was his reward! He deposited the poor woman at the spot at which he had taken her
up, almost without a word, and then drove himself home with a heavy heart. "I believe it will
be best to be like her father, and never to name her again," said he to his wife.

"But what has she done, Frank?"

"Gone back to the life which I suppose she likes best. Let us say no more about it,--at any
rate for the present. I'm sick at heart when I think of it."

Mrs. Brattle, when she got over the stile close to her own home, saw her husband standing at
the mill door. Her heart sank within her, if that could be said to sink which was already so
low. He did not move, but stood there with his eyes fixed upon her. She had hoped that she
might get into the house unobserved by him, and learn from Fanny what had taken place; but
she felt so like a culprit that she hardly dared to enter the door. Would it not be best to
go to him at once, and ask his pardon for what she had done? When he spoke to her, which he
did at last, his voice was a relief to her. "Where hast been, Maggie?" he asked. She went up
to him, put her hand on the lappet of his coat and shook her head. "Best go in and sit easy,
and hear what God sends," he said. "What's the use of scouring about the country here and there?"

"There has been no use in it to-day, feyther," she said.

"There arn't no use in it,--not never," he said; and after that there was no more about it.
She went into the house and handed the bundle to Fanny, and sat down on the bed and cried.
On the following morning Frank Fenwick received the following letter:--

   London, Sunday.

   HONOURED SIR,

   I told you that I would write if it came as I was going
   away, but I've been forced to go without writing. There
   was nothing to write with at the cottage. Mrs. Burrows
   and me had words, and I thought as she would rob me, and
   perhaps worse. She is a bad woman, and I could stand it no
   longer, so I just come up here, as there was nowhere else
   for me to find a place to lie down in. I thought I'd just
   write and tell you, because of my word; but I know it
   isn't no use.

   I'd send my respects and love to father and mother, if I
   dared. I did think of going over; but I know he'd kill me,
   and so he ought. I'd send my respects to Mrs. Fenwick,
   only that I isn't fit to name her;--and my love to sister
   Fanny. I've come away here, and must just wait till I die.

   Yours humbly, and most unfortunate,

   CARRY.

   If it's any good to be sorry, nobody can be more sorry
   than me, and nobody more unhappy. I did try to pray when
   you was gone, but it only made me more ashamed. If there
   was only anywhere to go to, I'd go.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE BULL AT LORING.

Gilmore had told his friend that he would do two things,--that he would start off and travel
for four or five years, and that he would pay a visit to Loring. Fenwick had advised him to
do neither, but to stay at home and dig and say his prayers. But in such emergencies no man
takes his friend's advice; and when Mr. Chamberlaine had left him, Gilmore had made up his
mind that he would at any rate go to Loring. He went to church on the Sunday morning, and was
half resolved to tell Mrs. Fenwick of his purpose; but chance delayed her in the church, and
he sauntered away home without having mentioned it. He let half the next week pass by without
stirring beyond his own ground. During those three days he changed his mind half a dozen times;
but at last, on the Thursday, he had his portmanteau packed and started on his journey. As
he was preparing to leave the house he wrote one line to Fenwick in pencil. "I am this moment
off to Loring.--H. G." This he left in the village as he drove through to the Westbury station.

He had formed no idea in his own mind of any definite purpose in going. He did not know what
he should do or what say when he got to Loring. He had told himself a hundred times that any
persecution of the girl on his part would be mean and unworthy of him. And he was also aware
that no condition in which a man could place himself was more open to contempt than that of
a whining, pining, unsuccessful lover. A man is bound to take a woman's decision against him,
bear it as he may, and say as little against it as possible. He is bound to do so when he is
convinced that a woman's decision is final; and there can be no stronger proof of such finality
than the fact that she has declared a preference for some other man. All this Gilmore knew,
but he would not divest himself of the idea that there might still be some turn in the wheel
of fortune. He had heard a vague rumour that Captain Marrable, his rival, was a very dangerous
man. His uncle was quite sure that the Captain's father was thoroughly bad, and had thrown
out hints against the son, which Gilmore in his anxiety magnified till he felt convinced that
the girl whom he loved with all his heart was going to throw herself into the arms of a thorough
scamp. Could he not do something, if not for his own sake, then for hers? Might it not be possible
for him to deliver her from her danger? What, if he should discover some great iniquity;--would
she not then in her gratitude be softened towards him? It was on the cards that this reprobate
was married already, and was about to commit bigamy. It was quite probable that such a man
should be deeply in debt. As for the fortune that had been left to him, Mr. Chamberlaine had
already ascertained that that amounted to nothing. It had been consumed to the last shilling
in paying the joint debts of the father and son. Men such as Mr. Chamberlaine have sources
of information which are marvellous to the minds of those who are more secluded, and not the
less marvellous because the information is invariably false. Gilmore in this way almost came
to a conviction that Mary Lowther was about to sacrifice herself to a man utterly unworthy
of her, and he taught himself, not to think,--but to believe it to be possible that he might
save her. Those who knew him would have said that he was the last man in the world to be carried
away by a romantic notion;--but he had his own idea of romance as plainly developed in his
mind as was ever the case with a knight of old, who went forth for the relief of a distressed
damsel. If he could do anything towards saving her, he would do it, or try to do it, though
he should be brought to ruin in the attempt. Might it not be that at last he would have the
reward which other knights always attained? The chance in his favour was doubtless small, but
the world was nothing to him without this chance.

He had never been at Loring before, but he had learned the way. He went to Chippenham and Swindon,
and then by the train to Loring. He had no very definite plan formed for himself. He rather
thought that he would call at Miss Marrable's house,--call if possible when Mary Lowther was
not there,--and learn from the elder lady something of the facts of the case. He had been well
aware for many weeks past, from early days in the summer, that old Miss Marrable had been in
favour of his claim. He had heard too that there had been family quarrels among the Marrables,
and a word had been dropped in his hearing by Mrs. Fenwick, which had implied that Miss Marrable
was by no means pleased with the match which her niece Mary Lowther was proposing to herself.
Everything seemed to show that Captain Marrable was a most undesirable person.

When he reached the station at Loring it was incumbent on him to go somewhither at once. He
must provide for himself for the night. He found two omnibuses at the station, and two inn
servants competing with great ardour for his carpet bag. There were the Dragon and the Bull
fighting for him. The Bull in the Lowtown was commercial and prosperous. The Dragon at Uphill
was aristocratic, devoted to county purposes, and rather hard set to keep its jaws open and
its tail flying. Prosperity is always becoming more prosperous, and the allurements of the
Bull prevailed. "Are you a going to rob the gent of his walise?" said the indignant Boots of
the Bull as he rescued Mr. Gilmore's property from the hands of his natural enemy, as soon
as he had secured the entrance of Mr. Gilmore into his own vehicle. Had Mr. Gilmore known that
the Dragon was next door but one to Miss Marrable's house, and that the Bull was nearly equally
contiguous to that in which Captain Marrable was residing, his choice probably would not have
been altered. In such cases, the knight who is to be the deliverer desires above all things
that he may be near to his enemy.

He was shown up to a bedroom, and then ushered into the commercial room of the house. Loring,
though it does a very pretty trade as a small town, and now has for some years been regarded
as a thriving place in its degree, is not of such importance in the way of business as to support
a commercial inn of the first class. At such houses the commercial room is as much closed against
the uninitiated as is a first-class club in London. In such rooms a non-commercial man would
be almost as much astray as is a non-broker in Capel Court, or an attorney in a bar mess-room.
At the Bull things were a little mixed. The very fact that the words "Commercial Room" were
painted on the door proved to those who understood such matters that there was a doubt in the
case. They had no coffee room at the Bull, and strangers who came that way were of necessity
shown into that in which the gentlemen of the road were wont to relax themselves. Certain commercial
laws are maintained in such apartments. Cigars are not allowed before nine o'clock, except
upon some distinct arrangement with the waiter. There is not, as a rule, a regular daily commercial
repast; but when three or more gentlemen dine together at five o'clock, the dinner becomes
a commercial dinner, and the commercial laws as to wine, &c., are enforced, with more or less
restriction as circumstances may seem to demand. At the present time there was but one occupant
of the chamber to greet Mr. Gilmore when he entered, and this greeting was made with all the
full honours of commercial courtesy. The commercial gentleman is of his nature gregarious,
and although he be exclusive to a strong degree, more so probably than almost any other man
in regard to the sacred hour of dinner, when in the full glory of his confraternity, he will
condescend, when the circumstances of his profession have separated him from his professional
brethren, to be festive with almost any gentleman whom chance may throw in his way. Mr. Cockey
had been alone for a whole day when Gilmore arrived, having reached Loring just twenty-four
hours in advance of our friend, and was contemplating the sadly diminished joys of a second
solitary dinner at the Bull, when fortune threw this stranger in his way. The waiter, looking
at the matter in a somewhat similar light, and aware that a combined meal would be for the
advantage of all parties, very soon assisted Mr. Cockey in making his arrangements for the
evening. Mr. Gilmore would no doubt want to dine. Dinner would be served at five o'clock. Mr.
Cockey was going to dine, and Mr. Gilmore, the waiter thought, would probably be glad to join
him. Mr. Cockey expressed himself as delighted, and would only be too happy. Now men in love,
let their case be ever so bad, must dine or die. So much no doubt is not admitted by the chroniclers
of the old knights who went forth after their ladies; but the old chroniclers, if they soared
somewhat higher than do those of the present day, are admitted to have been on the whole less
circumstantially truthful. Our knight was very sad at heart, and would have done according
to his prowess as much as any Orlando of them all for the lady whom he loved,--but nevertheless
he was an hungered; the mention of dinner was pleasant to him, and he accepted the joint courtesies
of Mr. Cockey and the waiter with gratitude.

The codfish and beefsteak, though somewhat woolly and tough, were wholesome; and the pint of
sherry which at Mr. Cockey's suggestion was supplied to them, if not of itself wholesome, was
innocent by reason of its dimensions. Mr. Cockey himself was pleasant and communicative, and
told Mr. Gilmore a good deal about Loring. Our friend was afraid to ask any leading questions
as to the persons in the place who interested himself, feeling conscious that his own subject
was one which would not bear touch from a rough hand. He did at last venture to make inquiry
about the clergyman of the parish. Mr. Cockey, with some merriment at his own wit, declared
that the church was a house of business at which he did not often call for orders. Though he
had been coming to Loring now for four years, he had never heard anything of the clergyman;
but the waiter no doubt would tell them. Gilmore rather hesitated, and protested that he cared
little for the matter; but the waiter was called in and questioned, and was soon full of stories
about old Mr. Marrable. He was a good sort of man in his way, the waiter thought, but not much
of a preacher. The people liked him because he never interfered with them. "He don't go poking
his nose into people's 'ouses like some of 'em," said the waiter, who then began to tell of
the pertinacity in that respect of a younger clergyman at Uphill. Yes; Parson Marrable had
a relation living at Uphill; an old lady. "No; not his grandmother." This was in answer to
a joke on the part of Mr. Cockey. Nor yet a daughter. The waiter thought she was some kind
of a cousin, though he did not know what kind. A very grand lady was Miss Marrable, according
to his showing, and much thought of by the quality. There was a young lady living with her,
though the waiter did not know the young lady's name.

"Does the Rev. Mr. Marrable live alone?" asked Gilmore. "Well, yes; for the most part quite
alone. But just at present he had a visitor." Then the waiter told all that he knew about the
Captain. The most material part of this was that the Captain had returned from London that
very evening;--had come in by the Express while the two "gents" were at dinner, and had been
taken to the Lowtown parsonage by the Bull 'bus. "Quite the gentleman," was the Captain, according
to the waiter, and one of the "handsomest gents as ever he'd set his eyes upon." "D---- him,"
said poor Harry Gilmore to himself. Then he ventured upon another question. Did the waiter
know anything of Captain Marrable's father? The waiter only knew that the Captain's father
was "a military gent, and was high up in the army." From all which the only information which
Gilmore received was the fact that the match between Marrable and Mary Lowther had not as yet
become the talk of the town. After dinner Mr. Cockey proposed a glass of toddy and a cigar,
remarking that he would move a bill for dispensing with the smoking rule for that night only,
and to this also Gilmore assented. Now that he was at Loring he did not know what to do with
himself better than drinking toddy with Mr. Cockey. Mr. Cockey declared the bill to be carried
nem. con., and the cigars and toddy were produced. Mr. Cockey remarked that he had heard of
Sir Gregory Marrable, of Dunripple Park. He travelled in Warwickshire, and was in the habit,
as he said, of fishing up little facts. Sir Gregory wasn't much of a man, according to his
account. The estate was small and, as Mr. Cockey fancied, a little out at elbows. Mr. Cockey
thought it all very well to be a country gentleman and a "barrow knight," as he called it,
as long as you had an estate to follow; but he thought very little of a title without plenty
of stuff. Commerce, according to his notions, was the back bone of the nation;--and that the
corps of travelling commercial gentlemen was the back bone of trade, every child knew. Mr.
Cockey became warm and friendly as he drank his toddy. "Now, I don't know what you are, sir,"
said he.

"I'm not very much of anything," said Gilmore.

"Perhaps not, sir. Let that be as it may. But a man, sir, that feels that he's one of the supports
of the commercial supremacy of this nation ain't got much reason to be ashamed of himself."

"Not on that account, certainly."

"Nor yet on no other account, as long as he's true to his employers. Now you talk of country
gentlemen."

"I didn't talk of them," said Gilmore.

"Well,--no,--you didn't; but they do, you know. What does a country gentleman know, and what
does he do? What's the country the better of him? He 'unts, and he shoots, and he goes to bed
with his skin full of wine, and then he gets up and he 'unts and he shoots again, and 'as his
skin full once more. That's about all."

"Sometimes he's a magistrate."

"Yes, justices' justice! we know all about that. Put an old man in prison for a week because
he looks into his 'ay-field on a Sunday; or send a young one to the treadmill for two months
because he knocks over a 'are! All them cases ought to be tried in the towns, and there should
be beaks paid as there is in London. I don't see the good of a country gentleman. Buying and
selling;--that's what the world has to go by."

"They buy and sell land."

"No; they don't. They buy a bit now and then when they're screws, and they sell a bit now and
then when the eating and drinking has gone too fast. But as for capital and investment, they
know nothing about it. After all, they ain't getting above two-and-a-half per cent. for their
money. We all know what that must come to."

Mr. Cockey had been so mild before the pint of sherry and the glass of toddy, that Mr. Gilmore
was somewhat dismayed by the change. Mr. Cockey, however, in his altered aspect seemed to be
so much the less gracious, that Gilmore left him and strolled out into the town. He climbed
up the hill and walked round the church and looked up at the windows of Miss Marrable's house,
of which he had learned the site; but he had no adventure, saw nothing that interested him,
and at half-past nine took himself wearily to bed.

That same day Captain Marrable had run down from London to Loring laden with terrible news.
The money on which he had counted was all gone! "What do you mean?" said his uncle; "have the
lawyers been deceiving you all through?"

