"Vildy, you're a good woman!" cried Samantha, when the door closed on the Reverend Mr. Southwick.
"I'm proud o' you, Vildy, 'n' I take back all the hard thoughts I've ben hevin' about you lately.
The idee o' that chiny-eyed preacher thinkin' he was goin' to carry that child home in his
buggy with hardly so much as sayin' 'Thank you, marm!' I like his Baptist imperdence! His wife
hed better wash his duster afore she adopts any children. If they'd carry their theories 'bout
immersion 's fur as their close, 't wouldn't be no harm."

"I don' know as I'd have agreed to keep either of 'em ef the whole village hadn't intefered
and wanted to manage my business for me, and be so dretful charitable all of a sudden, and
dictate to me and try to show me my duty. I haven't had a minute's peace for more 'n a fortnight,
and now I hope they'll let me alone. I'll take the boy to the city to-morrow, if I live to
see the light, and when I come back I'll tie up the gate and keep the neighbors out till this
nine days' wonder gets crowded out o' their heads by somethin' new."

"You're goin' to take Timothy to the city, are you?" asked Samantha sharply.

"That's what I'm goin' to do; and the sooner the better for everybody concerned. Timothy, shut
that door and run out to the barn, and don't you let me see you again till supper-time; do
you hear me?"

"And you're goin' to put him in one o' them Homes?"

"Yes, I am. You see for yourself we can't find any place fer him hereabouts."

"Well, I've ben waitin' for days to see what you was goin' to do, and now I'll tell you what
I'm goin' to do, if you'd like to know. I'm goin' to keep Timothy myself; to have and to hold
from this time forth and for evermore, as the Bible says. That's what I'm goin' to do!"

Miss Cummins gasped with astonishment.

"I mean what I say, Vildy. I ain't so well off as some, but I ain't a pauper, not by no means.
I've ben layin' by a little every year for twenty years, 'n' you know well enough what for;
but that's all over for ever and ever, amen, thanks be! And I ain't got chick nor child, nor
blood relation in the world, and if I choose to take somebody to do for, why, it's nobody's
affairs but my own."

"You can't do it, and you sha'n't do it!" said Miss Vilda excitedly. "You ain't goin' to make
a fool of yourself, if I can help it. We can't have two children clutterin' up this place and
eatin' us out of house and home, and that's the end of it."

"It ain't the end of it, Vildy Cummins, not by no manner o' means! If we can't keep both of
'em, do you know what I think 'bout it? I think we'd ought to give away the one that everybody
wants and keep the other that nobody does want, more fools they! That's religion, accordin'
to my way o' thinkin'. I love the baby, dear knows; but see here. Who planned this thing all
out? Timothy. Who took that baby up in his own arms and fetched her out o' that den o' thieves?
Timothy. Who stood all the resk of gittin' that innocent lamb out o' that sink of iniquity,
and hed wit enough to bring her to a place where she could grow up respectable? Timothy. And
do you ketch him say in' a word 'bout himself from fust to last? Not by no manner o' means.
That ain't Timothy. And what doos the lovin' gen'rous, faithful little soul git? He gits his
labor for his pains. He hears folks say right to his face that nobody wants him and everybody
wants Gay. And if he didn't have a disposition like a cherubim-an-seraphim (and better, too,
for they 'continually do cry,' now I come to think of it), he'd be sour and bitter, 'stid o'
bein' good as an angel in a picture-book from sun-up to sun-down!"

Miss Vilda was crushed by the overpowering weight of this argument, and did not even try to
stem the resistless tide of Samantha's eloquence.

"And now folks is all of a high to take in the baby for a spell, jest for a plaything, because
her hair curls, 'n' she's handsome, 'n' light complected, 'n' cunning, 'n' a girl (whatever
that amounts to is more 'n I know!), and that blessed boy is tread under foot as if he warn't
no better 'n an angleworm! And do you mean to tell me you don't see the Lord's hand in this
hull bus'ness, Vildy Cummins? There's other kinds o' meracles besides buddin' rods 'n' burnin'
bushes 'n' loaves 'n' fishes. What do you s'pose guided that boy to pass all the other houses
in this village 'n' turn in at the White Farm? Don't you s'pose he was led? Well, I don't need
a Bible nor yit a concordance to tell me he was. He didn't know there was plenty 'n' to spare
inside this gate; a great, empty house 'n' full cellar, 'n' hay 'n' stock in the barn, and
cowpons in the bank, 'n' two lone, mis'able women inside, with nothin' to do but keep flies
out in summer-time, 'n' pile wood on in winter-time, till they got so withered up 'n' gnarly
they warn't hardly wuth getherin' int' the everlastin' harvest! He didn't know it, I say, but
the Lord did; 'n' the Lord's intention was to give us a chance to make our callin' 'n' election
sure, 'n' we can't do that by turnin' our backs on His messenger, and puttin' of him ou'doors!
The Lord intended them children should stay together or He wouldn't 'a' started 'em out that
way; now that's as plain as the nose on my face, 'n' that's consid'able plain as I've ben told
afore now, 'n' can see for myself in the glass without any help from anybody, thanks be!"

"Everybody 'll laugh at us for a couple o' soft-hearted fools," said Miss Vilda feebly, after
a long pause. "We'll be a spectacle for the whole village."

"What if we be? Let's be a spectacle, then!" said Samantha stoutly. "We'll be a spectacle for
the angels as well as the village, when you come to that! When they look down 'n' see us gittin'
outside this dooryard 'n' doin' one o' the Lord's chores for the first time in ten or fifteen
years, I guess they'll be consid'able excited! But there's no use in talkin', I've made up
my mind, Vildy. We've lived together for thirty years 'n' ain't hardly hed an ugly word ('n'
dretful dull it hez ben for both of us!), 'n' I sha'n't live nowheres else without you tell
me to go; but I've got lots o' good work in me yit, 'n' I'm goin' to take that boy up 'n' give
him a chance, 'n' let him stay alongside o' the thing he loves best in the world. And if there
ain't room for all of us in the fourteen rooms o' this part o' the house, Timothy 'n' I can
live in the L, as you've allers intended I should if I got married. And I guess this is 'bout
as near to gittin' married as either of us ever 'll git now, 'n' consid'able nearer 'n I've
expected to git, lately. And I'll tell Timothy this very night, when he goes to bed, for he's
grievin' himself into a fit o' sickness, as anybody can tell that's got a glass eye in their
heads!"

SCENE XIV.

A Point of Honor.

It was almost dusk, and Jabe Slocum was struggling with the nightly problem of getting the
cow from the pasture without any expenditure of personal effort. Timothy was nowhere to be
found, or he would go and be glad to do the trifling service for his kind friend without other
remuneration than a cordial "Thank you." Failing Timothy there was always Billy Pennell, who
would not go for a "Thank you," being a boy of a sordid and miserly manner of thought, but
who would go for a cent and chalk the cent up, which made it a more reasonable charge than
would appear to the casual observer. So Jabe lighted his corn-cob pipe, and extended himself
under a willow-tree beside the pond, singing in a cheerful fashion,--

  "'Tremblin' sinner, calm your fears!
  Jesus is always ready.
  Cease your sin and dry your tears,
  Jesus is always ready!'"

"And dretful lucky for you He is!" muttered Samantha, who had come to look for Timothy. "Jabe!
Jabe! Has Timothy gone for the cow?"

"Dunno. Jest what I was goin' to ask you when I got roun' to it."

"Well, how are you goin' to find out?"

"Find out by seein' the cow if he hez gone, an' by not seein' no cow if he hain't. I'm comf'table
either way it turns out. One o' them writin' fellers that was up here summerin' said, 'They
also serve who'd ruther stan' 'n' wait' 'd be a good motto for me, 'n' he's about right when
I've ben hayin'. Look down there at the shiners, ain't they cool? Gorry! I wish I was a fish!"

"If you was you wouldn't wear your fins out, that's certain!"

"Come now, Samanthy, don't be hard on a feller after his day's work. Want me to git up 'n'
blow the horn for the boy?"

"No, thank you," answered Samantha cuttingly. "I wouldn't ask you to spend your precious breath
for fear you'd be too lazy to draw it in agin. When I want to get anything done I can gen'ally
spunk up sprawl enough to do it myself, thanks be!"

"Wall now, Samanthy, you cheat the men-folks out of a heap o' pleasure bein' so all-fired independent,
did ye know it?

  "'Tremblin' sinner, calm your fears!
  Jesus is always ready.'"

"When 'd you see him last?"

"I hain't seen him sence 'bout noon-time. Warn't he into supper?"

"No. We thought he was off with you. Well, I guess he's gone for the cow, but I should think
he'd be hungry. It's kind o' queer."

Miss Vilda was seated at the open window in the kitchen, and Lady Gay was enthroned in her
lap, sleepy, affectionate, tractable, adorable.

"How would you like to live here at the White Farm, deary?" asked Miss Vilda.

"O, yet. I yike to live here if Timfy doin' to live here too. I yike oo, I yike Samfy, I yike
Dabe, I yike white tat 'n' white tow 'n' white bossy 'n' my boofely desses 'n' my boofely dolly
'n' er day hen 'n' I yikes evelybuddy!"

"But you'd stay here like a nice little girl if Timothy had to go away, wouldn't you?"

"No, I won't tay like nite ittle dirl if Timfy do 'way. If Timfy do 'way, I do too. I's Timfy's
dirl."

"But you're too little to go away with Timothy."

"Ven I ky an keam an kick an hold my bwef--I s'ow you how!"

"No, you needn't show me how," said Vilda hastily. "Who do you love best, deary, Samanthy or me?"

"I yuv Timfy bet. Lemme twy rit-man-poor-man-bedder-man-fief on your buckalins, pease."

"Then you'll stay here and be my little girl, will you?"

"Yet, I tay here an' be Timfy's ittle dirl. Now oo p'ay by your own seff ittle while, Mit Vildy,
pease, coz I dot to det down an find Samfy an' put my dolly to bed coz she's defful seepy."

"It's half past eight," said Samantha coming into the kitchen, "and Timothy ain't nowheres
to be found, and Jabe hain't seen him sence noon-time."

"You needn't be scared for fear you've lost your bargain," remarked Miss Vilda sarcastically.
"There ain't so many places open to the boy that he'll turn his back on this one, I guess!"

Yet, though the days of chivalry were over, that was precisely what Timothy Jessup had done.

Wilkins's Wood was a quiet stretch of timber land that lay along the banks of Pleasant River;
and though the natives (for the most part) never noticed but that it was paved with asphalt
and roofed in with oilcloth, yet it was, nevertheless, the most tranquil bit of loveliness
in all the country round. For there the river twisted and turned and sparkled in the sun, and
"bent itself in graceful courtesies of farewell" to the hills it was leaving; and kissed the
velvet meadows that stooped to drink from its brimming cup; and lapped the trees gently, as
they hung over its crystal mirrors the better to see their own fresh beauty. And here it wound
"about and in and out," laughing in the morning sunlight, to think of the tiny streamlet out
of which it grew; paling and shimmering at evening when it held the stars and moonbeams in
its bosom; and trembling in the night wind to think of the great unknown sea into whose arms
it was hurrying.

Here was a quiet pool where the rushes bent to the breeze and the quail dipped her wing; and
there a winding path where the cattle came down to the edge, and having looked upon the scene
and found it all very good, dipped their sleek heads to drink and drink and drink of the river's
nectar. Here the first pink mayflowers pushed their sweet heads through the reluctant earth,
and waxen Indian pipes grew in the moist places, and yellow violets hid themselves beneath
their modest leaves.

And here sat Timothy, with all his heart in his eyes, bidding good-by to all this soft and
tender loveliness. And there, by his side, faithful unto death (but very much in hopes of something
better), sat Rags, and thought it a fine enough prospect, but one that could be beaten at all
points by a bit of shed-view he knew of,--a superincumbent hash-pan, an empty milk-dish, and
an emaciated white cat flying round a corner! The remembrance of these past joys brought the
tears to his eyes, but he forbore to let them flow lest he should add to the griefs of his
little master, which, for aught he knew, might be as heavy as his own.

Timothy was comporting himself, at this trying crisis, neither as a hero nor as a martyr. There
is no need of exaggerating his virtues. Enough to say, not that he was a hero, but that he
had in him the stuff out of which heroes are made. Win his heart and fire his imagination,
and there is no splendid deed of which the little hero would not have been capable. But that
he knew precisely what he was leaving behind, or what he was going forth to meet, would be
saying too much. One thing he did know: that Miss Vilda had said distinctly that two was one
too many, and that he was the objectionable unit referred to. And in addition to this he had
more than once heard that very day that nobody in Pleasant River wanted him, but that there
would be plenty of homes open to Gay if he were safely out of the way. A little allusion to
a Home, which he caught when he was just bringing in a four-leafed clover to show to Samantha,
completed the stock of ideas from which he reasoned. He was very clear on one point, and that
was that he would never be taken alive and put in a Home with a capital H. He respected Homes,
he approved of them, for other boys, but personally they were unpleasant to him, and he had
no intention of dwelling in one if he could help it. The situation did not appear utterly hopeless
in his eyes. He had his original dollar and eighty-five cents in money; Rags and he had supped
like kings off wild blackberries and hard gingerbread; and, more than all, he was young and
mercifully blind to all but the immediate present. Yet even in taking the most commonplace
possible view of his character it would be folly to affirm that he was anything but unhappy.
His soul was not sustained by the consciousness of having done a self-forgetting and manly
act, for he was not old enough to have such a consciousness, which is something the good God
gives us a little later on, to help us over some of the hard places.

"Nobody wants me! Nobody wants me!" he sighed, as he lay down under the trees. "Nobody ever
did want me,--I wonder why! And everybody loves my darling Gay and wants to keep her, and I
don't wonder about that. But, oh, if I only belonged to somebody! (Cuddle up close, little
Ragsy; we've got nobody but just each other, and you can put your head into the other pocket
that hasn't got the gingerbread in it, if you please!) If I only was like that little butcher's
boy that he lets ride on the seat with him, and hold the reins when he takes meat into the
houses,--or if I only was that freckled-face boy with the straw hat that lives on the way to
the store! His mother keeps coming out to the gate on purpose to kiss him. Or if I was even
Billy Pennell! He's had three mothers and two fathers in three years, Jabe says. Jabe likes
me, I think, but he can't have me live at his house, because his mother is the kind that needs
plenty of room, he says,--and Samanthy has no house. But I did what I tried to do. I got away
from Minerva Court and found a lovely place for Gay to live, with two mothers instead of one;
and maybe they'll tell her about me when she grows bigger, and then she'll know I didn't want
to run away from her, but whether they tell her or not, she's only a little baby, and boys
must always take care of girls; that's what my dream-mother whispers to me in the night,--and
that's ... what ... I'm always ..."

Come! gentle sleep, and take this friendless little knight-errant in thy kind arms! Bear him
across the rainbow bridge, and lull him to rest with the soft plash of waves and sighing of
branches! Cover him with thy mantle of dreams, sweet goddess, and give him in sleep what he
hath never had in waking!

Meanwhile, a more dramatic scene was being enacted at the White Farm. It was nine o'clock,
and Samantha had gone from pond to garden, shed to barn, and gate to dairy, a dozen times,
but there was no sign of Timothy. Gay had refused to be undressed till "Timfy" appeared on
the premises, but had fallen asleep in spite of the most valiant resolution, and was borne
upstairs by Samantha, who made her ready for bed without waking her.

As she picked up the heap of clothes to lay them neatly on a chair, a bit of folded paper fell
from the bosom of the little dress. She glanced at it, turned it over and over, read it quite
through. Then, after retiring behind her apron a moment, she went swiftly downstairs to the
dining-room where Miss Avilda and Jabe were sitting.

"There!" she exclaimed, with a triumphant sob, as she laid the paper down in front of the astonished
couple. "That's a letter from Timothy. He's run away, 'n' I don't blame him a mite 'n' I hope
folks 'll be satisfied now they've got red of the blessed angel, 'n' turned him outdoors without
a roof to his head! Read it out, 'n' see what kind of a boy we've showed the door to!"

     Dere Miss vilder and sermanthy. i herd you say i cood not stay here
     enny longer and other peeple sed nobuddy wood have me and what you
     sed about the home but as i do not like homes i am going to run
     away if its all the same to you. Please give Jabe back his birds
     egs with my love and i am sorry i broak the humming-bird's one but
     it was a naxident. Pleas take good care of gay and i will come back
     and get her when I am ritch. I thank you very mutch for such a
     happy time and the white farm is the most butifull plase in the
     whole whirld. TIM.

     p. s. i wood not tell you if i was going to stay but billy penel
     thros stones at the white cow witch i fere will get into her milk
     so no more from TIM.

     i am sorry not to say good by but i am afrade on acount of the home
     so i put them here.

The paper fell from Miss Vilda's trembling fingers, and two salt tears dropped into the kissing
places.

"The Lord forgive me!" she said at length (and it was many a year since any one had seen her
so moved). "The Lord forgive me for a hard-hearted old woman, and give me a chance to make
it right. Not one reproachful word does he say to us about showin' partiality,--not one! And
my heart has kind of yearned over that boy from the first, but just because he had Marthy's
eyes he kept bringin' up the past to me, and I never looked at him without rememberin' how
hard and unforgivin' I'd ben to her, and thinkin' if I'd petted and humored her a little and
made life pleasanter, perhaps she'd never have gone away. And I've scrimped and saved and laid
up money till it comes hard to pay it out, and when I thought of bringin' up and schoolin'
two children I cal'lated I couldn't afford it; and yet I've got ten thousand dollars in the
bank and the best farm for miles around. Samanthy, you go fetch my bonnet and shawl,--Jabe,
you go and hitch up Maria, and we'll go after that boy and fetch him back if he's to be found
anywheres above ground! And if we come across any more o' the same family trampin' around the
country, we'll bring them along home while we're about it, and see if we can't get some sleep
and some comfort out o' life. And the Missionary Society can look somewheres else for money.
There's plenty o' folks that don't get good works set right down in their front yards for 'em
to do. I'll look out for the individyals for a spell, and let the other folks support the societies!"

SCENE XV.

Wilkins's Woods.

Samantha ran out to the barn to hold the lantern and see that Jabe didn't go to sleep while
he was harnessing Maria. But he seemed unusually "spry" for him, although he was conducting
himself in a somewhat strange and unusual manner. His loose figure shook from time to time,
as with severe chills; he seemed too weak to hold up the shafts, and so he finally dropped
them and hung round Maria's neck in a sort of mild, speechless convulsion.

"What under the canopy ails you, Jabe Slocum?" asked Samantha. "I s'pose it's one o' them everlastin'
old addled jokes o' yourn you're tryin' to hatch out, but it's a poor time to be jokin' now.
What's the matter with you?"

"'Ask me no questions 'n' I'll tell you no lies,' is an awful good motto," chuckled Jabe, with
a new explosion of mirth that stretched his mouth to an alarming extent. "Oh, there, I can't
hold in 'nother minute. I shall bust if I don' tell somebody! Set down on that nail kag, Samanthy,
'n' I'll let you hev a leetle slice o' this joke--if you'll keep it to yourself. You see I
know--'bout--whar--to look--for this here--runaway!"

"You hev n't got him stowed away anywheres, hev you? If you hev, it'll be the last joke you'll
play on Vildy Cummins, I can tell you that much, Jabe Slocum."

"No, I hain't stowed him away, but I can tell putty nigh whar he's stowed hisself away, and
I'm ready to die a-laffin' to see how it's all turned out jest as I suspicioned 't would. You
see, Samanthy Ann, I thought 'bout a week ago 't would be well enough to kind o' create a demand
for the young ones so 't they'd hev some kind of a market value, and so I got Elder Southwick
'n' Aunt Hitty kind o' started on that tack, 'n' it worked out slick as a whistle, tho' they
didn't know I was usin' of 'em as innercent instruments, and Aunt Hitty don't need much encouragement
to talk; it's a heap easier for her to drizzle 'n it is to hold up! Well, I've ben surmisin'
for a week that the boy meant to run away, and to-day I was dead sure of it; for he come to
me this afternoon, when I was restin' a spell on account o' the hot sun, and he was awful low-sperrited,
'n' he asked me every namable kind of a question you ever hearn tell of, and all so simple-minded
that I jest turned him inside out 'thout his knowin' what I was doin'. Well, when I found out
what he was up to I could 'a' stopped him then 'n' there, tho' I don' know 's I would anyhow,
for I shouldn't like livin' in a 'sylum any better 'n he doos; but thinks I to myself, thinks
I, I'd better let him run away, jest as he's a plannin',--and why? Cause it'll show what kind
o' stuff he's made of, and that he ain't no beggar layin' roun' whar he ain't wanted, but a
self-respectin' boy that's wuth lookin' after. And thinks I, Samanthy, 'n' I know the wuth
of him a'ready, but there's them that hain't waked up to it yit, namely, Miss Vildy Trypheny
Cummins; and as Miss Vildy Trypheny Cummins is that kind o' cattle that can't be drove, but
hez to be kind o' coaxed along, mebbe this runnin'-away bizness 'll be the thing that'll fetch
her roun' to our way o' thinkin'. Now I wouldn't deceive nobody for a farm down East with a
pig on it, but thinks I, there ain't no deceivin' 'bout this. He don' know I know he's goin'
to run away, so he's all square; and he never told me nothin' 'bout his plans, so I'm all square;
and Miss Vildy's good as eighteen-karat gold when she gets roun' to it, so she'll be all square;
and Samanthy's got her blinders on 'n' don't see nothin' to the right nor to the left, so she's
all square. And I ain't inteferin' with nobody. I'm jest lettin' things go the way they've
started, 'n' stan'in' to one side to see whar they'll fetch up, kind o' like Providence. I'm
leavin' Miss Vildy a free agent, but I'm shapin' circumstances so 's to give her a chance.
But, land! if I'd fixed up the thing to suit myself I couldn't 'a' managed it as Timothy hez,
'thout knowin' that he was managin' anything. Look at that letter bizness now! I couldn't 'a'
writ that letter better myself! And the sperrit o' the little feller, jest takin' his dorg
'n' lightin' out with nothin' but a perlite good-bye! Well I can't stop to talk no more 'bout
it now, or we won't ketch him, but we'll jest try Wilkins's Woods, Maria, 'n' see how that
goes. The river road leads to Edgewood 'n' Hillside, whar there's consid'able hayin' bein'
done, as I happened to mention to Timothy this afternoon; and plenty o' blackberries 'side
the road, 'specially after you pass the wood-pile on the left-hand side, whar there's a reg'lar
garding of 'em right 'side of an old hoss-blanket that's layin' there; one that I happened
to leave there one time when I was sleepin' ou'doors for my health, and that was this afternoon
'bout five o'clock, so I guess it hain't changed its location sence."

Jabe and Miss Vilda drove in silence along the river road that skirted Wilkins's Woods, a place
where Jabe had taken Timothy more than once, so he informed Miss Vilda, and a likely road for
him to travel if he were on his way to some of the near villages.

Poor Miss Vilda! Fifty years old, and in twenty summers and winters scarcely one lovely thought
had blossomed into lovelier deed and shed its sweetness over her arid and colorless life. And
now, under the magic spell of tender little hands and innocent lips, of luminous eyes that
looked wistfully into hers for a welcome, and the touch of a groping helplessness that fastened
upon her strength, the woman in her woke into life, and the beauty and fragrance of long-ago
summers came back again as in a dream.

After having driven three or four miles, they heard a melancholy sound in the distance; and
as they approached a huge wood-pile on the left side of the road, they saw a small woolly form
perched on a little rise of ground, howling most melodiously at the August moon, that hung
like a ball of red fire in the cloudless sky.

"That's a sign of death in the family, ain't it, Jabe?" whispered Miss Vilda faintly.

"So they say," he answered cheerfully; "but if 't is, I can 'count for it, bein' as how I fertilized
the pond lilies with a mess o' four white kittens this afternoon; and as Rags was with me when
I done it, he may know what he's bayin' 'bout,--if 't is Rags, 'n' it looks enough like him
to be him,--'n' it is him, by Jiminy, 'n' Timothy's sure to be somewheres near. I'll get out
'n' look roun' a little."

"You set right still, Jabe, I'll get out myself, for if I find that boy I've got something
to say to him that nobody can say for me."

