"I have to congratulate you," said he to Bertram, "and I do it with all my heart."

There was very little heart in the tone in which this was spoken; but then, what could be expected?

"Thank'ee, old fellow, I'm sure you do. Come, Wilkinson, give us your hand. It's better to
have it all out at once. I wish you'd had more luck, and there's an end of it. It's all luck,
you know."

"No, it's not," said Wilkinson, barely able to suppress the tears.

"Every bit of it. If a chap gets a headache, or a fit of the colic, it's all up with him. Or
if he happens to have been loose as to some pet point of the examiners, it's all up with him.
Or if he has taken a fad into his head, and had a pet point of his own, it's all up with him
then, too, generally. But it will never do, Wilkinson, to boody over these things. Come, let
you and I be seen walking together; you'll get over it best in that way. We'll go over to Parker's,
and I'll stand a lunch. We'll find Gerard, and Madden, and Twisleton there. Twisleton's so
disgusted at getting a fourth. He says he won't take it, and swears he'll make them let him
go out in the ruck."

"He's got as much as he thought he'd get, at any rate, and therefore he can't be unhappy."

"Unhappy! who's unhappy? Nonsense, my dear fellow. Shy all that to the dogs. Come, let's go
over to Parker's; we shall find Harcourt there. You know he's up, don't you?"

"No; and I had rather not meet him just at present."

"My dear fellow, you must get over that."

"That's all very well for you, who have got nothing to get over."

"And have I never had anything to get over? I'll tell you what it is; I've come here to prevent
you from moping, and I don't mean to leave you. So, you see, you may as well come with me at
first."

With some little hesitation, Wilkinson made his friend understand that he had not yet written
home, and that he could not go out till he had done so.

"Then I'll give you ten minutes to write your letter; it can't possibly take you more, not
even if you put into it my love to my aunt and cousins."

"I cannot do it while you are here."

"Nonsense! gammon! You shall do it while I'm here. I'll not allow you to make yourself a miserable
ass all for nothing. Come, write. If it's not written in ten minutes, I'll write it;" and so
saying, he took up a play of Aristophanes wherewith to amuse himself, by way of light reading,
after the heavy work of the week.

Poor Wilkinson again drew his chair to the table, but his heart was very heavy. Væ victis!

CHAPTER II.

BREAKFAST AND LUNCH.

Wilkinson took the pen in his hand and bent himself over the paper as though he were going
to write; but not an ink-mark fell upon the paper. How should he write it? The task might have
been comparatively light to him but for that dreadful debt. Bertram in the meantime tossed
over the pages of his book, looking every now and then at his watch; and then turning sharply
round, he exclaimed, "Well!"

"I wish you'd leave me," said Wilkinson; "I'd rather be alone."

"May I be doomed to live and die a don if I do; which style of life, next to that of an English
bishop, I look on as the most contemptible in the world. The Queen's royal beef-eaters come
next; but that, I think, I could endure, as their state of do-nothingness is not so absolute
a quantity. Come; how far have you got? Give me the paper, and I'll write you a letter in no time."

"Thank you; I'd rather write my own letter."

"That's just what I want you to do, but you won't;" and then again he turned for two minutes
to the "Frogs." "Well--you see you don't write. Come, we'll both have a try at it, and see
who'll have done first. I wonder whether my father is expecting a letter from me?" And, so
saying, he seized hold of pen and paper and began to write.

   My dearest Father,

   This weary affair is over at last. You will be sorry to
   hear that the event is not quite as well as it might have
   been as far as I am concerned. I had intended to be a
   first, and, lo! I am only a second. If my ambition had
   been confined to the second class, probably I might have
   come out a first. I am very sorry for it, chiefly for your
   sake; but in these days no man can count on the highest
   honours as a certainty. As I shall be home on Tuesday, I
   won't say any more. I can't give you any tidings about the
   fellowships yet. Bertram has had his old luck again. He
   sends his love to mamma and the girls.

   Your very affectionate son,

   ARTHUR WILKINSON.

"There, scribble that off; it will do just as well as anything else."

Poor Wilkinson took the paper, and having read it, to see that it contained no absurdity, mechanically
copied the writing. He merely added one phrase, to say that his friend's "better luck" consisted
in his being the only double-first of his year, and one short postscript, which he took good
care that Bertram should not see; and then he fastened his letter and sent it to the post.

"Tell mamma not to be very unhappy." That was the postscript which he added.

That letter was very anxiously expected at the vicarage of Hurst Staple. The father was prepared
to be proud of his successful son; and the mother, who had over and over again cautioned him
not to overwork himself, was anxious to know that his health was good. She had but little fear
as to his success; her fear was that he should come home thin, pale, and wan.

Just at breakfast-time the postman brought the letter, and the youngest girl running out on
to the gravel brought it up to her expectant father.

"It is from Arthur," said she; "isn't it, papa? I'm sure I know his handwriting."

The vicar, with a little nervousness, opened it, and in half a minute the mother knew that
all was not right.

"Is he ill?" said she; "do tell me at once."

"Ill! no; he's not ill."

"Well, what is it? He has not lost his degree?"

"He has not been plucked, papa, has he?" said Sophia.

"Oh, no; he has got his degree--a second in classics!--that's all;" and he threw the letter
over to his wife as he went on buttering his toast.

"He'll be home on Tuesday," said Mary, the eldest girl, looking over her mother's shoulder.

"And so George is a double-first," said Mrs. Wilkinson.

"Yes," said the vicar, with his mouth full of toast; not evincing any great satisfaction at
the success of his late pupil.

When the mother read the short postscript her heart was touched, and she put her handkerchief
up to her face.

"Poor Arthur! I am sure it has not been his own fault."

"Mamma, has George done better than Arthur?" said one of the younger girls. "George always
does do better, I think; doesn't he?"

"He has made himself too sure of it," said the father, in almost an angry tone. Not that he
was angry; he was vexed, rather, as he would be if his wheat crop failed, or his potatoes did
not come up properly.

But he felt no sympathy with his son. It never occurred to him to think of the agony with which
those few lines had been written; of the wretchedness of the young heart which had hoped so
much and failed so greatly; of the misery which the son felt in disappointing the father. He
was a good, kind parent, who spent his long days and longer nights in thinking of his family
and their welfare; he would, too, have greatly triumphed in the triumph of his son; but it
went beyond his power of heart to sympathize with him in his misery.

"Do not seem to be vexed with him when he comes home," said the mother.

"Vexed with him! you mean angry. Of course, I'm not angry. He has done his best, I suppose.
It's unlucky, that's all."

And then the breakfast was continued in silence.

"I don't know what he's to do," said the father, after awhile; "he'll have to take a curacy,
I suppose."

"I thought he meant to stop up at Oxford and take pupils," said Mary.

"I don't know that he can get pupils now. Besides, he'll not have a fellowship to help him."

"Won't he get a fellowship at all, papa?"

"Very probably not, I should think." And then the family finished their meal in silence.

It certainly is not pleasant to have one's hopes disappointed; but Mr. Wilkinson was hardly
just in allowing himself to be so extremely put about by his son's failure in getting the highest
honours. Did he remember what other fathers feel when their sons are plucked? or, did he reflect
that Arthur had, at any rate, done much better than nineteen out of every twenty young men
that go up to Oxford? But then Mr. Wilkinson had a double cause for grief. Had George Bertram
failed also, he might perhaps have borne it better.

As soon as the letter had been written and made up, Wilkinson suffered himself to be led out
of the room.

"And now for Parker's," said Bertram; "you will be glad to see Harcourt."

"Indeed, I shall not. Harcourt's all very well; but just at present, I would much rather see
nobody."

"Well, then, he'll be glad to see you; and that will be quite the same thing. Come along."

Mr. Harcourt was a young barrister but lately called to the bar, who had been at Oxford spending
his last year when Bertram and Wilkinson were freshmen; and having been at Bertram's college,
he had been intimate with both of them. He was now beginning to practise, and men said that
he was to rise in the world. In London he was still a very young man; but at Oxford he was
held to be one who, from his three years' life in town, had become well versed in the world's
ways. He was much in the habit of coming to Oxford, and when there usually spent a good deal
of his time with George Bertram.

And so Wilkinson walked forth into the street arm and arm with his cousin. It was a grievous
trial to him; but he had a feeling within him that the sooner the sorrow was encountered the
sooner it would be over. They turned into the High Street, and as they went they met crowds
of men who knew them both. Of course it was to be expected that Bertram's friends should congratulate
him. But this was not the worst; some of them were so ill advised as to condole with Wilkinson.

"Get it over at once," whispered Bertram to him, "and then it will be over, now and for ever."

And then they arrived at Parker's, and there found all those whom Bertram had named, and many
others. Mr. Parker was, it is believed, a pastrycook by trade; but he very commonly dabbled
in more piquant luxuries than jam tarts or Bath buns. Men who knew what was what, and who were
willing to pay--or to promise to pay--for their knowledge, were in the habit of breakfasting
there, and lunching. Now a breakfast or a lunch at Parker's generally meant champagne.

Harcourt was seated on the table when they got into the back room, and the other men were standing.

   "Sound the timbrels, beat the drums;
    See the conqu'ring hero comes,"

he sung out as Bertram entered the room. "Make way for the double-first--the hero of the age,
gentlemen! I am told that they mean to put up an alabaster statue to him in the Common Room
at Trinity. However, I will vote for nothing more expensive than marble."

"Make it in pie-crust," said Bertram, "and let Parker be the artist."

"Yes; and we'll celebrate the installation with champagne and paté de foie gras," said Twisleton.

"And afterwards devour the object of our idolatry, to show how short-lived is the fame for
which we work so hard," said Madden.

"I should be delighted at such tokens of your regard, gentlemen. Harcourt, you haven't seen
Wilkinson."

Harcourt turned round and shook hands warmly with his other friend. "Upon my word, I did not
see you, Master Wilkinson. You have such a habit of hiding yourself under a bushel that one
always misses you. Well; so the great day is over, and the great deed done. It's a bore out
of the way, trampled under foot and got rid of; that's my idea of a degree."

Wilkinson merely smiled; but Harcourt saw at once that he was a deeply-disappointed man. The
barrister, however, was too much a man of the world either to congratulate him or condole with him.

"There are fewer firsts this year than there have been for the last nine years," said Gerard,
thinking to soften the asperity of Wilkinson's position.

"That may be because the examiners required more, or because the men had less to give," said
Madden, forgetting all about Wilkinson.

"Why, what noodles you are," said Bertram, "not to know that it's all settled by chance at
roulette the night before the lists come down! If it's not, it ought to be. The average result
would be just as fair. Come, Harcourt, I know that you, with your Temple experiences, won't
drink Oxford wine; but your good nature will condescend to see the children feeding. Wilkinson,
sit opposite there and give Twisleton some of that pie that he was talking of." And so they
sat down to their banquet; and Harcourt, in spite of the refinement which London had doubtless
given to his taste, seemed perfectly able to appreciate the flavour of the University vintage.

"Gentlemen, silence for one moment," said Harcourt, when the graver work of eating began to
lull, and men torpidly peeled their pears, and then cut them up into shapes instead of eating
them. "It is always said at all the breakfasts I go to--"

"This is not a breakfast," said Bertram, "it's a lunch."

"Well, all the lunches, then; and God bless you. It's always said at these matutinal meals--which,
by-the-by, would be the nicest things in the world, only one doesn't know what on earth to
do when they're over."

"It's time to go to dinner then," said Twisleton.

"That may do for the 'dura ilia' of a freshman, but now that you're a B.A., you'll find that
that power fails you greatly. But, for heaven's sake, let me go on with my speech, or you'll
not get away either to dinner or to supper. It is commonly declared, I say, that there should
be no speaking at these delicious little morning repasts."

"Do you call that a little repast?" said Madden, who was lying back in his chair with a cigar
in his mouth, of which he hardly had strength enough left to puff out the smoke.

"I mean no offence to the feed, which, of its kind, has been only too good. If I'm to be allowed
to go on, I'll say, that this rule, which is always laid down, is always broken; and therefore
I feel no hesitation in breaking it on this occasion. A long speech is a long bore, and a little
speech is a little bore; but bores must be endured. We can't do very well without them. Now
my bore shall be a very short bore if I'm allowed to make an end of it without interruption."

"All right, Harcourt," said Bertram. "Go ahead; we're only too delighted to hear you. It isn't
every day we have a London barrister here."

"No; and it isn't every day that we have a double-first at old Trinity. Gentlemen, there are,
I think, five, six Trinity men here including myself. It will be a point of honour with you
to drink health and prosperity to our friend Bertram with all the honours. We have many men
of whom we can boast at Trinity; but if I have any insight into character, any power of judging
what a man will do"--it must be remembered that Mr. Harcourt, though a very young man in London,
was by no means a young man at Oxford--"there have been very few before him who have achieved
a higher place than will fall to his lot, or whose name will be more in men's mouths than his.
There are also here four gentlemen of other colleges; they will not, I am sure, begrudge us
our triumph; they are his old friends, and will be as proud of the Oxford man as we are of
the Trinity man. Gentlemen, here is prosperity to our friend the double-first, and health to
enjoy the fruits of his labour."

Whereupon the toast was drunk with a great deal of fervour. It was astonishing that ten men
should make so much uproar; even Wilkinson, whose heart the wine had just touched sufficiently
to raise it a little from the depth to which it had fallen--even he cheered; and Madden, overcoming
by degrees his not unnatural repugnance to rise, produced from certain vast depths a double-bass
hurrah.

"Bertram," said he, when the voices and glasses were once more silent, "you're a credit to
your college, and I've a regard for you; so I don't mind running the risk for once. But I must
beg that I may not be asked to repeat it."

Bertram of course returned thanks to his guests with all the mawkish modesty which usually
marks such speeches--or, rather, with modesty which would be mawkish were it not so completely
a matter of course. And then he sat down; and then, with a face rather heightened in colour,
he got upon his legs again.

"In spite of Madden's difficulty of utterance," said he, "and his very visible disinclination
to move--"

"I'm not going to do any more shouting," said Madden, "even though you propose the health of
the chancellor, vice-chancellor, and two members."

"Not even though he throws the proctor's into the bargain," said Twisleton.

"You may shout or not as you like; but at the risk of giving some temporary pain to as good
a friend as I have in the world, I will ask you to drink the health of one whom on this occasion
fortune has not favoured--I mean my cousin, Arthur Wilkinson. The lists as they come down are,
I dare say, made out with tolerable fairness. It is not at any rate for me to grumble at them.
But of this I am quite sure, that did there exist some infallible test for finding out the
best man, no man's name in this year would have been placed before his. He is not so jovial
as the rest of us now, because he has partly failed; but the time will come when he will not
fail." And then Arthur Wilkinson's health was toasted with a somewhat bated enthusiasm, but
still with sufficient éclat to make every glass in Mr. Parker's house ring on its shelf.

Poor Wilkinson's ears tingled when he heard his name pronounced; and he would at the moment
have given anything to be allowed to be quiet. But it may be doubted whether he would not have
been more hurt had he been left there without any notice. It is very hard to tune oneself aright
to a disappointed man. "I'll break the ice for him, at any rate," said Bertram to himself.
"When he's used to talk about it, he will suffer less."

Wilkinson had been accounted a good hand at speaking in the debating society, and though rather
more prolix than Bertram, and not quite so vivacious, had been considered almost more than
a match for his cousin on account of his superior erudition and more practised delivery; but
now his voluble gift of words deserted him. "He was much obliged to them," he said; "though
perhaps, on the whole, it was better that men who placed themselves in a mediocre condition
should be left to their mediocrity. He had no doubt himself of the justness of the lists. It
would be useless for him to say that he had not aspired; all the world"--it was all the world
to him--"knew too well that he had aspired. But he had received a lesson which might probably
be useful to him for the rest of his life. As for failing, or not failing, that depended on
the hopes which a man might form for himself. He trusted that his would henceforth be so moderate
in their nature as to admit of a probability of their being realized." Having uttered these
very lugubrious words, and almost succeeded in throwing a wet blanket over the party, he sat down.

"Now, you're not going to do anybody else, are you?" said Madden.

"Only Twisleton, and Gerard, and Hopgood," answered Bertram; "and Fortescue looks as if he
expected it. Perhaps, however, he'll let us off till the day after to-morrow."

And then, with a round of milk punch, another cigar apiece, and a little more chat, the party
broke up.

Bertram and Harcourt remained together, and Bertram endeavoured to induce Wilkinson to stay
with them. He, however, wished to be alone, and got home to his college by himself.

"You always overrated that man," said Harcourt.

"I think not; but time will show. After all, a good degree is not everything in the world.
Who in London cares about senior wranglers and double-firsts? When all is done, I don't see
the use of it."

"Nobody cares much about wranglers and double-firsts; but these are the men, nevertheless,
who get the best of what's going. Wood that will swim in one water will swim in all waters."

"You'll find Wilkinson will swim yet."

"That is, he won't sink. I don't say he will. Nine-tenths of the men in the world neither swim
nor sink; they just go along with their bows above the wave, but dreadfully water-logged, barely
able to carry the burdens thrown on them; but yet not absolutely sinking; fighting a hard fight
for little more than mere bread, and forgetting all other desires in their great desire to
get that. When such a man does get bread, he can't be said to sink."

"Ah! Wilkinson will do more than that."

"Something more, or something less, as the case may be. But, believe me, he is not the man
to make other men fall before him. Industry alone never does that, and certainly not that sort
of industry which breaks down once in every six months. But come, Mr. Parker's champagne makes
my head buzz: let us take a walk up the river; Twisleton's idea of going to dinner requires
far too much pluck for me."

And so they walked out along the towing-path, discussing many things of much importance to them.

   "There is a tide in the affairs of men
    Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune."

In nine cases out of ten, this flood-tide comes but once in life, and then in early years.
A man may have a second or a third chance for decent maintenance, but hardly a second chance
for fortune's brighter favours. The horse that is to win the race needs not make all his best
running at once; but he that starts badly will rarely do so. When a young man discusses what
shall be his future walk in life, he is talking of all that concerns his success as far as
this world is concerned. And it is so hard for a youth to know, to make even a fair guess,
as to what his own capacities are! The right man is wanted in the right place; but how is a
lad of two and twenty to surmise what place will be right for him? And yet, if he surmises
wrong, he fails in taking his tide at its single flood. How many lawyers are there who should
have been soldiers! how many clergymen who should have been lawyers! how many unsuccessful
doctors who might have done well on 'Change, or in Capel Court!

Bertram had an inkling of this; and Harcourt had more than an inkling. His path in life was
chosen, and he had much self-confidence that he had chosen it well. He had never doubted much,
and since he had once determined had never doubted at all. He had worked hard, and was prepared
to work hard; not trusting over much in his own talents, but trusting greatly in his own industry.
But Bertram, with double his friend's genius, had, at any rate as yet, but little of his friend's
stability. To him the world was all before him where to choose; but he was sadly in want of
something that should guide his choice. He had a high, but at the same time a vague ambition.
The law, the church, letters, art, and politics all enticed him; but he could not decide of
which mistress the blandishments were the sweetest.

"Well, when shall we have you up in London?" said Harcourt.

"In London! I don't know that I shall go to London. I shall go down to Hadley for a few weeks
of course"--Bertram's uncle lived at the village of that name, in the close vicinity of Barnet--"but
what I shall do then, I don't in the least know."

"But I know you'll come to London and begin to keep your terms."

"What, at the Middle Temple?"

"At some Temple or some Inn: of course you won't go where anybody else goes; so probably it
will be Gray's Inn."

"No, I shall probably do a much more commonplace thing; come back here and take orders."

"Take orders! You! You can no more swallow the thirty-nine articles than I can eat Twisleton's
dinner."

"A man never knows what he can do till he tries. A great deal of good may be done by a clergyman
if he be in earnest and not too much wedded to the Church of England. I should have no doubt
about it if the voluntary principle were in vogue."

"A voluntary fiddlestick!"

"Well, even a voluntary fiddlestick--if it be voluntary and well used."

"Of course you'll be a barrister. It is what you are cut out for, and what you always intended."

"It is the most alluring trade going, I own;--but then they are all such rogues. Of course
you will be an exception."

"I shall do at Rome as Romans do--I hope always. My doctrine is, that we have no immutable
law of right and wrong."

"A very comfortable code. I wish I could share it."

"Well, you will some of these days; indeed, you do now practically. But the subject is too
long to talk of here. But as I know you won't go into the church, I expect to see you settled
in London before Christmas."

"What am I to live on, my dear fellow?"

"Like all good nephews, live on your uncle. Besides, you will have your fellowship; live on
that, as I do."

"You have more than your fellowship; and as for my uncle, to tell you the truth, I have no
fancy for living on him. I am not quite sure that he doesn't mean me to think that it's charity.
However, I shall have the matter out with him now."

"Have the matter out with him!--and charity! What an ass you are! An uncle is just the same
as a father."

"My uncle is not the same to me as my father."

"No; and by all accounts it's lucky for you that he is not. Stick to your uncle, my dear fellow,
and come up to London. The ball will be at your foot."

"Did you ever read Marryat's novel, Harcourt?"

"What, Peter Simple?"

"No, that other one: I think of going out as another Japhet in search of a father. I have a
great anxiety to know what mine's like. It's fourteen years now since I saw him."

"He is at Teheran, isn't he?"

"At Hong Kong, I think, just at present; but I might probably catch him at Panama; he has something
to do with the isthmus there."

"You wouldn't have half the chance that Japhet had, and would only lose a great deal of time.
Besides, if you talk of means, that would want money."

They were now walking back towards Oxford, and had been talking about fifty indifferent subjects,
when Bertram again began.

"After all, there's only one decent career for a man in England."

"And what is the one decent career?"

"Politics and Parliament. It's all very well belonging to a free nation, and ruling oneself,
if one can be one of the rulers. Otherwise, as far as I can see, a man will suffer less from
the stings of pride under an absolute monarch. There, only one man has beaten you in life;
here, some seven hundred and fifty do so,--not to talk of the peers."

"Yes, but then a fellow has some chance of being one of the seven hundred and fifty."

"I shall go in for that, I think; only who the deuce will return me? How does a man begin?
Shall I send my compliments to the electors of Marylebone, and tell them that I am a very clever
fellow?"

"Exactly; only do something first to show that you are so. I mean also to look to that; but
I shall be well contented if I find myself in the house in twenty years' time,--or perhaps
in thirty."

"Ah, you mean as a lawyer."

"How else should a man without property get into Parliament?"

"That's just what I want to know. But I have no idea, Harcourt, of waiting twenty years before
I make my start in life. A man at any rate may write a book without any electors."

"Yes, but not have it read. The author who does any good must be elected by suffrages at least
as honestly obtained as those of a member of Parliament."

CHAPTER III.

THE NEW VICAR.

Poor Arthur Wilkinson was in a very unhappy frame of mind when he left the party at Parker's,
and, indeed, as he went to bed that night he was in a state not to be envied; but, nevertheless,
when the end of the week came, he was able to enter the parsonage with a cheerful step, and
to receive his mother's embrace with a smiling face. God is good to us, and heals those wounds
with a rapidity which seems to us impossible when we look forward, but which is regarded with
very insufficient wonder when we look backward.

Before he left Oxford he had seen the head of his college and the tutor; and had also felt
himself bound to visit the tradesmen in whose black books he was written down as a debtor.
None of these august persons made themselves so dreadful to him as he had expected. The master,
indeed, was more than civil--was almost paternally kind, and gave him all manner of hope, which
came as balm poured into his sick heart. Though he had failed, his reputation and known acquirements
would undoubtedly get him pupils; and then, if he resided, he might probably even yet have
a college fellowship, though, no doubt, not quite immediately. The master advised him to take
orders, and to remain within the college as long as the rules permitted. If he should get his
fellowship, they would all be delighted to have him as one of their body; there could--so thought
the master--be no doubt that he might in the meantime maintain himself at the University by
his pupils. The tutor was perhaps not quite so encouraging. He was a working man himself, and
of a harder temperament than his head. He thought that Wilkinson should have got a first, that
he had owed it to his college to do so, and that, having failed to pay his debt, he should
not be received with open arms--at any rate just at first. He was therefore cool, but not generous.
"Yes; I am sorry too; it is a pity," was all he said when Wilkinson expressed his own grief.
But even this was not so bad as Arthur had expected, and on the whole he left his college with
a lightened heart.

Nor were his creditors very obdurate. They did not smile so sweetly on him as they would have
done had his name been bruited down the High Street as that of a successful University pet.
Had such been his condition, they would have begged him not to distress their ears by anything
so unnecessarily mundane as the mention of his very small account. All that they would have
wanted of him would have been the continuation of his favours. As it was, they were very civil.
Six months would do very well. Oh! he could not quite undertake to pay it in six months, but
would certainly do so by instalments in two years. Two years was a long time, certainly; would
not Mr. Wilkinson senior prefer some quicker arrangement? Oh! Mr. Wilkinson senior could do
nothing! Ah! that was unfortunate! And so the arrangement for two years--with interest, of
course--was accepted. And thus Mr. Wilkinson junior began the swimming-match of life, as so
many others do, with a slight millstone round his neck. Well; it may be questioned whether
even that is not better than an air-puffed swimming-belt.

