There are two cases in which the bees manifest some reluctance in leaving the drawer. The first
is, when the combs are in an unfinished state--some of the cells not sealed over. The bees
manifest a great desire to remain there, probably to make their stores more secure from robbers,
by affixing caps to the uncovered cells, to prevent the effluvia of running honey, which is
always the greatest temptation to robbers.

Bees manifest the greatest reluctance in leaving the drawer, when young brood are removed in
it, which never occurs, except in such drawers as have been used for feeding in the winter
or early in the spring. When the Queen has deposited eggs in all the empty cells below, she
sometimes enters the drawers; and if empty cells are found, she deposits eggs there also. In
either case, it is better to return the drawer, which will be made perfect by them in a few days.

Special care is necessary in storing drawers of honey, when removed from the care and protection
of the bees, in order to preserve the honey from insects, which are great lovers of it, particularly
the ant. A chest, made perfectly tight, is a good store-house.

If the honey in the drawers is to be preserved for winter use, it should be kept in a room
so warm as not to freeze. Frost cracks the combs, and the honey will drip as soon as warm weather
commences. Drawers should be packed with their apertures up, for keeping or carrying to market.
All apiarians who would make the most profit from their bees, should remove the honey as soon
as the drawers are rilled, and supply their places with empty ones. The bees will commence
their labors in an empty box that has been filled, sooner than any others.

Take a drawer containing bees and brood comb, and place the same in the chamber of an empty
hive; taking care to stop the entrance of the hive, and give them clean water, daily, three
or four days. Then unstop the mouth of the hive, and give them liberty. The operator must observe
Rule 6 in using the slides.

REMARKS.

The prosperity of every colony depends entirely on the condition of the Queen, when the season
is favorable to them.

Every bee-master should understand their nature in this respect, so as to enable him to be
in readiness to supply them with another Queen when they chance to become destitute.

The discovery of the fact, that bees have power to change the nature of the grub (larva) of
a worker to that of a Queen, is attributed to Bonner. But neither Bonner nor the indefatigable
Huber, nor any other writer, to my knowledge, has gone so far in the illustration of this discovery
as to render it practicable and easy for common people to avail themselves of its benefits.

The Vermont hive is the only one, to my knowledge, in which bees can be compelled to make and
keep extra Queens for the use of their owner, without extreme difficulty, as well as danger,
by stings, in attempting the experiment.

The idea of raising her royal highness, and elevating and establishing her upon the throne
of a colony, may, by some, be deemed altogether visionary and futile; but I will assure the
reader, that it is easier done than can be described. I have both raised them, and supplied
destitute swarms repeatedly.

When the drawer containing bees and brood comb is removed, the bees soon find themselves destitute
of a female, and immediately set themselves to work in constructing one or more royal cells.
When completed, which is commonly within forty-eight hours, they remove a grub (larva) from
the worker's cell, place the same in the new-made Queen's cell, feed it on that kind of food
which is designed only for Queens, and in from eight to sixteen days they have a perfect Queen.

As soon as the bees have safely deposited the grub in the new-made royal cell, the bees may
have their liberty. Their attachment to their young brood, and their fidelity to their Queen,
in any stage of its minority, is such, that they will never leave nor forsake them, and will
continue all their ordinary labors, with as much regularity as if they had a perfect Queen.

In making Queens in small boxes or drawers, the owner will not be troubled by their swarming
the same season they are made. There are so few bees in the drawer, they are unable to guard
the nymph Queens, if there are any, from being destroyed by the oldest, or the one which escapes
from her cell first.

In examining the drawer, in which I raised an extra Queen, I found not only the Queen, but
two royal cells, one of which was in perfect shape; the other was mutilated, probably by the
Queen which came out first. Now when there are so few bees to guard the nymphs, it would not
be very difficult for the oldest Queen to gain access to the cells, and destroy all the minor
Queens in the drawer.

When a drawer is removed to an empty hive, for the purpose of obtaining an extra Queen, it
should be placed some distance from the apiary, the better to prevent its being robbed by other
swarms. When it is some distance from other colonies, they are not so likely to learn its comparative
strength. There is but little danger however, of its being robbed, until after the bees are
out of danger of losing their Queen, which generally occurs in the swarming season.

The Queen is sometimes lost, in consequence of the young brood being too far advanced at the
time of the departure of the old Queen with her swarm. If the grubs had advanced very near
the dormant or chrysalis state, before the bees learnt their necessity for a Queen, and the
old Queen neglected to leave eggs, which is sometimes the case, then it would be impossible
for the bees to change their nature, and the colony would be lost, unless supplied with another.

RULE VIII.

ON SUPPLYING SWARMS, DESTITUTE OF A QUEEN, WITH ANOTHER.

Take the drawer from the hive, which was placed there according to Rule 7, and insert the same
into the chamber of the hive to be supplied; observing Rule 6 in the use of the slides.

REMARKS.

Colonies destitute of a Queen may be supplied with another the moment it is found they have
none; which is known only by their actions.

Bees, when deprived of their female sovereign, cease their labors; no pollen or beebread is
seen on their legs; no ambition seems to actuate their movements; no dead bees are drawn out;
no deformed bees, in the various stages of their minority, are extracted, and dragged out of
their cells, and dropped down about the hive, as is usual among all healthy and prosperous
colonies.

Colonies that have lost their Queen, when standing on the bench by the side of other swarms,
will run into the adjoining hive without the least resistance. They will commence their emigration
by running in confused platoons of hundreds, from their habitation to the next adjoining hive.
They immediately wheel about and run home again, and thus continue, sometimes for several days,
in the greatest confusion, constantly replenishing their neighbor's hive, by enlarging her
colony, and, at the same time, reducing their own, until there is not a single occupant left;
and remarkable as it is, they leave every particle of their stores for their owner or the depredations
of the moth.

Colonies lose their Queens more frequently during the swarming season than any other.

In the summer of 1830, I lost three good stocks of bees in consequence of their losing their
Queens, one of which was lost soon after the first swarming--the two others not many days after
the second swarming--all of which manifested similar actions, and ended in the same results,
which will be more particularly explained in remarks on Rule 10.

The Queen is sometimes lost, when she goes forth with a swarm, in consequence of being too
feeble to fly with her young colony; in which case the bees return to their parent stock in
a few minutes. In fact all occurrences of this kind originate in the inability of the Queen.
If she returns to the old stock, the swarm will come out again the next day, if the weather
is favorable. If the Queen is too feeble to return, and the apiarian neglects to look her up,
and restore her to her colony again, (which he ought to do,) the bees will not swarm again
until they have made another, or are supplied, which may be done immediately by giving them
any spare Queen, I have done it with entire success, and never failed in the experiment.

The Queen, when lost in swarming, is easily found, unless the wind is so strong as to have
blown her a considerable distance. A few bees are always found with her, which probably serve
as her aids, and greatly assist the apiarian in spying her out. She is frequently found near
the ground, on a spire of grass, the fence, or any place most convenient for her to alight,
when her strength fails her. I once had quite a search for her majesty, without much apparent
success. At the same time there were flying about me a dozen or more common workers. At last
her royal highness was discovered, concealed from my observation in a fold of my shirt sleeve.
I then returned her to her colony, which had already found their way home to the parent stock.

The Queen may be taken in the hand without danger, for she never stings by design, except when
conflicting with another Queen; and yet she has a stinger at least one third longer, but more
feeble than a worker.

The Queen is known by her peculiar shape, size, and movements. She differs but little in color
from a worker, and has the same number of legs and wings. She is much larger than any of the
bees. Her abdomen is very large and perfectly round, and is shaped more like the sugar-loaf,
which makes her known to the observer the moment she is seen. Her wings and proboscis are short.
Her movements are stately and majestic. She is much less in size after the season for breeding
is over. She is easily selected from among a swarm, at any season of the year, by any one who
has often seen her.

RULE IX.

ON MULTIPLYING COLONIES TO ANY DESIRABLE EXTENT, WITHOUT THEIR SWARMING.

This large drawer, No. 1, should always be used for this purpose. Give clean water daily, three
or four days. Now let the bees, in both hives, have their liberty.

REMARKS.

This operation is both practicable and easy, and is of prime importance to all cultivators,
who wish to avoid the necessity of hiving them when they swarm; and yet it will not prevent
swarming, except in that part of the divided colony which contains the Queen at the time of
their separation. The other part being compelled to make another Queen, (and they generally
make two or more) will be likely to swarm to avoid their battle, as explained in remarks on
Rule 2. The hive containing the old Queen may swarm for want of room; but, at any rate, in
performing the operation, it has saved the trouble of hiving one swarm, and prevented all danger
of their flight to the woods.

Multiplying colonies by this rule is a perfectly safe method of managing them, admitting they
are not allowed to swarm themselves so low as to leave unoccupied combs, which will be explained
in remarks on Rule 10.

RULE X.

ON PREVENTING THE DEPREDATIONS OF THE MOTH.

All such stocks as are infested with the moth, will manifest it as soon as warm weather commences
in the spring, by dropping some of the worms upon the bottom board. Let the apiarian clean
off the bottom board every other morning; at the same time strew on a spoonful or two of fresh,
pulverized salt.

Immediately after a second swarm has come forth from a hive, the same season, the old stock
should be examined; and if swarming has reduced their numbers so low as to leave unoccupied
combs, the apiarian should take the Queen from the swarm, and let them return to the old stock.
In case they remain in a cluster, hive them in a drawer, and return them immediately.

Third and fourth swarms should always have their Queens taken from them and the bees returned
to the parent stock.

REMARKS.

"This insect (the moth) is a native of Europe; but has found its way into this country, and
naturalized itself here."--THATCHER.

This unwelcome visitor has interested the attention and called forth all the energies of the
most experienced apiarians of our country, and of many of the greatest naturalists in the world.
Their movements have been observed and scrutinized by the most learned--their nature has been
studied; various experiments have been tried to prevent their depredations; but after all,
the monster in gaudy hue marches onward, committing the greatest havoc and devastation, with
but little molestation. I have lost my whole stock at least four times since 1808, as I supposed
by the moth. I tried all the experiments recommended in this and other countries, that came
to my knowledge; but after all, I could not prevent their ravages.

In 1830, I constructed a hive (which has since been patented) which I supposed would afford
all the facilities for managing bees in every manner that their nature would admit of, and
at the same time render their cultivation most profitable to their owner. By constructing windows
of glass, on every side of the hive, nearly the size of its sides, and darkening them by closing
doors on the outside of the windows, which may be opened at pleasure, I have been able to discover
many important facts, both in relation to the nature and economy of the bee, and its enemy
the moth; but, probably, much yet remains to be learned concerning both.

The moth, when first discovered by the common observer, is a white worm or maggot, with a reddish
crusted head, and varies in size according to its living. Those which have full and unmolested
access to the contents of a hive, will frequently grow as large as a turkey-quill, and an inch
and a half in length. Others are scarcely an inch in length when full grown. They have sixteen
short legs, and taper each way from the centre of their bodies to their head and exterior or
abdomen.

The worms, like the silk-worm, wind themselves into a cocoon, and pass the dormant (chrysalis)
state of their existence, and in a few days come out of their silken cases perfect winged insects
or millers, and are soon ready to deposit their eggs, from which another crop will be raised.

The miller, or perfect moth, is of a grayish color, from three-fourths of an inch to an inch
in length. They usually lie perfectly still in the day time, with their head downwards, lurking
in and about the apiary. They enter the hive in the night, and deposit their eggs in such places
as are uncovered, of course unguarded by the bees. These eggs hatch in a short time, varying
according to circumstances, probably from two or three days to four or five months. At an early
stage of their existence, while yet a small worm, they spin a web, and construct a silken shroud,
or fortress, in which they envelope themselves, and form a sort of path, or gallery, as they
pass onward in their march; at the same time being perfectly secure from the bees, in their
silken case, which they widen as they grow larger, with an opening in their front only, near
their head, they commit the greatest havoc and devastation on the eggs, young bees and all,
that come in their way as they pass.

When the moth has arrived to his full state of maturity, he makes preparation to change to
a miller, by winding into a cocoon, as has been already explained. The miller is surprisingly
quick in all its movements, exceeding by far the agility of the quickest bee, either in flight
or on its legs. Hence the enemy becomes so formidable that the bees are easily overcome and
soon fall a sure prey to him.

Now, in order to remedy the evils of the moths, and prevent their ravages, and at the same
time aid the bees in their prosperity, and make them profitable to their owner, I found it
necessary to use a hive differing materially from the old box, and commenced operations in
the one already referred to, (called the Vermont hive,) in a course of experiments which have
produced results perfectly satisfactory. From six years experience in its use, I have not the
least doubt that bees may be managed to the best advantage, and without ever being materially
injured by the moths.

A bee-hive should be made in a perfect workmanlike manner, so as to have no open joints; the
boards should be free from shakes and cracks, because the bees will make their tenement perfectly
tight, so as to exclude light and air, by plastering up all such places as are left open by
the workman, with a kind of mortar, or glue, of their own make, which is neither honey nor
wax, but is very congenial to the growth of worms in the first stages of their larva state,
and being secured from the bees by the timber, in a short time they are able to defend themselves
by a silken shroud.

Now the miller enters the hive and makes an incision into the bee-glue, or cement, with her
sting, and leaves her eggs. These eggs hatch there, and the brood subsist on the glue until
they have arrived so far toward maturity as to enable them to encase themselves in a silken
shroud; and then they move onward.

Now unless the bees chance to catch him by the collar, or nape of his neck, while feeding,
and drag him out of his place of concealment, they will be compelled to cut away the combs
all around his silken path, or gallery, and drag out the worm and his fortress all together.
At the same time, the bees are compelled to cut away the combs so far as to destroy many of
their young brood in making room to remove the annoyance. I have known them to cut away their
combs from four to eight or ten inches to re move this silken shroud, and have known them to
cut and drag out their only remaining Queen before she was transformed to the perfect fly,
which occasioned the entire loss of the whole colony.

Repeated experiments have demonstrated the fact, that placing bees on the ground, or high in
the air, is no security against the moths. I have lost some of my best stocks by placing them
on the ground, when those on the bench were not injured by them. I have made a groove in the
bottom board, much wider than the thickness of the boards to the hive, and filled the same
with loam: I then placed the hive on the same, in such a manner as to prevent any crack or
vacancy for the worms; and yet in raising the hive four weeks afterwards, I found them apparently
full grown all around the hive in the dirt. I have found them very plenty in a tree ninety
feet from the ground.

The best method, in common practice, to prevent the depredations of the moth, is, to suspend
the bottom board so far below the lower edge of the hive as to give the bees free entrance
and egress all around the same during the moth season, or to raise the common hive, by placing
under it little blocks at each corner, which produces nearly the same effect. But I know of
but one rule, which is an infallible one, to prevent their depredations, and that is this:
keep the combs well guarded by bees. See Rule 10.

Large hives, that never swarm, are never destroyed by the moth, unless they lose their Queen,
melt down, or meet with some casualty, out of the ordinary course of managing them. They are
not often in the least annoyed by them, unless there are bad joints, cracks, or shakes, so
as to afford some lurking places for the worms. The reason for their prosperous condition is
obvious. The stock of bees are so numerous that their combs are all kept well guarded during
the moth season, so that no miller can enter and deposit her eggs.

Hives made so small as to swarm, are liable to reduce their colonies so small as to leave combs
unguarded, especially when they swarm three or four times the same season. All swarms, after
the first, sally forth to avoid the battle of the Queens; constantly making a greater draft,
in proportion to the number left, until the combs are partly exposed, which gives the miller
free access to their edges.--The seeds of rapine and plunder are thus quickly sown, and soon
vegetate, and fortify themselves by their silken fortress, before the bees are aware that their
frontiers are invaded. While the moths are thus engaged in establishing their posts on the
frontiers of the bees, the latter are constantly and indefatigably engaged in providing themselves
with another Queen, to supply the place of the old one, which has departed with a swarm, and
raising young bees to replenish their reduced colony. Now as the moths have got possession
of the ground on their frontiers, it requires a tremendous effort on the part of the bees to
save their little colony from a complete overthrow.

If late, or second and third swarms are always returned immediately, according to the rule,
the combs are kept so guarded that the moths are compelled to keep their distance, or be stung
to death before they can accomplish their purposes.

Hives made so large as not to swarm may lose their Queen, and then they will abandon their
habitation and emigrate into the adjoining hive, leaving all their stores to their owner, which,
unless immediately taken care of, the moths will not fail to destroy.

The moths are often complained of when they are not guilty. Hives are frequently abandoned
by their occupants, in consequence of the loss of their Queen, unnoticed by any observer, and
before any thing is known of their fate, the hive is destitute of bees, and filled with moths.

In the summer of 1834, one of my neighbors had a very large hive that never swarmed, which
lost their Queen; and in the course of a few days the bees entirely vacated their tenement,
and emigrated into an adjoining hive, leaving the whole of their stores, which amounted to
215 lbs. of honey in the comb.

No young bees or moths were discovered in the hive. Instances of this kind frequently occur,
and the true cause is unknown, from inattention.

The Queen may be superannuated, or may become diseased in the breeding season, so as to render
her unfruitful; or she may die of old age. In either case, the colony will be lost, unless
supplied with another Queen, as explained in remarks on Rule 8; for when the Queen becomes
unfruitful by either of the foregoing causes, the bees are not apprized of the loss which will
in future be sustained by them, until after the means of repairing the same are gone beyond
their reach. All the grubs may have passed the various stages of their transformation, or at
least advanced so far towards the perfect insect, that their nature cannot be changed to a Queen.

The Queen is much more tenacious of life than any other bee, and may live to a great age. But
one Queen exists in the same hive any great length of time. When there are more than one, the
peculiar sound of each, as explained in remarks on Rule 2, is heard by the other, which always
results in a battle between them, or the issue of a swarm in the course of a day or two.

Bees, when placed in a dark room in the upper part of the house, or some out-house, are easily
cultivated a short time with little trouble, and are sometimes made profitable to their owner;
but as they are liable to some of the same casualties as those kept in swarming hives, they
cannot be as profitable.

Large colonies never increase their stock in proportion to the swarming colonies. There is
but one female in a large colony, and they can do but little more in raising young bees than
to keep their stock good by replenishing them as fast as they die off or are destroyed by the
birds, reptiles and insects, which are great admirers of them, and sometimes swallow them by
dozens. Now if it requires five swarming colonies to be equal in number to the one first described,
it is not difficult to imagine that five times as many bees may be raised by the swarming colonies:
for one Queen will probably lay as many eggs as another.

The swarming hives are no more liable to be destroyed by the moth during the swarming season,
than others, if the hives are kept well replenished with bees according to Rule 10.

RULE XI.

ON FEEDING BEES.

If it is found that a swarm need feeding, hitch on the feeder, well stored with good honey,
while the weather is warm in October.

The apiarian should use the same precaution in feeding, as directed in Rule 4, to prevent robberies.

REMARKS.

The best time to feed is in the fall, before cold weather commences. All hives should be weighed,
and the weight marked on the hive before bees are hived in them. Then, by weighing a stock
as soon as frost has killed the blossoms in the fall, the apiarian will be able to form a just
estimate of their necessities.

When bees are fed in the fall, they will carry up and deposit their food in such a manner as
will be convenient for them in the winter. If feeding is neglected until cold weather the bees
must be removed to a warm room, or dry cellar, and then they will carry up their food, generally,
no faster than they consume it.

A feeder should be made like a box with five sides closed, leaving a part of the sixth side
open, to admit the bees from their common entrance with its floor level, when hitched on the
front of the hive. It should be of sufficient depth to lay in broad comb, filled with honey.
If strained honey without combs is used for feeding, a float, perforated with many holes, should
be laid over the whole of the honey in the box, or feeder, so as to prevent any of the bees
from drowning; and at the same time, this float should be so thin as to enable them to reach
the honey. It should be made so small that it will settle down as fast as the honey is removed
by the bees. As soon as warm weather commences in the spring, the feeder may be used. Small
drawers cannot be depended on as feeders, except in the spring and summer, unless they are
kept so warm that the vapor of the bees will not freeze in them. It would be extremely hazardous
for the bees to enter a frosty drawer. They will sooner starve than attempt the experiment.
Drawers may be used without danger from robbers, but when the feeder is used, robbers must
be guarded against as directed in Rule 4.

Care should be exercised, in fall-feeding, to supply them with good honey, otherwise the colony
may be lost before spring by disease. Poor honey may be given them in the spring, at the time
when they can obtain and provide themselves with medicine, which they only best understand.

Sugar dissolved, or molasses, may be used in the spring to some advantage, but ought not to
be substituted for honey, when it can be obtained.

Bees sometimes die of starvation, with plenty of honey in the hive at the same time. In cold
weather they crowd together in a small compass in order to keep warm; and then their breath
and vapor collect in frost, in all parts of the hive, except in the region they occupy. Now,
unless the weather moderates, so as to thaw the ice, the bees will be compelled to remain where
they are located until their stores are all consumed that are within their reach. One winter
we had cold weather ninety-four days in succession, during which time the bees could not move
from one part of the hive to another. I examined all my hives on the eighty-third day, and
on the ninetieth day I found four swarms dead. I immediately examined for the cause, which
was as already stated. I then carried all my hives into a warm room and thawed them, so that
the bees could move. Some hives that I supposed were dead, revived; some few swarms I found
nearly destitute of stores, which I carried into the cellar, turned them bottom up, cut out
a few of the combs, so as to make room to lay in combs filled with honey, which served as good
feeders.

RULE XII.

ON WINTERING BEES.

On the near approach of winter, as soon as the bees have receded from the drawers and gone
below, insert a slide, take out the drawers, and supply their places with empty ones, bottom
up. Suspend the bottom board at least one eighth of an inch below the lower edge of the hive,
and open the ventilator.--Clean off the bottom board as often as the weather changes from cold
to warm. Close no doors upon them, unless they are kept in a spacious room, and in such a place
that the breath and steam of the bees will not freeze.

REMARKS.

Various methods have been practised by different individuals. Some have buried them in the
ground, others kept them in the cellar, chamber, &c. One course only will be observed in this
place.

RULE XIII.

ON TRANSFERRING SWARMS.

This operation should never be effected by compulsion.

FIRST METHOD. Insert drawer No. 1 into the chamber of the hive, to be transferred as early
as the first of May. If the bees fill the drawer, they will recede from the lower apartment
and winter in the drawer. As early in the spring as the bees carry in bread plentifully on
their legs, remove the drawer, which will contain the principal part of the bees, to an empty
hive. Now remove the old hive a few feet in front, and place the new one containing the drawer
where the old one stood. Now turn the old hive bottom up. If there are any bees left in the
old hive, they will soon return and take possession of their new habitation.

SECOND METHOD. Take drawer No. 1, well filled by any hive the same season, insert the same
into the chamber of the hive, to be transferred in September, (August would be better.) If
the bees need transferring, they will repair to the drawer and make the same their winter quarters.
Then proceed in the spring as directed in the first method.

REMARKS.

This management should excite a deep interest in every cultivator, both in a temporal and moral
point of view. Temporal, because the lives of all the bees are preserved; moral, because we
are accountable to God for all our acts. We are not to be justified in taking the lives of
animals or insects, which are but lent blessings, unless some benefit to the owner can be derived
from their death, which will outweigh the evils resulting from such a sacrifice. Duty compels
me to protest in the strongest terms and feelings, against the inhuman practice of taking the
lives of the most industrious and comforting insects to the wants of the human family by fire
and brimstone.

When bees have occupied one tenement for several years, the combs become thick and filthy,
by being filled up with old bread and cocoons, made by the young bees when transformed from
a larva to the perfect fly.

