It must ever be borne in mind, that the principal source and seat of future torment will be
the sinner's sin. We must never harbor the thought, or fall into the notion, that the retributions
of eternity are a wanton and arbitrary infliction upon the part of God. Some men seem to suppose,
or at any rate they represent, that the woes of hell are a species of undeserved suffering;
that God, having certain helpless and innocent creatures in His power, visits them with wrath,
in the exercise of an arbitrary sovereignty. But this is not Christ's doctrine of endless punishment.
There is no suffering inflicted, here or hereafter, upon any thing but sin,--unrepented, incorrigible
sin,--and if you will show me a sinless creature, I will show you one who will never feel the
least twinge or pang through all eternity. Death is the wages of sin. The substance of the
wretchedness of the lost will issue right out of their own character. They will see their own
wickedness steadily and clearly, and this will make them miserable. It will be the carrying
out of the same principle that operates here in time, and in our own daily experience. Suppose
that by some method, all the sin of my heart, and all the sins of my outward conduct, were
made clear to my own view; suppose that for four-and-twenty hours continuously I were compelled
to look at my wickedness intently, just as I would look intently into a burning furnace of
fire; suppose that for this length of time I should see nothing, and hear nothing, and experience
nothing of the world, about me, but should be absorbed in the vision of my own disobedience
of God's good law, think you that (setting aside the work of Christ) I should be happy? On
the contrary, should I not be the most wretched of mortals? Would not this self-knowledge be
pure living torment? And yet the misery springs entirely out of the sin. There is nothing arbitrary
or wanton in the suffering. It is not brought in upon me from the outside. It comes out of
myself. And, while I was writhing under the sense and power of my transgressions, would you
mock me, by telling me that I was a poor innocent struggling in the hands of omnipotent malice;
that the suffering was unjust, and that if there were any justice in the universe, I should
be delivered from it? No, we shall suffer in the future world only as we are sinners, and because
we are sinners. There will be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth, only because the sinful
creature will be compelled to look at himself; to know his sin in the same manner that it is
known by the Infinite Intelligence. And is there any injustice in this? If a sinful being cannot
bear the sight of himself, would you have the holy Deity step in between him and his sins,
so that he should not see them, and so that he might be happy in them? Away with such folly
and such wickedness. For it is the height of wickedness to desire that some method should be
invented, and introduced into the universe of God, whereby the wages of sin shall be life and
joy; whereby a sinner can look into his own wicked heart and be happy.

III. A third characteristic of the knowledge which every man will possess in eternity will
be a clear understanding of the nature and wants of the soul. Man has that in his constitution,
which needs God, and which cannot be at rest except in God. A state of sin is a state of alienation
and separation from the Creator. It is, consequently, in its intrinsic nature, a state of restlessness
and dissatisfaction. "There is no peace saith my God to the wicked; the wicked are like the
troubled sea." In order to know this, it is only necessary to bring an apostate creature, like
man, to a consciousness of the original requirements and necessities of his being. But upon
this subject, man while upon earth most certainly knows only "in part." Most men are wholly
ignorant of the constitutional needs of a rational spirit, and are not aware that it is as
impossible for the creature, when in eternity, to live happily out of God, as it is for the
body to live at all in the element of fire. Most men, while here upon earth, do not know upon
this subject as they are known. God knows that the whole created universe cannot satisfy the
desires of an immortal being, but impenitent men do not know this fact with a clear perception,
and they will not until they die and go into another world.

And the reason is this. So long as the worldly natural man lives upon earth, he can find a
sort of substitute for God. He has a capacity for loving, and he satisfies it to a certain
degree by loving himself; by loving fame, wealth, pleasure, or some form of creature-good.
He has a capacity for thinking, and he gratifies it in a certain manner by pondering the thoughts
of other minds, or by original speculations of his own. And so we might go through with the
list of man's capacities, and we should find, that he contrives, while here upon earth, to
meet these appetences of his nature, after a sort, by the objects of time and sense, and to
give his soul a species of satisfaction short of God, and away from God. Fame, wealth, and
pleasure; the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, and the pride of life; become a substitute
for the Creator, in his search, for happiness. As a consequence, the unregenerate man knows
but "in part" respecting the primitive and constitutional necessities of his being. He is feeding
them with a false and unhealthy food, and in this way manages to stifle for a season their
true and deep cravings. But this cannot last forever. When a man dies and goes into eternity,
he takes nothing with him but his character and his moral affinities. "We brought nothing into
this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out." The original requirements and
necessities of his soul are not destroyed by death, but the earthly objects by which he sought
to meet them, and by which he did meet them after a sort, are totally destroyed. He still has
a capacity for loving; but in eternity where is the fame, the wealth, the pleasure upon which
he has hitherto expended it? He still has a capacity for thinking; but where are the farm,
the merchandise, the libraries, the works of art, the human literatures, and the human philosophies,
upon which he has heretofore employed it? The instant you cut off a creature who seeks his
good in the world, and not in God, from intercourse with the world, you cause him to know even
as he is known respecting the true and proper portion of his soul. Deprived of his accustomed
and his false object of love and support, he immediately begins to reach out in all directions
for something to love, something to think of, something to trust in, and finds nothing. Like
that insect in our gardens which spins a slender thread by which to guide itself in its meanderings,
and which when the clew is cut thrusts out its head in every direction, but does not venture
to advance, the human creature who has suddenly been cut off by death from his accustomed objects
of support and pleasure stretches out in every direction for something to take their place.
And the misery of his case is, that when in his reachings out he sees God, or comes into contact
with God, he starts back like the little insect when you present a coal of fire to it. He needs
as much as ever, to love some being or some thing. But he has no heart to love God and there
is no other being and no other thing in eternity to love. He needs, as much as ever, to think
of some object or some subject. But to think of God is a distress to him; to reflect upon divine
and holy things is weariness and woe. He is a carnal, earthly-minded man, and therefore cannot
find enjoyment in such meditations. Before he can take relish in such objects and such thinking,
he must be born again; he must become a new creature. But there is no new-birth of the soul
in eternity. The disposition and character which a man takes along with him when he dies remains
eternally unchanged. The constitutional wants still continue. The man must love, and must think.
But the only object in eternity upon which such capability can be expended is God; and the
carnal mind, saith the Scripture, is enmity against God, and is not subject to the law of God,
neither indeed can be.

Now, whatever may be the course of a man in this life; whether he becomes aware of these created
imperatives, and constitutional necessities of his immortal spirit or not; whether he hears
its reproaches and rebukes because he is feeding them with the husks of earth, instead of the
bread of heaven, or not; it is certain that in the eternal world they will be continually awake
and perpetually heard. For that spiritual world will be fitted up for nothing but a rational
spirit. There will be nothing material, nothing like earth, in its arrangements. Flesh and
blood cannot inherit either the kingdom of God or the kingdom of Satan. The enjoyments and
occupations of this sensuous and material state will be found neither in heaven nor in hell.
Eternity is a spiritual region, and all its objects, and all its provisions, will have reference
solely to the original capacities and destination of a spiritual creature. They will, therefore,
all be terribly reminiscent of apostasy; only serving to remind the soul of what it was originally
designed to be, and of what it has now lost by worshipping and loving the creature more than
the Creator. How wretched then must man be, when, with the awakening of this restlessness and
dissatisfaction of an immortal spirit, and with the bright pattern of what he ought to be continually
before his eye, there is united an intensity of self-love and enmity toward God, that drives
him anywhere and everywhere but to his Maker, for peace and comfort. How full of woe must the
lost creature be, when his immortal necessities are awakened and demand their proper food,
but cannot obtain it, because of the aversion of the heart toward the only Being who can satisfy
them. For, the same hatred of holiness, and disinclination toward spiritual things, which prevents
a man from choosing God for his portion here, will prevent him hereafter. It is the bold fancy
of an imaginative thinker,[4] that the material forces which lie beneath external nature are
conscious of being bound down and confined under the crust of the earth, like the giant Enceladus
under Mt. Etna, and that there are times when they roar from the depths where they are in bondage,
and call aloud for freedom; when they rise in their might, and manifest themselves in the earthquake
and the volcano. It will be a more fearful and terrific struggle, when the powers of an apostate
being are roused in eternity; when the then eternal sin and guilt has its hour of triumph,
and the eternal reason and conscience have their hour of judgment and remorse; when the inner
world of man's spirit, by this schism and antagonism within it, has a devastation and a ruin
spread over it more awful than that of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.

We have thus, in this and the preceding discourse, considered the kind and quality of that
knowledge which every human being will possess in the eternal world. He will know God, and
he will know himself, with a distinct, and accurate, and unceasing intelligence like that of
the Deity. It is one of the most solemn and startling themes that can be presented to the human
mind. We have not been occupied with what will be around a creature, what will be outside of
a man, in the life to come; but we have been examining what will be within him. We have been
considering what he will think of beyond the tomb; what his own feelings will be when he meets
God face to face. But a man's immediate consciousness determines his happiness or his misery.
As a man thinketh in his heart so is he. We must not delude ourselves with the notion, that
the mere arrangements and circumstances of the spiritual world will decide our weal or our
woe, irrespective of the tenor of our thoughts and affections; that if we are only placed in
pleasant gardens or in golden streets, all will be well. As a man thinketh in his heart, so
will he be in his experience. This vision of God, and of our own hearts, will be either the
substance of heaven, or the substance of hell. The great future is a world of open vision.
Now, we see through a glass darkly, but then, face to face. The vision for every human creature
will be beatific, if he is prepared for it; will be terrific, if he is unprepared.

Does not the subject, then, speak with solemn warning to every one who knows that he is not
prepared for the coming revelations that will be made to him when he dies; for this clear and
accurate knowledge of God, and of his own character? Do you believe that there is an eternal
world, and that the general features of this mode of existence have been scripturally depicted?
Do you suppose that your present knowledge of the holiness of God, and of your own sinful nature,
is equal to what it will be when your spirit returns to God who gave it? Are you prepared for
the impending and inevitable disclosures and revelations of the day of judgment? Do you believe
that Jesus Christ is the Eternal Son of God, who came forth from eternity eighteen centuries
since, and went back into eternity, leaving upon record for human instruction an unexaggerated
description of that invisible world, founded upon the personal knowledge of an eye-witness?

Whoever thus believes, concerning the record which Christ and His apostles have left for the
information of dim-eyed mortals who see only "through a glass darkly," and who know only "in
part," ought immediately to adopt their descriptions and ponder them long and well. We have
already observed, that the great reason why the future state exerts so little influence over
worldly men lies in the fact, that they do not bring it into distinct view. They live absorbed
in the interests and occupations of earth, and their future abode throws in upon them none
of its solemn shadows and warnings. A clear luminous perception of the nature and characteristics
of that invisible world which is soon to receive them, would make them thoughtful and anxious
for their souls; for they would become aware of their utter unfitness, their entire lack of
preparation, to see God face to face. Still, live and act as sinful men may, eternity is over
and around them all, even as the firmament is bent over the globe. If theirs were a penitent
and a believing eye, they would look up with adoration into its serene depths, and joyfully
behold the soft gleam of its stars, and it would send down upon them the sweet influences of
its constellations. They may shut their eyes upon all this glory, and feel only earthly influences,
and continue to be "of the earth, earthy." But there is a time coming when they cannot but
look at eternity; when this firmament will throw them into consternation by the livid glare
of its lightnings, and will compel them to hear the quick rattle and peal of its thunder; when
it will not afford them a vision of glory and joy, as it will the redeemed and the holy, but
one of despair and destruction.

There is only one shelter from this storm; there is only one covert from this tempest. He,
and only he, who trusts in Christ's blood of atonement, will be able to look into the holy
countenance of God, and upon the dread record of his own sins, without either trembling or
despair. The merits and righteousness of Christ so clothe the guilty soul, that it can endure
the otherwise intolerable brightness of God's pure throne and presence.

Amidst those great visions that are to dawn upon every human creature, those souls will be
in perfect peace who trust in the Great Propitiation. In those great tempests that are to shake
down the earth and the sky, those hearts will be calm and happy who are hid in the clefts of
the Rock of Ages. Flee then to Christ, ye prisoners of hope. Make preparation to know even
as you are known, by repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. A voice comes
to you out of the cloud, saying, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye
Him." Remember, and forget not, that this knowledge of God and your own heart is inevitable.
At death, it will all of it flash upon the soul like lightning at midnight. It will fill the
whole horizon of your being full of light. If you are in Christ Jesus, the light will not harm
you. But if you are out of Christ, it will blast you. No sinful mortal can endure such a vision
an instant, except as he is sprinkled with atoning blood, and clothed in the righteousness
of the great Substitute and Surety for guilty man. Flee then to CHRIST, and so be prepared
to know God and your own heart, even as you are known.

[Footnote 1: Noverim me, noverim Te.--BERNARD.]

[Footnote 2: Shakespeare: Hamlet, Act III., Sc. 4.]

[Footnote 3: Howe: On Regeneration. Sermon xliii.]

[Footnote 4: Bookschammer: On the Will.]

GOD'S EXHAUSTIVE KNOWLEDGE OF MAN.

PSALM cxxxix.

One of the most remarkable characteristics of a rational being is the power of self-inspection.
The brute creation possesses many attributes that are common to human nature, but it has no
faculty that bears even the remotest resemblance to that of self-examination. Instinctive action,
undoubtedly, approaches the nearest of any to human action. That wonderful power by which the
bee builds up a structure that is not exceeded in accuracy, and regularity, and economy of
space, by the best geometry of Athens or of Rome; by which the beaver, after having chosen
the very best possible location for it on the stream, constructs a dam that outlasts the work
of the human engineer; by which the faithful dog contrives to perform many acts of affection,
in spite of obstacles, and in the face of unexpected discouragements,--the instinct, we say,
of the brute creation, as exhibited in a remarkably wide range of action and contrivance, and
in a very varied and oftentimes perplexing conjuncture of circumstances, seems to bring man
and beast very near to each other, and to furnish some ground for the theory of the materialist,
that there is no essential difference between the two species of existences. But when we pass
beyond the mere power of acting, to the additional power of surveying or inspecting an act,
and of forming an estimate of its relations to moral law, we find a faculty in man that makes
him differ in kind from the brute. No brute animal, however high up the scale, however ingenious
and sagacious he may be, can ever look back and think of what he has done, "his thoughts the
meanwhile accusing or else excusing him."

The mere power of performance, is, after all, not the highest power. It is the superadded power
of calmly looking over the performance, and seeing what has been done, that marks the higher
agency, and denotes a loftier order of existence than that of the animal or of material nature.
If the mere ability to work with energy, and produce results, constituted the highest species
of power, the force of gravitation would be the loftiest energy in the universe. Its range
of execution is wider than that of any other created principle. But it is one of the lower
and least important of agencies, because it is blind. It is destitute of the power of self-inspection.
It does not know what it does, or why. "Man," says Pascal,[1] "is but a reed, and the weakest
in all nature; yet he is a reed that thinks. The whole material universe does not need to arm
itself, in order to crush him. A vapor, a drop of water is enough to destroy him. But if the
whole universe of matter should combine to crush him, man would be more noble than that which
destroyed him. For he would be conscious that he was dying, while, of the advantage which the
material universe had obtained over him, that universe would know nothing." The action of a
little child is altogether nothing and vanity compared with the energy of the earthquake or
the lightning, so far as the exhibition of force and the mere power to act is concerned; but,
on the other hand, it is more solemn than centuries of merely natural processes, and more momentous
than all the material phenomena that have ever filled the celestial spaces, when we remember
that it is the act of a thinking agent, and a self-conscious creature. The power to survey
the act, when united with the power to act, sets mind infinitely above matter, and places the
action of instinct, wonderful as it is, infinitely below the action of self-consciousness.
The proud words of one of the characters in the old drama are strictly true:

  "I am a nobler substance than the stars,
  Or are they better since they are bigger?
  I have a will and faculties of choice,
  To do or not to do; and reason why
  I do or not do this: the stars have none.
  They know not why they shine, more than this taper,
  Nor how they, work, nor what."[2]

But this characteristic of a rational being, though thus distinctive and common to every man
that lives, is exceedingly marvellous. Like the air we breathe, like the light we see, it involves
a mystery that no man has ever solved. Self-consciousness has been the problem and the thorn
of the philosophic mind in all ages; and the mystery is not yet unravelled. Is not that a wonderful
process by which a man knows, not some other thing but, himself? Is not that a strange act
by which he, for a time, duplicates his own unity, and sets himself to look at himself? All
other acts of consciousness are comparatively plain and explicable. When we look at an object
other than ourselves,--when we behold a tree or the sky,--the act of knowledge is much more
simple and easy to be explained. For then there is something outside of us, and in front of
us, and another thing than we are, at which we look, and which we behold. But in this act of
self-inspection there is no second thing, external, and extant to us, which we contemplate.
That which is seen is one and the same identical object with that which sees. The act of knowledge
which in all other instances requires the existence of two things,--a thing to be known and
a thing to know,--in this instance is performed with only one. It is the individual soul that
sees, and it is that very same individual soul that is seen. It is the individual man that
knows, and it is that very identical man that is known. The eyeball looks at the eyeball.

And when this power of self-inspection is connected with the power of memory, the mystery of
human existence becomes yet more complicated, and its explanation still more baffling. Is it
not exceedingly wonderful, that we are able to re-exhibit our own thoughts and feelings; that
we can call back what has gone clear by in our experience, and steadily look at it once more?
Is it not a mystery that we can summon before our mind's eye feelings, purposes, desires, and
thoughts, which occurred in the soul long years ago, and which, perhaps, until this moment,
we have not thought of for years? Is it not a marvel, that they come up with all the vividness
with which they first took origin in our experience, and that the lapse of time has deprived
them of none of their first outlines or colors? Is it not strange, that we can recall that
one particular feeling of hatred toward a fellow-man which, rankled in the heart twenty years
ago; that we can now eye it, and see it as plainly as if it were still throbbing within us;
that we can feel guilty for it once more, as if we were still cherishing it? If it were not
so common, would it not be surprising, that we can reflect upon acts of disobedience toward
God which we committed in the days of childhood, and far back in the dim twilights of moral
agency; that we can re-act them, as it were, in our memory, and fill ourselves again with the
shame and distress that attended their original commission? Is it not one of those mysteries
which overhang human existence, and from which that of the brute is wholly free, that man can
live his life, and act his agency, over, and over, and over again, indefinitely and forever,
in his self-consciousness; that he can cause all his deeds to pass and re-pass before his self-reflection,
and be filled through and through with the agony of self-knowledge? If I take the wings of
the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there must I know myself, and
acquit or condemn myself.

But if that knowledge whereby man knows himself is mysterious, then certainly that whereby
God knows him is far more so. That act whereby another being knows my secret thoughts, and
inmost feelings, is most certainly inexplicable. That cognition whereby another person understands
what takes place in the corners of my heart, and sees the minutest movements of my spirit,
is surely high; most surely I cannot attain unto it.

And yet, it is a truth of revelation that God searches the heart of man; that He knows his
down-sitting and uprising, and understands his thought afar off; that He compasses his path
and his lying-down, and is acquainted with all his ways. And yet, it is a deduction of reason,
also, that because God is the creator of the human mind, He must perfectly understand its secret
agencies; that He in whose Essence man lives and moves and has his being, must behold every
motion, and feel every stirring of the human spirit. "He that planted the ear, shall He not
hear? He that formed the eye, shall He not see?" Let us, then, ponder the fact of God's exhaustive
knowledge of man's soul, that we may realize it, and thereby come under its solemn power and
impression. For all religion, all holy and reverential fear of God, rises and sets, as in an
atmosphere, in the thought: "Thou God seest me."

I. In analyzing and estimating the Divine knowledge of the human soul, we find, in the first
place, that God accurately and exhaustively knows all that man knows of himself.

Every man in a Christian land, who is in the habit of frequenting the house of God, possesses
more or less of that self-knowledge of which we have spoken. He thinks of the moral character
of some of his own thoughts. He reflects upon the moral quality of some of his own feelings.
He considers the ultimate tendency of some of his own actions. In other words, there is a part
of his inward and his outward life with which he is uncommonly well acquainted; of which he
has a distinct perception. There are some thoughts of his mind, at which he blushes at the
very time of their origin, because he is vividly aware what they are, and what they mean. There
are some emotions of his heart, at which he trembles and recoils at the very moment of their
uprising, because he perceives clearly that they involve a very malignant depravity. There
are some actings of his will, of whose wickedness he is painfully conscious at the very instant
of their rush and movement. We are not called upon, here, to say how many of a man's thoughts,
feelings, and determinations, are thus subjected to his self-inspection at the very time of
their origin, and are known in the clear light of self-knowledge. We are not concerned, at
this point, with the amount of this man's self-inspection and self-knowledge. We are only saying
that there is some experience such as this in his personal history, and that he does know something
of himself, at the very time of action, with a clearness and a distinctness that makes him
start, or blush, or fear.

Now we say, that in reference to all this intimate self-knowledge, all this best part of a
man's information respecting himself, he is not superior to God. He may be certain that in
no particular does he know more of himself than the Searcher of hearts knows. He may be an
uncommonly thoughtful person, and little of what is done within his soul may escape his notice,--nay,
we will make the extreme supposition that he arrests every thought as it rises, and looks at
it, that he analyzes every sentiment as it swells his heart, that he scrutinizes every purpose
as it determines his will,--even if he should have such a thorough and profound self-knowledge
as this, God knows him equally profoundly, and equally thoroughly. Nay more, this process of
self-inspection may go on indefinitely, and the man may grow more and more thoughtful, and
obtain an everlastingly augmenting knowledge of what he is and what he does, so that it shall
seem to him that he is going down so far along that path which the vulture's eye hath not seen,
is penetrating so deeply into those dim and shadowy regions of consciousness where the external
life takes its very first start, as to be beyond the reach of any eye, and the ken of any intelligence
but his own, and then he may be sure that God understands the thought that is afar off, and
deep down, and that at this lowest range and plane in his experience He besets him behind and
before.

O, this man, like the most of mankind, may be an unreflecting person. Then, in this case, thoughts,
feelings, and purposes are continually rising up within his soul like the clouds and exhalations
of an evaporating deluge, and at the time of their rise he subjects them to no scrutiny of
conscience, and is not pained in the least by their moral character and significance. He lacks
self-knowledge altogether, at these points in his history. But, notice that the fact that he
is not self-inspecting at these points cannot destroy the fact that he is acting at them. The
fact that he is not a spectator of his own transgression, does not alter the fact that he is
the author of it. If this man, for instance, thinks over his worldly affairs on God's holy
day, and perhaps in God's holy house, with such an absorption and such a pleasure that he entirely
drowns the voice of conscience while he is so doing, and self-inspection is banished for the
time, it will not do for him to plead this absence of a distinct and painful consciousness
of what his mind was actually doing in the house of God, and upon the Lord's day, as the palliative
and excuse of his wrong thoughts. If this man, again, indulges in an envious or a sensual emotion,
with such an energy and entireness, as for the time being to preclude all action of the higher
powers of reason and self-reflection, so that for the time being he is not in the least troubled
by a sense of his wickedness, it will be no excuse for him at the eternal bar, that he was
not thinking of his envy or his lust at the time when he felt it. And therefore it is, that
accountableness covers the whole field of human agency, and God holds us responsible for our
thoughtless sin, as well as for our deliberate transgression.

