But strong as is His love, and His desire for His bride, He can come no further. Where she
now is He can never come. But surely she will go forth to Him. Has He not a claim upon her?
She feels and enjoys His love, will she let His desire count for nothing? For, let us notice,
it is not here the bride longing in vain for her LORD, but the Bridegroom who is seeking for
her. Alas that He should seek in vain! The enemies may be small, but the mischief done great.
A little spray of blossom, so tiny as to be scarcely perceived, is easily spoiled, but thereby
the fruitfulness of a whole branch may be for ever destroyed. And how numerous the little foxes
are! Little compromises with the world; disobedience to the still small voice in little things;
little indulgences of the flesh to the neglect of duty; little strokes of policy; doing evil
in little things that good may come; and the beauty and the fruitfulness of the vine are sacrificed!

We have a sad illustration of the deceitfulness of sin in the response of the bride. Instead
of bounding forth to meet Him, she first comforts her own heart by the remembrance of His faithfulness,
and of her union with Him:--

          My Beloved is mine, and I am His:
          He feedeth His flock among the lilies.

My position is one of security, I have no need to be concerned about it. He is mine, and I
am His; and nought can alter that relationship. I can find Him now at any time, He feedeth
His flock among the lilies. While the sun of prosperity shines upon me I may safely enjoy myself
here without Him. Should trial and darkness come He will be sure not to fail me.

Careless of His desire, she thus lightly dismisses Him, with the thought: A little later I
may enjoy His love; and the grieved Bridegroom departs!

Poor foolish bride! she will soon find that the things that once satisfied her can satisfy
no longer; and that it is easier to turn a deaf ear to His tender call than to recall or find
her absent LORD.

The day became cool, and the shadows did flee away; but He returned not. Then in the solemn
night she discovered her mistake: It was dark, and she was alone. Retiring to rest she still
hoped for His return--the lesson that worldliness is an absolute bar to full communion still
unlearned.

          By night on my bed I sought Him whom my soul loveth:
          I sought Him, but I found Him not!

She waits and wearies: His absence becomes insupportable:--

          I said, I will rise now, and go about the city,
          In the streets and in the broad ways,
          I will seek Him whom my soul loveth:
          I sought Him, but I found Him not!

How different her position from what it might have been! Instead of seeking Him alone, desolate
and in the dark, she might have gone forth with Him in the sunshine, leaning upon His arm.
She might have exchanged the partial view of her Beloved through the lattice, when she could
no longer say "Nothing between," for the joy of His embrace, and His public confession of her
as His chosen bride!

          The watchmen that go about the city found me:
          To whom I said, Saw ye Him whom my soul loveth?
          It was but a little that I passed from them,
          When I found Him whom my soul loveth.

She had already obeyed His command, "Arise, and come away."

Jerusalem above is the mother of us all. There it is that communion is enjoyed, not in worldly
ways or self-willed indulgence.

May we all, while living down here, in the world, but not of it, find
our home in the heavenly places to which we have been raised, and in
which we are seated together with CHRIST. Sent into the world to witness
for our MASTER, may we ever be strangers there, ready to confess Him the
true object of our soul's devotion.
          Blessed are they that dwell in Thy house:
          They will be still praising Thee. . . .
          O LORD of hosts,
          Blessed is the man that trusteth in Thee!

FOOTNOTE:

[3] See note on p. 26.

SECTION III

THE JOY OF UNBROKEN COMMUNION

Cant. iii. 6-v. 1

          O JESU, KING most wonderful,
            Thou CONQUEROR renown'd,
          Thou sweetness most ineffable,
            In whom all joys are found!
          Thee, JESU, may our voices bless;
          Thee may we love alone;
          And ever in our lives express
          The image of Thine own.

WE have been mainly occupied in Sections I. and II. with the words and the experiences of the
bride; in marked contrast to this, in this section our attention is first called to the Bridegroom,
and then it is from Himself that we hear of the bride, as the object of His love, and the delight
of His heart. The daughters of Jerusalem are the first speakers.

They themselves give the reply:--

          King Solomon made himself a car of state
          Of the wood of Lebanon.
          He made the pillars thereof of silver,
          The bottom thereof of gold, the seat of it of purple,
          The midst thereof being paved with love (love-gifts),
          From the daughters of Jerusalem.

In these verses the bride is not mentioned; she is eclipsed in the grandeur and the state of
her royal Bridegroom; nevertheless, she is both enjoying and sharing it. The very air is perfumed
by the smoke of the incense that ascends pillar-like to the clouds; and all that safeguards
the position of the Bridegroom Himself, and shows forth His dignity, safeguards also the accompanying
bride, the sharer of His glory. The car of state in which they sit is built of fragrant cedar
from Lebanon, and the finest of the gold and silver have been lavished in its construction.
The fragrant wood typifies the beauty of sanctified humanity, while the gold reminds us of
the divine glory of our LORD, and the silver of the purity and preciousness of His redeemed
and peerless Church. The imperial purple with which it is lined tells us of the Gentiles--the
daughter of Tyre has been there with her gift; while the love-gifts of the daughters of Jerusalem
accord with the prophecy, "Even the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour."

These are the things that attract the attention of the daughters of Jerusalem, but the bride
is occupied with the King Himself, and she exclaims:--

          Go forth, O ye daughters of Zion, and behold King
               Solomon,
          With the crown wherewith His mother hath crowned
               Him in the day of His espousals,
          And in the day of the gladness of His heart.

The crowned KING is everything to her, and she would have Him to be so
to the daughters of Zion likewise. She dwells with delight on the
gladness of His heart in the day of His espousals, for now she is not
occupied with Him for her own sake, but rejoices in His joy in finding
in her His satisfaction. Do we sufficiently cultivate this unselfish
desire to be all for JESUS, and to do all for His pleasure? Or are we
conscious that we principally go to Him for our own sakes, or at best
for the sake of our fellow-creatures? How much of prayer there is that
begins and ends with the creature, forgetful of the privilege of giving
joy to the Creator!
          Which are all of them in pairs,
          And none is bereaved among them.
          Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet,
          And thy speech is comely, etc. (See verses 3-5.)

We have already found the explanation of the fairness of the bride in her reflecting like a
mirror the beauty of the Bridegroom. Well may He with satisfaction describe her beauty while
she is thus occupied with Himself! The lips that speak only of Him are like a thread of scarlet;
the mouth or speech which has no word of self, or for self, is comely in His sight.

How sweet His words of appreciation and commendation were to the bride we can well imagine;
but her joy was too deep for expression; she was silent in her love. She would not now think
of sending Him away until the day be cool and the shadows flee away.

Still less does the Bridegroom think of finding His joy apart from His bride.

Separation never comes from His side. He is always ready for communion with a prepared heart,
and in this happy communion the bride becomes ever fairer, and more like to her LORD. She is
being progressively changed into His image, from one degree of glory to another, through the
wondrous working of the HOLY SPIRIT, until the Bridegroom can declare:--

          Thou art all fair, My love;
          And there is no spot on thee.

"Come with Me." It is always so. If our SAVIOUR says, "Go ye therefore and disciple all nations,"
He precedes it by, "All power is given unto Me," and follows it by, "Lo, I am with you always."
Or if, as here, He calls His bride to come, it is still "with Me," and it is in connection
with this loving invitation that for the first time He changes the word "My love," for the
still more endearing one, "My bride."

What are lions' dens when the Lion of the tribe of Judah is with us; or mountains of leopards,
when He is at our side! "I will fear no evil, for Thou art with me." On the other hand, it
is while thus facing dangers, and toiling with Him in service, that He says:--

          Thou hast ravished My heart, My sister, My bride;
          Thou hast ravished My heart with one look from thine eyes,
          With one chain of thy neck.

Is it not wonderful how the heart of our Beloved can be thus ravished with the love of one
who is prepared to accept His invitation, and go forth with Him seeking to rescue the perishing!
The marginal reading of the Revised Version is very significant: "Thou hast ravished My heart,"
or "Thou hast given me courage." If the Bridegroom's heart may be encouraged by the fidelity
and loving companionship of his bride, it is not surprising that we may cheer and encourage
one another in our mutual service. St. Paul had a steep mountain of difficulty to climb when
he was being led as a captive to Rome, not knowing the things that awaited him there; but when
the brethren met him at the Appii Forum he thanked God and took courage. May we ever thus strengthen
one another's hands in God!

But to resume. The Bridegroom cheers the toilsome ascents, and the steep pathways of danger,
with sweet communications of His love:--

          How fair is thy love, My sister, My bride!

Engaged with the Bridegroom in seeking to rescue the perishing, the utterances of her lips
are to Him as honey and the honeycomb; and figure is piled upon figure to express His satisfaction
and joy. She is a garden full of precious fruits and delightful perfumes, but a garden enclosed;
the fruit she bears may bring blessing to many, but the garden is for Himself alone; she is
a fountain, but a spring shut up, a fountain sealed.

The bride now speaks for the second time in this section. As her first
utterance was of Him, so now her second is for Him; self is found in
neither.
          Let my Beloved come into His garden,
          And eat His precious fruits. He has called her His garden, a paradise of
pomegranates and precious fruits; let Him come into it and eat His
precious fruits.

Now, when she calls, He answers at once. When she is only for her LORD, He assures her that
He finds all His satisfaction in her.

The section closes by the bride's invitation to His friends and hers, as well as to Himself:--

          Eat, O friends;
          Drink, yea, drink abundantly, O Beloved.

The consecration of all to our MASTER, far from lessening our power to impart, increases both
our power and our joy in ministration. The five loaves and two fishes of the disciples, first
given up to and blessed by the LORD, were abundant supply for the needy multitudes, and grew,
in the act of distribution, into a store of which twelve hampers full of fragments remained
when all were fully satisfied.

We have, then, in this beautiful section, as we have seen, a picture of unbroken communion
and its delightful issues. May our lives correspond! First, one with the KING, then speaking
of the KING; the joy of communion leading to fellowship in service, to a being all for JESUS,
ready for any experience that will fit for further service, surrendering all to Him, and willing
to minister all for Him. There is no room for love of the world here, for union with CHRIST
has filled the heart; there is nothing for the gratification of the world, for all has been
sealed and is kept for the MASTER'S use.

          JESUS, my life is Thine!
          And evermore shall be
              Hidden in Thee.
          For nothing can untwine
          Thy life from mine.

SECTION IV

COMMUNION AGAIN BROKEN--RESTORATION

Cant. v. 2-vi. 10

THE fourth section commences with an address of the bride to the daughters of Jerusalem, in
which she narrates her recent sad experience, and entreats their help in her trouble. The presence
and comfort of her Bridegroom are again lost to her; not this time by relapse into worldliness,
but by slothful self-indulgence.

We are not told of the steps that led to her failure; of how self again found place in her
heart. Perhaps spiritual pride in the achievements which grace enabled her to accomplish was
the cause; or, not improbably, a cherished satisfaction in the blessing she had received, instead
of in the BLESSER Himself, may have led to the separation. She seems to have been largely unconscious
of her declension; self-occupied and self-contented, she scarcely noticed His absence; she
was resting, resting alone,--never asking where He had gone, or how He was employed. And more
than this, the door of her chamber was not only closed, but barred; an evidence that His return
was neither eagerly desired nor expected.

Yet her heart was not far from Him: there was a music in His voice that awakened echoes in
her soul such as no other voice could have stirred. She was still "a garden shut up, a fountain
sealed," so far as the world was concerned. The snare this time was the more dangerous and
insidious because it was quite unsuspected. It is sad that He should be outside a closed door--that
He should need to knock; but still more sad that He should knock, and knock in vain at the
door of any heart which has become His own. In this case it is not the position of the bride
that is wrong; if it were, His word as before would be, "Arise, and come away"; whereas now
His word is, "Open to Me, My sister, My love." It was her condition of self-satisfaction and
love of ease that closed the door.

Very touching are His words: "Open to Me, My sister" (He is the first-born among many brethren),
"My love" (the object of My heart's devotion), "My dove" (one who has been endued with many
of the gifts and graces of the HOLY SPIRIT), "My undefiled" (washed, renewed, and cleansed
for Me); and He urges her to open by reference to His own condition:--

          My head is filled with dew,
          My locks with the drops of the night.

Why is it that His head is filled with the dew? Because His heart is a shepherd-heart. There
are those whom the FATHER has given to Him who are wandering on the dark mountains of sin:
many, oh, how many, have never heard the SHEPHERD'S voice; many, too, who were once in the
fold have wandered away--far away from its safe shelter. The heart that never can forget, the
love that never can fail, must seek the wandering sheep until the lost one has been found:
"My FATHER worketh hitherto, and I work." And will she, who so recently was at His side, who
joyfully braved the dens of lions and the mountains of leopards, will she leave Him to seek
alone the wandering and the lost?

We do not know a more touching entreaty in the Word of GOD, and sad indeed is the reply of
the bride:--

          I have put off my coat; how shall I put it on?
          I have washed my feet; how shall I defile them?

How sadly possible it is to take delight in conferences and conventions, to feast on all the
good things that are brought before us, and yet to be unprepared to go out from them to self-denying
efforts to rescue the perishing; to delight in the rest of faith while forgetful to fight the
good fight of faith; to dwell upon the cleansing and the purity effected by faith, but to have
little thought for the poor souls struggling in the mire of sin. If we can put off our coat
when He would have us keep it on; if we can wash our feet while He is wandering alone upon
the mountains, is there not sad want of fellowship with our LORD?

Meeting with no response from the tardy bride, her

          Beloved put in His hand by the hole of the door,
          And "her" heart was moved for Him.

But, alas, the door was not only latched, but barred; and His effort to secure an entrance
was in vain.

          I rose up to open to my Beloved;
          And my hands dropped with myrrh,
          And my fingers with liquid myrrh,
          Upon the handles of the bolt.
          I opened to my Beloved;
          But my Beloved had withdrawn Himself, and was gone.
          My soul had failed me when He spake.

When, all too late, the bride did arise, she seems to have been more concerned to anoint herself
with the liquid myrrh than to speedily welcome her waiting LORD; more occupied with her own
graces than with His desire. No words of welcome were uttered, though her heart failed within
her; and the grieved One had withdrawn Himself before she was ready to receive Him. Again (as
in the third chapter) she had to go forth alone to seek her LORD; and this time her experiences
were much more painful than on the former occasion.

          I sought Him, but I could not find Him;
          I called Him, but He gave me no answer.
          The watchmen that go about the city found me,
          They smote me, they wounded me;
          The keepers of the walls took away my mantle from me.

Her first relapse had been one of inexperience; if a second relapse had
been brought about by inadvertence she should at least have been ready
and prompt when summoned to obey.
          I also will laugh in the day of your calamity. . . .
          Then shall they call upon Me, but I will not answer;
          They shall seek Me diligently, but they shall not find Me.

The backsliding of the bride, though painful, was not final; for it was followed by true repentance.
She went forth into the darkness and sought Him; she called, but He responded not, and the
watchmen finding her, both smote and wounded her. They appear to have appreciated the gravity
of her declension more correctly than she had done. Believers may be blinded to their own inconsistencies;
others, however, note them; and the higher the position with regard to our LORD the more surely
will any failure be visited with reproach.

Wounded, dishonoured, unsuccessful in her search, and almost in despair, the bride turns to
the daughters of Jerusalem; and recounting the story of her sorrows, adjures them to tell her
Beloved that she is not unfaithful or unmindful of Him.

The reply of the daughters of Jerusalem shows very clearly that the sorrow-stricken bride,
wandering in the dark, is not recognized as the bride of the KING, though her personal beauty
does not escape notice.

          What is thy Beloved more than another beloved,
          O thou fairest among women?
          What is thy Beloved more than another beloved,
          That thou dost so adjure us?

This question, implying that her Beloved was no more than any other, stirs her soul to its
deepest depths; and, forgetting herself, she pours out from the fulness of her heart a soul-ravishing
description of the glory and beauty of her LORD.

          My Beloved is white and ruddy,
          The chiefest among ten thousand.

It is interesting to compare the bride's description of the Bridegroom with the descriptions
of "the Ancient of Days" in Dan. vii. 9, 10, and of our risen LORD in Rev. i. 13-16. The differences
are very characteristic. The Son of Man was brought near before Him, and received from Him
dominion, and glory, and an everlasting kingdom that shall not be destroyed. In Rev. i. we
see the Son of Man Himself clothed with a garment down to the foot, and His head and His hair
were white as wool, white as snow; but the bride sees her Bridegroom in all the vigour of youth,
with locks "bushy, and black as a raven." The eyes of the risen SAVIOUR are described as "a
flame of fire," but His bride sees them "like doves beside the water brooks." In Revelation
"His voice is as the voice of many waters . . . and out of His mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged
sword." To the bride, His lips are as lilies, dropping liquid myrrh, and His mouth most sweet.
The countenance of the risen SAVIOUR was "as the sun shineth in his strength," and the effect
of the vision on John--"when I saw Him, I fell at His feet as one dead"--was not unlike the
effect of the vision given to Saul as he neared Damascus. But to His bride "His aspect is like
Lebanon, excellent as the cedars." The LION of the tribe of Judah is to His own bride the KING
of love; and, with full heart and beaming face, she so recounts His beauties that the daughters
of Jerusalem are seized with strong desire to seek Him with her, that they also may behold
His beauty.

          Whither is thy Beloved gone,
          O thou fairest among women?
          Whither hath thy Beloved turned Him,
          That we may seek Him with thee?

Forlorn and desolate as she might appear she still knows herself as the object of His affections,
and claims Him as her own. This expression, "I am my Beloved's, and my Beloved is mine," is
similar to that found in the second chapter, "My Beloved is mine, and I am His"; and yet with
noteworthy difference. Then her first thought of CHRIST was of her claim upon Him: His claim
upon her was secondary. Now she thinks first of His claim; and only afterwards mentions her
own. We see a still further development of grace in chap. vii. 10, where the bride, losing
sight of her claim altogether, says:--

          I am my Beloved's,
          And His desire is toward me.

No sooner has she uttered these words and acknowledged herself as His rightful possession--a
claim which she had practically repudiated when she kept Him barred out--than her Bridegroom
Himself appears; and with no upbraiding word, but in tenderest love, tells her how beautiful
she is in His eyes, and speaks her praise to the daughters of Jerusalem.

To her He says:--

          Thou art beautiful, O My love, as Tirzah,
              [the beautiful city of Samaria,]
          Comely as Jerusalem,
              [the glorious city of the great KING,]
          Terrible [or rather brilliant] as an army with banners.
          Turn away thine eyes from Me,
          For they have overcome Me. (See vv. 4-7.)

Then, turning to the daughters of Jerusalem, He exclaims:--

