Suffering?  Yes, of course I have seen boys wounded, as I have said, but for real downright
suffering, loneliness is worst, and it lies entirely within the province of the folks at home
to alleviate this suffering.  I have seen a boy morose and surly, discouraged and grouchy in
the morning.  He didn't know what was the matter with himself.  In the afternoon I have seen
him laughing and yelling like a wild animal at play, happy as a lark.

What was the difference?  He had gotten a letter.

Then there is the Silhouette of Physical Suffering.  Hundreds of these sombre silhouettes stand
out against a lurid background of fire and blood.  One only I quote because it has a fringe
of hope.

The boy's back was broken.  It had been broken by a shell concussion. There were no visible
signs of a wound on his body anywhere, the doctors told me in the hospital.  He did not know
it as yet.  He thought it was his leg that was hurt.  They asked me to tell him, as gently
as I could.  It was a hard task to give a man.

He was lying on a raised bed so that, when I went up to it, it came up to my neck almost, and
when I talked with the lad I could look straight into his eyes.  Those eyes I shall never forget,
they were so fearless, so brave, and yet so full of weariness and suffering.

I took his hand and said: "Boy, I am a preacher."  For once I didn't say anything about being
a secretary.  I just told him I was a preacher.

He said: "I am so glad you have come.  I just wanted to see a real, honest-to-goodness preacher."
He forced a smile to accompany this sentence.

"Well, I'm all of that, and proud of it," I replied, smiling back into his brave eyes.

"I'm so tired.  I try to be brave, but I've been lying here for three months now, and my leg
doesn't seem to get any better.  It pains all the time until I think I'll die with the agony
of it.  I never sleep only when they give me something.  But I try hard to be brave."

"You are brave!" I said to him.  "They all tell me that, the doctors and nurses."

"They are so good to me." he said in low tones so that I had to bend to hear them.  "But my
leg; they don't seem to be able to help me."

Then I told him as gently as I could that it was not his leg, that it was his back, and that
he would likely not get well.  Then I tried to tell him of the room in his Father's house that
was ready for him when he was ready to accept it, and of what a glorious welcome there was there.

He reached out for my hand in the semi-darkness of that evening.  I can feel his hand-clasp
yet.  I didn't know what to say, but a phrase that had lingered in my mind from an old story
came to the rescue.

"Don't you want the Christ to help you bear your pain?" I asked him.

"That is just what I do want," he said simply.  "That was why I was so glad you came--an honest-to-goodness
preacher," and he smiled again, so bravely, in spite of his suffering, and in spite of the
news that I had just broken to him.

Then we prayed.  I stood beside his bed holding his hand and praying. The room was full of
other wounded boys, but in the twilight I doubt if a lad there knew what we were doing.  I
spoke low, just so he could hear, and the Master knew what was in my heart without hearing.

When I was through I felt a pressure of his hand, and he said: "Now I feel stronger.  He is
helping me bear my burden.  Thank you for coming, and"--then he paused for words "and--thank
you for bringing Him."

Yes, there is suffering in France, suffering among our soldiers, too, but suffering that is
glorified by courage.

X

SOLDIER SILHOUETTES

One night down near the front lines as we drove the great truck slowly over the icy roads,
on the top of a little knoll stood a lone sentinel against a background of snow, and that is
a silhouette that I shall never forget.

Another night there was a beautiful afterglow, and being a lover of the beautiful as well as
a driver of a truck, I was lost in the wonder of the crimson flush against the western hills.

"Makes me homesick," said the big man beside me, whose home is in the West.  "Looks for all
the world like one of our Arizona afterglows."

"It is beautiful," I replied, and then we were both lost in silent appreciation of the scene
before us, when suddenly we were startled witless.

"Halt!" rang out through the semi-darkness.  "Who goes there?"

"Y. M. C. A." we shot back as quick as lightning, for we had learned that it doesn't pay to
waste time in answering a sentinel's challenge down within sound of the German guns.

"Pass on, friends," was the grinning reply.  That rascal of a sentry had caught us unawares,
lost in the afterglow, and he was tickled over having startled us into astonishment.

But even though he did give us a scare, I am sure that the picture of him standing there in
the middle of that French road, with his gun raised against the afterglow, will be one of the
outstanding silhouettes of the memories of France.

Then there was the old Scotch dominie down at Château-Thierry, with the marines.  The boys
called him "Doc," and loved him, for he had been with them for eight months.

One night, in the midst of the hottest fighting in June, the old secretary thought he would
go out in the night and see how the boys were getting along.  He walked cautiously along the
edge of the woods when suddenly the word "Halt!" shot out in low but distinct tones.

"Who goes there?"

"A friend," the secretary replied.

"Oh, it's you, is it, Doc?  Gee, I'm glad to see you!  This is a darned weird place to-night.
Every time the wind blows I think it's a Boche."

There was a slight noise out in No Man's Land.  "What's that, Doc, a Boche?"

"I think not."

"You can't tell, Doc; they're everywhere.  If I've seen one, I've seen ten thousand to-night
on this watch."

That old gray-haired secretary will never forget that night when he walked among the men in
the trenches with his little gifts and his word of cheer, that memorable night before the Americans
made themselves heroes forever in the Bois du Belleau.  He will never forget the sound of that
boy sentry's voice when he said, "Gee, Doc, I'm glad it's you"; nor will he forget the looks
of the boy as he stood there in the darkness, the guardian of America's hopes and homes, nor
will he forget the firm, warm clasp of the lad's hands as he walked away to greet others of
his comrades.

These are Soldier Silhouettes that remain vivid until time dies, until the "springs of the
seas run dust," as Markham says:

  "Forget it not 'til the crowns are crumbled;
    'Til the swords of the Kings are rent with rust;
  Forget it not 'til the hills lie humbled;
    And the springs of the seas run dust."

No, we do not forget scenes and moments like these in our lives.

Then there is the silhouette of the profile of the captain of a certain American machine-gun
company who, in March, marched with his men into the Somme line.  He was an old football-player
back in the States, and we were having a last dinner together in Paris, a group of college
men. After dinner, when we had finished discussing the dangers of the coming weeks, and he
had told us that his major had said to him, "If fifteen per cent of us come out alive, I shall
be glad," and after we had drifted back to the old college days, and home and babies, and after
he had shown us a picture of his wife and his kiddies, it became strangely quiet in the room,
and suddenly he turned his face from us, with just the profile showing against the light of
the window, and exclaimed: "My God, fellows, for a half-hour you have made me forget that there
is a war, and I have been back on the old campus again playing football, and back with my babies."

Then his jaw set, and I shall never forget the profile of his face as that set look came back
and once again he became the captain of a machine-gun company.

Then there was the lone church service that my friend Clarke held one evening at a crossroads
of France.  He had held seven services that Sunday, one in a machine-gun company's dugout,
with six men; another with a group of a dozen men in a front-line trench; another with several
officers in an officers' dugout; another with a battery outfit who were "On Call," expecting
orders to send over a few shells; another with several men out in No Man's Land, on the sunny
side of an old upturned mass of tree roots; one in a listening-post, and finally this service
with a lone sentry at a crossroads.

"But how did you do it?" I asked.

"I just saw him there," Clarke replied, "and he looked lonely, and I walked up and said: 'How'd
you like to have me read a little out of the Book?'

"'Fine!' he said.

"Then I prayed with him, standing there at the crossroads, and I asked him if he didn't want
to pray.  He was a church boy back home, and he prayed as fine a prayer as ever I heard.  Then
we sang a hymn together. It was 'Jesus, Lover of My Soul,' and neither of us can sing much,
but as I look back on it, it was the sweetest music that I ever had a part in making.  The
only thing I didn't do was take up a collection. Outside of that, it was just as if we had
gone through a regular church service at home.  I even preached a little to him.  No, not just
preached, but talked to him about the Master."

"Did you even go so far with your lone one-man congregation as to have a benediction?" I asked him.

"No, I just said what was in my heart when we were through, 'God bless and keep you, boy,'
and went on."

"I never heard a finer benediction than that, old man," I replied with feeling.

And the silhouette of that one Y. M. C. A. secretary holding a religious service with a lone
sentry of a Sunday evening, bringing back to the lad's memory sacred things of home and church
and the Christ, giving him a new hold on the bigger, better things, bringing the Christ out
to him there on that road, that silhouette is mine to keep forever close to my heart.  I shall
see that and shall smile in my soul over it when eternity calls, and shall thank God for its
sweetening influence in my life.

And so this comfort may come to the mothers and fathers of America, that through the various
agencies of the American army, through General Pershing's intense interest in righteous things,
through that Lincoln-like Christian leader of the chaplains, Bishop Brent, through the Y. M.
C. A., and the Salvation Army, and the Knights of Columbus, your boy has his chance, whatever
creed, or race, or church, to worship his God as he wishes; and not one misses this opportunity,
even the lonely sentinel on the road.  And the glorious thing about it is that boys who never
before thought of going to church at home, crowd the huts on Sundays and for the good-night
prayers on week-days.

Just before the battle of Château-Thierry, "Doc," of whom I have spoken in this chapter before,
said: "Boys, do you want a communion service?"

"Yes," they shouted.

Knowing that there were Catholics and Jews and Protestants and non-believers there, he said:
"Now, anybody who doesn't want to take communion may leave."

Not a single man left.  Out of one hundred or more men only two did not kneel to take of the
sacred bread and wine.  Two Jews knelt with the others, several Roman Catholics, and men of
all Protestant denominations.  Half of them were dead before another sunrise came around, but
they had had their service.

Every man has his opportunity to worship God in his own way and as nearly as possible at his
own altars in France.  There was the story of "The Rosary."

It was Hospital Hut Number ----, and half a thousand boys from the front, wounded in every
conceivable way, were sitting there in the hut in a Sunday-evening service.  Many of them had
crutches beside them; others canes.  Some of them, had their heads bandaged; others of them
carried their arms in slings.  Some of them had lost legs, and some of them had no arms left.
Their eager faces were lighted with a strange light, such as is not seen on land or sea, and
on most of those faces, unashamed, ran over pale cheeks the tears of homesickness as the young
corporal whom I had taken with me from another town sang "The Rosary." I have never heard it
sung with more tenderness, nor have I heard it sung in more beautiful voice.  That young lad
was singing his heart out to those other boys.  He had not been up front himself as yet, for
he was in a base port attending to his duties, which were just as important as those up front,
but it was hard for him to see it that way.  So he loved and respected these other lads who
had, to his way of thinking, been more fortunate than he, because they had seen actual fighting.
He respected them because of their wounds, and he wanted to help them.  So he lifted that rich,
sweet, sympathetic tenor voice until the great hut rang with the old, old song, and hearts
were melted everywhere.  I saw, back in the audience, a group of nurses with bowed heads. 
They knew what the rosary meant to those who suffer and die in the Catholic faith.  They, too,
had memories of that beautiful song.  A group of officers, including a major, all wounded,
listened with heads bowed.

As I sat on the crude stage and saw the effects of his magical voice on this crowd I got to
thinking of what this war is meaning to that fine understanding of those who count the beads
of the rosary and those who do not.  I had seen so many examples of fine fraternal fellowship
between Catholic and Protestant that I felt that I ought to put it down in some permanent form.

There is a true story of one of our Y. M. C. A. secretaries who was called to the bedside of
a dying Catholic boy.  There was no priest available, and the boy wanted a rosary so badly.
In his half-delirium he begged for a rosary.  This young Protestant Y. M. C. A. secretary started
out for a French village, five miles away, on foot, to try to find a rosary for this sick Catholic
boy, and after several hours' search he found a peasant woman whom he made understand the emergency
of the situation, and he got the loan of the rosary and took it back through five miles of
mud to the bedside of that Catholic lad, and comforted him with the feel of it in his fevered
hands and the hope of it in his fevered soul.  When I heard this story it stirred me to the
very fountain depths, but I have seen so much of this fine spirit of service in the Y. M. C.
A. since then that I have come to know that as far as the Y. M. C. A. is concerned all barriers
of church narrowness are entirely swept away.

I have had most delightful comradeship since I have been in France in one great area as religious
director with two Knights of Columbus secretaries and one father--Chaplain Davis--all of whom
say freely and eagerly: "We have never had anything but the finest spirit of co-operation and
friendship from the Y. M. C. A."

"Why," added Chaplain Davis, a Catholic priest, "why, the first Sunday I was here, when I had
no place to take my boys for mass, a secretary came to me and offered me the hut.  It has always
been that way."

The story of the French priest who confessed a dying Catholic boy through a Y. M. C. A. Protestant
secretary interpreter, in a Y. M. C. A. hut, has been told far and wide, but it is only illustrative
of the broadening lines of Catholicism and the wider fraternal relations of all professed Christians.

The marvellous story that my friend, the French chaplain, tells of being marooned in a shell-hole
at Verdun for several days with a Catholic priest, and of their discussion of religion and
life there under shell-fire, and the tenderness with which the Catholic priest kissed the hand
of the Protestant French chaplain when the two had agreed that, after all, there was one common
God for a common, suffering nation of people, and that this war would break all church barriers
down, and that out of it would come a new spirit in the Catholic church, a new brotherhood
for all.  That was an impressive indication of the thing that is sweeping France to-day in
church circles, and that will sweep America after the war.

Then there is that other story of the Catholic priest who had been in the same regiment with
a French Protestant chaplain, each of whom deeply respected the other because of the unflinching
bravery that each had displayed under intense shell-fire, and of the great love that each had
seen the other show in two years of constant warfare in the same regiment.  Then came that
terrible morning at Verdun, when the French Protestant chaplain, the friend of the Catholic
priest, had been killed while trying to bring in a wounded Catholic boy from No Man's Land.
On the day of this Protestant chaplain's funeral the Catholic priest stood in God's Acre with
bared head, and spoke as tender and as sincere a eulogy as ever a man spoke over the grave
of a dear friend, spoke with the tears in his eyes most of the time.  Church lines were forgotten
here.  It was a prophetic scene, this, where a Catholic priest spoke at the funeral of a Protestant
chaplain.  It was prophetic of that new church brotherhood that is to come after the war is over.

XI

SKY SILHOUETTES

They are the lights, the lights of war.  Sometimes they are just the stars shining out that
makes the wounded soldier out in No Man's Land look up, in spite of shell-fire and thunder,
in spite of wounds and death, in spite of loneliness and heartache, in spite of mud and rain,
to exclaim, as Donald Hankey tells us in a most wonderful chapter of "A Student in Arms": "God!
God everywhere, and underneath are the everlasting arms!"

Sometimes the Sky Silhouettes number among their own just a moonlight night with a crescent
moon sailing quietly and serenely over the horizon in the east, while great guns belch fire
in the west, a fire that seems to shame the timid moon itself.

Sometimes they are search-lights cleaving the sky over a great city like Paris, or along the
front lines, or gleaming from an air-ship.

Sometimes they are signal-lights flashing out of the darkness from a patrolling plane overhead,
or a blazing trail of fire as a patrol falls to its death in a battle by night.

Sometimes they are signal-lights flashing from an observation balloon anchored in the darkness
over the trenches to guard the troops from dangers in the air.

Sometimes they are the flashes, the fleet, swallow-like flashes, of an enemy plane caught in
the burning, blazing path of a search-light, and then hounded by it to its death.

Sometimes they are signals flashed from the top of a cruiser on the high seas across the storm-tossed
waters to a little destroyer, which flashes back its answer, and then in turn flashes a message
of light to one of the convoying planes overhead in the dim dusk of early evening.

Sometimes these Sky Silhouettes are the range-finders that poise in the air for a few seconds,
guiding the air patrols home, and sometimes they are just the varied, interesting, gleaming,
flashing "Lights of War."

XII

THE LIGHTS OF WAR

One's introduction into the war zone and into war-zone cities and villages, and one's visits
"down the line" to the front by night, will always be filled with the thrill of the unusual
because of the Lights of War.  Where lights used to be, there are no lights now, and where
they were not seen before the war, they are radiant and rampant now.

The first place that an American traveller notices this absence of lights is on the boat crossing
over the Atlantic.  From the first night out of New York the boats travel without a single
light showing.  Every light inside of the boat is covered with a heavy black crape, and the
port-holes and windows are so scrupulously and carefully chained down that the average open-air
fiend from California or elsewhere feels that he will suffocate before morning comes, and even
in the bitterest of winter weather I have known some fresh-air fiends to prefer the deck of
the ship, with all of its bitter winds and cold, to the inside of a cabin with no windows open.
I stood on the deck of an ocean liner "Somewhere on the Atlantic" a few months ago as the great
ship was ploughing its zigzag course through the black waters, dodging submarines.  There was
not a star in the sky.  There was not a light on the boat.  Absolutely the only lights that
one saw was when he leaned over the railing and saw the splash of innumerable phosphorescent
organisms breaking against the boat.  I have seen the like of it only once before, and this
was on the Pacific down at Asilomar one evening, when the waves were running fire with phosphorescence.
It was a beautiful sight there and on the Atlantic too.

IT WAS MIDNIGHT

On this particular night, as far as one could see, this brilliant organic light illuminated
the sea like the hands of my luminous wrist-watch were made brilliant by phosphorescence. 
I noticed this and looked down at my watch to see what time it was.  It was midnight.

As I looked, my friend, who was standing beside me on the deck, said: "The last order is that
no wrist-watches that are luminous may be exposed on the decks at night.  That order came along
with the order forbidding smoking on the decks at night.  The Germans can sight the light of
a cigar a long distance through their periscopes."

I smiled to myself, for it was my first introduction to the romantic part that lights and the
lack o' lights is playing in this great World War.  Then my friend continued his observations
as we stood there on the aft deck watching the white waves break, glorious with phosphorescence.
He said: "What a topsyturvy world it is.  Three years ago if a great ship like this had dared
to cross the Atlantic without a single light showing, it would have horrified the entire world,
and that ship captain would have been called to trial by every country that sails the seas.
He would have been adjudged insane.  But now every ship sails the seas with no navigation-lights
showing."

IN WAR COUNTRY

But when one gets his real introduction into the lights o' war is when he gets into the war
country.  It is eight o'clock in a great French city.  This French city has been known the
world over for its brilliant lights.  It has been known for its gayly lighted boulevards, and
indeed this might apply to one of three or four French cities.  Light was the one scintillating
characteristic of this great city.  The first night that one finds himself here he feels as
though he were wandering about in a country village at home.  No arc-lights shine.  The window-lights
are all extinguished.  The few lights on the great boulevards are so dimmed that their luminosity
is about that of a healthy firefly in June back home.  One gropes his way about, feeling ahead
of him and navigating cautiously, even the main boulevards.

The first time I walked down the streets of this great city at night I had the same feeling
that I had on the Atlantic.  I was sailing without lights, on an unknown course, and I felt
every minute that I would bump into some unseen human craft, as indeed I did, both a feminine
craft and a male craft.  I also had the feeling that in this particular city, in the darkness
I might be submarined by a city human U-boat, which would slip up behind me.  After having
my second trip here I still have that feeling as I walk the streets; the unlighted streets
of this city, and especially the side-streets, by night.

FRENCH CITY DURING RAID

But the one time when you catch the very heart and soul of the lights o' war is when you happen
to drop into a French city while the Boches are making a raid overhead.  I have had this experience
in towns and villages and cities.  At the signal of the siren the lights of the entire city
suddenly snuff out, and the city or town or village is in total darkness.  Candles may be lighted
and are lighted, but on the whole one either walks the dark streets flashing his electric "Ever
Ready," or huddled up in a subway or in a cellar, or in a hallway listening to the barrage
of defense guns and to the bombs dropping, watches and listens and waits in total darkness,
and while he waits he isn't certain half the time whether the noise he hears is the dropping
of German bombs or the beating of his own heart.  Both make entirely too much noise for peace
and comfort.

As one approaches the front-line cities and towns he learns something more about the lights
o' war.  It is dark.  He is in a little town and must go to another town nearer the front lines.
He is standing at the depot (gare).  No lights are visible save here and there an absolutely
necessary red or green light, which is veiled dimly.  His train pulls silently in.  There is
not a single light on it from one end to the other.  It creeps in like a great snake.  There
is nobody to tell you whether this is your train or not, but you take a chance and climb into
a compartment which is pitch-dark.

HEARS AMERICAN VOICE

You have a ticket that calls for first-class military compartment, but you climbed into the
first open door you saw, and didn't know and didn't care whether it was first, second, third,
or tenth class just so you got on your way.  Your eyes soon became accustomed to the darkness
and you discerned two or three forms in the seat opposite you.  You wondered if they were French,
Italians, Belgians, English, Australians, Canadians, Moroccans, Algerians, or Americans.  It
was too dark to see, but suddenly you heard a familiar voice saying, "Gosh, I wish I was back
in little ole New York," and you made a grab in the darkness for that lad's hand.

All during your trip no trainman appears.  You are left to your own sweet will at nights in
the war zone when you are on a train.  No stations are announced.  You are supposed to have
sense enough to know where you are going, and to have gumption enough to get off without either
being assisted or told to do so.  The assumption, I suppose, is that anybody who travels in
the war zone knows where he is going. Personally, I felt like the American phrase, "I don't
know where I'm going but I'm on the way," and I tried to jump off at two or three towns before
I got to my own destination, but the American soldiers had been that way before on their way
to the trenches, and wouldn't let me off at the wrong place.  I thought surely that somebody
would come along to take my ticket, but nobody appeared.  I soon found that night trains "on
the line" pay little attention to such minor matters as tickets, and I have a pocketful that
have never been taken up.  Time after time I have piled into a train at night, after buying
a ticket to my destination; have journeyed to my destination, have gone through the depot and
to my hotel without ever seeing a trainman to take the ticket.  I was let severely alone. 
And even if a conductor had come along through the train it would have been too dark for him
to have seen me, and I am sure I could have dodged him had I so desired.  Maybe that's the
reason they don't take the tickets up.  Anyhow, I have given you a picture of a great train
in the war zone, winding its way toward the front, in complete darkness.

FLASH-LIGHTS

Flash-lights have come into their own in this war.  One would as soon think of living without
a flash-light as he would think of travelling without clothes in Greenland.  It simply cannot
be done.  In any city, from Paris to the smallest towns on the front, one must have his flash-light.
The streets of the cities and towns of France are a hundred times more crooked than those of
Boston.  If Boston's streets followed the cow-paths, the streets of the cities of France followed
cows with the St. Vitus dance.  Around these streets one had to find his way by night with
a flash-light, especially during an air-raid. One must have a flash, too, for the houses and
hotels when an air-raid is on, and one must have it when one is driving a big truck or an automobile
down along the front lines, for no lights are permitted on any machines, official or otherwise,
after a certain point is reached. One of the favorite outdoor sports of this preacher for a
month was to lie on his stomach on the front mud-guard of a big Pierce-Arrow through the war-zone
roads, bumping over shell-holes, with a little pocket flash-light playing on the ground, searching
out the shell-holes, and trying to help the driver keep in the road.  It is a delightful occupation
about two o'clock in the morning, with a blizzard blowing, and knowing that the big truck is
rumbling along within sight and sound of the German big guns.  Trucks make more noise on such
occasions than a Twentieth Century Limited.  "No lights beyond divisional headquarters" was
the order, and night after night we travelled along these roads with only an occasional flash
of the Ever Ready to guide. And so it is that the flash-light has come to its own, and every
private soldier, officer, and citizen in France is equipped with one. He would be like a swordfish
without its sword if he didn't have it.

LADDER OF LIGHT

Then suddenly you see a strange finger of light reaching into the sky. Or you may liken it
to a ladder of light climbing the sky.  Or you may liken it to a lance of light piercing the
darkness.  Or you may just call it a good, old-fashioned search-light, which it is.  It is
watching for Hun planes, and it plays all night long from north to south, from east to west,
restlessly, eagerly, quickly, like a "hound of the heavens" guarding the earth.  First it sweeps
the horizon, and then it suddenly shoots straight up into the zenith like another sun, and
it seems to flood the very skies.  No German plane can cut through that path of light without
being seen, and one night I had the rare privilege of seeing a plane caught by the search-light
on its ever-vigilant patrol.  It was a thrilling sight.  One minute later the anti-aircraft
guns were thundering away and the shrapnel was breaking in tiny patches around this plane while
the search-lights played on both the plane and the shrapnel patches of smoke against the sky,
making a wonderful picture.  Military writers say that the enemy planes are more afraid of
these search-lights than of the guns.

But perhaps the most thrilling sight of all is that dark night when one sees for the first
time the star-shells along the horizon.  At first you may see them ten miles away making luminous
the earth.  Then as you drive nearer and nearer, that far-off heat-lightning effect disappears
and you can actually see the curve of the star-shells as they mount toward the skies over No
Man's Land and fall again as gracefully as a fountain of water.  Sometimes you will see them
for miles along the front, making night day and lighting up the fields and surrounding hills
as though for a great celebration.

BURSTING BOMBS

