The Cardinal met him at the corner of the field, and hopped over bushes and the fence only
a few yards from him.  When Abram had scattered his store on the rail, the bird came tipping
and tilting, daintily caught up a crumb, and carried it to the sumac.  His mate was pleased
to take it; and he carried her one morsel after another until she refused to open her beak
for more.  He made a light supper himself; and then swinging on the grape-vine, he closed the
day with an hour of music. He repeatedly turned a bright questioning eye toward Abram, but
he never for a moment lost sight of the nest and the plump gray figure of his little mate.
As she brooded over her eggs, he brooded over her; and that she might realize the depth and
constancy of his devotion, he told her repeatedly, with every tender inflection he could throw
into his tones, that she was "So dear! So dear!"

The Cardinal had not known that the coming of the mate he so coveted would fill his life with
such unceasing gladness, and yet, on the very day that happiness seemed at fullest measure,
there was trouble in the sumac.  He had overstayed his time, chasing a fat moth he particularly
wanted for his mate, and she, growing thirsty past endurance, left the nest and went to the
river.  Seeing her there, he made all possible haste to take his turn at brooding, so he arrived
just in time to see a pilfering red squirrel starting away with an egg.

With a vicious scream the Cardinal struck him full force.  His rush of rage cost the squirrel
an eye; but it lost the father a birdling, for the squirrel dropped the egg outside the nest.
The Cardinal mournfully carried away the tell-tale bits of shell, so that any one seeing them
would not look up and discover his treasures.  That left three eggs; and the brooding bird
mourned over the lost one so pitifully that the Cardinal perched close to the nest the remainder
of the day, and whispered over and over for her comfort that she was "So dear! So dear!"

Chapter 5

"See here! See here!" demanded the Cardinal

The mandate repeatedly rang from the topmost twig of the thorn tree, and yet the Cardinal was
not in earnest.  He was beside himself with a new and delightful excitement, and he found it
impossible to refrain from giving vent to his feelings.  He was commanding the farmer and every
furred and feathered denizen of the river bottom to see; then he fought like a wild thing if
any of them ventured close, for great things were happening in the sumac.

In past days the Cardinal had brooded an hour every morning while his mate went to take her
exercise, bathe, and fluff in the sun parlour. He had gone to her that morning as usual, and
she looked at him with anxious eyes and refused to move.  He had hopped to the very edge of
the nest and repeatedly urged her to go.  She only ruffled her feathers, and nestled the eggs
she was brooding to turn them, but did not offer to leave.  The Cardinal reached over and gently
nudged her with his beak, to remind her that it was his time to brood; but she looked at him
almost savagely, and gave him a sharp peck; so he knew she was not to be bothered.  He carried
her every dainty he could find and hovered near her, tense with anxiety.

It was late in the afternoon before she went after the drink for which she was half famished.
She scarcely had reached a willow and bent over the water before the Cardinal was on the edge
of the nest.  He examined it closely, but he could see no change.  He leaned to give the eggs
careful scrutiny, and from somewhere there came to him the faintest little "Chip!" he ever
had heard.  Up went the Cardinal's crest, and he dashed to the willow.  There was no danger
in sight; and his mate was greedily dipping her rosy beak in the water.  He went back to the
cradle and listened intently, and again that feeble cry came to him. Under the nest, around
it, and all through the sumac he searched, until at last, completely baffled, he came back
to the edge.  The sound was so much plainer there, that he suddenly leaned, caressing the eggs
with his beak; then the Cardinal knew!  He had heard the first faint cries of his shell-incased
babies!

With a wild scream he made a flying leap through the air.  His heart was beating to suffocation.
He started in a race down the river.  If he alighted on a bush he took only one swing, and
springing from it flamed on in headlong flight.  He flashed to the top of the tallest tulip
tree, and cried cloudward to the lark: "See here! See here!"  He dashed to the river bank and
told the killdeers, and then visited the underbrush and informed the thrushes and wood robins.
Father-tender, he grew so delirious with joy that he forgot his habitual aloofness, and fraternized
with every bird beside the shining river.  He even laid aside his customary caution, went chipping
into the sumac, and caressed his mate so boisterously she gazed at him severely and gave his
wing a savage pull to recall him to his sober senses.

That night the Cardinal slept in the sumac, very close to his mate, and he shut only one eye
at a time.  Early in the morning, when he carried her the first food, he found that she was
on the edge of the nest, dropping bits of shell outside; and creeping to peep, he saw the tiniest
coral baby, with closed eyes, and little patches of soft silky down.  Its beak was wide open,
and though his heart was even fuller than on the previous day, the Cardinal knew what that
meant; and instead of indulging in another celebration, he assumed the duties of paternity,
and began searching for food, for now there were two empty crops in his family.  On the following
day there were four.  Then he really worked.  How eagerly he searched, and how gladly he flew
to the sumac with every rare morsel!  The babies were too small for the mother to leave; and
for the first few days the Cardinal was constantly on wing.

If he could not find sufficiently dainty food for them in the trees and bushes, or among the
offerings of the farmer, he descended to earth and searched like a wood robin.  He forgot he
needed a bath or owned a sun parlour; but everywhere he went, from his full heart there constantly
burst the cry:

"See here! See here!"

His mate made never a sound.  Her eyes were bigger and softer than ever, and in them glowed
a steady lovelight.  She hovered over those three red mites of nestlings so tenderly!  She
was so absorbed in feeding, stroking, and coddling them she neglected herself until she became
quite lean.

When the Cardinal came every few minutes with food, she was a picture of love and gratitude
for his devoted attention, and once she reached over and softly kissed his wing.  "See here!
See here!" shrilled the Cardinal; and in his ecstasy he again forgot himself and sang in the
sumac.  Then he carried food with greater activity than ever to cover his lapse.

The farmer knew that it lacked an hour of noon, but he was so anxious to tell Maria the news
that he could not endure the suspense another minute.  There was a new song from the sumac.
He had heard it as he turned the first corner with the shovel plow. He had listened eagerly,
and had caught the meaning almost at once--"See here! See here!"  He tied the old gray mare
to the fence to prevent her eating the young corn, and went immediately.  By leaning a rail
against the thorn tree he was able to peer into the sumac, and take a good look at the nest
of handsome birdlings, now well screened with the umbrella-like foliage. It seemed to Abram
that he never could wait until noon.  He critically examined the harness, in the hope that
he would find a buckle missing, and tried to discover a flaw in the plow that would send him
to the barn for a file; but he could not invent an excuse for going.  So, when he had waited
until an hour of noon, he could endure it no longer.

"Got news for you, Maria," he called from the well, where he was making a pretense of thirst.

"Oh I don't know," answered Maria, with a superior smile.  "If it's about the redbirds, he's
been up to the garden three times this morning yellin', 'See here!' fit to split; an' I jest
figured that their little ones had hatched.  Is that your news?"

"Well I be durned!" gasped the astonished Abram.

Mid-afternoon Abram turned Nancy and started the plow down a row that led straight to the sumac.
He intended to stop there, tie to the fence, and go to the river bank, in the shade, for a
visit with the Cardinal.  It was very warm, and he was feeling the heat so much, that in his
heart he knew he would be glad to reach the end of the row and the rest he had promised himself.

The quick nervous strokes of the dinner bell, "Clang! Clang!" came cutting the air clearly
and sharply.  Abram stopped Nancy with a jerk. It was the warning Maria had promised to send
him if she saw prowlers with guns.  He shaded his eyes with his hand and scanned the points
of the compass through narrowed lids with concentrated vision.  He first caught a gleam of
light playing on a gun-barrel, and then he could discern the figure of a man clad in hunter's
outfit leisurely walking down the lane, toward the river.

Abram hastily hitched Nancy to the fence.  By making the best time he could, he reached the
opposite corner, and was nibbling the midrib of a young corn blade and placidly viewing the
landscape when the hunter passed.

"Howdy!" he said in an even cordial voice.

The hunter walked on without lifting his eyes or making audible reply. To Abram's friendly
oldfashioned heart this seemed the rankest discourtesy; and there was a flash in his eye and
a certain quality in his voice he lifted a hand for parley.

"Hold a minute, my friend," he said.  "Since you are on my premises, might I be privileged
to ask if you have seen a few signs 'at I have posted pertainin' to the use of a gun?"

"I am not blind," replied the hunter; "and my education has been looked after to the extent
that I can make out your notices.  From the number and size of them, I think I could do it,
old man, if I had no eyes."

The scarcely suppressed sneer, and the "old man" grated on Abram's nerves amazingly, for a
man of sixty years of peace.  The gleam in his eyes grew stronger, and there was a perceptible
lift of his shoulders as he answered:

"I meant 'em to be read an' understood!  From the main road passin' that cabin up there on
the bank, straight to the river, an' from the furthermost line o' this field to the same, is
my premises, an' on every foot of 'em the signs are in full force.  They're in a little fuller
force in June, when half the bushes an' tufts o' grass are housin' a young bird family, 'an
at any other time.  They're sort o' upholdin' the legislature's act, providing for the protection
o' game an' singin' birds; an' maybe it 'ud be well for you to notice 'at I'm not so old but
I'm able to stand up for my right to any livin' man."

There certainly was an added tinge of respect in the hunter's tones as he asked:  "Would you
consider it trespass if a man simply crossed your land, following the line of the fences to
reach the farm of a friend?"

"Certainly not!" cried Abram, cordial in his relief.  "To be sure not! Glad to have you convenience
yourself.  I only wanted to jest call to your notice 'at the BIRDS are protected on this farm."

"I have no intention of interfering with your precious birds, I assure you," replied the hunter.
"And if you require an explanation of the gun in June, I confess I did hope to be able to pick
off a squirrel for a very sick friend.  But I suppose for even such cause it would not be allowed
on your premises."

"Oh pshaw now!" said Abram.  "Man alive! I'm not onreasonable.  O' course in case o' sickness
I'd be glad if you could run across a squirrel.  All I wanted was to have a clear understandin'
about the birds.  Good luck, an' good day to you!"

Abram started across the field to Nancy, but he repeatedly turned to watch the gleam of the
gun-barrel, as the hunter rounded the corner and started down the river bank.  He saw him leave
the line of the fence and disappear in the thicket.

"Goin' straight for the sumac," muttered Abram.  "It's likely I'm a fool for not stayin' right
beside him past that point.  An' yet--I made it fair an' plain, an' he passed his word 'at
he wouldn't touch the birds."

He untied Nancy, and for the second time started toward the sumac.  He had been plowing carefully,
his attention divided between the mare and the corn; but he uprooted half that row, for his
eyes wandered to the Cardinal's home as if he were fascinated, and his hands were shaking with
undue excitement as he gripped the plow handles.  At last he stopped Nancy, and stood gazing
eagerly toward the river.

"Must be jest about the sumac," he whispered.  "Lord! but I'll be glad to see the old gun-barrel
gleamin' safe t'other side o' it."

There was a thin puff of smoke, and a screaming echo went rolling and reverberating down the
Wabash.  Abram's eyes widened, and a curious whiteness settled on his lips.  He stood as if
incapable of moving. "Clang! Clang!" came Maria's second warning.

The trembling slid from him, and his muscles hardened.  There was no trace of rheumatic stiffness
in his movements.  With a bound he struck the chain-traces from the singletree at Nancy's heels.
He caught the hames, leaped on her back, and digging his heels into her sides, he stretched
along her neck like an Indian and raced across the corn field.  Nancy's twenty years slipped
from her as her master's sixty had from him.  Without understanding the emergency, she knew
that he required all the speed there was in her; and with trace-chains rattling and beating
on her heels, she stretched out until she fairly swept the young corn, as she raced for the
sumac.  Once Abram straightened, and slipping a hand into his pocket, drew out a formidable
jack-knife, opening it as he rode.  When he reached the fence, he almost flew over Nancy's
head.  He went into a fence corner, and with a few slashes severed a stout hickory withe, stripping
the leaves and topping it as he leaped the fence.

He grasped this ugly weapon, his eyes dark with anger as he appeared before the hunter, who
supposed him at the other side of the field.

"Did you shoot at that redbird?" he roared.

As his gun was at the sportman's shoulder, and he was still peering among the bushes, denial
seemed useless.  "Yes, I did," he replied, and made a pretense of turning to the sumac again.

There was a forward impulse of Abram's body.  "Hit 'im?" he demanded with awful calm.

"Thought I had, but I guess I only winged him."

Abram's fingers closed around his club.  At the sound of his friend's voice, the Cardinal came
darting through the bushes a wavering flame, and swept so closely to him for protection that
a wing almost brushed his cheek.

"See here! See here!" shrilled the bird in deadly panic.  There was not a cut feather on him.

Abram's relief was so great he seemed to shrink an inch in height.

"Young man, you better thank your God you missed that bird," he said solemnly, "for if you'd
killed him, I'd a-mauled this stick to ribbons on you, an' I'm most afraid I wouldn't a-knowed
when to quit."

He advanced a step in his eagerness, and the hunter, mistaking his motive, levelled his gun.

"Drop that!" shouted Abram, as he broke through the bushes that clung to him, tore the clothing
from his shoulders, and held him back.  "Drop that!  Don't you dare point a weapon at me; on
my own premises, an' after you passed your word.

"Your word!" repeated Abram, with withering scorn, his white, quivering old face terrible to
see.  "Young man, I got a couple o' things to say to you.  You'r' shaped like a man, an' you'r'
dressed like a man, an' yet the smartest person livin' would never take you for anything but
an egg-suckin' dog, this minute.  All the time God ever spent on you was wasted, an' your mother's
had the same luck.  I s'pose God's used to having creatures 'at He's made go wrong, but I pity
your mother. Goodness knows a woman suffers an' works enough over her children, an' then to
fetch a boy to man's estate an' have him, of his own free will an' accord, be a liar!  Young
man, truth is the cornerstone o' the temple o' character.  Nobody can put up a good buildin'
without a solid foundation; an' you can't do solid character buildin' with a lie at the base.
Man 'at's a liar ain't fit for anything!  Can't trust him in no sphere or relation o' life;
or in any way, shape, or manner.  You passed out your word like a man, an' like a man I took
it an' went off trustin' you, an' you failed me.  Like as not that squirrel story was a lie,
too!  Have you got a sick friend who is needin' squirrel broth?"

The hunter shook his head.

"No?  That wasn't true either?  I'll own you make me curious.  'Ud you mind tellin' me what
was your idy in cookin' up that squirrel story?"

The hunter spoke with an effort.  "I suppose I wanted to do something to make you feel small,"
he admitted, in a husky voice.

"You wanted to make me feel small," repeated Abram, wonderingly. "Lord!  Lord!  Young man,
did you ever hear o' a boomerang?  It's a kind o' weapon used in Borneo, er Australy, er some
o' them furrin parts, an' it's so made 'at the heathens can pitch it, an' it cuts a circle
an' comes back to the fellow, at throwed.  I can't see myself, an' I don't know how small I'm
lookin'; but I'd rather lose ten year o' my life 'an to have anybody catch me lookin' as little
as you do right now.  I guess we look about the way we feel in this world.  I'm feelin' near
the size o' Goliath at present; but your size is such 'at it hustles me to see any MAN in you
at all.  An' you wanted to make me feel small!  My, oh, my!  An' you so young yet, too!

"An' if it hadn't a-compassed a matter o' breakin' your word, what 'ud you want to kill the
redbird for, anyhow? Who give you rights to go 'round takin' such beauty an' joy out of the
world?  Who do you think made this world an' the things 'at's in it?  Maybe it's your notion
'at somebody about your size whittled it from a block o' wood, scattered a little sand for
earth, stuck a few seeds for trees, an' started the oceans with a waterin' pot!  I don't know
what paved streets an' stall feedin' do for a man, but any one 'at's lived sixty year on the
ground knows 'at this whole old earth is jest teemin' with work 'at's too big for anything
but a God, an' a mighty BIG God at that!

"You don't never need bother none 'bout the diskivries o' science, for if science could prove
'at the earth was a red hot slag broken from the sun, 'at balled an' cooled flyin' through
space until the force o' gravity caught an' held it, it doesn't prove what the sun broke from,
or why it balled an' didn't cool.  Sky over your head, earth under foot, trees around you,
an' river there--all full o' life 'at you ain't no mortal right to touch, 'cos God made it,
an' it's His!  Course, I know 'at He said distinct 'at man was to have `dominion over the beasts
o' the field, an' the fowls o' the air' An' that means 'at you're free to smash a copperhead
instead of letting it sting you.  Means 'at you better shoot a wolf than to let it carry off
your lambs.  Means, at it's right to kill a hawk an' save your chickens; but God knows 'at
shootin' a redbird just to see the feathers fly isn't having dominion over anything; it's jest
makin' a plumb beast o' YERSELF.  Passes me, how you can face up to the Almighty, an' draw
a bead on a thing like that! Takes more gall'n I got!

"God never made anything prettier 'an that bird, an' He must a-been mighty proud o' the job.
Jest cast your eyes on it there!  Ever see anything so runnin' over with dainty, pretty, coaxin'
ways?  Little red creatures, full o' hist'ry, too! Ever think o' that?  Last year's bird, hatched
hereabout, like as not.  Went South for winter, an' made friends 'at's been feedin', an' teachin'
it to TRUST mankind.  Back this spring in a night, an' struck that sumac over a month ago.
Broke me all up first time I ever set eyes on it.

"Biggest reddest redbird I ever saw; an' jest a master hand at king's English!  Talk plain
as you can!  Don't know what he said down South, but you can bank on it, it was sumpin' pretty
fine.  When he settled here, he was discoursin' on the weather, an' he talked it out about
proper.  He'd say, `Wet year! Wet year!' jest like that!  He got the `wet' jest as good as
I can, an', if he drawed the `ye-ar' out a little, still any blockhead could a-told what he
was sayin', an' in a voice pretty an' clear as a bell.  Then he got love-sick, an' begged for
comp'ny until he broke me all up.  An' if I'd a-been a hen redbird I wouldn't a-been so long
comin'.  Had me pulverized in less'n no time! Then a little hen comes 'long, an' stops with
him; an' 'twas like an organ playin' prayers to hear him tell her how he loved her. Now they've
got a nest full o' the cunningest little topknot babies, an' he's splittin' the echoes, calling
for the whole neighbourhood to come see 'em, he's so mortal proud.

"Stake my life he's never been fired on afore!  He's pretty near wild with narvousness, but
he's got too much spunk to leave his fam'ly, an' go off an' hide from creatures like you. 
They's no caution in him. Look at him tearin' 'round to give you another chance!

"I felt most too rheumaticky to tackle field work this spring until he come 'long, an' the
fire o' his coat an' song got me warmed up as I ain't been in years.  Work's gone like it was
greased, an' my soul's been singin' for joy o' life an' happiness ev'ry minute o' the time
since he come.  Been carryin' him grub to that top rail once an' twice a day for the last month,
an' I can go in three feet o' him.  My wife comes to see him, an' brings him stuff; an' we
about worship him.  Who are you, to come 'long an' wipe out his joy in life, an' our joy in
him, for jest nothin'? You'd a left him to rot on the ground, if you'd a hit him; an' me an'
Maria's loved him so!

"D'you ever stop to think how full this world is o' things to love, if your heart's jest big
enough to let 'em in?  We love to live for the beauty o' the things surroundin' us, an' the
joy we take in bein' among 'em.  An' it's my belief 'at the way to make folks love us, is for
us to be able to 'preciate what they can do.  If a man's puttin' his heart an' soul, an' blood,
an' beef-steak, an' bones into paintin' picters, you can talk farmin' to him all day, an' he's
dumb; but jest show him 'at you see what he's a-drivin' at in his work, an' he'll love you
like a brother.  Whatever anybody succeeds in, it's success 'cos they so love it 'at they put
the best o' theirselves into it; an' so, lovin' what they do, is lovin' them.

"It 'ud 'bout kill a painter-man to put the best o' himself into his picture, an' then have
some fellow like you come 'long an' pour turpentine on it jest to see the paint run; an' I
think it must pretty well use God up, to figure out how to make an' colour a thing like that
bird, an' then have you walk up an' shoot the little red heart out of it, jest to prove 'at
you can! He's the very life o' this river bank. I'd as soon see you dig up the underbrush,
an' dry up the river, an' spoil the picture they make against the sky, as to hev' you drop
the redbird.  He's the red life o' the whole thing!  God must a-made him when his heart was
pulsin' hot with love an' the lust o' creatin' in-com-PAR-able things; an' He jest saw how
pretty it 'ud be to dip his featherin' into the blood He was puttin' in his veins.

"To my mind, ain't no better way to love an' worship God, 'an to protect an' 'preciate these
fine gifts He's given for our joy an' use. Worshipin' that bird's a kind o' religion with me.
Getting the beauty from the sky, an' the trees, an' the grass, an' the water 'at God made,
is nothin' but doin' Him homage.  Whole earth's a sanctuary.  You can worship from sky above
to grass under foot.

"Course, each man has his particular altar.  Mine's in that cabin up at the bend o' the river.
Maria lives there.  God never did cleaner work, 'an when He made Maria.  Lovin, her's sacrament.
She's so clean, an' pure, an' honest, an' big-hearted!  In forty year I've never jest durst
brace right up to Maria an' try to put in words what she means to me. Never saw nothin' else
as beautiful, or as good.  No flower's as fragrant an' smelly as her hair on her pillow.  Never
tapped a bee tree with honey sweet as her lips a-twitchin' with a love quiver.  Ain't a bird
'long the ol' Wabash with a voice up to hers.  Love o' God ain't broader'n her kindness.  When
she's been home to see her folks, I've been so hungry for her 'at I've gone to her closet an'
kissed the hem o' her skirts more'n once.  I've never yet dared kiss her feet, but I've always
wanted to.  I've laid out 'at if she dies first, I'll do it then.  An' Maria 'ud cry her eyes
out if you'd a-hit the redbird.  Your trappin's look like you could shoot.  I guess 'twas God
made that shot fly the mark.  I guess--"

"If you can stop, for the love of mercy do it!" cried the hunter.

His face was a sickly white, his temples wet with sweat, and his body trembling.  "I can't
endure any more.  I don't suppose you think I've any human instincts at all; but I have a few,
and I see the way to arouse more.  You probably won't believe me, but I'll never kill another
innocent harmless thing; and I will never lie again so long as I live."

He leaned his gun against the thorn tree, and dropped the remainder of his hunter's outfit
beside it on the ground.

"I don't seem a fit subject to `have dominion,'" he said.  "I'll leave those thing for you;
and thank you for what you have done for me."

There was a crash through the bushes, a leap over the fence, and Abram and the Cardinal were alone.

The old man sat down suddenly on a fallen limb of the sycamore.  He was almost dazed with astonishment.
He held up his shaking hands, and watched them wonderingly, and then cupped one over each trembling
knee to steady himself.  He outlined his dry lips with the tip of his tongue, and breathed
in heavy gusts.  He glanced toward the thorn tree.

"Left his gun," he hoarsely whispered, "an' it's fine as a fiddle. Lock, stock, an' barrel
just a-shinin'.  An' all that heap o' leather fixin's.  Must a-cost a lot o' money.  Said he
wasn't fit to use 'em! Lept the fence like a panther, an' cut dirt across the corn field. 
An' left me the gun!  Well! Well!  Well! Wonder what I said? I must a-been almost FIERCE."

"See here! See here!" shrilled the Cardinal.

Abram looked him over carefully.  He was quivering with fear, but in no way injured.

"My! but that was a close call, ol' fellow" said, Abram.  "Minute later, an' our fun 'ud a-been
over, an' the summer jest spoiled. Wonder if you knew what it meant, an' if you'll be gun-shy
after this. Land knows, I hope so; for a few more such doses 'ull jest lay me up."

