At 2 o'clock P. M., he says "All doubt is at an end! We have all seen it through the glass,
as distinctly as though it were but a few leagues off, and it is now clear and bright to the
unaided eye. It is unquestionably a richly monumented city, of vast dimensions, within lofty
parapeted walls, three or four miles square, inclined inward in the Egyptian style, and its
interior domes and turrets have an emphatically oriental aspect. I should judge it to be not
more than twenty-five leagues from Ocosingo, to the eastward, and nearly in the same latitude;
and this would probably be the best point from which to reach it, travelling due east, although
the course of the river Legartos seems to lead directly to it. That it is still an inhabited
place, is evident from the domes of its temples, or churches. Christian churches they cannot
be, for such a city would have an Archbishop and be well known to the civilized world. It must
be a Pagan strong-hold that escaped the conquest by its remote position, and the general retreat,
retirement, and centralizing seclusion of its surrounding population. It may now be opened
to the light of the true faith."

They commenced their descent the same day, and rested at night on the place of their previous
encampment, a narrow shelf of the sierra. Here, on the brink of the terrible ravine, which
they had again to encounter, they consulted upon a plan for their future operations; and it
was finally agreed that Messrs. Huertis and Hammond, with Antonio, and such of the Indian muleteers
as could be induced to proceed with the expedition, should follow the bottom of the ravine,
in its north-east course, in which, according to Antonio, the river Legartos took its principal
supply of water, and remain at a large village, adjacent to its banks, which they had seen,
about five leagues distant; while Senor Velasquez was to trace their late route, by way of
Gueguetenango, to Quezaltenango, where all the surplus arms and ammunition had been deposited,
and recruit a strong party of Indians, to serve as a guard, in the event of an attack from
the people of the unexplored region, whither they were resolutely bound. In the meantime, Antonio
was to return home to Gueguetenango, await the return of Velasquez, with his armed party, from
Quezaltenango, and conduct them over the mountains to the village on the plains, where Messrs.
Huertis and Hammond were to remain until they should arrive. It appears that Senor Velasquez
was abundantly supplied with solid funds for the recruiting service, and that Mr. Huertis also
furnished Antonio with a liberal sum, in addition to his stipulated pay, wherewith to procure
masses for the repose of his unfortunate brother.

Of the adventures of Messrs. Huertis and Hammond, in the long interval prior to the return
of Velasquez, we have no account whatever; nor does the journal of the latter contain any remarks
relative to his own operations, during the same period. The next date is July the 8th, when
we find him safely arrived with "nearly all the men he had engaged," at an Indian village called
Aguamasinta, where his anxious companions were overjoyed to receive him, and where "they had
obtained inestimable information regarding the proper arrangement of the final purpose." After
this we trace them, by brief memoranda, for a few days, on the devious course of the Legartos,
when the journal abruptly and finally closes. The remaining narrative of the expedition was
written by Senor Velasquez from memory, after his return to San Salvador, while all the exciting
events and scenes which it describes were vividly sustained by the feelings which they originally
inspired. As this excessively interesting document will be translated for the public press
as soon as the necessary consent of its present proprietor can be obtained, the writer of this
pamphlet the less regrets the very limited use of it to which he is now restricted--which is
but little more than that of making a mere abridgement and connexion of such incidents as may
serve to explain the origin and possession of those sui generis specimens of humanity, the
Aztec brother and sister, now exhibiting to the public, in the United States. From the introductory
paragraphs, we take the liberty to quote the following without abridgement:--

     "Our latitude and longitude were now 16° 42' N. and 91° 35' W; so
     that the grand amphitheatre of hills, forming three fourths of an
     oval outline of jagged summits, a few leagues before us, most
     probably inclosed the mysterious object of our anxious and
     uncertain labors. The small groups of Indians through which we had
     passed, in the course of the day, had evidently been startled by
     sheer astonishment, into a sort of passive and involuntary
     hospitality, but maintained a stark apprehensive reserve in most of
     their answers to our questions. They spoke a peculiar dialect of
     the Maya, which I had never heard before, and had great difficulty
     in comprehending, although several of the Maya Indians of our
     party understood it familiarly and spoke it fluently. From them we
     learned that they had never seen men of our race before, but that a
     man of the same race as Senor Hammond, who was of a bright-florid
     complexion, with light hair and red whiskers, had been sacrificed
     and eaten by the Macbenachs, or priests of Iximaya, the great city
     among the hills, about thirty moons ago. Our interpreters stated
     that the word "Iximaya" meant the "Great Centre," and that
     "Macbenach" meant the "Great Son of the Sun." I at once resolved to
     make the most of my time in learning as much as possible of this
     dialect from these men, because they said it was the tongue spoken
     by the people of Iximaya and the surrounding region. It appeared to
     me to be merely a provincial corruption, or local peculiarism, of
     the great body of the Maya language, with which I was already
     acquainted; and, in the course of the next day's conversation, I
     found that I could acquire it with much facility."

To this circumstance the writer is probably indebted for his life. In another day, the determined
explorers had come within the circuit of the alpine district in which Iximaya is situated,
and found it reposing, in massive grandeur, in the centre of a perfectly level plain, about
five leagues in diameter, at a distance of scarcely two from the spot they had reached. At
the base of all the mountains, rising upon their sides, and extending nearly a mile inward
upon the plain, was a dark green forest of colossal trees and florid shrubbery, girding it
around; while the even valley itself exhibited large tracts of uncultivated fields, fenced
in with palisades, and regular, even to monotony, both in size and form. "Large herds of deer,
cattle, and horses, were seen in the openings of the forest, and dispersed over the plain,
which was also studded with low flat-roofed dwellings of stone, in small detached clusters,
or hamlets. Rich patches of forest, of irregular forms, bordered with gigantic aloes, diversified
the landscape in effective contrast with bright lakes of water which glowed among them."

While the whole party, with their cavalcade of mules and baggage were gazing upon the scene,
two horsemen, in bright blue and yellow tunics, and wearing turbans decorated with three large
plumes of the quezal, dashed by them from the forest, at the distance of about two hundred
yards, on steeds of the highest Spanish mould, followed by a long retinue of athletic Indians,
equally well mounted, clothed in brilliant red tunics, with coronals of gay feathers, closely
arranged within a band of blue cloth. Each horseman carried a long spear, pointed with a polished
metal; and each held, in a leash, a brace of powerful blood-hounds, which were also of the
purest Spanish breed. The two leaders of this troop, who were Indians of commanding air and
stature, suddenly wheeled their horses and glared upon the large party of intruders with fixed
amazement. Their followers evinced equal surprise, but forgot not to draw up in good military
array, while the blood-hounds leapt and raged in their thongs.

     "While the leaders," says Senor Velasquez, "seemed to be intently
     scrutinizing every individual of our company, as if silently
     debating the policy of an immediate attack, one of the Maya
     Indians, of whom I had been learning the dialect, stepped forward
     and informed us that they were a detachment of rural guards, a very
     numerous military force, which had been appointed from time
     immemorial, or, at least from the time of the Spanish invasion, to
     hunt down and capture all strangers of a foreign race that should
     be found within a circle of twelve leagues of the city; and he
     repeated the statement made to us from the beginning, that no white
     man had hitherto eluded their vigilance or left their city alive.
     He said there was a tradition that many of the pioneers of
     Alvarado's army had been cut off in this manner, and never heard of
     more, while their skulls and weapons are to this day suspended
     round the altars of the pagan gods. He added, finally, that if we
     wished to escape the same fate, now was our only chance; that as we
     numbered thirty-five, all armed with repeating rifles, we could
     easily destroy the present detachment, which amounted to but fifty,
     and secure our retreat before another could come up; but that, in
     order to do this, it was necessary first to shoot the dogs, which
     all our Indians regarded with the utmost dread and horror.

     "I instantly felt the force of this advice, in which, also, I was
     sustained by Senor Hammond; but Senor Huertis, whom, as the leader
     of the expedition, we were all bound and solemnly pledged to obey;
     utterly rejected the proposition. He had come so far to see the
     city and see it he would, whether taken thither as a captive or
     not, and whether he ever returned from it or not, that this was the
     contract originally proposed, and to which I had assented; that the
     fine troop before us was evidently not a gang of savages, but a
     body of civilized men and good soldiers; and as to the dogs, they
     were noble animals of the highest blood he ever saw. If, however, I
     and his friend Hammond, who seemed afraid of being eaten, in
     preference to the fine beef and venison which we had seen in such
     profusion on the plain, really felt alarmed at the bugbear legends
     of our vagabond Indians, before any demonstration of hostility had
     been made, we were welcome to take two-thirds of the men and mules
     and make our retreat as best we could, while he would advance with
     Antonio and the remainder of the party, to the gates of the city,
     and demand a peaceable admission. I could not but admire the
     romantic intrepidity of this resolve, though I doubted its
     discretion; and assured him I was ready to follow his example and
     share his fate.

     "While this conversation was passing among us, the Indian
     commanders held a conference apparently as grave and important. But
     just as Senor Huertis and myself had agreed to advance towards them
     for a parley, they separated without deigning a reply to our
     salutation--the elder and more highly decorated, galloped off
     towards the city with a small escort, while the other briskly
     crossed our front at the head of his squadron and entered the
     forest nearer the entrance of the valley. This opening in the
     hills, was scarcely a quarter of a mile wide, and but a few minutes
     elapsed before we saw a single horseman cross it toward the wood on
     the opposite side. Presently, another troop of horse of the same
     uniform appearance as the first, were seen passing a glade of the
     wood which the single horseman had penetrated, and it thus became
     evident that a manoeuvre had already been effected to cut off our
     retreat. The mountains surrounding the whole area of the plain,
     were absolutely perpendicular for three-fourths of their altitude,
     which was no where less than a thousand feet; and from many parts
     of their wildly piled outline, huge crags projected in monstrous
     mammoth forms, as if to plunge to the billows of forest beneath. At
     no point of this vast impassible boundary was there a chasm or
     declivity discernable by which we could make our exit, except the
     one thus formidably intercepted.

     "To retire into the forest and water our mules at a copious stream
     which rushed forth from its recesses, and recruit our own exhausted
     strength with food and rest, was our first necessary resource. In
     tracing the rocky course of the current for a convenient watering
     place, Antonio discovered that it issued from a cavern, which,
     though a mere fissure exteriorly, was, within, of cathedral
     dimensions and solemnity; we all entered it and drank eagerly from
     a foaming basin, which it immediately presented to our fevered
     lips. Our first sensations were those of freedom and independence,
     and of that perfect security which is the basis of both. It was
     long since we had slept under a roof of any kind, while here a few
     men could defend our repose against an assault from thousands; but
     it was horribly evident, to my mind, that a few watchful assailants
     would suffice to reduce us to starvation, or destroy us in detail.
     Our security was that of a prison, and our freedom was limited to
     its walls. Happily, however, for the present hour, this reflection
     seemed to trouble no one. Objects of wonder and veneration grew
     numerous to our gaze. Gigantic statues of ancient warriors, with
     round shields, arched helmets, and square breast-plates, curiously
     latticed and adorned, stood sculptured in high relief, with grave
     faces and massive limbs, and in the regular order of columns around
     the walls of this grand mausoleum. Many of them stood arrayed in
     the crimson of the setting sun, which then flamed through the tall
     fissure into the cavern; and the deep gloom into which long rows of
     others utterly retired from our view, presented a scene at once of
     mingled mystery and splendor. It was evidently a place of great and
     recent resort, both for men and horses, for plentiful supplies of
     fresh fodder for the latter were heaped in stone recesses; while
     the ashes of numerous fires, mingled with discarded moccasins and
     broken pipes and pottery, attested a domiciliary occupation by the
     former. Farther into the interior, were found seats and
     sleeping-couches of fine cane work; and in a spacious recess, near
     the entrance, a large collection of the bones, both of the ox and
     the deer, with hides, also, of both, but newly flayed and suspended
     on pegs by the horns. These last evidences of good living had more
     effect upon our hungry Indians than all the rest, and within an
     hour after dark, while we were seeking our first sleep, four fine
     deer were brought in by about a dozen of our party, whom we
     supposed to have been faithfully guarding our citadel. It is
     unnecessary to say that we gladly arose to the rich repast that
     ensued, for we had eaten nothing but our scant allowance of
     tortillas for many days, and were in the lassitude of famine."

Tempting as such extracts are, we must avoid them, and hasten through a summary of subsequent
events. There is one singular incident, however, mentioned in the passage immediately following
the above, possessing too important a connexion with the final catastrophe to be pretermitted
at this place. Mr. Hammond, the Canadian engineer, fearing that the peculiarity of his appearance,
as a man of fair and ruddy complexion, among a swarthy race, would subject him to great annoyance,
and perhaps involve him in the horrible fate of a similar person, reported by the Indians,
resolved to stain his skin of a darker hue, by means of some chemical preparation which he
had precautionarily provided for this purpose, before he left the United States. With the friendly
assistance of Antonio, this metamorphosis was completed over his whole person before he retired
to rest; his red whiskers were shaved off, and his light hair died of a jet black; and so perfect
was the disguise, that not one of the party who went foraging for venison recognized him on
their return, but marvelled, as he sat at supper, whence so singular a stranger could have
come. Velasquez states, however, that his new complexion was unlike that of any human being
on the face of the earth, and scarcely diminished the certainty of his becoming an object of
curiosity, among an Indian population.

In the morning, about the break of day, the infernal yells of a pack of blood-hounds suddenly
rang through the cavern, and the party could scarcely seize their rifles before many of the
dogs, who had driven in the affrighted Indians on guard, were springing at their throats. Mr.
Huertis, however, the American leader of the expedition, with that presence of mind which seems
always to have distinguished him, told the men that rifles were useless in such a contest,
and that the hounds must be dispatched with their long knives as fast as they came in, while
the fire-arms were to be reserved for their masters. This canine butchery was accomplished
with but little difficulty; none of the party received any serious injury from their fangs;
and the Indians were exhilarated with a victory which was chiefly a conquest of their fears.
These unfortunate dogs, it appears, were the advanced van of a pack, or perhaps merely a few
unleashed as scouts to others held in reserve; for no more were seen or heard for sometime.
Meanwhile, Mr. Huertis seems to have struck out a brilliant scheme. He collected his whole
party into that obscure branch of the cavern, near its entrance, which has been described as
a depository of animal bones, and ordering them to sling their rifles at their backs, bade
them stand ready with their knives. Almost instantly, they observed a party of ten dismounted
natives, in scarlet tunics, and armed with spears, enter the cavern in single file; and, it
would seem, from seeing the dogs slain and no enemy in sight, they rushed out again, without
venturing on farther search. In a few minutes, however, they returned with forty or fifty more,
in the same uniform, headed by the younger of the two personages whom they had seen in command
the previous evening. As soon as they were well advanced into the cavern, and heard disturbing
the tired mules, Mr. Huertis and his party marched quietly out and seized their horses, which
were picketed close by, in charge of two or three men, whom they disarmed. At a short distance,
however, drawn up in good order, was another squadron of horses, which Mr. Huertis determined
instantly to charge. Ordering his whole party to mount the noble stallions they had captured,
and reserve their fire until he gave the word, he, Velasquez, and Hammond, drew the short sabres
they had worn on their march, and led the attack. The uniformed natives, however, did not wait
the encounter, but scattered in wonderment and consternation; doubtless under the impression
that all their comrades had been slain. But the rapid approach of a much larger force--which
is found, eventually, to have consisted of two detachments of fifty each, being just twice
their number--speedily reassured them, and falling in line with this powerful reinforcement,
the whole hundred and fifty charged upon our comparative handful of travellers, at a rapid
pace. Huertis promptly ordered his little party to halt, and form in line, two deep, with presented
arms; and doubtless feeling that, notwithstanding the disparity of numbers, the enemy, armed
only with spears and small side-hatchets, held but a slender chance of victory over a party
of thirty-eight--most of them old campaigners in the sanguinary expeditions of the terrible
Carrera--armed with new "six-shooting" rifles and long knives, generously commanded them to
keep aim upon the horses only, until further orders. In the meantime, most of their plumed
opponents, instead of using their long spears as in lance practice, threw them through the
air from so great a distance that nearly all fell short of the mark--an infallible indication
both of timidity and inexperience in action. The unfortunate Mr. Hammond, however, was pierced
through the right breast, and another of the party was killed by being transfixed through the
bowels. At this instant Huertis gave the word to fire; and, at the next, no small number of
the enemy were rolling upon the sod, amid their plunging horses. A second rapid, but well delivered
volley, brought down as many more, when the rest, in attitudes of frantic wonder and terror,
unconsciously dropped their weapons and fled like affrighted fowls under the sudden swoop of
the kite. Their dispersion was so outrageously wild and complete that no two of them could
be seen together as they radiated over the plain. The men and horses seemed impelled alike
by a preternatural panic; and neither Cortez in Mexico, nor Pizarro in Peru, ever witnessed
greater consternation at fire-arms among a people, who, for the first time, beheld their phenomena
and effects--when mere hundreds of invaders easily subjugated millions of natives chiefly by
this appalling influence--than was manifested by these Iximayans on this occasion. Indeed,
it appears that these primitive and isolated people, holding no intercourse whatever with the
rest of mankind, were as ignorant as their ancestors even of the existence of this kind of
weapons; and although their modern hieroglyphical annals were found to contain vague allusions
to the use of them in the conquest of the surrounding country, by means of a peculiar kind
of thunder and lightning, and several old Spanish muskets and pistols were found in their scant
collection of foreign curiosities, yet, not even the most learned of their priests had retained
the slightest notion of the uses for which they were designed.

While this summary conflict was enacted on the open lawn of the forest, the dismounted company
in the cavern having completed their fruitless search for the fugitives, emerged from its portal
with all the mules and baggage, just in time to see and hear the fiery explosions of the rifles
and their effect upon the whole body of scarlet cavalry. The entire scene, including the mounted
possession of their horses by uncouthly attired strangers, previously invisible, must have
appeared to these terror-stricken natives an achievement of supernatural beings. And when Mr.
Huertis wheeled his obstreperously laughing party to recover his mules, he found most of the
astounded men prostrated upon their faces, while others, more self-possessed, knelt upon the
bended knee, and, with drooping heads, crossed their hands behind them to receive the bonds
of captives. Their gallant and gaily accoutred young chieftain, however, though equally astonished
and dismayed, merely surrendered his javelin as an officer would his sword, under the like
circumstances, in civilized warfare. But, with admirable tact and forethought, Huertis declined
to accept it, immediately returning it with the most profound and deferential cordiality of
manner. He at the same time informed him, through Velasquez, that, though strangers, his party
were not enemies but friendly visitors, who, after a long and painful journey, again to be
pursued, desired the temporary hospitality of his countrymen in their magnificent city.

The young chief replied, with evident discomposure and concern, that his countrymen showed
no hospitality to strangers, it being interdicted by their laws and punishable with death;
that the inhabitants of their city held intercourse only with the population of the surrounding
valley, who were restricted alike by law and by patriotism from ever leaving its confines;
he and his fellow soldiers alone being privileged to visit the neighboring regions for the
purpose of arresting intruders, (cowana,) and escorting certain kind of merchandize which they
exchanged with a people of their own race in an adjoining district. He added, with much eloquence
of manner, and as Velasquez believed, of language, which he but partially understood, that
the independence and peace of his nation, who were a peaceful and happy people, depended upon
these severe restrictions, which indeed had been the only means of preserving it, while all
the country besides, from sea to sea, had bowed to a foreign yoke, and seen their ancient cities,
once the seats and centres of mighty empires, overgrown with forest, and the temples of their
gods demolished.

He further added, says Velasquez, in a very subdued but significant tone, that some few strangers,
it was true, had been taken to the city by its guards in the course of many generations, but
that none of them had been allowed an opportunity of betraying its existence and locality to
the cruel rapacity of the foreign race. He concluded by earnestly entreating them, since he
could not compel them as prisoners, to enter the city as friends, with the view of residing
there for life; promising them wives, and dwellings, and honors; for even now, if they attempted
to retreat, they would be overtaken by thousands of armed men on fleet horses, that would overpower
them by their numbers and subject them to a very different fate.

