It is common to say that, if the world makes progress at all, it is by its great men, and when
anything important for the race is to be done, a great man is raised up to do it. Yet another
way to look at it is, that the doing of something at the appointed time makes the man who does
it great, or at least celebrated. The man often appears to be only a favored instrument of
communication. As we glance back we recognize the truth that, at this and that period, the
time had come for certain discoveries. Intelligence seemed pressing in from the invisible.
Many minds were on the alert to apprehend it. We believe, for instance, that if Gutenberg had
not invented movable types, somebody else would have given them to the world about that time.
Ideas, at certain times, throng for admission into the world; and we are all familiar with
the fact that the same important idea (never before revealed in all the ages) occurs to separate
and widely distinct minds at about the same time. The invention of the electric telegraph seemed
to burst upon the world simultaneously from many quarters--not perfect, perhaps, but the time
for the idea had come--and happy was it for the man who entertained it. We have agreed to call
Columbus the discoverer of America, but I suppose there is no doubt that America had been visited
by European, and probably Asiatic, people ages before Columbus; that four or five centuries
before him people from northern Europe had settlements here; he was fortunate, however, in
"discovering" it in the fullness of time, when the world, in its progress, was ready for it.
If the Greeks had had gunpowder, electro-magnetism, the printing press, history would need
to be rewritten. Why the inquisitive Greek mind did not find out these things is a mystery
upon any other theory than the one we are considering.

And it is as mysterious that China, having gunpowder and the art of printing, is not today
like Germany.

There seems to me to be a progress, or an intention of progress, in the world, independent
of individual men. Things get on by all sorts of instruments, and sometimes by very poor ones.
There are times when new thoughts or applications of known principles seem to throng from the
invisible for expression through human media, and there is hardly ever an important invention
set free in the world that men do not appear to be ready cordially to receive it. Often we
should be justified in saying that there was a widespread expectation of it. Almost all the
great inventions and the ingenious application of principles have many claimants for the honor
of priority.

On any other theory than this, that there is present in the world an intention of progress
which outlasts individuals, and even races, I cannot account for the fact that, while civilizations
decay and pass away, and human systems go to pieces, ideas remain and accumulate. We, the latest
age, are the inheritors of all the foregoing ages. I do not believe that anything of importance
has been lost to the world. The Jewish civilization was torn up root and branch, but whatever
was valuable in the Jewish polity is ours now. We may say the same of the civilizations of
Athens and of Rome; though the entire organization of the ancient world, to use Mr. Froude's
figure, collapsed into a heap of incoherent sand, the ideas remained, and Greek art and Roman
law are part of the world's solid possessions.

Even those who question the value to the individual of what we call progress, admit, I suppose,
the increase of knowledge in the world from age to age, and not only its increase, but its
diffusion. The intelligent schoolboy today knows more than the ancient sages knew--more about
the visible heavens, more of the secrets of the earth, more of the human body. The rudiments
of his education, the common experiences of his everyday life, were, at the best, the guesses
and speculations of a remote age. There is certainly an accumulation of facts, ideas, knowledge.
Whether this makes men better, wiser, happier, is indeed disputed.

In order to maintain the notion of a general and intended progress, it is not necessary to
show that no preceding age has excelled ours in some special, development. Phidias has had
no rival in sculpture, we may admit. It is possible that glass was once made as flexible as
leather, and that copper could be hardened like steel. But I do not take much stock in the
"lost arts," the wondering theme of the lyceums. The knowledge of the natural world, and of
materials, was never, I believe, so extensive and exact as it is today. It is possible that
there are tricks of chemistry, ingenious processes, secrets of color, of which we are ignorant;
but I do not believe there was ever an ancient alchemist who could not be taught something
in a modern laboratory. The vast engineering works of the ancient Egyptians, the remains of
their temples and pyramids, excite our wonder; but I have no doubt that President Grant, if
he becomes the tyrant they say he is becoming, and commands the labor of forty millions of
slaves--a large proportion of them office --holders--could build a Karnak, or erect a string
of pyramids across New Jersey.

Mr. Froude runs lightly over a list of subjects upon which the believer in progress relies
for his belief, and then says of them that the world calls this progress--he calls it only
change. I suppose he means by this two things: that these great movements of our modern life
are not any evidence of a permanent advance, and that our whole structure may tumble into a
heap of incoherent sand, as systems of society have done before; and, again, that it is questionable
if, in what we call a stride in civilization, the individual citizen is becoming any purer
or more just, or if his intelligence is directed towards learning and doing what is right,
or only to the means of more extended pleasures.

It is, perhaps, idle to speculate upon the first of these points--the permanence of our advance,
if it is an advance. But we may be encouraged by one thing that distinguishes this period--say
from the middle of the eighteenth century--from any that has preceded it. I mean the introduction
of machinery, applied to the multiplication of man's power in a hundred directions--to manufacturing,
to locomotion, to the diffusion of thought and of knowledge. I need not dwell upon this familiar
topic. Since this period began there has been, so far as I know, no retrograde movement anywhere,
but, besides the material, an intellectual and spiritual kindling the world over, for which
history has no sort of parallel. Truth is always the same, and will make its way, but this
subject might be illustrated by a study of the relation of Christianity and of the brotherhood
of men to machinery. The theme would demand an essay by itself. I leave it with the one remark,
that this great change now being wrought in the world by the multiplicity of machinery is not
more a material than it is an intellectual one, and that we have no instance in history of
a catastrophe widespread enough and adequate to sweep away its results. That is to say, none
of the catastrophes, not even the corruptions, which brought to ruin the ancient civilizations,
would work anything like the same disaster in an age which has the use of machinery that this
age has.

For instance: Gibbon selects the period between the accession of Trajan and the death of Marcus
Aurelius as the time in which the human race enjoyed more general happiness than they had ever
known before, or had since known. Yet, says Mr. Froude, in the midst of this prosperity the
heart of the empire was dying out of it; luxury and selfishness were eating away the principle
that held society together, and the ancient world was on the point of collapsing into a heap
of incoherent sand. Now, it is impossible to conceive that the catastrophe which did happen
to that civilization could have happened if the world had then possessed the steam-engine,
the printing-press, and the electric telegraph. The Roman power might have gone down, and the
face of the world been recast; but such universal chaos and such a relapse for the individual
people would seem impossible.

If we turn from these general considerations to the evidences that this is an "era of progress"
in the condition of individual men, we are met by more specific denials. Granted, it is said,
all your facilities for travel and communication, for cheap and easy manufacture, for the distribution
of cheap literature and news, your cheap education, better homes, and all the comforts and
luxuries of your machine civilization, is the average man, the agriculturist, the machinist,
the laborer any better for it all? Are there more purity, more honest, fair dealing, genuine
work, fear and honor of God? Are the proceeds of labor more evenly distributed? These, it is
said, are the criteria of progress; all else is misleading.

Now, it is true that the ultimate end of any system of government or civilization should be
the improvement of the individual man. And yet this truth, as Mr. Froude puts it, is only a
half-truth, so that this single test of any system may not do for a given time and a limited
area. Other and wider considerations come in. Disturbances, which for a while unsettle society
and do not bring good results to individuals, may, nevertheless, be necessary, and may be a
sign of progress. Take the favorite illustration of Mr. Froude and Mr. Ruskin--the condition
of the agricultural laborer of England. If I understand them, the civilization of the last
century has not helped his position as a man. If I understand them, he was a better man, in
a better condition of earthly happiness, and with a better chance of heaven, fifty years ago
than now, before the "era of progress" found him out. (It ought to be noticed here, that the
report of the Parliamentary Commission on the condition of the English agricultural laborer
does not sustain Mr. Froude's assumptions. On the contrary, the report shows that his condition
is in almost all respects vastly better than it was fifty years ago.) Mr. Ruskin would remove
the steam-engine and all its devilish works from his vicinity; he would abolish factories,
speedy travel by rail, new-fangled instruments of agriculture, our patent education, and remit
him to his ancient condition--tied for life to a bit of ground, which should supply all his
simple wants; his wife should weave the clothes for the family; his children should learn nothing
but the catechism and to speak the truth; he should take his religion without question from
the hearty, fox-hunting parson, and live and die undisturbed by ideas. Now, it seems to me
that if Mr. Ruskin could realize in some isolated nation this idea of a pastoral, simple existence,
under a paternal government, he would have in time an ignorant, stupid, brutal community in
a great deal worse case than the agricultural laborers of England are at present. Three-fourths
of the crime in the kingdom of Bavaria is committed in the Ultramontane region of the Tyrol,
where the conditions of popular education are about those that Mr. Ruskin seems to regret as
swept away by the present movement in England--a stagnant state of things, in which any wind
of heaven would be a blessing, even if it were a tornado. Education of the modern sort unsettles
the peasant, renders him unfit for labor, and gives us a half-educated idler in place of a
conscientious workman. The disuse of the apprentice system is not made good by the present
system of education, because no one learns a trade well, and the consequence is poor work,
and a sham civilization generally. There is some truth in these complaints. But the way out
is not backward, but forward. The fault is not with education, though it may be with the kind
of education. The education must go forward; the man must not be half but wholly educated.
It is only half-knowledge like half-training in a trade that is dangerous.

But what I wish to say is, that notwithstanding certain unfavorable things in the condition
of the English laborer and mechanic, his chance is better in the main than it was fifty years
ago. The world is a better world for him. He has the opportunity to be more of a man. His world
is wider, and it is all open to him to go where he will. Mr. Ruskin may not so easily find
his ideal, contented peasant, but the man himself begins to apprehend that this is a world
of ideas as well as of food and clothes, and I think, if he were consulted, he would have no
desire to return to the condition of his ancestors. In fact, the most hopeful symptom in the
condition of the English peasant is his discontent. For, as skepticism is in one sense the
handmaid of truth, discontent is the mother of progress. The man is comparatively of little
use in the world who is contented.

There is another thought pertinent here. It is this: that no man, however humble, can live
a full life if he lives to himself alone. He is more of a man, he lives in a higher plane of
thought and of enjoyment, the more his communications are extended with his fellows and the
wider his sympathies are. I count it a great thing for the English peasant, a solid addition
to his life, that he is every day being put into more intimate relations with every other man
on the globe.

I know it is said that these are only vague and sentimental notions of progress--notions of
a "salvation by machinery." Let us pass to something that may be less vague, even if it be
more sentimental. For a hundred years we have reckoned it progress, that the people were taking
part in government. We have had a good deal of faith in the proposition put forth at Philadelphia
a century ago, that men are, in effect, equal in political rights. Out of this simple proposition
springs logically the extension of suffrage, and a universal education, in order that this
important function of a government by the people may be exercised intelligently.

Now we are told by the most accomplished English essayists that this is a mistake, that it
is change, but no progress. Indeed, there are philosophers in America who think so. At least
I infer so from the fact that Mr. Froude fathers one of his definitions of our condition upon
an American. When a block of printer's type is by accident broken up and disintegrated, it
falls into what is called "pi." The "pi," a mere chaos, is afterwards sorted and distributed,
preparatory to being built up into fresh combinations. "A distinguished American friend," says
Mr. Froude, "describes Democracy as making pi." It is so witty a sarcasm that I almost think
Mr. Froude manufactured it himself. Well, we have been making this "pi" for a hundred years;
it seems to be a national dish in considerable favor with the rest of the world--even such
ancient nations as China and Japan want a piece of it.

Now, of course, no form of human government is perfect, or anything like it, but I should be
willing to submit the question to an English traveler even, whether, on the whole, the people
of the United States do not have as fair a chance in life and feel as little the oppression
of government as any other in the world; whether anywhere the burdens are more lifted off men's
shoulders.

This infidelity to popular government and unbelief in any good results to come from it are
not, unfortunately, confined to the English essayists. I am not sure but the notion is growing
in what is called the intellectual class, that it is a mistake to intrust the government to
the ignorant many, and that it can only be lodged safely in the hands of the wise few. We hear
the corruptions of the times attributed to universal suffrage. Yet these corruptions certainly
are not peculiar to the United States: It is also said here, as it is in England, that our
diffused and somewhat superficial education is merely unfitting the mass of men, who must be
laborers, for any useful occupation.

This argument, reduced to plain terms, is simply this: that the mass of mankind are unfit to
decide properly their own political and social condition; and that for the mass of mankind
any but a very limited mental development is to be deprecated. It would be enough to say of
this, that class government and popular ignorance have been tried for so many ages, and always
with disaster and failure in the end, that I should think philanthropical historians would
be tired of recommending them. But there is more to be said.

I feel that as a resident on earth, part owner of it for a time, unavoidably a member of society,
I have a right to a voice in determining what my condition and what my chance in life shall
be. I may be ignorant, I should be a very poor ruler of other people, but I am better capable
of deciding some things that touch me nearly than another is. By what logic can I say that
I should have a part in the conduct of this world and that my neighbor should not? Who is to
decide what degree of intelligence shall fit a man for a share in the government? How are we
to select the few capable men that are to rule all the rest? As a matter of fact, men have
been rulers who had neither the average intelligence nor virtue of the people they governed.
And, as a matter of historical experience, a class in power has always sought its own benefit
rather than that of the whole people. Lunacy, extraordinary stupidity, and crime aside, a man
is the best guardian of his own liberty and rights.

The English critics, who say we have taken the government from the capable few and given it
to the people, speak of universal suffrage as a quack panacea of this "era of progress." But
it is not the manufactured panacea of any theorist or philosopher whatever. It is the natural
result of a diffused knowledge of human rights and of increasing intelligence. It is nothing
against it that Napoleon III. used a mockery of it to govern France. It is not a device of
the closet, but a method of government, which has naturally suggested itself to men as they
have grown into a feeling of self-reliance and a consciousness that they have some right in
the decision of their own destiny in the world. It is true that suffrage peculiarly fits a
people virtuous and intelligent. But there has not yet been invented any government in which
a people would thrive who were ignorant and vicious.

Our foreign critics seem to regard our "American system," by the way, as a sort of invention
or patent right, upon which we are experimenting; forgetting that it is as legitimate a growth
out of our circumstances as the English system is out of its antecedents. Our system is not
the product of theorists or closet philosophers; but it was ordained in substance and inevitable
from the day the first "town meeting" assembled in New England, and it was not in the power
of Hamilton or any one else to make it otherwise.

So you must have education, now you have the ballot, say the critics of this era of progress;
and this is another of your cheap inventions. Not that we undervalue book knowledge. Oh, no!
but it really seems to us that a good trade, with the Lord's Prayer and the Ten Commandments
back of it, would be the best thing for most of you. You must work for a living anyway; and
why, now, should you unsettle your minds?

This is such an astounding view of human life and destiny that I do not know what to say to
it. Did it occur to Mr. Froude to ask the man whether he would be contented with a good trade
and the Ten Commandments? Perhaps the man would like eleven commandments? And, if he gets hold
of the eleventh, he may want to know something more about his fellow-men, a little geography
maybe, and some of Mr. Froude's history, and thus he may be led off into literature, and the
Lord knows where.

The inference is that education--book fashion--will unfit the man for useful work. Mr. Froude
here again stops at a half-truth. As a general thing, intelligence is useful in any position
a man occupies. But it is true that there is a superficial and misdirected sort of education,
so called, which makes the man who receives it despise labor; and it is also true that in the
present educational revival there has been a neglect of training in the direction of skilled
labor, and we all suffer more or less from cheap and dishonest work. But the way out of this,
again, is forward, and not backward. It is a good sign, and not a stigma upon this era of progress,
that people desire education. But this education must be of the whole man; he must be taught
to work as well as to read, and he is, indeed, poorly educated if he is not fitted to do his
work in the world. We certainly shall not have better workmen by having ignorant workmen. I
need not say that the real education is that which will best fit a man for performing well
his duties in life. If Mr. Froude, instead of his plaint over the scarcity of good mechanics,
and of the Ten Commandments in England, had recommended the establishment of industrial schools,
he would have spoken more to the purpose.

I should say that the fashionable skepticism of today, here and in England, is in regard to
universal suffrage and the capacity of the people to govern themselves. The whole system is
the sharp invention of Thomas Jefferson and others, by which crafty demagogues can rule. Instead
of being, as we have patriotically supposed, a real progress in human development, it is only
a fetich, which is becoming rapidly a failure. Now, there is a great deal of truth in the assertion
that, whatever the form of government, the ablest men, or the strongest, or the most cunning
in the nation, will rule. And yet it is true that in a popular government, like this, the humblest
citizen, if he is wronged or oppressed, has in his hands a readier instrument of redress than
he has ever had in any form of government. And it must not be forgotten that the ballot in
the hands of all is perhaps the only safeguard against the tyranny of wealth in the hands of
the few. It is true that bad men can band together and be destructive; but so they can in any
government. Revolution by ballot is much safer than revolution by violence; and, granting that
human nature is selfish, when the whole people are the government selfishness is on the side
of the government. Can you mention any class in this country whose interest it is to overturn
the government? And, then, as to the wisdom of the popular decisions by the ballot in this
country. Look carefully at all the Presidential elections from Washington's down, and say,
in the light of history, if the popular decision has not, every time, been the best for the
country. It may not have seemed so to some of us at the time, but I think it is true, and a
very significant fact.

Of course, in this affirmation of belief that one hundred years of popular government in this
country is a real progress for humanity, and not merely a change from the rule of the fit to
the rule of the cunning, we cannot forget that men are pretty much everywhere the same, and
that we have abundant reason for national humility. We are pretty well aware that ours is not
an ideal state of society, and should be so, even if the English who pass by did not revile
us, wagging their heads. We might differ with them about the causes of our disorders. Doubtless,
extended suffrage has produced certain results. It seems, strangely enough, to have escaped
the observation of our English friends that to suffrage was due the late horse disease. No
one can discover any other cause for it. But there is a cause for the various phenomena of
this period of shoddy, of inflated speculation, of disturbance of all values, social, moral,
political, and material, quite sufficient in the light of history to account for them. It is
not suffrage; it is an irredeemable paper currency. It has borne its usual fruit with us, and
neither foreign nor home critics can shift the responsibility of it upon our system of government.
Yes, it is true, we have contrived to fill the world with our scandals of late. I might refer
to a loose commercial and political morality; to betrayals of popular trust in politics; to
corruptions in legislatures and in corporations; to an abuse of power in the public press,
which has hardly yet got itself adjusted to its sudden accession of enormous influence. We
complain of its injustice to individuals sometimes. We might imagine that something like this
would occur.

A newspaper one day says: "We are exceedingly pained to hear that the Hon. Mr. Blank, who is
running for Congress in the First District, has permitted his aged grandmother to go to the
town poorhouse. What renders this conduct inexplicable is the fact that Mr. Blank is a man
of large fortune."

The next day the newspaper says: "The Hon. Mr. Blank has not seen fit to deny the damaging
accusation in regard to the treatment of his grandmother."

The next day the newspaper says: "Mr. Blank is still silent. He is probably aware that he cannot
afford to rest under this grave charge."

The next day the newspaper asks: "Where's Blank? Has he fled?"

At last, goaded by these remarks, and most unfortunately for himself, Mr. Blank writes to the
newspaper and most indignantly denies the charge; he never sent his grandmother to the poorhouse.

Thereupon the newspaper says: "Of course a rich man who would put his own grandmother in the
poorhouse would deny it. Our informant was a gentleman of character. Mr. Blank rests the matter
on his unsupported word. It is a question of veracity."

Or, perhaps, Mr. Blank, more unfortunately for himself, begins by making an affidavit, wherein
he swears that he never sent his grandmother to the poorhouse, and that, in point of fact,
he has not any grandmother whatever.

The newspaper then, in language that is now classical, "goes for" Mr. Blank. It says: "Mr.
Blank resorts to the common device of the rogue --the affidavit. If he had been conscious of
rectitude, would he not have relied upon his simple denial?"

Now, if an extreme case like this could occur, it would be bad enough. But, in our free society,
the remedy would be at hand. The constituents of Mr. Blank would elect him in triumph. The
newspaper would lose public confidence and support and learn to use its position more justly.
What I mean to indicate by such an extreme instance as this is, that in our very license of
individual freedom there is finally a correcting power.

