Although practically impossible to stand at the west end and discourse at any length on the
history and architecture, it is well to get some idea of the shape of the building and the
period of each portion before we start.  On either side are the lower parts of the towers,
behind us is the great west window, finished, as we heard before, in the reign of King Henry
VII.  The bells hang in the belfry, the south-west tower, and the north-west tower is still
called the baptistery, because baptisms used to take place there.  The font is now in Henry
VII.'s Chapel.  The glass of the window over our heads dates only from George II.'s time; the
two smaller ones, left and right, are filled with fragments of ancient glass, as is also the
east window, which we see at the other end of the church. The building itself is in the usual
cruciform shape, and we stand now, as it were, at the foot of the cross, the nave and ritual
choir forming the beam, the transepts the arms, and the apse, with its circle of small chapels,
the head.  Behind the apse, we know from our previous survey, {24} is the Chapel of Henry VII.,
which takes the place of the old Lady Chapel.  The nave is divided into twelve bays, intersected
at the eighth by the choir screen, upon which is placed the organ.  At the twelfth bay, where
the nave properly so called ends, the ritual choir begins, and we can see the sanctuary and
high altar through the open gates.  On either side of the nave beyond the screen are the aisles,
now included, as is all this part at the present time, in the choir.  Look first at the graceful
arcading of the triforium, then higher still from the clerestory windows carry the eye to the
roof, 100 feet above our heads, and thence along the clustered columns and arches straight
in front.  The whole resembles that magnificent and peculiarly English beauty, an ancient beech
avenue with its arching and interlacing boughs reaching up to heaven.  Except to the student
of architecture, the church might have risen from the ground in a single night, so harmonious
and perfectly proportioned are the lines, so carefully did the old builders follow out the
ideas of the thirteenth-century designers.  Henry the Third himself probably supervised the
plans, and we know that the King had already seen and admired Salisbury Cathedral, then quite
a new building, before {25} he arranged to rebuild Westminster in the same style.  As a fact,
no less than two and a half centuries passed from the year 1245, when Henry gave orders for
the demolition of the whole of the eastern end--the same part which the Confessor had watched
grow up and had caused to be consecrated before his death,--till the reign of his collateral
descendant, the first Tudor king, when the last bay was quite finished.  Only an observant
eye can detect the slight differences, chiefly in the vaultings of the roof, which mark the
different stages of the western part, and it is difficult to realise that the old Norman nave,
divided by a wall from the new Gothic church, existed long after Henry's death, and was taken
down bit by bit as the building slowly proceeded.  Edward the First's period is marked by metal
rings round the columns, and only extended one bay west of the present screen, where formerly
the Jesus altars and rood loft stood, with a stone wall behind, which is now concealed by the
wooden casing of the modern screen.  Services for the ordinary worshippers, the parishioners
so to speak, were held by the monks at these altars, above and below the rood screen, but the
lesson, which was read from above, was the only part of the High Mass celebrated in the choir
intended for {26} the congregation in the nave.  With the early fourteenth century the beautiful
diaper work which decorated the triforium arcades ceased, and this helps us to fix the date
of the later part.  During the century which followed, the building practically stood still
for a long time. Edward II. gave the monks no help, and Edward III. was too poor and too busy
with his numerous wars to occupy himself with pious donations.  But at the end of his reign
Archbishop Langham, formerly the Abbot here, left a large bequest, primarily intended for the
completion of the nave, which was diverted by his successor Litlington to more pressing needs,
such as the rebuilding of the monastery, enlarging the cloisters, and, with the help of gifts
from Richard II., the addition of a rich porch outside the north front.  Henry IV. died in
the precincts, but we have no record of any generosity on his part; his son Henry V., however,
gave an annual sum to the work on the nave, which during his short reign progressed well. The
pious Henry VI., who loved the Abbey and often walked here with the Abbot and Prior, no doubt
helped as long as he had the power, but the civil wars soon put a stop to his aid.  We know
that he presented the wrought-iron gates which divide his father's {27} mortuary chapel from
the shrine, and the stone screen to the west of the shrine probably belongs to his time.  His
supplanter, Edward IV., when settled on the throne, granted oaks and lead for the roof, while
his wife, and the little son who was born in the Abbot's house, gave thank-offerings of money.
Another gap followed during the troublous reign of Richard III., but by the end of the fifteenth
century, when Henry VII. felt his title absolutely secure, and his dynasty established, the
west end was quite finished, within and without, while then, and then only, the last remains
of the old nave were cleared away.

We have thus briefly sketched the building of the church in which we stand, and now must turn
our attention to the historic names which are all around us on the walls and pavement.  The
very earliest monument, the only tolerably artistic one in the nave, was put up in 1631 to
a certain Mistress Jane Hill, and till nearly the end of the seventeenth century few others
were added.  But unfortunately from that time the custom grew apace of covering the wall space,
even the floor itself, with memorials of soldiers, sailors, statesmen, physicians, men of science,
and, in fact, a truly miscellaneous collection of people, till not a vacant spot is left, and
{28} the ancient arcading is completely or partially covered up, in some cases even cut away.
The committee of taste appointed to assist the Chapter were of some use here, for by their
advice the Dean moved one or two monuments from the centre to the wall, and the iron railings
in front of all of them were taken away.  Dean Stanley, more than a century later, curtailed
some of the most aggressive memorials, but none have been removed, for there would be no end
to such a difficult undertaking, and in any case the ancient arcading was already ruined.

Thus we start on our pilgrimage with some idea of the shape and the history of the church which
lies before us.  First let us look into the baptistery called Little Poets' Corner, where Wordsworth's
seated statue and some memorials of literary men are to be seen, such as the great teacher,
Dr. Arnold, who is close to his gifted son Matthew, in the company of three notable divines,
Maurice, Kingsley, and Keble.  The entrance is blocked by two huge eighteenth-century erections,
the one to Cornewall, a valiant sea-captain, put up by Parliament, the other to Craggs, a young
statesman, whose posthumous fame was sullied by his share in the South Sea Bubble.  The elder
Craggs committed suicide {29} when the Bubble burst, but the son died first, and Pope wrote
a wordy epitaph and superintended the erection of the monument.  From this side we turn to
the other tower, but make no exhaustive survey of the "Whig Corner," for statesmen galore are
to be found in the north transept, and we mention the chief of these in connection with their
contemporaries there. The latest name here is that of General Charles Gordon, a bronze given
by the Royal Engineers seven years after the fall of Khartoum, but before the fall of the Mahdi
wiped out England's dishonour.  It is not likely that a Chinaman has joined our party; were
one with us we would point out Gordon's services to the Chinese government and the honours
he received from the Emperor.  There is only one other memorial connected with China (in the
north choir aisle), put up a century ago to Sir George Staunton, who went as Secretary on our
first embassy to China.  His son, a boy of eleven, accompanied him, and actually learned enough
Chinese on the voyage to interpret for the party; he afterwards became a learned Chinese scholar.
We linger yet a moment to point out one of the few German names in the Abbey, William Horneck,
whose father, a Westminster Prebendary, was a German {30} by birth; he was himself one of the
earliest of our Engineers, and won honour in the Duke of Marlborough's campaigns.  When we
reach the south transept we shall see a more familiar German name on the bust of Grabe, the
well-known Oriental scholar.

We pass out now by the statue of a modern philanthropist, Lord Shaftesbury, who fought as energetically
for the freedom of the white slave as did Zachary Macaulay, whose tablet is behind us in the
tower, for that of the black.  Shaftesbury's efforts on behalf of the overworked women and
of the children in mines and factories will never be forgotten, nor is the distinguished statesman
Charles James Fox, whose connection with the abolition of slavery is marked by the tasteless
monument before our eyes, in any danger of oblivion.  The life-size group represents Fox's
dying agony in the arms of Liberty; a negro slave is kneeling at his feet.

If there be any one interested in astronomy amongst us, he should turn round to the tablet
at the extreme west end, which commemorates young Benjamin Horrocks, the first observer of
the transit of Venus in 1639, who was praised by Sir John Herschel as the pride and boast of
modern {31} astronomy.  Herschel's own bust is on the north wall; he lies side by side with
Charles Darwin, near the iron gate.  We now leave the west end and progress up the centre of
the nave, noticing on our way eastward the old wooden pulpit, which has been brought here from
Henry VII.'s Chapel and replaces a heavy marble one given in Dean Trench's time to commemorate
the opening of the nave for evening services.  Trench himself passed from Westminster, as Archbishop
of Dublin, to Ireland, his native country, whither the pulpit has gone, but his body was brought
back to England, and his grave is beneath our feet.  Behind it the name of the American philanthropist,
George Peabody, whose mortal remains rested in the Abbey for a few days only, reminds all Londoners
of the original Peabody buildings, the first working-class dwellings on the block system, which
were founded by him and called after his name.

A few steps further and we stand above the grave of David Livingstone, another ardent worker
for the black man's cause, a personality dear to white and black alike.  Should some traveller
from South Africa be with us, he will be familiar with Livingstone's work amongst the natives
and the opposition he met with from the ignorant Boer {32} farmers, who could not understand
his enthusiasm for the coloured race.  He lost his life for their cause, and so greatly was
he loved by his "boys" that two of them carried the body through hardships and dangers innumerable
across the continent of Africa to the West Coast, where it was shipped for England and finally
brought safely here.  Immediately in front, to our left, we see the names of engineers and
architects.  To the engineers we allude later; of two architects, Scott and Pearson, we have
already spoken, and may pass on to the men who crushed the Indian Mutiny, first, however, pointing
out the brass of Barry, the designer of the present Houses of Parliament.  Sir James Outram,
Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde, and John, Lord Lawrence, rest in close proximity to one another,
even as they worked together for a common object in India.  On Outram's monument, which is
against the right-hand wall, near Lawrence's bust, is represented the meeting of the three
Generals, Outram, Havelock, and Campbell, when the latter finally relieved the Lucknow Residency,
a task bravely attempted by the two former, who were themselves beleaguered after bringing
in stores and ammunition to the garrison.  Lord Wolseley's recent Autobiography has vividly
recalled the whole scene, and {33} bears witness also to the valour of many a forgotten hero,
with most of whom he had previously fought in the Crimea.  Seven of these officers are commemorated
by the very inharmonious painted glass below the rose window of the north transept; amongst
them may be mentioned in this connection Lord Clyde's brigadier, Adrian Hope, who took a foremost
part in the relief of Lucknow, and was killed during the subsequent reconquest of Oude.  While
Clyde may be styled the conqueror of Oude, Lord Lawrence, a civilian not a soldier by profession,
performed the task of reducing the Punjab.  In the north transept is the bust of Sir Herbert
Edwardes, who co-operated with the Lawrence brothers at the outbreak of the Mutiny, and continued
to support John in his arduous work after Henry's death at Lucknow.  Ten years before the Mutiny,
Edwardes had already won undying fame in the same district, the Punjab, when he stamped out
the Multan rebellion, and prevented that dangerous conflagration from assuming serious proportions.
A grave west of Clyde's, that of Sir George Pollock, is a reminder of another part of our Indian
Empire--an ever-present source of anxiety--Afghanistan, where Pollock retrieved England's lost
prestige after the Cabul disaster.

{34}

Buried, as he would have wished, amongst these men of action is a sailor, who resembled the
free-booters and fighting seamen of the Elizabethan age.  Cochrane's feats of valour when in
our navy surpassed those of all his contemporaries, but a charge of betraying the country which
he had served so well, drove him into exile in 1814.  His activity found new scope abroad,
and his memory is honoured by Brazil and Chili alike as the founder of their navies; for the
past few years Chilian sailors have laid a wreath annually upon his tomb.  The stain was removed
from Lord Dundonald's name before his death, and he was laid, as was justly due, amongst his
compeers; his banner and arms were long afterwards restored to their places with those of the
other Knights of the Bath, in Henry VII.'s Chapel.

Immediately before us now, on either side of the choir screen, two eighteenth-century monuments
attract attention.  The one to the right commemorates several of the Earls Stanhope, notably
the first Earl, whose dashing valour might well be compared with Dundonald's, but whose military
career ended in disaster and imprisonment.  The feat usually connected with his name is a brilliant
charge of cavalry at Almenara, one of the battles in the Peninsular War, when he killed a Spanish
general {35} in single combat.  On the left is a man of peace, Sir Isaac Newton, whose discovery
of the law of gravitation brought him world-wide fame, and whose reputation as a natural philosopher
and mathematician was unrivalled in his generation.  His funeral was attended by "the chief
men of the nation," and many distinguished foreigners; amongst them was the French philosopher,
Voltaire, who carried his enthusiasm for Newton to such a height that he placed the English
scientist at the head of all the geniuses in the universe.  Those who are familiar with Roubiliac's
portrait-statue at Trinity College, Cambridge, will note the extreme inferiority of this one
(Rysbrack's), which represents the great Newton reclining on a couch, wrapped in a dressing-gown,
and surrounded by the allegorical figures and emblems so dear to eighteenth-century artists.

It is well now to shape our course towards the east, turning to the right aisle, but ere we
reach the iron gate, one or two memorials call for some remark.  Thus our long wars with the
Moors are brought to mind by Sir Palmes Fairborne's tablet, upon which is inscribed a bombastic
epitaph usually attributed to Dryden.  Fairborne, as Governor of Tangier, fought valiantly
for a losing cause, and {36} three years after his death, the place, which had passed into
the possession of the English Crown as part of the dowry of Charles the Second's queen, Catherine
of Braganza, was finally abandoned to the Moors.  Fairborne is not the only Englishman in the
Abbey whose prowess against these black races is worthy of remembrance, but while he bore a
Turk's head for his crest as a proof of his early valour in Candia, the other knight, Sir Bernard
Brocas, rests his head upon that of a crowned Moor.  No record remains of the doughty deed
which caused Edward III. to grant Brocas this special crest, but the vergers in Addison's time
used to point out his tomb, which we shall see presently in St. Edmund's Chapel, as that of
"the old Knight who cut off the King of the Moors's head." The illustration shows part of the
Duchess of Suffolk's altar tomb with her recumbent effigy, while beyond, Prince John of Eltham's
monument is partly visible against the screen; above the screen are the canopies over the tombs
of Richard II. and his Queen, and Edward III.  The red velvet pall over the shrine of Edward
the Confessor shows between the canopy and tomb of Edward III.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Our friends from the States will certainly pause before the monument of that ill-fated young
British officer, Major André, for upon it is a small figure of General Washington.  André,
caught within the American lines during our war with the colonies, dressed as a civilian, and
with suspicious papers in his boots, was hanged as a spy and buried beneath the gallows.  We
see André here vainly petitioning Washington for a soldier's death, while in the background
all is prepared for his ignominious {37} fate.  The heads of both these statuettes were constantly
stolen by tourists in old days, as far back in fact as the time of Lamb, and a fresh supply
was always kept in stock by the Clerk of the Works.  Andre's bones, brought back to his native
country, forty-one years after his death, by a royal prince, were buried near the monument,
which was erected earlier at the expense of George III.

Beyond the gate, to our left, another pictorial monument appeals to Londoner and countryman
alike, for here is represented the assassination of Tom of the Ten Thousand, a younger member
of that well-known Dorset family the Thynnes, Marquesses of Bath.  His murderers were hired
by a notorious foreign count who desired to gain Thynne's rich young bride for his own wife,
but failed to persuade the lady to recognise his claims. The cockney gazes in wonder at Pall
Mall as it appeared in 1682, when it was a lonely road between meadows, where highwaymen were
apt to demand your money or your life.  The Welshman, if one be here, is pleased to recognise
a countryman in the coachman, whose descendants long boasted that their ancestor was to be
seen in the Abbey, on the box of Squire Thynne's carriage.  A little further is the recumbent
tomb of one {38} of the same family, William Thynne, who was Receiver of the Marches for many
years under the Tudor sovereigns.  As yet we have been unable to single out one of the many
sailors whose memorials surround us in the nave, but now we are brought up short, so to speak,
by a monstrous figure with a huge periwig and lolling on cushions, which, we are almost ashamed
to explain, is meant for one of our most noted eighteenth-century admirals, Sir Cloudesley
Shovel to wit.

It is better to distract attention to the bas-relief of the wreck below, and relate the story
of Shovel's youthful valour, when he swam from ship to ship under fire carrying despatches
in his mouth, for all the world like a Newfoundland dog.  The strange and tragic history of
his end must also be retold, when the flagship was wrecked on the treacherous Scilly rocks,
and the Admiral's unconscious body received the coup de grâce from a callous fishwife, who
stole his signet ring, and after concealing it for thirty years, confessed her crime and returned
the ring to Shovel's representatives on her deathbed.  No less wanting in taste is the monument
above to Sir Godfrey Kneller, the painter of simpering beauties at the Courts of five sovereigns,
from Charles II. to George I., and the only memorial to {39} an artist, with the exception
of Ruskin, in the whole Abbey.  Kneller swore a mighty oath that he would not be buried at
Westminster, "They do bury fools there," he grumbled, but he himself designed his most inartistic
cenotaph, while his friend Pope wrote the epitaph, which begins with the extravagant line:
"Kneller by Heaven and not a master taught."

While most of our party are attracted towards the last two conspicuous monuments, the Non-conformists,
should any be amongst us, are sure to linger by the mural tablet, with medallion portrait heads,
which Dean Stanley allowed the Wesleyans to put here in memory of the brothers John and Charles
Wesley.  Upon it are the appropriate words: "I look upon all the world as my parish," which
John Wesley literally interpreted.  Near by was already the memorial to Dr. Isaac Watts, the
great dissenting minister of an earlier generation, whose hymns are still popular in church
and chapel alike, as are to a greater degree those of Charles Wesley.

To a Frenchman or Italian a humbler tablet on the opposite side with a long inscription is
of more interest, for it commemorates Pasquale de Paoli, the champion of Corsican independence,
{40} who took refuge in England, the home of liberty, and died here in 1807.  The ladies, leaving
the men to their study of the seamen and soldiers, with whose names the walls are covered,
ask for information about the bust of a young woman, just beyond Paoli.  Grace Gethin, although
the only authoress in the Abbey who has a monument to herself,--for the learned Margaret, Duchess
of Newcastle, shares her husband's tomb in the north transept,--has no real claim to this distinction.
Her immortal work, which she bequeathed to an admiring circle of blue-stockings, proved to
be a mere book of extracts culled from popular writers.  The playwright, Congreve, whose own
medallion is below the Abbot's Pew in the nave, showed his want of literary cultivation by
not only composing a poem in praise of the young writer, but allowing it to be published as
a preface to the book, which went through several editions before the fraud was discovered.
The annual sermon, which was long preached in the Abbey in memory of the youthful heiress (she
was only twenty-one) who left a bequest for the purpose in her will, has become a thing of
the past.

While the artistic persons with us have been bewailing the ruthless destruction of the wall
{41} arcading and will have cause to lament still louder in the transepts, the student of heraldry
is attracted to some defaced shields which repay a closer attention, and have helped antiquaries
to fix the dates of the choir and nave.  The Confessor's, with the familiar five birds, and
Henry the Third's arms with three lions are easily identified in this aisle, and the learned
in such matters point out many others, chiefly the coats of Henry's relations, such as his
father-in-law, Raymond de Beranger, Count of Provence, and his brother Richard, King of the
Romans, one of the royal princes selected to carry St. Edward's coffin from the palace to the
new shrine.

We have now reached the crossing, and should all our party desire to make an exhaustive circuit
of the church to-day, the south transept is our next goal.  When time presses it is wisest
for the guide to pause here, merely point out the Statesmen's Aisle and the Poets' Corner,
and then pass on at once through the iron gates to the royal chapels.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

             *      *      *      *

INTERIOR OF THE SOUTH TRANSEPT

The illustration shows the south transept proper, looking towards the great rose window.  On
our right we see the historical side, to our left is Poets' Corner; from here the statue of
Shakespeare is the most conspicuous, standing out from the mass of other memorials which commemorate
poets and literary men.  The glass in the window above and the lights below it are quite modern,
placed there as a memorial to the late Duke of Westminster in 1902.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

