Dr. McCrie's review may be read, or at least may be found, in the fourth volume of his collected
works (Blackwood, Edinburgh 1857). The critique amounts to about eighty-five thousand words.
Since the "Princesse de Cleves" was reviewed in a book as long as the original, never was so
lengthy a criticism. As Dr. McCrie's performance scarcely shares the popularity of "Old Mortality,"
a note on his ideas may not be superfluous, though space does not permit a complete statement
of his many objections. The Doctor begins by remarks on novels in general, then descends to
the earlier Waverley romances. "The Antiquary" he pronounces to be "tame and fatiguing." Acknowledging
the merits of the others, he finds fault with "the foolish lines" (from Burns), "which must
have been foisted without the author's knowledge into the title page," and he denounces the
"bad taste" of the quotation from "Don Quixote." Burns and Cervantes had done no harm to Dr.
McCrie, but his anger was aroused, and he, like the McCallum More as described by Andrew Fairservice,
"got up wi' an unto' bang, and garr'd them a' look about them." The view of the Covenanters
is "false and distorted." These worthies are not to be "abused with profane wit or low buffoonery."
"Prayers were not read in the parish churches of Scotland" at that time. As Episcopacy was
restored when Charles II. returned "upon the unanimous petition of the Scottish Parliament"
(Scott's Collected Works, vol. xix. p. 78) it is not unnatural for the general reader to suppose
that prayers would be read by the curates. Dr. McCrie maintains that "at the Restoration neither
the one nor the other" (neither the Scotch nor English Prayer Books) "was imposed," and that
the Presbyterians repeatedly "admitted they had no such grievance." No doubt Dr. McCrie is
correct. But Mr. James Guthrie, who was executed on June 1, 1661, said in his last speech,
"Oh that there were not many who study to build again what they did formerly unwarrantably
destroy: I mean Prelacy and the Service Book, a mystery of iniquity that works amongst us,
whose steps lead unto the house of the great Whore, Babylon, the mother of fornication," and
so forth. Either this mystery of iniquity, the Book of Common Prayer, "was working amongst
us," or it was not. If it was not, of what did Mr. Guthrie complain? If it was "working," was
read by certain curates, as by Burnet, afterwards Bishop of Salisbury, at Saltoun, Scott is
not incorrect. He makes Morton, in danger of death, pray in the words of the Prayer Book, "a
circumstance which so enraged his murderers that they determined to precipitate his fate."
Dr. McCrie objects to this incident, which is merely borrowed, one may conjecture, from the
death of Archbishop Sharpe. The assassins told the Archbishop that they would slay him. "Hereupon
he began to think of death. But (here are just the words of the person who related the story)
behold! God did not give him the grace to pray to Him without the help of a book. But he pulled
out of his pocket a small book, and began to read over some words to himself, which filled
us with amazement and indignation." So they fired their pistols into the old man, and then
chopped him up with their swords, supposing that he had a charm against bullets!  Dr. McCrie
seems to have forgotten, or may have disbelieved the narrative telling how Sharpe's use of
the Prayer Book, like Morton's, "enraged" his murderers. The incident does not occur in the
story of the murder by Russell, one of the murderers, a document published in C. K. Sharpe's
edition of Kirkton. It need not be true, but it may have suggested the prayer of Morton.

If Scott thought that the Prayer Book was ordained to be read in Scotch churches, he was wrong;
if he merely thought that it might have been read in some churches, was "working amongst us,"
he was right: at least, according to Mr. James Guthrie.

Dr. McCrie argues that Burley would never have wrestled with a soldier in an inn, especially
in the circumstances. This, he says, was inconsistent with Balfour's "character." Wodrow remarks,
"I cannot hear that this gentleman had ever any great character for religion among those that
knew him, and such were the accounts of him, when abroad, that the reverend ministers of the
Scots congregation at Rotterdam would never allow him to communicate with them." In Scott's
reading of Burley's character, there was a great deal of the old Adam. That such a man should
so resent the insolence of a soldier is far from improbable, and our sympathies are with Burley
on this occasion.

Mause Headrigg is next criticised. Scott never asserted that she was a representative of sober
Presbyterianism. She had long conducted herself prudently, but, when she gave way to her indignation,
she only used such language as we find on many pages of Wodrow, in the mouths of many Covenanters.
Indeed, though Manse is undeniably comic, she also commands as much respect as the Spartan
mother when she bids her only son bear himself boldly in the face of torture. If Scott makes
her grotesque, he also makes her heroic. But Dr. McCrie could not endure the ridiculous element,
which surely no fair critic can fail to observe in the speeches of the gallant and courageous,
but not philosophical, members of the Covenant's Extreme Left. Dr. McCrie talks of "the creeping
loyalty of the Cavaliers." "Staggering" were a more appropriate epithet. Both sides were loyal
to principle, both courageous; but the inappropriate and promiscuous scriptural language of
many Covenanters was, and remains, ridiculous. Let us admit that the Covenanters were not averse
to all games. In one or two sermons they illustrate religion by phrases derived from golf!

When Dr. McCrie exclaims, in a rich anger, "Your Fathers!" as if Scott's must either have been
Presbyterians or Cavaliers, the retort is cleverly put by Sir Walter in the mouth of Jedediah.
His ancestors of these days had been Quakers, and persecuted by both parties.

Throughout the novel Scott keeps insisting that the Presbyterians had been goaded into rebellion,
and even into revenge, by cruelty of persecution, and that excesses and bloodthirstiness were
confined to the "High Flyers," as the milder Covenanters called them. Morton represents the
ideal of a good Scot in the circumstances. He comes to be ashamed of his passive attitude in
the face of oppression. He stands up for "that freedom from stripes and bondage" which was
claimed, as you may read in Scripture, by the Apostle Paul, and which every man who is free-born
is called upon to defend, for his own sake and that of his countrymen. The terms demanded by
Morton from Monmouth before the battle of Bothwell Bridge are such as Scott recognises to be
fair. Freedom of worship, and a free Parliament, are included.

Dr. McCrie's chief charges are that Scott does not insist enough on the hardships and brutalities
of the persecution, and that the ferocity of the Covenanters is overstated. He does not admit
that the picture drawn of "the more rigid Presbyterians" is just. But it is almost impossible
to overstate the ferocity of the High Flyers' conduct and creed. Thus Wodrow, a witness not
quite unfriendly to the rigid Presbyterians, though not high-flying enough for Patrick Walker,
writes "Mr. Tate informs me that he had this account front Mr. Antony Shau, and others of the
Indulged; that at some time, under the Indulgence, there was a meeting of some people, when
they resolved in one night . . . to go to every house of the Indulged Ministers and kill them,
and all in one night." This anecdote was confirmed by Mr. John Millar, to whose father's house
one of these High Flyers came, on this errand. This massacre was not aimed at the persecutors,
but at the Poundtexts. As to their creed, Wodrow has an anecdote of one of his own elders,
who told a poor woman with many children that "it would be an uncouth mercy" if they were all
saved.

A pleasant evangel was this, and peacefully was it to have been propagated!

Scott was writing a novel, not history. In "The Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border" (1802-3)
Sir Walter gave this account of the persecutions. "Had the system of coercion been continued
until our day, Blair and Robertson would have preached in the wilderness, and only discovered
their powers of eloquence and composition by rolling along a deeper torrent of gloomy fanaticism.
. . . The genius of the persecuted became stubborn, obstinate, and ferocious." He did not,
in his romance, draw a complete picture of the whole persecution, but he did show, by that
insolence of Bothwell at Milnwood, which stirs the most sluggish blood, how the people were
misused. This scene, to Dr. McCrie's mind, is "a mere farce," because it is enlivened by Manse's
declamations. Scott displays the abominable horrors of the torture as forcibly as literature
may dare to do. But Dr. McCrie is not satisfied, because Macbriar, the tortured man, had been
taken in arms. Some innocent person should have been put in the Boot, to please Dr. McCrie.
He never remarks that Macbriar conquers our sympathy by his fortitude. He complains of what
the Covenanters themselves called "the language of Canaan," which is put into their mouths,
"a strange, ridiculous, and incoherent jargon compounded of Scripture phrases, and cant terms
peculiar to their own party opinions in ecclesiastical politics." But what other language did
many of them speak? "Oh, all ye that can pray, tell all the Lord's people to try, by mourning
and prayer, if ye can taigle him, taigle him especially in Scotland, for we fear, he will depart
from it." This is the theology of a savage, in the style of a clown, but it is quoted by Walker
as Mr. Alexander Peden's.' Mr. John Menzie's "Testimony" (1670) is all about "hardened men,
whom though they walk with you for the present with horns of a lamb, yet afterward ye may hear
them speak with the mouth of a dragon, pricks in your eyes and thorns in your sides." Manse
Headrigg scarcely caricatures this eloquence, or Peden's "many and long seventy-eight years
left-hand defections, and forty-nine years right-hand extremes;" while "Professor Simson in
Glasgow, and Mr. Glass in Tealing, both with Edom's children cry Raze, raze the very foundation!"
Dr. McCrie is reduced to supposing that some of the more absurd sermons were incorrectly reported.
Very possibly they were, but the reports were in the style which the people liked. As if to
remove all possible charge of partiality, Scott made the one faultless Christian of his tale
a Covenanting widow, the admirable Bessie McLure. But she, says the doctor, "repeatedly banns
and minces oaths in her conversation." This outrageous conduct of Bessie's consists in saying
"Gude protect us!" and "In Heaven's name, who are ye?" Next the Doctor congratulates Scott
on his talent for buffoonery. "Oh, le grand homme, rien ne lui peut plaire." Scott is later
accused of not making his peasants sufficiently intelligent.  Cuddie Headrigg and Jenny Dennison
suffice as answers to this censure.

Probably the best points made by Dr. McCrie are his proof that biblical names were not common
among the Covenanteers and that Episcopal eloquence and Episcopal superstition were often as
tardy and as dark as the eloquence and superstition of the Presbyterians. He carries the war
into the opposite camp, with considerable success. His best answer to "Old Mortality" would
have been a novel, as good and on the whole as fair, written from the Covenanting side. Hogg
attempted this reply, not to Scott's pleasure according to the Shepherd, in "The Brownie of
Bodsbeck." The Shepherd says that when Scott remarked that the "Brownie" gave an untrue description
of the age, he replied, "It's a devilish deal truer than yours!" Scott, in his defence, says
that to please the friends of the Covenanters, "their portraits must be drawn without shadow,
and the objects of their political antipathy be blackened, hooved, and horned ere they will
acknowledge the likeness of either." He gives examples of clemency, and even considerateness,
in Dundee; for example, he did not bring with him a prisoner, "who laboured under a disease
rendering it painful to him to be on horseback." He examines the story of John Brown, and disproves
the blacker circumstances. Yet he appears to hold that Dundee should have resigned his commission
rather than carry out the orders of Government? Burley's character for ruthlessness is defended
by the evidence of the "Scottish Worthies." As Dr. McCrie objects to his "buffoonery," it is
odd that he palliates the "strong propensity" of Knox "to indulge his vein of humour," when
describing, with ghoul-like mirth, the festive circumstances of the murder and burial of Cardinal
Beaton. The odious part of his satire, Scott says, is confined to "the fierce and unreasonable
set of extra-Presbyterians," Wodrow's High Flyers. "We have no delight to dwell either upon
the atrocities or absurdities of a people whose ignorance and fanaticism were rendered frantic
by persecution." To sum up the controversy, we may say that Scott was unfair, if at all, in
tone rather than in statement. He grants to the Covenanters dauntless resolution and fortitude;
he admits their wrongs; we cannot see, on the evidence of their literature, that he exaggerates
their grotesqueness, their superstition, their impossible attitude as of Israelites under a
Theocracy, which only existed as an ideal, or their ruthlessness on certain occasions. The
books of Wodrow, Kirkton, and Patrick Walker, the sermons, the ghost stories, the dying speeches,
the direct testimony of their own historians, prove all that Scott says, a hundred times over.
The facts are correct, the testimony to the presence of another, an angelic temper, remains
immortal in the figure of Bessie McLure. But an unfairness of tone may be detected in the choice
of such names as Kettledrummle and Poundtext: probably the "jog-trot" friends of the Indulgence
have more right to complain than the "high-flying" friends of the Covenant. Scott had Cavalier
sympathies, as Macaulay had Covenanting sympathies. That Scott is more unjust to the Covenanters
than Macaulay to Claverhouse historians will scarcely maintain. Neither history or fiction
would be very delightful if they were warless.  This must serve as an apology more needed by
Macaulay--than by Sir Walter. His reply to Dr. McCrie is marked by excellent temper, humour,
and good humor. The "Quarterly Review" ends with the well known reference to his brother Tom's
suspected authorship: "We intended here to conclude this long article, when a strong report
reached us of certain transatlantic confessions, which, if genuine (though of this we know
nothing), assign a different author to those volumes than the party suspected by our Scottish
correspondents. Yet a critic may be excused for seizing upon the nearest suspected person,
or the principle happily expressed by Claverhouse in a letter to the Earl of Linlithgow. He
had been, it seems, in search of a gifted weaver who used to hold forth at conventicles: 'I
sent for the webster, they brought in his brother for him: though he, maybe, cannot preach
like his brother, I doubt not but he is as well principled as he, wherefore I thought it would
be no great fault to give him the trouble to go to jail with the rest.'"

Nobody who read this could doubt that Scott was, at least, "art and part" in the review. His
efforts to disguise himself as an Englishman, aided by a Scotch antiquary, are divertingly
futile. He seized the chance of defending his earlier works from some criticisms on Scotch
manners suggested by the ignorance of Gifford. Nor was it difficult to see that the author
of the review was also the author of the novel. In later years Lady Louisa Stuart reminded
Scott that "Old Mortality," like the Iliad, had been ascribed by clever critics to several
hands working together. On December 5, 1816, she wrote to him, "I found something you wot of
upon my table; and as I dare not take it with me to a friend's house, for fear of arousing
curiosity"--she read it at once. She could not sleep afterwards, so much had she been excited.
"Manse and Cuddie forced me to laugh out aloud, which one seldom does when alone." Many of
the Scotch words "were absolutely Hebrew" to her. She not unjustly objected to Claverhouse's
use of the word "sentimental" as an anachronism. Sentiment, like nerves, had not been invented
in Claverhouse's day.

The pecuniary success of "Old Mortality" was less, perhaps, than might have been expected.
The first edition was only of two thousand copies. Two editions of this number were sold in
six weeks, and a third was printed. Constable's gallant enterprise of ten thousand, in "Rob
Roy," throws these figures into the shade.

"Old Mortality" is the first of Scott's works in which he invades history beyond the range
of what may be called living oral tradition. In "Waverley," and even in "Rob Roy," he had the
memories of Invernahyle, of Miss Nairne, of many persons of the last generation for his guides.
In "Old Mortality" his fancy had to wander among the relics of another age, among the inscribed
tombs of the Covenanters, which are common in the West Country, as in the churchyards of Balmaclellan
and Dalry. There the dust of these enduring and courageous men, like that of Bessie Bell and
Marion Gray in the ballad, "beiks forenenst the sun," which shines on them from beyond the
hills of their wanderings, while the brown waters of the Ken murmur at their feet.

               Here now in peace sweet rest we take,
               Once murdered for religion's sake,

says the epitaph on the flat table-stone, beneath the wind tormented trees of Iron Gray. Concerning
these Manes Presbyteriani, "Guthrie's and Giffan's Passions" and the rest, Scott had a library
of rare volumes full of prophecies, "remarkable Providences," angelic ministrations, diabolical
persecutions by The Accuser of the Brethren,--in fact, all that Covenanteers had written or
that had been written about Covenanteers. "I'll tickle ye off a Covenanter as readily as old
Jack could do a young Prince; and a rare fellow he is, when brought forth in his true colours,"
he says to Terry (November 12, 1816). He certainly was not an unprejudiced witness, some ten
years earlier, when he wrote to Southey, "You can hardly conceive the perfidy, cruelty, and
stupidity of these people, according to the accounts they have themselves preserved. But I
admit I had many prejudices instilled into me, as my ancestor was a Killiecrankie man." He
used to tease Grahame of "The Sabbath," "but never out of his good humour, by praising Dundee,
and laughing at the Covenanters." Even as a boy he had been familiar with that godly company
in "the original edition of the lives of Cameron and others, by Patrick Walker." The more curious
parts of those biographies were excised by the care of later editors, but they may all be found
now in the "Biographia Presbyteriana" (1827), published by True Jock, chief clerk to "Leein'
Johnnie," Mr. John Ballantyne. To this work the inquirer may turn, if he is anxious to see
whether Scott's colouring is correct. The true blue of the Covenant is not dulled in the "Biographia
Presbyteriana."

With all these materials at his command, Scott was able almost to dwell in the age of the Covenant
hence the extraordinary life and brilliance of this, his first essay in fiction dealing with
a remote time and obsolete manners. His opening, though it may seem long and uninviting to
modern readers, is interesting for the sympathetic sketch of the gentle consumptive dominie.
If there was any class of men whom Sir Walter could not away with, it was the race of schoolmasters,
"black cattle" whom he neither trusted nor respected. But he could make or invent exceptions,
as in the uncomplaining and kindly usher of the verbose Cleishbotham. Once launched in his
legend, with the shooting of the Popinjay, he never falters. The gallant, dauntless, overbearing
Bothwell, the dour Burley, the handful of Preachers, representing every current of opinion
in the Covenant, the awful figure of Habakkuk Mucklewrath, the charm of goodness in Bessie
McLure, are all immortal, deathless as Shakspeare's men and women. Indeed here, even more than
elsewhere, we admire the life which Scott breathes into his minor characters, Halliday and
Inglis, the troopers, the child who leads Morton to Burley's retreat in the cave, that auld
Laird Nippy, old Milnwood (a real "Laird Nippy" was a neighbour of Scott's at Ashiestiel),
Ailie Wilson, the kind, crabbed old housekeeper, generous in great things, though habitually
niggardly in things small. Most of these are persons whom we might still meet in Scotland,
as we might meet Cuddie Headrigg--the shrewd, the blithe, the faithful and humorous Cuddie.
As to Miss Jenny Dennison, we can hardly forgive Scott for making that gayest of soubrettes
hard and selfish in married life. He is too severe on the harmless and even beneficent race
of coquettes, who brighten life so much, who so rapidly "draw up with the new pleugh lad,"
and who do so very little harm when all is said. Jenny plays the part of a leal and brave lass
in the siege of Tillietudlem, hunger and terror do not subdue her spirit; she is true, in spite
of many temptations, to her Cuddie, and we decline to believe that she was untrue to his master
and friend. Ikuse, no doubt, is a caricature, though Wodrow makes us acquainted with at least
one Mause, Jean Biggart, who "all the winter over was exceedingly straitened in wrestling and
prayer as to the Parliament, and said that still that place was brought before her, Our hedges
are broken down!" ("Analecta," ii. 173.) Surely even Dr. McCrie must have laughed out loud,
like Lady Louisa Stuart, when Mause exclaims: "Neither will I peace for the bidding of no earthly
potsherd, though it be painted as red as a brick from the tower o' Babel, and ca' itsel' a
corporal." Manse, as we have said, is not more comic than heroic, a mother in that Sparta of
the Covenant. The figure of Morton, as usual, is not very attractive. In his review, Scott
explains the weakness of his heroes as usually strangers in the land (Waverley, Lovel, Mannering,
Osbaldistone), who need to have everything explained to them, and who are less required to
move than to be the pivots of the general movement. But Morton is no stranger in the land.
His political position in the juste milieu is unexciting. A schoolboy wrote to Scott at this
time, "Oh, Sir Walter, how could you take the lady from the gallant Cavalier, and give her
to the crop-eared Covenanter?" Probably Scott sympathised with his young critic, who longed
"to be a feudal chief, and to see his retainers happy around him." But Edith Bellenden loved
Morton, with that love which, as she said, and thought, "disturbs the repose of the dead."
Scott had no choice. Besides, Dr. McCrie might have disapproved of so fortunate an arrangement.
The heroine herself does not live in the memory like Di Vernon; she does not even live like
Jenny Dennison. We remember Corporal Raddlebanes better, the stoutest fighting man of Major
Bellenden's acquaintance; and the lady of Tillietudlem has admirers more numerous and more
constant. The lovers of the tale chiefly engage our interest by the rare constancy of their
affections.

The most disputed character is, of course, that of Claverhouse. There is no doubt that, if
Claverhouse had been a man of the ordinary mould, he would never have reckoned so many enthusiastic
friends in future ages. But Beauty, which makes Helen immortal, had put its seal on Bonny Dundee.
With that face "which limners might have loved to paint, and ladies to look upon," he still
conquers hearts from his dark corner above the private staircase in Sir Walter's deserted study.
He was brave, he was loyal when all the world forsook his master; in that reckless age of revelry
he looks on with the austere and noble contempt which he wears in Hell among the tippling shades
of Cavaliers. He died in the arms of victory, but he lives among

                         The chiefs of ancient names
     Who swore to fight and die beneath the banner of King James,
     And he fell in Killiecrankie Pass, the glory of the Grahames.

Sentiment in romance, not in history, may be excused for pardoning the rest.

Critics of the time, as Lady Louisa Stuart reminds Sir Walter, did not believe the book was
his, because it lacked his "tedious descriptions." The descriptions, as of the waterfall where
Burley had his den, are indeed far from "tedious." There is a tendency in Scott to exalt into
mountains "his own grey hills," the bosses verdatres as Prosper Merimee called them, of the
Border. But the horrors of such linns as that down which Hab Dab and Davie Dinn "dang the deil"
are not exaggerated.

"Old Mortality" was the last novel written by Scott before the malady which tormented his stoicism
in 1817-1820. Every reader has his own favourite, but few will place this glorious tale lower
than second in the list of his incomparable romances.

ANDREW LANG.

INTRODUCTION TO THE TALES OF MY LANDLORD.

As I may, without vanity, presume that the name and official description prefixed to this Proem
will secure it, from the sedate and reflecting part of mankind, to whom only I would be understood
to address myself, such attention as is due to the sedulous instructor of youth, and the careful
performer of my Sabbath duties, I will forbear to hold up a candle to the daylight, or to point
out to the judicious those recommendations of my labours which they must necessarily anticipate
from the perusal of the title-page. Nevertheless, I am not unaware, that, as Envy always dogs
Merit at the heels, there may be those who will whisper, that albeit my learning and good principles
cannot (lauded be the heavens) be denied by any one, yet that my situation at Gandercleugh
hath been more favourable to my acquisitions in learning than to the enlargement of my views
of the ways and works of the present generation. To the which objection, if, peradventure,
any such shall be started, my answer shall be threefold:

