We also found difficulties about the capturing of guns. At first we had merely provided that
a gun was captured when it was out of action and four men of the opposite force were within
six inches of it, but we found a number of cases for which this rule was too vague. A gun,
for example, would be disabled and left with only three men within six inches; the enemy would
then come up eight or ten strong within six inches on the other side, but not really reaching
the gun. At the next move the original possessor of the gun would bring up half a dozen men
within six inches. To whom did the gun belong? By the original wording of our rule, it might
be supposed to belong to the attack which had never really touched the gun yet, and they could
claim to turn it upon its original side. We had to meet a number of such cases. We met them
by requiring the capturing force--or, to be precise, four men of it--actually to pass the axle
of the gun before it could be taken.

All sorts of odd little difficulties arose too, connected with the use of the guns as a shelter
from fire, and very exact rules had to be made to avoid tilting the nose and raising the breech
of a gun in order to use it as cover....

We still found it difficult to introduce any imitation into our game of either retreat or the
surrender of men not actually taken prisoners in a melee. Both things were possible by the
rules, but nobody did them because there was no inducement to do them. Games were apt to end
obstinately with the death or capture of the last man. An inducement was needed. This we contrived
by playing not for the game but for points, scoring the result of each game and counting the
points towards the decision of a campaign. Our campaign was to our single game what a rubber
is to a game of whist. We made the end of a war 200, 300, or 400 or more points up, according
to the number of games we wanted to play, and we scored a hundred for each battle won, and
in addition 1 for each infantry-man, 1-1/2 for each cavalry-man, 10 for each gun, 1/2 for each
man held prisoner by the enemy, and 1/2 for each prisoner held at the end of the game, subtracting
what the antagonist scored by the same scale. Thus, when he felt the battle was hopelessly
lost, he had a direct inducement to retreat any guns he could still save and surrender any
men who were under the fire of the victors' guns and likely to be slaughtered, in order to
minimise the score against him. And an interest was given to a skilful retreat, in which the
loser not only saved points for himself but inflicted losses upon the pursuing enemy.

At first we played the game from the outset, with each player's force within sight of his antagonist;
then we found it possible to hang a double curtain of casement cloth from a string stretched
across the middle of the field, and we drew this back only after both sides had set out their
men. Without these curtains we found the first player was at a heavy disadvantage, because
he displayed all his dispositions before his opponent set down his men.

And at last our rules have reached stability, and we regard them now with the virtuous pride
of men who have persisted in a great undertaking and arrived at precision after much tribulation.
There is not a piece of constructive legislation in the world, not a solitary attempt to meet
a complicated problem, that we do not now regard the more charitably for our efforts to get
a right result from this apparently easy and puerile business of fighting with tin soldiers
on the floor.

And so our laws all made, battles have been fought, the mere beginnings, we feel, of vast campaigns.
The game has become in a dozen aspects extraordinarily like a small real battle. The plans
are made, the Country hastily surveyed, and then the curtains are closed, and the antagonists
make their opening dispositions. Then the curtains are drawn back and the hostile forces come
within sight of each other; the little companies and squadrons and batteries appear hurrying
to their positions, the infantry deploying into long open lines, the cavalry sheltering in
reserve, or galloping with the guns to favourable advance positions.

In two or three moves the guns are flickering into action, a cavalry melee may be in progress,
the plans of the attack are more or less apparent, here are men pouring out from the shelter
of a wood to secure some point of vantage, and here are troops massing among farm buildings
for a vigorous attack. The combat grows hot round some vital point. Move follows move in swift
succession. One realises with a sickening sense of error that one is outnumbered and hard pressed
here and uselessly cut off there, that one's guns are ill-placed, that one's wings are spread
too widely, and that help can come only over some deadly zone of fire.

So the fight wears on. Guns are lost or won, hills or villages stormed or held; suddenly it
grows clear that the scales are tilting beyond recovery, and the loser has nothing left but
to contrive how he may get to the back line and safety with the vestiges of his command....

But let me, before I go on to tell of actual battles and campaigns, give here a summary of
our essential rules.

III

THE RULES

HERE, then, are the rules of the perfect battle-game as we play it in an ordinary room.

THE COUNTRY

(1) The Country must be arranged by one player, who, failing any other agreement, shall be
selected by the toss of a coin.

(2) The other player shall then choose which side of the field he will fight from.

(3) The Country must be disturbed as little as possible in each move. Nothing in the Country
shall be moved or set aside deliberately to facilitate the firing of guns. A player must not
lie across the Country so as to crush or disturb the Country if his opponent objects. Whatever
is moved by accident shall be replaced after the end of the move.

THE MOVE

(1) After the Country is made and the sides chosen, then (and not until then) the players shall
toss for the first move.

(2) If there is no curtain, the player winning the toss, hereafter called the First Player,
shall next arrange his men along his back line, as he chooses. Any men he may place behind
or in front of his back line shall count in the subsequent move as if they touched the back
line at its nearest point. The Second Player shall then do the same. But if a curtain is available
both first and second player may put down their men at the same time. Both players may take
unlimited time for the putting down of their men; if there is a curtain it is drawn back when
they are ready, and the game then begins.

(3) The subsequent moves after the putting down are timed. The length of time given for each
move is determined by the size of the forces engaged. About a minute should be allowed for
moving 30 men and a minute for each gun. Thus for a force of 110 men and 3 guns, moved by one
player, seven minutes is an ample allowance. As the battle progresses and the men are killed
off, the allowance is reduced as the players may agree. The player about to move stands at
attention a yard behind his back line until the timekeeper says "Go." He then proceeds to make
his move until time is up. He must instantly stop at the cry of "Time." Warning should be given
by the timekeeper two minutes, one minute, and thirty seconds before time is up. There will
be an interval before the next move, during which any disturbance of the Country can be rearranged
and men accidentally overturned replaced in a proper attitude. This interval must not exceed
five or four minutes, as may be agreed upon.

(4) Guns must not be fired before the second move of the first player--not counting the "putting
down" as a move. Thus the first player puts down, then the second player, the first player
moves, then the second player, and the two forces are then supposed to come into effective
range of each other and the first player may open fire if he wishes to do so.

(5) In making his move a player must move or fire his guns if he wants to do so, before moving
his men. To this rule of "Guns First" there is to be no exception.

(6) Every soldier may be moved and every gun moved or fired at each move, subject to the following
rules:

MOBILITY OF THE VARIOUS ARMS

(Each player must be provided with two pieces of string, one two feet in length and the other
six inches.)

(I) An infantry-man may be moved a foot or any less distance at each move.

(II) A cavalry-man may be moved two feet or any less distance at each move.

(III) A gun is in action if there are at least four men of its own side within six inches of
it. If there are not at least four men within that distance, it can neither be moved nor fired.

(IV) If a gun is in action it can either be moved or fired at each move, but not both. If it
is fired, it may fire as many as four shots in each move. It may be swung round on its axis
(the middle point of its wheel axle) to take aim, provided the Country about it permits; it
may be elevated or depressed, and the soldiers about it may, at the discretion of the firer,
be made to lie down in their places to facilitate its handling. Moreover, soldiers who have
got in front of the fire of their own guns may lie down while the guns fire over them. At the
end of the move the gun must be left without altering its elevation and pointing in the direction
of the last shot. And after firing, two men must be placed exactly at the end of the trail
of the gun, one on either side in a line directly behind the wheels. So much for firing. If
the gun is moved and not fired, then at least four men who are with the gun must move up with
it to its new position, and be placed within six inches of it in its new position. The gun
itself must be placed trail forward and the muzzle pointing back in the direction from which
it came, and so it must remain until it is swung round on its axis to fire. Obviously the distance
which a gun can move will be determined by the men it is with; if there are at least four cavalry-men
with it, they can take the gun two feet, but if there are fewer cavalry-men than four and the
rest infantry, or no cavalry and all infantry, the gun will be movable only one foot.

(V) Every man must be placed fairly clear of hills, buildings, trees, guns, etc. He must not
be jammed into interstices, and either player may insist upon a clear distance between any
man and any gun or other object of at least one-sixteenth of an inch. Nor must men be packed
in contact with men. A space of one-sixteenth of an inch should be kept between them.

(VI) When men are knocked over by a shot they are dead, and as many men are dead as a shot
knocks over or causes to fall or to lean so that they would fall if unsupported. But if a shot
strikes a man but does not knock him over, he is dead, provided the shot has not already killed
a man. But a shot cannot kill more than one man without knocking him over, and if it touches
several without oversetting them, only the first touched is dead and the others are not incapacitated.
A shot that rebounds from or glances off any object and touches a man, kills him; it kills
him even if it simply rolls to his feet, subject to what has been said in the previous sentence.

HAND-TO-HAND FIGHTING AND CAPTURING

(1) A man or a body of men which has less than half its own number of men on its own side within
a move of it, is said to be isolated. But if there is at least half its number of men of its
own side within a move of it, it is not isolated; it is supported.

(2) Men may be moved up into virtual contact (one-eighth of an inch or closer) with men of
the opposite side. They must then be left until the end of the move.

(3) At the end of the move, if there are men of the side that has just moved in contact with
any men of the other side, they constitute a melee. All the men in contact, and any other men
within six inches of the men in contact, measuring from any point of their persons, weapons,
or horses, are supposed to take part in the melee. At the end of the move the two players examine
the melee and dispose of the men concerned according to the following rules:--

Either the numbers taking part in the melee on each side are equal or unequal.

(a) If they are equal, all the men on both sides are killed.

(b) If they are unequal, then the inferior force is either isolated or (measuring from the
points of contact) not isolated.

(i) If it is isolated (see (1) above), then as many men become prisoners as the inferior force
is less in numbers than the superior force, and the rest kill each a man and are killed. Thus
nine against eleven have two taken prisoners, and each side seven men dead. Four of the eleven
remain with two prisoners. One may put this in another way by saying that the two forces kill
each other off, man for man, until one force is double the other, which is then taken prisoner.
Seven men kill seven men, and then four are left with two.

(ii) But if the inferior force is not isolated (see (1) above), then each man of the inferior
force kills a man of the superior force and is himself killed.

And the player who has just completed the move, the one who has charged, decides, when there
is any choice, which men in the melee, both of his own and of his antagonist, shall die and
which shall be prisoners or captors.

All these arrangements are made after the move is over, in the interval between the moves,
and the time taken for the adjustment does not count as part of the usual interval for consideration.
It is extra time.

The player next moving may, if he has taken prisoners, move these prisoners. Prisoners may
be sent under escort to the rear or wherever the capturer directs, and one man within six inches
of any number of prisoners up to seven can escort these prisoners and go with them. Prisoners
are liberated by the death of any escort there may be within six inches of them, but they may
not be moved by the player of their own side until the move following that in which the escort
is killed. Directly prisoners are taken they are supposed to be disarmed, and if they are liberated
they cannot fight until they are rearmed. In order to be rearmed they must return to the back
line of their own side. An escort having conducted prisoners to the back line, and so beyond
the reach of liberation, may then return into the fighting line.

Prisoners once made cannot fight until they have returned to their back line. It follows, therefore,
that if after the adjudication of a melee a player moves up more men into touch with the survivors
of this first melee, and so constitutes a second melee, any prisoners made in the first melee
will not count as combatants in the second melee. Thus if A moves up nineteen men into a melee
with thirteen of B's--B having only five in support--A makes six prisoners, kills seven men,
and has seven of his own killed. If, now, B can move up fourteen men into melee with A's victorious
survivors, which he may be able to do by bringing the five into contact, and getting nine others
within six inches of them, no count is made of the six of B's men who are prisoners in the
hands of A. They are disarmed. B, therefore, has fourteen men in the second melee and A twelve,
B makes two prisoners, kills ten of A's men, and has ten of his own killed. But now the six
prisoners originally made by A are left without an escort, and are therefore recaptured by
B. But they must go to B's back line and return before they can fight again. So, as the outcome
of these two melees, there are six of B's men going as released prisoners to his back line
whence they may return into the battle, two of A's men prisoners in the hands of B, one of
B's staying with them as escort, and three of B's men still actively free for action. A, at
a cost of nineteen men, has disposed of seventeen of B's men for good, and of six or seven,
according to whether B keeps his prisoners in his fighting line or not, temporarily.

(4) Any isolated body may hoist the white flag and surrender at any time.

(5) A gun is captured when there is no man whatever of its original side within six inches
of it, and when at least four men of the antagonist side have moved up to it and have passed
its wheel axis going in the direction of their attack. This latter point is important. An antagonist's
gun may be out of action, and you may have a score of men coming up to it and within six inches
of it, but it is not yet captured; and you may have brought up a dozen men all round the hostile
gun, but if there is still one enemy just out of their reach and within six inches of the end
of the trail of the gun, that gun is not captured: it is still in dispute and out of action,
and you may not fire it or move it at the next move. But once a gun is fully captured, it follows
all the rules of your own guns.

VARIETIES OF THE BATTLE-GAME

You may play various types of game.

(1) One is the Fight to the Finish. You move in from any points you like on the back line and
try to kill, capture, or drive over his back line the whole of the enemy's force. You play
the game for points; you score 100 for the victory, and 10 for every gun you hold or are in
a position to take, 1-1/2 for every cavalry-man, 1 for every infantry-man still alive and uncaptured,
1/2 for every man of yours prisoner in the hands of the enemy, and 1/2 for every prisoner you
have taken. If the battle is still undecided when both forces are reduced below fifteen men,
the battle is drawn and the 100 points for victory are divided.

Note--This game can be fought with any sized force, but if it is fought with less than 50 a
side, the minimum must be 10 a side.

(2) The Blow at the Rear game is decided when at least three men of one force reach any point
in the back line of their antagonist. He is then supposed to have suffered a strategic defeat,
and he must retreat his entire force over the back line in six moves, i.e. six of his moves.
Anything left on the field after six moves capitulates to the victor. Points count as in the
preceding game, but this lasts a shorter time and is better adapted to a cramped country with
a short back line. With a long rear line the game is simply a rush at some weak point in the
first player's line by the entire cavalry brigade of the second player. Instead of making the
whole back line available for the Blow at the Rear, the middle or either half may be taken.

(3) In the Defensive Game, a force, the defenders, two-thirds as strong as its antagonist,
tries to prevent the latter arriving, while still a quarter of its original strength, upon
the defender's back line. The Country must be made by one or both of the players before it
is determined which shall be defender. The players then toss for choice of sides, and the winner
of the toss becomes the defender. He puts out his force over the field on his own side, anywhere
up to the distance of one move off the middle line--that is to say, he must not put any man
within one move of the middle line, but he may do so anywhere on his own side of that limit--and
then the loser of the toss becomes first player, and sets out his men a move from his back
line. The defender may open fire forthwith; he need not wait until after the second move of
the first player, as the second player has to do.

COMPOSITION OF FORCES

Except in the above cases, or when otherwise agreed upon, the forces engaged shall be equal
in number and similar in composition. The methods of handicapping are obvious. A slight inequality
(chances of war) may be arranged between equal players by leaving out 12 men on each side and
tossing with a pair of dice to see how many each player shall take of these. The best arrangement
and proportion of the forces is in small bodies of about 20 to 25 infantry-men and 12 to 15
cavalry to a gun. Such a force can maneuver comfortably on a front of 4 or 5 feet. Most of
our games have been played with about 80 infantry, 50 cavalry, 3 or 4 naval guns, and a field
gun on either side, or with smaller proportional forces. We have played excellent games on
an eighteen-foot battlefield with over two hundred men and six guns a side. A player may, of
course, rearrange his forces to suit his own convenience; brigade all or most of his cavalry
into a powerful striking force, or what not. But more guns proportionally lead to their being
put out of action too early for want of men; a larger proportion of infantry makes the game
sluggish, and more cavalry--because of the difficulty of keeping large bodies of this force
under cover--leads simply to early heavy losses by gunfire and violent and disastrous charging.
The composition of a force may, of course, be varied considerably. One good Fight to a Finish
game we tried as follows: We made the Country, tossed for choice, and then drew curtains across
the middle of the field. Each player then selected his force from the available soldiers in
this way: he counted infantry as 1 each, cavalry as 1-1/2, and a gun as 10, and, taking whatever
he liked in whatever position he liked, he made up a total of 150. He could, for instance,
choose 100 infantry and 5 guns, or 100 cavalry and no guns, or 60 infantry, 40 cavalry, and
3 guns. In the result, a Boer-like cavalry force of 80 with 3 guns suffered defeat at the hands
of 110 infantry with 4.

SIZE OF THE SOLDIERS

The soldiers used should be all of one size. The best British makers have standardised sizes,
and sell infantry and cavalry in exactly proportioned dimensions; the infantry being nearly
two inches tall. There is a lighter, cheaper make of perhaps an inch and a half high that is
also available. Foreign-made soldiers are of variable sizes.

IV

THE BATTLE OF HOOK'S FARM

AND now, having given all the exact science of our war game, having told something of the development
of this warfare, let me here set out the particulars of an exemplary game. And suddenly your
author changes. He changes into what perhaps he might have been--under different circumstances.
His inky fingers become large, manly hands, his drooping scholastic back stiffens, his elbows
go out, his etiolated complexion corrugates and darkens, his moustaches increase and grow and
spread, and curl up horribly; a large, red scar, a sabre cut, grows lurid over one eye. He
expands--all over he expands. He clears his throat startlingly, lugs at the still growing ends
of his moustache, and says, with just a faint and fading doubt in his voice as to whether he
can do it, "Yas, Sir!"

Now for a while you listen to General H. G. W., of the Blue Army. You hear tales of victory.
The photographs of the battlefields are by a woman war-correspondent, A. C. W., a daring ornament
of her sex. I vanish. I vanish, but I will return. Here, then, is the story of the battle of
Hook's Farm.

"The affair of Hook's Farm was one of those brisk little things that did so much to build up
my early reputation. I did remarkably well, though perhaps it is not my function to say so.
The enemy was slightly stronger, both in cavalry and infantry, than myself [Footnote: A slight
but pardonable error on the part of the gallant gentleman. The forces were exactly equal.];
he had the choice of position, and opened the ball. Nevertheless I routed him. I had with me
a compact little force of 3 guns, 48 infantry, and 25 horse. My instructions were to clear
up the country to the east of Firely Church.

"We came very speedily into touch. I discovered the enemy advancing upon Hook's Farm and Firely
Church, evidently with the intention of holding those two positions and giving me a warm welcome.
I have by me a photograph or so of the battlefield and also a little sketch I used upon the
field. They will give the intelligent reader a far better idea of the encounter than any so-called
'fine writing' can do.

"The original advance of the enemy was through the open country behind Firely Church and Hook's
Farm; I sighted him between the points marked A A and B B, and his force was divided into two
columns, with very little cover or possibility of communication between them if once the intervening
ground was under fire. I reckoned about 22 to his left and 50 or 60 to his right. [Footnote:
Here again the gallant gentleman errs; this time he magnifies.] Evidently he meant to seize
both Firely Church and Hook's Farm, get his guns into action, and pound my little force to
pieces while it was still practically in the open. He could reach both these admirable positions
before I could hope to get a man there. There was no effective cover whatever upon my right
that would have permitted an advance up to the church, and so I decided to concentrate my whole
force in a rush upon Hook's Farm, while I staved off his left with gun fire. I do not believe
any strategist whatever could have bettered that scheme. My guns were at the points marked
D C E, each with five horsemen, and I deployed my infantry in a line between D and E. The rest
of my cavalry I ordered to advance on Hook's Farm from C. I have shown by arrows on the sketch
the course I proposed for my guns. The gun E was to go straight for its assigned position,
and get into action at once. C was not to risk capture or being put out of action; its exact
position was to be determined by Red's rapidity in getting up to the farm, and it was to halt
and get to work directly it saw any chance of effective fire.

"Red had now sighted us. Throughout the affair he showed a remarkably poor stomach for gun-fire,
and this was his undoing. Moreover, he was tempted by the poorness of our cover on our right
to attempt to outflank and enfilade us there. Accordingly, partly to get cover from our two
central guns and partly to outflank us, he sent the whole of his left wing to the left of Firely
Church, where, except for the gun, it became almost a negligible quantity. The gun came out
between the church and the wood into a position from which it did a considerable amount of
mischief to the infantry on our right, and nearly drove our rightmost gun in upon its supports.
Meanwhile, Red's two guns on his right came forward to Hook's Farm, rather badly supported
by his infantry.

"Once they got into position there I perceived that we should be done for, and accordingly
I rushed every available man forward in a vigorous counter attack, and my own two guns came
lumbering up to the farmhouse corners, and got into the wedge of shelter close behind the house
before his could open fire. His fire met my advance, littering the gentle grass slope with
dead, and then, hot behind the storm of shell, and even as my cavalry gathered to charge his
guns, he charged mine. I was amazed beyond measure at that rush, knowing his sabres to be slightly
outnumbered by mine. In another moment all the level space round the farmhouse was a whirling
storm of slashing cavalry, and then we found ourselves still holding on, with half a dozen
prisoners, and the farmyard a perfect shambles of horses and men. The melee was over. His charge
had failed, and, after a brief breathing--space for my shot--torn infantry to come up, I led
on the counter attack. It was brilliantly successful; a hard five minutes with bayonet and
sabre, and his right gun was in our hands and his central one in jeopardy.

"And now Red was seized with that most fatal disease of generals, indecision. He would neither
abandon his lost gun nor adequately attack it. He sent forward a feeble little infantry attack,
that we cut up with the utmost ease, taking several prisoners, made a disastrous demonstration
from the church, and then fell back altogether from the gentle hill on which Hook Farm is situated
to a position beside and behind an exposed cottage on the level. I at once opened out into
a long crescent, with a gun at either horn, whose crossfire completely destroyed his chances
of retreat from this ill-chosen last stand, and there presently we disabled his second gun.
I now turned my attention to his still largely unbroken right, from which a gun had maintained
a galling fire on us throughout the fight. I might still have had some stiff work getting an
attack home to the church, but Red had had enough of it, and now decided to relieve me of any
further exertion by a precipitate retreat. My gun to the right of Hook's Farm killed three
of his flying men, but my cavalry were too badly cut up for an effective pursuit, and he got
away to the extreme left of his original positions with about 6 infantry-men, 4 cavalry, and
1 gun. He went none too soon. Had he stayed, it would have been only a question of time before
we shot him to pieces and finished him altogether."

So far, and a little vaingloriously, the general. Let me now shrug my shoulders and shake him
off, and go over this battle he describes a little more exactly with the help of the photographs.
The battle is a small, compact game of the Fight-to-a-Finish type, and it was arranged as simply
as possible in order to permit of a full and exact explanation.

Figure 1 shows the country of the battlefield put out; on the right is the church, on the left
(near the centre of the plate) is the farm. In the hollow between the two is a small outbuilding.
Directly behind the farm in the line of vision is another outbuilding. This is more distinctly
seen in other photographs. Behind, the chalk back line is clear. Red has won the toss, both
for the choice of a side and, after making that choice, for first move, and his force is already
put out upon the back line. For the sake of picturesqueness, the men are not put exactly on
the line, but each will have his next move measured from that line. Red has broken his force
into two, a fatal error, as we shall see, in view of the wide space of open ground between
the farm and the church. He has 1 gun, 5 cavalry, and 13 infantry on his left, who are evidently
to take up a strong position by the church and enfilade Blue's position; Red's right, of 2
guns, 20 cavalry, and 37 infantry aim at the seizure of the farm.

Figure 2 is a near view of Blue's side, with his force put down. He has grasped the strategic
mistake of Red, and is going to fling every man at the farm. His right, of 5 cavalry and 16
infantry, will get up as soon as possible to the woods near the centre of the field (whence
the fire of their gun will be able to cut off the two portions of Red's force from each other),
and then, leaving the gun there with sufficient men to serve it, the rest of this party will
push on to co-operate with the main force of their comrades in the inevitable scrimmage for
the farm.

