"I have as yet no proof that any will be made," the major remarked, and in fact Graham had
underrated his acquaintance with the game. He was quite equal to his aunt in proficiency, and
with Miss St. John for his partner he was on his mettle. He found her skilful indeed, quick,
penetrating, and possessed of an excellent memory. They held their own so well that the major's
spirits rose hourly. He forgot his wound in the complete absorption of his favorite recreation.

As opportunity occurred Graham could not keep his eyes from wandering here and there about
the apartment that had so taken his fancy, especially toward the large, well-filled bookcase
and the pictures, which, if not very expensive, had evidently been the choice of a cultivated
taste.

They were brought to a consciousness of the flight of time by a clock chiming out the hour
of eleven, and the old soldier with a sigh of regret saw Mrs. Mayburn rise. Miss St. John touched
a silver bell, and a moment later the same negress who had reminded her of her father's impatience
early in the evening entered with a tray bearing a decanter of wine, glasses, and some wafer-like
cakes.

"Have I earned the indulgence of a glance at your books?" Graham asked.

"Yes, indeed," Miss St. John replied; "your martyr-like submission shall be further rewarded
by permission to borrow any of them while in town. I doubt, however, if you will find them
profound enough for your taste."

"I shall take all point from your irony by asking if you think one can relish nothing but intellectual
roast beef. I am enjoying one of your delicate cakes. You must have an excellent cook."

"Papa says he has, in the line of cake and pastry; but then he is partial,"

"What! did you make them?"

"Why not?"

"Oh, I'm not objecting. Did my manners permit, I'd empty the plate. Still, I was under the
impression that young ladies were not adepts in this sort of thing."

"You have been abroad so long that you may have to revise many of your impressions. Of course
retired army officers are naturally in a condition to import chefs de cuisine, but then we
like to keep up the idea of republican simplicity."

"Could you be so very kind as to induce your father to ask me to make one of your evening quartette
as often as possible?"

"The relevancy of that request is striking. Was it suggested by the flavor of the cakes? I
sometimes forget to make them."

"Their absence would not prevent my taste from being gratified if you will permit me to come.
Here is a marked volume of Emerson's works. May I take it for a day or two?"

She blushed slightly, hesitated perceptibly, and then said, "Yes."

"Alford," broke in his aunt, "you students have the name of being great owls, but for an old
woman of my regular habits it's getting late."

"My daughter informs me," the major remarked to Graham in parting, "that we may be able to
induce you to take a hand with us quite often. If you should ever become as old and crippled
as I am you will know how to appreciate such kindness.'"

"Indeed, sir, Miss St. John must testify that I asked to share your game as a privilege. I
can scarcely remember to have passed so pleasant an evening."

"Mrs. Mayburn, do try to keep him in this amiable frame of mind," cried the girl.

"I think I shall need your aid," said that lady, with a smile. "Come, Alford, it is next to
impossible to get you away."

"Papa's unfortunate barometer will prove correct, I fear," said Miss St. John, following them
out on the piazza, for a thin scud was already veiling the stars, and there was an ominous
moan of the wind.

"To-morrow will be a stormy day," remarked Mrs. Mayburn, who prided herself on her weather wisdom.

"I'm sorry," Miss St. John continued, "for it will spoil our fairy world of blossoms, and I
am still more sorry for papa's sake."

"Should the day prove a long, dismal, rainy one," Graham ventured, "may I not come over and
help entertain your father?"

"Yes," said the girl, earnestly. "It cannot seem strange to you that time should often hang
heavily on his hands, and I am grateful to any one who helps me to enliven his hours."

Before Graham repassed under the apple-tree boughs he had fully decided to win at least Miss
St. John's gratitude.

CHAPTER III

THE VERDICT OF A SAGE

When Graham reached his room he was in no mood for sleep. At first he lapsed into a long revery
over the events of the evening, trivial in themselves, and yet for some reason holding a controlling
influence over his thoughts. Miss St. John was a new revelation of womanhood to him, and for
the first time in his life his heart had been stirred by a woman's tones and glances. A deep
chord in his nature vibrated when she spoke and smiled. What did it mean? He had followed his
impulse to permit this stranger to make any impression within her power, and he found that
she had decidedly interested him. As he tried to analyze her power he concluded that it lay
chiefly in the mirthfulness, the joyousness of her spirit. She quickened his cool, deliberate
pulse. Her smile was not an affair of facial muscles, but had a vivifying warmth. It made him
suspect that his life was becoming cold and self- centred, that he was missing the deepest
and best experiences of an existence that was brief indeed at best, and, as he believed, soon
ceased forever. The love of study and ambition had sufficed thus far, but actuated by his own
materialistic creed he was bound to make the most of life while it lasted. According to Emerson
he was as yet but in the earlier stages of evolution, and his highest manhood wholly undeveloped.
Had not "music, poetry, and art" dawned in his mind? Was nature but a mechanism after whose
laws he had been groping like an anatomist who finds in the godlike form bone and tissue merely?
As he had sat watching the sunset a few hours previous, the element of beauty had been present
to him as never before. Could this sense of beauty become so enlarged that the world would
be transfigured, "radiant with purple light"? Morning had often brought to him weariness from
sleepless hours during which he had racked his brain over problems too deep for him, and evening
had found him still baffled, disappointed, and disposed to ask in view of his toil, Cui bono?
What ground had Emerson for saying that these same mornings and evenings might be filled with
"varied enchantments"? The reason, the cause of these unknown conditions of life, was given
unmistakably. The Concord sage had virtually asserted that he, Alford Graham, would never truly
exist until his one-sided masculine nature had been supplemented by the feminine soul which
alone could give to his being completeness and the power to attain his full development.

"Well," he soliloquized, laughing, "I have not been aware that hitherto I have been only a
mollusk, a polyp of a man. I am inclined to think that Emerson's 'Pegasus' took the bit--got
the better of him on one occasion; but if there is any truth in what he writes it might not
be a bad idea to try a little of the kind of evolution that he suggests and see what comes
of it. I am already confident that I could see infinitely more than I do if I could look at
the world through Miss St. John's eyes as well as my own, but I run no slight risk in obtaining
that vision. Her eyes are stars that must have drawn worshippers, not only from the east, but
from every point of the compass. I should be in a sorry plight if I should become 'all memory,'
and from my fair divinity receive as sole response, 'Please forget.' If the philosopher could
guarantee that she also would be 'all eye and all memory,' one might indeed covet Miss St.
John as the teacher of the higher mysteries. Life is not very exhilarating at best, but for
a man to set his heart on such a woman as this girl promises to be, and then be denied--why,
he had better remain a polyp. Come, come, Alford Graham, you have had your hour of sentiment--out
of deference to Mr. Emerson I won't call it weakness--and it's time you remembered that you
are a comparatively poor man, that Miss St. John has already been the choice of a score at
least, and probably has made her own choice. I shall therefore permit no delusions and the
growth of no false hopes."

Having reached this prudent conclusion, Graham yawned, smiled at the unwonted mood in which
he had indulged, and with the philosophic purpose of finding an opiate in the pages that had
contained one paragraph rather too exciting, he took up the copy of Emerson that he had borrowed.
The book fell open, indicating that some one had often turned to the pages before him. One
passage was strongly marked on either side and underscored. With a laugh he saw that it was
the one he had been dwelling upon--"No man ever forgot," etc.

"Now I know why she blushed slightly and hesitated to lend me this volume," he thought. "I
suppose I may read in this instance, 'No woman ever forgot.' Of course, it would be strange
if she had not learned to understand these words. What else has she marked?"

Here and there were many delicate marginal lines indicating approval and interest, but they
were so delicate as to suggest that the strong scoring of the significant passage was not the
work of Miss St. John, but rather of some heavy masculine hand. This seemed to restore the
original reading, "No man ever forgot," and some man had apparently tried to inform her by
his emphatic lines that he did not intend to forget.

"Well, suppose he does not and cannot," Graham mused. "That fact places her under no obligations
to be 'all eye and memory' for him. And yet her blush and hesitancy and the way the book falls
open at this passage look favorable for him. I can win her gratitude by amusing the old major,
and with that, no doubt, I shall have to be content."

This limitation of his chances caused Graham so little solicitude that he was soon sleeping
soundly.

CHAPTER IV

WARNING OR INCENTIVE?

The next morning proved that the wound which Major St. John had received in the Mexican War
was a correct barometer. From a leaden, lowering sky the rain fell steadily, and a chilly wind
was fast dismantling the trees of their blossoms. The birds had suspended their nest-building,
and but few had the heart to sing.

"You seem to take a very complacent view of the dreary prospect without," Mrs. Mayburn remarked,
as Graham came smilingly into the breakfast-room and greeted her with a cheerful note in his
tones. "Such a day as this means rheumatism for me and an aching leg for Major St. John."

"I am very sorry, aunt," he replied, "but I cannot help remembering also that it is not altogether
an ill wind, for it will blow me over into a cosey parlor and very charming society--that is,
if Miss St. John will give me a little aid in entertaining her father."

"So we old people don't count for anything."

"That doesn't follow at all. I would do anything in my power to banish your rheumatism and
the major's twinges, but how was it with you both at my age? I can answer for the major. If
at that time he knew another major with such a daughter as blesses his home, his devotion to
the preceding veteran was a little mixed."

"Are you so taken by Miss St. John?"

"I have not the slightest hope of being taken by her."

"You know what I mean?"

"Yes, but I wished to suggest my modest hopes and expectations so that you may have no anxieties
if I avail myself, during my visit, of the chance of seeing what I can of an unusually fine
girl. Acquaintance with such society is the part of my education most sadly neglected. Nevertheless,
you will find me devotedly at your service whenever you will express your wishes."

"Do not imagine that I am disposed to find fault. Grace is a great favorite of mine. She is
a good old-fashioned girl, not one of your vain, heartless, selfish creatures with only a veneer
of good breeding. I see her almost every day, either here or in her own home, and I know her
well. You have seen that she is fitted to shine anywhere, but it is for her home qualities
that I love and admire her most. Her father is crippled and querulous; indeed he is often exceedingly
irritable. Everything must please him or else he is inclined to storm as he did in his regiment,
and occasionally he emphasizes his words without much regard to the third commandment. But
his gusts of anger are over quickly, and a kinder-hearted and more upright man never lived.
Of course American servants won't stand harsh words. They want to do all the fault-finding,
and the poor old gentleman would have a hard time of it were it not for Grace. She knows how
to manage both him and them, and that colored woman you saw wouldn't leave him if he beat and
swore at her every day. She was a slave in the family of Grace's mother, who was a Southern
lady, and the major gave the poor creature her liberty when he brought his wife to the North.
Grace is sunshine embodied. She makes her old, irritable, and sometimes gouty father happy
in spite of himself. It was just like her to accept of your offer last evening, for to banish
all dullness from her father's life seems her constant thought. So if you wish to grow in the
young lady's favor don't be so attentive to her as to neglect the old gentleman."

Graham listened to this good-natured gossip with decided interest, feeling that it contained
valuable suggestions. The response seemed scarcely relevant. "When is she to be married?" he asked.

"Married!"

"Yes. It is a wonder that such a paragon has escaped thus long."

"You have lived abroad too much," said his aunt satirically. "American girls are not married
out of hand at a certain age. They marry when they please or not at all if they please. Grace
easily escapes marriage."

"Not from want of suitors, I'm sure."

"You are right there."

"How then?"

"By saying, 'No, I thank you.' You can easily learn how very effectual such a quiet negative
is, if you choose."

"Indeed! Am I such a very undesirable party?" said Graham, laughing, for he heartily enjoyed
his aunt's brusque way of talking, having learned already the kindliness it masked.

"Not in my eyes. I can't speak for Grace. She'd marry you if she loved you, and were you the
Czar of all the Russias you wouldn't have the ghost of a chance unless she did. I know that
she has refused more than one fortune. She seems perfectly content to live with her father,
until the one prince having the power to awaken her appears. When he comes rest assured she'll
follow him, and also be assured that she'll take her father with her, and to a selfish, exacting
Turk of a husband he might prove an old man of the sea. And yet I doubt it. Grace would manage
any one. Not that she has much management either. She simply laughs, smiles, and talks every
one into good humor. Her mirthfulness, her own happiness, is so genuine that it is contagious.
Suppose you exchange duties and ask her to come over and enliven me while you entertain her
father," concluded the old lady mischievously.

"I would not dare to face such a fiery veteran as you have described alone."

"I knew you would have some excuse. Well, be on your guard. Grace will make no effort to capture
you, and therefore you will be in all the more danger of being captured. If you lose your heart
in vain to her you will need more than German philosophy to sustain you."

"I have already made to myself in substance your last remark."

"I know you are not a lady's man, and perhaps for that very reason you are all the more liable
to an acute attack."

Graham laughed as he rose from the table, and asked, "Should I ever venture to lay siege to
Miss St. John, would I not have your blessing?"

"Yes, and more than my blessing."

"What do you mean by more than your blessing?"

"I shall not commit myself until you commit yourself, and I do not wish you to take even the
first step without appreciating the risk of the venture."

"Why, bless you, aunt," said Graham, now laughing heartily, "how seriously you take it! I have
spent but one evening with the girl."

The old lady nodded her head significantly as she replied, "I have not lived to my time of
life without learning a thing or two. My memory also has not failed as yet. There were young
men who looked at me once just as you looked at Grace last evening, and I know what came of
it in more than one instance. You are safe now, and you may be invulnerable, although it does
not look like it; but if you can see much of Grace St. John and remain untouched you are unlike
most men."

"I have always had the name of being that, you know. But as the peril is so great had I not
better fly at once?"

"Yes, I think we both have had the name of being a little peculiar, and my brusque, direct
way of coming right to the point is one of my peculiarities. I am very intimate with the St.
Johns, and am almost as fond of Grace as if she were my own child. So of course you can see
a great deal of her if you wish, and this arrangement about whist will add to your opportunities.
I know what young men are, and I know too what often happens when their faces express as much
admiration and interest as yours did last night. What's more," continued the energetic old
lady with an emphatic tap on the floor with her foot, and a decided nod of her head, "if I
were a young man, Grace would have to marry some one else to get rid of me. Now I've had my
say, and my conscience is clear, whatever happens. As to flight, why, you must settle that
question, but I am sincere and cordial in my request that you make your home with me until
you decide upon your future course."

Graham was touched, and he took his aunt's hand as he said, "I thank you for your kindness,
and more than all for your downright sincerity. When I came here it was to make but a formal
call. With the exception of one friend, I believed that I stood utterly alone in the world--
that no one cared about what I did or what became of me. I was accustomed to isolation and
thought I was content with it, but I find it more pleasant than I can make you understand to
know there is one place in the world to which I can come, not as a stranger to an inn, but
as one that is received for other than business considerations. Since you have been so frank
with me I will be equally outspoken;" and he told her just how he was situated, and what were
his plans and hopes. "Now that I know there is no necessity of earning my livelihood," he concluded,
"I shall yield to my impulse to rest awhile, and then quite probably resume my studies here
or abroad until I can obtain a position suited to my plans and taste. I thank you for your
note of alarm in regard to Miss St. John, although I must say that to my mind there is more
of incentive than of warning in your words. I think I can at least venture on a few reconnoissances,
as the major might say, before I beat a retreat. Is it too early to make one now?"

Mrs. Mayburn smiled. "No," she said, laconically,

"I see that you think my reconnoissance will lead to a siege," Graham added. "Well, I can at
least promise that there shall be no rash movements."

CHAPTER V

IMPRESSIONS

Graham, smiling at his aunt and still more amused at himself, started to pay his morning visit.
"Yesterday afternoon," he thought, "I expected to make but a brief call on an aunt who was
almost a stranger to me, and now I am domiciled under her roof indefinitely. She has introduced
me to a charming girl, and in an ostensible warning shrewdly inserted the strongest incentives
to venture everything, hinting at the same time that if I succeeded she would give me more
than her blessing. What a vista of possibilities has opened since I crossed her threshold!
A brief time since I was buried in German libraries, unaware of the existence of Miss St. John,
and forgetting that of my aunt. Apparently I have crossed the ocean to meet them both, for
had I remained abroad a few days longer, letters on the way would have prevented my returning.
Of course it is all chance, but a curious chance. I don't wonder that people are often superstitious;
and yet a moment's reasoning proves the absurdity of this sort of thing. Nothing truly strange
often happens, and only our egotism invests events of personal interest with a trace of the
marvellous. My business man neglected to advise me of my improved finances as soon as he might
have done. My aunt receives me, not as I expected, but as one would naturally hope to be met
by a relative. She has a fair young neighbor with whom she is intimate, and whom I meet as
a matter of course, and as a matter of course I can continue to meet her as long as I choose
without becoming 'all eye and all memory.' Surely a man can enjoy the society of any woman
without the danger my aunt suggests and--as I half believe--would like to bring about. What
signify my fancies of last evening? We often enjoy imagining what might be without ever intending
it shall be. At any rate, I shall not sigh for Miss St. John or any other woman until satisfied
that I should not sigh in vain. The probabilities are therefore that I shall never sigh at all."

As he approached Major St. John's dwelling he saw the object of his thoughts standing by the
window and reading a letter. A syringa shrub partially concealed him and his umbrella, and
he could not forbear pausing a moment to note what a pretty picture she made. A sprig of white
flowers was in her light wavy hair, and another fastened by her breastpin drooped over her
bosom. Her morning wrapper was of the hue of the sky that lay back of the leaden clouds. A
heightened color mantled her cheeks, her lips were parted with a smile, and her whole face
was full of delighted interest.

"By Jove!" muttered Graham. "Aunt Mayburn is half right, I believe. A man must have the pulse
of an anchorite to look often at such a vision as that and remain untouched. One might easily
create a divinity out of such a creature, and then find it difficult not to worship. I could
go away now and make her my ideal, endowing her with all impossible attributes of perfection.
Very probably fuller acquaintance will prove that she is made of clay not differing materially
from that of other womankind. I envy her correspondent, however, and would be glad if I could
write a letter that would bring such an expression to her face. Well, I am reconnoitring true
enough, and had better not be detected in the act;" and he stepped rapidly forward.

She recognized him with a piquant little nod and smile. The letter was folded instantly, and
a moment later she opened the door for him herself, saying, "Since I have seen you and you
have come on so kind an errand I have dispensed with the formality of sending a servant to
admit you."

"Won't you shake hands as a further reward?" he asked. "You will find me very mercenary."

"Oh, certainly. Pardon the oversight. I should have done so without prompting since it is so
long since we have met."

"And having known each other so long also," he added in the same light vein, conscious meantime
that he held a hand that was as full of vitality as it was shapely and white.

"Indeed," she replied; "did last evening seem an age to you?"

"I tried to prolong it, for you must remember that my aunt said that she could not get me away;
and this morning I was indiscreet enough to welcome the rain, at which she reminded me of her
rheumatism and your father's wound."

"And at which I also hope you had a twinge or two of conscience. Papa," she added, leading
the way into the parlor, "here is Mr. Graham. It was his fascinating talk about life in Germany
that so delayed me last evening."

The old gentleman started out of a doze, and his manner proved that he welcomed any break in
the monotony of the day. "You will pardon my not rising," he said; "this confounded weather
is playing the deuce with my leg."

Graham was observant as he joined in a general condemnation of the weather; and the manner
in which Miss St. John rearranged the cushion on which her father's foot rested, coaxed the
fire into a more cheerful blaze, and bestowed other little attentions, proved beyond a doubt
that all effort in behalf of the suffering veteran would be appreciated. Nor was he so devoid
of a kindly good-nature himself as to anticipate an irksome task, and he did his utmost to
discover the best methods of entertaining his host. The effort soon became remunerative, for
the major had seen much of life, and enjoyed reference to his experiences. Graham found that
he could be induced to fight his battles over again, but always with very modest allusion to
himself. In the course of their talk it also became evident that he was a man of somewhat extensive
reading, and the daily paper must have been almost literally devoured to account for his acquaintance
with contemporary affairs. The daughter was often not a little amused at Graham's blank looks
as her father broached topics of American interest which to the student from abroad were as
little known or understood as the questions which might have been agitating the inhabitants
of Jupiter. Most ladies would have been politely oblivious of her guest's blunders and infelicitous
remarks, but Miss St. John had a frank, merry way of recognizing them, and yet malice and ridicule
were so entirely absent from her words and ways that Graham soon positively enjoyed being laughed
at, and much preferred her delicate open raillery, which gave him a chance to defend himself,
to a smiling mask that would leave him in uncertainty as to the fitness of his replies. There
was a subtle flattery also in this course, for she treated him as one capable of holding his
own, and not in need of social charity and protection. With pleasure he recognized that she
was adopting toward him something of the same sportive manner which characterized her relations
with his aunt, and which also indicated that as Mrs. Mayburn's nephew he had met with a reception
which would not have been accorded to one less favorably introduced.

How vividly in after years Graham remembered that rainy May morning! He could always call up
before him, like a vivid picture, the old major with his bushy white eyebrows and piercing
black eyes, the smoke from his meerschaum creating a sort of halo around his gray head, the
fine, venerable face often drawn by pain which led to half-muttered imprecations that courtesy
to his guest and daughter could not wholly suppress. How often he saw again the fire curling
softly from the hearth with a contented crackle, as if pleased to be once more an essential
to the home from which the advancing summer would soon banish it! He could recall every article
of the furniture with which he afterward became so familiar. But that which was engraven on
his memory forever was a fair young girl sitting by the window with a background of early spring
greenery swaying to and fro in the storm. Long afterward, when watching on the perilous picket
line or standing in his place on the battlefield, he would close his eyes that he might recall
more vividly the little white hands deftly crocheting on some feminine mystery, and the mirthful
eyes that often glanced from it to him as the quiet flow of their talk rippled on. A rill,
had it conscious life, would never forget the pebble that deflected its course from one ocean
to another; human life as it flows onward cannot fail to recognize events, trivial in themselves,
which nevertheless gave direction to all the future.

Graham admitted to himself that he had found a charm at this fireside which he had never enjoyed
elsewhere in society--the pleasure of being perfectly at ease. There was a genial frankness
and simplicity in his entertainers which banished restraint, and gave him a sense of security.
He felt instinctively that there were no adverse currents of mental criticism and detraction,
that they were loyal to him as their invited guest, notwithstanding jest, banter, and good-natured
satire.

The hours had vanished so swiftly that he was at a loss to account for them. Miss St. John
was a natural foe to dulness of all kinds, and this too without any apparent effort. Indeed,
we are rarely entertained by evident and deliberate exertion. Pleasurable exhilaration in society
is obtained from those who impart, like warmth, their own spontaneous vivacity. Miss St. John's
smile was an antidote for a rainy day, and he was loath to pass from its genial power out under
the dripping clouds. Following an impulse, he said to the girl, "You are more than a match
for the weather."

These words were spoken in the hall after he had bidden adieu to the major.

"If you meant a compliment it is a very doubtful one," she replied, laughing. "Do you mean
that I am worse than the weather which gives papa the horrors, and Mrs. Mayburn the rheumatism?"

"And me one of the most delightful mornings I ever enjoyed," he added, interrupting her. "You
were in league with your wood fire. The garish sunshine of a warm day robs a house of all cosiness
and snugness. Instead of being depressed by the storm and permitting others to be dull, you
have the art of making the clouds your foil."

"Possibly I may appear to some advantage against such a dismal background," she admitted.

"My meaning is interpreted by my unconscionably long visit. I now must reluctantly retreat
into the dismal background."

"A rather well-covered retreat, as papa might say, but you will need your umbrella all the
same;" for he, in looking back at the archly smiling girl, had neglected to open it.

"I am glad it is not a final retreat," he called back. "I shall return this evening reinforced
by my aunt."

"Well," exclaimed that lady when he appeared before her, "lunch has been waiting ten minutes
or more."

"I feared as much," he replied, shaking his head ruefully.

"What kept you?"

"Miss St. John."

"Not the major? I thought you went to entertain him?"

"So I did, but man proposes--"

"Oh, not yet, I hope," cried the old lady with assumed dismay. "I thought you promised to do
nothing rash."

"You are more precipitate than I have been. All that I propose is to enjoy my vacation and
the society of your charming friend."

"The major?" she suggested.

"A natural error on your part, for I perceived he was very gallant to you. After your remarks,
however, you cannot think it strange that I found the daughter more interesting--so interesting
indeed that I have kept you waiting for lunch. I'll not repeat the offence any oftener than
I can help. At the same time I find that I have not lost my appetite, or anything else that
I am aware of."

"How did Grace appear?" his aunt asked as they sat down to lunch.

"Like myself."

"Then not like any one else you know?"

"We agree here perfectly."

"You have no fear?"

