Again, there is a young lay-reader, closely in contact with Christ; he has a wife and young
child. The weather is bitterly cold. A picture suddenly comes before me of this family, and
there is a voice saying, "He was gathering together the last little pieces of fuel when your
present came." Immediately I understand that I am required to send coal to these people, and
to do it at once without delay. The following day the wife comes with tears to thank me, and
she tells me, "We were in despair; my husband's heart is so weak he cannot bear the cold, he
becomes seriously ill. He was gathering together the last little pieces of fuel when your present
came."

Or, again, I very badly need a pair of walking shoes, but for weeks I have been so absorbed
in contemplation that the pain of bringing myself from this holy joy to do shopping is too
great, and I delay and delay; I cannot bring myself to it; but shoes are a necessity of earthly
life. Having exceedingly narrow feet, I am obliged always to get my shoes from a certain maker,
and now, during the war, he makes so few shoes. To-day a picture of the shop comes before me,
and the words "Go to-day, go to-day," urge themselves upon my consciousness. Then a picture
comes of the assistant; I show her my foot, and she says, "There is only one pair left; how
fortunate you came to-day!" So I understand I must go to my shopping and, greatly against my
will, I go that afternoon. The assistant comes forward, and I show her my foot, and she says,
"There is only one pair left; how fortunate you came to-day!"

Always in this mode of the guiding are the little picture and the exact words: all of it of
the easiest to describe; but of the other and the greater guiding I do not know how to tell.
It is sheer pure knowledge, received not in parts, pictures, or words, but as a whole and in
a mode so exquisitely mysterious as to be at once too intricate for description, and yet simplicity
itself!

Sure, perfect, and serene mode of knowledge! Royal knowledge which knows no toil, no sweat
of work, no common drudgery, art thou of the soul herself, or art thou altogether from outside
the soul? This I know, that though the first mode would seem to be very small and to deal with
littleness, and the last mode seems to be entirely apart from it because of the greatnesses
with which it deals that they are linked and that the power is one power soaring to the highest,
condescending to the smallest.

So now, in the time of this strange abstraction and poverty, when the cinematograph of my mind
is closed down, and with it the delicate mechanism which takes up, uses, and connects all that
we take in by the senses, and which makes the world so real and so comprehensible, is become
unhitched and disconnected, so that nothing in the world seems any longer real or possesses
either value or meaning, and I stand before it all defenceless, seemingly unable to deal with
it, utterly indifferent to it; then and now Reason may very well say to me, "You are in very
great danger"; but I am not in any danger, because I am guided whenever necessary by some condescending
sagacity far more sagacious than my poor Reason, infinitely more penetrative and effectual
than any sense of eye or ear. I remain fully convinced that at this time, at any rate, it was
an outside sagacity which guided me--truly a guardian angel.

This period of intense abstraction, this strange valley of humiliation, poverty, solitude,
seemed a necessary prelude to the great, the supreme, experience of my life. As I came slowly
out of this poverty and solitude, the joyousness of my spiritual experience increased: the
nights were no longer at all a time of sleep or repose, but of rapturous living.

The sixth week came, and I commenced to fear the nights and this tremendous living, because
the happiness and the light and the poignancy and the rapture of it were becoming more than
I could bear. I began to wonder secretly if God intended to draw my soul so near to Him that
I should die of the splendour of this living, My raptures were not only caused by the sense
of the immediate Presence of God--this is a distinctive rapture running through and above all
raptures, but there are lesser ecstasies caused by the meeting of the soul with Thoughts or
Ideas, with melodies which bear the soul in almost unendurable delight upon a thousand summits
of perfection; and with an all-pervading rapturous Beauty in a great light. There is this peculiarity
about the manner of these thoughts and melodies and beauties--they are not spoken, heard, or
seen, but lived. I could not pass these things to my reason and translate the Ideas into words
or the melodies into sounds, or the beauty into objects, for spirit-living is not translatable
to earth-living, and I found in it no words, no sounds, no objects, and I comprehended and
I lived with that in me which is above Reason and of which I had, previously to these experiences,
had no cognisance.

There came a night when I passed beyond Ideas, beyond melody, beyond beauty, into vast lost
spaces, depths of untellable bliss, into a Light. And the Light is an ecstasy of delight, and
the Light is an ocean of bliss, and the Light is Life and Love, and the Light is the too deep
contact with God, and the Light is unbearable Joy; and in unendurable bliss my soul beseeches
God that He will cover her from this most terrible rapture, this felicity which exceeds all
measure. And she is not covered from it. And she beseeches Him again; and she is not covered;
and being in the last extremity from this most terrible joy, she beseeches Him again: and immediately
is covered from it.

* * *

My soul, my whole being, is terrified of God, and of joy. I dare not think of Him, I dare not
pray; but, like some pitiful and wounded child, I creep to the feet of Jesus.

When on the following evening once more the day closes and I compose myself for the night,
I wonder tremblingly to what He will again expose me; but for the first time in six weeks I
fall into a natural sleep and know no more until the morning.

Then I understand that the lesson is over. Mighty and Terrible God, it was enough!

In the light of these measureless joys what is any earthly joy? What is the very greatest experience
of earthly happiness but so much waste paper?

What are the joys of those vices for which men sell their souls, but soap-bubbles!

The whole meaning of life, together with all the graduated and accepted values of it, becomes
for ever changed in the light of the knowledge of Celestial Happiness.

PART III

I

Wonderful, beautiful weeks went by, filled with divine, indescribable peace. The Presence of
God was with me day and night, and the world was not the world as I had once known it--a place
where men and women fought and sinned and toiled and anguished and wondered horribly the meaning
of this mystery of pain and joy, of life and death. The world was become Paradise, and in my
heart I cried to all my fellow-souls, "Why fret and toil, why sweat and anguish for the things
of earth when our own God has in His hand such peace and bliss and happiness to give to Every
man? O come and receive it, Every man his share."

And the glamour of life in Unity with God became past all comprehension and all words.

Is life, then, a poem? is it a melody? I cannot say; but it is one long essence of delight--a
harmony of flowing out and back again to God. O blessed life! O blessed Man! O blessed God!

II

One morning in my room I began thinking and reasoning about a wonderful change that I knew
had crept all through me. If God should now come at any moment of the day or night and turn
over every secret page of heart and mind, He would not find one thought or glimmer of any sort
or kind of lust, whether of the eye, of the heart, of the mind, or of the body; and all in
one moment I realised the miracle that Christ had worked in me, and the words came over my
mind, "Though thy sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow." And I stood there, gazing
before me, speechless, and the tears of a joy that was an agony of gratitude poured and poured
down my face like a rain. I did not sob, I could not speak, and very quietly I took my heart
and my mind and my soul and laid them for ever at the feet of Christ.

III

One evening as I knelt to say my prayers, which were never long, because since the Visitation
on the hill my natural habit--whether walking, sitting, working, travelling, or on my bed--had
come to be a continual sending up from my heart and mind the tenderest and most adoring, the
most worshipping and thanking little stream of thoughts to God (very much as a flower, if we
could but see it, sends its scent to the sun).

And because this mode of prayer is so smooth and joyous, so easy, so unutterably sweet, in
that during it the Presence of God laves us about as the sun laves the flower--so because of
this it was only for short and set times that I worshipped Him as the creature in prayers upon
its knees; but those few moments of prayer would always be intense, the heart and the mind
with great power bent wholly and singly upon God.

So now, this evening as I knelt and dwelt in great singleness on God, He drew me so powerfully,
He encompassed me so with His glamour, that this singleness and concentration of thought continued
much longer than usual on account of the greatness of the love that I felt for Him, and the
concentration became an intensity of penetration because of this magnetism, He turned on to
me, and my mind became faint, and died, and I could no longer think of or on God, for I was
one with Him. And I was still I; though I was become Ineffable Joy.

When it was over I rose from my knees, and I said to myself, for five wonderful moments I have
been in contact with God in an unutterable bliss and repose: and He gave me the bliss tenderly
and not as on that Night of Terror; but when I looked at my watch I saw that it had been for
between two and three hours.

Then I wondered that I was not stiff, that I was not cold, for the night was chilly and I had
nothing about me but a little velvet dressing-wrapper; and my neck was not stiff, though my
head had been thrown back, as is a necessity in Communion with God; and I thought to myself,
it is as if my body also had shared in the blessing.

And this most blessed happening happened to me every day for a short while, usually only for
a few moments. In this way God Himself caused and enabled me to contemplate and know Him; and
I saw that it was in some ways at one with my beautiful pastime, but with this tremendous difference
in it--that whereas my mind had formerly concentrated itself upon the Beautiful, and remaining
Mind had soared away above all forms into its nebulous essence in a strange seductive anguish,
it now was drawn and magnetised beyond the Beautiful directly to the Maker of it: and the soaring
was like a death or swooning of the mind, and immediately I was living with that which is above
the mind: in this living there was no note of pain, but a marvellous joy.

Slowly I learnt to differentiate degrees of Contemplation, but to my own finding there are
two principal forms--Passive and Active (or High) Contemplation.

In meditation is little or no activity, but a sweet quiet thinking and talking with Jesus Christ.
In Passive Contemplation is the beginning of real activity; mind and soul without effort (though
in a secret state of great love-activity) raise themselves, focussing themselves upon the all-unseen
Godhead: now is no longer any possible picture in the mind, of anyone nor anything, not even
of the gracious figure or of the ways of Christ: here, because of love, must begin the sheer
straight drive of will and heart, mind and soul, to the Godhead, and here we may be said first
to commence to breathe the air of heaven.

There is no prayer, no beseeching, and no asking--there are no words and no thoughts save those
that intrude and flash unwanted over the mind, but a great undivided attention and waiting
upon God: God near, yet never touching. This state is no ecstasy, but smooth, silent, high
living in which we learn heavenly manners. This is Passive or Quiet Contemplation.

High Contemplation ends in Contact with God, in ecstasy and rapture. In it the activity of
the soul (though entirely without effort on her part) is immensely increased. It is not to
be sought for, and we cannot reach it for ourselves; but it is to be enjoyed when God calls,
when He assists the soul, when He energises her.

And then our cry is no more, Oh, that I had wings! but, Oh, that I might fold my wings and stay!

IV

Having come so far as this on the Soul's Great Adventure all alone as far as human guidance
and companionship was concerned, and having for more than a year known the wonders of the joy
of Union with God--which I did not know or understand to call Union, but called it to myself
Finding God and coming into Contact with Him, because this is how it feels, and the unscholarly
creature understands and knows it in that way--well, having come so far, I had a great longing
to share this knowledge, this exquisite balm, with my fellows, and I desired immensely to speak
about it, to know how they fell about it, if they had yet come to it, or how far on the way
they were to it, because I was all filled with the beauty of it, as lovers are filled with
the beauty of their love. But I was frightened to speak to them, something held me back: also
they felt to me to be so exceedingly full of the merest trifles--clothes and tea-parties and
fashionable friends; and each time I tried to speak, in some mysterious way I found myself
stopped. So I thought that I would speak to a friend that I had in the Church. Several times
I had heard him preach very beautiful sermons, and I felt I very greatly needed the guidance
of someone who knew. I wanted, I longed for, a human intermediary. I knew that I was in the
hands of the God Whom for so many years I had so passionately sought; but He was so immeasurably
great, and I so pitifully small, and I needed a human being--someone to whom I might speak
about God.

Yet something warned me not to commence as though speaking of myself, but of another person.
I said only a few words, of the joy of this person in finding and loving God, and immediately
my friend spoke very severely of persons who imagined they had found, and loved, God. God was
not to be found by our puny, shifting and uncertain love: He was to be found by duty, by obedience
to Church rules, by pious attendance At Church. He explained to me various dogmas which helped
me no more than the moaning of the wind; he explained the absolute necessity (for salvation)
of certain beliefs and written sentences, and ceremonials in the Church. Love was not the way.
Love was emotion, emotion was deceptive: the mind, and severe firm attention to the dictates
of The Church was what was required; in fact, he unfolded before me the Ecclesiastical Mind.
I shrank back from it, dismayed, frightened. Were all the deep needs and requirements of the
soul to be satisfied in the singing of hymns and Te Deum, in the close and reverent attention
to the Ceremonies before the altar, and of the actions of Priests! Did, or could, any reasoning
creature truly think to Find God by merely repeating, however reverently, the same prayers
and ceremonies Sunday after Sunday! Could the great mountain up which my soul had sweated,
and which each soul must climb--could it be climbed by kneeling in a pew in church? No; a total
change of character was needed, and Christ Himself was necessary for this change--Jesus Christ
gliding into the heart and mind and soul, and biding there because of that heart's, that mind's,
invitation to, and love for, Him. Secretly--in one's own chamber, every hour of the day, in
the streets, in the fields--in this way it might be accomplished.

With Christ biding in the heart all the Church service would become a thing of beauty as between
the Soul and God; but without this Jesus Christ dwelling in the heart, the connection was not
yet made between the Soul--the service--and the Godhead.

Perhaps amongst Romans I should find the understanding that I looked for. I had a friend, a
Dominican: I approached him, and I could see that for (as he thought) my own good he longed
to convert me to the Roman Church: it did not seem that he wanted, or by any means knew how,
to bring me into contact with God, but his thought was to bring me to The Church. "Does anyone,"
I asked him, "love God with all their heart, and mind, and soul, and strength?" "No," said
he, "that is hardly possible--what is required is--"; and here he gave me once more the contents
of the Ecclesiastical Mind: more authoritatively, more positively; but he spoke as I now commenced
to realise all Churchmen would speak--that is to say, as persons having learnt by study, by
careful rule and rote, by paper-knowledge, that which can only be learnt in the spirit direct
from God. How immense is the difference to the Soul between this knowledge that comes of the
spirit and the knowledge that comes of study--the knowledge which too easily becomes mechanical
religion!

I thought of the beautiful and gracious simplicity of the knowledge that Christ gives to the
soul: I saw the nature of the sore disease that afflicts the soul of Christ's Church, I saw
also a terrible pain for Christ in all this of which I had previously been unaware.

I was thrown back and into myself by it all, and into a great loneliness as far as my fellow-beings
were concerned. Yet I continued to need to share Christ with humanity, piercingly, pressingly.
I would go to a library and find a book--but, on the other hand, I did not know the name of
a single religious book or writer. So I wrote my need to a friend, and she sent me the life
of one, Angela of Foligno. This book was a great delight to me, because, though written in
tiresome mediaeval language, it yet expressed and shared exactly what I also knew and loved,
and folded in strange wrappings of the fashion of the thought of long ago lay the same exquisite
jewel that I also knew--the pearl for which men gladly sell all that they have in order to
keep it--the knowledge of the Secret of the Kingdom of Heaven, of the Union of the Soul with God.

A few months went by, and I wrote asking for another book, and this time came Richard Rolle
to my acquaintance--a little dried-up hermit, a holy man too, though I noticed how very discourteous
he was to women; severe, critical, and suspicious, merely because they were women. How often
I noticed this peculiarity, both in the monks of to-day with their averted eyes, as if the
shadow of a woman falling on them were pollution, and long ago, Paul, and Peter also, and Moses,
and many others, showed surprising weakness of intolerance and harsh judgment against Woman!

Where was Wisdom in all this? Surely it was Folly flaunting and laughing and dressing herself
cunningly to deceive, for did none of these men, from Adam downwards--did they never come to
know themselves well enough to see that their danger lay not in the Woman, but in their own
inclination to sin!

Oh, the righteousness of the greatest saint was, and is, but as dust and ashes before the righteousness
of Jesus! and I came to wonder if there ever was or could be a saint, save one--Jesus.

But this Richard Rolle, this person so discourteous to some fellow-beings, could all the same
be very tender and loving towards God: he, too, held in his heart the Pearl without Price.
He, too, knew that marvellous incense of the heart to God--that song of the soul, and called
it by the same name as I; but how could it be called by any other name? for every soul that
knows it, it must ever be the same. Oh, how intimately I knew those two people of centuries
ago, and how intimately they knew me! A strange trio we made--he, the little wizened English
hermit; she, the Italian woman in her nun's habit; and I in my modern Bond Street clothes:
outwardly we were indeed incongruous, we had no links, but inwardly we were bound together
by bonds of the purest gold.

Of whether my friend sent me another book or not I cannot be sure; but my interest was becoming
altogether removed from the past, because Christ was pressing me more and more to the present
and the living.

V

God says to the aspiring soul: Come, taste of paradise and taste of heaven, and then return
thou to the earth and wait, but not in idleness, and suffer many things till thou become perfect.

So I found that in the earlier stages, in order to show me the heights to which I might by
perseverance attain, He turned His Power and Glamour on to me, and I became a creature transfixed
and held by love. I had one desire--God; I had one thought--God; I had one consciousness--God.
There was no effort needed on my part: it was Pure Grace and the result of past efforts. Having
climbed and endured and endeavoured up to a certain degree, it was necessary for further advance
that there should be more knowledge, and a more complete ineffaceable assurance. He therefore
exposed the soul to as much as she could enjoy of heavenly pleasures and consciousness, without
death to the flesh. In these experiences the soul found and knew God to be the fulfilment of
all desires and all needs. The soul stood steadied before God in an unutterable Happiness which
she perceived had no limit but God's Will, and her own capacity to endure the rapture of Him.

What is it that would seem to determine this immeasurable privilege of Access to Him? It would
seem to be a healthy willing will towards Him under all circumstances (to begin with).

In due time He converts this mere will into a sweet love, the natural love of the heart and
mind--by Gift of the Father we love Jesus Christ. This is salvation.

But beyond salvation it would feel to be this way--after a further great endeavour and endurance
on our part, a further great striving towards Him, He will awaken and prick to new life the
soul and fill us with Holy Love. This is the second baptism, the baptism of the Spirit of Love.
This is the entry to the Kingdom, and immediately we taste of the Godhead. What this is, what
this ravishment of happiness is, cannot be known or guessed till we ourself have experienced it.

In all this we progress by the communicated Power of Christ. How is this Power to be recognised,
how is it communicated? Can we stand still and receive it like the dew, without work? At first,
no--but later it would almost seem to be yes; or else it is that the exact attitude of heart
and mind necessary for the reception of Grace becomes so habitual, so natural, that eventually
we come to live in a state in which the communication of this Power becomes nearly continuous--though
at any time by negligence or by a wrong attitude of Spirit we fall away from it and lose it
completely, and in all times of temptation or of testing we are cut off from sensible contact
with it.

We learn then that Grace awaits every creature that attunes himself to the Will of Christ:
it awaits good and bad, saint and sinner, it transforms the sinner into the saint, and but
for its deliberate withdrawals we might suppose its action to be automatic, we might suppose
it a fixed power like the sun, shining upon worthy and unworthy alike in degree. But Grace
is far more subtle and mysterious than this. Grace is the most sublime, the most exquisite
secret of all the mysteries which exist between the Soul and her Maker.

* * *

I find that He works upon my soul by two opposite ways: He draws her up to contact and sublime
content; He sets her down to solitude and hides Himself: He is there, and will not speak.

And she suffers horribly: and why not? Where is the injustice of this pain?

Countless ages ago--who can count them?--the soul, born in a palace, has deliberately willed
and chosen to become the Wanderer, the Street Walker; therefore fold up self-pity and lay it
aside, because it does not live in the same house with Truth.

Cast off self-consciousness and pride, because they are ridiculous, and a man can only be great
or noble in just so far as he has abandoned them.

* * *

What is it that often makes it so much harder for the soul to refind God when she is enclosed
in the male body? Perhaps the greater strength of the natural lusts of the male: perhaps the
pride of "Being"--as lord of creation; or the pride of Intelligence which says, I rely easily
upon myself, I need no religion of hymn tunes, I leave hymn tunes to women, for the ardour
and capacity of my manhood rush to far different aims.

But can any sane man think that the Essential Being who has created the universe, with all
its infinite wonders, and this earth with its beauty and its wonderful flesh, and so much more
that is not flesh but the still more wonderful spirit--can any sane man really think that this
Essential Being is stuck fast at hymn tunes (which are Man's own invention!) and knows not
how to satisfy the needs and longings of that which He has Himself created!

Ardent and greatly mistaken Sinner, know and remember that to Find God is to Live Tremendously.

* * *

O belovèd Man with thy strangely vain and small pursuits and pleasures--thy pipe, thy wine,
thy women, thy "busy" city life, thine immense sagacity which once in twenty times outwits
a fool or knave--thy vaunted living is a bubble in a hand-basin!

Find God and Live!

PART IV

I

It would seem that lazily, reposefully, comfortably, easily, we can make no entry into the
kingdom of heaven, but must enter by contest, by great endeavour. The occasions of these contests
will be according to the everyday circumstances of each individual; the stress or distress
of everyday life; for this is Christ's Process--to take the everyday woes and happenings of
life in the flesh and use them for spiritual ends. What does the Saviour Himself tell us of
the means of entry into the Kingdom? He uses two parables--that of the loaves of bread, and
that of the Widow, and both speak of persistent importunity. If we would find God, we must
besiege Him.

Of entry to Christ's Process first it is necessary that we try in everything to please Him:
subjecting our plans, desires, thoughts, intentions, to His secret approval, asking ourselves,
Will this please Him best, or that?

Then the soul commences to truly know, and to respond to, Christ.

