Most men spend their lives in the attempt to accumulate the means to live, and forget to begin
to live at all. Sometimes, as you are riding through the country on a winter evening, you come
to a silent farm- house, and you see one window lighted; and, if you should go and knock at
the door, you would probably find out that the light is shining from the kitchen, where the
family is gathered in the evening, perhaps as a matter of economy to save fire, perhaps to
save trouble. And, if you examine the lives of these people, you would find that they live
chiefly in the kitchen. They may have a sitting-room where they spend a few leisure hours;
perhaps they have the beginning of a library; but they do not spend much time in that. They
have little opportunity for the life of the parlor, representing the expansive, social human
life which comes into contact with other lives. And so you will find that this, which is a
figure, represents that which is true of most of us. We have only begun to live; and we live
in the lower ranges of our nature, or perhaps we have touched life on a higher level in some
tentative sort of way. But the most of us are only partly alive, have only developed a little
of what is possible in us, have only come in contact with some fragments of this wonderful
universe that is all around us on every hand.

What, then, is the meaning of life? What shall we try to do? What are we here for? I do not
attempt to go into the profound explanation of mysteries too deep for me to answer, as to what
must have been in the mind of God when he planned and created this universe of which we are
a part. My task is a humbler one. Let us see if I can help you comprehend a little part of
it. Take an illustration.

An immensely wealthy man suddenly dies, leaving his estates to a little boy seven or eight
years of age. He has wide stretches of land, hill and valley, river, woods, all that is beautiful
as making up a landscape. The house represents the accumulated resources of the experiences
and the intelligence of a lifetime. There are not only beautiful drawing-rooms, telling of
taste, but there is a library in which is all that the world has been able to accumulate of
learning, of literature in every department. Here is another room containing instruments of
music and the works of the great composers. There is an art gallery, containing some of the
finest masterpieces in the way of painting and sculpture; and then there is a room devoted
to scientific experiments,-- chemistry, the microscope, the telescope. Here are means and opportunity
for finding out what the world has so far developed.

Now has this young boy come into possession of these things? He has inherited them, he is his
father's heir. We say they belong to him; but do they belong to him? In what sense and to what
extent do they belong to him? They belong to him just in so far and just as fast as he develops
himself into capacity of comprehension and enjoyment, no faster, no farther. As he enters upon
his inheritance then he is put under tutors. Some man comes to teach him the languages which
he does not comprehend; and by and by that part of the library which is composed of books written
in other speech than his own begins to belong to him. It belongs to the tutor a good deal more
than it does to the child, until the child has learned the lessons of the tutor. And so another
teacher comes to instruct him in art; and the masterpieces of art belong to the person of taste,
of culture, with appreciation, to the teacher again, to any one who knows and who feels, instead
of to the boy, who merely has possession of the title-deeds.

Do you see the suggestion of the picture? Man wakes up here on this planet what sort of a being?
Not at first "a little lower than God," as the old Psalmist says of him, but only a little
higher than the animals, ignorant of himself, ignorant of his surroundings, weak, undeveloped
in every faculty and power. He begins, we say, to live; and what does that mean? He begins
to explore this wonderful world, which is his heritage; and do you not see that along with
this exploration there goes of necessity a process of self- development? I would pit against
that statement of Kant's a phrase something like this. The object of life is threefold: it
is to become all possible, it is to serve all possible, it is to enjoy all possible. But I
cannot outline completely either one of these suggestions; for they blend, they intermingle,
as you will see in a moment. They are like different notes in a piece of music that are so
blended together that they constitute one tune, while separate they are only fragments, or
discords.

The first thing, then, if a man wishes really to live, is that he should develop himself, unfold
the faculties and powers which lie dormant in him. He is a child of God. He is capable of comprehending
within his limit that which is divine. He is capable of being touched, played on, by all the
phases and forces of the universe surrounding him. He is an instrument of ten thousand strings;
and marvellous may be the music of his life.

First, he should be as complete an animal as possible. Then he should develop himself as a
being capable of thinking, of knowing. How many men are there that take possession of the intellectual
realm that lies around them on every hand? Just think. Let me hint suggestions, illustrations,
in one or two directions. A man goes out for a walk in the park, or, better yet, into the country.
The park is too artificial, perhaps, to carry just the meaning that I have in mind. Let it
be a walk in the country, then. How much do the grasses and the flowers have to say to him?

I have a friend in Washington, a famous botanist, a botanist not only of all things that live
and grow to-day, but who has pushed his researches back and down into the prehistoric ages
so as to understand and explain the records, the prints, the leaves and twigs, the forms of
every kind that are on the rocks and left to tell the story of a life that has passed away
many thousands on thousands of years ago. How much of all this marvellous realm, or even a
suggestion of it, is revealed to the ordinary man as he walks through the field?

Look in the direction of geology a moment. Here is a river course; here is the shape of a hill
top; do they say anything to the ordinary man who walks with his head down, and occupied with
some problem of Wall Street, perhaps? Here are marvels of creative power. God shaped the slope
of that hill as really as though he smoothed it down with his hand. And he who understands
the methods of world building, of landscape-sculpture, may stand in wonder and awe and reverence
before the forces that have been at work for millions of years, and are at work the same to-day.
How many men have even a conception of the wonders of the microscopic world? To how many men
do the star have anything to say at night? A man looks at a bowlder, unlike any other rock
there is to be found anywhere in the neighborhood, and perhaps he does not even ask a question
about it; while a man who has made a careful study of these things sees spring up before him
in his imagination that long ice age before man lived on the planet, when this bowlder was
swept from some far-off place by the glacial power, deposited where it is, scraped on its surface
by the passing of the ice, as if God himself had left his sign-manual here, his autograph,
that he, in after- ages who might make himself capable of reading, might understand.

These merely as fragmentary, brief hints of what it is to live in the intellectual realm.

Go up to that realm where the intellect is blended with the emotions, the glamour of pictures,
poetry, sculpture, music, beauty of color and form and sound. What a world this is, infinite
resources of an infinite universe, appealing to, and, if a man responds, calling out the faculties
and powers of his own nature that are capable of dealing with these things, so that a man may
feel that he is thinking over the thoughts of God, tracing his footsteps, listening to the
marvellous music of his words! This is one of the results of self-development, if a man is
unfolding, developing himself, becoming as much as possible.

Now let us turn sharply to one of these other phases which I spoke of, of doing what we can
to help the world. And now note, this universe is so cunningly contrived that a man cannot
possibly be successful as a selfish man. It is one of the most conclusive proofs, it seems
to me, not only of the divine goodness, but of the moral meaning and scope of the world. Selfishness
is not wicked only, it is the most outrageous folly on the face of the earth. If a man develop
himself, if he develops that which is finest in him, that which is best and sweetest and truest,
he develops not only his power to think, but his capacity to love, his capacity to enjoy, and
to bestow enjoyment; and he cannot possibly succeed in the long run, and in the best ways,
on selfish lines.

People used to have a notion that he who grasped and retained everything he could get hold
of was the fortunate, the successful man. People had an idea in politics, for example, that
that nation was happiest which humbled other nations; and, if it was superior to all the rest,
by as much as they were poor and devastated, this nation was fortunate. We know now that a
nation finds its prosperity in that of other nations, in its ability to exchange, to trade,
to carry on all the grand avocations of life with them. If a man writes a book, he wants the
world intelligent enough to understand and appreciate it. If a man paints a picture, he wants
artistic ability on the part of the public, so that they will appreciate and buy his pictures.
If a man carves a statue, he wants the people to appreciate glory of form enough to see how
great and true his work is, and reward him for his endeavor. In other words, no man would write
a book, and go off with it alone by himself. No man would paint a picture, and hide it. No
man would carve a statue, and conceal it from his fellows.

We have learned, and are learning constantly in every direction, that our happiness is involved
in the happiness of other people. The world is haunted to-day and I thank God that it is with
the thought of the unhappiness, the misery, of men. What does it mean? It means that men have
developed so on their sympathetic side that they cannot be happy themselves while the world
is unhappy. So you see that this self- development, which I placed as the chief thing at the
outset in the meaning of life, carries with it the necessity on the part of those who are developed,
of doing everything they can to develop and lift up everybody else; so that making the most
of yourself means making the most of everybody else.

And now, if I turn for a moment to that other point, merely to distinguish it by itself, although
I have been dealing with it all the while, the end and aim of life once more is to be happy.
I am perfectly well aware that the old Puritan theology has taught otherwise, so far as this
life is concerned. I was brought up with the feeling that, if I wanted to do anything, the
chances were it was wrong, that it was a good deal more likely to be in the way of virtue if
it was something that was disagreeable to me. And yet, curiously enough, this old Puritan theology
invented and held up before men, as a lure to lead them to virtue, the most tremendous bribe
that ever entered into the imaginations of men, eternal felicity on the one hand, and eternal
woe on the other. So that it conceded the very thing that it seemed to deny, that men naturally
and necessarily sought happiness, and could not possibly do otherwise.

And so we learn to live, to think, to serve others. We are beginning to learn also that this
desire for happiness is natural, is necessary, is right. If a man is not happy, you may be
sure there is something wrong. If there is pain in the body, it means disease, difficulty,
obstruction, something out of the way. It means that God's laws are not perfectly kept. If
there is pain up in the mental realm, pain in the moral realm, pain in the spiritual realm,
it means always something wrong. Man ought to be happy. He ought to seek happiness as the great
end and outcome of human life.

And we are learning, as the natural and necessary result of our experiences in knowing and
in serving, that just in so far as we know the laws of God, just in so far as we obey the laws
of God, just in so far as we help others to know and obey, just in so far there comes into
our lives the blessedness of the blessed God.

The end of life, then, the object of life here on earth, is to develop ourselves to the utmost.
It is to learn to know, take possession of our inheritance, this earth, control all its forces
for the service of civilization. It is to rejoice in all this self-development, in all this
help, in all this knowledge, in all this power. It is to feel ourselves thrilling with the
consciousness that we are sons of God, and are co-operating with him in bringing about the
grand result of the ages, the perfection of man.

And then what? Death? This is only one stage of our career. We are here at school; we learn
our lessons or we do not; we attain the ends we seek after or we only partly attain them or
do not attain them at all; and then we go on. Does that mean that it ends there? I do not believe
it. I believe that it simply means that we go out into a larger opportunity, from the planet
to the system, to the galaxy, to the universe, wider knowledge answering to more magnificent
resources in the infinite universe. We, with undeveloped powers that may increase and advance
forever, and a universe so complete, so exhaustless, that it may match and lure and lead and
rejoice us forever; we being trained as God's children in God's likeness and helping others
to attain the same magnificent ends, this I believe to be the significance, the meaning, the
purpose, of life.

Are there any here this morning who think or fear that the taking away of the old idea concerning
the results of Lying may remove moral motive, may undermine character, nay make people less
careful to do right? It seems to me hat, if people understand the significance of this universe,
and their relation to it, they will find that all the carelessness of motive, the ease of salvation,
as they call it, is with the old idea. Our theory is a more strenuous and insistent one. Children
are learning as they become wiser that evil is not only evil, but it is folly. A man wishes
life, health, happiness, prosperity, all good. He learns, as he goes on, that the universe
is in favor of the keeping of its own laws; and that, f he flings himself against the forces
of the universe, he is only broken for his pains. If you wish to be healthful, sappy, strong,
wish to attain any desirable thing, it is to be bound not in defiance of the laws of the universe,
but in loving and tender obedience.

And, then, if you only remember that in this universe and coder the universal law of cause
and effect you are building to-morrow out of to-day, and next week and next year, and all he
future, that every thought, every word, every action, is  cemented together as a part of this
structure that you build, hat you can make your own future for good or ill, and that you cannot
build it successfully except in accordance with he eternal laws of things, then you find that
here are the most insistent and tremendous motives it is possible for the human mind to conceive.

This life of ours, if we lead it nobly and truly, then, we shall find to be a growth into the
likeness of the Divine, a growth into an increasing opportunity to share the work of our Father
in building and helping men, and that, as the result of this, joy, infinite joy, is to fill
our hearts until we share the very blessedness of our Father.

God made our lives to be a song Sweet as the music of the spheres, That still their harmonies
prolong For him who rightly hears. The heavens and the earth do play Upon us, if we be in tune:
Winter shouts hoarse his roundelay, And tender sweet pipes June. But oftentimes the songs are
pain, And discord mars our harmonies: Our strings are snapped by selfish strain, And harsh
hands break our keys. But God meant music; and we may, If we will keep our lives in tune, Hear
the whole year sing roundelay, December answering June. God ever at his keyboard plays, Harmonics,
right; and discords, wrong: "He that hath ears," and who obeys, May hear the mystic song.

SIN AND ATONEMENT.

For the sake of clearness, and in order that you may definitely comprehend the doctrine of
sin and atonement which I believe to be the true one, I need in the first place to outline
as a background that which lies at the foundation of all the popular theologies of Christendom.
I am perfectly well aware that at least a part of the time, while I am doing this, I shall
be traversing ground with which you are already familiar. Some of it, however, I think may
be somewhat strange to you.

The tradition begins with the story of a war in heaven. In some way rebellion began among the
angels; and he who had been Lucifer, the light-bearer, prince among the glorious sons of God,
took up arms of rebellion against the Almighty. Naturally, he failed in this inevitably losing
battle, and was cast out into the abyss, with a third part of all the angels, who had followed
him. Then the tradition goes on: God decided to create the world, that the sons of men born
and trained here might ultimately take the places that had been held by the angels who had
been cast out on account of their sin. But Satan, seeing this fair and beautiful earth, this
wondrous handiwork of God, determined, if possible, to thwart and defeat the purposes of the
Almighty. He therefore invades this beautiful world. He finds Adam and Eve in their condition
of perfect felicity, innocent, but inexperienced; and they fall a ready prey to his intention.

They then share his rebellion, accept him instead of God as king. Henceforth they are followers
of him in his age-long warfare against light and truth, and, unless in some way saved, are
to be sharers of his eternal destiny, cast out into chains and darkness forever.

Now comes the necessity for noting for a moment the nature of sin on this theory. You see it
is not ignorance, it is not weakness merely, it is not inherited passion only: it is conscious
and purposeful rebellion against God, putting yourself at enmity with his truth, his righteousness,
his love. In action it is some specific deed done against God or against his truth or his right.
As a state of mind, it is a heart perverted, choosing always that which is evil, a heart at
enmity with God and with all that is good; and the theologians have always been obliged, as
a matter of consistency, to hold, no matter how noble, how unselfish men might appear to be,
that the natural man has inherently, always, necessarily been evil. He carries about with him
the taint of original sin; that is, sin of constitution, ingrained, inherited, that which is
of the very fibre of his being. This is the character of man as required by the old theological
systems; and this is how it happened to come about. Evil is not something natural, not imperfection,
not something undeveloped, not yet outgrown. Sin originated outside of this world, invaded
it, and worked its ruin and destruction.

Now comes the device that has been called the Atonement, by which it is supposed that God is
going to be able to save at least a part of this rebellious humanity. There have been a good
many different theories of the atonement that have been held, eighteen or twenty varieties
of the doctrine, three or four of which I must outline, in order to make them clear to your
mind, that you may see what have been the devices by which the theologians have supposed that
they could find a way for the deliverance of man from this condition of loss, and fit him to
share the felicity for which he was originally intended.

Of course, the main point in the whole scheme is that the Second Person of the Trinity becomes
incarnate, comes down here to this world, is born, grows up, teaches, suffers and at last is
put to an ignominious death. This is the central idea of the doctrine of the atonement; or,
rather, the Christ is the central figure in that doctrine. But how is it supposed to work out
the atonement that is necessary, in order that man may be saved? You will see that the world,
according to the ideas I have been delineating, is in a condition of rebellion. What men need
is to be persuaded that they are wrong, convinced of sin, in theological language, and then
made repentant, and in some way be forgiven for the wrong which they have done.

Now it is supposed that God must invent some scheme by which to make it possible for him to
save these lost and fallen men. If you read the parable of the Prodigal Son as Jesus has so
tenderly, touchingly, beautifully outlined it for us, you will see that there is no thought
or plan or necessity for either in that. The son left his home, followed the impulses and passions
of youth, had gone among those that were degraded, had soiled his character, done despite to
his father's love, injured his own nature, degraded himself by his associations and actions.
But when at last he awakes, becomes conscious of his father's love and righteousness and truth,
and says, "I will arise, and go to my father," there is no talk of God's not being ready to
receive him, or not being able to receive him, or needing to have something done before he
can receive him, no thought of anybody's suffering any more in order that he may be forgiven.
You see all these elements that are associated with the popular doctrines of atonement are
not once thought of, never even alluded to. He simply arises, and goes to his father; and his
father is so anxious to help him that he goes to meet him before he reaches the father's house,
and gladly falls on his neck and kisses him and folds him in his arms. It only needs that the
son should recognize the righteousness and goodness of his father, and should wish to go back.
That is the doctrine of Jesus as taught in this wonderfully sweet and beautiful parable.

Now what are the theories of atonement as outlined in the popular theology? For the first thousand
years of Christian history one of the strangest conceptions possessed the ecclesiastical mind
that has ever been dreamed of. It was held literally that through the sin of Adam the human
race had become the rightful subjects of Satan, that they belonged to him. He was their king,
their emperor, their ruler, and had a right to them in this world and the next. And so some
diplomatic negotiations must be entered into with the Devil, in order to deliver a certain
part of these his subjects, and open the way for them to be saved. So the Church Fathers taught
that Satan recognized in Christ his old adversary in heaven, and he entered into a bargain
with God that, if he could have Christ delivered over to him, in exchange for that he would
give up his right to so many of the souls of men as were to be saved as the result of this
compact. So the work of the atonement used to be preached as being this sort of bargain entered
into with Satan.

But note what quaint, naive ideas possessed the minds of people at that time. Satan did not
know that Jesus possessed a divine nature, and that, consequently, he could not beholden of
death; and so, when he entered into this bargain, he was cheated, he found out to his dismay
that he had lost not only humanity, but Christ also, had been defrauded of them both. This
was the doctrine of the atonement that was preached during the early centuries of the Christian
Church, at least in certain parts of Europe.

But later there came another doctrine, the belief that the sufferings of the Christ were a
substitute offered to God for what would have been the sufferings of the lost. He was made
sin for us, he who had known no sin, as the New Testament phraseology has it. So that he, being
infinite, in a brief space of time during his little earthly career, during his suspension
on the cross and his descent into hell, was able to suffer as much pain as all the lost would
have suffered throughout eternity. And this suffering of the Christ was supposed to be accepted
on the part of God as the substitute for that which he would have exacted on the part of the
souls of those that for his sake were to be saved.

There is still another theory that I must mention briefly, that which is called the governmental
theory, that which I was taught during my course of theological instruction. The idea was that
God had a moral government to maintain, not only on this earth, but throughout the range of
the universe among all his intelligent creatures, and, if he permitted his laws to be broken
without exacting an adequate penalty, then all governmental authority would be overthrown.
In other words, men took their poor human legal devices, their political ideals, and lifted
them into the heavens, made them the models after which it was supposed God was to govern his
great, intelligent universe.

So they said that God would be willing to forgive, he would like to forgive, he was loving
and tender and kind, but it was not safe, safe for the interests of his universal government,
for him to forgive any one until an adequate penalty had been paid in expiation of human sin.

You see, according to this theory, it does not apparently make much difference who it is that
suffers, whether it is the person who has committed the sin or not; but somebody must pay an
adequate penalty, and Jesus volunteered to do this, to be the victim, and so to deliver man
from the righteous deserts which he had incurred as a transgressor of the law of God.

Gradually, however, as the world became civilized, as wider and broader thoughts manifested
themselves in the human mind, as tenderer and truer feelings took possession of the human heart,
these theories receded into the background; and there came to the front I remember the bitter
controversies over it in my younger days what was called the Moral Theory of the Atonement.
The originator and sponsor for this theory was the famous Dr. Horace Bushnell, of Hartford.
He taught that God did not need the punishment of anybody to uphold the integrity of his moral
government. He taught that God was not angry with the race, and did not care to exact a penalty
before he was ready to forgive human sin. He taught that the inner nature of God was love,
and that in the Second Person of the Trinity he came to earth, was born, grew up, taught, suffered,
died, as a manifestation to the world of his love, of his goodness, of his readiness to forgive
and help, and that the efficacy of the atonement as thus wrought on the part of the Christ
was in its revelation to men of the love and saving power of righteousness.

This was the moral theory of the atonement. It was not supposed to work any result in the nature
of God or his disposition towards men. Its effect was to work along the lines of human thought
and human action: it was to affect men, and make them willing to be saved instead of making
God willing to save them. This was the moral theory of the atonement; and you will see how
it gradually approaches that which intelligent and free men, it seems to me, must hold to-day
in the light of their careful study of human history and human nature. It is almost the theory
which is being held by the freest and noblest men of to-day. The difference between it and
that which I shall in a moment try to set forth is chiefly that Dr. Bushnell confines this
work of the atonement to the person and history and character of one man instead of letting
all men share in this divine and atoning work which is being wrought out through all the ages.

Let me now come to set forth what I believe to be the simple and demonstrated truth. My objections
against this old theory are threefold. I will mention them, and have done with them in a word.

In the first place, the supposed origin of sin in heaven seems to me so absurd as to be utterly
unthinkable. This idea of war in heaven, rebellion against God, smacks too much of the Old
World traditions, of the mythologies of Greece and Rome and of other peoples. Jupiter could
dethrone his father, the god Saturn, because Saturn was not almighty and all-wise. These gods
of the ancient time were merely exaggerated types of human heroes and despots. There could
be war among them, and one of them overthrown; and Jupiter could divide the universe, after
he had conquered and dethroned his father, with his two brothers.

All this is reasonable, when you are talking about finite creatures; but try to think for one
moment of an archangel, a pure and clear-eyed intelligence, deliberately choosing to rebel
against Omnipotence! He must have known it would be utterly, absolutely, forever hopeless!
Intelligent creatures do not rebel under conditions like that, particularly when you combine
with the absolute hopelessness of the case the fact that he knew he was choosing misery, suffering,
forever.

As I said, the whole conception of the origin of evil that implies the rebellion of a spiritual
being who knew what he was doing is inexpressibly absurd, so absurd that we may dismiss it
as impossible. If there were any such rebellion, if you waive the absurdity for the moment
and consider the possibility, God would be responsible; for he made him. The whole theory is
not only absurd: it is unjust in its implications towards both God and man. And then, and perhaps
we need not say any more about it, we know that it is not true. It did not even originate in
the Bible, it did not even originate among the Jews: it is nothing in the world but a pagan
myth imported into Jewish tradition just a few hundred years before the birth of Jesus. It
is of no more authority in rational human thought than the story of Jason or Hercules, not
one particle.

Let us now turn, then, to what we know, from the history of man and the scientific study of
the universe, to be something approaching the reality of things. People have always been talking
about the origin of evil. It is not the origin of evil that we have to face or deal with or
explain at all. Let me ask you to consider for a moment the condition of the world when man
first appeared on this planet. Here among the lower animals were what? All the vices and all
the crimes that we can conceive of, only they were not vices nor crimes at all. There were
all the external actions and all the internal feelings and passions; but they were not vices,
and they were not crimes. Why? Because there was no moral sense which recognized anything better,
no moral standard in the light of which they might be judged.

