It was so, first, because the Crown was extremely old. From the beginning of the reign of the
Royal Family Everyone, no one knows how many thousands of ages ago, it had passed from king
to king, even until that day.

It was so, second, because the Crown was exceedingly valuable. From the very beginning of the
beginning each ruler had in turn added a jewel to the golden, gem encrusted emblem of his rank.

It was so, third, because the Crown was a Magic Crown, though no one then knew its magic--they
knew only that its magic was.

Therefore, again, O Hadji, is this Tale.

Also, in those days, there was about this Royal City a Wall--a wall built, so they said, on
the very foundations of the world; so strong that no force could breach it, and so high that
the clouds often hid its towers and battlements. Only from the topmost cupola of the Royal
Palace could one see over this mighty barrier. Only by the Two Great Gates could one pass through.

And so the good people of Allthetime could all quite clearly see that in the Royal City Daybyday
the precious Magic Crown was as safe as ever crown could be. And it was so, O Hadji--it was
so. The Crown was as safe as ever crown could be--as safe indeed as ever a crown can be.

And this too is truth, O Hadji; that in Daybyday, even now, you may find ruins of the many
temples, and here and there a little of the many gods. Even now you may see where the Great
Wall was. But of the Crown, in these days, there is nothing--nothing.

And this is how it happened--this is the way it came to be.

King What-Soever-Youthink was the father of two sons; twins they were, and their names--Really-Is
and Seemsto-Be. No one in all the kingdom could tell them one from the other, though the princes
themselves knew that Really-Is was first born, and that when the wise king, their father, died,
it would be for him to occupy the throne, to wear the Crown, and rule the Land of Allthetime.

One day when the young princes were playing in the palace yard they discovered, by chance,
an old door that led to the stairway in a tower. Of course they climbed up, up, up, until they
stood at last in the cupola at the very top. Far beneath their feet they saw the roofs of the
Royal Palace, and the gardens, fields, and orchards, like spots and splashes of color. The
walks and courts appeared as lines and squares of white, while the soldiers and servants moved
about like tiny animated dots. Reaching away from the palace grounds on every side was the
wonderful city Daybyday, so far below that no sound could reach their ears. To their delight,
the princes found that they could even look down upon the Great Wall; and, because there were
that day no clouds to shut out the view, they could see far, far away over the Land of Allthetime.

"Look, brother," cried Seemsto-Be, catching Really-Is by the arm in quick excitement, "Look!
what is that flashing and gleaming in the sun?"

As he spoke, he pointed afar off to the land beyond the river that marks the end of Allthetime.

"I'm sure I cannot tell;" answered Really-Is, shading his eyes with his open hand and gazing
long and earnestly in the direction his brother indicated; "It looks--it looks like a city."

"It is, it is," cried Seemsto-Be. "It is the City Sometime in the Land of Yettocome. I remember
hearing once the Chief Gardener telling the Chief Coachman about it, and he said that the Chief
Cook said that he heard the Captain of the Guard say that it is far more wonderful than our
own city Daybyday; and it must be so, Really-Is, for see, brother, how the walls shine like
polished silver, and look! Is not that a palace or a temple blazing so like a ruby flame?"

Often after that did the twin princes, Really-Is and Seemsto-Be, climb the winding stairs in
the palace tower and look away over the Great Wall of Daybyday to the City Sometime in the
Land of Yettocome. Many were the hours they spent talking of the marvelous place that so filled
the distance with dazzling splendor. And at last, when the princes were quite grown, they went
before their royal father and asked permission to visit the city they had seen.

Now King What-Soever-Youthink was very sad when his sons made their request, but nevertheless,
because he was a wise king, he gave his royal consent, and, that the brothers might make their
journey in comfort, presented to each a priceless horse from the palace stables. To Really-Is
he gave Reality; to Seemsto-Be he gave Appearance; and both were steeds of noble breeding,
swift and strong, beautiful and proud--as like even as the royal twins, their masters.

So it came that the two princes bade farewell to their father, the King, and rode bravely out
of the city Daybyday, through the Land of Allthetime, and along the way that leads to the City
Sometime in the Land of Yettocome.

"And this, O Hadji," said the Voice of the Waves, "is all of The Tale of The Uncrowned King
that is given me to tell."

The liquid music of the waves came no longer through the open window--the voice that was in
the music came no more to the Pilgrim in The Quiet Room. Without the Temple the tall trees
were still-still and silent were the sweet-voiced birds. The sunlight and shadow fairies had
danced to the ends of the lanes of gold--danced to the very ends and were gone. The feathery
cloud ships in the blue above seemed to lie at anchor, and over the surface of the Beautiful
Sea no laughing ripples ran to play on the pebbly beach.

The Pilgrim arose from his couch, and, going to the open window, looked, and there, in the
still, fathomless, depth of the clear water, he saw as in a crystal glass the wonderful city
Daybyday with its canals and harbors, its parks and drives, its groves and gardens, its palaces
and temples.

Then, even as the Pilgrim looked, quickly the Evening Wind sprang up. Again the tall trees
rustled their leaves, the cloud ships lifted their anchors, the waves of the Beautiful Sea
ran joyously; the Vision in the Deeps Beneath was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

AND THE SECOND VOICE WAS THE VOICE OF THE EVENING WIND

It was early twilight when the Pilgrim in The Quiet Room returned to his couch and to his meditations.

Without the Temple, the last of the day was stealing over the rim of the world into the mysterious
realm of the yesterdays. The feathery cloud ships no longer floated white in the depth of blue,
but with wide flung sails of rose and crimson swept over an ocean of amethyst and gold. The
ripples that ran on the Beautiful Sea were edged with yellow and scarlet flame, while leaf,
and blade, and flower, and bird, and all of their kind and kin, were singing their evensong.
Sweetly, softly, the choral anthem stole through the open window into The Quiet Room.

And after a little the Pilgrim heard, whispering low, in the twilight hymn, the Voice of the
Evening Wind.

Said the Voice: "To thee, O Hadji, I come from the Boundless Ocean Above that begins wherever
you are and extends farther away than the farthest point your thought can reach. I speak from
out the Deeps Beyond. I tell of the Great That May Be. I too am a Voice of Life and mine it
is to continue for you The Tale of The Uncrowned King."

And this is the part of the Tale that was told by the Voice of the Evening Wind.

The twin princes Really-Is and Seemsto-Be, on their good horses Reality and Appearance, journeyed
very pleasantly through the Land of Allthetime toward the City Sometime in the Land of Yettocome.
Ever as they went the Royal travelers saw before them the walls of the city gleaming like polished
silver in the sun, and high above the shining walls the great palace or temple that flamed
like a ruby flame. Always as they rode the two talked gaily, in glad anticipation of the marvels
they would certainly see, of the pleasures they would surely find, and of the delightful adventures
that without doubt awaited them. So at last they arrived at the city gate, which was a gate
all scrolled and patterned with precious gems.

Fairer than the dreams of angels, O Hadji, is the City Sometime in the Land of Yettocome. Of
such radiant splendors, such dazzling brilliancy, such transcending glory there are yet no
words fashioned to tell. It is a city, in the form and manner of its building, of exquisite
loveliness, of fairy grace, of towering grandeur. It is a city in the beauty and richness of
its color, all emerald, rose, and purple, all ruby, crimson and gold.

As the twin princes of Allthetime rode slowly through the wide jeweled gate and along the noble
streets and stately avenues, they exclaimed aloud with delight and wonder at the enchanting
beauty of the scene. More than they had heard at home was true. The poorest of the buildings
in Sometime far exceeded in splendor the richest of the palaces in Daybyday; while before the
palaces of Sometime, Really-Is and Seemsto-Be stood speechless and amazed. They were fairly
drunken with the flashing, flaming, blazing, blinding glory of the sight.

The people of Sometime, too, were exceeding fair and very charming in their manner, and they
welcomed the princes from Daybyday with a joyous welcome, answering their questions gladly
and escorting them to the palace of their king. For you must know, O Hadji, that the City Sometime,
too, is a Royal City, the home of Lookingahead, who rules over the Land of Yettocome. And King
Lookingahead received his noble visitors with gladness and had great pleasure, he said, in
presenting them to his two daughters, the princesses of Yettocome, Fancy and Imagination, who
were fairer than any women the princes of Daybyday had ever seen, even in the loveliest of
their dreams.

For a long happy, happy time Really-Is and Seemsto-Be remained in the City Sometime. Every
day, and every day, with the royal princesses Fancy and Imagination for their guides, they
rode or drove through the wide streets and broad avenues, walked in the beautiful gardens,
explored the shadowy groves or visited the many palaces. And in this way it was that the charming
princesses showed to their noble guests all the wonders of the Royal City of the Realm of Yettocome,
pointing out for them every day new beauties, finding for them always new pleasures, leading
them ever to fresh scenes of enchanting loveliness. And in turn the princes told their fair
guides many things of their own city, Daybyday, in the Land of Allthetime; of the people with
their many temples and their many gods; of their father What-Soever-Youthink and his wise reign.
But most of all did they tell of the wonderful Crown, so very old, so very valuable, and how
it was a Magic Crown, though no one then knew its magic, but knew only that its magic was.

Thus Really-Is and Seemsto-Be learned that the dwellers in Sometime were unlike the people
of Daybyday in many ways, but in no way more than this, that they worshiped one god only, only
one. The temple sacred to this god stood in the very heart of the city, which is the very heart
of the land, and it was this temple, blazing like a ruby flame high above the shining city
walls, the princes had seen from the tower of their palace home.

Often, very often did the four young people visit this shrine in Sometime with rich offerings
to the god, Itmightbe.

But there came a time at last when, returning from a long ramble through the city, Really-Is
and Seemsto-Be were met at the palace door by a royal messenger from home with the word that
King What-Soever-Youthink was dead, and that the princes must hasten back to Daybyday, where
Really-Is would be crowned with the Magic Crown and become the Ruler of Allthetime.

All was hurry and confusion in the palace of Lookingahead as the guests made swift preparations
for their journey. Quickly the word went throughout the city and many charming people came
to express regret, to sympathize and to bid the young men good-speed and safe going on their
homeward way. The princesses, Fancy and Imagination, were very sad at losing their pleasant
companions; and the Chief High Priest of the Temple commanded services and offerings extraordinary
to the god Itmightbe.

"And this, O Hadji," whispered the Voice of the Evening Wind, "is all of The Tale of The Uncrowned
King that is given me to tell."

The evening song of leaf and blade, and flower and bird, and all their kind and kin, ceased
to come through the open window into The Quiet Room. The low Voice of the Evening Wind no longer
whispered to the Pilgrim as he lay upon his couch. Without the Temple the eventide was passing
from over the silent land and over the silent sea.

For a little the Pilgrim waited; then rising from his couch, again he went to the open window,
and lo! in the evening sky he saw the City Sometime in the Land of Yettocome. All the wondrous
castles and palaces were there, marvelous in their beauty, glorious in their splendor, dazzling
in their colors of emerald, rose and purple, of ruby, crimson and gold. From spire and dome,
cupola and turret, tower and battlement the lights flashed and gleamed, while the Pilgrim looked
in wonder and in awe. And high above the city walls, that shone as burnished silver in the
sun, rose the temple flaming like a ruby flame--the temple sacred to the god Itmightbe.

Slowly, slowly, the last of the twilight passed. Slowly, the graceful lines, the proud forms,
the majestic piles of the city melted--melted, blurred and were lost even as are lost the form
and loveliness of a snow flake on the sleeve. Slowly, slowly, the glorious colors faded as
fade the flowers at the touch of frost. The lights went out. The darkness came. The city that
is fairer than an angel's dream was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

AND THE THIRD VOICE WAS THE VOICE OF THE NIGHT

It was full night when the Pilgrim turned again to seek his couch.

Without the Temple it was very still--dark and still. Very still was it within The Quiet Room,
and the darkness that came stealing through the open window was a thick and heavy darkness.
The Pilgrim lay upon his couch staring with blank, unseeing eyes into a blackness wherein there
was not even a spot of gray to show where the window was.

And after a little there came out of the heavy darkness the sad, sad Voice of the Night.

Said the Voice: "To thee, O Hadji, I come from the Limitless Realm of the Past that begins
this moment and reaches back even beyond the day of all beginnings. I speak from the Deeps
Above. I tell of the Great That Was. I also am a Voice of Life, and mine it is to tell you
yet more of The Tale of The Uncrowned King."

And this is the part of the Tale that was told by the Voice of the Night.

Now it happened, as things sometime so happen, that Really-Is lingered over long, saying good-bye
to his friends in the City Sometime in the Land of Yettocome; and that when he had lingered
long with his friends he stayed yet longer with the beautiful princess, Imagination.

So it was that, while the prince was promising many promises and receiving in turn promises
as many, his brother, Seemsto-Be, mounted and was well started on his journey before the heir
to the throne of Allthetime was in the saddle. With the last good-bye spoken to his royal friends,
the last promise promised to the fair princess, and the last farewell waved to the charming
people, Really-Is urged his horse fast and faster, thinking thus to overtake his brother. But
very soon Really-Is found that, fast as he rode his good horse Reality, Seemsto-Be on Appearance
rode faster. Greater and greater grew the distance between the two princes--farther and farther
ahead rode Seemsto-Be; until at last, when the distance between them was such that he could,
no longer see his brother, Really-Is, the rightful heir to the throne of Allthetime, understood
that Seemsto-Be was riding to win the Crown.

"For you must not forget, O Hadji," said the sad Voice of the Night, "that no one in Daybyday
could tell the twins, Really-Is and Seemsto-Be, one from the other, and therefore, you see,
the prince who first reached the Royal City would surely be proclaimed king."

Hard and fast, fast and hard, rode the two who raced for the Crown of Allthetime. But always
Appearance the horse of Seemsto-Be, proved faster than Reality, the horse of Really-Is, and
so the prince who was first born rode far behind.

Now just this side of the river that marks the end of the Land of Allthetime the road divides,
the way to the left leading to the Brazen Gate called Chance, and the other, to the right,
going straight to the Golden Gate, Opportunity. And just here it is, at the parting of the
ways, that Wisdom lives in his little house beside the road.

When Really-Is in turn arrived at this place, he dismounted from his tired horse, and approaching
the little house, asked of Wisdom if he had seen one pass that way riding in great haste.

"Aye, that I have," replied Wisdom with a smile, "that I have, young sir, and many would say
that it was yourself who rode so hard."

"It was my brother, good sir," replied the prince. "May I ask which way he went and how far
he rides ahead?"

The old man, pointing, answered: "He took the road to the left there and he rides so far ahead
that you cannot now overtake him this side the city walls."

"At least I must try to overtake him," answered the prince, and, thanking the old man, he turned
quickly to mount his horse again.

But Wisdom cried, "Why so fast? Why so fast? Is not your brother's name Seemsto-Be? And are
not you, Really-Is, the rightful heir to the throne of Allthetime?"

"It is indeed so, sir," replied the young man sadly. "I am Really-Is. I was born before my
brother, Seemsto-Be, and am, therefore, the rightful heir to the Crown. Our father, King What-Soever-Youthink,
is dead, and I must hasten or my brother will be crowned king, for as you see, the people cannot
tell us one from the other."

Then said Wisdom: "But you will gain nothing by haste, oh Really-Is,--nothing but time, and
there is much of greater value than time to a King of Allthetime. Even now is Seemsto-Be entering
the city. Even now is he by the people being hailed King. Therefore, tarry a while before you
act and listen to my words."

So it was that Really-Is paused on his journey to sit awhile with Wisdom in the little house
by the side of the road.

Then did Wisdom take from his shelves many a ponderous, time worn volume and read to the prince
History, Prophecy and Law, revealing to him thus the Secret of the Magic of the Crown of Allthetime.

And from the last volume, that which Wisdom read to Really-Is was this: "Be it known, O whosoever
readeth, that if any prince of the royal family Everyone enter the city Daybyday through the
Brazen Gate called Chance, he shall be forever held unworthy of the throne and crown. In the
sacred Law of All the Ages it is written that a King of Allthetime may enter the Royal City
only through the Golden Gate Opportunity."

Wisdom closed the book and returned this volume also to its place.

Really-Is arose to go.

"And what now is your mind, young sir?" asked Wisdom kindly.

Then Really-Is answered royally: "This you have taught me, O Wisdom--this is my mind: The Crown
is not the kingdom, nor is one King because he wears a crown."

Then did Wisdom with bowed head salute the True King. "And your will, Sire; may I know your
Majesty's will?"

King Really-Is replied: "My will is this: that I myself obey the sacred Law of The Ages."

"And your brother, Sire, your brother, Seemsto-Be?"

"I will pity Seemsto-Be," replied The King in sorrow, "I will have much pity for that poor,
foolish one."

"And peace will dwell in thy heart, O King of Allthetime," said Wisdom, "true peace and understanding."

Then Really-Is, alone and unattended, rode slowly on his way.

And Seemsto-Be, who rode so fast and so far ahead of Really-Is, and who paused not at the house
of Wisdom, entered the city Daybyday through the Brazen Gate called Chance, and was received
by the people of many races, languages, names and religions as their king.

With great tumult and shouting, with grand processions and ceremonies, the false prince ascended
the throne of Allthetime and was crowned with the Magic Crown--the Crown of which no one then
knew its magic, but knew only that its magic was.

Then began such times as were never before nor since seen in Daybyday; with holiday after holiday
for the people, with festivals and parades, with carnivals and games, with feasting and dancing;
until the chief occupation of the people was forgotten--until their many temples were empty,
their many gods neglected; until with a fete extraordinary, Seemsto-Be decreed that there should
be from henceforth and forever, in Daybyday, one temple only--one temple sacred to one god,
the god Things-Are-Good-Enough.

"And this, O Hadji," said the sad Voice of the Night, "is all The Tale of The Uncrowned King
that is given me to tell."

The Voice in the darkness ceased. The Pilgrim, rising, groped his way to the window.

Without, all was dark with a thick darkness--all was still with a heavy stillness. Only the
stars were in the Deeps Above. The stars so old, so ever new--only the stars. Lifting his face,
the Pilgrim looked at the stars, and lo! as he looked, those whirling worlds of light shaped
themselves into mighty letters, and the letters shaped themselves into words, until in the
heavens the Pilgrim read the truth that Wisdom had given to Really-Is in the little house beside
the road. "The Crown is not the kingdom, nor is one King because he wears a crown."

Then even as he stood the Pilgrim saw the sad Night preparing to depart. Far away beyond the
stars the first faint light of the morning touched the sky. Slowly the world began to awake.
Slowly the message in the stars was lost in the dawning greater light of A New Day.

       *       *       *       *       *

AND THE FOURTH VOICE WAS THE VOICE OF THE NEW DAY.

It was gray dawn when the Pilgrim turned once more to his couch in The Quiet Room.

Without the Temple, tree and bush and plant and grass were beginning to stir with fresh and
joyous strength, while the clean air was rich with the smell of the earth life and filled with
murmuring, twittering, whispering, morning calls. Through the open window, into The Quiet Room
where the Pilgrim lay, the Bright Morning entered, and out of the Morning came the glad, glad
Voice of the New Day.

Said this Voice to the Pilgrim: "To thee, O Hadji, I come from the Infinite Future. The interminable,
eternal times that are to come, that begin but never end. I cry from the Deeps Within. I call
from the Great That Will Be. I, too, am a Voice of Life, and mine it is to complete for you
The Tale of The Uncrowned King."

And this is the part of the Tale that the Voice of the New Day completed.

Really-Is, the true King of Allthetime, after leaving Wisdom in his little house beside the
road, journeyed slowly and thoughtfully toward the Royal City Daybyday, along the way that
leads to the Golden Gate Opportunity. And while the pretender, Seemsto-Be, was delighting the
people with great feasts, and amusing them with all manner of festivals, parades and games,
Really-Is, very quietly--so quietly that his brother did not know--entered the city and took
up his abode in a tiny house under the walls of a deserted temple once sacred to the god Things-That-Ought-To-Be.

And so it was that when Seemsto-Be went forth from the royal palace to ride in grand procession,
clothed in regal splendors, with the Crown upon his head, and surrounded by gorgeous soldiers
of rank and pompous officials of state, with the royal trumpeters proclaiming his greatness
and power and the multitude shouting loud expressions of their loyalty, Really-Is, the King,
stood still beside the way, smiling, smiling sadly at the pretty show.

And never did Really-Is neglect to make his offering every morning in the temple sacred to
the god Things-That-Ought-To-Be; though in secret he worshiped there because of the decree
of Seemsto-Be. And no one told the false ruler that his commandment was broken, nor spoke to
him the name of his brother Really-Is.

But after a while, as time passed by, things went not so gaily with the impostor on the throne
of Allthetime. And it was the Crown that did it--that wonderful Magic Crown.

The Court Fool noticed it first and made a jest about it, and Seemsto-Be laughed royally long
and loud, and all the Court laughed with him, for the fool, Thinks-He-Is, is a most famous
fool, the greatest that has ever been since the Father of Fools was born.

Next, the Lord Chief High Chamberlain noticed, and the Lord Chief High Chamberlain whispered
to Seemsto-Be a most portentous whisper. And the portentous whisper of the Lord Chief High
Chamberlain reached the ears of the Chief First Officer of State; then passed from Officer
of State to Officer of State until it reached the Chief Captain of the Guard, and soon the
soldiers of the royal army and even the royal servants of the palace were whispering, whispering,
whispering about the strange affair.

Then it was that Seemsto-Be sent throughout the kingdom, commanding in haste to the palace
the most expert workers in gems and the most cunning workers in gold to be found in the Land
of Allthetime.

It was true. The priceless jewels of the Magic Crown were losing their brilliancy. The precious
gold of the Crown was becoming dull. Nor could all the skill of the workers in gems, all the
craft of the workers in gold restore the beauty of the Crown or keep its fading splendor.

And so the whispers grew louder and louder until the people began to talk in low tones among
themselves, questioning, questioning one another of the meaning of this thing. And at last
the Royal Officers of State began to look with distrust and fear upon their ruler, who tried
so hard to wear bravely his crown of tarnished gold and lusterless gems; and the soldiers came
to look with doubt and fear upon the officers, who whispered so among themselves; and the people
looked with suspicion and fear upon them all.

Without understanding, filled with dread and apprehension, worn with wracking worry, poor Seemsto-Be
sought with honors, decorations, and distinguishing titles to hold the fast-failing confidence
of his court and army, and with holidays more frequent, festivals more gay, games more interesting,
and parades more gorgeous, tried to keep the waning loyalty of his people.

Now all this time, while the poor foolish pretender, Seemsto-Be, was losing his power even
as the beauty of the Magic Crown was fading, King Really-Is lived very quietly in his little
house under the walls of the abandoned temple, and never did he fail to make his daily offering
to his god, the god Things-That-Ought-To-Be. And always when his brother Seemsto-Be with the
fading Crown upon his head, passed in gorgeous procession of state, surrounded by his distrustful
officers, doubting soldiers and suspicious people, Really-Is smiled sadly and whispered to
himself: "Poor Seemsto-Be, poor foolish one!"

So it was, that in all the Royal City Daybyday, in the Land of Allthetime, peace and understanding
dwelt only in the heart of this King.

And the people more and more came to love Really-Is, even as they more and more turned from
Seemsto-Be, notwithstanding the holidays, feasts and parades. Little by little, they learned
to watch daily for their King, and with the children would run to greet him. More and more
the multitude pressed about Really-Is when he stood quietly in the street, watching Seemsto-Be
pass by in the splendid chariot of state. More and more the people went daily with Really-Is
to worship in the temple sacred to the god Things-That-Ought-To-Be.

So the time came at last when the Magic Crown, tarnished and dull, seemed but a mockery, fit
only for the rubbish heap; when the Officers of State spoke aloud their doubts and fears and
the soldiers were openly disobedient; when the people, as the pretender passed through the
city streets, no longer shouted aloud expressions of their loyalty, but, with dark looks of
doubt and anger, stood silent, or laughed in mocking glee.

And Seemsto-Be grew afraid.

Then in secret the false prince went alone to the house of his brother the King and prostrated
himself humbly.

"What is your wish, my brother?" asked Really-Is, kindly, "make known to me your request."

And Seemsto-Be taking heart at the gentleness of Really-Is answered: "This is my wish, O King--my
brother, this is my request; that you come to dwell with me in the royal palace, that you share
with me the throne. Twins we are, sons of our royal father, of the royal family Everyone. Therefore
let us rule together the Land of Allthetime."

Answered Really-Is. "By your coming to me, Seemsto-Be, I know that you, too, at last have learned
the Secret of the Magic of the Crown. What of the Crown, brother?"

And the pretender replied: "No one can tell us one from the other. You only shall wear the
Crown; then for us both will its glory come again and remain, then will all be well."

But King Really-Is answered sadly: "O my brother, that which you ask cannot be. In the Law
of the Ages it is written that a King of Allthetime cannot, if he would, share his throne and
power with one who is false, else would he himself be held unworthy I have seen your wretchedness,
my brother; I have seen and I have pitied."

Then Seemsto-Be went sadly out from the presence of his brother, the King, and the next morning
they found him dead on the steps of the temple sacred to the god Things-Are-Good-Enough.

And now with great tumult and shouting the people gathered to do homage to Really-Is. And never
was there seen in Daybyday such a multitude. From the uttermost parts of Allthetime they came,
for the word of his life had gone far, far abroad and all the world that is, gathered to do
him honor.

And it happened, when all was ready for Really-Is to ascend the throne, and the royal trumpeters
had lifted their trumpets ready to proclaim him King of Allthetime, with the vast multitude
breathless, ready at the signal of the trumpets to break forth in a great, glad shout, "Long
live the king," and the Lord Chief High Chamberlain turned to take the Magic Crown from the
hands of the High Priest of Things-That-Ought-To-Be, that even as he turned the Crown vanished,
and lo! there was in the hands of the priest, nothing.

In consternation the Lord Chief High Chamberlain whispered to the royal high officials about
him, asking what should be done. In consternation, the royal high officials whispered among
themselves. In consternation they whispered back to the Chamberlain.

And this was their whisper: "Ask the King."

Really-Is, when he was asked what should be done, answered with a smile: "The Crown is not
the kingdom, nor is one King because he wears a Crown."

