COLONIAL BORN

  COLONIAL BORN

  A TALE OF THE QUEENSLAND BUSH

  BY

  G. FIRTH SCOTT

  AUTHOR OF

  "THE TRACK OF MIDNIGHT," "THE ROMANCE OF AUSTRALIAN EXPLORING,"
  "AT FRIENDLY POINT," ETC.

  WITH SIX ILLUSTRATIONS BY PERCY F. S. SPENCE

  LONDON
  SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON AND COMPANY
  LIMITED

  TO

  THE ORIGINAL AILLEEN

  CONTENTS

  CHAPTER                                          PAGE

      I. THE ROMANCE OF TAYLOR'S FLAT                 1

     II. TWENTY YEARS AFTER                          16

    III. THE BELLE OF BIRRALONG                      30

     IV. THE ROUT OF BOULDER CREEK                   40

      V. THE SWAY OF GOLD                            59

     VI. THE LADY OF BARELLAN                        80

    VII. THE EVOLUTION OF SLAUGHTER                  93

   VIII. SKINNING THE WILD CAT                      110

     IX. CHORDS AND DISCORDS                        128

      X. THE RACE FOR GOLD                          146

     XI. BILLIARDS MADE EASY                        161

    XII. RIVAL ISSUES                               180

   XIII. TONY VISITS THE FLAT                       193

    XIV. THE FINDING OF PETERS'S REEF               204

     XV. BLACK AND WHITE                            219

    XVI. TWO SIDES OF A STORY                       233

   XVII. A BUSHMAN'S BANKER                         246

  XVIII. A TANGLED SKEIN                            260

    XIX. STRANDS IN THE COIL                        274

     XX. THE LAST LOOP                              293

  LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                     TO FACE PAGE

  THE HORSE AND ITS RIDER DASHED OUT OF THE
  SMOKE                                            Frontispiece

  "THANK YOU," SHE SAID                                        30

  "THEN ROLL THE SWAG AND BLANKET UP, AND LET
  US HASTE AWAY"                                               56

  "I AIN'T NO STRANGER, MISS"                                 100

  CAPERED ROUND THE BOULDER                                   216

  THROUGH THE BUSH IT WENT, RACING LIKE MAD                   268

COLONIAL BORN

CHAPTER I.

THE ROMANCE OF TAYLOR'S FLAT.

Where the road to the west from Birralong dips down to the valley of Boulder Creek, a selection
stretches out on the left-hand side, well cleared and fenced, and with the selector's homestead
standing back a couple of hundred yards from the main road. Slip-rails in the fence, serving
as a gateway, open on to the half-worn track which runs from the roadway to the house; and
on either side of it there are cultivation paddocks, the one verdant with lucerne, and the
other picturesque with the grey sheen of iron-bark pumpkins showing from among the broad leaves
of the still growing vines.

The house, unpretentious and substantial, has long since taken to itself the nondescript hue
to which the Australian sun soon reduces the unpainted surface of hard-wood slabs and shingles.
A square, heavy chimney, smoke-stained and clumsy at the base, rises above the sloping roof
at one end, and a roughly fashioned verandah runs along the front of the house, the opposite
end to where the chimney is situated being occupied by an odd collection of water-tanks. By
the side of the door, and under shelter of the verandah, a saddle is standing on end, while
a bridle hangs from a peg in the wall overhead. A heap of two-foot logs is near the water-tanks,
with a short-handled axe stuck in an upturned stump which does duty for a chopping-block.

Behind the house a few gum trees in the paddocks lead the eye to where the untouched bush grows
thick and sombre in the strength of crowded timber, the bleached trunks of the dead ring-barked
trees, where the sunlight plays upon them, gleaming white against the dark purple-blue of the
distant foliage. Towards the valley of the creek the land slopes away, and over the course
of the stream a faint, blue, vapoury haze hangs in the hot air, beyond which the high table-land
on the other side rises like a ridge, the deep tones of its shadows so strongly impressed against
the clear transparency of the sky that it seems to be wonderfully near, until the stretch of
vapoury haze below corrects the trick of vision. The roadway, as it passes the boundary fence
of the selection, gleams yellow under the strong glare of the sun, until, winding behind the
clustering trees and bushes, it disappears.

It is a scene fair to look upon, either to one in search of change and contrast, or to one
whose perceptions are softened by the glamour and charm of Australian association; but especially
to the man whose energy and toil made the bush yield at that one point to the needs of civilization.
He, stolid, hard-working bushman, with no ambition for anything beyond what he termed "bush
graft and square meals," leaned over his slip-rails and looked up and down the road, wondering
what else a man wants for contentment beyond work, food, and sleep.

For years he had been a lonely man, living by himself in solitary bachelor simplicity, but
withal contentedly, peacefully, happily. Fifteen miles down the creek there was a cattle station,
but none of the station hands ever came round by the selection; and Taylor was never disposed,
for the sake of a brief yarn, to ride the score of miles he would have to cover to get to the
men's huts. A dozen miles to the east, over a stretch of timbered table-land, the nucleus of
a bush township was struggling to assert itself, and thrive, in spite of the weighty handicap
of the name of Birralong, and the fact that, after five years' existence, it had not succeeded
in passing the preliminary stage of bush township life--the stage when a "pub," a store, a
constable's cottage, and a post-office make up the official directory, the constable combining
with his own the offices of postmaster, and another individual representing both the branches
of distributing industry, or, in bush parlance, "running both the shanty and the store." There
were other residents in the township besides these two; men who came along the road from the
east to the west, some with business and some in search for it; some with a record they wanted
to leave behind, and some with an empty past they hoped to turn into a well-filled future in
the mighty plains of the rolling lands of the virgin western country; men of all qualities
and shades of vice and virtue; stockmen, mailmen, and drovers; stray gold-seekers, fossickers,
or prospectors; swagsmen who were bonâ-fide bushmen, and swagsmen who, as sundowners, only
arrived at a station or a township too late in the day to be given work, but not too late to
participate in the open hospitality of the bush; shepherds, selectors seeking land, and timber-getters
moving on to the scrubs of the table-land beyond the creek; but men, always men, who brought
the population of the township up to tens, but never yet to hundreds, and who in a few days
had gone further west--mostly--and whose places were taken by others.

But to that township in the early days of its existence Taylor rarely went, for even amidst
a floating population there are floating jests, and the man at whose expense they are made
does not learn to appreciate them any the more by reason of new arrivals learning them and
keeping them alive. To the men of the township his selection, which he had proudly named Taylor's
Flat, was known as Taylor's Folly; and the owner of it, dull-witted and slow of speech, was
loth to face the raillery his presence always called forth.

Away to the south, forty miles from the Flat, was another township, whither Taylor, when he
first took up the land, was compelled to go to pay the instalments of the purchase money to
the local Government official. On the occasion of the visit when the last instalment was paid,
Taylor saw at the hotel, where he stayed the night, a fresh-faced immigrant girl. She had not
been long enough in the country to lose the fresh, ruddy hue from her plump cheeks, but long
enough to be wearied by the heat and the worry, of which, experience taught, the ideal life
she had dreamed about was really composed.

Perhaps it was the colour on her cheeks; perhaps it was the winsome look which came into her
eyes as he told her, in an unprecedented burst of confidence, of the quiet contentment of his
life on the selection; but until he returned to it, in all the natural pride of actual proprietorship,
Taylor was unaware that anything had occurred to interfere with the even tenor of his existence.
As it was, everything seemed to have suddenly lost its charm; the steadily increasing bulk
of the largest pumpkins no longer brought enthusiasm to him; the satisfaction of sitting, when
the sun was nearing the horizon, with his pipe between his lips, and his legs stretched out
in front of him, in well-earned rest, under the shelter of his verandah, was no longer manifest;
his own society and the companionship of his stock brought no comfort into his life, now strangely
restless and uneasy. It was not in the nature of the man to reason it out, but dimly into his
mind there came a connection between the state of affairs and his visit to the southern township.
There had been a light spring-cart in the place which had attracted his fancy and roused as
much covetousness as his nature was capable of feeling, and to that he attributed his dissatisfaction,
persuading himself that the possession of that spring-cart would bring back all the old lethargic
content of his life.

He returned to the township, and peace came to his mind as he sat at the long, bare table which
occupied the centre of the living-room of the hotel, munching the beef and damper the red-cheeked
girl brought to him. Vaguely the idea came to him that the presence of such a girl at his homestead
would be a decided improvement to the loneliness he had for the first time experienced on his
return from his former visit to the township, and with characteristic brevity he made the suggestion
to her that if she were in want of another place, he was prepared to offer her one at his selection,
where she would have no mistress but herself, and none to attend to but him. She jumped at
the chance of peace and quiet in the bush, and closed upon his offer there and then.

Two days later, Taylor, peaceful and contented, was returning to the selection, driving the
spring-cart which had roused his fancy, and in which there also travelled his wife--the red-cheeked
girl--and her few belongings.

For a time everything went well, and both yielded to the conviction that they had obtained
all that was necessary to insure their earthly happiness. Then the life began to pall.

She was the first to feel it. Brisk and energetic, she was through with her house-work before
the day was many hours old, and the time hung terribly on her hands, for the peace and calm
she had so longed for at the bush hotel began to grow very monotonous and trying.

Taylor had enough to keep him going all the day out on his land, but she had nothing when the
work round the house was done. He, moreover, had the chance of an occasional chat with a passing
traveller along the road; but she never saw a woman's face during her first year at the Flat,
and however much a woman may scorn the companionship of her sisters when she is surrounded
by them, she finds her days unduly long when she is cut off from their society altogether.

As the months passed on into the year, and his wife commenced to develop undreamed-of resources
of temper, Taylor began to wonder to himself whether he had not been "got at over the marriage
business."

At the end of the first year, on his visit to the southern township for his stores, he took
his wife with him in the spring-cart, and they spent a few days at the hotel where she had
previously been employed. It had changed hands in the mean time, and the newcomer had with
him a family of children. During the stay, and on the return journey, there was no sign of
the acrid temper his wife had displayed at the selection; but as soon as they were home again
it broke out. When he was in the house she railed at him, and if he stayed away among his fences
and his stock, she grumbled, as soon as he returned, at his absence.

He left the house before a furious outburst which he was quite unable to understand, and, passing
down the track to the slip-rails, leaned upon them in the hopes of solving the riddle. An old
sundowner, chancing to pass along the road, stopped in the hopes of a yarn. But Taylor was
in no mood to talk on any other subject than that which was worrying him. He accordingly poured
out his tale to the old man, who, having heard it, suggested that perhaps the cause of it all
lay in the worry and trouble of the children, or, as he termed them, kids. "There ain't no
kids," Taylor retorted in irritation; and the old man, looking at him quizzically, observed,
"Oh, there ain't no kids, ain't there? Well, then, there y'are."

This new factor in the problem worried Taylor still more when the old man, with an uncomplimentary
allusion to the sagacity of the owner of Taylor's Folly, continued his way. But time was kind,
and he grew more learned when premonitory symptoms of the approach of a light from another
world were manifest, and peace lay on his wife's tongue and sweetness ruled her temper.

Then there came the light which made the mother glad and the father bewildered, for, as he
explained to the neighbour who came from forty miles away to lend her aid, he knew "nothin'
about the rearin' of that sort of stock."

He left his fences alone that day and spent the hours hanging round the house, taking periodical
trips into the room where the mother and the child lay, and retiring with a serious shake of
the head and a muttered explanation of his want of knowledge on the subject. Then he was startled
by being suddenly called into the room, where he stood, strangely abashed and helpless, while
the light flickered and went back to its own world. The mother wailed and sorrowed, and Taylor
moped and wondered, until, between them, the neighbour was severely taxed to keep things going.

The next night he wandered away from the house to the little railed-in mound in a corner of
the paddock where he had put all that remained of the stock he did not know how to rear. He
stood with his arms resting on the slim fence and his eyes looking away into the evening's
mists, trying, with the aid of a pipe, to drive away the disquietening effect the expression
in his wife's eyes had upon him, and to understand something of the emptiness that had somehow
come into his life since he had lain, as tenderly as his rough hands could, the fragile little
form in its simple grave.

As he stood, as nearly dreaming as it was possible for him to be, he became conscious of the
figure of a man running hastily towards him from the direction of the roadway.

"Mate! For the love of God! Is there any women about?" the man exclaimed as he came near.

"Women?" Taylor repeated vacantly.

"Yes, women," the man replied. "My missus's been took bad down there by the dray, and if there
ain't----"

"Here! Come on!" Taylor shouted, his own recent experience sharpening his wits. "Follow me, quick."

A few seconds later and the neighbour was speeding away through the bush, and Taylor was sitting
by his wife's side, ill at ease and silent as he tried to decide whether it would do any harm
to any one if he re-lit the pipe he had allowed to go out in the excitement of the moment.
His wife, catching something of the message so hastily delivered, lay still with wide-open
eyes and straining ears.

"Bill! I 'eard it cry, I 'eard it cry," she exclaimed suddenly. "There 'tis again, only louder,"
she added, as she essayed to sit up in bed just as the neighbour hurried into the room.

"He said she'd gone, poor thing, before I got there; but we must try to save this," she said,
as she placed in the lonely mother's arms the tiny morsel of humanity.

"I will, I will," the other cried as she clutched at the babe, clasping it to her breast as
she rocked to and fro and crooned over it.

Taylor looked at her vaguely for a moment, and into his mind there stole a new and strange
impulse. The emptiness that had been manifest to him as he stood leaning over the slim rail
across the paddock seemed to fill up until his throat grew tight and his eyes moist, and for
the first time in his life he experienced a satisfaction that had to do with neither eating
nor working. He put one hand for a moment on his wife's shoulder, and with the extended forefinger
of the other touched the small chubby hand that lay against her breast. Withdrawing it, he
stood for a moment undecided whether to repeat the experiment, when the neighbour bustled up,
and Taylor shuffled out of the room and into the cool air of the night. There he remembered
the man who was in a worse plight than he had been, and he went to seek him.

He found him standing by a horse on the roadside, just beyond the boundary fence.

"You had better camp at the house for to-night," Taylor began, as he leaned over the fence
and strained his eyes in an endeavour to make out where the dray the man had mentioned was
standing.

"No; thanks all the same," the man answered. "I've fixed up everything, and can shove along."

"But there's the little 'un; and what about the--the other?" Taylor asked, as he put his foot
on one rail and made as though to climb over the fence.

The man came up to him from the shadow.

"I've fixed all that up. She'll come along with me, while I leave the little 'un here, if you
don't mind, till I've time to come back for it. This is Taylor's Flat, ain't it?"

"Yes," Taylor answered. "And I am Taylor."

"I guessed as much," the other replied; "they told me back along the road I should reach here
about dark."

"Which way did you come?" Taylor asked.

"West," the other answered briefly.

"Far back?" Taylor inquired, somewhat puzzled at the arrival of a woman from the lonely wilderness
of the west.

"Fairish," the other replied evasively; and Taylor grew suspicious.

"What were you doing, coming from the west with a woman like that in the dray?" he asked. "Seems
to me it's a bit queer."

"Does it, mate? Well, I'm sorry, but I can't help that. I've enough to do without going into
private matters. Do you mind keeping the youngster for a time? He wouldn't have much of a chance
if I take him with me."

Taylor's mind, never very active, reverted to the scene he had witnessed before he left his
wife and the orphan babe.

"You couldn't take him if you wanted to," he exclaimed. "My missus only lost hers yesterday,
and she'd never give this one up now."

"Then you've had a bit of bad luck yourself?" the stranger said quickly. "Well, you know what
it is, just as I do, and you'll know why I want to shove along. Good-bye, mate. You've done
a real kind act to me. And see, if I don't get back in time, call him Tony, will you?"

"Tony?" Taylor repeated.

"That's it; after me, that is. But I hope I'm back. Anyhow, so long," the man said, as he turned
away and proceeded to mount his horse.

"Here, hold on," Taylor exclaimed.

But the man did not seem to hear, and Taylor was halfway over the fence when the sound of a
woman's voice, calling him, came from the direction of the hut. He paused and listened. It
was the neighbour calling him.

The man had started his horse, and in a few minutes would be well on his way. He could soon
overtake the man now and learn something more definite as to the parentage of the child he
was practically adopting. He felt that more was due to him than the scant information that
had been supplied; that the man who had called for his help, and received it, ought to be more
explicit than he had been, and ought to show more confidence in him than to go off, as soon
as the child was disposed of, in silence and mystery.

"Here, hold on," he repeated, as he climbed over the fence; but as he reached the ground on
the other side he heard the cry repeated from the direction of the hut, and he paused, irresolute.

There might be a repetition of the scene that had occurred when he was called the previous
day; the life of this second little creature might be going out like that of the other, and
Taylor felt uneasy when he remembered the anguish in the mother's eyes and the wailing sorrow
of her voice. If he ran after the man he would escape all that, for it would be over by the
time that he returned; but even as the thought passed through his brain he resented it. Something
of the feeling he had experienced when he saw his wife clutch at the child came to him, and
without further heed for the stranger, he scrambled back over his fence and ran to the hut.

At the door he met the neighbour.

"She wouldn't rest till I called you," she said, jerking her head towards the interior. "Where's
the other chap?"

"He's gone on," Taylor answered, as he went into the room and over to the bed where his wife lay.

She looked at him with a soft smile on her face.

"Look at him, Bill," she said, as she lifted the rough coverlet sufficiently to show where
the little head was nestled on her arm. "He's come back to me from the other world."

       *       *       *       *       *

For days Taylor waited, expecting that the man would come back or send word; but as nothing
was seen or heard of him, he took counsel with his wife and the neighbour.

"Seems queer, that chap not doing anything," he said one evening, shortly before the neighbour
left for her own home. "How will we name him?" he went on, glancing over at the sleeping infant
his wife was holding in her arms. "He ain't ours really."

"He is ours. He is mine, mine," his wife answered quickly, as she held the baby tighter to
her, and looked at her husband with a savage jealousy in her eyes.

"But there was that chap----" Taylor began.

"I don't care. I won't give him up. He's mine," she interrupted. "No one's going to have him;
no one--never," she continued, as she rose to her feet and walked up and down the room, with
her face bent over the child she held so closely to her.

The neighbour caught Taylor's eye and signed him to be quiet.

"Of course no one will have him but you," she said quietly. "I'd like to see who'd take him
when Taylor's here. Why, he hasn't been round his boundary fences even, he's so took up with him."

Mrs. Taylor stopped in her walk, and turned to her husband with the jealous gleam still flickering
in her eyes.

"Would you give him up, Bill?" she asked.

"Not me," he answered.

"Then we'll talk about his name," she interposed, before he could say more. "He's going to
be called Richard Taylor."

"But that chap asked me--he said, 'Call him Tony, after me.' That's what he said, and I said----"

"I don't care what you said or what he said," she interrupted. "He should have stayed and looked
after him, and not sneaked off in the dark, if he wanted to name him. Mrs. Garry says so too;
don't you, Mrs. Garry?"

Mrs. Garry, directly appealed to, had to sustain the opinion she had already expressed in private.

"But I said I would," Taylor asserted. "I said I'd call him Tony."

"Well, call him Tony. Name him as Richard Taylor, and call him Tony for short," Mrs. Garry
suggested.

"Tony!" Mrs. Taylor exclaimed scornfully. "What sort of a name do you call that? Why, it's
only fit for a black-fellow."

"It'll do for short," Taylor said. "We'll name him Richard Taylor, and call him Tony for short."

CHAPTER II.

TWENTY YEARS AFTER.

Marmot's store stood at the end of Birralong, at the top of the township road, which was, in
reality, the main road, along the sides of which Birralong had sprung up. It stood on the summit
of a rise which sloped upwards through the town, so that it occupied a commanding position
such as became the local post-office--for Marmot had the distinction of being postmaster as
well as monopolist storekeeper of the district. One advantage of the site was that from the
verandah which graced the front of the building a view could be obtained from end to end of
the township to the east, and away along the road to the west--the road which went, viâ Taylor's
Flat, over Boulder Creek, away to the great expanse of the West.

The store was a long, weather-board structure of four walls, and a sloping roof of corrugated
iron, unadorned save by an array of cylindrical tanks--also of corrugated iron--at each corner,
for being on the top of a rise, there was no chance of possessing a well or a waterhole; and
upon the contents of the tanks, saved from the rain, the residents depended for their water
supply. The interior of the structure was as simple as the exterior. A passage-way ran down
the centre between two counters, which extended the entire length of the building, and upon
which Marmot displayed some of the varied assortment of articles he stocked for the benefit
of his customers. Their range being somewhat wide, the counters could not hold all the samples,
and upon shelves running along the walls behind the counters, upon the floor on the passage
in front of the counters, round the doorway and out on the verandah, as well as from the cross-beams
of the roof, other articles were displayed. A man might not be able to buy anything from a
tin-tack to a sheet anchor on demand, but Marmot was quite prepared to furnish him with tin
ware and lamp-glasses, saddlery or axe heads and handles, wool bales, sacking, pipes and tobacco,
wax vestas and dress materials, flannel, hardware and soft goods, canned provisions and patent
medicines, cotton for tents, boots, hats, flour, galvanized iron for roofs and water-tanks,
barbed wire, kerosene oil, "reach-me-downers" or ready-made tweed suits, moleskins and Crimean
shirts, sheath knives, cartridges and firearms, fire and life assurance proposals, postal notes,
postage stamps, and money orders, as well as a few other minor details which might from time
to time be called for. Behind the main building was another, which served as a store for the
produce obtained either by purchase or in payment for outstanding "tallies" of goods supplied,
a small annexe to the main building giving sleeping accommodation to Marmot, who, being a man
of frugal habits and simple mind, "ran the store on his own," as they said in Birralong. His
customers, as a general rule, were neither too proud nor too busy to mind lending him a hand
at making up their orders, for when a man went to the store at Birralong, he went in a spring-cart
or dray, if he were going to buy, and as often as not accompanied by any female attachment
he might have about his selection, so that he was never pushed for time.

