AMOS KILBRIGHT; HIS ADSCITITIOUS EXPERIENCES

With Other Stories

by

FRANK R. STOCKTON

1888

CONTENTS.

AMOS KILBRIGHT: HIS ADSCITITIOUS EXPERIENCES

THE REVERSIBLE LANDSCAPE

DUSKY PHILOSOPHY--IN TWO EXPOSITIONS:
  FIRST EXPOSITION: A STORY OF SEVEN DEVILS
  SECOND EXPOSITION: GRANDISON'S QUANDARY

PLAIN FISHING

AMOS KILBRIGHT: HIS ADSCITITIOUS EXPERIENCES.

[This story is told by Mr. Richard Colesworthy, an attorney-at-law, in a large town in one
of our Eastern States. The fact that Mr. Colesworthy is a practical man, and but little given,
outside of his profession, to speculative theorizing, adds a weight to his statements which
they might not otherwise possess.]

In the practice of my profession I am in the habit of meeting with all sorts and conditions
of men, women, and even children. But I do not know that I ever encountered anyone who excited
in me a greater interest than the man about whom I am going to tell you.

I was busily engaged one morning in my office, which is on the ground floor of my dwelling
and opens upon the street, when, after a preliminary knock, a young man entered and asked leave
to speak with me. He was tall and well made, plainly but decently dressed, and with a fresh,
healthy color on his smoothly shaven face. There was something in his air, a sort of respectful
awkwardness, which was not without a suggestion of good breeding, and in his countenance there
was an annoyed or troubled expression which did not sit well upon it. I asked him to take a
chair, and as he did so the thought came to me that I should like to be of service to him.
Of course I desire to aid and benefit all my clients, but there are some persons whose appearance
excites in one an instinctive sympathy, and toward whom there arise at first sight sentiments
of kindliness. The man had said almost nothing; it was simply his manner that had impressed
me. I mention these points because generally I do not take an interest in persons until I know
a good deal about them.

"What can I do for you?" I asked.

The man did not immediately answer, but began searching for something in one of the pockets
of his coat. The little awkwardness which I had first noticed, now became more apparent. He
appeared to be looking for his pockets rather than for what might be in one of them. He was
conscious of his ungainliness and reddened a little as he fumbled on the inside and outside
of his coat.

"I pray you pardon me," he said, "but I will bring before you instantly the matter of my business."

And so saying, he got his hand into a breast pocket and drew out a little packet. There was
a certain intonation of his voice which, at first made me think that he was not an American,
but in that intonation there was really nothing foreign. He was certainly a stranger, he might
be from the backwoods, and both his manner and speech appeared odd to me; but soon I had no
doubt about his being my countryman. In fact, there was something in his general appearance
which seemed to me to be distinctively American.

"I came to you, sir," he said, "to ask if you would have the goodness to purchase one or more
of these tickets?" And he held out to me a card entitling one person to admission to a séance
to be given by a party of spiritualists in one of the public buildings of the town.

A feeling of anger arose within me. I was chagrined to think that I had begun to interest myself
in a person who merely came to interrupt me in my business by trying to sell me tickets to
a spiritualistic exhibition. My instant impulse was to turn from the man and let him see that
I was offended by his intrusion, but my reason told me that he had done nothing that called
for resentment. If I had expected something more important from him, that was my affair. He
had not pretended to have any other business than that which brought him.

And, besides, he offered me something which in fact I wanted. I am a member of a society for
psychical research, which, about a year before, had been organized in our town. It is composed
almost exclusively of persons who are desirous of honestly investigating the facts, as well
as theories, connected with the spiritual phenomena, not only of our own day, but of all ages.
We had heard of the spiritualistic exhibitions which were to be given in our town, and I, with
a number of my fellow-members, had determined to attend them. If there was anything real or
tangible in the performances of these people we wanted to know it. Considering all this, it
would be foolish for me to be angry with a man who had brought me the very tickets I intended
to buy, and, instead of turning away from him, I took out my pocket-book.

"I will take one ticket for each of the three séances," I said. And I placed the money on the
table.

I should have been glad to buy two sets of tickets; one for my wife; but I knew this would
be useless. She did not belong to our society, and took no interest in its investigations.

"These things are all tricks and nonsense," she said. "I don't want to know anything about
them. And if they were true, I most certainly would not want to know anything about them."

So I contented myself with the tickets for my own use, and as the man slowly selected them
from his little package, I asked him if he had sold many of them.

"These you now buy are the first of which I have made disposal," he answered. "For two days
I have endeavored to sell them, but to no purpose. There are many people to whom I cannot bring
myself to speak upon the matter, and those I have asked care not for these things. I would
not have come to you, but having twice passed your open window, I liked your face and took
courage."

I smiled. So this man had been studying me before I began to study him; and this discovery
revived in me the desire that he had come on some more interesting business than that of selling
tickets; a thing he did so badly as to make me wonder why he had undertaken it.

"I imagine," said I, "that this sort of business is out of your line."

He looked at me a moment, and then with earnestness exclaimed: "Entirely! utterly! absolutely!
I am altogether unfitted for this calling, and it is an injustice to those who send me out
for me to longer continue in it. Some other person might sell their tickets; I cannot. And
yet," he said, with a sigh, "what is there that I may do?"

The idea that that strong, well-grown man should have any difficulty in finding something to
do surprised me. If he chose to go out and labor with his hands--and surely no man who was
willing to wander about selling tickets should object to that--there would be no difficulty
in his obtaining a livelihood in our town.

"If you want regular employment," I said, "I think you can easily find it."

"I want it," he answered, his face clouded by a troubled expression, "but I cannot take it."

"Cannot take it!" I exclaimed.

"No," he said, "I am not my own master. I am as much a slave as any negro hereabouts!"

I was rather surprised at this meaningless allusion, but contented myself with asking him what
he meant by not being his own master.

He looked on the floor and then he looked at me, with a steady, earnest gaze. "I should like
well to tell you my story," he said. "I have been ordered not to tell it, but I have resolved
that when I should meet a man to whom I should be moved to speak I would speak."

Now, I felt a very natural emotion of pride. My perception of objects of interest was a quick
and a correct one. "Speak on," I said, "I shall be very glad to hear what you have to say."

He looked toward the open door. I arose and closed it. When I had resumed my seat he drew his
chair closer to me, leaned toward me, and said:

"In the first place you should know that I am a materialized spirit."

I sat up, hard pressed against the back of my chair.

"Nay, start not," he said, "I am now as truly flesh and blood as you are; but a short three
weeks ago I was a spirit in the realms of endless space. I know," he continued, "that my history
is a sore thing to inflict upon any man, and there are few to whom I would have broached it,
but I will make it brief. Three weeks ago these spiritualists held privately in this town what
they call a séance, and at that time I was impelled, by a power I understood not, to appear
among them. After I had come it was supposed that a mistake had been made, and that I was not
the spirit wanted. In the temporary confusion occasioned by this supposition, and while the
attention of the exhibitors was otherwise occupied, I was left exposed to the influence of
the materializing agencies for a much longer time than had been intended; so long, indeed,
that instead of remaining in the misty, indistinct form in which spirits are presented by these
men to their patrons, I became as thoroughly embodied, as full of physical life and energy,
and as complete a mortal man as I was when I disappeared from this earth, one hundred and two
years ago."

"One hundred and two years!" I mechanically ejaculated. There was upon me the impulse to get
up and go where I could breathe the outer air; to find my wife and talk to her about marketing
or some household affair, to get away from this being--human or whatever he was--but this was
impossible. That interest which dawned upon me when I first perceived my visitor now held me
as if it had been a spell.

"Yes," he said, "I deceased in 1785, being then in my thirtieth year. I was a citizen of Bixbury,
on the Massachusetts coast, but I am not unconnected with this place. Old Mr. Scott, of your
town, is my grandson."

I am obliged to chronicle the fact that my present part in this conversation consisted entirely
of ejaculations. "Old Mr. Scott your grandson!" I said.

"Yes," he replied; "my daughter, who was but two years old when I left her, married Lemuel
Scott, of Bixbury, who moved to this town soon after old Mr. Scott was born. It was, indeed,
on account of this good old man that I became materialized. He was present at the private séance
of which I have spoken, and being asked if he would like to see a person from the other world,
he replied that he should be pleased to behold his grandfather. When the necessary influences
were set to work I appeared. The spiritualists, who, without much thought, had conceived the
idea that the grandfather of old Mr. Scott ought, in the ordinary nature of things, to be a
very venerable personage, were disappointed when they saw me, and concluded I was one who,
by some mistake, had been wrongfully summoned. They, therefore, set me aside, as it were, and
occupied themselves with other matters. Old Mr. Scott went away unsatisfied, and strengthened
in his disbelief in the powers of the spiritualists, while I, as I have before said, was left
unnoticed under the power of the materializing force, until I was made corporeal as I am now.
When the spiritualists discovered what had happened they were much disturbed, and immediately
set about to dematerialize me, for it is not their purpose or desire to cause departed spirits
to again become inhabitants of this world. But all their efforts were of no avail. I remained
as much a man as anyone of themselves. They found me in full health and vigor, for I had never
had a day's sickness in my life, having come to my death by drowning while foolishly swimming
too far from land in a strong ebb tide, and my body, being carried out to sea, was never recovered.
Being thus put to their wit's end, they determined to keep the matter privy, and to make the
best of it, and the first necessity was to provide me with clothing, for on my second entrance
into this world I was as totally without apparel as when I first came into it. They gave me
these garments of the ordinary fashion of the day, but to which I find myself much unaccustomed,
and enjoined upon me to keep silent in regard to what had happened; fearing, as I was made
aware by some unguarded words, that their efforts to dematerialize me might bring them into
trouble."

My professional instincts now came to the front. "That would be murder," I said, "and nothing
less."

"So I myself told them," he continued, "for I had come to the determination that I would choose
to finish out the life I had broken off so suddenly. But they paid little heed to my words
and continued their experiments. But, as I have told you, their efforts were without avail,
and they have ceased to make further trial of dematerialization. As, of course, it would be
impossible to keep a full-grown man for any considerable length of time secluded and unseen,
they judged it wise to permit me to appear as an ordinary human being; and having no other
use to which they could put me, they set me to selling tickets for them, and in this business
I have fared so badly that I shall restore to them these that are left, and counsel them to
seek another agent, I being of detriment to them rather than profit. What may then happen I
do not know, for, as I told you, I am not my own master."

"I do not understand you," I said. "If you have been, in this unparalleled manner, restored
to your physical existence, surely you are free to do as you please. What these spiritualists
have done for you was done by accident. They intended you no benefit, and they have no claim
upon you."

"That is true," he said, with a sigh, "but they have a hold upon me. It was but yesterday that
they informed me that, although, so far, they had failed to restore me to what they call my
normal spiritual existence, they had every reason to believe that they soon would be able to
do so. A psychic scientist of Germany has discovered a process of dematerialization, and they
have sent to him for his formula. This, in a short time, they expect to receive, and they assure
me that they will not hesitate to put it in force if I should cause them trouble. Now, sir,"
he continued, and as he spoke there was a moisture about his eyes, "I am very fond of life.
I have been restored to that mortality from which I was suddenly snatched by the cruel sea,
and I do not wish to lose it again until I have lived out my natural term of years. My family
is one of long life, and I feel that I have a right to fifty more years of existence, and this
strong desire for the natural remainder of my life is that which gives these men their power
over me. I was never a coward, but I cannot but fear those who may at any moment cause this
form, these limbs, my physical state and life, to vanish like a candle-flame blown out."

My sympathies were now strongly aroused in behalf of the subject of these most extraordinary
conditions. "That which you fear must not be allowed," I said. "No man has the right to take
away the life of another, no matter what plan or method he may use. I will see the spiritualists,
and make it plain to them that what they threaten they cannot be allowed to do."

The man arose. "Sir," he said, "I feel that I have truly found a friend. Whatever may happen
to me, I shall never forget your kindness to a very stranger." He held out his hand, and I
stood up by him and took it. It was as much a flesh and blood hand as my own.

"What is your name?" I asked. "You have not yet told me that."

"I am Amos Kilbright, of Bixbury," he answered.

"You have not revisited your native place?" I said.

"No," he replied, "I much desire to do so, but I have no money for a journey, even on foot,
and I doubt me much if those men would suffer me to go to Bixbury."

"And have you spoken to your grandson, old Mr. Scott?" I said. "It is but right that you should
make yourself known to him."

"So have I thought," he answered, "and I have felt an earnest drawing toward my daughter's
child. I have seen him thrice, but have not had the heart to speak to him and declare myself
the progenitor of that mother whose memory I know he cherishes."

"You shall make yourself known to him," I said. "I will prepare the way."

He shook me again by the hand and took his leave without a word. He was deeply affected.

I reseated myself by my table, one thought after another rushing through my mind. Had ever
man heard a story such as this! What were all the experiences of the members of the Society
for Psychical Research, their stories of apparitions, their instances of occult influences,
their best authenticated incidents of supernaturalism compared to this experience of mine!
Should I hasten and tell it all to my wife? I hesitated. If what I had heard should not be
true--and this, my first doubt or suspicion impressed upon me how impossible to me had been
doubt or suspicion during the presence of my visitor--it would be wrong to uselessly excite
her mind. On the other hand, if I had heard nothing but the truth, what would happen should
she sympathize as deeply with Amos Kilbright as I did, and then should that worthy man suddenly
become dematerialized, perhaps before her very eyes? No, I would not tell her--at least not
yet. But I must see the spiritualists. And that afternoon I went to them.

The leader and principal worker of the men who were about to give a series of spiritual manifestations
in our town was Mr. Corbridge, a man of middle-age with a large head and earnest visage. When
I spoke to him of Amos Kilbright he was very much annoyed.

"So he has been talking to you," he said, "and after all the warnings I gave him! Well, he
does that sort of thing at his own risk!"

"We all do things at our own risk," I said, "and he has as much right to choose his line of
conduct as anybody else."

"No, he hasn't," said Mr. Corbridge, "he belongs to us, and it is for us to choose his line
of conduct for him."

"That is nonsense," said I. "You have no more right over him than I have."

"Now then," said Mr. Corbridge, his eyes beginning to sparkle, "I may as well talk plainly
to you. My associates and myself have considered this matter very carefully. At first we thought
that if this fellow should tell his story we would simply pooh-pooh the whole of it, and let
people think he was a little touched in his mind, which would be so natural a conclusion that
everybody might be expected to come to it. But as we have determined to dematerialize him,
his disappearance would bring suspicion upon us, and we might get into trouble if he should
be considered a mere commonplace person. So we decided to speak out plainly, say what we had
done, and what we were going to do, and thus put ourselves at the head of the spirit operators
of the world. But we are not yet ready to do anything or to make our announcements, and if
he had held his tongue we might have given him a pretty long string."

"And do you mean," I said, "that you and your associates positively intend to dematerialize
Mr. Kilbright?"

"Certainly," he answered.

"Then, I declare such an act would be inhuman; a horrible crime."

"No," said Mr. Corbridge, "it would be neither. In the first place he isn't human. It is by
accident that he is what he is. But it was our affair entirely, and it was a most wonderfully
fortunate thing for us that it happened. At first it frightened us a little, but we have got
used to it now, and we see the great opportunities that this entirely unparalleled case will
give us. As he is, he is of no earthly good to anybody. You can't take a man out of the last
century and expect him to get on in any sort of business at the present day. He is too old-fashioned.
He doesn't know how we do things in the year eighteen eighty-seven. We put this subject to
work selling tickets just to keep him occupied; but he can't even do that. But, as a spirit
who can be materialized or dematerialized whenever we please, he will be of the greatest value
to us. When a spirit has been brought out as strongly as he has been it will be the easiest
thing in the world to do it again. Every time you bring one out the less trouble it is to make
it appear the next time you want it; and in this case the conditions are so favorable that
it will be absolute business suicide in us if we allow ourselves to lose the chance of working
it. So you see, sir, that we have marked out our course, and I assure you that we intend to
stick to it."

"And I assure you," said I, rising to go, "that I shall make it my business to interfere with
your wicked machinations."

Mr. Corbridge laughed. "You'll find," he said, "that we have turned this thing over pretty
carefully, and we are ready for whatever the courts may do. If we are charged with making away
with anybody, we can, if we like, make him appear, alive and well, before judge and jury. And
then what will there be to say against us? Besides, we are quite sure that no laws can be found
against bringing beings from the other world, or sending them back into it, provided it can
be proved by the subject's admission, or in any other manner, that he really died once in a
natural way. You cannot be tried for causing a man's death a second time."

I was not prepared to make any answer on this point, but I went away with a firm resolution
to protect Amos Kilbright in the full enjoyment of his reassumed physical existence, if the
power of law, or any other power, could do it.

The next morning Mr. Corbridge called on me at my office. "I shall be very sorry," he said,
"if any of my remarks of yesterday should cause unpleasant feelings between us. We are desirous
of being on good terms with everybody, especially with members of the Society for Psychical
Research. You ought to work with us."

"We do not work with you," I replied, "nor ever shall. Our object is to search earnestly and
honestly into the subject of spiritual manifestation, and not to make money out of unfortunate
subjects of experiment."

"You misunderstand us," said he, "but I am not going to argue the question. I wish to be on
good terms with you and to act fairly and plainly all around. We find that we cannot make use
of the dematerialization process as soon as we expected, for the German scientist who controls
it has declined to send us his formula, but has consented to come over and work it on this
subject himself. His engagements will not allow him to visit this country immediately, but
he is very enthusiastic about it, and he is bound to come before long. Now, as you seem to
be interested in this ex-Kilbright, we will make you an offer. We will give him into your charge
until we want him. He is of no use to us, as he can't tell us anything about spiritual matters,
his present memory beginning just where it broke off when he sank in the ocean in seventeen
eighty-five, but he might be very useful to a man who was inclined to study up old-time manners
and customs. And so, if it suits you, we will make him over to you, agreeing to give you three
days' notice before we take any measures to dematerialize him. We are not afraid of your getting
away with him, for our power over him will be all the same, no matter where he is."

"I will have no man made over to me," said I, "and Mr. Kilbright being his own master, can
do with himself what he pleases; but, as I said before, I shall protect him, and do everything
in my power to thwart your schemes against him. And you must remember he will have other friends
besides me. He has relatives in this town."

"None but old Mr. Scott, at least so far as I know," said Corbridge, "and he need not expect
any help from him, for that ancient personage is a most arrant disbeliever in spiritualism."

And with this remark he took his leave.

That very afternoon came to me Amos Kilbright, his face shining with pleasure. He greeted me
warmly, and thanked me for having so kindly offered to give him employment by which he might
live and feel under obligations to no man.

I had promised nothing of the kind, and my mind was filled with abhorrence of such men as Corbridge,
who would not only send a person into the other world simply to gratify a scientific curiosity
or for purposes of profit, but would rehabilitate a departed spirit with all his lost needs
and appetites, and then foist him upon a comparative stranger for care and sustenance. Such
conduct was not only mean, but criminal in its nature, and if there was no law against it,
one ought to be made.

Kilbright then proceeded to tell me how happy he had been when Corbridge informed him that
his dematerialization had been indefinitely postponed, and that I had consented to take him
into my service. "It is now plain to me," he said, "that they have no power to do this thing
and cannot obtain it from others. This discardment of me proves that they have abandoned their
hopes."

It was evident that Corbridge had said nothing of the expected coming of the German scientist,
and I would not be cruel enough to speak of it myself. Besides, I intended to have said scientist
arrested and put under bonds as soon as he set foot on our shores.

"I do not feel," continued Kilbright, "that I am beginning a new life, but that I am taking
up my old one at the point where I left it off."

"You cannot do that," I said. "Things have changed very much, and you will have to adapt yourself
to those changes. In many ways you must begin again."

"I know that," he said, "and with respect to much that I see about me, I am but a child. But
as I am truly a man, I shall begin to do a man's work, and what I know not of the things that
are about me, that will I learn as quickly as may be. It is my purpose, sir, to labor with
you in any manner which you may deem fit, and in which I may be found serviceable until I have
gained sufficient money to travel to Bixbury, and there endeavor to establish myself in some
worthy employment. I had at that place a small estate, but of that I shall take no heed. Without
doubt it has gone, rightly, to my heirs, and even if I could deprive them of it I would not."

"Have you living heirs besides your grandson here?" I asked.

"That I know not," he said; "but if there be such I greatly long to see them."

"And how about old Mr. Scott?" said I. "When shall we go to him and tell him who you are?"

"I greatly desire that that may be done soon," answered Kilbright, "but first I wish to establish
myself in some means of livelihood, so that he may not think that I come to him for maintenance."

Of course it was not possible for me to turn this man away and tell him I had nothing for him
to do, and therefore I must devise employment for him. I found that he wrote a fair hand, a
little stiff and labored, but legible and neat, and as I had a good deal of copying to do I
decided to set him to work upon this. I procured board and lodging for him in a house near
by, and a very happy being was Amos Kilbright.

As for me I felt that I was doing my duty, and a good work. But the responsibility was heavy,
and my road was not at all clear before me. My principal source of anxiety was in regard to
my wife. Should I tell her the truth about my new copyist, or not? In the course of a night
I resolved this question and determined to tell her everything. When the man was merely Mr.
Corbridge's subject the case was different; but to have daily in my office a clerk who had
been drowned one hundred and two years before, and not tell Mrs. Colesworthy of it would be
an injustice to her.

When I first made known to her the facts of the case my wife declared that she believed "Psychics"
had turned my brain; but when I offered to show her the very man who had been materialized,
she consented to go down and look at him. I informed Kilbright that my wife knew his story,
and we three had a long and very interesting conversation. After an hour's talk, during which
my wife asked a great many questions which I should never have thought of, we went upstairs
and left Kilbright to his work.

"His story is a most wonderful one," said Mrs. Colesworthy, "but I don't believe he is a materialized
spirit, because the thing is impossible. Still it will not do to make any mistakes, and we
must try all we can to help him in case he was drowned when he says he was, and that German
comes over to end his mortal career a second time. Science is getting to be such a wicked thing
that I am sure if he crosses the ocean on purpose to dematerialize Mr. Kilbright, he will try
to do it in some way or other, whether the poor man was ever a spirit before or not. One thing,
however, is certain, I want to be present when old Mr. Scott is told that that young man is
his grandfather."

Mr. Kilbright worked very assiduously, and soon proved himself of considerable use to me. When
he had lived in Bixbury he had been a surveyor and a farmer, and now when he finished his copying
duties for the day, or when I had no work of that kind ready for him, it delighted him much
to go into my garden and rake and hoe among the flowers and vegetables. I frequently walked
with him about the town, showing and explaining to him the great changes that had taken place
since the former times in which he had lived. But he was not impressed by these things as I
expected him to be.

"It seems to me," he said, "as though I were in a foreign country, and I look upon what lies
about me as if everything had always been as I see it. This town is so different from anything
I have ever known that I cannot imagine it has changed from a condition which was once familiar
to me. At Bixbury, however, I think the case will be otherwise. If there are changes there
I shall notice them. In a little place like that, however, I have hopes that the changes will
not be great."

He was very conservative, and I could see that in many cases he thought the old ways of doing
things much better than the new ones. He was, however, a polite and sensible man, and knew
better than to make criticisms to one who had befriended him; but in some cases he could not
conceal his disapprobation. He had seen a train of cars before I met him, and I was not able
to induce him to approach again a railroad track. Whatever other feelings he may have had at
first sight of a train in motion were entirely swallowed up in his abhorrence of this mode
of travelling.

"We must not be in a hurry," said my wife when we talked of these matters. "When he gets more
accustomed to these things he will be more surprised at them."

There were some changes, however, which truly did astonish him, and these were the alterations--in
his opinion entirely uncalled for and unwarrantable--which had been made in the spelling of
the words of our language since he had gone to school. No steam-engine, no application of electricity,
none of the modern inventions which I showed him, caused him the emotions of amazement which
were occasioned by the information that in this country "honor" was now spelled without a u.

