Mocha is generally considered to be the best type of coffee, with Java a close second. It is
the fashion at present to mix the two in proportions to suit, some taking two pans Java to
one of Mocha, others reversing these proportions. Either way is good, or the Mocha is quite
as good alone. But there is a better berry than either for the genuine coffee toper. This is
the small, dark green berry that comes to market under the generic name of Rio, that name covering
half a dozen grades of coffee raised in different provinces of Brazil, throughout a country
extending north and south for more than 1,200 miles. The berry alluded to is produced along
the range of high hills to the westward of Bahia and extending north toward the Parnahiba.
It has never arrested attention as a distinct grade of the article, but it contains more coffee
or caffein to the pound than any berry known to commerce. It is the smallest, heaviest and
darkest green of any coffee that comes to our market from Brazil and may be known by these
traits. I have tested it in the land where it is grown and also at home, for the past sixteen
years and I place it at the head of the list, with Mocha next. Either will make perfect coffee,
if treated as follows: of the berry, browned and ground, take six heaping tablespoonfuls and
add three pints of cold water; place the kettle over the fire and bring to a sharp boil; set
it a little aside where it will bubble and simmer until wanted, and just before pouring, drip
in a half gill of cold water to settle it. That is all there is to it. The quantity of berry
is about twice as much as usually given in recipes: but if you want coffee, you had better
add two spoonfuls than cut off one.

In 1867 and again in 1870, I bad occasion to visit the West India Islands and Brazil. In common
with most coffee topers, I had heard much of the super-excellence ascribed to "West India coffee"
and "Brazilian coffee." I concluded to investigate, I had rooms at the Hotel d'Europe, Para,
North Brazil. There were six of us, English and American boarders. Every morning, before we
were out of our hammocks, a barefooted, half naked Mina negress came around and served each
of us with a small cup of strong, black coffee and sugar ad libitum. There was not enough of
it for a drink; it was rather in the nature of a medicine, and so intended--"To kill the biscos,"
they said. The coffee was above criticism.

I went, in the dark of a tropical morning with Señor João, to the coffee factory where they
browned the berry and saw him buy a pound, smoking hot, for which he paid twenty-five cents,
or quite as much as it would cost in New York. In ten minutes the coffee was at the hotel and
ground. This is the way they brewed it: A round-bottomed kettle was sitting on the brick range,
with a half gallon of boiling water in it. Over the kettle a square piece of white flannel
was suspended, caught up at the corners like a dip net. In this the coffee was placed and a
small darky put in his time steadily with a soup ladle, dipping the boiling water from the
kettle and pouring it on the coffee. There was a constant stream percolating through coffee
and cloth, which, in the course of half an hour, became almost black, and clear as brandy.
This was "Brazilian coffee." As the cups used were very small, and as none but the Northerners
drank more than one cup, I found that the hotel did not use over two quarts of coffee each
morning. It struck me that a pound of fresh Rio coffee berry ought to make a half gallon of
rather powerful coffee.

On my arrival home--not having any small darky or any convenient arrangement for the dip net--I
had a sack made of light, white flannel, holding about one pint. In this I put one quarter
pound of freshly ground berry, with water enough for five large cups. It was boiled thoroughly
and proved just as good as the Brazilian article, but too strong for any of the family except
the writer. Those who have a fancy for clear, strong "Brazilian coffee," will see how easily
and simply it can be made.

But, on a heavy knapsack-and-rifle tramp among the mountains, or a lone canoe cruise in a strange
wilderness, I do not carry coffee. I prefer tea. Often, when too utterly tired and beaten for
further travel, I have tried coffee, whisky or brandy, and a long experience convinces me that
there is nothing so restful and refreshing to an exhausted man as a dish of strong, green tea.
To make it as it should be made, bring the water to a high boil and let it continue to boil
for a full minute. Set it off the fire and it will cease boiling; put in a handful of tea and
it will instantly boil up again; then set it near the fire, where it will simmer for a few
minutes, when it will be ready for use. Buy the best green tea you can find and use it freely
on a hard tramp. Black, or Oolong tea, is excellent in camp. It should be put in the pot with
cold water and brought to the boiling point.

Almost any man can cook potatoes, but few cook them well. Most people think them best boiled
in their jackets, and to cook them perfectly in this manner is so simple and easy, that the
wonder is how anyone can fail. A kettle of screeching hot water with a small handful of salt
in it, good potatoes of nearly equal size, washed clean and clipped at the ends, these are
the requisites. Put the potatoes in the boiling water, cover closely and keep the water at
high boiling pitch until you can thrust a sharp sliver through the largest potato. Then drain
off the water and set the kettle in a hot place with the lid partly off. Take them out only
as they are wanted; lukewarm potatoes are not good, They will be found about as good as potatoes
can be, when cooked in their jackets. But there is a better way, as thus: Select enough for
a mess of smooth, sound tubers; pare them carefully, taking off as little as possible, because
the best of the potato lies nearest the skin, and cook as above. When done, pour the water
off to the last drop; sprinkle a spoonful of salt and fine cracker crumbs over them; then shake,
roll and rattle them in the kettle until the outsides are white and floury. Keep them piping
hot until wanted, It is the way to have perfect boiled potatoes.

Many outers are fond of roast potatoes in camp; and they mostly spoil them in the roasting,
although there is no better place than the campfire in which to do it. To cook them aright,
scoop out a basin-like depression under the fore-stick, three or four inches deep and large
enough to hold the tubers when laid side by side; fill it with bright, hardwood coals and keep
up a strong heat for half an hour or more. Next, clean out the hollow, place the potatoes in
it and cover them with hot sand or ashes, topped with a heap of glowing coals, and keep up
all the heat you like. I will add that, in selecting a supply of potatoes for camp, only the
finest and smoothest should be taken.

A man may be a trout-crank, he may have been looking forward for ten weary months to the time
when he is to strike the much dreamed of mountain stream, where trout may be taken and eaten
without stint. Occasionally--not often--his dream is realized, For two or three days he revels
in fly-fishing and eating brook trout. Then his enthusiasm begins to subside. He talks less
of his favorite flies and hints that wading hour after hour in ice-water gives him cramps in
the calves of his legs. Also, he finds that brook trout, eaten for days in succession, pall
on the appetite. He hankers for the flesh-pots of the restaurant and his soul yearns for the
bean-pot of home.

Luckily, some one has brought a sack of white beans, and the expert-- there is always an expert
in camp--is deputed to cook them. He accepts the trust and proceeds to do it. He puts a quart
of dry beans and a liberal chunk of pork in a two-quart kettle, covers the mess with water
and brings it to a rapid boil. Presently the beans begin to swell and lift the lid of the kettle:
their conduct is simply demoniacal. They lift up the lid of the kettle, they tumble out over
the rim in a way to provoke a saint, and they have scarcely begun to cook. The expert is not
to be beaten. As they rise, he spoons them out and throws them away, until half of the best
beans being wasted, the rest settle to business. He fills the kettle with water and watches
it for an hour. When bean-skins and scum arise he uses the spoon; and when a ring of greasy
salt forms around the rim of the kettle, he carefully scrapes it off, but most of it drops
back into the pot, When the beans seem cooked to the point of disintegration, he lifts off
the kettle and announces dinner. It is not a success. The largest beans are granulated rather
than cooked, while the mealy portion of them has fallen to the bottom of the kettle and become
scorched thereon, and the smaller beans are too hard to be eatable. The liquid, that should
be palatable bean soup, is greasy salt water, and the pork is half raw. The party falls back,
hungry and disgusted. Even if the mess were well cooked, it is too salty for eating. And why
should this be so? Why should any sensible man spend years in acquiring an education that shall
fit him for the struggle of life, yet refuse to spend a single day in learning how to cook
the food that must sustain the life? It is one of the conundrums no one will ever find out.

There is no article of food more easily carried, and none that contains more nourishment to
the pound, than the bean. Limas are usually preferred, but the large white marrow is just as
good. It will pay to select them carefully. Keep an eye on grocery stocks and when you strike
a lot of extra large, clean beans, buy twice as many as you need for camp use. Spread them
on a table, a quart at a time and separate the largest and best from the others. Fully one-half
will go to the side of the largest and finest, and these may be put in a muslin bag and kept
till wanted. Select the expeditionary pork with equal care, buying nothing but thick, solid,
"clear," with a pink tinge. Reject that which is white and lardy. With such material, if you
cannot lay over Boston baked beans, you had better sweep the cook out of camp.

This is how to cook them: Put a pound or a little more of clean pork in the kettle, with water
enough to cover it. Let it boil slowly half an hour. In the meantime, wash and parboil one
pint of beans. Drain the water from the pork and place the beans around it; add two quarts
of water and hang the kettle where it will boil steadily, but not rapidly, for two hours. Pare
neatly and thinly five or six medium sized potatoes and allow them from thirty to forty minutes
(according to size and variety), in which to cook. They must be pressed down among the beans
so as to be entirely covered. If the beans be fresh and fine they will probably fall to pieces
before time is up. This, if they are not allowed to scorch, makes them all the better. If a
portion of pork be left over, it is excellent sliced very thin when cold and eaten with bread.
The above is a dinner for three or four hungry men.

It is usually the case that some of the party prefer baked beans. To have these in perfection,
add one gill of raw beans and a piece of pork three inches square to the foregoing proportions.
Boil as above, until the beans begin to crack open; then fork out the smaller piece of pork,
place it in the center of your largest cooking tin, take beans enough from the kettle to nearly
fill the tin, set it over a bright fire on the range, invert the second sized tin for a cover,
place live, hardwood coals on top and bake precisely as directed for bread--only, when the
coals on top become dull and black, brush them off, raise the cover and take a look. If the
beans are getting too dry, add three or four spoonfuls of liquor from the kettle, replace cover
and coals, and let them bake until they are of a rich light brown on top. Then serve. It is
a good dish. If Boston can beat it, I don't want to lay up anything for old age.

Brown bread and baked beans have a natural connection in the average American mind, and rightly.
They supplement each other, even as spring lamb and green peas with our transatlantic cousins.
But there is a better recipe for brown bread than is known to the dwellers of the Hub-- one
that has captured first prizes at country fairs and won the approval of epicures from Maine
to Minnesota; the one that brought honest old Greeley down, on his strictures anent "country
bread." And here is the recipe; take it for what it is worth and try it fairly before condemning
it. It is for home use: One quart of sweet milk, one quart of sour, two quarts of Indian meal
and one quart of flour and a cupful of dark, thin Porto Rico molasses. Use one teaspoon full
of soda only. Bake in a steady, moderate oven, for four hours. Knead thoroughly before baking.

Soup is, or should be, a leading food element in every woodland camp. I am sorry to say that
nothing is, as a rule, more badly botched, while nothing is more easily or simply cooked as
it should be. Soup requires time and a solid basis of the right material. Venison is the basis,
and the best material is the bloody part of the deer, where the bullet went through. We used
to throw this away; we have learned better. Cut about four pounds of the bloody meat into convenient
pieces and wipe them as clean as possible with leaves or a damp cloth, but don't wash them.
Put the meat into a five-quart kettle nearly filled with water and raise it to a lively boiling
pitch. Let it boil for two hours. Have ready a three-tined fork made from a branch of birch
or beech and with this, test the meat from time to time; when it parts readily from the bones,
slice in a large onion. Pare six large, smooth potatoes, cut five of them into quarters and
drop them into the kettle; scrape the sixth one into the soup for thickening. Season with salt
and white pepper to taste.

When, by skirmishing with the wooden fork, you can fish up bones with no meat on them, the
soup is cooked and the kettle may be set aside to cool. Any hungry sportsman can order the
next motion. Squirrels--red, black, gray or fox--make nearly as good a soup as venison, and
better stew. Hares, rabbits, grouse, quail, or any of the smaller game birds, may be used in
making soup; but all small game is better in a stew.

To make a stew, proceed for the first two hours precisely as directed for soup; then slice
in a couple of good-sized onions and six medium potatoes. When the meat begins to fall from
the bones, make a thickening by rubbing three tablespoonfuls of flour and two spoonfuls of
melted butter together; thin to the consistency of cream with liquor from the kettle and drip
slowly into the stew, stirring briskly meanwhile. Allow all soups and stews to boil two hours
before seasoning and use only the best table salt and white (or black) pepper. Season sparingly;
it is easier to put salt in than to get it out. Cayenne pepper adds zest to a soup or stew,
but, as some dislike it, let each man season his plate to his own cheek.

Fried squirrels are excellent for a change, but are mostly spoiled by poor cooks, who put tough
old he's and tender young squirrels together, treating all alike. To dress and cook them properly,
chop off heads, tails and feet with the hatchet; cut the skin on the back crosswise; and, inserting
the two middle fingers, pull the skin off in two parts, (head and tail). Clean and cut them
in halves, leaving two ribs on the hindquarters. Put hind and fore quarters into the kettle
and parboil until tender. This will take about twenty minutes for young ones and twice as long
for the old.

When a sharpened sliver will pass easily through the flesh, take the hindquarters from the
kettle, drain and place them in the frying pan with pork fat hissing hot. Fry to a light, rich
brown. It is the only proper way to cook squirrels. The forequarters are to be left in the
kettle for a stew.

It sometimes happens that pigeons are very plentiful and the camp is tempted into over-shooting
and over-cooking, until every one is thoroughly sick of pigeons. This is all wrong. No party
is, or can be, justified in wanton slaughter, just because birds happen to be plentiful; they
will soon be scarce enough. Pigeons are hardly game, and they are not a first-class bird; but
a good deal may be got out of them by the following method: Dress them, at the rate of two
birds to one man; save the giblets; place in the kettle and boil until the sliver will easily
pierce the breast; fork them out, cut the thick meat from each side of the breast bone, roll
slightly in flour and put the pieces in the pan, frying them in the same way as directed for
squirrels. Put the remainder of the birds in the kettle for a stew.

Quail are good cooked in the same manner, but are better roasted or broiled. To roast them,
parboil for fifteen minutes, and in the meantime cut a thin hardwood stick, eighteen inches
long for each bird. Sharpen the sticks neatly at both ends; impale the birds on one end and
thrust the sticks into the ground near the fire, leaning them so that the heat will strike
strongly and evenly. Hang a strip of pork between the legs of each bird and turn frequently
until they are a rich brown. When the sharpened sliver will pass easily through the breast
they are done.

Woodcock are to be plucked, but not drawn. Suspend the bird in a bright, clear heat, hang a
ribbon of fat pork between the legs and roast until well done; do not parboil him.

Ruffed grouse are excellent roasted in the same manner, but should first be parboiled. Mallards,
teal, butterballs, all edible ducks, are to be treated the same as grouse. If you are ever
lucky enough to feast on a canvas-back roasted as above, you will be apt to borrow a leaf from
Oliver Twist.

Venison steak should be pounded to tenderness, pressed and worked into shape with the hunting-knife
and broiled over a bed of clean hardwood coals. A three-pronged birch fork makes the best broiler.
For roast venison, the best portion is the forward part of the saddle. Trim off the flanky
parts and ends of the ribs; split the backbone lengthwise, that the inner surface may be well
exposed; hang it by a strong cord or bark string in a powerful, even heat; lay thin strips
of pork along the upper edge and turn from time to time until done. It had better be left a
little rare than overdone. Next to the saddle for roasting, comes the shoulder. Peel this smoothly
from the side, using the hunting knife; trim neatly and cut off the leg at the knee; gash the
thickest part of the flesh and press shreds of pork into the gashes, with two or three thin
slices skewered to the upper part. Treat it in the roasting as described above. It is not equal
to the saddle when warm, but sliced and eaten cold, is quite as good.

And do not despise the fretful porcupine; he is better than he looks. If you happen on a healthy
young specimen when you are needing meat, give him a show before condemning him. Shoot him
humanely in the head and dress him. It is easily done; there are no quills on the belly and
the skin peels as freely as a rabbit's. Take him to camp, parboil him for thirty minutes and
roast or broil him to a rich brown over a bed of glowing coals. He will need no pork to make
him juicy, and you will find him very like spring lamb, only better.

I do not accept the decision that ranks the little gray rabbit as a hare, simply because he
has a slit in his lip; at all events I shall call him a rabbit for convenience, to distinguish
him from his longlegged cousin, who turns white in winter, never takes to a hole and can keep
ahead of hounds nearly all day, affording a game, musical chase that is seldom out of hearing.
He never by any chance has an ounce of fat on him and is not very good eating. He can, however,
be worked into a good stew or a passable soup--provided he has not been feeding on laurel.
The rabbit is an animal of different habits and different attributes. When jumped from his
form, he is apt to "dig out" for a hole or the nearest stone heap. Sometimes an old one will
potter around a thicket, ahead of a slow dog, but his tendency is always to hole. But he affords
some sport, and as an article of food, beats the long-legged hare out of sight. He is excellent
in stews or soups, while the after half of him, flattened down with the hatchet, parboiled
and fried brown in butter or pork fat, is equal to spring chicken.

In the cooking of fish, as of flesh and fowl, the plainest and simplest methods are best; and
for anything under two pounds, it is not necessary to go beyond the frying pan. Trout of over
a pound should be split down the back, that they may lie well in the pan and cook evenly. Roll
well in meal, or a mixture of meal and flour, and fry to a rich brown in pork fat, piping hot.
Larger fish may just as well be fried, but are also adapted to other methods, and there are
people who like fish broiled and buttered, or boiled. To broil a fish, split him on the back
and broil him four minutes, flesh side down, turn and broil the other side an equal time. Butter
and season to taste. To broil, the fish should weigh three pounds or more. Clean and crimp
him by gashing the sides deeply with a sharp knife. Put him in a kettle of boiling water, strongly
salted and boil twenty-five minutes. For each additional pound above three, add five minutes.
For gravy, rub together two tablespoonfuls of flour and one of melted butter, add one heaping
teaspoon full of evaporated milk and thin with liquor from the kettle. When done, it should
have the consistency of cream. Take the fish from the kettle, drain, pour the gravy over it
and eat only with wheat bread or hardtack, with butter. The simplest is best, healthiest and
most appetizing.

As a rule, on a mountain in tramp or a canoe cruise, I do not tote canned goods. I carry my
duffle in a light, pliable knapsack, and there is an aggravating antagonism between the uncompromising
rims of a fruit-can and the knobs of my vertebrae, that twenty years of practice have utterly
failed to reconcile. And yet, I have found my account in a can of condensed milk, not for tea
or coffee, but on bread as a substitute for butter. And I have found a small can of Boston
baked beans a most helpful lunch, with a nine-mile carry ahead. It was not epicurean, but had
staying qualities.

I often have a call to pilot some muscular young friend into the deep forest and he usually
carries a large pack-basket, with a full supply of quart cans of salmon, tomatoes, peaches,
etc. As in duty bound, I admonish him kindly, but firmly, on the folly of loading his young
shoulders with such effeminate luxuries; often, I fear, hurting his young feelings by brusque
advice. But at night, when the campfire burns brightly and he begins to fish out his tins,
the heart of the Old Woodsman relents, and I make amends by allowing him to divide the groceries.

There is a method at cooking usually called "mudding up," which I have found to preserve the
flavor and juiciness of ducks, grouse, etc., better than any other method. I described the
method in Forest and Stream more than a year ago, but a brief repetition may not be out of
place here. Suppose the bird to be cooked is a mallard, or better still, a canvas-back. Cut
off the head and most part of the neck; cut off the pinions and pull out the tail feathers,
make a plastic cake of clay or tenacious earth an inch thick and large enough to envelop the
bird and cover him with it snugly. Dig an oval pit under the fore-stick, large enough to hold
him, and fill it with hot coals, keeping up a strong heat. Just before turning in for the night,
clean out the pit, put in the bird, cover with hot embers and coals, keeping up a brisk fire
over it all night. When taken out in the morning you will have an oval, oblong mass of baked
clay, with a well roasted bird inside. Let the mass cool until it can be handled, break off
the clay, and feathers and skin will come with it, leaving the bird clean and skinless. Season
it as you eat, with salt, pepper and a squeeze of lemon if you like, nothing else.

In selecting salt, choose that which has a gritty feel when rubbed between the thumb and finger,
and use white pepper rather than black, grinding the berry yourself. Procure a common tin pepper-box
and fill it with a mixture of fine salt and Cayenne pepper--ten spoonsfuls of the former and
one of the latter. Have it always where you can lay your hand on it; you will come to use it
daily in camp, and if you ever get lost, you will find it of value. Fish and game leave a flat,
flashy taste eaten without salt, and are also unwholesome.

Do not carry any of the one hundred and one condiments, sauces, garnishes, etc., laid down
in the books. Salt, pepper and lemons fill the bill in that line. Lobster-sauce, shrimp-sauce,
marjoram, celery, parsley, thyme, anchovies, etc., may be left at the hotels.

It may be expected that a pocket volume on woodcraft should contain a liberal chapter of instruction
on hunting. It would be quite useless. Hunters, like poets, are born, not made. The art cannot
be taught on paper. A few simple hints, however, may not be misplaced. To start aright, have
your clothes fitted for hunting. Select good cassimere of a sort of dull, no colored, neutral
tint, like a decayed stump; and have coat, pants and cap made of it. For foot-gear, two pairs
of heavy yarn socks, with rubber shoes or buckskin moccasins. In hunting, "silence is gold."
Go quietly, slowly and silently. Remember that the bright-eyed, sharp-eared woodfolk can see,
hear and smell, with a keenness that throws our dull faculties quite in the shade. As you go
lumbering and stick-breaking through the woods, you will never know how many of these quietly
leave your path to right and left, allowing you to pass, while they glide away, unseen, unknown.
It is easily seen that a sharp-sensed, light bodied denizen of the woods can detect the approach
of a heavy, bifurcated, booted animal, a long way ahead and avoid him accordingly.

But there is an art, little known and practiced, that invariably succeeds in out-thinking most
wild animals; an art, simple in conception and execution, but requiring patience: a species,
so to speak, of high art in forestry--the art of "sitting on a log." I could enlarge on this.
I might say that the only writer of any note who has mentioned this phase of woodcraft is Mr.
Charles D. Warner; and he only speaks of it in painting the character of that lazy old guide,
"Old Phelps."

