An amusing example of this occurred in the Montaña of Vitoc. An Indian one night heard his
only pig squeaking loudly, as if in pain. He hastened to the door of his hut to see what was
the matter, and he discovered that an ounce had seized the pig by the head, and was carrying
it off. The Cholo, who determined to make an effort to recover his property, seized the pig
by the hind legs, and endeavored to drag it from the grasp of the robber. This contest was
kept up for some time, the ounce, with his eyes glaring in the darkness, holding fast the head
of the pig, and the Indian pulling it hard by the legs. At length the Indian's wife came to
the door of the hut with a lighted fagot, and the scared ounce, with terrible howlings, slowly
retired to the forest. In general the Indians have a great dread of these animals, and seldom
venture singly into the parts they frequent. The ounce hunter is the only one who ventures
to approach them. He is armed with a long spear, with which he gives the ferocious animal a
death-blow. He lets the ounce come within a few paces of him without making the least show
either of flight or attack. If, however, the stroke he aims does not immediately reach the
seat of life, the hunter, in general, becomes the victim of his bold attempt. Before he can
stand on his defence, the wounded ounce drags him to the ground, and tears the flesh from his
bones.

Sometimes the villagers collect their dogs together for a general hunt. They drive the ounce
into a place from whence there is no escape, or often up a tree, where they shoot him with
long arrows sent from their bows or blow-tubes. In a few places snares are laid, or large holes
are dug, and a sharp-pointed stake is stuck in the middle, covered with stalks and branches
of trees, on which the bait is laid. The ounce is, however, too cunning to be easily caught
in traps, and it is only when pressed by hunger that he can be tempted by a bait. In some districts
the ounces have increased so greatly, and done so much damage, that the natives have been compelled
to remove and settle in other places. I need only refer to the Quebrada of Mayunmarca, in the
Montaña of Huanta, near the road to Anco. There once stood the little village of Mayumarca,
which has been abandoned for more than a hundred years, as it was found that the jaguars annually
decimated the inhabitants; this Quebrada is still in such bad repute that not a single Indian
will venture into it.

There is a black variety of the ounce, by many erroneously regarded as a distinct species.
It has the identical marks of the common jaguar, or ounce, only its color is a dark, blackish-brown,
whereby the whole of the black spots are rendered indistinct. On the lower banks of the Ucayali
and the Marañon this dark variety is more frequently met with than in the higher forests; in
the Montañas of Huanta and Urubamba it is also not uncommon. It is upon the whole larger, stronger,
and more daring than the lighter kind, and I have actually seen many black skins which exceeded
the usual length; but of specific distinctions there is no indication. The superstitious Indians
assign extraordinary powers to everything that departs from the common course; the black ounce
is, accordingly, supposed to possess singular properties. The yana chinca holds a prominent
place in the religious ceremonies of some of the Indian races.

Turning from these fierce natives of the forest, we will now take a glimpse at the peaceful
inhabitants of those umbrageous regions. In the hollow stems of trees, or among their canopied
branches, are found the timid marsupial animals (Did. impavida, and noctivaga, Tsch.). These
animals remain in obscure holes until the sun sinks beneath the horizon, when they slip out
in search of insects and fruit. Not unfrequently they penetrate into the slightly guarded Indian
huts, creeping into every corner, until at last they are caught in traps baited with pieces
of banana and pine-apple. The lofty Terebinthaceæ, with their walnut-like fruit, are inhabited
by swarms of squirrels, which strongly remind the European of his own woods. Numbers of the
mouse family, from the small tree-mouse (Drymomys parvulus, Tsch.) to the large, loathsome,
spinous rat (Echinomys leptosoma, Wagn.) swarm over all the Montañas, and love to approximate
to the dwellings of man. These animals destroy the gathered harvest, and even in these remote
regions they become a plague. It is a striking fact, that certain animals are almost inseparable
from man. They keep with him, or follow him wherever he settles. The mouse genus is one of
these. On the coast, mice are not the same as on the mountains, and in the forests they are
again different. Everywhere they leave their original dwelling-places, which they exchange
for an abode with man. As the mouse and the rat attack the gathered fruits of the earth, the
agouti preys on those yet standing in the field. These animals are seldom found in the depths
of the forest, but more frequently on its edge near the chacras of the Indians. Shortly before
sunset they leave the thickets, and stealthily repair to the maize, yucca, and anana fields,
where they scratch up the root and eat the grain and fruit; but the slightest noise drives
them back to their holes. In the deeper recesses of the forest resounds the monotonous, drawling
cry of the sloth. Here we have a symbol of life under the utmost degree of listlessness, and
of the greatest insensibility in a state of languid repose. This emblem of misery fixes itself
on an almost leafless bough, and there remains defenceless; a ready prey to any assailant.
Better defended is the scale-covered armadillo, with his coat of mail. Towards evening he burrows
deep holes in the earth, and searches for the larvæ of insects, or he ventures out of the forest,
and visits the yucca fields, where he digs up the well-flavored roots. The ant-eater rakes
up with his long curved claws the crowded resorts of ants, stretches out his long, spiral,
and adhesive tongue, into the midst of the moving swarm, and draws it back covered with a multitude
of crawling insects.

In the soft marshy grounds, or in the damp shady recesses of the forests, the heavy tapir reposes
during the heat of the day; but when the fresh coolness of evening sets in, he roves through
the forest, tears the tender twigs from the bushes, or seeks food in the grass-covered Pajonales.
Sometimes a multitude of tapirs sally from the forests into the cultivated fields, to the great
alarm of the Indians. A broad furrow marks the tract along which they have passed, and the
plants they encounter in their progress are trampled down or devoured. Such a visit is particularly
fatal to the coca fields; for the tapirs are extremely fond of the leaves of the low-growing
coca plant, and they often, in one night, destroy a coca field which has cost a poor Indian
the hard labor of a year.

Flocks of the umbilical hog, or peccary, traverse the level Montañas. If one of them is attacked
by the hunter, a whole troop falls furiously on him, and it is only by promptly climbing up
a tree that he can escape; then, whizzing and grunting, they surround the stem, and with their
snouts turn up the earth round the root, as if intending to pull down the tree and so get at
their enemy. The stag lurks in the thicket to withdraw from the eyes of the greedy ounce; but
towards evening he leaves his hiding place, and sometimes strays beyond the boundary of the
forest; he ventures into the maize fields of the plantations, where he tarries until night
is far advanced.

The same diversity of nature and habits is seen in the numerous hosts of birds that inhabit
the leafy canopies of the forest. On the loftiest trees, or on detached rocks, eagles, kites,
and falcons, build their eyries. The most formidable of these birds of prey, both for boldness
and strength, the Morphnus harpyia, Cab., darts down on the largest animals, and fears not
to encounter the fiercest inhabitants of the forest. The owl (Noctua, Scops, Strix), and the
goat-milker (Caprimulgus, Hydropsalis, Chordiles), fly with softly flapping wings to their
hunting quarters to surprise their victims while asleep. In the hilly parts of the Montañas
the black ox-bird (Cephalopterus ornatus, Geoff.), the Toropishu of the Indians, fills the
forest with his distant bellow, similar to the roaring of a bull. The Tunqui[82] inhabits the
same district. This bird is of the size of a cock; the body is bright red, but the wings are
black. The head is surmounted by a tuft of red feathers, beneath which the orange bill projects
with a slight curve. It lives sociably with other birds in thickets, or among Cinchona trees,
the fruit of which is part of its food. Its harsh cry resembles the grunt of the hog, and forms
a striking contrast to its beautiful plumage. Numberless fly-catchers and shrikes (Muscicapidæ
and Laniadæ) hover on tree and bush, watching for the passing insects, which they snatch up
with extraordinary dexterity. Finches twitter on the summits of the loftiest trees beyond the
reach of the hunter's shot: they are distinguished, like the Ampelidæ, who, however, live amongst
the lower bushes, by the lively and almost dazzling colors of their feathers. In modest plumage
of cinnamon-brown, with head and neck of dark olive, the Organista[83] raises, in the most
woody parts of the forest, her enchanting song, which is usually the prognostic of an approaching
storm. The tender, melancholy strains and the singular clearness of the innumerable modulations
charm the ear of the astonished traveller, who, as if arrested by an invisible power, stops
to listen to the syren, unmindful of the danger of the threatening storm. On old decayed stumps
of trees the busy creeper[84] and the variegated woodpecker are seen pecking the insects from
under the loose bark, or by their tapping bring them out of their concealed crevices; while
the red-tailed potter-bird (Opetiorynchus ruficandus, Pr. Max.) builds his dwelling of potter's
clay, or loam, as firmly as if it were destined to last for ever. The pouched starlings[85]
hang their nests, often four or five feet long, on the slender branches of trees, where they
swing to and fro with the slightest breath of wind. Like a dazzling flash of colored light
the colibri (humming-bird) appears and disappears. No combination of gorgeous coloring can
exceed that which is presented in the plumage of the golden-tailed humming or fly-bird (Trochilus
chrysurus, Cuv.) which haunts the warm primeval forests, but it is still more frequently found
in the pure atmosphere of the ceja-girded Montañas. The silky cuckoo (Trogon heliothrix, Tsch.)
retires into the thickest masses of foliage, from which its soft rose-colored plumage peeps
out like a flower. The cry of the voracious chuquimbis[86] accompanies the traveller from his
first steps in the Montañas to his entrance into the primeval forests, where he finds their
relative, Dios te de.[87] This bird accompanies its significant cry by throwing back its head
and making a kind of rocking movement of its body. The Indians, who are always disposed to
connect superstitious ideas with the natural objects they see around them, believe that some
great misfortune will befall any one who may shoot this bird, because it utters the sacred
word, Dios. Long trains of green parrots fill the air with their noisy chattering. One kind
of these birds (Ps. mercenarius, Tsch.) is remarkable for regular migrations. Every morning
they sally forth in flocks from the upper to the lower forests, where they pass the day, and
they regularly return before sunset to their roosting-places. From year to year these parrots
leave their night quarters daily at the same hour, and return with equal punctuality before
sunset. This regularity of departing and returning has caused the natives to give them the
name of Jornaleros (day-laborers). From the depth of the forests sounds often arise which resemble
human voices, and the astonished hunter then believes that he is in the vicinity of his companions,
or, perhaps, of hostile Indians. He eagerly listens, and it is only when well acquainted with
the sounds of the winged inhabitants of the woods that he can recognise the melancholy tones
of the wood-pigeons (C. infuscata, Licht.; C. melancholica, Tsch.). When day begins to depart,
groups of the pheasant-like Hachahuallpa[88] assemble, and with the cry of Ven acá, Ven acá,[89]
summon their distant companions.

Not only are the trees of the forests peopled with myriads of birds, but the earth has also
its feathered inhabitants, who seldom soar above the level of the soil. They build their nests
among the roots and fallen branches, and depend for movement more on their feet than on their
wings. Among those members of the winged tribe, who show no disposition to soar into the regions
of air, we find here the turcassa, a pigeon with richly-shaded plumage; the beautifully speckled
toothed fowl (Odontophorus speciosus, Tsch.), and short-tailed grass fowl, or crake,[90] whose
flesh when cooked is delicately white and finely flavored. In marshy places and on the slimy
banks of rivers, the jabiru (Mycteria americana, L.) loves to wade, together with the rose-colored
spoon-bill (Platalea ajaja, L.); the fish-devouring ibis (Tantalus loculator, L.), the curved-billed
snipe (Rhynchoea Hilærea, Val.), the party-colored cranes, plovers, land-rails, shrites, and
even sea-swallows.[91] In the rivers there are ducks: these birds are, perhaps, carried down
by the currents from the Andes, or, possibly, they fly in great trains from the inner waters
of Brazil.

Of the amphibia in the principal forests of Peru, only the great fresh-water tortoise (Hydraspis
expansa, Fitz.) is useful to the natives. On the sandy banks of rivers this animal buries its
eggs, from which the Indians extract oil: its flesh, also, supplies well-flavored food. All
other animals of this class are objects of terror, or at least of aversion, to the Indians.
In the warm sand of the river banks, lies the lazy caiman.[92] He keeps his jaws wide open,
only closing them to swallow the innumerable flies which he catches on his tongue. To the helplessness
of these animals when on land, the natives have to be thankful that they are not the most dangerous
scourges of the forest: in water, their boldness and swiftness of motion are fearful. The number
of lizards here is not great, nor do they attain so considerable a size as in other equatorial
regions. The serpents are to be feared, and on approaching them, it is not easy to decide at
the first view whether they belong to a poisonous or innoxious species. In the forests, where
the fallen leaves lie in thick, moist layers, the foot of the hunter sinks deep at every step.
Multitudes of venomous amphibia are hatched in the half-putrescent vegetable matter, and he
who inadvertently steps on one of these animals may consider himself uncommonly fortunate if
he can effect his retreat without being wounded. But it is not merely in these places, which
seem assigned by nature for their abode, that loathsome reptiles are found: they creep between
the roots of large trees, under the thickly interwoven brushwood, on the open grass plots,
and in the maize and sugar-cane fields of the Indians: nay, they crawl even into their huts,
and most fortunate is it for the inhabitants of those districts that the number of the venomous,
compared with the innoxious reptiles, is comparatively small. Of the poisonous serpents, only
a few kinds are known whose bite is attended with very dangerous consequences. The Miuamaru,
or Jergon (Lachesis picta, Tsch.), is, at most, three feet long, with a broad, heart-shaped
head, and a thick upper lip. It haunts the higher forests, while in those lower down his place
is filled by his no less fearful relative Flammon (Lachesis rhombeata, Prince Max.), which
is six or seven feet in length. These serpents are usually seen coiled almost in a circle,
the head thrust forward, and the fierce, treacherous-looking eyes glaring around, watching
for prey, upon which they pounce with the swiftness of an arrow; then, coiling themselves up
again, they look tranquilly on the death-struggle of the victim. It would appear that these
amphibia have a perfect consciousness of the dreadful effect of their poisonous weapon, for
they use it when they are neither attacked nor threatened, and they wound not merely animals
fit for their food, but all that come within their reach. More formidable than the two snakes
just described, but happily much less common, is the brown, ten-inch long viper.[93] It is
brown, with two rows of black circular spots. The effect of its bite is so rapid, that it kills
a strong man in two or three minutes. So convinced are the natives of its inevitably fatal
result, that they never seek any remedy; but immediately on receiving the wound, lay themselves
down to die. In the Montañas of Pangoa this viper abounds more than in any other district,
and never without apprehension do the Cholos undertake their annual journey for the coca harvest,
as they fear to fall victims to the bite of this viper. The warning sound of the rattlesnake
is seldom heard in the hot Montañas, and never in the higher regions.

Nature, who in almost all things has established an equilibrium, supplies the natives with
remedies against the bite of the serpent. One of the cures most generally resorted to is the
root of the amarucachu (Polianthes tuberosa, L.), cut into slips and laid upon the wound. Another
is the juice of the creeping plant called vejuco de huaco (Mikania Huaco, Kth.), which is already
very widely celebrated. This latter remedy was discovered by the negroes of the equatorial
province, Choco. They remarked that a sparrow-hawk, called the huaco, picked up snakes for
its principal food, and when bitten by one it flew to the vejuco and ate some of the leaves.
At length the Indians thought of making the experiment on themselves, and when bitten by serpents
they drank the expressed juice of the leaves of the vejuco, and constantly found that the wound
was thereby rendered harmless. The use of this excellent plant soon became general; and in
some places the belief of the preservative power of the vejuco juice was carried so far that
men in good health were inoculated with it. In this process some spoonfuls of the expressed
fluid are drunk, and afterwards some drops are put into incisions made in the hands, feet,
and breast. The fluid is rubbed into the wounds by fresh vejuco leaves. After this operation,
according to the testimony of persons worthy of credit, the bite of the poisonous snake fails
for a long time to have any evil effect. Besides the two plants mentioned above, many others
are used with more or less favorable results. The inhabitants of the Montaña also resort to
other means, which are too absurd to be detailed here; yet their medicines are often of benefit,
for their operation is violently reactive. They usually produce the effect of repeated emetics,
and cause great perspiration. There is much difference in the modes of external treatment of
the wound, and burning is often employed. I saw an Indian apply to his wife's foot, which had
been bitten, a plaster, consisting of moist gunpowder, pulverised sulphur, and finely-chopped
tobacco, mixed up together. He laid this over the wounded part and set fire to it. This application,
in connexion with one of the nausea-exciting remedies taken inwardly, had a successful result.

Innoxious snakes[94] wind on tendrilled climbing plants, or lie like necklaces of coral on
the brown decayed leaves (Elap. affinis, Fitz.). Where the branches of rivers enter the gloomy
forests and form little narrow lagunes, over which the high trees spread in vaulted cupolas
almost impervious to the light of day, there dwells the powerful giant snake (Eunectes murinus,
Wagl.), called by the Indians, in their figurative language, yacumaman, "mother of the waters."
Stretched in listless repose, or winding round the stem of an old tree, bathing her tail in
the cool lagune, she watches wistfully for the animals of the forest who come to the waters
to quench their thirst. Whilst she gazes at her distant prey, the fascinating power of her
eyes seems to subdue the trembling victim, and, unable even to attempt escape, he falls an
easy sacrifice.

The amphibia of the frog species, which lie concealed in silent repose during the day, raise,
after sunset, their far-sounding voices. The violet colored throat-bladder (Cystignathus silvestris,
Tsch.) maintains his loud, uniform croak beneath the bushes, or penetrates into the huts of
the inhabitants. The trapichero, or sugar-mill frog, is a large species, almost half a foot
in length. Its croak resembles very much the grating sound caused by the working of a sugar
mill, for which reason the natives have given it the name of trapichero, or the sugar-miller.
The croaking of these frogs, whose manifold tones blend together in confused union, augments
not a little the distressing dreariness of a forest night.

Of the numerous species of insects which swarm in these regions, few are remarkable for beauty;
but many fix attention by their peculiar habits. The bites and stings of numbers of them are
very dangerous, and it requires much caution to guard against their attacks.

Variegated butterflies flutter noiselessly among the spreading branches of the trees, or sun
themselves on the warm masses of fallen leaves. The most remarkable of these butterflies is
the large atlas, whose brilliant blue tints shine out with lustrous radiance in the dim light
of the forest. Along the banks of rivers, and especially in hot marshy spots, small musquitoes
swarm. The bite of this animal produces an intolerable burning sensation, and often causes
considerable inflammation. But more troublesome, and also much more numerous, are the stinging-flies
(sancudos). On my first arrival in the Montaña, I lay several days exceedingly ill in consequence
of severe swelling of the head and limbs, caused by the bites of these insects. To the inhabitant
of the forest the sancudos are an incessant torment. In no season of the year, in no hour of
the day or night, is there any respite from their attacks. Rubbing the body with unctuous substances,
together with the caustic juices of certain plants, and at night enclosing one's self in a
tent made of tucuyo (cotton cloth), or palm-tree bast, are the only means of protection against
their painful stings. The clothes commonly worn are not sufficient, for they are perforated
by the long sting of the larger species, particularly of the much-dreaded huir-pasimi-sancudo
(Lip-gnat). Regularly every evening at twilight fresh swarms of these mischievous insects make
their appearance.

The ticks (ixodes) are a class of insects destined by nature for the suction of plants; but
they often forsake trees, shrubs, and grasses, to fasten on man and other animals. With their
long sharp stings they make punctures, in which they insert their heads, and thereby occasion
very painful sores. These insects appear to have no preference for any particular class of
animals. They are often found on the hair of dead mammalia, and among the feathers of birds
which have been shot; even the toad, the frog, and the scaly lizard are not spared by them.
Much more troublesome than these insects are the antanas, which are not visible to the naked
eye. They penetrate the surface of the skin, and introduce themselves beneath it, where they
propagate with incredible rapidity; and when some thousands of them are collected together,
a blackish spot appears, which quickly spreads. If these insects are not destroyed when they
first introduce themselves into the punctures, they multiply with incalculable rapidity, destroying
the skin, and all the tender parts in contact with it. Washing with brandy, which is often
found to be a remedy against the less mischievous isancos, is not sufficient for the removal
of the antanas. For their extirpation the only effectual remedy is frequently bathing the part
affected with a mixture of spirits of wine and corrosive sublimate.

Who can describe the countless myriads of ants which swarm through the forests? Every shrub
is full of creeping life, and the decayed vegetation affords harbor for some peculiar kinds
of these insects. The large yellow puca-çiçi is seen in multitudes in the open air, and it
even penetrates into the dwellings. This insect does not bite, but its crawling creates great
irritation to the skin. The small black yana-çiçi, on the contrary, inflicts most painful punctures.
A very mischievous species of stinging ant is the black sunchiron. This insect inflicts a puncture
with a long sting, which he carries in the rear of his body. The wound is exceedingly painful,
and is sometimes attended by dangerous consequences. My travelling companion, C. Klee, being
stung by one of these ants, suffered such severe pain and fever, that he was for a short while
delirious. A few nights afterwards, a similar attack was made on myself during sleep. It suddenly
awoke me, and caused me to start up with a convulsive spring. I must confess that I never,
in my whole life, experienced such severe pain as I did at that moment.

A most remarkable phenomenon is exhibited by the swarms of the species called the ñaui-huacan-çiçi,[95]
the great wandering ant. They appear suddenly in trains of countless myriads, and proceed forward
in a straight direction, without stopping. The small, the weak, and the neuters are placed
in the centre, while the large and the strong flank the army, and look out for prey. These
swarms, called by the natives Chacus, sometimes enter a hut and clear it of all insects, amphibia,
and other disagreeable guests. This work being accomplished, they again form themselves into
a long train, and move onwards. The united force of these small creatures is vast, and there
is no approach to the fabulous, when it is related that not only snakes, but also large mammalia,
such as agoutis, armadillas, &c., on being surprised by them, are soon killed. On the light
dry parts of the higher Montañas we find the large conical dwellings of the termes so firmly
built, that they are impenetrable even to rifle shot. They sometimes stand singly, sometimes
together, in long lines. In form they strongly resemble the simple, conical Puna huts.

