About a week after the visit of the pedlar to the house, Lucretia having occasion to go down
into the cellar, stumbled and fell into a hole filled with soft soil, this somewhat frightened
her and caused her to scream for assistance. Mrs. Bell coming to her rescue, Lucretia asked
what Mr. Bell had been doing in the cellar that it was all "dug up." Mrs. Bell replied that
"the holes were only rat holes," and a few nights afterwards Lucretia observed that Mr. Bell
was busy for some time in the cellar filling up the "rat holes" with earth which he carried
there himself.

During the remainder of the period in which the house was occupied by the Bell family, the
sounds continued to be heard, not only by Lucretia but by Mrs. Bell. Lucretia's mother, Mrs.
Pulver, was a frequent visitor at the house, and on one occasion in particular, after the foregoing
events, when she called upon Mrs. Bell, she found the latter quite ill from want of rest, and
on enquiring the cause, Mrs. Bell declared she was "sick of her life," and that she frequently
"heard the footsteps of a man traversing the house all night."

CHAPTER II.

A few months after these events happened the Bells left the neighbourhood, and the house became
tenanted by a Mr. and Mrs. Weekman, who lived there about eighteen months, and left in the
year 1847. Mr. Weekman's statement respecting the noises he heard was to the effect that one
evening when he was about to retire for the night, he heard a rapping on the outside door,
and, what was rather unusual for him, instead of familiarly bidding them "come in," stepped
to the door and opened it. He had no doubt of finding some one who wished to come in, but to
his surprise found no one there. He stepped out and looked around, supposing that some person
was imposing on him, he could discover no one, and went back into the house. After a short
time he heard the rapping again, and stepped up and held on to the latch, so that he might
ascertain if any one had taken that means to annoy him. The rapping was repeated, the door
opened instantly, but no one was in sight. Mr. Weekman states that he could feel the jar of
the door very plainly when the rapping was heard. As he opened the door he sprang out and went
around the house, but no one was in sight, nor could he find trace of any intruder.

They were frequently afterwards disturbed by strange and unaccountable noises. One night Mrs.
Weekman heard what she deemed to be the footsteps of someone walking in the cellar. Another
night Mr. Weekman and his wife were disturbed by hearing a scream from their child, a girl
about eight years of age,--this happened at midnight,--they went to her and she told them that
something like a hand passed over her face and head; it seemed cold, and so badly had she been
frightened that it was some time before she could be induced to tell her parents the cause
of her alarm, nor would she consent to sleep in the same room for several nights afterwards.

All this might have happened, and been only the idle fabric of a child's dream, the Weekman
family might have imagined what they gave out as fact, and we should be inclined to believe
that such was the case, if we had not the most conclusive evidence that such manifestations
were quite common, not only in this house, but in various others where similarly strange things
have happened.

CHAPTER III.

From the time the Fox family entered the house at Hydesville, about December, 1847, they were
incessantly disturbed by similar noises to those heard by Lucretia Pulver and the Weekmans.
During the next month however (January, 1848) the noises began to assume the character of slight
knockings heard at night in the bedroom; sometimes appearing to sound from the cellar beneath.
At first Mrs. Fox sought to persuade herself this might be the hammering of a shoemaker in
a house hard by, sitting up late at work. But further observation showed that the sounds originated
in the house. For not only did the knockings become more distinct, and not only were they heard
first in one part of the house, then in another, but the family remarked that these raps, even
when not very loud, often caused a motion, tremulous rather than a sudden jar, of the bedsteads
and chairs--sometimes of the floor; a motion which was quite perceptible to the touch when
a hand was laid on the chairs, which was sometimes sensibly felt at night in the slightly oscillating
motion of the bed, and which was occasionally perceived as a sort of vibration even when standing
on the floor. After a time also, the noises varied in their character, sounding occasionally
like distinct footfalls in the different rooms.

In the month of February, the noises became so distinct and continuous that their rest was
broken night after night, and they were all becoming worn out in their efforts to discover
the cause of the annoyances. These disturbances were not confined to sounds merely,--once something
heavy, as if a dog, seemed to lie on the feet of the children; but it was gone before the mother
could come to their aid. Another time (this was late in March) Kate felt as if a cold hand
was on her face. Occasionally too, the bedclothes were pulled during the night. Finally chairs
were moved from their places. The disturbances, which had been limited to occasional knockings
throughout February and March, gradually increased towards the close of the latter month, both
in loudness and frequency. Mr. Fox and his wife got up night after night, lit a candle, and
thoroughly searched every nook and corner of the house; but without any result. They discovered
nothing. When the raps came on a door, Mr. Fox would stand, ready to open the door the instant
the raps were repeated. Though he opened the door immediately there was no one to be seen.
Nor did he or Mrs. Fox obtain any clue as to the cause of the trouble, notwithstanding all
the efforts they made and the precautions they exercised.

The only circumstance which seemed to suggest the possibility of trickery or of mistake was,
that these various unexplained occurrences never happened in daylight, and thus notwithstanding
the strangeness of the thing, when morning came they began to think it must have been the fancy
of the night. Not being given to superstition, they clung, throughout several weeks of annoyance,
to the idea that some natural explanation of these seemingly mysterious events would at last
appear, nor did they abandon this hope till the night of

                    FRIDAY, MARCH 31st, 1848,

a date which was destined to be indelibly imprinted on the minds of the coming generations
as the daybreak of a new era in the spiritual development of humanity, a date which has since
been regularly observed as marking the advent of the greatest spiritual revelation of modern
times, and recognised as the anniversary of the Spiritualist movement in all parts of the world.

CHAPTER IV.

The day had been cold and stormy, with snow on the ground. In the course of the afternoon,
David, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Fox, came to visit his parents from his farm about three miles
distant. Mrs. Fox then first recounted to him the particulars of the annoyances they had endured;
for until now they had been little disposed to communicate these to any one. He listened to
her with a smiling face. "Well mother," he said, "I advise you not to say a word about it to
the neighbours. When you find it out it will be one of the simplest things in the world." And
in that belief he returned to his own home.

Wearied out by a succession of sleepless nights and of fruitless attempts to penetrate the
mystery, the Fox family retired on that Friday evening very early to rest, hoping for a respite
from the disturbances that harassed them. But they were doomed to disappointment. Rest was
impossible. The children kept up a continuous chatter, sitting up in bed to listen to the sounds.
Mr. Fox tried the windows and doors, to discover, if possible, the source of the annoyance.
The night being windy it suggested itself to him that it might be the sashes rattling, but
all in vain; the raps continued and were evidently answering the noise occasioned by the father
shaking the windows, as if in mockery.

At length the youngest child, Kate--who in her guileless innocence had become familiar with
the invisible knocker, until she was more amused than alarmed at its presence--merrily exclaimed:
"Here, Mr. Split-foot, do as I do." The effect was instantaneous: the invisible rapper responded
by imitating the number of her movements. She then made a given number of motions with her
finger and thumb in the air, but without noise, and her astonishment was re-doubled to find
that these movements were seen by the invisible rapper, for a corresponding number of knocks
were immediately given to her noiseless motions, whilst from her lips as though but in childish
jest and transport at her new discovery there sprang to life the words which revealed the sublimest
Spiritual Truth of modern times: "Only look mother

                    IT CAN SEE AS WELL AS HEAR."

Words which have since become a text which Doctors, Professors, sceptics and scoffers have
tried to crush out of existence--and ignominously failed, but which on the other hand have
brought comfort, solace, and permanent joy to the hearts of hundreds of thousands--nay, millions
surely,--of earth's weary pilgrims. Words which declared a truth since tested by every possible
subtlety and sophistry which the ingenuity of man could suggest or devise, but which has stood
firmly through every ordeal. Words which declare a truth that has already become the firm foundation
of faith for an ever progressive Spiritual Church, made up of almost every nation of the earth,
and embracing adherents from every rank of philosophic, scientific, religious and social life,
which, moreover, reveals its own attributes to the child and the philosopher alike, and provides
the missing link between a finite material world and a world of infinite spiritual possibilities
by proving the continuity of life.

CHAPTER V.

Happily for the momentous work which the spiritual telegraphers had undertaken to initiate
in this humble dwelling, the first manifestations did not appeal to the high and learned of
the earth, but to the plain common-sense of an honest farmer's wife, and suggested that whatever
could see, hear, and intelligently respond to relevant queries, must have in it something in
common with humanity; and thus Mrs. Fox continued her investigations. Addressing the viewless
rapper she said "count ten;" the raps obeyed. "How old is my daughter Margaret?" then "Kate?"
Both questions were distinctly and correctly rapped out. Mrs. Fox then asked "How many children
have I?" Seven, was the reply; this however proved to be wrong for she had only six living.
She repeated her question and was again answered by seven raps; suddenly she cried "How many
have I living?" Six raps responded. "How many dead?" a single knock; and both these answers
proved correct. To the next question, "Are you a man that knocks?" there was no response; but
"Are you a spirit?" elicited firm and distinctive responsive knocks.

Emboldened by her success, Mrs. Fox continued her enquiries and ascertained by raps that the
messages were coming from what purported to be the Spirit of an injured man who had been murdered
for his money. To the question how old he was, there came thirty-one distinct raps. He also
gave them to understand that he was a married man, and had left a wife and five children; that
his wife was dead, and had been dead two years. After ascertaining so much, she asked the question
"Will the noise continue if I call in some neighbours?" The answer was by rapping in the affirmative.

At first they called in their nearest neighbours, who came thinking they would have a hearty
laugh at the family for being frightened--but when the first neighbour came in and found that
the noise, whatever it might be, could tell the age of herself as well as others, and give
correct answers to questions on matters of which the family of Mr. Fox was quite ignorant,
she concluded that there was something beside a subject of ridicule and laughter in these unseen
but audible communications. These neighbours insisted on calling others who came, and after
investigation were as much confounded as at first.

The reader must endeavour to picture to himself the scene which followed the introduction of
the neighbours to this weird and most novel court of inquiry. Imagine the place to be an humble
cottage in a remote and obscure hamlet; the judge and jurors, simple unsophisticated rustics;
and the witness an invisible, unknown being, a denizen of a world of whose very existence mankind
has been ignorant; acting by laws mysterious and inconceivable, in modes utterly beyond all
human control or comprehension, and breaking through what has been deemed the dark and eternal
seal of death, to reveal the long-hidden mysteries of the grave, and drag to the light secrets
which not even the fabled silence of the grave could longer hide away. Those who have been
accustomed to dream of death as the end of all whom its shadowy portals inclose, alone are
prepared to appreciate the awful and startling reality of this strange scene, breaking apart,
as it did, like a rope of sand, all the preconceived opinions of countless ages on the existence
and destiny of the living dead.

Those who have become familiar with the revealments of the spirit circle will only smile at
the consternation evoked in this rustic party by the now familiar presence and manifestations
of "the spirits," but to those who still stand in the night of superstition, deeming of all
earth's countless millions as "dead," "lost," "gone," no one knows whither; never to return;
to give no sign, no echo, no dim vibration from that vast gulf profound of unfathomed mystery--what
a picture is that which suddenly brings them face to face with the mighty hosts of the vanished
dead, all clothed in life, and girded round with a panoply of power, and light, and strength;
with vivid memory of the secret wrongs deemed buried in their graves. Our cities are thronged
with an unseen people who flit about us, their piercing eyes invisible to us, are scanning
all our ways. The universe is teeming with them,--"THERE ARE NO DEAD,"--the air, the earth,
and the sky above, are filled with a viewless host of spirit--witnesses whose messages ever
declare "There is no death."

CHAPTER VI.

Amongst the investigators introduced to the household was a Mr. William Deusler, of Arcadia,
an immediate neighbour of the Fox family at this time, and from his testimony we gather a great
many interesting facts as to the evidence offered by the injured spirit in order that its identity
could be clearly established.

Mr. Deusler had formerly lived with his father in this house, and the message that the spirit
had received an injury, prompted him to ask if either he or his father had been the cause of
such an injury. On receiving an assurance that they were in no way responsible, the investigation
was continued, the results being here given in Mr. Deusler's own words--

"I then asked if Mr. ---- [naming a person who had formerly lived in the house] had injured
it, and if so, to manifest it by rapping, and it made three knocks louder than common, and
at the same time the bedstead jarred more than it had done before. I then inquired if it was
murdered for money, and the knocking was heard. I then requested it to rap when I mentioned
the sum of money for which it was murdered. I then asked if it was one hundred, two, three
or four, and when I came to five hundred the rapping was heard. All in the room said they heard
it distinctly. I then asked the question if it was five hundred dollars, and the rapping was heard.

"After this, I sent over and got Artemus W. Hyde to come over.[A] He came over. I then asked
over nearly the same questions as before, and got the same answers. Mr. Redfield sent after
David Jewel and wife, and Mrs. Hyde also came. After they came in I asked the same questions
over and got the same answers. . . . I then asked it to rap my age--the number of years of
my age. It rapped thirty times. This is my age, and I do not think any one about here knew
my age, except myself and family. I then told it to rap my wife's age, and it rapped thirty
times, which is her exact age; several of us counted it at the same time. I then asked it to
rap A. W. Hyde's age; then Mrs. A. W. Hyde's age. I then continued to ask it to rap the ages
of different persons--naming them--in the room, and it did so correctly, as they all said.
I then asked the number of children in the different families in the neighbourhood, and it
told them correctly in the usual way, by rapping; also the number of deaths that had taken
place in the different families, and it told correctly. . . .

"I then asked in regard to the time it was murdered, and in the usual way, by asking the different
days of the week and the different hours of the day, learned that it was murdered on Tuesday
night, about twelve o'clock. The rapping was heard only when this particular time was mentioned.
When it was asked if it was murdered on a Wednesday, or Thursday, or Friday night, etc., there
was no rapping. I then asked if it carried any trunk, and it rapped that it did. Then how many,
and it rapped once. In the same way we ascertained that it had goods in the trunk, and that
---- took them when he murdered him; and that he had a pack of goods besides. I asked if its
wife was living, and it did not rap. If she was dead, and it rapped. . . . This was tried over
several times and the result was always the same.

"I then tried to ascertain the first letters of its name by calling over the different letters
of the alphabet. I commenced with A, and asked if it was the initial of its name; and when
I asked if it was B the rapping commenced. We then tried all the other letters, but could get
no answer by the usual rapping. I then asked if we could find out the whole name by reading
over all the letters of the alphabet, and there was no rapping. I then reversed the question,
and the rapping was heard. . . . There were a good many more questions asked on that night
by myself and others which I do not now remember. They were all readily answered in the same
way. I staid in the house until about twelve o'clock and then came home. Mr. Redfield and Mr.
Fox staid in the house that night.

"Saturday night I went over again about seven o'clock. The house was full of people when I
got there. They said it had been rapping some time. I went into the room. It was rapping in
answer to questions when I went in. . . .

"There were as many as three hundred people in and around the house at this time, I should
think. Hiram Soverhill, Esq., and Volney Brown asked it questions while I was there, and it
rapped in answer to them.

"I went over again on Sunday between one and two o'clock p.m. I went into the cellar with several
others, and had them all leave the house over our heads; and then I asked, if there had been
a man buried in the cellar, to manifest it by rapping or any other noise or sign. The moment
I asked the question there was a sound like the falling of a stick about a foot long and half
an inch through, on the floor in the bedroom over our heads. It did not seem to rebound at
all; there was but one sound. I then asked Stephen Smith to go right up and examine the room,
and see if he could discover the cause of the noise. He came back and said he could discover
nothing; that there was no one in the room, or in that part of the house. I then asked two
more questions, and it rapped in the usual way. We all went up-stairs and made a thorough search,
but could find nothing.

"I then got a knife and fork, and tried to see if I could make the same noise by dropping them,
but I could not. This was all I heard on Sunday. There is only one floor, or partition, or
thickness between the bedroom and the cellar; no place where anything could be secreted to
make the noise. When this noise was heard in the bedroom I could feel a slight tremulous motion
or jar. . . .

"On Monday night I heard this noise again, and asked the same questions I did before and got
the same answers. This is the last time I have heard any rapping. I can in no way account for
this singular noise which I and others have heard. It is a mystery to me which I am unable
to solve. . . .

"I lived in the same house about seven years ago, and at that time never heard any noises of
the kind in and about the premises. I have understood from Johnston and others who have lived
there before ----moved there, that there were no such sounds heard there while they occupied
the house. I never believed in haunted houses, or heard or saw anything but what I could account
for before.

                                                     (Signed),
                                                  WILLIAM DEUSLER."

   "April 12, 1848."

To the same effect is the testimony of the following persons, whose certificates were published
in a pamphlet by E. E. Lewis, Esq., of Canandaigua, New York, namely: John D. Fox, Walter Scotten,
Elizabeth Jewel, Lorren Tenney, James Bridger, Chauncey P. Losey, Benjamin F. Clark, Elizabeth
Fox, Vernelia Culver, William D. Storer, Marvin P. Losey, David S. Fox, and Mary Redfield.

FOOTNOTE:

[A] The son of the proprietor of the house at Hydesville.

CHAPTER VII.

The news of the mysterious rappings continued to spread abroad, and the house was filled with
anxious seekers for the unknown and invisible visitor. Up to this time the noises had only
been heard at night, but on Sunday morning, April 2nd, the sounds were first heard in the daytime,
and by any who could get into the house. It has been estimated that at one time there were
about five hundred people gathered around the house, so great was the excitement at the commencement
of these strange occurrences.

On the Monday following, Mr. Fox and others commenced digging in the cellar, but as the house
was built on low ground and in the vicinity of a stream then much swollen by rains, it was
not surprising that they were baffled by the influx of water at the distance of three feet
down. In the summer of 1848, when the ground was dry and the water lowered, the digging again
commenced, when they found a plank, a vacant place or hole, some bits of crockery, which seemed
to have been a washbowl, traces of charcoal, quicklime, some human hair, bones (declared on
examination by a surgeon to be human), including a portion of a skull, but no connected skull
was found.

[Interesting facts relating to the missing portions of the human body were announced in the
public newspapers as recently as December, 1904, for which see Appendix.]

Such were the results of the examination of the cellar; such the only corroborative evidences
obtained of the truth of the spirit's tale of untimely death. The presence of human remains
in the cellar proves that someone was buried there, and the quicklime and charcoal testify
to the fact that attempts were made to secretly dispose of the body of the victim.

The Fox family did not immediately quit the scene of this mysterious haunting, but remained
to witness still more astounding phenomena. The furniture was frequently moved about; the girls
were often touched by hard cold hands; doors were opened and shut with violence; their beds
were so violently shaken that they were obliged to "camp out" as they termed it, on the ground;
their bedclothes were dragged from them, and the very floor and house made to rock as in an
earthquake. Night after night they would be appalled by hearing a sound like a death struggle,
the gurgling of the throat, a sudden thud as of something falling, the dragging as of a helpless
body across the room and down the cellar stairs, the digging of a grave, nailing of boards,
and the filling up as of a new made grave. These sounds have subsequently been produced by
request, and spontaneously also, in the presence of many persons assembled in circles at Rochester.

It was perceived that "the spirits" seemed to select or require the presence of the two younger
girls of the family for the production of the sounds, and though these had been made without
them, especially on the night of the 31st of March, when all the members of the family save
Mr. Fox were absent from the house, still as curiosity prompted them to close observation and
conversation with the invisible power, it was clear that the manifestations became more powerful
in the presence of Kate, the youngest daughter, than with any one else.

As the house was continually thronged with curious inquirers, and the time, comfort and peace
of the family were consumed with these harassing disturbances, besides the most absurd though
injurious suspicions being cast upon them, they endeavoured to baffle the haunters by sending
Kate to reside with her eldest sister, Mrs. Fish, at Rochester; but no sooner had she gone
than the manifestations re-commenced with more force than ever, in the presence of Margaretta.
In course of time Mrs. Fox, with both her daughters, went to live in Rochester, but neither
change of place nor house, nor yet the separation of the family, afforded them any relief from
the disturbances that evidently attached themselves to persons rather than places as formerly.

Although the Fox family had for months striven to banish the power that tormented them, praying
with all the fervour of true Methodism to be released from it, and enduring fear, loss and
anxiety in its continuance, the report of its persistence began to spread abroad, causing a
rain of persecutions to fall upon them from all quarters. Old friends looked coldly on them,
and strangers circulated the most atrocious slanders at their expense.

Mrs. Fish, the eldest sister, who was a teacher of music in Rochester, began to lose her pupils,
and whilst the blanching of the poor mother's hair in a single week bore testimony to the mental
tortures which supra-mundane terrors and mundane cruelties had heaped upon them, the world
was taunting them with imposture and with originating the very manifestations which were destroying
their health, peace of mind, and good name. They had solicited the advice of their much-respected
friend, Isaac Post, a highly esteemed Quaker citizen of Rochester, and at his suggestion succeeded
in communicating by raps with the invisible power, through the alphabet (an attempt had been
previously made but without success). Telegraphic numbers were given to signify "Yes" or "No,"
"Doubtful," etc., and sentences were spelled out by which they learned the astounding facts
that not only "Charles Rosna" the murdered pedlar, but hosts of spirits, good and bad, high
and low, could under certain conditions not understood, and impossible for mortals yet to comprehend,
communicate with earth; that such communication was produced through the forces of spiritual
magnetism, in chemical affinity; that the varieties of magnetism in different individuals afforded
"medium power" to some, and denied it to others; that the magnetic relations necessary to produce
phenomena were very subtle, liable to disturbance and singularly susceptible to the influence
of the mental emotions. In addition to communications purporting thus to explain the object
and something of the modus operandi of the communion, numerous spirit friends of the family,
and also of those who joined in their investigations, gladdened the hearts of their astonished
relatives by direct and unlooked-for tests of their presence. They came spelling out their
names, ages and various tokens of identity correctly, and proclaiming the joyful tidings that
they all "still lived," "still loved," and with the tenderness of human affection and the wisdom
of a higher sphere of existence, watched over and guided the beloved ones who had mourned them
as dead, with all the gracious ministry of guardian angels.

CHAPTER VIII.

But redolent of joy and consolation as is the intercourse with beloved friends, at this time
when orderly communion has succeeded doubtful experiment, it must not be supposed that any
such harmonious results characterised the initiatory proceedings of the spiritual movement
which now made its advent in Rochester.

Within and without the dwellings of the medium, all was fear, consternation, doubt, and anxiety.
Fanatical religionists of different sects had forced themselves into the family gatherings,
and the wildest scenes of rant, cant, and absurdity often ensued. Opinions of the most astounding
nature were hazarded concerning the object of this movement; some determining that it was a
"millennium" and looking for the speedy reign of a personal Messiah and the equally speedy
destruction of the wicked.

It must not be supposed that the clergy were idle spectators of the tumultuous wave that was
sweeping over the city. On the contrary, several of them called on Mrs. Fox with offers to
"exorcise the spirits," and when they found their attempts futile, and that though the spirits
would rap in chorus to the "amens" with which they concluded their incantations, they were
otherwise unmoved by these reverend performances, they generally ended by proclaiming abroad
that the family were "in league with the evil one," or the "authors of a vile imposture."

Honourable exceptions, however, were found to this cowardly and unchristian course, and amongst
these was the Rev. A. H. Jervis, a Methodist minister of Rochester, in whose family remarkable
manifestations occurred of the same character as in that of the Foxes, and whose appreciation
of the beauty and worth of the communications he received, several of his published letters
bear witness of. Mr. Lyman Granger, Rev. Charles Hammond, Deacon Hale, and several other families
of wealth and influence, both in Rochester and the surrounding towns, also began to experience
similar phenomena in their own households, while the news came from all quarters, extending
as far as Cincinnati and St. Louis, West, and Maine, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and New York,
East, that the mysterious rappings and other phases of what is now called "medium power" were
rapidly spreading from town to town and State to State, in fulfilment of an assurance made
in the very first of the communications to the Fox family, namely, "that these manifestations
were not to be confined to them, BUT WOULD GO ALL OVER THE WORLD."

The remarkable manner in which this prophecy has been fulfilled the most casual observer will
readily admit; for Spiritualism--even as a religious power--has far outstripped any other form
of religion in the world in the rapidity of its growth, having reached every civilized nation
and permeated every other form of belief in less than half a century.

