This theory is a very far-reaching one, and of course it is adequate to furnish a foundation
for a whole social philosophy. In its widest extension it comes to mean that if any man finds
himself uncomfortable in this world, it must be somebody else's fault, and that somebody is
bound to come and make him comfortable. Now, the people who are most uncomfortable in this
world (for if we should tell all our troubles it would not be found to be a very comfortable
world for anybody) are those who have neglected their duties, and consequently have failed
to get their rights. The people who can be called upon to serve the uncomfortable must be those
who have done their duty, as the world goes, tolerably well. Consequently the doctrine which
we are discussing turns out to be in practice only a scheme for making injustice prevail in
human society by reversing the distribution of rewards and punishments between those who have
done their duty and those who have not.

We are constantly preached at by our public teachers, as if respectable people were to blame
because some people are not respectable--as if the man who has done his duty in his own sphere
was responsible in some way for another man who has not done his duty in his sphere. There
are relations of employer and employé which need to be regulated by compromise and treaty.
There are sanitary precautions which need to be taken in factories and houses. There are precautions
against fire which are necessary. There is care needed that children be not employed too young,
and that they have an education. There is care needed that banks, insurance companies, and
railroads be well managed, and that officers do not abuse their trusts. There is a duty in
each case on the interested parties to defend their own interest. The penalty of neglect is
suffering. The system of providing for these things by boards and inspectors throws the cost
of it, not on the interested parties, but on the tax-payers. Some of them, no doubt, are the
interested parties, and they may consider that they are exercising the proper care by paying
taxes to support an inspector. If so, they only get their fair deserts when the railroad inspector
finds out that a bridge is not safe after it is broken down, or when the bank examiner comes
in to find out why a bank failed after the cashier has stolen all the funds. The real victim
is the Forgotten Man again--the man who has watched his own investments, made his own machinery
safe, attended to his own plumbing, and educated his own children, and who, just when he wants
to enjoy the fruits of his care, is told that it is his duty to go and take care of some of
his negligent neighbors, or, if he does not go, to pay an inspector to go. No doubt it is often
in his interest to go or to send, rather than to have the matter neglected, on account of his
own connection with the thing neglected, and his own secondary peril; but the point now is,
that if preaching and philosophizing can do any good in the premises, it is all wrong to preach
to the Forgotten Man that it is his duty to go and remedy other people's neglect. It is not
his duty. It is a harsh and unjust burden which is laid upon him, and it is only the more unjust
because no one thinks of him when laying the burden so that it falls on him. The exhortations
ought to be expended on the negligent--that they take care of themselves.

It is an especially vicious extension of the false doctrine above mentioned that criminals
have some sort of a right against or claim on society. Many reformatory plans are based on
a doctrine of this kind when they are urged upon the public conscience. A criminal is a man
who, instead of working with and for the society, has turned against it, and become destructive
and injurious. His punishment means that society rules him out of its membership, and separates
him from its association, by execution or imprisonment, according to the gravity of his offense.
He has no claims against society at all. What shall be done with him is a question of expediency
to be settled in view of the interests of society--that is, of the non-criminals. The French
writers of the school of '48 used to represent the badness of the bad men as the fault of "society."
As the object of this statement was to show that the badness of the bad men was not the fault
of the bad men, and as society contains only good men and bad men, it followed that the badness
of the bad men was the fault of the good men. On that theory, of course the good men owed a
great deal to the bad men who were in prison and at the galleys on their account. If we do
not admit that theory, it behooves us to remember that any claim which we allow to the criminal
against the "State" is only so much burden laid upon those who have never cost the State anything
for discipline or correction. The punishments of society are just like those of God and Nature--they
are warnings to the wrong-doer to reform himself.

When public offices are to be filled numerous candidates at once appear. Some are urged on
the ground that they are poor, or cannot earn a living, or want support while getting an education,
or have female relatives dependent on them, or are in poor health, or belong in a particular
district, or are related to certain persons, or have done meritorious service in some other
line of work than that which they apply to do. The abuses of the public service are to be condemned
on account of the harm to the public interest, but there is an incidental injustice of the
same general character with that which we are discussing. If an office is granted by favoritism
or for any personal reason to A, it cannot be given to B. If an office is filled by a person
who is unfit for it, he always keeps out somebody somewhere who is fit for it; that is, the
social injustice has a victim in an unknown person--the Forgotten Man--and he is some person
who has no political influence, and who has known no way in which to secure the chances of
life except to deserve them. He is passed by for the noisy, pushing, importunate, and incompetent.

I have said something disparagingly in a previous chapter about the popular rage against combined
capital, corporations, corners, selling futures, etc., etc. The popular rage is not without
reason, but it is sadly misdirected and the real things which deserve attack are thriving all
the time. The greatest social evil with which we have to contend is jobbery. Whatever there
is in legislative charters, watering stocks, etc., etc., which is objectionable, comes under
the head of jobbery. Jobbery is any scheme which aims to gain, not by the legitimate fruits
of industry and enterprise, but by extorting from somebody a part of his product under guise
of some pretended industrial undertaking. Of course it is only a modification when the undertaking
in question has some legitimate character, but the occasion is used to graft upon it devices
for obtaining what has not been earned. Jobbery is the vice of plutocracy, and it is the especial
form under which plutocracy corrupts a democratic and republican form of government. The United
States is deeply afflicted with it, and the problem of civil liberty here is to conquer it.
It affects everything which we really need to have done to such an extent that we have to do
without public objects which we need through fear of jobbery. Our public buildings are jobs--not
always, but often. They are not needed, or are costly beyond all necessity or even decent luxury.
Internal improvements are jobs. They are not made because they are needed to meet needs which
have been experienced. They are made to serve private ends, often incidentally the political
interests of the persons who vote the appropriations. Pensions have become jobs. In England
pensions used to be given to aristocrats, because aristocrats had political influence, in order
to corrupt them. Here pensions are given to the great democratic mass, because they have political
power, to corrupt them. Instead of going out where there is plenty of land and making a farm
there, some people go down under the Mississippi River to make a farm, and then they want to
tax all the people in the United States to make dikes to keep the river off their farms. The
California gold-miners have washed out gold, and have washed the dirt down into the rivers
and on the farms below. They want the Federal Government to now clean out the rivers and restore
the farms. The silver-miners found their product declining in value, and they got the Federal
Government to go into the market and buy what the public did not want, in order to sustain
(as they hoped) the price of silver. The Federal Government is called upon to buy or hire unsalable
ships, to build canals which will not pay, to furnish capital for all sorts of experiments,
and to provide capital for enterprises of which private individuals will win the profits. All
this is called "developing our resources," but it is, in truth, the great plan of all living
on each other.

The greatest job of all is a protective tariff. It includes the biggest log-rolling and the
widest corruption of economic and political ideas. It was said that there would be a rebellion
if the taxes were not taken off whiskey and tobacco, which taxes were paid into the public
Treasury. Just then the importations of Sumatra tobacco became important enough to affect the
market. The Connecticut tobacco-growers at once called for an import duty on tobacco which
would keep up the price of their product. So it appears that if the tax on tobacco is paid
to the Federal Treasury there will be a rebellion, but if it is paid to the Connecticut tobacco-raisers
there will be no rebellion at all. The farmers have long paid tribute to the manufacturers;
now the manufacturing and other laborers are to pay tribute to the farmers. The system is made
more comprehensive and complete, and we all are living on each other more than ever.

Now, the plan of plundering each other produces nothing. It only wastes. All the material over
which the protected interests wrangle and grab must be got from somebody outside of their circle.
The talk is all about the American laborer and American industry, but in every case in which
there is not an actual production of wealth by industry there are two laborers and two industries
to be considered--the one who gets and the one who gives. Every protected industry has to plead,
as the major premise of its argument, that any industry which does not pay ought to be carried
on at the expense of the consumers of the product, and, as its minor premise, that the industry
in question does not pay; that is, that it cannot reproduce a capital equal in value to that
which it consumes plus the current rate of profit. Hence every such industry must be a parasite
on some other industry. What is the other industry? Who is the other man? This, the real question,
is always overlooked.

In all jobbery the case is the same. There is a victim somewhere who is paying for it all.
The doors of waste and extravagance stand open, and there seems to be a general agreement to
squander and spend. It all belongs to somebody. There is somebody who had to contribute it,
and who will have to find more. Nothing is ever said about him. Attention is all absorbed by
the clamorous interests, the importunate petitioners, the plausible schemers, the pitiless
bores. Now, who is the victim? He is the Forgotten Man. If we go to find him, we shall find
him hard at work tilling the soil to get out of it the fund for all the jobbery, the object
of all the plunder, the cost of all the economic quackery, and the pay of all the politicians
and statesmen who have sacrificed his interests to his enemies. We shall find him an honest,
sober, industrious citizen, unknown outside his little circle, paying his debts and his taxes,
supporting the church and the school, reading his party newspaper, and cheering for his pet
politician.

We must not overlook the fact that the Forgotten Man is not infrequently a woman. I have before
me a newspaper which contains five letters from corset-stitchers who complain that they cannot
earn more than seventy-five cents a day with a machine, and that they have to provide the thread.
The tax on the grade of thread used by them is prohibitory as to all importation, and it is
the corset-stitchers who have to pay day by day out of their time and labor the total enhancement
of price due to the tax. Women who earn their own living probably earn on an average seventy-five
cents per day of ten hours. Twenty-four minutes' work ought to buy a spool of thread at the
retail price, if the American work-woman were allowed to exchange her labor for thread on the
best terms that the art and commerce of today would allow; but after she has done twenty-four
minutes' work for the thread she is forced by the laws of her country to go back and work sixteen
minutes longer to pay the tax--that is, to support the thread-mill. The thread-mill, therefore,
is not an institution for getting thread for the American people, but for making thread harder
to get than it would be if there were no such institution.

In justification, now, of an arrangement so monstrously unjust and out of place in a free country,
it is said that the employés in the thread-mill get high wages, and that, but for the tax,
American laborers must come down to the low wages of foreign thread-makers. It is not true
that American thread-makers get any more than the market rate of wages, and they would not
get less if the tax were entirely removed, because the market rate of wages in the United States
would be controlled then, as it is now, by the supply and demand of laborers under the natural
advantages and opportunities of industry in this country. It makes a great impression on the
imagination, however, to go to a manufacturing town and see great mills and a crowd of operatives;
and such a sight is put forward, under the special allegation that it would not exist but for
a protective tax, as a proof that protective taxes are wise. But if it be true that the thread-mill
would not exist but for the tax, or that the operatives would not get such good wages but for
the tax, then how can we form a judgment as to whether the protective system is wise or not
unless we call to mind all the seamstresses, washer-women, servants, factory-hands, saleswomen,
teachers, and laborers' wives and daughters, scattered in the garrets and tenements of great
cities and in cottages all over the country, who are paying the tax which keeps the mill going
and pays the extra wages? If the sewing-women, teachers, servants, and washer-women could once
be collected over against the thread-mill, then some inferences could be drawn which would
be worth something. Then some light might be thrown upon the obstinate fallacy of "creating
an industry," and we might begin to understand the difference between wanting thread and wanting
a thread-mill. Some nations spend capital on great palaces, others on standing armies, others
on iron-clad ships of war. Those things are all glorious, and strike the imagination with great
force when they are seen; but no one doubts that they make life harder for the scattered insignificant
peasants and laborers who have to pay for them all. They "support a great many people," they
"make work," they "give employment to other industries." We Americans have no palaces, armies,
or iron-clads, but we spend our earnings on protected industries. A big protected factory,
if it really needs the protection for its support, is a heavier load for the Forgotten Men
and Women than an iron-clad ship of war in time of peace.

It is plain that the Forgotten Man and the Forgotten Woman are the real productive strength
of the country. The Forgotten Man works and votes--generally he prays--but his chief business
in life is to pay. His name never gets into the newspapers except when he marries or dies.
He is an obscure man. He may grumble sometimes to his wife, but he does not frequent the grocery,
and he does not talk politics at the tavern. So he is forgotten. Yet who is there whom the
statesman, economist, and social philosopher ought to think of before this man? If any student
of social science comes to appreciate the case of the Forgotten Man, he will become an unflinching
advocate of strict scientific thinking in sociology, and a hard-hearted skeptic as regards
any scheme of social amelioration. He will always want to know, Who and where is the Forgotten
Man in this case, who will have to pay for it all?

The Forgotten Man is not a pauper. It belongs to his character to save something. Hence he
is a capitalist, though never a great one. He is a "poor" man in the popular sense of the word,
but not in a correct sense. In fact, one of the most constant and trustworthy signs that the
Forgotten Man is in danger of a new assault is, that "the poor man" is brought into the discussion.
Since the Forgotten Man has some capital, any one who cares for his interest will try to make
capital secure by securing the inviolability of contracts, the stability of currency, and the
firmness of credit. Any one, therefore, who cares for the Forgotten Man will be sure to be
considered a friend of the capitalist and an enemy of the poor man.

It is the Forgotten Man who is threatened by every extension of the paternal theory of government.
It is he who must work and pay. When, therefore, the statesmen and social philosophers sit
down to think what the State can do or ought to do, they really mean to decide what the Forgotten
Man shall do. What the Forgotten Man wants, therefore, is a fuller realization of constitutional
liberty. He is suffering from the fact that there are yet mixed in our institutions mediaeval
theories of protection, regulation, and authority, and modern theories of independence and
individual liberty and responsibility. The consequence of this mixed state of things is, that
those who are clever enough to get into control use the paternal theory by which to measure
their own rights--that is, they assume privileges; and they use the theory of liberty to measure
their own duties--that is, when it comes to the duties, they want to be "let alone." The Forgotten
Man never gets into control. He has to pay both ways. His rights are measured to him by the
theory of liberty--that is, he has only such as he can conquer; his duties are measured to
him on the paternal theory--that is, he must discharge all which are laid upon him, as is the
fortune of parents. In a paternal relation there are always two parties, a father and a child;
and when we use the paternal relation metaphorically, it is of the first importance to know
who is to be father and who is to be child. The rôle of parent falls always to the Forgotten
Man. What he wants, therefore, is that ambiguities in our institutions be cleared up, and that
liberty be more fully realized.

It behooves any economist or social philosopher, whatever be the grade of his orthodoxy, who
proposes to enlarge the sphere of the "State," or to take any steps whatever having in view
the welfare of any class whatever, to pursue the analysis of the social effects of his proposition
until he finds that other group whose interests must be curtailed or whose energies must be
placed under contribution by the course of action which he proposes; and he cannot maintain
his proposition until he has demonstrated that it will be more advantageous, both quantitatively
and qualitatively, to those who must bear the weight of it than complete non-interference by
the State with the relations of the parties in question.

XI.

WHEREFORE WE SHOULD LOVE ONE ANOTHER.

Suppose that a man, going through a wood, should be struck by a falling tree and pinned down
beneath it. Suppose that another man, coming that way and finding him there, should, instead
of hastening to give or to bring aid, begin to lecture on the law of gravitation, taking the
tree as an illustration.

Suppose, again, that a person lecturing on the law of gravitation should state the law of falling
bodies, and suppose that an objector should say: You state your law as a cold, mathematical
fact and you declare that all bodies will fall conformably to it. How heartless! You do not
reflect that it may be a beautiful little child falling from a window.

These two suppositions may be of some use to us as illustrations.

Let us take the second first. It is the objection of the sentimentalist; and, ridiculous as
the mode of discussion appears when applied to the laws of natural philosophy, the sociologist
is constantly met by objections of just that character. Especially when the subject under discussion
is charity in any of its public forms, the attempt to bring method and clearness into the discussion
is sure to be crossed by suggestions which are as far from the point and as foreign to any
really intelligent point of view as the supposed speech in the illustration. In the first place,
a child would fall just as a stone would fall. Nature's forces know no pity. Just so in sociology.
The forces know no pity. In the second place, if a natural philosopher should discuss all the
bodies which may fall, he would go entirely astray, and would certainly do no good. The same
is true of the sociologist. He must concentrate, not scatter, and study laws, not all conceivable
combinations of force which may occur in practice. In the third place, nobody ever saw a body
fall as the philosophers say it will fall, because they can accomplish nothing unless they
study forces separately, and allow for their combined action in all concrete and actual phenomena.
The same is true in sociology, with the additional fact that the forces and their combinations
in sociology are far the most complex which we have to deal with. In the fourth place, any
natural philosopher who should stop, after stating the law of falling bodies, to warn mothers
not to let their children fall out of the window, would make himself ridiculous. Just so a
sociologist who should attach moral applications and practical maxims to his investigations
would entirely miss his proper business. There is the force of gravity as a fact in the world.
If we understand this, the necessity of care to conform to the action of gravity meets us at
every step in our private life and personal experience. The fact in sociology is in no wise
different.

If, for instance, we take political economy, that science does not teach an individual how
to get rich. It is a social science. It treats of the laws of the material welfare of human
societies. It is, therefore, only one science among all the sciences which inform us about
the laws and conditions of our life on earth. Education has for its object to give a man knowledge
of the conditions and laws of living, so that, in any case in which the individual stands face
to face with the necessity of deciding what to do, if he is an educated man, he may know how
to make a wise and intelligent decision. If he knows chemistry, physics, geology, and other
sciences, he will know what he must encounter of obstacle or help in Nature in what he proposes
to do. If he knows physiology and hygiene, he will know what effects on health he must expect
in one course or another. If he knows political economy, he will know what effect on wealth
and on the welfare of society one course or another will produce. There is no injunction, no
"ought" in political economy at all. It does not assume to tell man what he ought to do, any
more than chemistry tells us that we ought to mix things, or mathematics that we ought to solve
equations. It only gives one element necessary to an intelligent decision, and in every practical
and concrete case the responsibility of deciding what to do rests on the man who has to act.
The economist, therefore, does not say to any one, You ought never to give money to charity.
He contradicts anybody who says, You ought to give money to charity; and, in opposition to
any such person, he says, Let me show you what difference it makes to you, to others, to society,
whether you give money to charity or not, so that you can make a wise and intelligent decision.
Certainly there is no harder thing to do than to employ capital charitably. It would be extreme
folly to say that nothing of that sort ought to be done, but I fully believe that today the
next pernicious thing to vice is charity in its broad and popular sense.

In the preceding chapters I have discussed the public and social relations of classes, and
those social topics in which groups of persons are considered as groups or classes, without
regard to personal merits or demerits. I have relegated all charitable work to the domain of
private relations, where personal acquaintance and personal estimates may furnish the proper
limitations and guarantees. A man who had no sympathies and no sentiments would be a very poor
creature; but the public charities, more especially the legislative charities, nourish no man's
sympathies and sentiments. Furthermore, it ought to be distinctly perceived that any charitable
and benevolent effort which any man desires to make voluntarily, to see if he can do any good,
lies entirely beyond the field of discussion. It would be as impertinent to prevent his effort
as it is to force co-operation in an effort on some one who does not want to participate in
it. What I choose to do by way of exercising my own sympathies under my own reason and conscience
is one thing; what another man forces me to do of a sympathetic character, because his reason
and conscience approve of it, is quite another thing.

What, now, is the reason why we should help each other? This carries us back to the other illustration
with which we started. We may philosophize as coolly and correctly as we choose about our duties
and about the laws of right living; no one of us lives up to what he knows. The man struck
by the falling tree has, perhaps, been careless. We are all careless. Environed as we are by
risks and perils, which befall us as misfortunes, no man of us is in a position to say, "I
know all the laws, and am sure to obey them all; therefore I shall never need aid and sympathy."
At the very best, one of us fails in one way and another in another, if we do not fail altogether.
Therefore the man under the tree is the one of us who for the moment is smitten. It may be
you to-morrow, and I next day. It is the common frailty in the midst of a common peril which
gives us a kind of solidarity of interest to rescue the one for whom the chances of life have
turned out badly just now. Probably the victim is to blame. He almost always is so. A lecture
to that effect in the crisis of his peril would be out of place, because it would not fit the
need of the moment; but it would be very much in place at another time, when the need was to
avert the repetition of such an accident to somebody else. Men, therefore, owe to men, in the
chances and perils of this life, aid and sympathy, on account of the common participation in
human frailty and folly. This observation, however, puts aid and sympathy in the field of private
and personal relations, under the regulation of reason and conscience, and gives no ground
for mechanical and impersonal schemes.

We may, then, distinguish four things:

1. The function of science is to investigate truth. Science is colorless and impersonal. It
investigates the force of gravity, and finds out the laws of that force, and has nothing to
do with the weal or woe of men under the operation of the law.

2. The moral deductions as to what one ought to do are to be drawn by the reason and conscience
of the individual man who is instructed by science. Let him take note of the force of gravity,
and see to it that he does not walk off a precipice or get in the way of a falling body.

3. On account of the number and variety of perils of all kinds by which our lives are environed,
and on account of ignorance, carelessness, and folly, we all neglect to obey the moral deductions
which we have learned, so that, in fact, the wisest and the best of us act foolishly and suffer.

4. The law of sympathy, by which we share each others' burdens, is to do as we would be done
by. It is not a scientific principle, and does not admit of such generalization or interpretation
that A can tell B what this law enjoins on B to do. Hence the relations of sympathy and sentiment
are essentially limited to two persons only, and they cannot be made a basis for the relations
of groups of persons, or for discussion by any third party.

Social improvement is not to be won by direct effort. It is secondary, and results from physical
or economic improvements. That is the reason why schemes of direct social amelioration always
have an arbitrary, sentimental, and artificial character, while true social advance must be
a product and a growth. The efforts which are being put forth for every kind of progress in
the arts and sciences are, therefore, contributing to true social progress. Let any one learn
what hardship was involved, even for a wealthy person, a century ago, in crossing the Atlantic,
and then let him compare that hardship even with a steerage passage at the present time, considering
time and money cost. This improvement in transportation by which "the poor and weak" can be
carried from the crowded centres of population to the new land is worth more to them than all
the schemes of all the social reformers. An improvement in surgical instruments or in anaesthetics
really does more for those who are not well off than all the declamations of the orators and
pious wishes of the reformers. Civil service reform would be a greater gain to the laborers
than innumerable factory acts and eight-hour laws. Free trade would be a greater blessing to
"the poor man" than all the devices of all the friends of humanity if they could be realized.
If the economists could satisfactorily solve the problem of the regulation of paper currency,
they would do more for the wages class than could be accomplished by all the artificial doctrines
about wages which they seem to feel bound to encourage. If we could get firm and good laws
passed for the management of savings-banks, and then refrain from the amendments by which those
laws are gradually broken down, we should do more for the non-capitalist class than by volumes
of laws against "corporations" and the "excessive power of capital."

