As to the comparative cost of a vegetarian and omnivorous diet, it is instructive to learn
that it is proverbial in the Western States of America that a Chinaman can live and support
his family in health and comfort on an allowance which to a meat-eating white man would be
starvation. It is not to be denied that a vegetarian desirous of living to eat, and having
no reason or desire to be economical, could spend money as extravagantly as a devotee of the
flesh-pots having a similar disposition. But it is significant that the poor of most European
countries are not vegetarians from choice but from necessity. Had they the means doubtless
they would purchase meat, not because of any instinctive liking for it, but because of that
almost universal trait of human character that causes men to desire to imitate their superiors,
without, in most cases, any due consideration as to whether the supposed superiors are worthy
of the genuflection they get. Were King George or Kaiser Wilhelm to become vegetarians and
advocate the non-flesh diet, such an occurrence would do far more towards advancing the popularity
of this diet than a thousand lectures from "mere" men of science. Carlyle was not far wrong
when he called men "clothes worshippers." The uneducated and poor imitate the educated and
rich, not because they possess that attitude of mind which owes its existence to a very deep
and subtle emotion and which is expressed in worship and veneration for power, whether it be
power of body, power of rank, power of mind, or power of wealth. The poor among Western nations
are vegetarians because they cannot afford to buy meat, and this is plain enough proof as to
which dietary is the cheaper.

Perhaps a few straightforward facts on this point may prove interesting. An ordinary man, weighing
140 lbs. to 170 lbs., under ordinary conditions, at moderately active work, as an engineer,
carpenter, etc., could live in comfort and maintain good health on a dietary providing daily
1 lb. bread (600 to 700 grs. protein); 8 ozs. potatoes (70 grs. protein); 3 ozs. rice, or barley,
or macaroni, or maize meal, etc. (100 grs. protein); 4 ozs. dates, or figs, or prunes, or bananas,
etc., and 2 ozs. shelled nuts (130 grs. protein); the cost of which need not exceed 10c. to
15c. per day; or in the case of one leading a more sedentary life, such as clerical work, these
would be slightly reduced and the cost reduced to 8c. to 12c. per day. For one shilling per
day, luxuries, such as nut butter, sweet-stuffs, and a variety of fruits and vegetables could
be added. It is hardly necessary to point out that the housewife would be 'hard put to' to
make ends meet 'living well' on the ordinary diet at 25c. per head per day. The writer, weighing
140 lbs., who lives a moderately active life, enjoys good health, and whose tastes are simple,
finds the cost of a cereal diet comes to 50c. to 75c. per week.

The political economist and reformer finds on investigation, that the adoption of vegetarianism
would be a solution of many of the complex and baffling questions connected with the material
prosperity of the nation. Here is a remedy for unemployment, drink, slums, disease, and many
forms of vice; a remedy that is within the reach of everyone, and that costs only the relinquishing
of a foolish prejudice and the adoption of a natural mode of living plus the effort to overcome
a vicious habit and the denial of pleasure derived from the gratification of corrupted appetite.
Nature will soon create a dislike for that which once was a pleasure, and in compensation will
confer a wholesome and beneficent enjoyment in the partaking of pure and salutary foods. Whether
or no the meat-eating nations will awake to these facts in time to save themselves from ruin
and extinction remains to be seen. Meat-eating has grown side by side with disease in England
during the past seventy years, but there are now, fortunately, some signs of abatement. The
doctors, owing perhaps to some prescience in the air, some psychical foreboding, are recommending
that less meat be eaten. But whatever the future has in store, there is nothing more certain
than this--that in the adoption of the vegetable regimen is to be found, if not a complete
panacea, at least a partial remedy, for the political and social ills that our nation at the
present time is afflicted with, and that those of us who would be true patriots are in duty
bound to practise and preach vegetarianism wheresoever and whensoever we can.

VI

THE EXCLUSION OF DAIRY PRODUCE

It is unfortunate that many flesh-abstainers who agree with the general trend of the foregoing
arguments do not realise that these same arguments also apply to abstinence from those animal
foods known as dairy produce. In considering this further aspect it is necessary for reasons
already given, to place hygienic considerations first.

Is it reasonable to suppose that Nature ever intended the milk of the cow or the egg of the
fowl for the use of man as food? Can anyone deny that Nature intended the cow's milk for the
nourishment of her calf and the hen's egg for the propagation of her species? It is begging
the question to say that the cow furnishes more milk than her calf requires, or that it does
not injure the hen to steal her eggs. Besides, it is not true.

Regarding the dietetic value of milk and eggs, which is the question of first importance, are
we correct in drawing the inference that as Nature did not intend these foods for man, therefore
they are not suitable for him? As far as the chemical constituents of these foods are concerned,
it is true they contain compounds essential to the nourishment of the human body, and if this
is going to be set up as an argument in favor of their consumption, let it be remembered that
flesh food also contains compounds essential to nourishment. But the point is this: not what
valuable nutritive compounds does any food-substance contain, but what value, taking into consideration
its total effects, has the food in question as a wholesome article of diet?

It seems to be quite generally acknowledged by the medical profession that raw milk is a dangerous
food on account of the fact that it is liable from various causes, sometimes inevitable, to
contain impurities. Dr. Kellogg writes: Typhoid fever, cholera infantum, tuberculosis and tubercular
consumption--three of the most deadly diseases known; it is very probable also, that diphtheria,
scarlet fever and several other maladies are communicated through the medium of milk.... It
is safe to say that very few people indeed are fully acquainted with the dangers to life and
health which lurk in the milk supply.... The teeming millions of China, a country which contains
nearly one-third of the entire population of the globe, are practically ignorant of this article
of food. The high-class Hindoo regards milk as a loathsome and impure article of food, speaking
of it with the greatest contempt as "cow-juice," doubtless because of his observations of the
deleterious effect of the use of milk in its raw state.

The germs of tuberculosis seem to be the most dangerous in milk, for they thrive and retain
their vitality for many weeks, even in butter and cheese. An eminent German authority, Hirschberger,
is said to have found 10 per cent of the cows in the vicinity of large cities to be affected
by tuberculosis. Many other authorities might be quoted supporting the contention that a large
percentage of cows are afflicted by this deadly disease. Other germs, quite as dangerous, find
their way into milk in numerous ways. Excreta, clinging to the hairs of the udder, are frequently
rubbed off into the pail by the action of the hand whilst milking. Under the most careful sanitary
precautions it is impossible to obtain milk free from manure, from the ordinary germs of putrefaction
to the most deadly microbes known to science. There is little doubt but that milk is one of
the uncleanest and impurest of all foods.

Milk is constipating, and as constipation is one of the commonest complaints, a preventive
may be found in abstinence from this food. As regards eggs, there is perhaps not so much to
be said, although eggs so quickly undergo a change akin to putrefaction that unless eaten fresh
they are unfit for food; moreover, (according to Dr. Haig) they contain a considerable amount
of xanthins, and cannot, therefore, be considered a desirable food.

Dairy foods, we emphatically affirm, are not necessary to health. In the section dealing with
'Physical Considerations' sufficient was said to prove the eminent value of an exclusive vegetable
diet, and the reader is referred to that and the subsequent essay on Nutrition and Diet for
proof that man can and should live without animal food of any kind. Such nutritive properties
as are possessed by milk and eggs are abundantly found in the vegetable kingdom. The table
of comparative values given, exhibits this quite plainly. That man can live a thoroughly healthy
life upon vegetable foods alone there is ample evidence to prove, and there is good cause to
believe that milk and eggs not only are quite unnecessary, but are foods unsuited to the human
organism, and may be, and often are, the cause of disease. Of course, it is recognized that
with scrupulous care this danger can be minimized to a great extent, but still it is always
there, and as there is no reason why we should consume such foods, it is not foolish to continue
to do so?

But this is not all. It is quite as impossible to consume dairy produce without slaughter as
it is to eat flesh without slaughter. There are probably as many bulls born as cows. One bull
for breeding purposes suffices for many cows and lives for many years, so what is to be done
with the bull calves if our humanitarian scruples debar us from providing a vocation for the
butcher? The country would soon be overrun with vast herds of wild animals and the whole populace
would have to take to arms for self-preservation. So it comes to the same thing. If we did
not breed these animals for their flesh, or milk, or eggs, or labour, we should have no use
for them, and so should breed them no longer, and they would quickly become extinct. The wild
goat and sheep and the feathered life might survive indefinitely in mountainous districts,
but large animals that are not domesticated, or bred for slaughter, soon disappear before the
approach of civilisation. The Irish elk is extinct, and the buffalo of North America has been
wiped out during quite recent years. If leather became more expensive (much of it is derived
from horse hide) manufacturers of leather substitutes would have a better market than they
have at present.

VI

CONCLUSION

'However much thou art read in theory, if thou hast no practice thou art ignorant,' says the
Persian poet Sa'di. 'Conviction, were it never so excellent, is worthless until it converts
itself into Conduct. Nay, properly, Conviction is not possible till then,' says Herr Teufelsdrockh.
It is never too late to be virtuous. It is right that we should look before we leap, but it
is gross misconduct to neglect duty to conform to the consuetudes of the hour. We must endeavour
in practical life to carry out to the best of our ability our philosophical and ethical convictions,
for any lapse in such endeavour is what constitutes immorality. We must live consistently with
theory so long as our chief purpose in life is advanced by so doing, but we must be inconsistent
when by antinomianism we better forward this purpose. To illustrate: All morally-minded people
desire to serve as a force working for the happiness of the race. We are convinced that the
slaughter of animals for food is needless, and that it entails much physical and mental suffering
among men and animals and is therefore immoral. Knowing this we should exert our best efforts
to counteract the wrong, firstly, by regulating our own conduct so as not to take either an
active or passive part in this needless massacre of sub-human life, and secondly, by making
those facts widely known which show the necessity for food reform.

Now to go to the ultimate extreme as regards our own conduct we should make no use of such
things as leather, bone, catgut, etc. We should not even so much as attend a concert where
the players use catgut strings, for however far distantly related cause and effect may be,
the fact remains that the more the demand, no matter how small, the more the supply. We should
not even be guilty of accosting a friend from over the way lest in consequence he take more
steps than otherwise he would do, thus wearing out more shoe-leather. He who would practise
such absurd sansculottism as this would have to resort to the severest seclusion, and plainly
enough we cannot approve of such fanaticism. By turning antinomian when necessary and staying
amongst our fellows, making known our views according to our ability and opportunity, we shall
be doing more towards establishing the proper relation between man and sub-man than by turning
cenobite and refusing all intercourse and association with our fellows. Let us do small wrong
that we may accomplish great good. Let us practise our creed so far as to abstain from the
eating of animal food, and from the use of furs, feathers, seal and fox skins, and similar
ornaments, to obtain which necessitates the violation of our fundamental principles. With regard
to leather, this material is, under present conditions, a 'by-product.' The hides of animals
slaughtered for their flesh are made into leather, and it is not censurable in a vegetarian
to use this article in the absence of a suitable substitute when he knows that by so doing
he is not asking an animal's life, nor a fellow-being to degrade his character by taking it.
There is a substitute for leather now on the market, and it is hoped that it may soon be in
demand, for even a leather-tanner's work is not exactly an ideal occupation.

Looking at the question of conviction and consistency in this way, there are conceivable circumstances
when the staunchest vegetarian may even turn kreophagist. As to how far it is permissible to
depart from the strictest adherence to the principles of vegetarianism that have been laid
down, the individual must trust his own conscience to determine; but we can confidently affirm
that the eating of animal flesh is unnecessary and immoral and retards development in the direction
which the finest minds of the race hold to be good; and that the only time when it would not
be wrong to feed upon such food would be when, owing to misfortunes such as shipwreck, war,
famine, etc., starvation can only be kept at bay by the sacrifice of animal life. In such a
case, man, considering his own life the more valuable, must resort to the unnatural practice
of flesh-eating.

The reformer may have, indeed must have, to pay a price, and sometimes a big one, for the privilege,
the greatest of all privileges, of educating his fellows to a realisation of their errors,
to a realisation of a better and nobler view of life than they have hitherto known. Seldom
do men who carve out a way for themselves, casting aside the conventional prejudices of their
day, and daring to proclaim, and live up to, the truth they see, meet with the esteem and respect
due to them; but this should not, and, if they are sincere and courageous, does not, deter
them from announcing their message and caring for the personal discomfort it causes. It is
such as these that the world has to thank for its progress.

It often happens that the reformer reaps not the benefit of the reform he introduces. Men are
slow to perceive and strangely slow to act, yet he who has genuine affection for his fellows,
and whose desire for the betterment of humanity is no mere sentimental pseudo-religiosity,
bears bravely the disappointment he is sure to experience, and with undaunted heart urges the
cause that, as he sees it, stands for the enlightenment and happiness of man. The vegetarian
in the West (Europe, America, etc.) is often ridiculed and spoken of by appellations neither
complimentary nor kind, but this should deter no honorable man or woman from entering the ranks
of the vegetarian movement as soon as he or she perceives the moral obligation to do so. It
may be hard, perhaps impossible, to convert others to the same views, but the vegetarian is
not hindered from living his own life according to the dictates of his conscience. 'He who
conquers others is strong, but the man who conquers himself is mighty,' wrote Laotze in the
Tao Teh Ch'ing, or 'The Simple Way.'

When we call to mind some heroic character--a Socrates, a Regulus, a Savonarola--the petty
sacrifices our duties entail seem trivial indeed. We do well to remember that it is only by
obedience to the highest dictates of our own hearts and minds that we may obtain true happiness.
It is only by living in harmony with all living creatures that nobility and purity of life
are attainable. As we obey the immediate vision, so do we become able to see yet richer visions:
but the strength of the vision is ours only as we obey its high demands.

NUTRITION AND DIET

I

THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION

The importance of some general knowledge of the principles of nutrition and the nutritive values
of foods is not generally realised. Ignorance on such a matter is not usually looked upon as
a disgrace, but, on the contrary, it would be commonly thought far more reprehensible to lack
the ability to conjugate the verb 'to be' than to lack a knowledge of the chemical properties
of the food we eat, and the suitability of it to our organism. Yet the latter bears direct
and intimate relation to man's physical, mental, and moral well-being, while the former is
but a 'sapless, heartless thistle for pedantic chaffinches,' as Jean Paul would say.

The human body is the most complicated machine conceivable, and as it is absurd to suppose
that any tyro can take charge of so comparatively simple a piece of mechanism as a locomotive,
how much more absurd is it to suppose the human body can be kept in fit condition, and worked
satisfactorily, without at least some, if only slight, knowledge of the nature of its constitution,
and an understanding of the means to satisfy its requirements? Only by study and observation
comes the knowledge of how best to supply the required material which, by its oxidation in
the body, repairs waste, gives warmth and produces energy.

Considering, then, that the majority of people are entirely ignorant both of the chemical constitution
of the body, and the physiological relationship between the body and food, it is not surprising
to observe that in respect to this question of caring for the body, making it grow and work
and think, many come to grief, having breakdowns which are called by various big-sounding names.
Indeed, to the student of dietetics, the surprise is that the body is so well able to withstand
the abuse it receives.

It has already been explained in the previous essay how essential it is if we live in an artificial
environment and depart from primitive habits, thereby losing natural instincts such as guide
the wild animals, that we should study diet. No more need be said on this point. It may not
be necessary that we should have some general knowledge of fundamental principles, and learn
how to apply them with reasonable precision.

The chemical constitution of the human body is made up of a large variety of elements and compounds.
From fifteen to twenty elements are found in it, chief among which are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon,
nitrogen, calcium, phosphorus, sodium, and sulphur. The most important compounds are protein,
hydrocarbons, carbohydrates, organic mineral matter, and water. The food which nourishes the
body is composed of the same elements and compounds.

Food serves two purposes,--it builds and repairs the body tissues, and it generates vital heat
and energy, burning food as fuel. Protein and mineral matter serve the first purpose, and hydrocarbons
(fats) and carbohydrates (sugars and starches) the second, although, if too much protein be
assimilated it will be burnt as fuel, (but it is bad fuel as will be mentioned later), and
if too much fat is consumed it will be stored away in the body as reserve supply. Most food
contains some protein, fat, carbohydrates, mineral matter, and water, but the proportion varies
very considerably in different foods.

Water is the most abundant compound in the body, forming on an average, over sixty per cent.
of the body by weight. It cannot be burnt, but is a component part of all the tissues and is
therefore an exceedingly, important food. Mineral matter forms approximately five or six per
cent. of the body by weight. Phosphate of lime (calcium phosphate), builds bone; and many compounds
of potassium, sodium, magnesium and iron are present in the body and are necessary nutrients.
Under the term protein are included the principal nitrogenous compounds which make bone, muscle
and other material. It forms about 15 per cent. of the body by weight, and, as mentioned above,
is burnt as fuel for generating heat and energy. Carbohydrates form but a small proportion
of the body-tissue, less than one per cent. Starches, sugars, and the fibre of plants, or cellulose,
are included under this term. They serve the same purpose as fat.

All dietitians are agreed that protein is the essential combined in food. Deprivation of it
quickly produces a starved physical condition. The actual quantity required cannot be determined
with perfect accuracy, although estimates can be made approximately correct. The importance
of the other nutrient compounds is but secondary. But the system must have all the nutrient
compounds in correct proportions if it is to be maintained in perfect health. These proportions
differ slightly according to the individual's physical constitution, temperament and occupation.

Food replenishes waste caused by the continual wear and tear incidental to daily life: the
wear and tear of the muscles in all physical exertion, of the brain in thinking, of the internal
organs in the digestion of food, in all the intricate processes of metabolism, in the excretion
of waste matter, and the secretion of vital fluids, etc. The ideal diet is one which replenishes
waste with the smallest amount of suitable material, so that the system is kept in its normal
condition of health at a minimum of expense of energy. The value, therefore, of some general
knowledge of the chemical constituents of food is obvious. The diet must be properly balanced,
that is, the food eaten must provide the nutrients the body requires, and not contain an excess
of one element or a deficiency of another. It is impossible to substitute protein for fat,
or vice versa, and get the same physiological result, although the human organism is wonderfully
tolerant of abuse, and remarkably ingenious in its ability to adapt itself to abnormal conditions.

It has been argued that it is essentially necessary for a well-balanced dietary that the variety
of food be large, or if the variety is to be for any reason restricted, it must be chosen with
great discretion. Dietetic authorities are not agreed as to whether the variety should be large
or small, but there is a concensus of opinion that, be it large or small, it should be selected
with a view to supplying the proper nutrients in proper proportions. The arguments, so far
as the writer understands them, for and against a large variety of foods, are as follows:--

If the variety be large there is a temptation to over-feed. Appetite does not need to be goaded
by tasty dishes; it does not need to be goaded at all. We should eat when hungry and until
replenished; but to eat when not hungry in order to gratify a merely sensual appetite, to have
dishes so spiced and concocted as to stimulate a jaded appetite by novelty of taste, is harmful
to an extent but seldom realised. Hence the advisability, at least in the case of persons who
have not attained self-mastery over sensual desire, of having little variety, for then, when
the system is replenished, over-feeding is less likely to occur.

In this connection it should be remembered that in some parts of the world the poor, although
possessing great strength and excellent health, live upon, and apparently relish, a dietary
limited mostly to black bread and garlics, while among ourselves an ordinary person eats as
many as fifty different foods in one day.[3]

On the other hand, a too monotonous dietary, especially where people are accustomed to a large
variety of mixed foods, fails to give the gustatory pleasure necessary for a healthy secretion
of the digestive juices, and so may quite possibly result in indigestion. It is a matter of
common observation that we are better able to digest food which we enjoy than that which we
dislike, and as we live not upon what we eat, but upon what we digest, the importance of enjoying
the food eaten is obvious.

Also as few people know anything about the nutritive value of foods, they stand a better chance,
if they eat a large variety, of procuring the required quantity of different nutrients than
when restricted to a very limited dietary, because, if the dietary be very limited they might
by accident choose as their mainstay some food that was badly balanced in the different nutrients,
perhaps wholly lacking in protein. It is lamentable that there is such ignorance on such an
all-important subject. However, we have to consider things as they are and not as they ought to be.

Perhaps the best way is to have different food at different meals, without indulging in many
varieties at one meal. Thus taste can be satisfied, while the temptation to eat merely for
the sake of eating is less likely to arise.

It might be mentioned, in passing, that in the opinion of the best modern authorities the average
person eats far more than he needs, and that this excess inevitably results in pathological
conditions. Voit's estimate of what food the average person requires daily was based upon observation
of what people do eat, not upon what they should eat. Obviously such an estimate is valueless.
As well argue that an ounce of tobacco daily is what an ordinary person should smoke because
it is the amount which the average smoker consumes.

A vegetarian needs only to consider the amount of protein necessary, and obtained from the
food eaten. The other nutrients will be supplied in proportions correct enough to satisfy the
body requirements under normal conditions of health. The only thing to take note of is that
more fat and carbohydrates are needed in cold weather than hot, the body requiring more fuel
for warmth. But even this is not essential: the essential thing is to have the required amount
of protein. In passing, it is interesting to observe the following: the fact that in a mixed
fruitarian diet the proportion of the nutrient compounds is such as to satisfy natural requirements
is another proof of the suitability of the vegetable regimen to the human organism. It is a
provision of Nature that those foods man's digestive organs are constructed to assimilate with
facility, and man's organs of taste, smell, and perception best prefer, are those foods containing
chemical compounds in proportions best suited to nourish his body.

One of the many reasons why flesh-eating is deleterious is that flesh is an ill-balanced food,
containing, as it does, considerable protein and fat, but no carbohydrates or neutralising
salts whatever. As the body requires three to four times more carbohydrates than protein, and
protein cannot be properly assimilated without organic minerals, it is seen that with the customary
'bread, meat and boiled potatoes' diet, this proportion is not obtained. Prof. Chittenden holds
the opinion that the majority of people partake greatly in excess of food rich in protein.

No hard and fast rule can be laid down to different persons require different foods and foods
and amounts at different times under different

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ |               
| +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

regulate the amount, or proper proportions, of food material for a well-balanced dietary, as
amounts, and the same person requires different ferent conditions. Professor W. O. Atwater,
an American, makes the following statement: 'As the habits and conditions of individuals differ,
so, too, their needs for nourishment differ, and their food should be adapted to their particular
requirements. It has been estimated that an average man at moderately active labor, like a
carpenter, or mason, should have (daily) about 115 grams (1750 grains) or 0.25 pound of available
protein, and sufficient fuel ingredients in addition to make the fuel value of the whole diet
3,400 calories; while a man at sedentary employment would be well nourished with 92 grams (1400
grains) or 0.20 pound of available protein, and enough fat and carbohydrates in addition to
yield 2,700 calories of energy. The demands are, however, variable, increasing and decreasing
with increase and decrease of muscular work, or as other needs of the person change. Each person,
too, should learn by experience what kinds of food yield him nourishment with the least discomfort,
and should avoid those which do not "agree" with him.'

It has been stated that unless the body is supplied with protein, hunger will be felt, no matter
if the stomach be over-loaded with non-nitrogenous food. If a hungry man ate heartily of only
such foods as fresh fruit and green vegetables he might soon experience a feeling of fulness,
but his hunger would not be appeased. Nature asks for protein, and hunger will continue so
long as this want remains unsatisfied. Similarly as food is the first necessity of life, so
is protein the first necessity in food. If a person were deprived of protein starvation must
inevitably ensue.

Were we (by 'we' is meant the generality of people in this country), to weigh out our food
supply, for, say a week, we should soon realise what a large reduction from the usual quantity
of food consumed would have to be made, and instead of eating, as is customary, without an
appetite, hunger might perhaps once a day make itself felt. There is little doubt but that
the health of most people would be vastly improved if food were only eaten when genuine hunger
was felt, and the dietary chosen were well balanced, i.e., the proportions of protein, fat,
carbohydrates and salts being about 3, 2, 9, 2-3. As aforesaid, the mixed vegetarian dietary
is, in general, well-balanced.

While speaking about too much food, it may be pointed out that the function of appetite is
to inform us that the body is in need of nutriment. The appetite was intended by Nature for
this purpose, yet how few people wait upon appetite! The generality of people eat by time,
custom, habit, and sensual desire; not by appetite at all. If we eat when not hungry, and drink
when not thirsty, we are doing the body no good but positive harm. The organs of digestion
are given work that is unnecessary, thus detracting from the vital force of the body, for there
is only a limited amount of potential energy, and if some of this is spent unnecessarily in
working the internal organs, it follows that there is less energy for working the muscles or
the brain. So that an individual who habitually overfeeds becomes, after a time, easily tired,
physically lazy, weak, perhaps if temperamentally predisposed, nervous and hypochondriacal.
Moreover, over-eating not only adds to the general wear and tear, thus probably shortening
life, but may even result in positive disease, as well as many minor complaints such as constipation,
dyspepsia, flatulency, obesity, skin troubles, rheumatism, lethargy, etc.

Just as there is danger in eating too much, so there is much harm done by drinking too much.
The evil of stimulating drinks will be spoken of later; at present reference is made only to
water and harmless concoctions such as lime-juice, unfermented wines, etc. To drink when thirsty
is right and natural; it shows that the blood is concentrated and is in want of fluid. But
to drink merely for the pleasure of drinking, or to carry out some insane theory like that
of 'washing out' the system is positively dangerous. The human body is not a dirty barrel needing
swilling out with a hose-pipe. It is a most delicate piece of mechanism, so delicate that the
abuse of any of its parts tends to throw the entire system out of order. It is the function
of the blood to remove all the waste products from the tissues and to supply the fresh material
to take the place of that which has been removed. Swilling the system out with liquid does
not in any way accelerate or aid the process, but, on the contrary, retards and impedes it.
It dilutes the blood, thus creating an abnormal condition in the circulatory system, and may
raise the pressure of blood and dilate the heart. Also it dilutes the secretions which will
therefore 'act slowly and inefficiently, and more or less fermentation and putrefaction will
meanwhile be going on in the food masses, resulting in the formation of gases, acids, and decomposition
products.'

Eating and drinking too much are largely the outcome of sensuality. To see a man eat sensually
is to know how great a sensualist he is. Sensualism is a vice which manifests itself in many
forms. Poverty has its blessings. It compels abstinence from rich and expensive foods and provides
no means for surfeit. Epicurus was not a glutton. Socrates lived on bread and water, as did
Sir Isaac Newton. Mental culture is not fostered by gluttony, but gluttony is indulged in at
the expense of mental culture. The majority of the world's greatest men have led comparatively
simple lives, and have regarded the body as a temple to be kept pure and holy.

We have now to consider (a) what to eat, (b) when to eat, (c) how to eat. First, then, we will
consider the nutritive properties of the common food-stuffs.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: This is not an exaggeration. 'Genoa Cake,' for instance, contains ten varieties
of food: butter, sugar, eggs, flour, milk, sultanas, orange and lemon peel, almonds, and baking
powder.]

II

WHAT TO EAT

