Presently Nan came back with a bundle of Cissie's clothes. Tump took the bundle of dainty lingerie,
the intimate garments of the woman he loved, and set forth on his quixotic errand. He tied
it to his shoulder-holster and set out. Peter went a little of the way with him. It was almost
dusk when they started. The chill of approaching night stung the men's faces. As they walked
past the footpath that led over the Big Hill, three pistol-shots from the glade announced that
the boot-leggers had opened business for the night.

Tump paused and shivered. He said it was a cold night. He thought he would like to get a kick
of "white mule" to put a little heart in him. It was a long walk to Jonesboro. He hesitated
a moment, then turned off the road around the crescent for the path through the glade.

A thought to dissuade Tump from drinking the fiery "singlings" of the moonshiners crossed Peters
mind, but he put it aside. Tump was a habitué of the glade. All the physiological arguments
upon which Peter could base an argument were far beyond the ex-soldier's comprehension. So
Tump turned off through the dark trees. Peter watched him until all he could see was the white
blur of Cissie's underwear swinging against his holster.

After Tump's disappearance, Peter stood for several minutes thinking. His brief crusade into
Niggertown had ended in a situation far outside of his volition. That morning he had started
out with some vague idea of taking Niggertown in his hands and molding it in accordance with
his white ideas; but Niggertown had taken Peter into its hands, had threatened his life, had
administered to him profound mental and moral shocks, and now had dropped him, like some bit
of waste, with his face set over the Big Hill for white town.

As Peter stood there it seemed to him there was something symbolic in his attitude. He was
no longer of the black world; he was of the white. He did not understand his people; they eluded
him.

He belonged to the white world; not to the village across the hill, but to the North. Nothing
now prevented him from going North and taking the position with Farquhar. Cissie Dildine was
impossible for him now. Niggertown was immovable, at least for him. He was no Washington to
lead his people to a loftier plane. In fact, Peter began to suspect that he was no leader at
all. He saw now that his initial success with the Sons and Daughters of Benevolence had been
effected merely by the aura of his college training. After his first misstep he had never rehabilitated
himself. He perhaps had a dash of the artistic in him, and the power to mold ideas often confuses
itself subjectively with the power to mold human beings. In reality he did not even understand
the people he assumed to mold. A suspicion came to him that under the given conditions their
ways were more rational than his own.

As for Cissie Dildine, his duty by the girl, his queer protective passion for her--all that
was surely past now. After her lapse from all decency there was no reason why he should spend
another thought on her. He would go North to Chicago.

The last of the twilight was fading in swift, visible gradations of light. The cedars, the
cabins, and the hill faded in pulse-beats of darkness. Above the Big Hill the last ember of
day smoldered against a green-blue infinity. Here and there a star pricked the dome with a
wintry brilliance.

Then, somehow, the thought of Cissie looking out on that chilly sky through iron bars tightened
Peter's throat. He caught himself up sharply for his emotion. He began a vague defense of the
white man's laws on grounds as cold and impersonal as the winter evening. Laws, customs, and
conventions were for the strengthening of men, to seed the select, to winnow the weak. It was
white logic, applied firmly, as by a white man. But somehow the stars multiplied and kept Cissie's
image before Peter--a cold, frightened girl, harassed with coming motherhood, peering at those
chill, distant lights out of the blackness of a jail.

The mulatto decided to spend the night in his mother's cabin. He would do his packing, and
be ready for the down-river boat in the morning. He found his way to his own gate in the darkness.
He lifted it around, entered, and walked to his door. When he tried to open it, he found some
one had bored holes through the shutter and the jamb and had wired it shut.

Peter struck a match to see just what had been done. The flame displayed a small sheet tacked
on the door. He spent two matches investigating it. It was a notice of levy, posted by the
constable in an action of debt brought against the estate of Caroline Siner by Henry Hooker.
The owner of the estate and the public in general were warned against removing anything whatsoever
from the premises under penalty exacted by the law governing such offenses. Then Peter untwisted
the wire and entered.

Peter searched about and found the tiny brass night-lamp which his mother always had used.
The larger glass-bowled lamp was gone. The interior of the cabin was clammy from cold and foul
from long lack of airing. In the corner his mother's old four-poster loomed in the shadows,
but he could see some of its covers had been taken. He passed into the kitchen with a notion
of building a fire and eating a bite, but everything edible had been abstracted. Even one of
the lids of the old step-stove was gone. Most of the pans and kettles had disappeared, but
the pretty old Dutch sugar-bowl remained on a bare paper-covered shelf. Negro-like, whatever
person or persons who had ransacked Peter's home considered the sugar-bowl too fine to take.
Or they may have thought that Peter would want this bowl for a keepsake, and with that queer
compassion that permeates a negro's worst moments they allowed it to remain. And Peter knew
if he raised an outcry about his losses, much of the property would be surreptitiously restored,
or perhaps his neighbors would bring back his things and say they had found them. They would
help him as best they could, just as they of the crescent would help Cissie as best they could,
and would receive her back as one of them when she and her baby were finally released from jail.

They were a queer people. They were a people who would never get on well and do well. They
lacked the steel-like edge that the white man achieves. By virtue of his hardness, a white
man makes his very laws and virtues instruments to crush and mulct his fellow-man; but negroes
are so softened by untoward streaks of sympathy that they lose the very uses of their crimes.

The depression of the whole day settled upon Peter with the deepening night. He held his poor
light above his head and picked his way to his own room. After the magnificence of the Renfrew
manor, it had contracted to a grimy little box lined with yellowed papers. His books were still
intact, but Henry Hooker would get them as part payment on the Dillihay place, which Henry
owned. On his little table still lay the pile of old examination papers, lists of incoherent
questions which somebody somewhere imagined formed a test of human ability to meet and answer
the mysterious searchings of life.

Peter was familiar with the books; many of the questions he had learned by rote, but the night
and the crescent, and the thought of a pregnant girl caged in the blackness of a jail filled
his soul with a great melancholy query to which he could find no answer.

                              CHAPTER XIX

Two voices talking, interrupting each other with ejaculations, after the fashion of negroes
under excitement, aroused Peter Siner from his sleep. He caught the words: "He did! Tump did!
The jailer did! 'Fo' God! black man, whut's Cissie doin'?"

Overtones of shock, even of horror, in the two voices brought Peter wide awake the moment he
opened his eyes. He sat up suddenly in his bed, remained perfectly still, listening with his
mouth open. The voices, however, were passing. The words became indistinct, then relapsed into
that bubbling monotone of human voices at a distance, and presently ceased.

These fragmentary phrases, however, feathered with consternation, filled Peter with vague premonitions.
He whirled his legs out of bed and began drawing on his clothes. When he was up and into the
crescent, however, nobody was in sight. He stood breathing the chill, damp air, blinking his
eyes. Lack of his cold bath made him feel chilly and lethargic. He wriggled his shoulders and
considered going back, after all, and having his splash. Just then he saw the Persimmon coming
around the crescent. Peter called to the roustabout and asked about Tump Pack.

The Persimmon looked at Peter with his half-asleep, protruding eyeballs.

"Don' you know 'bout Tump Pack already, Mister Siner?"

"No." Peter was astonished at the formality of the "Mr. Siner."

"Then is you 'spectin' somp'n 'bout him?"

"Why, no, but I was asleep in there a moment ago, and somebody came along talking about Tump
and Cissie. They--they aren't married, are they?"

"Oh, no-o, no-o-o, no-o-o-o-o." The Persimmon waggled his bullet head slowly from side to side.
"I heared Tump got into a lil trouble wid de jailer las' night."

"Serious?"

"I dunno." The Persimmon closed one of his protruding yellow eyes. "Owin' to whut you call
se'ius; maybe whut I call se'ius wouldn't be se'ius to you at all; 'n 'en maybe whut you call
se'ius would be ve'y insince'ius to Tump." The roustabout's philosophy, which consisted in
a monotonous recasting of a given proposition, trickled on and on in the cold wind. After a
while it fizzled out to nothing at all, and the Persimmon asked in a queer manner: "Did you
give Tump some women's clo'es, Peter?"

It was such an odd question that at first Peter was at loss; then he recalled Nan Berry's despatching
Cissie some underwear. He explained this to the Persimmon, and tacked on a curious, "Why?"

"Oh, nothin'; nothin' 'tall. Ever'body say you a mighty long-haided nigger. Jim Pink he tell
us 'bout Tump Pack marchin' you 'roun' wid a gun. I sho don' want you ever git mad at me, Mister
Siner. Man wid a gun an' you turn yo' long haid on him an' blow him away wid a wad o' women's
clo'es. I sho don' want you ever cross yo' fingers at me, Mister Siner."

Peter stared at the grotesque, bullet-headed roustabout. "Persimmon," he said uneasily, "what
in the world are you talking about?"

The Persimmon smiled a sickly, white-toothed smile. "Jim Pink say yo' aidjucation is a flivver.
I say, 'Jim Pink, no nigger don' go off an' study fo' yeahs in college whut 'n he comes back
an' kin throw some kin' uv a hoodoo over us fool niggers whut ain't got no brains. Now, Tump
wid a gun, an' you wid jes ordina'y women's clo'es! 'Fo' Gawd, aidjucation is a great thing;
sho is a great thing." The Persimmon gave Peter an apprehensive wink and moved on.

There was no use trying to extract information from the Persimmon unless he was minded to give
it. His talk would merely become vaguer and vaguer. Peter watched him go, then turned and attempted
to throw the whole matter off his mind by assuming a certain brisk Northern mood. He must pack,
get ready for the down-river gasolene launch. The doings of Tump Pack and Cissie Dildine were,
after all, nothing to him.

He started inside, when the levy notice on the door again met his eyes. He paused, read it
over once more, and decided that he must go over the hill to the Planter's Bank and get Henry
Hooker's permission to remove certain small personal belongings that he wanted to take with him.

The mere clear-cut decision to go invigorated Peter.

Some of the energy that always filled him during his college days in Boston seemed to come
to him now from the mere thought of the North. Soon he would be in the midst of it, moving
briskly, talking to wide- awake men to whom a slightly unusual English word would not form
a stumbling-block to conversation. He set out down the crescent and across the Big Hill at
a swinging stride. He was glad to get away.

Beyond the white church on the other side of the hill he heard a motor coming in on the Jonesboro
road. Presently he saw a battered car moving around the long swing of the pike, spewing a trail
of dust down the wind. Its clacking became prodigious.

The mulatto was just entering that indefinite stretch of thoroughfare where a country road
becomes a village street when there came a wail of brakes behind him and he looked around.

It was Dawson Bobbs's car. The fat man now slowed up not far from the mulatto and called to him.

"Yes, sir," said Peter.

Dawson bobbed his fat head backward and upward in a signal for Peter to approach. It held the
casualness of one certain to be obeyed.

Although Peter had done no crime, nor had even harbored a criminal intention, a trickle of
apprehension went through him at Bobbs's nod. He recalled Jim Pink's saying that it was bad
luck to see the constable. He walked up to the shuddering motor and stood about three feet
from the running-board.

The officer bit on a sliver of toothpick that he held in his thin lips.

"Accident up Jonesboro las' night, Peter."

"What was it, Mr. Bobbs?"

"Tump Pack got killed."

Peter continued looking fixedly at Mr. Bobbs's broad red face. The dusty road beneath him seemed
to give a little dip. He repeated the information emptily, trying to orient himself to this
sudden change in his whole mental horizon.

The officer was looking at Peter fixedly with his chill slits of eyes.

"Yeah; trying to make a jail delivery."

The two men continued looking at each other, one from the road, the other from the motor. The
flow of Peter's thoughts seemed to divide. The greater part was occupied with Tump Pack. Peter
could vision the formidable ex-soldier lying dead in Jonesboro jail, with his little congressional
medal on his breast. Some lighter portion of his mind nickered about here and there on trivial
things. He observed a little hole rusted in the running-board of the motor. He noticed that
the officer's eyes were just the same chill, washed blue as the winter sky above his head.
He remembered a tale that, before electrocution became a law in Tennessee the county sheriff's
nerve had failed him at a hanging, and the constable Dawson Bobbs had sprung the drop. There
was something terrible about the fat man. He would do anything, absolutely anything, that came
to his hands in the way of legal sewage.

In the midst of these thoughts Peter heard himself saying.

"He--was trying to get Cissie out?"

"Yep."

"He--must have been drunk."

"Oh, yeah."

Mr. Bobbs sat studying the mulatto. As he studied him he said slowly:

"Some of 'em say he was disguised as a woman. Others say he had some women's clothes along,
ready to put on. Now, me and the sheriff knowed Tump Pack purty well, Peter, and we knowed
that nigger never in the worl' would 'a' thought up sich a plan by hisself."

He sat looking at Peter so interrogatively that the mulatto began, in a strained, earnest voice,
telling the constable precisely what had happened in regard to the clothes.

Mr. Bobbs sat listening impassively, moving his toothpick up and down from one side to the
other of his small, thin-lipped mouth. At last he nodded.

"Well, I guess that's about the way of it. I didn't exactly understand the women's clothes
business,--damn' fool disguise,--but we figgered it might pop into the head of a' edjucated
nigger." He sucked his teeth, reflectively. "Peter," he said at last, "seems to me, if I was
you, I'd drift on away from this town. The niggers around here ain't strong for you now; some
say you're a hoodoo; some say this an' some that. The white folks don't exactly like you trying
to get up a cook's union. It's your right to do that if you want to, of course, but this is
a mighty small city to have unions and things. The fact is, it ain't a big enough place for
a nigger of yore ability, Peter. I b'lieve, if I was you, I'd jes drift on some'eres else."

The officer tipped up his toothpick so that it lifted his upper lip in a little v-shaped opening
and exposed a strong, yellowish tooth. At the moment his machine started slowly forward. It
gave him the appearance of accidentally rolling off while immersed in deep thought.

                    *       *       *       *       *

The death of Tump Pack moved Peter with a sense of strange pathos. He always remembered Tump
tramping away through the night to carry Cissie some underclothes and, if possible, to take
her place in jail. At the foundation of Tump's being lay a faithfulness and devotion to Cissie
that reached the heights of a dog's. And yet, he might have deserted her, he would probably
have beaten her, and he most certainly would have betrayed her many, many times. It was inexplicable.

Now that Tump was dead, the mantle of his fidelity somehow seemed to fall on Peter. For some
reason Peter felt that he should assume Tump's place as Cissie Dildine's husband and protector.
Had Tump lived, Peter might have gone North in peace, if not in happiness. Now such a journey,
without Cissie, had become impossible. He had a feeling that it would not be right.

As for the disgrace of marrying such a woman as Cissie Dildine, Peter slowly gave that idea
up. The "worthinesses" and "disgraces" implicit in Harvard atmosphere, which Peter had spent
four years of his life imbibing, slowly melted away in the air of Niggertown. What was honorable
there, what was disgraceful there, somehow changed its color here.

By virtue of this change Peter felt intuitively that Cissie Dildine was neither disgraced by
her arrest nor soiled by her physical condition. Somehow she seemed just as "nice" a girl,
just as "good" a girl, as ever she was before. Moreover, every other darky in Niggertown held
these same instinctive beliefs. Had it not been for that, Peter would have thought it was his
passion pleading for the girl, justifying itself by a grotesque morality, as passions often
do. But this was not the correct solution. The sentiment was enigmatic. Peter puzzled over
it time and time again as he waited in Hooker's Bend for the outcome of Cissie's trial.

The octoroon's imprisonment came to an end on the third day after Tump's death. Sam Arkwright's
parents had not known of their son's legal proceedings, and Mr. Arkwright immediately quashed
the warrant, and hushed up the unfortunate matter as best he could. Young Sam was suddenly
sent away from home to college, as the best step in the circumstances. And so the wishes of
the adolescent in the cedar-glade came queerly to pass, even if Peter did withhold any grave,
mature advice on the subject which he may have possessed.

Naturally, there was much mirth among the men of Hooker's Bend and much virulence among the
women over the peculiar conditions under which young Sam made his pilgrimage in pursuit of
wisdom and morals and the right conduct of life. And life being problematic and uncertain as
it is, and prone to wind about in the strangest way, no one may say with certitude that young
Sam did not make a promising start.

Certainly, over the affair the Knights of the Round Table launched many a quip and jest, but
that simply proved the fineness of their sentiments toward a certain delicate human relation
which forms mankind's single awful approach to the creative and the holy.

Tump Pack became almost a mythical figure in Niggertown. Jim Pink Staggs composed a saga relating
the soldier's exploits in France, his assault on the jail to liberate Cissie, and his death.

In his songs--and Jim Pink had composed a good many--the minstrel instinctively avoided humor.
He always improvised them to the sobbing of a guitar, and they were as invariably sad as the
poetry of adolescents. It was called "Tump Pack's Lament." The negroes of Hooker's Bend learned
it from Jim Pink, and with them it drifted up and down the three great American rivers, and
now it is sung by the roustabouts, stevedores, and underlings of our strange black American world.

This song commemorating Tump Pack's bravery and faithfulness to his love may very well take
the place of the Congressional medal which, unfortunately, was lost on the night the soldier
was killed. Between the two, there is little doubt that the accolade of fame bestowed in the
buffoon's simple melody is more vital and enduring than that accorded by special act of the
Congress of the United States of America.

When Cissie Dildine returned from jail, she and her mother arranged the Dildine-Siner wedding
as nearly according to white standards in similar circumstances as they could conceive. They
agreed that it should be a simple, quiet home wedding. However, as every soul in Niggertown,
a number of colored friends in Jonesboro, and a contingent from up-river villages meant to
attend, it became necessary to hold the service in the church.

The officiating minister was not Parson Ranson after all, but a Reverend Cleotus Haidus, the
presiding elder of that circuit of the Afro-American Methodist Church, whose duties happened
to call him to Hooker's Bend that day. So, notwithstanding Cissie's efforts at simplicity,
the wedding, after all, was resolved into an affair.

Once, in one of her moments of clairvoyance, Cissie said to Peter:

"Our trouble is, Peter, we are trying to mix what I have learned in Nashville and what you
have learned in Boston with what we both feel in Hooker's Bend. I--I'm almost ashamed to say
it, but I don't really feel sad and plaintive at all, Peter. I feel glad, gloriously glad.
Oh, my dear, dear Peter!" and she flung her arms around Peter's neck and held him with all
her might against her ripening bosom.

To Cissie her theft, her jail sentence, her pregnancy, were nothing more than if she had taken
a sip of water. However, with the imitativeness of her race and the histrionic ability of her
sex, she appeared pensive and subdued during the elaborate double-ring ceremony performed by
the Reverend Cleotus Haidus. Nobody in the packed church knew how tremendously Cissie's heart
was beating except Peter, who held her hand.

The ethical engine that Peter had patiently builded in Harvard almost ceased to function in
this weird morality of Niggertown. Whether he were doing right or doing wrong, Peter could
not determine. He lost all his moorings. At times he felt himself walking according to the
ethnological law, which is the Harvard way of saying walking according to the will of God;
but at other times he felt party to some unpardonable obscenity. So deeply was he disturbed
that out of the dregs of his mind floated up old bits of the Scriptures that he was unaware
of possessing: "There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the
ways of death." And Peter wondered if he were not in that way.

The bridal couple embarked for Cairo on the Red Cloud, a packet in the Dubuque, Ohio, and Tennessee
River trade. Peter and Cissie were not allowed to walk up the main stairway into the passengers'
cabin, but were required to pick their way along the boiler-deck, through the stench of freight,
lumber, live stock and sleeping roustabouts. Then they went through the heat and steam of the
engine-room up a small companionway that led through the toilet, on to the rear guard of the
main deck, and thence back to a little cuddy behind the main saloon called the chambermaid's cabin.

The chambermaid's cabin was filled with the perpetual odor of hot soap- suds, soiled laundry,
and the broader smell of steam and the boat's machinery. The little place trembled night and
day, for the steamer's engines were just beneath them, and immediately behind them thundered
the great stern-wheel of the packet. A single square window in the end of the chambermaid's
cabin looked out on the wheel, but at all times, except when the wind was blowing from just
the right quarter, this window was deluged with a veritable Niagara of water. The continual
shake of the cabin, the creak of the rudder-beam working to and fro, the watery thunder of
the wheel, and the solemn rumble of the engines made conversation impossible until the travelers
grew accustomed to the noises. Still, Cissie found it pleasant. She liked to sit and look out
into the main saloon, with its interminable gilded scrolls extending away up the long cabin,
a suave perspective. She liked to watch the white passengers dine--the white napery, the bouquets,
the endless tables all filled with diners; some swathed in napkins from chin to waistband,
others less completely protected. It gave Cissie a certain tang of triumph to smile at the
swathed ones and to think that she knew better than that.

At night a negro string-band played for the white excursionists to dance, and Cissie would
sit, with glowing eyes, clenching Peter's hand, every fiber of her asway to the music, and
it seemed as if her heart would go mad. All these inhibitions, all this spreading before her
of forbidden joys, did not daunt her delight. She reveled in them by propinquity.

The chambermaid was a Mrs. Antolia Higgman, a strong, full-bodied café-au-lait negress. She
was a very sensible woman, and during her work on the boat she had picked up a Northern accent
and a number of little mannerisms from the Chicago and St. Louis excursionists, who made ten-day
round trips from Dubuque to Florence, Alabama, and return. When Mrs. Higgman was not running
errands for the women passengers, she was working at her perpetual laundering.

At first Peter was a little uneasy as to how Mrs. Higgman would treat Cissie, but she turned
out a good-hearted woman, and did everything she could to make the young wife comfortable.
It soon became clear that Mrs. Higgman knew the whole situation, for one day she said to Cissie
in her odd dialect, burred with Yankeeish "r's" and "ing's."

"These river-r towns, Mrs. Siner-r, are jest like one big village, with the river-r for its
Main Street. I know ever-r'thang that goes on, through the cabin-boys an' cooks, an'--an'--you
cerrtainly ar-re a dear- r, Mrs. Siner-r," and thereupon, quite unexpectedly, she kissed Cissie.

So on about the second day down the river Cissie dropped her saddened manner and became frankly,
freely, and riotously happy. After the fashion of village negresses, she insisted on helping
Mrs. Higgman with her work, and, incidentally, she cultivated Mrs. Higgman's Northern accent.
When the chambermaid was out on her errands and Cissie found a moment alone with Peter, she
would tweak his ear or pull his cheek and provoke him to kiss her. Indeed, it was all the hot,
shuddering little laundry-room could do to contain the gay and bubbling Cissie.

Peter thought and thought, resignedly now, but persistently, how this strange happiness that
belonged to them both could be. He was content, yet he felt he ought not to be content. He
thought there must be something base in himself, yet he felt that there was not. He drank the
wine of his honeymoon marveling.

On the morning before the Red Cloud entered the port of Cairo Mrs. Higgman was out of the cabin,
and Peter stood at the little square window, with his arm about Cissie's waist, looking out
to the rear of the steamer. A strong east wind blew the spray away from the glass, and Peter
could see the huge wheel covered with a waterfall thundering beneath him. Back of the wheel
stretched a long row of even waves and troughs. Every seventh or eighth wave tumbled over on
itself in a swash of foam. These flashing stern waves strung far up the river. On each side
of the great waterway stretched the flat shores of Kentucky and Ohio. Here and there over the
broad clay-colored water moved other boats--tow-boats, a string of government auto-barges,
a snag-boat, another packet.

Peter gave up his question. The curves of Cissie's form in his arm held a sweetness and a restfulness
that her maidenhood had never promised. He felt so deeply sure of his happiness that it seemed
strange to him that he could not aline his emotions and his mind.

As Peter stood staring up the Ohio River, it occurred to him that perhaps, in some queer way,
the morals of black folk were not the morals of white folk; perhaps the laws that bound one
race were not the laws that bound the other. It might be that white anathemas were black blessings.
Peter thought along this line peacefully for several minutes.

And finally he concluded that, after all, morals and conventions, right and wrong, are merely
those precepts that a race have practised and found good in its evolution. Morals are the training
rules that keep a people fit. It might very well be that one moral régime is applicable to
one race, and quite another to another.

The single object of all morals is racial welfare, the racial integrity, the breeding of strong
children to perpetuate the species. If the black race possess a more exuberant vitality than
some other race, then the black would not be forced to practise so severe a vital economy as
some less virile folk. Racial morals are simply a question of having and spending within safety
limits.

Peter knew that for years white men had held a prejudice against marrying widows. This is utterly
without grounds except for one reason: the first born of a woman is the lustiest. Among the
still weaker Aryans of India the widows burn themselves. Among certain South Sea Islanders
only the first-born may live and mate; all other children are slain. Among nearly every white
race marriage lines are strictly drawn, and the tendency is to have few children to a family,
to conserve the precious vital impulse. So strong is this feeling of birth control that to-day
nearly all American white women are ashamed of large families. This shame is the beginning
of a convention; the convention may harden into a cult, a law, or a religion.

And here is the amazing part of morals. Morals are always directed toward one particular race,
but the individual members of that race always feel that their brand of morals does and should
apply to all the peoples of the earth; so one has the spectacle of nations sending out missionaries
and battle-ships to teach and enforce their particular folk-ways. Another queer thing is that
whereas the end of morals is designed solely for the betterment of the race, and is entirely
regardless of the person, to the conscience of the person morals are always translated as something
that binds him personally, that will shame him or honor him personally not only for the brief
span of this worldly life, but through an eternity to come. To him, his particular code, surrounded
by all the sanctions of custom, law, and religion, appears earth-embracing, hell-deep, and
heaven-piercing, and any human creature who follows any other code appears fatally wicked,
utterly shameless, and ineluctably lost.

And yet there is no such thing as absolute morals. Morals are as transitory as the sheen on
a blackbird's wing; they change perpetually with the necessities of the race. Any people with
an abounding vitality will naturally practise customs which a less vital people must shun.

Morals are nothing more than the engines controlling the stream of energy that propel a race
on its course. All engines are not alike, nor are all races bound for the same port.

Here Peter Siner made the amazing discovery that although he had spent four years in Harvard,
he had come out, just as he went in, a negro.

A great joy came over him. He took Cissie whole-heartedly in his arms and kissed again and
again the deep crimson of her lips. His brain and his heart were together at last. As he stood
looking out at the window, pressing Cissie to him, he wondered, when he reached Chicago, if
he could ever make Farquhar understand.