The American Navy. During the Revolution the infant Navy had begun a career of brilliant promise;
and Paul Jones had been a name to conjure with. British belittlement deprived him of his proper
place in history; but he was really the founder of the regular Navy that fought so gallantly
in '1812.' A tradition had been created and a service had been formed. Political opinion, however,
discouraged proper growth. President Jefferson laid down the Democratic party's idea of naval
policy in his first Inaugural. The tendency towards increase of size existed a century ago
as well as to-day. 'Fourth-rates,' of 50 and 60 guns, dropped out of the line at the beginning
of the Seven Years' War. In 1812 the 74-gun three-decker was the smallest man-of-war regularly
used in the line of battle.] This 'progress' had been made in 1801. But in 1812, when Jefferson's
disciple, Madison, formally declared war, not a single keel had been laid. Meanwhile, another
idea of naval policy had been worked out into the ridiculous gunboat system. No wonder the
practical men of the Navy called them 'Jeffs.'

When President Madison summoned Congress in 1811 war was the main topic of debate. Yet all
he had to say about the Navy was contained in twenty-seven lukewarm words. Congress followed
the presidential lead. The momentous naval vote of 1812 provided for an expenditure of six
hundred thousand dollars, which was to be spread over three consecutive years and strictly
limited to buying timber. Then, on the outbreak of war, the government, consistent to the last,
decided to lay up the whole of their sea-going navy lest it should be captured by the British.

But this final indignity was more than the Navy could stand in silence. Some senior officers
spoke their minds, and the party politicians gave way. The result was a series of victories
which, of their own peculiar kind, have never been eclipsed. Not one American ship-of-the-line
was ever afloat during the war; and only twenty-two frigates or smaller naval craft put out
to sea. In addition, there were the three little flotillas on Lakes Erie, Ontario, and Champlain;
and a few minor vessels elsewhere. All the crews together did not exceed ten thousand men,
replacements included. Yet, even with these niggard means, the American Navy won the command
of two lakes completely, held the command of the third in suspense, won every important duel
out at sea, except the famous fight against the Shannon, inflicted serious loss on British
sea-borne trade, and kept a greatly superior British naval force employed on constant and harassing
duty.

The American Privateers. Besides the little Navy, there were 526 privately owned vessels which
were officially authorized to prey on the enemy's trade. These were manned by forty thousand
excellent seamen and had the chance of plundering the richest sea-borne commerce in the world.
They certainly harassed British commerce, even in its own home waters; and during the course
of the war they captured no less than 1344 prizes. But they did practically nothing towards
reducing the British fighting force afloat; and even at their own work of commerce-destroying
they did less than one-third as much as the Navy in proportion to their numbers.

The American Army. The Army had competed with the Navy for the lowest place in Jefferson's
Inaugural of 1801. In 1808 'an additional military force' was authorized. In January 1812,
after war had been virtually decided on, the establishment was raised to thirty-five thousand.
But in June, when war had been declared, less than a quarter of this total could be called
effectives, and more than half were still wanting to complete.' The grand total of all American
regulars, including those present with the colours on the outbreak of hostilities as well as
those raised during the war, amounted to fifty-six thousand. Yet no general had six thousand
actually in the firing line of any one engagement.

The United States Volunteers. Ten thousand volunteers were raised, from first to last. They
differed from the regulars in being enlisted for shorter terms of service and in being generally
allowed to elect their own regimental officers. Theoretically they were furnished in fixed
quotas by the different States, according to population. They resembled the regulars in other
respects, especially in being directly under Federal, not State, authority.

The Rangers. Three thousand men with a real or supposed knowledge of backwoods life served
in the war. They operated in groups and formed a very unequal force--good, bad, and indifferent.
Some were under the Federal authority. Others belonged to the different States. As a distinct
class they had no appreciable influence on the major results of the war.

The Militia. The vast bulk of the American forces, more than three-quarters of the grand total
by land and sea, was made up of the militia belonging to the different States of the Union.
These militiamen could not be moved outside of their respective States without State authority;
and individual consent was also necessary to prolong a term of enlistment, even if the term
should come to an end in the middle of a battle. Some enlisted for several months; others for
no more than one. Very few had any military knowledge whatever; and most of the officers were
no better trained than the men. The totals from all the different States amounted to 456,463.
Not half of these ever got near the front; and not nearly half of those who did get there ever
came into action at all. Except at New Orleans, where the conditions were quite abnormal, the
militia never really helped to decide the issue of any battle, except, indeed, against their
own army. 'The militia thereupon broke and fled' recurs with tiresome frequency in numberless
dispatches. Yet the consequent charges of cowardice are nearly all unjust. The fellow-countrymen
of those sailors who fought the American frigates so magnificently were no special kind of
cowards. But, as a raw militia, they simply were to well-trained regulars what children are to men.

American Non-Combatant Services. There were more than fifty thousand deaths reported on the
American side; yet not ten thousand men were killed or mortally wounded in all the battles
put together. The medical department, like the commissariat and transport, was only organized
at the very last minute, even among the regulars, and then in a most haphazard way. Among the
militia these indispensable branches of the service were never really organized at all.

Such disastrous shortcomings were not caused by any lack of national resources. The population
o the United States was about eight millions, as against eighteen millions in the British Isles.
Prosperity was general; at all events, up to the time that it was checked by Jefferson's Embargo
Act. The finances were also thought to be most satisfactory. On the very eve of war the Secretary
of the Treasury reported that the national debt had been reduced by forty-six million dollars
since his party had come into power. Had this 'war party' spent those millions on its Army
and Navy, the war itself might have had an ending more satisfactory to the United States.

Let us now review the forces on the British side.

The eighteen million people in the British Isles were naturally anxious to avoid war with the
eight millions in the United States. They had enough on their hands as it was. The British
Navy was being kept at a greater strength than ever before; though it was none too strong for
the vast amount of work it had to do. The British Army was waging its greatest Peninsular campaign.
All the other naval and military services of what was already a world-wide empire had to be
maintained. One of the most momentous crises in the world's history was fast approaching; for
Napoleon, arch-enemy of England and mightiest of modern conquerors, was marching on Russia
with five hundred thousand men. Nor was this all. There were troubles at home as well as dangers
abroad. The king had gone mad the year before. The prime minister had recently been assassinated.
The strain of nearly twenty years of war was telling severely on the nation. It was no time
to take on a new enemy, eight millions strong, especially one who supplied so many staple products
during peace and threatened both the sea flank of the mother country and the land flank of
Canada during war.

Canada was then little more than a long, weak line of settlements on the northern frontier
of the United States. Counting in the Maritime Provinces, the population hardly exceeded five
hundred thousand--as many people, altogether, as there were soldiers in one of Napoleon's armies,
or Americans enlisted for service in this very war. Nearly two-thirds of this half-million
were French Canadians in Lower Canada, now the province of Quebec. They were loyal to the British
cause, knowing they could not live a French-Canadian life except within the British Empire.
The population of Upper Canada, now Ontario, was less than a hundred thousand. The Anglo-Canadians
in it were of two kinds: British immigrants and United Empire Loyalists, with sons and grandsons
of each. Both kinds were loyal. But the 'U.E.L.'s' were anti-American through and through,
especially in regard to the war-and-Democratic party then in power. They could therefore be
depended on to fight to the last against an enemy who, having driven them into exile once,
was now coming to wrest their second New-World home from its allegiance to the British crown.
They and their descendants in all parts of Canada numbered more than half the Anglo-Canadian
population in 1812. The few thousand Indians near the scene of action naturally sided with
the British, who treated them better and dispossessed them less than the Americans did. The
only detrimental part of the population was the twenty-five thousand Americans, who simply
used Canada as a good ground for exploitation, and who would have preferred to see it under
the Stars and Stripes, provided that the change put no restriction on their business opportunities.

The British Navy. About thirty thousand men of the British Navy, only a fifth of the whole
service, appeared within the American theatre of war from first to last. This oldest and greatest
of all navies had recently emerged triumphant from an age-long struggle for the command of
the sea. But, partly because of its very numbers and vast heritage of fame, it was suffering
acutely from several forms of weakness. Almost twenty years of continuous war, with dull blockades
during the last seven, was enough to make any service 'go stale.' Owing to the enormous losses
recruiting had become exceedingly and increasingly difficult, even compulsory recruiting by
press-gang. At the same time, Nelson's victories had filled the ordinary run of naval men with
an over-weening confidence in their own invincibility; and this over-confidence had become
more than usually dangerous because of neglected gunnery and defective shipbuilding. The Admiralty
had cut down the supply of practice ammunition and had allowed British ships to lag far behind
those of other nations in material and design. The general inferiority of British shipbuilding
was such an unwelcome truth to the British people that they would not believe it till the American
frigates drove it home with shattering broadsides. But it was a very old truth, for all that.
Nelson's captains, and those of still earlier wars, had always competed eagerly for the command
of the better built French prizes, which they managed to take only because the superiority
of their crews was great enough to overcome the inferiority of their ships. There was a different
tale to tell when inferior British vessels with 'run-down' crews met superior American vessels
with first-rate crews. In those days training and discipline were better in the American mercantile
marine than in the British; and the American Navy, of course, shared in the national efficiency
at sea. Thus, with cheap materials, good designs, and excellent seamen, the Americans started
with great advantages over the British for single-ship actions; and it was some time before
their small collection of ships succumbed to the grinding pressure of the regularly organized
British fleet.

The Provincial Marine. Canada had a little local navy on the Lakes called the Provincial Marine.
It dated from the Conquest, and had done good service again during the Revolution, especially
in Carleton's victory over Arnold on Lake Champlain in 1776. It had not, however, been kept
up as a proper naval force, but had been placed under the quartermaster-general's department
of the Army, where it had been mostly degraded into a mere branch of the transport service.
At one time the effective force had been reduced to 132 men; though many more were hurriedly
added just before the war. Most of its senior officers were too old; and none of the juniors
had enjoyed any real training for combatant duties. Still, many of the ships and men did well
in the war, though they never formed a single properly organized squadron.

British Privateers. Privateering was not a flourishing business in the mother country in 1812.
Prime seamen were scarce, owing to the great number needed in the Navy and in the mercantile
marine. Many, too, had deserted to get the higher wages paid in 'Yankees'--'dollars for shillings,'
as the saying went. Besides, there was little foreign trade left to prey on. Canadian privateers
did better. They were nearly all 'Bluenoses;' that is, they hailed from the Maritime Provinces.
During the three campaigns the Court of Vice-Admiralty at Halifax issued letters of marque
to forty-four privateers, which employed, including replacements, about three thousand men
and reported over two hundred prizes.

British Commissariat and Transport. Transport, of course, went chiefly by water. Reinforcements
and supplies from the mother country came out under convoy, mostly in summer, to Quebec, where
bulk was broken, and whence both men and goods were sent to the front. There were plenty of
experts in Canada to move goods west in ordinary times. The best of all were the French-Canadian
voyageurs who manned the boats of the Hudson's Bay and North-West Companies. But there were
not enough of them to carry on the work of peace and war together. Great and skilful efforts,
however, were made. Schooners, bateaux, boats, and canoes were all turned to good account.
But the inland line of communications was desperately long and difficult to work. It was more
than twelve hundred miles from Quebec to Amherstburg on the river Detroit, even by the shortest
route.

The British Army. The British Army, like the Navy, had to maintain an exacting world-wide service,
besides large contingents in the field, on resources which had been severely strained by twenty
years of war. It was represented in Canada by only a little over four thousand effective men
when the war began. Reinforcements at first came slowly and in small numbers. In 1813 some
foreign corps in British pay, like the Watteville and the Meuron regiments, came out. But in
1814 more than sixteen thousand men, mostly Peninsular veterans, arrived. Altogether, including
every man present in any part of Canada during the whole war, there were over twenty-five thousand
British regulars. In addition to these there were the troops invading the United States at
Washington and Baltimore, with the reinforcements that joined them for the attack on New Orleans--in
all, nearly nine thousand men. The grand total within the theatre of war was therefore about
thirty-four thousand.

The Canadian Regulars. The Canadian regulars were about four thousand strong. Another two thousand
took the place of men who were lost to the service, making the total six thousand, from first
to last. There were six corps raised for permanent service: the Royal Newfoundland Regiment,
the New Brunswick Regiment, the Canadian Fencibles, the Royal Veterans, the Canadian Voltigeurs,
and the Glengarry Light Infantry. The Glengarries were mostly Highland Roman Catholics who
had settled Glengarry county on the Ottawa, where Ontario marches with Quebec. The Voltigeurs
were French Canadians under a French-Canadian officer in the Imperial Army. In the other corps
there were many United Empire Loyalists from the different provinces, including a good stiffening
of old soldiers and their sons.

The Canadian Embodied Militia. The Canadian militia by law comprised every able-bodied man
except the few specially exempt, like the clergy and the judges. A hundred thousand adult males
were liable for service. Various causes, however, combined to prevent half of these from getting
under arms. Those who actually did duty were divided into 'Embodied' and 'Sedentary' corps.
The embodied militia consisted of picked men, drafted for special service; and they often approximated
so closely to the regulars in discipline and training that they may be classed, at the very
least, as semi-regulars. Counting all those who passed into the special reserve during the
war, as well as those who went to fill up the ranks after losses, there were nearly ten thousand
of these highly trained, semi-regular militiamen engaged in the war.

The Canadian Sedentary Militia. The 'Sedentaries' comprised the rest of the militia. The number
under arms fluctuated greatly; so did the length of time on duty. There were never ten thousand
employed at any one time all over the country. As a rule, the 'Sedentaries' did duty at the
base, thus releasing the better trained men for service at the front. Many had the blood of
soldiers in their veins; and nearly all had the priceless advantage of being kept in constant
touch with regulars. A passionate devotion to the cause also helped them to acquire, sooner
than most other men, both military knowledge and that true spirit of discipline which, after
all, is nothing but self-sacrifice in its finest patriotic form.

The Indians. Nearly all the Indians sided with the British or else remained neutral. They were,
however, a very uncertain force; and the total number that actually served at the front throughout
the war certainly fell short of five thousand.

This completes the estimate of the opposing forces-of the more than half a million Americans
against the hundred and twenty-five thousand British; with these great odds entirely reversed
whenever the comparison is made not between mere quantities of men but between their respective
degrees of discipline and training.

But it does not complete the comparison between the available resources of the two opponents
in one most important particular--finance. The Army Bill Act, passed at Quebec on August 1,
1812, was the greatest single financial event in the history of Canada. It was also full of
political significance; for the parliament of Lower Canada was overwhelmingly French-Canadian.
The million dollars authorized for issue, together with interest at six per cent, pledged that
province to the equivalent of four years' revenue. The risk was no light one. But it was nobly
run and well rewarded. These Army Bills were the first paper money in the whole New World that
never lost face value for a day, that paid all their statutory interest, and that were finally
redeemed at par. The denominations ran from one dollar up to four hundred dollars. Bills of
one, two, three, and four dollars could always be cashed at the Army Bill Office in Quebec.
After due notice the whole issue was redeemed in November 1816. A special feature well worth
noting is the fact that Army Bills sometimes commanded a premium of five per cent over gold
itself, because, being convertible into government bills of exchange on London, they were secure
against any fluctuations in the price of bullion. A special comparison well worth making is
that between their own remarkable stability and the equally remarkable instability of similar
instruments of finance in the United States, where, after vainly trying to help the government
through its difficulties, every bank outside of New England was forced to suspend specie payments
in 1814, the year of the Great Blockade.

CHAPTER III

1812: OFF TO THE FRONT

President Madison sent his message to Congress on the 1st of June and signed the resultant
'war bill' on the 18th following. Congress was as much divided as the nation on the question
of peace or war. The vote in the House of Representatives was seventy-nine to forty-nine, while
in the Senate it was nineteen to thirteen. The government itself was 'solid.' But it did little
enough to make up for the lack of national whole-heartedness by any efficiency of its own.
Madison was less zealous about the war than most of his party. He was no Pitt or Lincoln to
ride the storm, but a respectable lawyer-politician, whose forte was writing arguments, not
wielding his country's sword. Nor had he in his Cabinet a single statesman with a genius for
making war. His war secretary, William Eustis, never grasped the military situation at all,
and had to be replaced by John Armstrong after the egregious failures of the first campaign.
During the war debate in June, Eustis was asked to report to Congress how many of the 'additional'
twenty-five thousand men authorized in January had already been enlisted. The best answer he
could make was a purely 'unofficial opinion' that the number was believed to exceed five thousand.

The first move to the front was made by the Navy. Under very strong pressure the Cabinet had
given up the original idea of putting the ships under a glass case; and four days after the
declaration of war orders were sent to the senior naval officer, Commodore Rodgers, to 'protect
our returning commerce' by scattering his ships about the American coast just where the British
squadron at Halifax would be most likely to defeat them one by one. Happily for the United
States, these orders were too late. Rodgers had already sailed. He was a man of action. His
little squadron of three frigates, one sloop, and one brig lay in the port of New York, all
ready waiting for the word. And when news of the declaration arrived, he sailed within the
hour, and set out in pursuit of a British squadron that was convoying a fleet of merchantmen
from the West Indies to England. He missed the convoy, which worked into Liverpool, Bristol,
and London by getting to the north of him. But, for all that, his sudden dash into British
waters with an active, concentrated squadron produced an excellent effect. The third day out
the British frigate Belvidera met him and had to run for her life into Halifax. The news of
this American squadron's being at large spread alarm all over the routes between Canada and
the outside world. Rodgers turned south within a few hours' sail of the English Channel, turned
west off Madeira, gave Halifax a wide berth, and reached Boston ten weeks out from Sandy Hook.
'We have been so completely occupied in looking out for Commodore Rodgers,' wrote a British
naval officer, 'that we have taken very few prizes.' Even Madison was constrained to admit
that this offensive move had had the defensive results he had hoped to reach in his own 'defensive'
way. 'Our Trade has reached our ports, having been much favoured by a squadron under Commodore
Rodgers.'

The policy of squadron cruising was continued throughout the autumn and winter of 1812. There
were no squadron battles. But there was unity of purpose; and British convoys were harassed
all over the Atlantic till well on into the next year. During this period there were five famous
duels, which have made the Constitution and the United States, the Hornet and the Wasp, four
names to conjure with wherever the Stars and Stripes are flown. The Constitution fought the
first, when she took the Guerriere in August, due east of Boston and south of Newfoundland.
The Wasp won the second in September, by taking the Frolic half-way between Halifax and Bermuda.
The United States won the third in October, by defeating the Macedonian south-west of Madeira.
The Constitution won the fourth in December, off Bahia in Brazil, by defeating the Java. And
the Hornet won the fifth in February, by taking the Peacock, off Demerara, on the coast of
British Guiana.

This closed the first period of the war at sea. The British government had been so anxious
to avoid war, and to patch up peace again after war had broken out, that they purposely refrained
from putting forth their full available naval strength till 1813. At the same time, they would
naturally have preferred victory to defeat; and the fact that most of the British Navy was
engaged elsewhere, and that what was available was partly held in leash, by no means dims the
glory of those four men-of-war which the Americans fought with so much bravery and skill, and
with such well-deserved success. No wonder Wellington said peace with the United States would
be worth having at any honourable price, 'if we could only take some of their damned frigates!'
Peace was not to come for another eighteen months. But though the Americans won a few more
duels out at sea, besides two annihilating flotilla victories on the Lakes, their coast was
blockaded as completely as Napoleon's, once the British Navy had begun its concerted movements
on a comprehensive scale. From that time forward the British began to win the naval war, although
they won no battles and only one duel that has lived in history. This dramatic duel, fought
between the Shannon and the Chesapeake on June 1, 1813, was not itself a more decisive victory
for the British than previous frigate duels had been for the Americans. But it serves better
than any other special event to mark the change from the first period, when the Americans roved
the sea as conquerors, to the second, when they were gradually blockaded into utter impotence.

Having now followed the thread of naval events to a point beyond the other limits of this chapter,
we must return to the American movements against the Canadian frontier and the British counter-movements
intended to checkmate them.

Quebec and Halifax, the two great Canadian seaports, were safe from immediate American attack;
though Quebec was the ultimate objective of the Americans all through the war. But the frontier
west of Quebec offered several tempting chances for a vigorous invasion, if the American naval
and military forces could only be made to work together. The whole life of Canada there depended
absolutely on her inland waterways. If the Americans could cut the line of the St Lawrence
and Great Lakes at any critical point, the British would lose everything to the west of it;
and there were several critical points of connection along this line. St Joseph's Island, commanding
the straits between Lake Superior and Lake Huron, was a vital point of contact with all the
Indians to the west. It was the British counterpoise to the American post at Michilimackinac,
which commanded the straits between Lake Huron and Lake Michigan. Detroit commanded the waterway
between Lake Huron and Lake Erie; while the command of the Niagara peninsula ensured the connection
between Lake Erie and Lake Ontario. At the head of the St Lawrence, guarding the entrance to
Lake Ontario, stood Kingston. Montreal was an important station midway between Kingston and
Quebec, besides being an excellent base for an army thrown forward against the American frontier.
Quebec was the general base from which all the British forces were directed and supplied.

Quick work, by water and land together, was essential for American success before the winter,
even if the Canadians were really so anxious to change their own flag for the Stars and Stripes.
But the American government put the cart before the horse--the Army before the Navy--and weakened
the military forces of invasion by dividing them into two independent commands. General Henry
Dearborn was appointed commander-in-chief, but only with control over the north-eastern country,
that is, New England and New York. Thirty years earlier Dearborn had served in the War of Independence
as a junior officer; and he had been Jefferson's Secretary of War. Yet he was not much better
trained as a leader than his raw men were as followers, and he was now sixty-one. He established
his headquarters at Greenbush, nearly opposite Albany, so that he could advance on Montreal
by the line of the Hudson, Lake Champlain, and the Richelieu. The intended advance, however,
did not take place this year. Greenbush was rather a recruiting depot and camp of instruction
than the base of an army in the field; and the actual campaign had hardly begun before the
troops went into winter quarters. The commander of the north-western army was General William
Hull. And his headquarters were to be Detroit, from which Upper Canada was to be quickly overrun
without troubling about the co-operation of the Navy. Like Dearborn, Hull had served in the
War of Independence. But he had been a civilian ever since; he was now fifty-nine; and his
only apparent qualification was his having been governor of Michigan for seven years.

To complete the dispersion of force, Eustis forgot all about the military detachments at the
western forts. Fort Dearborn (now Chicago) and Michilimackinac, important as points of connection
with the western tribes, were left to the devices of their own inadequate garrisons. In 1801
Dearborn himself, Eustis's predecessor as Secretary of War, had recommended a peace strength
of two hundred men at Michilimackinac, usually known as 'Mackinaw.' In 1812 there were not
so many at Mackinaw and Chicago put together.

It was not a promising outlook to an American military eye--the cart before the horse, the
thick end of the wedge turned towards the enemy, three incompetent men giving disconnected
orders on the northern frontier, and the western posts neglected. But Eustis was full of self-confidence.
Hull was 'enthusing' his militiamen. And Dearborn was for the moment surpassing both, by proposing
to 'operate, with effect, at the same moment, against Niagara, Kingston, and Montreal.'

From the Canadian side the outlook was also dark enough to the trained eye; though not for
the same reasons. The menace here was from an enemy whose general resources exceeded those
in Canada by almost twenty to one. The silver lining to the cloud was the ubiquitous British
Navy and the superior training and discipline of the various little military forces immediately
available for defence.

The Maritime Provinces formed a subordinate command, based on the strong naval station of Halifax,
where a regular garrison was always maintained by the Imperial government. They were never
invaded, or even seriously threatened. It was only in 1814 that they came directly into the
scene of action, and then only as the base from which the invasion of Maine was carried out.

We must therefore turn to Quebec as the real centre of Canadian defence, which, indeed, it
was best fitted to be, not only from its strategical situation, but from the fact that it was
the seat of the governor-general and commander-in-chief, Sir George Prevost. Like Sir John
Sherbrooke, the governor of Nova Scotia, Prevost was a professional soldier with an unblemished
record in the Army. But, though naturally anxious to do well, and though very suavely diplomatic,
he was not the man, as we shall often see, either to face a military crisis or to stop the
Americans from stealing marches on him by negotiation. On the outbreak of war he was at headquarters
in Quebec, dividing his time between his civil and military duties, greatly concerned with
international diplomacy, and always full of caution.

At York (now Toronto) in Upper Canada a very different man was meanwhile preparing to checkmate
Hull's 'north-western army' of Americans, which was threatening to invade the province. Isaac
Brock was not only a soldier born and bred, but, alone among the leaders on either side, he
had the priceless gift of genius. He was now forty-two, having been born in Guernsey on October
6, 1769, in the same year as Napoleon and Wellington. Like the Wolfes and the Montcalms, the
Brocks had followed the noble profession of arms for many generations. Nor were the De Lisles,
his mother's family, less distinguished for the number of soldiers and sailors they had been
giving to England ever since the Norman Conquest. Brock himself, when only twenty-nine, had
commanded the 49th Foot in Holland under Sir John Moore, the future hero of Corunna, and Sir
Ralph Abercromby, who was so soon to fall victorious in Egypt. Two years after this he had
stood beside another and still greater man at Copenhagen, 'mighty Nelson,' who there gave a
striking instance of how a subordinate inspired by genius can win the day by disregarding the
over-caution of a commonplace superior. We may be sure that when Nelson turned his blind eye
on Parker's signal of recall the lesson was not thrown away on Brock.

For ten long years of inglorious peace Brock had now been serving on in Canada, while his comrades
in arms were winning distinction on the battlefields of Europe. This was partly due to his
own excellence: he was too good a man to be spared after his first five years were up in 1807;
for the era of American hostility had then begun. He had always been observant. But after 1807
he had redoubled his efforts to 'learn Canada,' and learn her thoroughly. People and natural
resources, products and means of transport, armed strength on both sides of the line and the
best plan of defence, all were studied with unremitting zeal. In 1811 he became the acting
lieutenant-governor and commander of the forces in Upper Canada, where he soon found out that
the members of parliament returned by the 'American vote' were bent on thwarting every effort
he could make to prepare the province against the impending storm. In 1812, on the very day
he heard that war had been declared, he wished to strike the unready Americans hard and instantly
at one of their three accessible points of assembly-Fort Niagara, at the upper end of Lake
Ontario, opposite Fort George, which stood on the other side of the Niagara river; Sackett's
Harbour, at the lower end of Lake Ontario, thirty-six miles from Kingston; and Ogdensburg,
on the upper St Lawrence, opposite Fort Prescott. But Sir George Prevost, the governor-general,
was averse from an open act of war against the Northern States, because they were hostile to
Napoleon and in favour of maintaining peace with the British; while Brock himself was soon
turned from this purpose by news of Hull's American invasion farther west, as well as by the
necessity of assembling his own thwarting little parliament at York.

