"No.  You are telling me a pleasant fairy tale of a love-lorn knight searching the wilderness
for his lost mistress.  A moving tale, monsieur, but not the true one.  I want the real story.
The story of the English spy who wishes to ransom his cousin, but who also treats secretly
with the Hurons,--who treats with Pemaou, monsieur.  Tell me his story."

His face did not alter.  "You believe me a spy?"

"I have reason, monsieur."

Still he regarded me.  "You might be right, but you are not.  Monsieur, I am a broken man.
I want nothing but my cousin.  If there is intrigue around me I do not know it.  I am telling
you the truth."

I fought hard against the man's fascination, his splendid, ruined pomp. "You must have a code,"
I burst out.  "There must be something you hold dear.  Will you swear to me by the name of
the woman that you have not had secret dealings with the Hurons?"

"I swear."

"But the profile that the Huron carried!"

"Those pictures I scattered broadcast.  You will find them among the Algonquins, and the Ottawas
of the upper river.  My cousin has a distinctive profile.  I offered rewards for news of any
one--man or woman--who looked like the face that I had drawn."

I put out my hand.  "I hope that I have wronged you, monsieur."

He bowed and touched my fingers.  His own were icy, yet he shivered at the chill of mine. 
"Pemaou would not dare harm the woman.  Monsieur de Montlivet, you know Indians.  Surely Pemaou
would not dare?"

I gripped my knife.  "No man knows Indians!  Where did you see Pemaou first?"

"At Michillimackinac.  When I reached there and learned that the prisoner had gone with you
I sent interpreters through the camps with offers of reward for news of your whereabouts. 
Pemaou came.  He said he could locate you and I took him as guide."

"He selected his own escort?"

"Yes."

"And you traveled slowly?"

"Very slowly."

I fingered my pipe and bit hard at its stem.  "Pemaou has played carefully.  He had the woman
captured and brought to camp.  The time was not ripe for him to use her, so he let me carry
her away.  But he has had me shadowed.  You played well into his hands, for you furnished blankets
and provisions.  He had no intention of letting you find us. We are equal dupes.  I see that
I wronged you, monsieur."

He looked down, his breath laboring.  I could look at him now without recoil, for a common
humiliation bound us.  We were white and we had been tricked by a savage.  We sat in heavy silence.

At last Starling spoke dully.  "Why did Pemaou wait so long?"

I gripped my knife the closer.  "That we shall learn when we learn what he has done with the
woman."

He looked up with his jaw shaking.  "Monsieur, we must make haste."

But I shook my head.  "Monsieur, no.  We must await Pierre."

The fog was withdrawing.  It was noon, and I rose and made ready a grave for Simon.  I chose
a spot under a pine where I had seen the woman sit, and I dug deep as my crude implements would
permit.  Then I piled stones on the mound.  The Englishman helped me, and together we said
a prayer.  We did not comment till our work was over.  Then Starling looked down at the mound.

"I wonder why he was killed?  The others surrendered."

I shrugged a trifle bitterly.  "He loved the woman.  It was not her fault.  I doubt that she
knew it, and she could not help it.  But it cost him his life, for it made him attempt to carry
a forlorn hope. And she never even knew.  It is suicide to love a woman hopelessly, monsieur."

It was hideous when we went back to our seats by the ashes.  The sun had come out hot and nauseating,
and the flies buzzed horribly.  We tried to crowd down food, but we could not swallow.  We
sat and chewed on our despairing thoughts, and hate that was a compound of physical faintness
and sick uncertainty rose between us.

The Englishman took a miniature from his pocket and handed it to me.

"She gave it to me herself," he said.  "With laughter and with kisses, monsieur."

I tried to wave the picture away, but I had not strength to resist looking.  It was no profile
that I saw.  The brown eyes looked full in mine; merry eyes, challenging, fun-crowded, innocent.
There were no sombre shadows there.  There was spirit in plenty, but no sorrow. White shoulders
rose from clouds of pink gauze, and the hair was powdered and pearl-wreathed and piled high
in a coronet.  It was not the face of the woman that I knew.  I said so, and returned the portrait
to the Englishman.

He could not resist baiting me.  "You do not like it, monsieur?"

I shook my head.  "It is nothing to me.  It is the face of a laughing, trusting, untouched
girl.  I have never seen her."

"You say that you married her."

"Monsieur, this is a girl.  I married a woman, a woman matured by tragedy.  The eyes that are
laughing in this portrait are wiser now. They have seen the depths of a man's treachery.  But
they have not lost their spirit, no, nor their tenderness, monsieur.  You will find little
that you recognize in the woman who is now my wife."

He kept his composure.  "You use the word 'wife' very glibly," he said, with a yawn.  "Do you
use it when the lady is within hearing, as you do now?"

"She is my wife."

He laughed, for he saw he had drawn blood.  "Your wife in name, perhaps,--I grant you that,--but
not in fact.  Do you think me blind that I should not see the two cabins.  And you said that
you had never crossed the threshold of the woman's room.  I see that I shall find my cousin
the maiden that I left her, monsieur."

I kept my lips closed.  He had indeed drawn blood.  I could not answer. He leaned forward and
tapped a significant forefinger on my knee.

"Remember, she has kissed me, monsieur.  She has kissed me often of her own will."

And then my spirit did return.  "That does not concern me."

He lifted his great lip.  "You are indulgent."

The flies buzzed odiously.  The Englishman was gloating over me, his great head craned forward
like a buzzard's.  My brain took fire.

"I am not indulgent," I said slowly, with my throat dry.  "I am wise. She has kissed you, yes.
I have no doubt that she has kissed you many times, casually, lightly, indifferently.  She
brushed the plumage of her falcon in the same way.  You are welcome to the memory of those
kisses, my lord.  You may have more like them in the future, and I shall not say you nay. 
They mean nothing."

He scowled at me.  "What do you know of her kisses?" he said under his breath.

I looked him in the eye.  "I know this.  There is but one kiss that means anything from a woman,
and she gives it, if she is the right kind of a woman, to but one man in her life.  For the
rest,--I value them no more than the brush of her finger-tips.  Tell me, have you felt her
lips pressed to yours till her breath and her soul were one with you? Tell me that.  Answer,
I say."

I had let the cord of reason and decency slip.  I rose, and I think that the hate in my face
must have been wolfish, for the man drew back. He tried to look contemptuous, but I saw fear
in his eyes.  Fear and something more,--a sudden pain and longing.  The emotion that heretofore
he had kept well in hand trapped him for the moment.  I was answered.  The woman might never
be mine, but she had never been his, either.  I turned away.  I was triumphant, but I loathed
myself.  I was sick with the situation, and the man who had brought me to it.

"You may keep your kisses, monsieur," I said savagely.  "You may keep them.  But if you mention
them to me again I shall throttle you where you stand."

The Englishman had felt the revulsion, and he showed no resentment of my heat.  He heaved himself
up in the hot, horrible sunshine and rubbed his hands as if washing them free.

"We are curs," he said quietly.

I could not say nay.  "We must eat," I cautioned; "we must eat, and keep ourselves sane.  If
we can get through this day without murder or worse, we shall have work to do from now on that
will serve to keep our heads clear.  Pierre will be coming soon now."

Starling was regarding me keenly.  "You lose your temper, and therefore you should be easy
to read," he said reflectively.  "But you are not. You evidently married my cousin for convenience.
I can understand the situation.  But you stand by your bargain well.  You have the honor of
your name somewhat sensitively at heart.  But if you had not married her----  If there were
no compulsion, no outside reason--tell me, would you marry her now?"

But that I left unanswered.

CHAPTER XXI

THE PIVOT

Pierre came at five o'clock.  He was keen for the approaching supper hour and came jovially.

I was sick with haste, and deep sunk in my own grief, so I was cruel and a fool; I plumped
the facts at him without a softening word.  And so I frustrated my own ends.  The great, slow
creature cowered and grew dumb under my story.  Then he went, great-eyed and hanging-lipped,
from cabin to cabin.  I had locked up his springs of word and thought.

But one thing my sword and my words prodded out of him.  He had come by the portage path from
the east, and had seen no marks of passage that were less than a week old.  Our star led west.

I baled what provision and ammunition we needed, loaded the canoes, and cached the furs and
the balance of the stores at the edge of the forest.  At six o'clock we were afloat.  I led
the way, and Pierre followed with the Englishman.  This gave me space to think in silence.

The sun sank red and clear, and we paddled from a colored dusk to a clear starlight.  I knew
this dimly, as the lost in the inferno know the barred joys above them.  Unless we found Pemaou
within the next few hours I should never be one with the loveliness of nature again.

I held my way due west to the Malhominis.  I could secure their cooperation, if nothing more.
Pierre followed at a canoe length, and we traveled unbrokenly.  It was an hour short of midnight
when we saw the west shore.  I could take no bearings in the dim light, so we nosed along,
uncertain whether to go north or south to find the mouth of the Wild Rice River where the Malhominis
had their home.  We held a short colloquy and started northward.  Suddenly Pierre shot his
canoe beside my own.

"A camp!" he breathed in a giant whisper.

I suspended my paddle.  On the shore to the north of us were lights. It could not be the Malhominis,
for they lived inland; it was not Pemaou, for the camp was many times larger than his would
be.  It was probably a hunting party.  All the western tribes were friendly; more, they were
my allies.  I saw no necessity for caution.  I raised a long halloo, and our canoes raced toward
the lights.

We landed in a medley.  Indians sprang from the squatting groups around the fire and ran to
meet us.  They were black shapes that I could not recognize.  I leaped from my canoe and held
up my hand in greeting. But an arm reached out and tore my musket from me.  I looked up.  A
leering Iroquois stood over me.

I dropped my arms and stood passive.  A look over my shoulder told me that Pierre and Starling
had been seized and were fighting well.

"Caution!" I called.  "Do not resist.  Watch me."

"Where are we?  What does it mean?" Starling called back.  His voice was shaking.

I held out my arms to be bound.  "The Iroquois!" I shouted to Pierre in dialect.  "I did not
know there were any within a thousand miles.  Keep steady.  Follow me.  We may find Pemaou here."

The Indians bound us systematically, but without undue elation, so that I judged that they
had many captives.  They were Senecas and had the look of picked men.  I understood their speech,
but beyond ribald jests at our expense they said nothing.  It was all swift, unreal.  Owls
hooted in the woods and dogs snarled at us.  The groups that remained by the fire peered in
our direction, but were too lethargic to come near.  I tried for a word with Starling.  I feared
for his spirit.

"They are Senecas," I managed to say to him; "the most diplomatic nation of the Iroquois league.
They will not butcher us without consideration.  Keep cool."

He nodded with some patronage.  He looked impressive, unshaken; yet the moment before he had
been terror-stricken.  I saw that I did not understand him, after all.

Having bound us, our captors raised a shout and shouldered us toward the camp.  A young brave
capered before us, beating his breast and singing.  The braves by the fire took up the cry.

And so we were pushed into the circle of flaming light.  The Indians crowded to us, and pressed
their oily, grinning faces so near that I felt their breath.  I stumbled over refuse, and dirt-crusted
dogs blocked my way.  The mangled carcass of a deer lay on the ground, and the stench of fresh
blood mingled with the reek of the camp.  Yet I saw only one thing clearly.  In the midst of
it stood the woman and Singing Arrow.

My relief caught at my throat, and the cry I gave was hoarse and strangled.  But the woman
heard it.  My first look had shown me not only that she was unharmed, but that she was undaunted,
that she stood white-faced in all the grime, and held herself above it, a thing of spirit that
soil could not reach.  Yet when she saw me, the cry that came from her in answer changed her
from an effigy to something so warm and living that I forgot where I stood, and stopped my
breath to hold her gaze to mine, and drink the moment to the full.  We stood with captivity
between us and torture at our elbow, but the woman looked only at me, and her lips grew red
and tremulous, and her breath came fast.  "You are safe.  You are safe."  I heard the words
even among the babel, and I pulled like a wild animal at my bonds to free myself and reach
her side.

But I was held fast, and while I struggled came a mighty cry from behind me, "Mary!  Mary!
Mary!"  Starling's Goliath frame pushed by me, and his captors were hurled like pygmies to
each side.

The woman was unprepared.  She cried at sight of him with a deep throaty terror that sent the
blood to my brain.  Starling would have pressed himself to her, but she put out her unbound
arms and fended him away.  And then he stood with his great height bowed and pleaded to her.
I had shrugged at the English for their hard reserve, but when I heard this man I learned again
that it is always the dammed torrent that is to be feared.  Even the Indians heard in silence.

The silence lasted.  Never before nor since have I known savages to take the background and
let two whites play out a tragedy unchecked. But now they formed a ring and watched.  They
forgot their interest in me and let me go.  I could stand unheeded.  An old man threw tinder
on the fire, and we saw each other's faces as in the searching, red light of a storm.  I watched
the cords in Starling's neck tighten and relax as he talked on and on.

The drama was in pantomime to me, as to the Indians, for the cousins spoke in English.  But
I could understand the woman's face.  She spoke in monosyllables, but I could have pitied any
other man for the gulf she put between them by her look.  She was more than scornful; torn
and disheveled as she was, she was cruelly radiant, her eyes black-lined and her lips hard.
She was unassailable.  And when she met her kinsman's eye I gloried in her till I could have
laid my cheek on the ground at her feet.

It was plain they were kinsmen.  I had marked the strange blood resemblance between them when
I first saw the man, and it was doubly to be noted now.  It was blood against blood as they
faced each other. And it came to me that it was more than a personal duel.  No wrong is so
unforgivable as one from our own family whose secret weaknesses we know and share, and I felt
that the repulsion in the woman's eyes was part for herself and part for her pride of race.
Yet I was uncertain of the issue.  The tie of blood is strong, and after a few minutes I thought
that Starling was gaining ground.  His great personality enwrapped us all, and his strange,
compelling voice went on and on and on, pleading, pleading in a tongue that I could not understand.
His eyes never left the woman's, and in time hers fell.  I tried to clench my bound hands,
for my pride in her was hurt; yet I could understand his power.

It was just then that the savages wearied of the spectacle and hustled Starling away.  They
saw that he was English, and they unbound his arms, and began to take counsel concerning him.
In a flash I saw my path clear.  They were friendly to the English.  The woman was English.
I must not let her identify herself with me.  And so when her glance crept back to me, I was
prepared.  I would not stop to read what her look might say.  I shook my head at her and dropped
my eyes.  I made the same signal to Singing Arrow.  The Indian would understand my motive;
I could not be sure about the woman.

And then I turned and mingled with the crowd, with my heart beating strangely but my brain
cool.  The interest was centring in Starling, and the older men had their calumets in hand
and were preparing for the council.  I saw that for a few hours at least I should have life
and semi-liberty.  There was no possibility of my escape, so, bound as I was, I was free to
wander within limits.  I would keep as near the women as possible and try and herd my faction
together.

I had been too absorbed to use my eyes, but now I saw that a captive was lying near my feet.
He was closely tied on two pieces of rough wood shaped like a St. Andrew's cross, and was a
hideous sight with his tongue protruding and his eyes beginning to glaze.  Dogs were scrambling
and tearing at him, and I edged nearer and tried to drive them away.  I examined him as closely
as I dared, and judged by the dressing of his long hair that he was a Miami.  In that case
the war party must have come from the south by way of the Ohio and the Illinois country, and
they were probably working their way north to reach Michillimackinac on its unguarded side.
I saw it was a war party, for there were no women with them, and the Iroquois carry their families
on all hunting trips.

I looked at the dying man and wished for my knife.  So they tortured Indian captives while
they let me, a Frenchman, go lightly bound. Well, my turn was yet to come.  My white skin probably
gave me importance enough so that I would be referred to the council.  I would not look ahead.
I would plan for the moment, and open eyes and ears.

There were many captives, I saw now, and my anxiety for Leclerc and Labarthe grew keen.  I
made my slow way around the bound figures.  Some were pegged to the ground by their out-stretched
hands and feet, and some were stretched on crosses.  But all were Indians.  I saw more Miamis,
a few Kickapoos, and some whom I did not know; I learned later that they were Mascoutens. 
And then I saw Labarthe.  He was tied to a tree, Leclerc beside him.  Leclerc, who was ever
a fool, would have motioned to me, but Labarthe struck down his arm and gave a blank stare.
So I was able to get near them.  They looked blood-stained and jaded, but practically unhurt,
and I saw a half-eaten chunk of meat in Leclerc's hand.  They had been fed and reasonably well
treated.  But that meant nothing as guide to what might come.

I had not made my way alone.  Starling was the chief attraction, but I, too, was the centre
of a curious, chaffering crowd.  The braves were unwontedly good-humored, childishly pleased
with the evening's excitement, and I amused them still further by shrugging at them and making
great faces of contempt.  When one offered me a meal cake I kicked at him and trampled the
food into the ground, and as I swaggered away I heard him tell the others that I was a bear
for courage.  I could have smiled at that, for I was acting more like a blustering terrier
than any nobler animal, but I would not let them see that I understood their tongue.

And so I pushed my way about.  But wherever I went, or whatever else my eyes were doing, I
kept watch upon the woman.  She stood quiet with Singing Arrow and waited for what might come.
Her fate was hanging with Starling's at the council ring, and I knew that I must keep away
from her.  That was not easy.  Each time that I let my glance rest upon the foulness of the
camp I felt that I must go to her and blind her eyes.  But I never made more than one step.
I had only to look at her to understand that her spirit had learned in these months to hold
itself above the body.  What was passing did not touch her; she lived in the fortress of her
splendidly garrisoned pride.  Singing Arrow stood equally aloof, intrenched in her stoicism,
but I think the root motives of the two were different, though the outside index was the same.
Indeed, we all had different wellsprings for our composure. Pierre's stolidity was largely
training.  Starling's quiet might mean instinctive imitation, but I feared it was something
more sinister. While mine----  But I had no composure.  I swaggered and shrugged and played
harlequin and boaster.

We were soon to learn that Starling's quiet was not impervious.  I saw him start.  His hand
flew to where his knife had been, and his teeth showed like a jackal's.  A figure that had
lain, blanket-shrouded in the shadow, had risen and come forward.  It was Pemaou.  He had pleased
his humor by being an unseen auditor and letting us play out our various forms of resistance
and despair for his delight.  Now he would make a dramatic entry.  He was dressed for the part
in a loin cloth, a high laced hat of scarlet, and the boots of a captain of dragoons.  He stopped
before Starling and grinned silently.  Then he held his hat, French fashion, and made a derisive
bow.  The Englishman forgot his dignity and cursed.  I wished that I had been near enough to
hold up a warning hand.

I knew my turn was next, so was prepared.  Pemaou sought me, and stood before me, but I would
not see him; I looked through him as through glass.  He spoke to me in French, but I was deaf.
I heard the Senecas grunt with amusement.

Pemaou heard it too, and his war plume quivered.  He gave an order in Huron, and one of his
men came behind me and unbound my hands.  I could have jeered at the childishness of his open
purpose.  He hoped that, with my hands free, I would spring at him, impotent and vengeful as
a caged rattlesnake, and that then he could turn me over to the sport and torture of the mob.
I stretched my freed arms, laughed to myself, and turned away.  My laugh was genuine.  It was
wine to me that he should have shown weakness in this fashion, when in some ways he had proved
himself a better general than I.  It was a small victory, but it cheered me.

I do not know how long the council lasted, but it seemed hours.  The old men rose at last,
and going to Starling, patted him, grunted over him, and examined him.  I could not hear what
they said, but it was evidently pacific; they led him off in the direction of the largest lodge.

