As this election was for a legislature, the validity of which was contested, the committee
took great pains to procure testimony as to the election in each election district.  The election
in the second district is a fair specimen.  In that district, on the morning of the election,
the judges appointed by the governor appeared and opened the polls.  Their names were Harrison
Burson, Nathaniel Ramsay and Mr. Ellison.  The Missourians began to arrive early in the morning,
some 500 or 600 of them in wagons and carriages and on horseback, and under the lead of Samuel
J. Jones, then postmaster of Westport, Missouri; Claiborne F. Jackson and a Mr. Steeley, of
Independence, Missouri.  They were armed with double- barreled guns, rifles, bowie-knives and
pistols, and had flags hoisted.  They held a sort of informal election off at one side, at
first for governor of Kansas Territory, and shortly afterwards announced Thomas Johnson, of
Shawnee Mission, elected governor. The polls had been opened but a short time when Mr. Jones
marched with the crowd up to the window and demanded that they be allowed to vote, without
swearing as to their residence.  After some noisy and threatening talk, Claiborne F. Jackson
addressed the crowd, saying that they had come there to vote; that they had a right to vote
if they had been there but five minutes, and he was not willing to go home without voting;
this was received with cheers.  Jackson then called upon them to form into little bands of
fifteen or twenty, which they did, and went to an ox-wagon filled with guns, which were distributed
among them, and proceeded to load some of them on the ground.  In pursuance of Jackson's request,
they tied white tape or ribbons in their button holes, so as to distinguish them from the "Abolitionists."
They again demanded that the judges resign.  Upon their refusing to do so they smashed in the
window, sash and all, presented their pistols and guns, and at the same time threatened to
shoot.  Some one on the outside cried out not to shoot, as there were pro-slavery men in the
house with the judges.  They then put a pry under the corner of the house, which was built
of logs, lifted it up a few inches, and let it fall again, but desisted upon being again told
that there were pro-slavery men in the house.  During this time the crowd repeatedly demanded
to be allowed to vote without being sworn, and Mr. Ellison, one of the judges, expressed himself
willing, but the other two judges refused; thereupon a body of men, headed by Sheriff Jones,
rushed into the judges' room with cocked pistols and drawn bowie-knives in their hands, and
approached Burson and Ramsay.  Jones pulled out his watch and said he would given them five
minutes to resign in, or die.  When the five minutes had expired and the judges had not resigned,
Jones now said he would given them another minute and no more.  Ellison told his associates
that if they did not resign there would be one hundred shots fired in the room in less than
fifteen minutes, and then snatching up the ballot-box ran out into the crowd, holding up the
ballot-box and hurrahing for Missouri. About that time Burson and Ramsay were called out by
their friends, and not suffered to return.  As Mr. Burson went out he put the ballot poll-books
in his pocket and took them with him, and as he was going out Jones snatched some papers away
from him, and shortly afterwards came out himself, holding them up, crying, "Hurrah for Missouri!"
After he discovered they were not the poll-books he took a party of men with him and captured
the books from a Mr. Umberger, to whom Burson had given them.  They then chose two new judges
and proceeded with the election.  They also threatened to kill the judges if they did not receive
their votes, or resign. They said no man should vote who would submit to be sworn; that they
would kill any man who would offer to do so.  Some of the citizens who were about the window,
but had not voted when the crowd of Missourians marched up, upon attempting to vote were driven
back by the mob, or driven off.  One of them, Mr. I. M. Mace, was asked if he would take the
oath, and upon his replying that he would if the judges required it, he was dragged through
the crowd away from the polls, amid cries of "kill the damned nigger-thief," "cut his throat,"
"tear his heart out," etc.  After they got into the outside of the crowd they stood around
him with cocked revolvers and drawn bowie-knives, one man putting a knife to his breast to
that it touched him, another holding a cocked pistol to his ear, while another struck at him
with a club.

The Missourians declared that they had a right to vote, if they had been in the territory but
five minutes.  Some said they had been hired to come there and vote, and got a dollar a day,
"and by God they would vote or die there."  They said the 30th day of March was an important
day, as Kansas would be made a slave state on that day.  They began to leave in the direction
of Missouri in the afternoon, after they had voted, leaving some thirty or forty around the
house where the election was held, to guard the polls till after the election was over.  The
citizens of the territory were not armed, except those who took part in the mob, and a large
portion of them did not vote.  Three hundred and forty-one votes were polled there that day,
of which but some thirty were citizens. A protest against the election was prepared and sent
to the governor.

A similarly organized and conducted election was held in each of the other districts of the
territory, varying only in degrees of fraud and violence.  In the fifteenth district it was
proven that several hundred Missourians appeared and voted.  Several speeches were made at
the polls, and among those who spoke was Major Oliver, one of our committee.  He urged all
persons to use no harsh words and expressed a hope that nothing would be said or done to wound
the feelings of the most sensitive on the other side, giving some reasons, based on the Missouri
Compromise, why they should vote, but he himself did not vote.  The whole number of votes cast
in that district was 417.  The number of legal voters was about 80. Of the names on the poll-book
but 62 were on the census roll.  But a small portion, estimated at one-fourth of the legal
voters, voted.

The validity of the so called pro-slavery legislature rested upon this election.  It is hardly
necessary at this late day to say that such a legislative body could not rightly assume or
lawfully exercise legislative functions over any law-abiding community.  Their enactments were,
by every principle of law and right, null and void.  The existence of fraud at the election
was admitted by every one, but it was defended on the ground that the New England Emigrant
Aid Society had imported a great number of emigrants into Kansas for the sole purpose of making
that territory a free state.  This claim was thoroughly investigated and the organization and
history of the society examined.  The only persons who emigrated into the territory under the
auspices of this company in 1855, prior to the election in March, was a party of 169 persons
who came under the charge of Charles Robinson, and of whom sixty-seven were women and children.
They came as actual settlers, intending to make their homes in the territory, and for no other
purpose.  Some of them returned, but most of them became settlers.  A few voted at the election
in Lawrence but the number was small.  The names of these emigrants were ascertained and thirty-seven
of them were found upon the poll-books.  This company of peaceful emigrants, moving with their
household goods, was distorted into an invading horde of pauper Abolitionists, who were, with
others of a similar character, to control the domestic institutions of the territory, and then
overturn those of a neighboring state.

The invasion of March 30 left both parties in a state of excitement, tending directly to produce
violence.  The successful party was lawless and reckless, while assuming the name of the "Law
and Order" party.  The Free State party, at first surprised and confounded, was greatly irritated,
but soon resolved to prevent the success of the invasion.  In some districts, protests were
sent to the governor; in others such action was prevented by threats, in others by want of
time, and in others by the belief that a new election would bring a new invasion.  About the
same time, all classes of men commenced carrying deadly weapons about their persons.  Under
these circumstances, a slight or accidental quarrel produced unusual violence.  Lawless acts
became frequent and passed unpunished. This unhappy condition of the public mind was further
increased by acts of violence in western Missouri, where, in April, a newspaper, called the
"Parkville Luminary," was destroyed by a mob, and numerous acts of violence and homicides committed.
Some innocent persons were unlawfully arrested and others ordered to leave the territory. The
first one notified to leave was William Phillips, a lawyer of Leavenworth, and upon his refusal
the mob forcibly seized him, took him across the river, carried him several miles into Missouri,
and then tarred and feathered him, shaving one side of his head and committing other gross
indignities upon his person.  Judge Lecompte, chief justice of the territory, Colonel L. N.
Burns, of Weston, Missouri, and others, took part in and made speeches at a bitterly partisan
meeting, the tendency of which was to produce violence and disorder.

After the most careful examination of the poll-books and the testimony taken, we were convinced
beyond all doubt that the election of the 30th of March, 1855, was utterly void.  It was the
result of an organized invasion from the State of Missouri, a lawless seizure of the conduct
of the election, and the open voting by thousands of persons who neither resided in nor pretended
to be residents of Kansas.  Not content with voting they made false returns of votes never
cast, and excluded legal voters because they were "Abolitionists."

A more wanton and shameless overthrow of popular rights cannot be found in history.

The so-called legislative assembly, thus elected, met at Pawnee, on the 2nd of July, 1855.
It attempted to make laws for Kansas, and to that end adopted, in substance, the laws of the
State of Missouri in gross as the laws for the territory, but, to retain its power, it provided
that every officer of the territory, executive and judicial, was to be appointed by the legislature,
or by some officer appointed by it.

The legality of this legislature was denied by the great majority of the people who never acquiesced
in or obeyed its enactments, thus taking the only course open to them to secure a lawful government.

While the alleged legislative assembly was in session, a movement was instituted to form a
state government, and apply for admission into the Union as a state.  The first step taken
by the people of the territory, in consequence of the invasion of March 30, 1855, was the circulation,
for signature, of a graphic and truthful memorial to Congress.  Every allegation in this memorial
was sustained by the testimony.  No further step was taken, as it was hoped that some action
by the general government would protect them in their rights.  When the alleged legislative
assembly proceeded to construct the series of enactments referred to, the settlers were of
the opinion that submission to them would result in entirely depriving them of the rights secured
to them by the organic law.

Their political condition was freely discussed in the territory during the summer of 1855.
Several meetings were held in reference to holding a convention to form a state government,
and to apply for admission into the Union as a state.  Public opinion gradually settled in
favor of such an application to the Congress to meet in December, 1855.  The first general
meeting was held at Lawrence, on the 15th of August, 1855.  Other meetings were held in various
parts of the territory, which indorsed the action of the Lawrence meeting, and delegates were
selected in compliance with its recommendation.  An election was called by a proclamation addressed
to the legal voters of Kansas, requesting them to meet at their several precincts at the time
and places named in the proclamation, then and there to cast their ballots for members of a
constitutional convention, to meet at Topeka, on the fourth Tuesday of October.

Elections were held at the time and places designated, and the returns were sent to the executive
committee.

The result of the election was proclaimed by the executive committee, and the members elect
were required to meet on the 23rd of October, 1855, at Topeka.  In pursuance of this proclamation
and direction the constitutional convention met at the time and place appointed, and framed
a state constitution.  A memorial to Congress was also prepared, praying the admission of Kansas
into the Union as a state under that constitution.  The convention also provided that the question
of the adoption of the constitution, and other questions, be submitted to the people, and required
the executive committee to take the necessary steps for that purpose.

Accordingly, an election was held on the 15th day of December, 1855, in compliance with the
proclamation issued by the executive committee who then issued a proclamation reciting the
results of the election of the 15th of December, and at the same time provided for an election,
to be held on the 11th day of January, 1856, for state officers and members of the general
assembly of the State of Kansas.  The election was accordingly held in several election precincts,
the returns of which were sent to the executive committee who announced the result by a proclamation.

Thus, when we arrived in Kansas, two rival governments were in existence, one the result of
fraud and force, the other confessedly incomplete, being without executive power or recognition.
Congress alone could settle the controversy by recognizing one or the other. Its action and
its failure to act will be stated further on.

A brief narrative of incidents while the committee was in Kansas may be of interest.

We arrived by steamer at a place called Westport Landing, near the mouth of the Kansas River.
As I remember the place it was a mere hamlet, composed of three dwellings, a store, a tavern,
and a blacksmith shop.  We passed over the high rolling prairie, where but a few and scattered
cabins then existed, but which is now the site of Kansas City, a beautiful city of 90,000 inhabitants.
About six miles from the landing we entered Westport, the headquarters of the Santa Fé trade.
This important trade in 1854 was conducted with "prairie schooners," wagons of great dimensions
rudely but strongly built, each hauled by four or six mules or Indian ponies, and all driven
by as rough a set of men of mixed color, tribe and nativity as could be found anywhere in the
world.  Their usual dress was a broad brimmed felt hat, a flannel shirt, home-spun trousers,
without suspenders, and heavy cowhide boots outside of their trousers, with a knife or pistols,
or both, in their belts or boots.  They were properly classed as border ruffians, and as a
rule were whisky soaked.

The contrast of this region between then and now is a marked evidence of the wonderful change
that has been made within a single generation. I have several times visited Kansas City and
its environs since 1856.  I have noted the change at each visit!  The rolling prairie has been
checkered with streets and avenues, and the squares and suburbs are dotted all over with residences,
stores and workshops. The landing, once a single pier, now extends miles along the Missouri
River.  The border ruffians have disappeared with the Indians and "greasers," and have been
replaced by an active, intelligent and prosperous community.

Mrs. Sherman and myself started in advance for Lawrence in an open buggy drawn by one horse,
and were told to follow the trail, and this we had no difficulty in doing.  We passed through
one or more Indian reservations, over as beautiful a country as the sun shines upon, but without
house or habitation, except Indian huts.  We arrived at Lawrence, a town less than two years
old, and were cordially received.  The people there were fearing a raid by the "border ruffians,"
but this was fortunately postponed until our departure for Leavenworth.

The committee proceeded immediately to take testimony.  Governor Reeder acted in behalf of
the Free State side, and General Whitfield in behalf of the pro-slavery side, this being the
conceded line of demarcation between the opposing factions.  The town was in embryo, nothing
finished, and my wife and I were glad to have a cot in a room in the unfinished and unoccupied
"Free State Hotel," soon after burned to the ground by Jones, the marshal of Kansas, or his
deputies.  There was no difficulty in obtaining witnesses or testimony, but, as a rule, the
witnesses on one side would only testify in Lawrence, and those on the other in Lecompton or
Leavenworth.  They were like soldiers in hostile armies, careful to keep outside of the enemy's
camp.

Dr. Robinson, afterwards Governor Robinson, was then by far the ablest and bravest leader of
the Free State cause.  His history of the Kansas conflict is the most interesting yet published.
When the committee visited Lecompton to take testimony, it was a surprise to us that he not
only offered, but insisted upon going to that place, the headquarters and capital of the pro-slavery
party.  It was then scarcely a hamlet, and its existence depended entirely upon the success
of that party.  Dr. Robinson and I rode together into the place.  It was easy to see that he
was not a welcome visitor.  Everyone but the committee carried arms.  Several murders and affrays
had recently occurred, in regard to which we had taken evidence.  Here we had access to the
poll-books of the contested elections, and met on friendly terms with the officers of the territory,
the chief of whom were Judge Lecompte, chief justice of the territory, after whom the town
had been named, and Jones, the marshal of the United States.  Governor Shannon was, I think,
also there for a time.  The quarters for lodging were even more limited here than in Lawrence.
I slept in a cot side by side with the one occupied by Judge Lecompte, who, though a terror
to the Free State men, seemed to me to be a good humored gentleman, more violent in his words
than in his acts.  We had no unpleasant incident while there, though such had been prophesied
at Lawrence.

From Lecompton the committee went to Topeka, then quite a small village, now a city of 33,000
inhabitants.  It was already ambitious to become the Free State capital of Kansas, by reason
of its central position.  There was then no settlement of any importance west of Topeka.  Some
testimony was taken, but we soon returned to Lawrence, and from thence went to Leavenworth.
A large part of the distance between these places was an Indian reservation.  Mrs. Sherman
and I rode over it in a buggy, and found no white man's habitation on the way.  Its great value
and fertility was easily perceived, and it is now well settled by an active and prosperous
population of white men.  On the road we met an Indian seated near his wigwam, with a gun in
his hand, and for a moment I feared he might use it. He uttered some Indian gibberish, which
we construed as an invitation to enter his hut.  We tied our horse, entered, and found no one
there but an old squaw.  I gave the Indian some silver which he greedily took, but indicated
by his motions that he wanted a drink of whisky, but this I was not able to give him.

Leavenworth was a new town near Fort Leavenworth, the then western military post of the army
of the United States.  We placed ourselves in communication with Colonel Sumner, then in command,
but we had no occasion to summon his official aid, though authorized by the resolutions under
which we were acting to call for such assistance from any military force which was at the time
convenient to us. However, our meetings there were more disturbed than at any other place.
The trouble commenced at Lawrence shortly after our arrival at Leavenworth.  A company of about
700 armed men, the great body of whom were not citizens of the territory, were marched into
the town of Lawrence under Marshal Donaldson and Sheriff Jones, officers claiming to act under
the law, and they then bombarded and burned to the ground a valuable hotel and one private
house, and destroying two printing presses and material.  The posse, being released by the
officers, proceeded to sack, pillage, and rob houses, stores, trunks, even taking the clothing
of women and children.  The people of Leavenworth were much alarmed, as threats were made to
clean out the "Black Republican Committee" at Leavenworth.  No attempt of that kind was made.
Later on, Dr. Robinson was arrested on a steamboat on the way with his wife to St. Louis. 
We had confided to him a copy of the testimony taken, to be delivered to Mr. Banks, speaker
of the House.  We believe that a knowledge of that fact caused the arrest, but, fortunately,
Mrs. Robinson, who had the testimony safely secured in her clothing, was allowed to proceed
to Washington.  Dr. Robinson was taken back to Leavenworth and placed in prison, where I called
upon him, but was rudely threatened, and was only allowed to speak to him in the presence of
the jailer.

We were frequently threatened through anonymous letters.  On one occasion, upon going in the
morning to the committee room, I found tacked upon the door a notice to the "Black Republican
Committee" to leave Kansas "upon penalty of death."  I cut it from the door and called upon
a bystander to testify to the contents and the place from which it was taken.

On one Sunday morning, while sitting in my lodging, a very rough looking man entered, and I
indicated to Mr. W. Blair Lord, our stenographer, to take down what was said.  With many oaths
and imprecations he told us that he had been robbed by ruffians of his horses and wagon a few
miles from Leavenworth; that he had offered to fight them, but they were cowards; that he was
born in Richland county, Ohio, near Mansfield, and he wanted me to help him get his traps.
I knew his family as famous fighters.  I asked him if he would swear to his story.  He said
he would, and Mr. Lord read it to him, oaths and all, from his stenographic notes.  He stared
at Lord and demanded "Where in hell did you get that?"  He was handed the stenographic notes
and, after looking at them, he exclaimed: "Snakes, by God; but it is all true!"  Whether he
got his outfit and traps I never knew.

The evidence at Leavenworth being closed the committee returned to Westport, Missouri.  While
we were there we saw an armed and organized body of residents of Missouri march across the
line into Kansas to retaliate, as we were told, the murder of five pro-slavery men at Osawatamie.
While they were marching into Westport from the east, Governor Shannon, in obedience to the
summons of the committee, came into Westport from the territory, and in his presence they filed
off in regular array into the territory.  It was difficult to ascertain the precise causes
of these murders, but it was shown that they were in retaliation for those of certain Free
State men, one of whom was the son of John Brown, later the famous leader of the attack on
the fort at Harper's Ferry, and who had acted for the committee in summoning witnesses to Lawrence.
The testimony in respect to these murders was vague, and the murderers were not identified.
Two years afterwards I met John Brown in Chicago, and asked him about the murder of the pro-slavery
men at Osawatamie; he replied with spirit that they were not murdered, but that they had been
arrested, tried by a jury, convicted and executed.  The arrest, trial and execution must have
been done during one night. He did not disclose the names of the executioners, but his cool
statement was a striking picture of the scenes then enacted in Kansas by both sides; both appealed
to the law of force and crime, and crime was justified by crime.

The evidence taken at Westport closed the investigation and Mr. Howard and I returned to Detroit,
as already stated.

The report was approved by Mr. Howard, and presented by him to the House of Representatives,
July 1, 1856, as a question of privilege. The reception of it gave rise to much debate, but
in the end I was permitted on the same day to read it.  The minority report of Mr. Oliver was
presented July 11 of that year.  No action was taken on the reports, but they were widely published.

On July 31, 1856, I made a speech on the Kansas contested election between General Whitfield
and Governor Reeder, during which I was drawn into a discussion with Alexander H. Stephens,
of Georgia, and Mr. Oliver, of Missouri, in which the general questions involved in the Kansas
controversy were fully debated.  I closed with this language:

"The worst evil that could befall our country is civil war, but the outrages in Kansas cannot
be continued much longer without producing it.  To our southern brethren I especially appeal.
In the name of southern rights, crimes have been committed, and are being committed, which
I know you cannot and do not approve.  These have excited a feeling in the northern states
that is deepening and strengthening daily.  It may produce acts of retaliation.  You are in
a minority and, from the nature of your institutions, your relative power is yearly decreasing.
In excusing this invasion from Missouri--in attempting to hold on to an advantage obtained
by force and fraud--you are setting an example which, in its ultimate consequences, may trample
your rights under foot.  Until these wrongs are righted, you must expect northern men to unite
to redress them.  It may not be this year, but, as sure as there is a God in heaven, such a
union will be effected; and you will gain nothing by sustaining northern agitators in violating
the compromise of your fathers."

On July 28, 1856, I offered, as an amendment to the army appropriation bill, the following proviso:

"Provided, nevertheless, That no part of a military force of the United States herein provided
for, shall be employed in aid of the enforcement of the enactments of the alleged legislative
assembly of the Territory of Kansas, recently assembled at Shawnee Mission, until Congress
shall have enacted either that it was or was not a valid legislative assembly, chosen in conformity
with the organic law, by the people of said territory.  And Provided, That until Congress shall
have passed on the validity of the said legislative assembly of Kansas, it shall be the duty
of the President to use the military force in said territory to preserve the peace, suppress
insurrection, repel invasion, and protect persons and property therein, and upon the national
highways in the State of Missouri, from unlawful seizures and searches.  And be it further
provided, That the President is required to disarm the present organized militia of the Territory
of Kansas and recall all the United States arms therein distributed, and to prevent armed men
from going into said territory to disturb the public peace, or aid in the enforcement or resistance
of real or pretended laws."

After long debate, this was agreed to by a vote of 80 yeas to 47 nays.  The deliberate purpose
of a majority of the House was to prevent any further support of the Lecompton territorial
legislature. This amendment, however, was disagreed to by the Senate and referred to a committee
of conference.  On the 18th of August, the last day of the session, the disagreement continued
and the conference report was taken up for action.  A motion was made that the House insist
upon its amendments and agree to another committee of conference. This was defeated, but no
definite action was taken, as a majority of the House was opposed to a further conference,
and so the army bill failed.

On the same day the President, by proclamation, convened the two Houses in extra session to
meet on the 21st day of August, three days later.  The President, in his message, urged Congress
to recede from the Kansas proviso in the army bill.  The Republicans of the House were determined
to insist upon that proviso, and, by repeated votes, refused to withdraw it or to reconsider
it, but, after a session of nine days, the House finally yielded, but only after the Senate
had agreed to an amendment, which contained the substance of the proviso offered by me, as follows;

"Provided, That no part of the military force of the United States, for the support of which
appropriations are made by this act, shall be employed in aid of the enforcement of any enactment
heretofore passed by the bodies claiming to be the territorial legislature of Kansas."

This amendment was agreed to and thus, in the final struggle, while no effective measures to
relieve the people of Kansas from the tyranny imposed upon them were adopted, the declaration
was made that the military force of the United States should not be used to aid in the enforcement
of any enactment theretofore passed by bodies claiming to be the territorial legislature of Kansas.

Thus it appears that during this long and wearisome session (for in fact the two were but one),
I was almost exclusively occupied in a futile effort to restore the prohibition of slavery
in Kansas, according to the Missouri Compromise, but the struggle made was fruitful in good.
It strengthened the Free State sentiment in Kansas, it aroused public sentiment in the north,
and drove the south to adopt new and strange theories which led to divisions in the Democratic
party and its disruption and overthrow in 1860. The compromise made was understood to be the
work of Mr. Seward, and, though not satisfactory to the Republicans of the House, it was at
least a drawn battle, and, like Bunker Hill to Yorktown, was the prelude to the Revolution
that ended at Appomattox.

