Finally, in the homely, unconventional wisdom which fills Satire and Epistle and sparkles from
the Odes, Horace is again the national interpreter. The masses of Rome or Italy had little
consciously to do with either Stoicism or Epicureanism. Their philosophy was vigorous common
sense, and was learned from living, not from conning books. Horace, too, for all his having
been a student of formal philosophy in Athens, for all his professed faith in philosophy as
a boon for rich and poor and old and young, and for all his inclination to yield to the natural
human impulse toward system and adopt the philosophy of one of the Schools, is a consistent
follower of neither Stoic nor Epicurean. Both systems attracted him by their virtues, and both
repelled him because of their weaknesses. His half-humorous confession of wavering allegiance
is only a reflection of the shiftings of a mind open to the appeal of both:

And, lest you inquire under what guide or to what hearth I look for safety, I will tell you
that I am sworn to obedience in no master's formula, but am a guest in whatever haven the tempest
sweeps me to. Now I am full of action and deep in the waves of civic life, an unswerving follower
and guardian of the true virtue, now I secretly backslide to the precepts of Aristippus, and
try to bend circumstance to myself, not myself to circumstance.

Horace is either Stoic or Epicurean, or neither, or both. The character of philosophy depends
upon definition of terms, and Epicureanism with Horace's definitions of pleasure and duty differed
little in practical working from Stoicism. In profession, he was more of the Epicurean; in
practice, more of the Stoic. His philosophy occupies ground between both, or, rather, ground
common to both. It admits of no name. It is not a system. It owes its resemblances to either
of the Schools more to his own nature than to his familiarity with them, great as that was.

The foundations of Horace's philosophy were laid before he ever heard of the Schools. Its basis
was a habit of mind acquired by association with his father and the people of Venusia, and
with the ordinary people of Rome. Under the influence of reading, study, and social converse
at Athens, under the stress of experience in the field, and from long contemplation of life
in the large in the capital of an empire, it crystallized into a philosophy of life. The term
"philosophy" is misleading in Horace's case. It suggests books and formulae and externals.
What Horace read in books did not all remain for him the dead philosophy of ink and paper;
what was in tune with his nature he assimilated, to become philosophy in action, philosophy
which really was the guide of life. His faith in it is unfeigned:

Thus does the time move slowly and ungraciously which hinders me from the active realization
of what, neglected, is a harm to young and old alike.... The envious man, the ill-tempered,
the indolent, the wine-bibber, the too free lover,--no mortal, in short, is so crude that his
nature cannot be made more gentle if only he will lend a willing ear to cultivation.

The occasional phraseology of the Schools which Horace employs should not mislead. It is for
the most part the convenient dress for truth discovered for himself through experience; or
it may be literary ornament. The humorous and not unsatiric lines to his poet-friend Albius
Tibullus,--"when you want a good laugh, come and see me; you will find me fat and sleek and
my skin well cared for, a pig from the sty of Epicurus,"--are as easily the jest of a Stoic
as the confession of an Epicurean. Horace's philosophy is individual and natural, and representative
of Roman common sense rather than any School.

HORACE AND HELLENISM

A word should be said here regarding the frequent use of the word "Hellenic" in connection
with Horace's genius. Among the results of his higher education, it is natural that none should
be more prominent to the eye than the influence of Greek letters upon his work; but to call
Horace Greek is to be blinded to the essential by the presence in his poems of Greek form and
Greek allusion. It would be as little reasonable to call a Roman triumphal arch Greek because
it displays column, architrave, or a facing of marble from Greece. What makes Roman architecture
stand is not ornament, but Roman concrete and the Roman vault. Horace is Greek as Milton is
Hebraic or Roman, or as Shakespeare is Italian.

4. HORACE THE PHILOSOPHER OF LIFE

HORACE THE SPECTATOR AND ESSAYIST

A great source of the richness of personality which constitutes Horace's principal charm is
to be found in his contemplative disposition. His attitude toward the universal drama is that
of the onlooker. As we shall see, he is not without keen interest in the piece, but his prevailing
mood is that of mild amusement. In time past, he has himself assumed more than one of the rôles,
and has known personally many of the actors. He knows perfectly well that there is a great
deal of the mask and buskin on the stage of life, and that each man in his time plays many
parts. Experience has begotten reflection, and reflection has contributed in turn to experience,
until contemplation has passed from diversion to habit.

He looks down from his post upon the life of men with as clear vision as Lucretius, whom he
admires:

Nothing is sweeter than to dwell in the lofty citadels secure in the wisdom of the sages, thence
to look down upon the rest of mankind blindly wandering in mistaken paths in the search for
the way of life, striving one with another in the contest of wits, emulous in distinction of
birth, night and day straining with supreme effort at length to arrive at the heights of power
and become lords of the world.

Farther, Horace is not merely the stander-by contemplating the game in which objective mankind
is engaged. He is also a spectator of himself. Horace the poet-philosopher contemplates Horace
the man with the same quiet amusement with which he surveys the human family of which he is
an inseparable yet detachable part. It is the universal aspect of Horace which is the object
of his contemplation,--Horace playing a part together with the rest of mankind in the infinitely
diverting comédie humaine. He uses himself, so to speak, for illustrative purposes,--to point
the moral of the genuine; to demonstrate the indispensability of hard work as well as genius;
to afford concrete proof of the possibility of happiness without wealth. He is almost as objective
to himself as the landscape of the Sabine farm. Horace the spectator sees Horace the man against
the background of human life just as he sees snow-mantled Soracte, or the cold Digentia, or
the restless Adriatic, or leafy Tarentum, or snowy Algidus, or green Venafrum. The clear-cut
elegance of his miniatures of Italian scenery is not due to their individual interest, but
to their connection with the universal life of man. Description for its own sake is hardly
to be found in Horace. In the same way, the vivid glimpses he affords of his own life, person,
and character almost never prompt the thought of egotism. The most personal of poets, his expression
of self nowhere becomes selfish expression.

But there are spectators who are mere spectators. Horace is more; he is a critic and an interpreter.
He looks forth upon life with a keen vision for comparative values, and gives sane and distinct
expression to what he sees.

Horace must not be thought of, however, as a censorious or carping critic. His attitude is
judicial, and the verdict is seldom other than lenient and kindly. He is not a wasp of Twickenham,
not a Juvenal furiously laying about him with a heavy lash, not a Lucilius with the axes of
Scipionic patrons to grind, having at the leaders of the people and the people themselves.
He is in as little degree an Ennius, composing merely to gratify the taste for entertainment.
There are some, as a matter of fact, to whom in satire he seems to go beyond the limit of good-nature.
At vice in pronounced form, at all forms of unmanliness, he does indeed strike out, like Lucilius
the knight of Campania, his predecessor and pattern, gracious only to virtue and to the friends
of virtue; but those whose hands are clean and whose hearts are pure need fear nothing. Even
those who are guilty of the ordinary frailties of human kind need fear nothing worse than being
good-humoredly laughed at. The objects of Horace's smiling condemnation are not the trifling
faults of the individual or the class, but the universal grosser stupidities which poison the
sources of life.

The Horace of the Satires and Epistles is better called an essayist. That he is a satirist
at all is less by virtue of intention than because of the mere fact that he is a spectator.
To look upon life with the eye of understanding is to see men the prey to passions and delusions,--the
very comment on which can be nothing else than satire.

And now, what is it that Horace sees as he sits in philosophic detachment on the serene heights
of contemplation; and what are his reflections?

The great factor in the character of Horace is his philosophy of life. To define it is to give
the meaning of the word Horatian as far as content is concerned, and to trace the thread which
more than any other makes his works a unity.

i. THE VANITY OF HUMAN WISHES

Horace looks forth upon a world of discontented and restless humanity. The soldier, the lawyer,
the farmer, the trader, swept over the earth in the passion for gain, like dust in the whirlwind,--all
are dissatisfied. Choose anyone you will from the midst of the throng; either with greed for
money or with miserable ambition for power, his soul is in travail. Some are dazzled by fine
silver, some lose their senses over bronze. Some are ever straining after the prizes of public
life. There are many who love not wisely, but too well. Most are engaged in a mad race for
money, whether to assure themselves of retirement and ease in old age, or out of the sportsman's
desire to outstrip their rivals in the course. As many as are mortal men, so many are the objects
of their pursuit.

And, over and about all men, by reason of their bondage to avarice, ambition, appetite, and
passion, hovers Black Care. It flits above their sleepless eyes in the panelled ceiling of
the darkened palace, it sits behind them on the courser as they rush into battle, it dogs them
as they are at the pleasures of the bronze-trimmed yacht. It pursues them everywhere, swifter
than the deer, swifter than the wind that drives before it the storm-cloud. Not even those
who are most happy are entirely so. No lot is wholly blest. Perfect happiness is unattainable.
Tithonus, with the gift of ever-lasting life, wasted away in undying old age. Achilles, with
every charm of youthful strength and gallantry, was doomed to early death. Not even the richest
are content. Something is always lacking in the midst of abundance, and desire more than keeps
pace with satisfaction.

Nor are the multitude less enslaved to their desires than the few. Glory drags bound to her
glittering chariot-wheels the nameless as well as the nobly-born. The poor are as inconstant
as the rich. What of the man who is not rich? You may well smile. He changes from garret to
garret, from bed to bed, from bath to bath and barber to barber, and is just as seasick in
a hired boat as the wealthy man on board his private yacht.

And not only are all men the victims of insatiable desire, but all are alike subject to the
uncertainties of fate. Insolent Fortune without notice flutters her swift wings and leaves
them. Friends prove faithless, once the cask is drained to the lees. Death, unforeseen and
unexpected, lurks in ambush for them in a thousand places. Some are swallowed up by the greedy
sea. Some the Furies give to destruction in the grim spectacle of war. Without respect of age
or person, the ways of death are thronged with young and old. Cruel Proserpina passes no man by.

Even they who for the time escape the object of their dread must at last face the inevitable.
Invoked or not invoked, Death comes to release the lowly from toil, and to strip the proud
of power. The same night awaits all; everyone must tread once for all the path of death. The
summons is delivered impartially at the hovels of the poor and the turreted palaces of the
rich. The dark stream must be crossed by prince and peasant alike. Eternal exile is the lot
of all, whether nameless and poor, or sprung of the line of Inachus:

  Alas! my Postumus, alas! how speed
  The passing years: nor can devotion's deed
  Stay wrinkled age one moment on its way,
  Nor stay one moment death's appointed day;

  Not though with thrice a hundred oxen slain
  Each day thou prayest Pluto to refrain,
  The unmoved by tears, who threefold Geryon drave,
  And Tityus, beneath the darkening wave.

  The wave we all must one day surely sail
  Who live and breathe within this mortal vale,
  Whether our lot with princely rich to fare,
  Whether the peasant's lowly life to share.

  In vain for us from murderous Mars to flee,
  In vain to shun the storms of Hadria's sea,
  In vain to fear the poison-laden breath
  Of Autumn's sultry south-wind, fraught with death;

  Adown the wandering stream we all must go,
  Adown Cocytus' waters, black and slow;
  The ill-famed race of Danaus all must see,
  And Sisyphus, from labors never free.

  All must be left,--lands, home, beloved wife,--
  All left behind when we have done with life;
  One tree alone, of all thou holdest dear,
  Shall follow thee,--the cypress, o'er thy bier!

  Thy wiser heir will soon drain to their lees
  The casks now kept beneath a hundred keys;
  The proud old Caecuban will stain the floor,
  More fit at pontiffs' solemn feasts to pour.

Nor is there a beyond filled with brightness for the victim of fate to look to. Orcus is unpitying.
Mercury's flock of souls is of sable hue, and Proserpina's realm is the hue of the dusk. Black
Care clings to poor souls even beyond the grave. Dull and persistent, it is the only substantial
feature of the insubstantial world of shades. Sappho still sighs there for love of her maiden
companions, the plectrum of Alcaeus sounds its chords only to songs of earthly hardships by
land and sea, Prometheus and Tantalus find no surcease from the pangs of torture, Sisyphus
ever rolls the returning stone, and the Danaids fill the ever-emptying jars.

ii. THE PLEASURES OF THIS WORLD

The picture is dark with shadow, and must be relieved with light and color. The hasty conclusion
should not be drawn that this is the philosophy of gloom. The tone of Horace is neither that
of the cheerless skeptic nor that of the despairing pessimist. He does not rise from his contemplation
with the words or the feeling of Lucretius:

O miserable minds of men, O blind hearts! In what obscurity and in what dangers is passed this
uncertain little existence of yours!

He would have agreed with the philosophy of pessimism that life contains striving and pain,
but he would not have shared in the gloom of a Schopenhauer, who in all will sees action, in
all action want, in all want pain, who looks upon pain as the essential condition of will,
and sees no end of suffering except in the surrender of the will to live. The vanity of human
wishes is no secret to Horace, but life is not to him "a soap-bubble which we blow out as long
and as large as possible, though each of us knows perfectly well it must sooner or later burst."

No, life may have its inevitable pains and its inevitable end, but it is far more substantial
in composition than a bubble. For those who possess the secret of detecting and enjoying them,
it contains solid goods in abundance.

What is the secret?

The first step toward enjoyment of the human lot is acquiescence. Of course existence has its
evils and bitter end, but these are minimized for the man who frankly faces them, and recognizes
the futility of struggling against the fact. How much better to endure whatever our lot shall
impose. Quintilius is dead: it is hard; but patience makes lighter the ill that fate will not
suffer us to correct.

And then, when we have once yielded, and have ceased to look upon perfect happiness as a possibility,
or upon any measure of happiness as a right to be demanded, we are in position to take the
second step; namely, to make wise use of life's advantages:

  Mid all thy hopes and all thy cares, mid all thy wraths and fears,
  Think every shining day that dawns the period to thy years.
  The hour that comes unlooked for is the hour that doubly cheers.

Because there are many things to make life a pleasure. There is the solace of literature; Black
Care is lessened by song. There are the riches of philosophy, there is the diversion of moving
among men. There are the delights of the country and the town. Above all, there are friends
with whom to share the joy of mere living in Italy. For what purpose, if not to enjoy, are
the rose, the pine, and the poplar, the gushing fountain, the generous wine of Formian hill
and Massic slope, the villa by the Tiber, the peaceful and healthful seclusion of the Sabines,
the pleasing change from the sharp winter to the soft zephyrs of spring, the apple-bearing
autumn,--"season of mists and mellow fruitfulness"? What need to be unhappy in the midst of
such a world?

And the man who is wise will not only recognize the abounding possibilities about him, but
will seize upon them before they vanish. Who knows whether the gods above will add a tomorrow
to the to-day? Be glad, and lay hand upon the gifts of the passing hour! Take advantage of
the day, and have no silly faith in the morrow. It is as if Omar were translating Horace:

  "Waste not your Hour, nor in the vain pursuit
  0f This and That endeavor and dispute;
    Better be jocund with the fruitful Grape
  Than sadden after none, or bitter, Fruit.

The goods of existence must be enjoyed here and now, or never, for all must be left behind.
What once is enjoyed is forever our very own. Happy is the man who can say, at each day's close,
"I have lived!" The day is his, and cannot be recalled. Let Jove overcast with black cloud
the heavens of to-morrow, or let him make it bright with clear sunshine,--as he pleases; what
the flying hour of to-day has already given us he never can revoke. Life is a stream, now gliding
peacefully onward in mid-channel to the Tuscan sea, now tumbling upon its swirling bosom the
wreckage of flood and storm. The pitiful human being on its banks, ever looking with greedy
expectation up the stream, or with vain regret at what is past, is left at last with nothing
at all. The part of wisdom and of happiness is to keep eyes on that part of the stream directly
before us, the only part which is ever really seen.

  You see how, deep with gleaming snow,
  Soracte stands, and, bending low,
    Yon branches droop beneath their burden,
      And streams o'erfrozen have ceased their flow.

  Away with cold! the hearth pile high
  With blazing logs; the goblet ply
    With cheering Sabine, Thaliarchus;
      Draw from the cask of long years gone by.

  All else the gods entrust to keep,
  Whose nod can lull the winds to sleep,
    Vexing the ash and cypress agèd,
      Or battling over the boiling deep.

  Seek not to pierce the morrow's haze,
  But for the moment render praise;
    Nor spurn the dance, nor love's sweet passion,
      Ere age draws on with its joyless days.

  Now should the campus be your joy,
  And whispered loves your lips employ,
    What time the twilight shadows gather,
      And tryst you keep with the maiden coy.

  From near-by nook her laugh makes plain
  Where she had meant to hide, in vain!
    How arch her struggles o'er the token
      From yielding which she can scarce refrain!

iii. LIFE AND MORALITY

But Horace's Epicureanism never goes to the length of Omar's. He would have shrunk from the
Persian as extreme:

  "YESTERDAY This Day's Madness did prepare,
  TOMORROW'S Silence, Triumph, or Despair,
    Drink! for you know not whence you came, nor why:
  Drink! for you know not why you go, nor where."

The Epicureanism of Horace is more nearly that of Epicurus himself, the saintly recluse who
taught that "to whom little is not enough, nothing is enough," and who regarded plain living
as at the same time a duty and a happiness. The lives of too liberal disciples have been a
slander on the name of Epicurus. Horace is not among them. With degenerate Epicureans, whose
philosophy permitted them "To roll with pleasure in a sensual sty," he had little in common.
The extraction from life of the honey of enjoyment was indeed the highest purpose, but the
purpose could never be realized without the exercise of discrimination, moderation, and a measure
of spiritual culture. Life was an art, symmetrical, unified, reposeful,--like the poem of perfect
art, or the statue, or the temple. In actual conduct, the hedonist of the better type differed
little from the Stoic himself.

The gracious touch and quiet humor with which Horace treats even the most serious themes are
often misleading. This effect is the more possible by reason of the presence among his works
of passages, not many and for the most part youthful, in which he is guilty of too great freedom.

Horace is really a serious person. He is even something of a preacher, a praiser of the time
when he was a boy, a censor and corrector of his youngers. So far as popular definitions of
Stoic and Epicurean are concerned, he is much more the former than the latter.

For Horace's counsel is always for moderation, and sometimes for austerity. He is not a wine-bibber,
and he is not a total abstainer. To be the latter on principle would never have occurred to
him. The vine was the gift of God. Prefer nothing to it for planting in the mellow soil of
Tibur, Varus; it is one of the compensations of life:

  "Its magic power of wit can spread
  The halo round a dullard's head,
  Can make the sage forget his care,
  His bosom's inmost thoughts unbare,
  And drown his solemn-faced pretense
  Beneath its blithesome influence.
  Bright hope it brings and vigor back
  To minds outworn upon the rack,
  And puts such courage in the brain
  As makes the poor be men again,
  Whom neither tyrants' wrath affrights,
  Nor all their bristling satellites."

When wine is a curse, it is not so because of itself, but because of excess in its use. The
cup was made for purposes of pleasure, but to quarrel over it,--leave that to barbarians! Take
warning by the Thracians, and the Centaurs and Lapiths, never to overstep the bounds of moderation.
Pleasure with after-taste of bitterness is not real pleasure. Pleasure purchased with pain
is an evil.

Upon women he looks with the same philosophic calm as upon wine. Love, too, was to be regarded
as one of the contributions to life's pleasure. To dally with golden-haired Pyrrha, with Lyce,
or with Glycera, the beauty more brilliant than Parian marble, was not in his eyes to be blamed
in itself. What he felt no hesitation in committing to his poems for friends and the Emperor
to read, they on their part felt as little hesitation in confessing to him. The fault of love
lay not in itself, but in abuse. This is not said of adultery, which was always an offense
because it disturbed the institution of marriage and rotted the foundation of society.

There is thus no inconsistency in the Horace of the love poems and the Horace of the Secular
Hymn who petitions Our Lady Juno to prosper the decrees of the Senate encouraging the marriage
relation and the rearing of families. Of the illicit love that looked to Roman women in the
home, he emphatically declares his innocence, and against it directs the last and most powerful
of the six Inaugural Odes; for this touched the family, and, through the family, the State.
This, with neglect of religion, he classes together as the two great causes of national decay.

Horace is not an Ovid, with no sense of the limits of either indulgence or expression. He is
not a Catullus, tormented by the furies of youthful passion. The flame never really burned
him. We search his pages in vain for evidence of sincere and absorbing passion, whether of
the flesh or of the spirit. He was guilty of no breach of the morals of his time, and it is
likely also, in spite of Suetonius, that he was guilty of no excess. He was a supporter in
good faith of the Emperor in his attempts at the moral improvement of the State. If Virgil
in the writing of the Georgics or the Aeneid was conscious of a purpose to second the project
of Augustus, it is just as likely that his intimate friend Horace also wrote with conscious
moral intent. Nothing is more in keeping with his conception of the end and effect of literature:

It shapes the tender and hesitating speech of the child; it straight removes his ear from shameless
communication; presently with friendly precepts it moulds his inner self; it is a corrector
of harshness and envy and anger; it sets forth the righteous deed; it instructs the rising
generations with the familiar example; it is a solace to the helpless and the sick at heart.

iv. LIFE AND PURPOSE

Horace's philosophy of life is thus based upon something deeper than the principle of seizing
upon pleasure. His definition of pleasure is not without austerity; he preaches the positive
virtues of performance as well as the negative virtue of moderation. He could be an unswerving
follower and guardian of true virtue, and could bend self to circumstance.

He stands for domestic purity, and for patriotic devotion. Dulce et decorum est pro patria
mori,--to die for country is a privilege and a glory. His hero is Regulus, returning steadfastly
through the ranks of protesting friends to keep faith with the pitiless executioners of Carthage.
Regulus, and the Scauri, and Paulus, who poured out his great spirit on the disastrous field
of Cannae, and Fabricius, of simple heart and absolute integrity, he holds up as examples to
his generation. In praise of the sturdy Roman qualities of courage and steadfastness he writes
his most inspired lines:

The righteous man of unswerving purpose is shaken in his solid will neither by the unworthy
demands of inflamed citizens, nor by the frowning face of the threatening tyrant, nor by the
East-wind, turbid ruler of the restless Adriatic, nor by the great hand of fulminating Jove
himself. If the heavens should fall asunder, the crashing fragments would descend upon him
unterrified.

He preaches the gospel of faithfulness not only to family, country, and purpose, but to religion.
He will shun the man who violates the secrets of the mysteries. The curse of the gods is upon
all such, and pursues them to the day of doom.

Faithfulness to friendship stands out with no less distinctness. While Horace is in his right
mind, he will value nothing so highly as a delightful friend. He is ready, whenever fate calls,
to enter with Maecenas even upon the last journey. Among the blest is he who is unafraid to
die for dear friends or native land.

