This volteface has, of course, to appear spontaneous and the hand of the titular rulers remain
invisible: the Convention, as usual with usurpers, is to simulate reserve and disinterestedness.--Consequently,
the following morning, August 11, on the opening of the session, it simply declares that "its
mission is fulfilled:"[1141] on the motion of Lacroix, a confederate of Danton's, it passes
a law that a new census of the population and of electors shall be made with as little delay
as possible, in order to convoke the primary assemblies at once; it welcomes with joy the delegates
who bring to it the Constitutional Ark; the entire Assembly rises in the presence of this sacred
receptacle, and allows the delegates to exhort it and instruct it concerning its duties.[1142]
But in the evening, at the Jacobin Club, Robespierre, after a long and vague discourse on public
dangers, conspiracies, and traitors, suddenly utters the decisive words:

"The most important of my reflections was about to escape me[1143]... The proposition made
this morning will only facilitate the replacement of the purified members of this Convention
by the envoys of Pitt and Cobourg."

Dreadful words in the mouth of a man of principles! They are at once understood by the leaders,
great and small, also by the selected fifteen hundred Jacobins then filling the hall. "No!
no! shouts the entire club." The delegates are carried away:

"I demand," exclaims one of them, "that the dissolution of the Convention be postponed until
the end of the war."--

At last, the precious motion, so long desired and anticipated, is made: the calumnies of the
Girondins now fall the ground; it is demonstrated that the Convention does not desire to perpetuate
itself and that it has no ambition; if it remains in power it is because it is kept there;
the delegates of the people compel it to stay.

And better still, they are going to mark out its course of action.--The next day, the 12th
of August, with the zeal of new converts, they spread themselves through the hall in such numbers
that Assembly, no longer able to carry on is deliberations, crowds toward the left and yields
the whole of the space on the right that they may occupy and "purify" it.[1144] All the combustible
material in their minds, accumulated during the past fortnight, takes fire and explodes; they
are more furious than the most ultra Jacobins; they repeat at the bar of the house the extravagances
of Rose Lacombe, and of the lowest clubs; they even transcend the program drawn up by the "Mountain."
"The time for deliberation is past," exclaims their spokesman, "we must act[1145]... Let the
people rouse themselves in a mass... it alone can annihilate its enemies... We demand that
all 'suspects' be put under arrest; that they be dispatched to the frontiers, followed by the
terrible mass of sans-culottes. There, in the front ranks, they will be obliged to fight for
that liberty which they have outraged for the past four years, or be immolated on the tyrants'
cannon.... Women, children, old men and the infirm shall be kept as hostages by the women and
children of sans-culottes." Danton seizes the opportunity. With his usual lucidity he finds
the expression which describes the situation:

"The deputies of the primary assemblies," he says, "have just begun to practice among us the
initiative of terror."

He moreover reduces the absurd notions of the fanatics to a practical measure: "A mobilization
en masse, yes, but with order" by at once calling out the first class of conscript, all men
from eighteen to twenty-five years of age; the arrest of all 'suspects', yes, but not to lead
them against the enemy; "they would be more dangerous than useful in our armies; let us shut
them up; they will be our hostages."--He also proposes employment for the delegates who are
only in the way in Paris and might be useful in the provinces. Let us make of them "various
kinds of representatives charged with animating citizens... Let them, along with all good citizens
and the constituted authorities, take charge of the inventories of grain and arms, and make
requisitions for men, and let the Committee of Public Safety direct this sublime movement....
All will swear that, on returning to their homes, they will give this impulse their fellow
citizens." Universal applause; the delegates exclaim in one voice, "We swear!" Everybody springs
to his feet; the men in the tribunes wave their hats and likewise should the same oath.--The
scheme is successful; a semblance of popular will has authorized the staff of officials, the
policy, the principles and the very name of Terror. As to the instruments for the operation
they are all there ready to be back into action. The delegates, of whose demands and interference
the "Mountain" is still in dread, are sent back to their departmental holes, where they shall
serve as agents and missionaries.[1146] There is no further mention of putting the Constitution
into operation; this was simply a bait, a decoy, contrived for fishing in turbid waters: the
fishing ended, the Constitution is now placed in a conspicuous place in the hall, in a small
monument for which David furnished the design.[1147]--The Convention, now, says Danton, "will
rise to a sense of its dignity, for it is now invested with the full power of the nation."
In other words, artifice completes what violence has begun. Through the outrages committed
in May and June, the Convention had lost its legitimacy; through the maneuvers of July and
August it recovered the semblance of it. The Montagnards still hold their slave by his lash,
but they have restored his prestige so as to make the most of him to their own profit.

VII. Extent and Manifesto of the departmental insurrection

     Effect of this maneuver.--Extent and Manifesto of the
     departmental insurrection.--Its fundamental weakness.--The
     mass of the population inert and distrustful.--The small
     number of Girondists.--Their lukewarm adherents.--Scruples
     of fugitive deputies and insurgent administrators.--They
     form no central government.--They leave military authority
     in the hands of the Convention.--Fatal progress of their
     concessions.--Withdrawal of the departments one by one.
     --Retraction of the compromised authorities.--Effect of
     administrative habits.--Failings and illusions of the
     Moderates.--Opposite character of the Jacobins.

With the same blow, and amongst the same playacting, they have nearly disarmed their adversaries.--On
learning the events of May 31 and June 2, a loud cry of indignation arose among republicans
of the cultivated class in this generation, who, educated by the philosophers, sincerely believed
in the rights of man.[1148] Sixty-nine department administrations had protested,[1149] and,
in almost all the towns of the west, the south, the east and the center of France, at Caen,
Alençon, Evreux, Rennes, Brest, Lorient, Nantes and Limoges, at Bordeaux, Toulouse, Montpellier,
Nîmes and Marseilles, at Grenoble, Lyons, Clermont, Lons-le-Saunier, Besançon, Mâcon and Dijon,[1150]
the citizens, assembled in their sections, had provoked, or maintained by cheering them on,
the acts of their administrators. Rulers and citizens, all declared that, the Convention not
being free, its decrees after the 31st of May, no longer had the force of law; that the troops
of the departments should march on Paris to deliver that city from its oppressors, and that
their substitutes should be called out and assemble at Bourges. In many places words were converted
into acts. Already before the end of May, Marseilles and Lyons had taken up arms and checkmated
their local Jacobins. After the 2nd of June, Normandy, Brittany, Gard, Jura, Toulouse and Bordeaux,
had also raised troops. At Marseilles, Bordeaux and Caen representatives on mission, arrested
or under guard, were retained as hostages.[1151] At Nantes, the national Guard and popular
magistrates who, a week before, had so bravely repulsed the great Vendéan army, dared to more
than this; they limited the powers of the Convention and condemned all meddling: according
to them, the sending of representatives on mission was "an usurpation, an attack on national
sovereignty;" representatives had been elected

"to make and not to execute laws, to prepare a constitution and regulate all public powers,
and not to confound these together and exercise them all at once; to protect and maintain intermediary
powers which the people have delegated, and not to encroach upon and annihilate them."[1152]

With still greater boldness, Montpellier enjoined all representatives everywhere to meet at
the headquarters of their respective departments, and await the verdict of a national jury.
In short, in accordance with the very democratic creed, "nothing was visible amid the ruins
of the Convention," mutilated and degraded, but interloping "attorneys." "The people's workmen"
are summoned "to return to obedience and do justice to the reproaches addressed to them by
their legitimate master;"[1153] the nation canceled the pay of its clerks at the capital, withdrew
the mandate they had misused, and declared them usurpers if they persisted in not yielding
up their borrowed sovereignty "to its inalienable sovereignty."--To this stroke, which strikes
deep, the "Mountain" replies by a similar stroke; it also renders homage to principles and
falls back on the popular will. Through the sudden manufacture of an ultra-democratic constitution,
through a convocation of the primary assemblies, and a ratification of its work by the people
in these assemblies, through the summoning of delegates to Paris, through the assent of these
converted, fascinated, or constrained delegates, it exonerates and justifies itself, and thus
deprives the Girondins of the grievances to which they had given currency, of the axioms they
had displayed on their standards, and of the popularity they thought they had acquired.[1154]--Henceforth,
the ground their opponents had built on sinks under their feet; the materials collected by
them disintegrate in their hands; their league dissolves before it is completed, and the incurable
weakness of the party appears in full daylight.

Firstly, in the departments, as at Paris,[1155] the party has no roots. For the past three
years all the sensible and orderly people, occupied with their own affairs, who has no taste
or interest in politics, nine-tenths of the electors, abstain from voting and in this large
mass the Girondins have no adherents. As they themselves admit,[1156] this class remains attached
to the institutions of 1791, which they have overthrown; if it has any esteem for them, it
is as "extremely honest madmen." Again, this esteem is mingled with aversion: it reproaches
them with the violent decrees they have passed in concert with the "Mountain;" with persecutions,
confiscations, every species of injustice and cruelty; it always sees the King's blood on their
hands; they, too, are regicides, anti-Catholics, anti-Christians, demolishers and levelers.[1157]--Undoubtedly
they are less so than the "Mountain;" hence, when the provincial insurrection breaks out, many
Feuillants and even Royalists follow them to the section assemblies and join in their protests.
But the majority goes no further, and soon falls back into is accustomed inertia. It is not
in harmony with its leaders:[1158] its latent preferences are opposed to their avowed program;
it does not wholly trust them; it has only a half-way affection for them; its recent sympathies
are deadened by old animosities: everywhere, instead of firmness there is only caprice. All
this affords no assurance of steadfast loyalty and practical adhesion. The Girondin deputies
scattered through the provinces relied upon each department arousing itself at their summons
and forming a republican Vendée against the "Mountain:" nowhere do they find anything beyond
mild approval and speculative hopes.

There remains to support them the élite of the republican party, the scholars and lovers of
literature, who are honest and sincere thinkers, who, worked upon by the current dogmas, have
accepted the philosophical catechism literally and seriously. Elected judges, or department,
district, and city administrators, commanders and officers of the National Guard, presidents
and secretaries of sections, they occupy most of the places conferred by local authority, and
hence their almost unanimous protest seems at first to be the voice of France. In reality,
it is only the despairing cry of a group of staff-officers without an army. Chosen under the
electoral pressure with which we are familiar, they possess rank, office and titles, but no
credit or influence; they are supported only by those whom they really represent, that is to
say, those who elected them, a tenth of the population, and forming a sectarian minority. Again,
in this minority there are a good many who are lukewarm; with most men the distance is great
between conviction and action; the interval is filled up with acquired habits, indolence, fear
and egoism. One's belief in the abstractions of the "Contrat-social" is of little account;
no one readily bestirs oneself for an abstract end. Uncertainties beset one at the outset;
the road one has to follow is found to be perilous and obscure, and one hesitates and postpones;
one feels himself a home-body and is afraid of engaging too deeply and of going too far. Having
expended one's breath in words one is less willing to give one's money; another may open his
purse but he may not be disposed to give himself, which is as true of the Girondins as it is
of the Feuillants.

"At Marseilles,[1159] at Bordeaux," says a deputy, "in nearly all the principal towns, the
proprietor, slow, indifferent and timid, could not make up his mind to leave home for a moment;
it was to mercenaries that he entrusted his cause his arms."

Only the federates of Mayenne, Ile-et-Vilaine, and especially of Finisterre, were "young men
well brought up and well informed about the cause they were going to support." In Normandy,
the Central Committee, unable to do better, has to recruit its soldiers, and especially gunners,
from the band of Carabots, former Jacobins, a lot of ruffians ready for anything, pillagers
and runaways at the first canon-shot. At Caen, Wimpffen, having ordered the eight battalions
of the National Guard to assemble in the court, demands volunteers and finds that only seventeen
step forth; on the following day a formal requisition brings out only one hundred and thirty
combatants; other towns, except Vire, which furnishes about twenty, refuse their contingent.
In short, a marching army cannot be formed, or, if it does march, it halts at the first station,
that of Evreux before reaching Vernon, and that of Marseilles at the walls of Avignon.

On the other hand, by virtue of being sincere and logical, those who have rebelled entertain
scruples and themselves define the limits of their insurrection. The fugitive deputies at their
head would believe themselves guilty of usurpation had they, like the "Mountain" at Paris,
constituted themselves at Caen en sovereign assembly[1160]: according to them, their right
and their duty is reduced to giving testimony concerning the 31st of May and the 1st of June,
and to exhorting the people and to being eloquent. They are not legally qualified to take executive
power; it is for the local magistrates, the élus(elected) of the sections, and better still,
the department committees to command in the departments. Lodged as they are in official quarters,
they are merely to print formal statements, write letters, and, behaving properly, wait until
the sovereign people, their employer, reinstates them. It has been outraged in their persons;
it must avenge itself for this outrage; since it approves of its mandatories, it is bound to
restore them to office; it being the master of the house, it is bound to have its own way in
the house.--As to the department committees, it is true that, in the heat of the first excitement,
they thought of forming a new Convention at Bourges,[1161] either through a muster of substitute
deputies, or through the convocation of a national commission of one hundred and seventy members.
But time is wanting, also the means, to carry out the plan; it remains suspended in the air
like vain menace; at the end of a fortnight it vanishes in smoke; the departments succeed in
federating only in scattered groups; they desist from the formation of a central government,
and thus, through this fact alone, condemn themselves to succumb, one after the other, in detail,
and each at home.--What is worse, through conscientiousness and patriotism, they prepare their
own defeat: the refrain from calling upon the armies and from stripping the frontiers; they
do not contest the right of the Convention to provide as it pleases for the national defense.
Lyons allows the passage of convoys of cannon-balls which are to be subsequently used in cannonading
its defenders[1162]. The authorities of Puy-de-Dome aid by sending to Vendée the battalion
that they had organized against the "Mountain." Bordeaux is to surrender Chateau-Trompette,
its munitions of war and supplies, to the representatives on mission; and, without a word,
with exemplary docility, both the Bordeaux battalions which guard Blaye suffer themselves to
be dislodged by two Jacobin battalions.[1163] Comprehending the insurrection in this way, defeat
is certain beforehand.

The insurgents are thus conscious of their false position; they have a vague sort of feeling
that, in recognizing the military authority of the Convention, they admit its authority in
full; insensibly they glide down this slope, from concession to concession, until they reach
complete submission. From the 16th of June, at Lyons,[1164] "people begin to feel that it ought
not break with the Convention." Five weeks later, the authorities of Lyons "solemnly recognize
that the Convention is the sole central rallying point of all French citizens and republicans,"
and decree that "all acts emanating from it concerning the general interests of the republic
are to be executed."[1165] Consequently, at Lyons and in other departments, the administrations
convoke the primary assemblies as the Convention has prescribed; consequently, the primary
assemblies accept the Constitution which it has proposed; consequently, the delegates of the
primary assemblies betake themselves to Paris according to its orders.--Henceforth, the Girondins'
cause is lost; the discharge of a few cannon at Vernon and Avignon disperse the only two columns
of soldiery that have set out on their march. In each department, the Jacobins, encouraged
by the representatives on mission, raise their heads; everywhere the local club enjoins the
local government to submit,[1166] everywhere the local governments report the acts they pass,
make excuses and ask forgiveness. Proportionately to the retraction of one department, the
rest, feeling themselves abandoned, are more disposed to retract. On the 9th of July forty-nine
departments are enumerated as having given in their adhesion. Several of them declare that
the scales have dropped from their eyes, that they approve of the acts of May 31 and June 2,
and thus ensure their safety by manifesting their zeal. The administration of Calvados notifies
the Breton fédérés that "having accepted the Constitution it can no longer tolerate their presence
in Caen;" it sends them home, and secretly makes peace with the "Mountain;" and only informs
the deputies, who are its guests, of this proceeding, three days afterwards, by postings on
their door the decree that declares them outlaws.

Disguised as soldiers, the latter depart along with the Breton fédérés; on the way, they are
able to ascertain the veritable sentiments of this people whom they believe imbued with their
rights and capable of taking a political initiative.[1167] The pretended citizens and republicans
they have to do with are, in sum, the former subjects of Louis XVI. and the future subjects
of Napoleon I., that is to say, administrators and people, disciplined by habit and instinctively
subordinate, requiring a government just as sheep require a shepherd and a watch-dog, accepting
or submitting to shepherd and dog, provided these look and act the part, even if the shepherd
be a butcher and the dog a wolf. To avoid isolation, to rejoin the most numerous herd as soon
as possible, to always form masses and bodies and thus follow the impulsion which comes from
above, and gather together scattered individuals, such is the instinct of the flock.

In the battalion of federates, they begin by saying that, as the Constitution is now accepted
and the convention recognized, it is no longer allowed to protect deputies whom it has declared
outlaws: "that would be creating a faction." Thereupon, the deputies withdraw from the battalion,
and, in a little squad by themselves, march along separately. As they are nineteen in number,
resolute and well armed, the authorities of the market-towns through which they pass make no
opposition by force; it would be offering battle, and that surpasses a functionary's zeal;
moreover, the population is either indifferent toward them or sympathetic. Nevertheless, efforts
are made to stop them, sometimes to surround them and take them by surprise; for, a warrant
of arrest is out against them, transmitted through the hierarchical channel, and every local
magistrate feels bound to do his duty as gendarme. Under this administrative network, the meshes
of which they encounter everywhere, the proscribed deputies can do naught else but hide in
caves or escape by sea.--On reaching Bordeaux, they find other sheep getting ready for the
slaughter-house. Saige, the mayor, preaches conciliation and patience: he declines the aid
of four or five thousand young men, three thousand grenadiers of the National Guard, and two
or three hundred volunteers who had formed themselves into a club against the Jacobin club.
He persuades them to disband; he sends a deputation to Paris to entreat the Convention to overlook
"a moment of error" and pardon their "brethren who had gone astray."--"They flattered themselves,"
says a deputy, an eye-witness,[1168] "that prompt submission would appease the resentment of
tyrants and that these would be, or pretend to be, generous enough to spare a town that had
distinguished itself more than any other during the Revolution." Up to the last, they are to
entertain the same illusions and manifest the same docility. When Tallien, with his eighteen
hundred peasants and brigands, enters Bordeaux, twelve thousand National Guards, equipped,
armed and in uniform, receive him wearing oak-leaf crowns; they listen in silence to "his astounding
and outrageous discourse;" they suffer him to tear off their crowns, cockades and epaulettes;
the battalions allow themselves to be disbanded on the spot; on returning to their quarters
they listen with downcast eyes to the proclamation which "orders all inhabitants without distinction
to bring their arms within thirty-six hours, under the penalty of death, to the glacis of the
Chateau-Trompette; before the time elapses thirty thousand guns, swords, pistols and even pocket-knives
are given up."

Here, as at Paris, on the 20th of June, 10th of August, 2nd of September, 3rd of May and 2nd
of June, as at every critical moment of the Revolution in Paris and the provinces, habits of
subordination and of amiability, stamped on a people by a provident monarchy and a time-honored
civilization, have blunted in man the foresight of danger, his aggressive instinct, his independence
and the faculty of depending upon himself only, the willingness to help one another and of
saving himself. Inevitably, when anarchy brings a nation back to the state of nature, the tame
animals will be eaten by the savage ones,--these are now let loose and immediately they show
their true nature.

VIII. The Reasons for the Terror.

     The last local resistance.--Political orthodoxy of the
     insurgent towns.--They stipulate but one condition.--Reasons
     of State for granting this.--Party arguments against it.

If the men of the "Mountain" had been statesmen, or even sensible men, they would have shown
themselves humane, if not for the sake of humanity, at least through calculation; for in this
France, so little republican, all the republican strength is not too great for the founding
of the Republic, while, through their principles, their culture, their social position and
their number, the Girondins form the élite and the force, the flower and the sap of the party.--The
death-cry of the "Mountain" against the insurgents of Lozére[1169] and Vendée can be understood:
they had raised the king's white flag; they accepted leaders and instructions from Coblentz
and London. But neither Bordeaux, Marseilles nor Lyons are royalist, or in alliance with the
foreigner.

"We, rebels!" write the Lyonnese;[1170] "Why we see no other than the tri-color flag waving;
the white cockade, the symbol of rebellion, has never been raised within our walls. We, royalists!
Why, shouts of 'Long live the Republic' are heard on all sides, and, spontaneously (in the
session of July 2nd) we have all sworn to fall upon whoever should propose a king.... Your
representatives tell you that we are anti-revolutionaries, we who have accepted the Constitution.
They tell you that we protect émigrés when we have offered to surrender all those that you
might indicate. They tell you that our streets are filled with refractory priests, when we
have not even opened the doors of Pierre-en-Cize (prison) to the thirty-two priests confined
there by the old municipality, without indictment, without any charge whatever against them,
solely because they were priests."

Thus, at Lyons, the pretended aristocrats were, then, not only republicans but democrats and
radicals, loyal to the established régime, and submissive to the worst of the revolutionary
laws, while the same state of things prevailed at Bordeaux, at Marseilles and even at Toulon.[1171]
And furthermore, they accepted the outrages of May 31 and June 2;[1172] they stopped contesting
the usurpations of Paris; they no longer insisted on the return of the excluded deputies. On
the 2nd of August at Bordeaux, and the 30th of July at Lyons, the Committee-Extraordinary of
Public Safety resigned; there no longer existed any rival assembly opposed to the Convention.
After the 24th of July,[1173] Lyons solemnly recognized the supreme and central authority,
reserving nothing but its municipal franchises.--And better still, in striking testimony of
political orthodoxy, the Council-General of the department prescribed a civic festival for
the 10th of August analogous to that of Paris. The Lyonnese, already blockaded, indulged in
no hostile manifestation; on the 7th of August they marched out of their advanced positions
to fraternize with the first body of troops sent against them.[1174] They conceded everything,
save on one point, which they could not yield without destruction, namely, the assurance that
they should not be given up defenseless to the arbitrary judgment of their local tyrants, to
the spoliation, proscriptions and revenge of the Jacobin rabble. In sum, at Marseilles and
Bordeaux, especially at Lyons and Toulon, the sections had revolted only on that account; acting
promptly and spontaneously, the people had thrust aside the knife which a few ruffians aimed
at their throats; they had not been, and were not now, willing to be "Septemberised," that
was their sole concern. Provided they were not handed over to the butchers bound hand and foot,
they would open their gates. On these minimum terms the "Mountain" could terminate the civil
war before the end of July. It had only to follow the example of Robert Lindet who, at Evreux
the home of Buzot, at Caen the home of Charlotte Corday and the central seat of the fugitive
Girondins, established permanent obedience through the moderation he had shown and the promises
he had kept.[1175] The measures that had pacified the most compromised province would have
brought back the others, and through this policy, Paris, without striking a blow, would have
secured the three largest cities in France, the capital of the South-west, that of the South,
and the capital of the Center.

On the contrary, should Paris persist in imposing on them the domination of its local Jacobins
there was a risk of their being thrown into the arms of the enemy. Rather than fall back into
the hands of the bandits who had ransomed and decimated them, Toulon, starved out, was about
to receive the English within its walls and surrender to them the great arsenal of the South.
Not less famished, Bordeaux might be tempted to demand aid from another English fleet; a few
marches would brings the Piedmontese army to Lyons; France would then b cut in two, while the
plan of stirring up the South against the North was proposed to the allies by the most clear-sighted
of their councilors.[1176] Had this plan been carried out it is probably that the country would
have been lost.--In any event, there was danger in driving the insurgents to despair: for,
between the unbridled dictatorship of their victorious assassins and the musketry of the besieging
army, there could be no hesitation by men of any feeling; it was better to be beaten on the
ramparts than allow themselves to be bound for the guillotine; brought to a stand under the
scaffold, their sole resource was to depend on themselves to the last.--Thus, through its unreasonableness,
the "Mountain" condemns itself to a number of sieges or blockades which lasted several months,[1177]
to leaving Var and Savoy unprotected, to exhausting the arsenals, to employing against Frenchmen[1178]
troops and munitions needed against foreigners, and all this at the moment the foreigner was
taking Valenciennes[1179] and Mayence, when thirty thousand royalist were organizing in Lozére,
when the great Vendean army was laying siege to Nantes, when each new outbreak of fighting
was threatening to connect the flaming frontier with the conflagration in the Catholic countries.[1180]--With
a jet of cold water aptly directed, the "Mountain" could extinguish the fires it had kindled
in the great republican towns; otherwise, nothing remained but to let them increase at the
risk of consuming the whole country, with no other hope than that they might at last die out
under a mass of ruins, and with no other object but to rule over captives and the dead.

But this is precisely the Jacobin aim; for, he is not satisfied with less than absolute submission;
he must rule at any cost, just as he pleases, by fair means or foul, no matter over what ruins.
A despot by instinct and installation, his dogma has consecrated him King; he is King by natural
and divine right, in the name of eternal verity, the same as Philip II., enthroned by his religious
system and blessed by his Holy Office. Hence he can abandon no jot or title of his authority
without a sacrifice of principle, nor treat with rebels, unless they surrender at discretion;
simply for having risen against legitimate authority, they are traitors and villains. And who
are greater rascals the renegades who, after three years of patient effort, just as the sect
finally reaches its goal, oppose its accession to power![1181] At Nîmes, Toulouse, Bordeaux,
Toulon, and Lyons, not only have they interfered with or arrested the blow which Paris struck,
but they have put down the aggressors, closed the club, disarmed the fanatical and imprisoned
the leading Maratists; and worse still, at Lyons and at Toulon, five or six massacreurs, or
promoters of massacre, Châlier and Riard, Jassaud, Sylvestre and Lemaille, brought before the
courts, have been condemned and executed after a trial in which all the forms were strictly
adhered to.--That is the inexpiable crime; for, in this trial, the "Mountain" is involved;
the principles of Sylvestre and Châlier are its principles; what is accomplished in Paris,
they have attempted in the provinces; if they are guilty, it is also guilty; it cannot tolerate
their punishment without assenting to its own punishment. Accordingly,

* it must proclaim them heroes and martyrs,

* it must canonize their memory,[1182]

* it must avenge their tortures,

* it must resume and complete their assaults,

* it must restore their accomplices to their places,

* it must render them omnipotent,

* it must force each rebel city to accept the rule of its rabble and villains.

It matters little whether the Jacobins be a minority, whether at Bordeaux, they have but four
out of twenty-eight sections on their side, at Marseilles five out of thirty-two, whether at
Lyons they can count up only fifteen hundred devoted adherents.[1183] Suffrages are not reckoned,
but weighed, for legality is founded, not on numbers, but on patriotism, the sovereign people
being composed wholly of sans-culottes. So much the worse for towns where the anti-revolutionary
majority is so great; they are only more dangerous; under the republican demonstrations is
concealed the hostility of old parties and of the "suspect" classes, the Moderates, the Feuillants
and Royalists, merchants, men of the legal profession, property-owners and muscadins.[1184]
These towns are nests of reptiles and must be crushed out.

IX. Destruction of Rebel Cities

     Bordeaux.--Marseilles.--Lyons.---Toulon.

