When the "revival" came, therefore, one summer, John was in a quandary. Sunday meeting and
Sunday-school he did n't mind; they were a part of regular life, and only temporarily interrupted
a boy's pleasures. But when there began to be evening meetings at the different houses, a new
element came into affairs. There was a kind of solemnity over the community, and a seriousness
in all faces. At first these twilight assemblies offered a little relief to the monotony of
farm life; and John liked to meet the boys and girls, and to watch the older people coming
in, dressed in their second best. I think John's imagination was worked upon by the sweet and
mournful hymns that were discordantly sung in the stiff old parlors. There was a suggestion
of Sunday, and sanctity too, in the odor of caraway-seed that pervaded the room. The windows
were wide open also, and the scent of June roses came in, with all the languishing sounds of
a summer night. All the little boys had a scared look, but the little girls were never so pretty
and demure as in this their susceptible seriousness. If John saw a boy who did not come to
the evening meeting, but was wandering off with his sling down the meadow, looking for frogs,
maybe, that boy seemed to him a monster of wickedness.

After a time, as the meetings continued, John fell also under the general impression of fright
and seriousness. All the talk was of "getting religion," and he heard over and over again that
the probability was if he did not get it now, he never would. The chance did not come often,
and if this offer was not improved, John would be given over to hardness of heart. His obstinacy
would show that he was not one of the elect. John fancied that he could feel his heart hardening,
and he began to look with a wistful anxiety into the faces of the Christians to see what were
the visible signs of being one of the elect. John put on a good deal of a manner that he "did
n't care," and he never admitted his disquiet by asking any questions or standing up in meeting
to be prayed for. But he did care. He heard all the time that all he had to do was to repent
and believe. But there was nothing that he doubted, and he was perfectly willing to repent
if he could think of anything to repent of.

It was essential he learned, that he should have a "conviction of sin." This he earnestly tried
to have. Other people, no better than he, had it, and he wondered why he could n't have it.
Boys and girls whom he knew were "under conviction," and John began to feel not only panicky,
but lonesome. Cynthia Rudd had been anxious for days and days, and not able to sleep at night,
but now she had given herself up and found peace. There was a kind of radiance in her face
that struck John with awe, and he felt that now there was a great gulf between him and Cynthia.
Everybody was going away from him, and his heart was getting harder than ever. He could n't
feel wicked, all he could do. And there was Ed Bates his intimate friend, though older than
he, a "whaling," noisy kind of boy, who was under conviction and sure he was going to be lost.
How John envied him! And pretty soon Ed "experienced religion." John anxiously watched the
change in Ed's face when he became one of the elect. And a change there was. And John wondered
about another thing. Ed Bates used to go trout-fishing, with a tremendously long pole, in a
meadow brook near the river; and when the trout didn't bite right off, Ed would--get mad, and
as soon as one took hold he would give an awful jerk, sending the fish more than three hundred
feet into the air and landing it in the bushes the other side of the meadow, crying out, "Gul
darn ye, I'll learn ye." And John wondered if Ed would take the little trout out any more gently
now.

John felt more and more lonesome as one after another of his playmates came out and made a
profession. Cynthia (she too was older than John) sat on Sunday in the singers' seat; her voice,
which was going to be a contralto, had a wonderful pathos in it for him, and he heard it with
a heartache. "There she is," thought John, "singing away like an angel in heaven, and I am
left out." During all his after life a contralto voice was to John one of his most bitter and
heart-wringing pleasures. It suggested the immaculate scornful, the melancholy unattainable.

If ever a boy honestly tried to work himself into a conviction of sin, John tried. And what
made him miserable was, that he couldn't feel miserable when everybody else was miserable.
He even began to pretend to be so. He put on a serious and anxious look like the others. He
pretended he did n't care for play; he refrained from chasing chipmunks and snaring suckers;
the songs of birds and the bright vivacity of the summer--time that used to make him turn hand-springs
smote him as a discordant levity. He was not a hypocrite at all, and he was getting to be alarmed
that he was not alarmed at himself. Every day and night he heard that the spirit of the Lord
would probably soon quit striving with him, and leave him out. The phrase was that he would
"grieve away the Holy Spirit." John wondered if he was not doing it. He did everything to put
himself in the way of conviction, was constant at the evening meetings, wore a grave face,
refrained from play, and tried to feel anxious. At length he concluded that he must do something.

One night as he walked home from a solemn meeting, at which several of his little playmates
had "come forward," he felt that he could force the crisis. He was alone on the sandy road;
it was an enchanting summer night; the stars danced overhead, and by his side the broad and
shallow river ran over its stony bed with a loud but soothing murmur that filled all the air
with entreaty. John did not then know that it sang, "But I go on forever," yet there was in
it for him something of the solemn flow of the eternal world. When he came in sight of the
house, he knelt down in the dust by a pile of rails and prayed. He prayed that he might feel
bad, and be distressed about himself. As he prayed he heard distinctly, and yet not as a disturbance,
the multitudinous croaking of the frogs by the meadow spring. It was not discordant with his
thoughts; it had in it a melancholy pathos, as if it were a kind of call to the unconverted.
What is there in this sound that suggests the tenderness of spring, the despair of a summer
night, the desolateness of young love? Years after it happened to John to be at twilight at
a railway station on the edge of the Ravenna marshes. A little way over the purple plain he
saw the darkening towers and heard "the sweet bells of Imola." The Holy Pontiff Pius IX. was
born at Imola, and passed his boyhood in that serene and moist region. As the train waited,
John heard from miles of marshes round about the evening song of millions of frogs, louder
and more melancholy and entreating than the vesper call of the bells. And instantly his mind
went back for the association of sound is as subtle as that of odor--to the prayer, years ago,
by the roadside and the plaintive appeal of the unheeded frogs, and he wondered if the little
Pope had not heard the like importunity, and perhaps, when he thought of himself as a little
Pope, associated his conversion with this plaintive sound.

John prayed, but without feeling any worse, and then went desperately into the house, and told
the family that he was in an anxious state of mind. This was joyful news to the sweet and pious
household, and the little boy was urged to feel that he was a sinner, to repent, and to become
that night a Christian; he was prayed over, and told to read the Bible, and put to bed with
the injunction to repeat all the texts of Scripture and hymns he could think of. John did this,
and said over and over the few texts he was master of, and tossed about in a real discontent
now, for he had a dim notion that he was playing the hypocrite a little. But he was sincere
enough in wanting to feel, as the other boys and girls felt, that he was a wicked sinner. He
tried to think of his evil deeds; and one occurred to him; indeed, it often came to his mind.
It was a lie; a deliberate, awful lie, that never injured anybody but himself John knew he
was not wicked enough to tell a lie to injure anybody else.

This was the lie. One afternoon at school, just before John's class was to recite in geography,
his pretty cousin, a young lady he held in great love and respect, came in to visit the school.
John was a favorite with her, and she had come to hear him recite. As it happened, John felt
shaky in the geographical lesson of that day, and he feared to be humiliated in the presence
of his cousin; he felt embarrassed to that degree that he could n't have "bounded" Massachusetts.
So he stood up and raised his hand, and said to the schoolma'am, "Please, ma'am, I 've got
the stomach-ache; may I go home?" And John's character for truthfulness was so high (and even
this was ever a reproach to him), that his word was instantly believed, and he was dismissed
without any medical examination. For a moment John was delighted to get out of school so early;
but soon his guilt took all the light out of the summer sky and the pleasantness out of nature.
He had to walk slowly, without a single hop or jump, as became a diseased boy. The sight of
a woodchuck at a distance from his well-known hole tempted John, but he restrained himself,
lest somebody should see him, and know that chasing a woodchuck was inconsistent with the stomach-ache.
He was acting a miserable part, but it had to be gone through with. He went home and told his
mother the reason he had left school, but he added that he felt "some" better now. The "some"
did n't save him. Genuine sympathy was lavished on him. He had to swallow a stiff dose of nasty
"picra,"--the horror of all childhood, and he was put in bed immediately. The world never looked
so pleasant to John, but to bed he was forced to go. He was excused from all chores; he was
not even to go after the cows. John said he thought he ought to go after the cows,--much as
he hated the business usually, he would now willingly have wandered over the world after cows,--and
for this heroic offer, in the condition he was, he got credit for a desire to do his duty;
and this unjust confidence in him added to his torture. And he had intended to set his hooks
that night for eels. His cousin came home, and sat by his bedside and condoled with him; his
schoolma'am had sent word how sorry she was for him, John was Such a good boy. All this was
dreadful.

He groaned in agony. Besides, he was not to have any supper; it would be very dangerous to
eat a morsel. The prospect was appalling. Never was there such a long twilight; never before
did he hear so many sounds outdoors that he wanted to investigate. Being ill without any illness
was a horrible condition. And he began to have real stomach-ache now; and it ached because
it was empty. John was hungry enough to have eaten the New England Primer. But by and by sleep
came, and John forgot his woes in dreaming that he knew where Madagascar was just as easy as
anything.

It was this lie that came back to John the night he was trying to be affected by the revival.
And he was very much ashamed of it, and believed he would never tell another. But then he fell
thinking whether, with the "picra," and the going to bed in the afternoon, and the loss of
his supper, he had not been sufficiently paid for it. And in this unhopeful frame of mind he
dropped off in sleep.

And the truth must be told, that in the morning John was no nearer to realizing the terrors
he desired to feel. But he was a conscientious boy, and would do nothing to interfere with
the influences of the season. He not only put himself away from them all, but he refrained
from doing almost everything that he wanted to do. There came at that time a newspaper, a secular
newspaper, which had in it a long account of the Long Island races, in which the famous horse
"Lexington" was a runner. John was fond of horses, he knew about Lexington, and he had looked
forward to the result of this race with keen interest. But to read the account of it how he
felt might destroy his seriousness of mind, and in all reverence and simplicity he felt it--be
a means of "grieving away the Holy Spirit." He therefore hid away the paper in a table-drawer,
intending to read it when the revival should be over. Weeks after, when he looked for the newspaper,
it was not to be found, and John never knew what "time" Lexington made nor anything about the
race. This was to him a serious loss, but by no means so deep as another feeling that remained
with him; for when his little world returned to its ordinary course, and long after, John had
an uneasy apprehension of his own separateness from other people, in his insensibility to the
revival. Perhaps the experience was a damage to him; and it is a pity that there was no one
to explain that religion for a little fellow like him is not a "scheme."

XVII. WAR

Every boy who is good for anything is a natural savage. The scientists who want to study the
primitive man, and have so much difficulty in finding one anywhere in this sophisticated age,
couldn't do better than to devote their attention to the common country-boy. He has the primal,
vigorous instincts and impulses of the African savage, without any of the vices inherited from
a civilization long ago decayed or developed in an unrestrained barbaric society. You want
to catch your boy young, and study him before he has either virtues or vices, in order to understand
the primitive man.

Every New England boy desires (or did desire a generation ago, before children were born sophisticated,
with a large library, and with the word "culture" written on their brows) to live by hunting,
fishing, and war. The military instinct, which is the special mark of barbarism, is strong
in him. It arises not alone from his love of fighting, for the boy is naturally as cowardly
as the savage, but from his fondness for display,--the same that a corporal or a general feels
in decking himself in tinsel and tawdry colors and strutting about in view of the female sex.
Half the pleasure in going out to murder another man with a gun would be wanting if one did
not wear feathers and gold-lace and stripes on his pantaloons. The law also takes this view
of it, and will not permit men to shoot each other in plain clothes. And the world also makes
some curious distinctions in the art of killing. To kill people with arrows is barbarous; to
kill them with smooth-bores and flintlock muskets is semi-civilized; to kill them with breech-loading
rifles is civilized. That nation is the most civilized which has the appliances to kill the
most of another nation in the shortest time. This is the result of six thousand years of constant
civilization. By and by, when the nations cease to be boys, perhaps they will not want to kill
each other at all. Some people think the world is very old; but here is an evidence that it
is very young, and, in fact, has scarcely yet begun to be a world. When the volcanoes have
done spouting, and the earthquakes are quaked out, and you can tell what land is going to be
solid and keep its level twenty-four hours, and the swamps are filled up, and the deltas of
the great rivers, like the Mississippi and the Nile, become terra firma, and men stop killing
their fellows in order to get their land and other property, then perhaps there will be a world
that an angel would n't weep over. Now one half the world are employed in getting ready to
kill the other half, some of them by marching about in uniform, and the others by hard work
to earn money to pay taxes to buy uniforms and guns.

John was not naturally very cruel, and it was probably the love of display quite as much as
of fighting that led him into a military life; for he, in common with all his comrades, had
other traits of the savage. One of them was the same passion for ornament that induces the
African to wear anklets and bracelets of hide and of metal, and to decorate himself with tufts
of hair, and to tattoo his body. In John's day there was a rage at school among the boys for
wearing bracelets woven of the hair of the little girls. Some of them were wonderful specimens
of braiding and twist. These were not captured in war, but were sentimental tokens of friendship
given by the young maidens themselves. John's own hair was kept so short (as became a warrior)
that you couldn't have made a bracelet out of it, or anything except a paintbrush; but the
little girls were not under military law, and they willingly sacrificed their tresses to decorate
the soldiers they esteemed. As the Indian is honored in proportion to the scalps he can display,
at John's school the boy was held in highest respect who could show the most hair trophies
on his wrist. John himself had a variety that would have pleased a Mohawk, fine and coarse
and of all colors. There were the flaxen, the faded straw, the glossy black, the lustrous brown,
the dirty yellow, the undecided auburn, and the fiery red. Perhaps his pulse beat more quickly
under the red hair of Cynthia Rudd than on account of all the other wristlets put together;
it was a sort of gold-tried-in-the-fire-color to John, and burned there with a steady flame.
Now that Cynthia had become a Christian, this band of hair seemed a more sacred if less glowing
possession (for all detached hair will fade in time), and if he had known anything about saints,
he would have imagined that it was a part of the aureole that always goes with a saint. But
I am bound to say that while John had a tender feeling for this red string, his sentiment was
not that of the man who becomes entangled in the meshes of a woman's hair; and he valued rather
the number than the quality of these elastic wristlets.

John burned with as real a military ardor as ever inflamed the breast of any slaughterer of
his fellows. He liked to read of war, of encounters with the Indians, of any kind of wholesale
killing in glittering uniform, to the noise of the terribly exciting fife and drum, which maddened
the combatants and drowned the cries of the wounded. In his future he saw himself a soldier
with plume and sword and snug-fitting, decorated clothes,--very different from his somewhat
roomy trousers and country-cut roundabout, made by Aunt Ellis, the village tailoress, who cut
out clothes, not according to the shape of the boy, but to what he was expected to grow to,--going
where glory awaited him. In his observation of pictures, it was the common soldier who was
always falling and dying, while the officer stood unharmed in the storm of bullets and waved
his sword in a heroic attitude. John determined to be an officer.

It is needless to say that he was an ardent member of the military company of his village.
He had risen from the grade of corporal to that of first lieutenant; the captain was a boy
whose father was captain of the grown militia company, and consequently had inherited military
aptness and knowledge. The old captain was a flaming son of Mars, whose nose militia, war,
general training, and New England rum had painted with the color of glory and disaster. He
was one of the gallant old soldiers of the peaceful days of our country, splendid in uniform,
a martinet in drill, terrible in oaths, a glorious object when he marched at the head of his
company of flintlock muskets, with the American banner full high advanced, and the clamorous
drum defying the world. In this he fulfilled his duties of citizen, faithfully teaching his
uniformed companions how to march by the left leg, and to get reeling drunk by sundown; otherwise
he did n't amount to much in the community; his house was unpainted, his fences were tumbled
down, his farm was a waste, his wife wore an old gown to meeting, to which the captain never
went; but he was a good trout-fisher, and there was no man in town who spent more time at the
country store and made more shrewd observations upon the affairs of his neighbors. Although
he had never been in an asylum any more than he had been in war, he was almost as perfect a
drunkard as he was soldier. He hated the British, whom he had never seen, as much as he loved
rum, from which he was never separated.

The company which his son commanded, wearing his father's belt and sword, was about as effective
as the old company, and more orderly. It contained from thirty to fifty boys, according to
the pressure of "chores" at home, and it had its great days of parade and its autumn maneuvers,
like the general training. It was an artillery company, which gave every boy a chance to wear
a sword, and it possessed a small mounted cannon, which was dragged about and limbered and
unlimbered and fired, to the imminent danger of everybody, especially of the company. In point
of marching, with all the legs going together, and twisting itself up and untwisting breaking
into single-file (for Indian fighting), and forming platoons, turning a sharp corner, and getting
out of the way of a wagon, circling the town pump, frightening horses, stopping short in front
of the tavern, with ranks dressed and eyes right and left, it was the equal of any military
organization I ever saw. It could train better than the big company, and I think it did more
good in keeping alive the spirit of patriotism and desire to fight. Its discipline was strict.
If a boy left the ranks to jab a spectator, or make faces at a window, or "go for" a striped
snake, he was "hollered" at no end.

It was altogether a very serious business; there was no levity about the hot and hard marching,
and as boys have no humor, nothing ludicrous occurred. John was very proud of his office, and
of his ability to keep the rear ranks closed up and ready to execute any maneuver when the
captain "hollered," which he did continually. He carried a real sword, which his grandfather
had worn in many a militia campaign on the village green, the rust upon which John fancied
was Indian blood; he had various red and yellow insignia of military rank sewed upon different
parts of his clothes, and though his cocked hat was of pasteboard, it was decorated with gilding
and bright rosettes, and floated a red feather that made his heart beat with martial fury whenever
he looked at it. The effect of this uniform upon the girls was not a matter of conjecture.
I think they really cared nothing about it, but they pretended to think it fine, and they fed
the poor boy's vanity, the weakness by which women govern the world.

The exalted happiness of John in this military service I daresay was never equaled in any subsequent
occupation. The display of the company in the village filled him with the loftiest heroism.
There was nothing wanting but an enemy to fight, but this could only be had by half the company
staining themselves with elderberry juice and going into the woods as Indians, to fight the
artillery from behind trees with bows and arrows, or to ambush it and tomahawk the gunners.
This, however, was made to seem very like real war. Traditions of Indian cruelty were still
fresh in western Massachusetts. Behind John's house in the orchard were some old slate tombstones,
sunken and leaning, which recorded the names of Captain Moses Rice and Phineas Arms, who had
been killed by Indians in the last century while at work in the meadow by the river, and who
slept there in the hope of the glorious resurrection. Phineas Arms martial name--was long since
dust, and even the mortal part of the great Captain Moses Rice had been absorbed in the soil
and passed perhaps with the sap up into the old but still blooming apple-trees. It was a quiet
place where they lay, but they might have heard--if hear they could--the loud, continuous roar
of the Deerfield, and the stirring of the long grass on that sunny slope. There was a tradition
that years ago an Indian, probably the last of his race, had been seen moving along the crest
of the mountain, and gazing down into the lovely valley which had been the favorite home of
his tribe, upon the fields where he grew his corn, and the sparkling stream whence he drew
his fish. John used to fancy at times, as he sat there, that he could see that red specter
gliding among the trees on the hill; and if the tombstone suggested to him the trump of judgment,
he could not separate it from the war-whoop that had been the last sound in the ear of Phineas
Arms. The Indian always preceded murder by the war-whoop; and this was an advantage that the
artillery had in the fight with the elderberry Indians. It was warned in time. If there was
no war-whoop, the killing did n't count; the artillery man got up and killed the Indian. The
Indian usually had the worst of it; he not only got killed by the regulars, but he got whipped
by the home guard at night for staining himself and his clothes with the elderberry.

But once a year the company had a superlative parade. This was when the military company from
the north part of the town joined the villagers in a general muster. This was an infantry company,
and not to be compared with that of the village in point of evolutions. There was a great and
natural hatred between the north town boys and the center. I don't know why, but no contiguous
African tribes could be more hostile. It was all right for one of either section to "lick"
the other if he could, or for half a dozen to "lick" one of the enemy if they caught him alone.
The notion of honor, as of mercy, comes into the boy only when he is pretty well grown; to
some neither ever comes. And yet there was an artificial military courtesy (something like
that existing in the feudal age, no doubt) which put the meeting of these two rival and mutually
detested companies on a high plane of behavior. It was beautiful to see the seriousness of
this lofty and studied condescension on both sides. For the time everything was under martial
law. The village company being the senior, its captain commanded the united battalion in the
march, and this put John temporarily into the position of captain, with the right to march
at the head and "holler;" a responsibility which realized all his hopes of glory. I suppose
there has yet been discovered by man no gratification like that of marching at the head of
a column in uniform on parade, unless, perhaps, it is marching at their head when they are
leaving a field of battle. John experienced all the thrill of this conspicuous authority, and
I daresay that nothing in his later life has so exalted him in his own esteem; certainly nothing
has since happened that was so important as the events of that parade day seemed. He satiated
himself with all the delights of war.

XVIII. COUNTRY SCENES

