A brother like this was a great annoyance to Madame de Maintenon.  His wife, an obscure creature,
more obscure, if possible, than her birth; --foolish to the last degree, and of humble mien,
was almost equally so. Madame de Maintenon determined to rid herself of both.  She persuaded
her brother to enter a society that had been established by a M. Doyen, at St. Sulpice, for
decayed gentlemen.  His wife at the same time was induced to retire into another community,
where, however, she did not fail to say to her companions that her fate was very hard, and
that she wished to be free.  As for d'Aubigne he concealed from nobody that his sister was
putting a joke on him by trying to persuade him that he was devout, declared that he was pestered
by priests, and that he should give up the ghost in M. Doyen's house.  He could not stand it
long, and went back to his girls and to the Tuileries, and wherever he could; but they caught
him again, and placed him under the guardianship of one of the stupidest priests of St. Sulpice,
who followed him everywhere like his shadow, and made him miserable.  The fellow's name was
Madot: he was good for no other employment, but gained his pay in this one by an assiduity
of which perhaps no one else would have been capable.  The only child of this Comte d'Aubigne
was a daughter, taken care of by Madame de Maintenon, and educated under her eyes as though
her own child.

Towards the end of the year, and not long after my return from the army, the King fixed the
day for the marriage of the Duc de Bourgogne to the young Princesse de Savoy.  He announced
that on that occasion he should be glad to see a magnificent Court; and he himself, who for
a long time had worn only the most simple habits, ordered the most superb.  This was enough;
no one thought of consulting his purse or his state; everyone tried to surpass his neighbour
in richness and invention.  Gold and silver scarcely sufficed: the shops of the dealers were
emptied in a few days; in a word luxury the most unbridled reigned over Court and city, for
the fete had a huge crowd of spectators.  Things went to such a point, that the King almost
repented of what he had said, and remarked, that he could not understand how husbands could
be such fools as to ruin themselves by dresses for their wives; he might have added, by dresses
for themselves.  But the impulse had been given; there was now no time to remedy it, and I
believe the King at heart was glad; for it pleased him during the fetes to look at all the
dresses.  He loved passionately all kinds of sumptuosity at his Court; and he who should have
held only to what had been said, as to the folly of expense, would have grown little in favour.
There was no means, therefore, of being wise among so many fools.  Several dresses were necessary.
Those for Madame Saint-Simon and myself cost us twenty thousand francs.  Workmen were wanting
to make up so many rich habits.  Madame la Duchesse actually sent her people to take some by
force who were working at the Duc de Rohan's!  The King heard of it, did not like it, and had
the workmen sent back immediately to the Hotel de Rohan, although the Duc de Rohan was one
of the men he liked the least in all France.  The King did another thing, which showed that
he desired everybody to be magnificent: he himself chose the design for the embroidery of the
Princess.  The embroiderer said he would leave all his other designs for that.  The King would
not permit this, but caused him to finish the work he had in hand, and to set himself afterwards
at the other; adding, that if it was not ready in time, the Princess could do without it.

The marriage was fixed for Saturday, the 7th of December; and, to avoid disputes and difficulties,
the King suppressed all ceremonies.  The day arrived.  At an early hour all the Court went
to Monseigneur the Duc de Bourgogne, who went afterwards to the Princess.  A little before
mid-day the procession started from the salon, and proceeded to the chapel.

Cardinal de Coislin performed the marriage service.

As soon as the ceremony was finished, a courier, ready at the door of the chapel, started for
Turin.  The day passed wearily.  The King and Queen of England came about seven o'clock in
the evening, and some time afterwards supper was served.  Upon rising from the table, the Princess
was shown to her bed, none but ladies being allowed to remain in the chamber.  Her chemise
was given her by the Queen of England through the Duchesse de Lude.  The Duc de Bourgogne undressed
in another room, in the midst of all the Court, and seated upon a folding-chair.  The King
of England gave him his shirt, which was presented by the Duc de Beauvilliers.  As soon as
the Duchesse de Bourgogne was in bed, the Duc de Bourgogne entered, and placed himself at her
side, in the presence of all the Court.  Immediately afterwards everybody went away from the
nuptial chamber, except Monseigneur, the ladies of the Princess, and the Duc de Beauvilliers,
who remained at the pillow by the side of his pupil, with the Duchesse de Lude on the other
side.  Monseigneur stopped a quarter of an hour talking with the newly-married couple, then
he made his son get up, after having told him to kiss the Princess, in spite of the opposition
of the Duchesse de Lude.  As it proved, too, her opposition was not wrong.  The King said he
did not wish that his grandson should kiss the end of the Princess's finger until they were
completely on the footing of man and wife.  Monsieur le Duc de Bourgogne after this re-dressed
himself in the ante-chamber, and went to his own bed as usual.  The little Duc de Berry, spirited
and resolute, did not approve of the docility of his brother, and declared that he would have
remained in bed.  The young couple were not, indeed, allowed to live together as man and wife
until nearly two years afterwards.  The first night that this privilege was granted them, the
King repaired to their chamber hoping to surprise them as they went to bed; but he found the
doors closed, and would not allow them to be opened.  The marriage-fetes spread over several
days.  On the Sunday there was an assembly in the apartments of the new Duchesse de Bourgogne.
It was magnificent by the prodigious number of ladies seated in a circle, or standing behind
the stools, gentlemen in turn behind them, and the dresses of all beautiful. It commenced at
six o'clock.  The King came at the end, and led all the ladies into the saloon near the chapel,
where was a fine collation, and the music.  At nine o'clock he conducted Monsieur and Madame
la Duchesse de Bourgogne to the apartment of the latter, and all was finished for the day.
The Princess continued to live just as before, and the ladies had strict orders never to leave
her alone with her husband.

On the Wednesday there was a grand ball in the gallery, superbly ornamented for the occasion.
There was such a crowd, and such disorder, that even the King was inconvenienced, and Monsieur
was pushed and knocked about in the crush.  How other people fared may be imagined.  No place
was kept--strength or chance decided everything--people squeezed in where they could.  This
spoiled all the fete.  About nine o'clock refreshments were handed round, and at half-past
ten supper was served. Only the Princesses of the blood and the royal family were admitted
to it.  On the following Sunday there was another ball, but this time matters were so arranged
that no crowding or inconvenience occurred.  The ball commenced at seven o'clock and was admirable;
everybody appeared in dresses that had not previously been seen.  The King found that of Madame
de Saint-Simon much to his taste, and gave it the palm over all the others.

Madame de Maintenon did not appear at these balls, at least only for half an hour at each.
On the following Tuesday all the Court went at four o'clock in the afternoon to Trianon, where
all gambled until the arrival of the King and Queen of England.  The King took them into the
theatre, where Destouches's opera of Isse was very well performed.  The opera being finished,
everybody went his way, and thus these marriage-fetes were brought to an end.

Tesse had married his eldest daughter to La Varenne last year, and now married his second daughter
to Maulevrier, son of a brother of Colbert. This mention of La Varenne brings to my recollection
a very pleasant anecdote of his ancestor, the La Varenne so known in all the memoirs of the
time as having risen from the position of scullion to that of cook, and then to that of cloak-bearer
to Henry IV., whom he served in his pleasures, and afterwards in his state-affairs.  At the
death of the King, La Varenne retired, very old and very rich, into the country. Birds were
much in vogue at that time, and he often amused himself with falconry.  One day a magpie perched
on one of his trees, and neither sticks nor stones could dislodge it.  La Varenne and a number
of sportsmen gathered around the tree and tried to drive away the magpie. Importuned with all
this noise, the bird at last began to cry repeatedly with all its might, "Pandar!  Pandar!"

Now La Varenne had gained all he possessed by that trade.  Hearing the magpie repeat again
and again the same word, he took it into his head that by a miracle, like the observation Balaam's
ass made to his master, the bird was reproaching him for his sins.  He was so troubled that
he could not help showing it; then, more and more agitated, he told the cause of his disturbance
to the company, who laughed at him in the first place, but, upon finding that he was growing
really ill, they endeavoured to convince him that the magpie belonged to a neighbouring village,
where it had learned the word.  It was all in vain: La Varenne was so ill that he was obliged
to be carried home; fever seized him and in four days he died.

CHAPTER XII

Here perhaps is the place to speak of Charles IV., Duc de Lorraine, so well known by his genius,
and the extremities to which he was urged.  He was married in 1621 to the Duchesse Nicole,
his cousin-german, but after a time ceased to live with her.  Being at Brussels he fell in
love with Madame de Cantecroix, a widow.  He bribed a courier to bring him news of the death
of the Duchesse Nicole; he circulated the report throughout the town, wore mourning, and fourteen
days afterwards, in April, 1637, married Madame de Cantecroix.  In a short time it was discovered
that the Duchesse Nicole was full of life and health, and had not even been ill. Madame de
Cantecroix made believe that she had been duped, but still lived with the Duke.  They continued
to repute the Duchesse Nicole as dead, and lived together in the face of the world as though
effectually married, although there had never been any question either before or since of dissolving
the first marriage.  The Duc Charles had by this fine marriage a daughter and then a son, both
perfectly illegitimate, and universally regarded as such.  Of these the daughter married Comte
de Lislebonne, by whom she had four children.  The son, educated under his father's eye as
legitimate, was called Prince de Vaudemont, and by that name has ever since been known.  He
entered the service of Spain, distinguished himself in the army, obtained the support of the
Prince of Orange, and ultimately rose to the very highest influence and prosperity. People
were astonished this year, that while the Princess of Savoy was at Fontainebleau, just before
her marriage, she was taken several times by Madame de Maintenon to a little unknown convent
at Moret, where there was nothing to amuse her, and no nuns who were known.  Madame de Maintenon
often went there, and Monseigneur with his children sometimes; the late Queen used to go also.
This awakened much curiosity and gave rise to many reports.  It seems that in this convent
there was a woman of colour, a Moorish woman, who had been placed there very young by Bontems,
valet of the King.  She received the utmost care and attention, but never was shown to anybody.
When the late Queen or Madame de Maintenon went, they did not always see her, but always watched
over her welfare.  She was treated with more consideration than people the most distinguished;
and herself made much of the care that was taken of her, and the mystery by which she was surrounded.
Although she lived regularly, it was easy to see she was not too contented with her position.
Hearing Monseigneur hunt in the forest one day, she forgot herself so far as to exclaim, "My
brother is hunting!"  It was pretended that she was a daughter of the King and Queen, but that
she had been hidden away on account of her colour; and the report was spread that the Queen
had had a miscarriage. Many people believed this story; but whether it was true or not has
remained an enigma.

The year 1698 commenced by a reconciliation between the Jesuits and the Archbishop of Rheims.
That prelate upon the occasion of an ordinance had expressed himself upon matters of doctrine
and morality in a manner that displeased the Jesuits.  They acted towards him in their usual
manner, by writing an attack upon him, which appeared without any author's name. But the Archbishop
complained to the King, and altogether stood his ground so firmly, that in the end the Jesuits
were glad to give way, disavow the book, and arrange the reconciliation which took place.

The Czar, Peter the Great, Emperor of Russia, had at this time already commenced his voyages;
he was in Holland, learning ship-building. Although incognito, he wished to be recognised,
but after his own fashion; and was annoyed that, being so near to England, no embassy was sent
to him from that country, which he wished to ally himself with for commercial reasons.

At last an embassy arrived; he delayed for some time to give it an audience, but in the end
fixed the day and hour at which he would see it. The reception, however, was to take place
on board a large Dutch vessel that he was going to examine.  There were two ambassadors; they
thought the meeting-place rather an odd one, but were obliged to go there.  When they arrived
on board the Czar sent word that he was in the "top," and that it was there he would see them.
The ambassadors, whose feet were unaccustomed to rope-ladders, tried to excuse themselves from
mounting; but it was all in vain.  The Czar would receive them in the "top" or not at all.
At last they were compelled to ascend, and the meeting took place on that narrow place high
up in the air.  The Czar received them there with as much majesty as though he had been upon
his throne, listened to their harangue, replied very graciously, and then laughed at the fear
painted upon their faces, and good-humouredly gave them to understand that he had punished
them thus for arriving so late.

After this the Czar passed into England, curious to see and learn as much as possible; and,
having well fulfilled his views, repaired into Holland. He wished to visit France, but the
King civilly declined to receive him. He went, therefore, much mortified, to Vienna instead.
Three weeks after his arrival he was informed of a conspiracy that had been formed against
him in Moscow.  He hastened there at once, and found that it was headed by his own sister;
he put her in prison, and hanged her most guilty accomplices to the bars of his windows, as
many each day as the bars would hold.  I have related at once all that regards the Czar for
this year, in order not to leap without ceasing from one matter to another; I shall do this,
and for the same reason, with that which follows.

The King of England was, as I have before said, at the height of satisfaction at having been
recognised by the King (Louis XIV.), and at finding himself secure upon the throne.  But a
usurper is never tranquil and content.  William was annoyed by the residence of the legitimate
King and his family at Saint Germains.  It was too close to the King (of France), and too near
England to leave him without disquietude.  He had tried hard at Ryswick to obtain the dismissal
of James II.  from the realm, or at least from the Court of France, but without effect. Afterwards
he sent the Duke of St. Albans to our King openly, in order to compliment him upon the marriage
of the Duc de Bourgogne, but in reality to obtain the dismissal.

The Duke of St. Albans meeting with no success, the Duke of Portland was sent to succeed him.
The Duke of Portland came over with a numerous and superb suite; he kept up a magnificent table,
and had horses, liveries, furniture, and dresses of the most tasteful and costly kind.  He
was on his way when a fire destroyed Whitehall, the largest and ugliest palace in Europe, and
which has not since been rebuilt; so that the kings are lodged, and very badly, at St. James's
Palace.

Portland had his first audience of the King on the 4th of February, and remained four months
in France.  His politeness, his courtly and gallant manners, and the good cheer he gave, charmed
everybody, and made him universally popular.  It became the fashion to give fetes in his honour;
and the astonishing fact is, that the King, who at heart was more offended than ever with William
of Orange, treated this ambassador with the most marked distinction.  One evening he even gave
Portland his bedroom candlestick, a favour only accorded to the most considerable persons,
and always regarded as a special mark of the King's bounty.

Notwithstanding all these attentions, Portland was as unsuccessful as his predecessor.  The
King had firmly resolved to continue his protection to James II., and nothing could shake this
determination.  Portland was warned from the first, that if he attempted to speak to the King
upon the point, his labour would be thrown away; he wisely therefore kept silence, and went
home again without in any way having fulfilled the mission upon which he had been sent.

We had another distinguished foreigner arrive in France about this time, --I mean, the Prince
of Parma, respecting whom I remember a pleasing adventure.  At Fontainebleau more great dancing-parties
are given than elsewhere, and Cardinal d'Estrees wished to give one there in honour of this
Prince.  I and many others were invited to the banquet; but the Prince himself, for whom the
invitation was specially provided, was forgotten.  The Cardinal had given invitations right
and left, but by some omission the Prince had not had one sent to him.  On the morning of the
dinner this discovery was made.  The Prince was at once sent to, but he was engaged, and for
several days.  The dinner therefore took place without him; the Cardinal was much laughed at
for his absence of mind. He was often similarly forgetful.

The Bishop of Poitiers died at the commencement of this year, and his bishopric was given at
Easter to the Abbe de Caudelet.  The Abbe was a very good man, but made himself an enemy, who
circulated the blackest calumnies against him.  Amongst other impostures it was said that the
Abbe had gambled all Good Friday; the truth being, that in the evening, after all the services
were over, he went to see the Marechale de Crequi, who prevailed upon him to amuse her for
an hour by playing at piquet. But the calumny had such effect, that the bishopric of Poitiers
was taken from him, and he retired into Brittany, where he passed the rest of his life in solitude
and piety.  His brother in the meantime fully proved to Pere de la Chaise the falsehood of
this accusation; and he, who was upright and good, did all he could to bestow some other living
upon the Abbe, in recompense for that he had been stripped of.  But the King would not consent,
although often importuned, and even reproached for his cruelty.

It was known, too, who was the author of the calumny.  It was the Abbe de la Chatre, who for
a long time had been chaplain to the King, and who was enraged against everyone who was made
bishop before him.  He was a man not wanting in intelligence, but bitter, disagreeable, punctilious;
very ignorant, because he would never study, and so destitute of morality, that I saw him say
mass in the chapel on Ash Wednesday, after having passed a night, masked at a ball, where he
said and did the most filthy things, as seen and heard by M. de La Vrilliere, before whom he
unmasked, and who related this to me: half an hour after, I met the Abbe de la Chatre, dressed
and going to the altar.  Other adventures had already deprived him of all chance of being made
bishop by the King.

The old Villars died at this time.  I have already mentioned him as having been made chevalier
d'honneur to the Duchesse de Chartres at her marriage.  I mention him now, because I omitted
to say before the origin of his name of Orondat, by which he was generally known, and which
did not displease him.  This is the circumstance that gave rise to it. Madame de Choisy, a
lady of the fashionable world, went one day to see the Comtesse de Fiesque, and found there
a large company.  The Countess had a young girl living with her, whose name was Mademoiselle
d'Outrelaise, but who was called the Divine.  Madame de Choisy, wishing to go into the bedroom,
said she would go there, and see the Divine. Mounting rapidly, she found in the chamber a young
and very pretty girl, Mademoiselle Bellefonds, and a man, who escaped immediately upon seeing
her.  The face of this man being perfectly well made, so struck her, that, upon coming down
again, she said it could only be that of Orondat. Now that romances are happily no longer read,
it is necessary to say that Orondat is a character in Cyrus, celebrated by his figure and his
good looks, and who charmed all the heroines of that romance, which was then much in vogue.
The greater part of the company knew that Villars was upstairs to see Mademoiselle de Bellefonds,
with whom he was much in love, and whom he soon afterwards married.  Everybody therefore smiled
at this adventure of Orondat, and the name clung ever afterwards to Villars.

The Prince de Conti lost, before this time, his son, Prince la Roche-sur- Yon, who was only
four years old.  The King wore mourning for him, although it was the custom not to do so for
children under seven years of age.  But the King had already departed from this custom for
one of the children of M. du Maine, and he dared not afterwards act differently towards the
children of a prince of the blood.  Just at the end of September, M. du Maine lost another
child, his only son.  The King wept very much, and, although the child was considerably under
seven years of age, wore mourning for it.  The marriage of Mademoiselle to M. de Lorraine was
then just upon the point of taking place; and Monsieur (father of Mademoiselle) begged that
this mourning might be laid aside when the marriage was celebrated.  The King agreed, but Madame
la Duchesse and the Princesse de Conti believed it apparently beneath them to render this respect
to Monsieur, and refused to comply.  The King commanded them to do so, but they pushed the
matter so far as to say that they had no other clothes.  Upon this, the King ordered them to
send and get some directly.  They were obliged to obey, and admit themselves vanquished; but
they did so not without great vexation.  M. de Cambrai's affairs still continued to make a
great stir among the prelates and at the Court.  Madame Guyon was transferred from the Vincennes
to the Bastille, and it was believed she would remain there all her life.  The Ducs de Chevreuse
and Beauvilliers lost all favour with M. de Maintenon, and narrowly escaped losing the favour
of the King.  An attempt was in fact made, which Madame de Maintenon strongly supported, to
get them disgraced; and, but for the Archbishop of Paris, this would have taken place.  But
this prelate, thoroughly upright and conscientious, counselled the King against such a step,
to the great vexation of his relations, who were the chief plotters in the conspiracy to overthrow
the two Dukes.  As for M. de Cambrai's book 'Les Maxinies des Saints', it was as little liked
as ever, and underwent rather a strong criticism at this time from M. de La Trappe, which did
not do much to improve its reputation.  At the commencement of the dispute M. de Meaux had
sent a copy of 'Les Maximes des Saints' to M. de La Trappe, asking as a friend for his opinion
of the work.  M. de La Trappe read it, and was much scandalized.  The more he studied it, the
more this sentiment penetrated him.  At last, after having well examined the book, he sent
his opinion to M. de Meaux, believing it would be considered as private, and not be shown to
anybody.  He did not measure his words, therefore, but wrote openly, that if M. de Cambrai
was right he might burn the Evangelists, and complain of Jesus Christ, who could have come
into the world only to deceive us.  The frightful force of this phrase was so terrifying, that
M. de Meaux thought it worthy of being shown to Madame de Maintenon; and she, seeking only
to crush M. de Cambrai with all the authorities possible, would insist upon this opinion of
M. de La Trappe being printed.

It may be imagined what triumphing there was on the one side, and what piercing cries on the
other.  The friends of M. de Cambrai complained most bitterly that M. de La Trappe had mixed
himself up in the matter, and had passed such a violent and cruel sentence upon a book then
under the consideration of the Pope.  M. de La Trappe on his side was much afflicted that his
letter had been published.  He wrote to M. de Meaux protesting against this breach of confidence;
and said that, although he had only expressed what he really thought, he should have been careful
to use more measured language, had he supposed his letter would have seen the light.  He said
all he could to heal the wounds his words had caused, but M. de Cambrai and his friends never
forgave him for having written them.

