As the native and exotic herbs of this tea are dried in a pure air, without any artificial
means of preparation to improve their colour or increase their natural astringency, they must
be free from those deleterious, corrosive, and violent contractive effects with which we have
observed the general and indiscriminate use of foreign teas and mineral waters are attended.
In the first part of this Essay, it was stated that foreign teas were dried upon iron, and
thus produced those astringent effects we have seen to characterize chalybeate waters. It is
therefore evident, that the simple preparation of these salutary herbs being free from what
renders teas and mineral waters in many cases pernicious, must leave their qualities pure and
unadulterated, according to the intent and principle of nature in their production. They are,
therefore, found particularly free from those injurious properties which render green tea so
destructive to emaciated constitutions. Instead of being, like the above foreign tea, hurtful
to those worn down by a long fever, or such as have weak and delicate stomachs, their qualities
are in such complaints essentially nutritious and restorative. That stimulating roughness,
which foreign teas imbibe from their iron preparation, is not to be found in the sanative tea
discovered by Dr. Solander; the latter is therefore very beneficial where the mucous coat of
the bowels is very thin, or the ramification of the nerves numerous, extensive, and exquisitely
sensible of impression. The cholic, gripes, or painful prickings of the nervous coat by the
India teas, are allayed by the drinking of the sanative tea, from its tepid and lubricating
nature not being perverted by any corrosive preparation. To thin and meagre bodies, which are
greatly affected by green and bohea teas, the above is a most restorative aliment. The atrophy
and diabetes, so frequently caused by the foreign teas, are, from the herbs of Dr. Solander's
tea possessing their natural nutritious qualities uncontaminated by metallic preparation, often
cured by using it as a morning and evening beverage; and the depression of spirits occasioned
by green and bohea, and which induces many of its drinkers to take sal volatile, or spirits
of hartshorn, is avoided by the sanative tea; for the latter is found one of the greatest and
most salutary exhilarators of the nervous system. And thus those who drink it as a constant
aliment, are saved from the dangers that attend rendering the blood too thin by the use of
the above volatile alkalies, or drams, which are too frequently taken to avoid that lowness
of spirits caused by the great, sudden, and violent contraction of the nervous fibrillæ. As
the inconveniencies of the foreign teas arise from the metallic properties derived from their
preparation, the advantages of the sanative tea are evidently seen to arise from the preparation
being such as leaves every herb possessed of its natural and essential quality. This clearly
evincing the superiority of Dr. Solander's tea to every herbal beverage, it only remains to
proceed to the two remaining enquiries respecting the mode of using and the effects of this
salutary combination of vegetables. The next subject, therefore, of investigation is the

MANNER OF USING.

As the time of drinking this tea is morning and evening, it is necessary to enquire whether
its qualities are such as are calculated to suit the temporary necessities of nature at those
periods. From what has been observed respecting foreign teas, it is evident that their properties
are diametrically opposite to those which nature at such times requires. When the body is exhausted
by insensible perspiration, the most requisite aliment is that which can equally restore the
loss of the solids and the languid flow of the animal spirits. What is then taken ought therefore
to be neither too heavy for the state of the unbraced system; nor too volatile, to afford a
sufficient quantity of nutritive juices to the whole animal economy. Nor should the aliment
be so stimulating as to disorder instead of re-establishing the equalized motion of the yet
perturbed state of the animal spirits. What is then given should have the power of sedating
the nervous fluids, while it disseminates through the viscera the elements of nutrition. These
being the requisite properties of what is taken as a breakfast, it remains to consider whether
those of the sanative tea are adequate to such indispensible purposes.

In the preceding part of this enquiry, it has been found that the principal qualities of this
tea are moderately astringent, balsamic, and aromatic; it is therefore evident, that, from
a combination of these eminent medical principles, this tea must operate as a sedator of perturbation,
a renovator of exhausted solids, and an exhilarator of nervous depression. It may therefore
be used as a morning beverage with the greatest advantage, for the preservation and re-establishment
of health; for never were the qualities of any aliment so particularly adapted to the necessities
of the body at any stated period as those of the sanative tea are at the time of breakfast.
Without loading the exhausted viscera, they afford it a sufficiency of balsamic and nutritive
aliment; nor does the sanative tea, by sedating the fluttering spirits, destroy their vigour;
but, on the contrary, by calming their motion, they contribute more active energy by promoting
their equalized progress; and thus is the animal economy restored to the proper use and enjoyment
of its functions. And in proportion as the spirits are restored to an equilibrium of motion
and fluidity, the relaxed tone of the nerves is recovered, and the whole functions of man rendered
capable of exercise and enjoyment.

The above being stated as the advantages attending the use of the sanative tea in the morning,
it is next expedient to consider what benefit is derived from the use of it in the afternoon.

At this time the body is in a very different state of temperature from that of the morning.
By the toil, care, study, or amusement of the former part of the day, the solids are wasted,
and the fluids in a state of ferment and evaporation. Added to this, the aliment which is taken
at dinner time so exhausts the animal warmth, as to leave the whole body in a state of refrigeration.
What is therefore taken in this situation should be neither relaxing, constipating, nor heating;
it should possess a genial warmth, a cordial assistant, and a restorative nutriment. The first
should be such as to supply the deficiency of warmth which the body feels by the act of digestion,
without inflaming the blood, or too greatly increasing the pulse. The second, or cordial assistant,
should rather increase the powers of the body than those of the heart; for the force of the
heart may be increased to the detriment of health. This is evident from a weakness of the body
being the consequence of the force of the heart being increased in an inflammatory fever. And
with regard to what is taken in the afternoon requiring a restorative nutriment, it is necessary
that it should be light, pure, and wholesome, lest its solidity and heaviness should oppress
the bowels at a time when their tone is relaxed by recent fatigue and digestion. These qualities
being the most proper to produce fresh animal spirits, are the most fit to be taken when a
new accession of them is necessary. It has been observed those are the most robust whose serum
resembles most the white of an egg. It has therefore been most rationally concluded, that the
origin of the animal spirits is from aliments capable of being changed into a similar substance,
but so attenuated by incalation as to concrete by fire. For this reason the greatest support
of the spirits is afforded by light and nourishing meats and drinks, which in taste and smell
are even agreeable to infants. All cordials and aromatics are consequently the most proper
for such purposes, and at such times, when heavier foods would impress, instead of recruiting,
the exhausted solids and fluids. It is therefore Boerhaave recommends such aromatics, for the
reviving and recruiting the animal spirits, as have the most pleasing taste and smell. Agreeably
to this opinion, Dr. Solander employed his researches to form an afternoon beverage of such
herbs as should possess all the above cardiac and balsamic qualities. The use of the sanative
tea between dinner and supper operates as the most reviving and wholesome aliment that can,
at such a time, be possibly taken. An enquiry having been made into the nature, preparation,
and manner of using the sanative tea, there only remains to conclude this Second Part of the
Essay with the consideration of its

EFFECTS.

From the view that has been taken of the nature, preparation, and manner of using, the salutary
effects are most clearly and easily to be ascertained. As the basis of this tea is the combined
principle of the most balsamic oils, nutritious salts, and animating sulphurs, which the vegetable
world produces, their effects must be proportionably salutary. And as their combination is
such as to correct the pernicious qualities of each other, their conjoint effect must be the
most wholesome that can possibly be administered for the health of human nature. As every simple,
however specific in certain cases, possesses qualities that are pernicious in other respects,
it has been the first principle of physical enquiry not only to find the basis of a medicine,
but to form compounds or ingredients that corrected the injurious tendency of each other. With
this scientific principle Dr. Solander having composed his sanative tea, has rendered it the
most general specific in its effects of any medicinal aliment.

This tea affording a compound oil, which is formed of the most aromatic vegetables the earth
affords, it is no wonder its effects, like honey, should approach so near a general specific.
The invaluable oils, uniting with the sulphurs of the sanative tea, recruit, soften, and lubricate
the juices, diminish the too great elasticity, dryness, and crispness of the nervous fibres,
and afford the exhausted liquids fresh supplies. Their effects are consequently exceedingly
restorative in all cases, where the force of the fibres and the vessels are too strong, the
circulation too rapid, and the blood too attenuated or diminished; as it prevents the too quick
action of the solids, and the too rapid motion of the blood, the body is nourished, and the
mind prepared for the refreshment of sleep when the approach of night invites to repose. In
spitting of blood its effects are particularly beneficial. The oil being easily detached from
the earth of the plant is, in such cases, exceedingly nutritive, and, by its checking the stimulation,
and sheathing the acrimony of the humours, the blood is replenished with the most healing and
balsamic virtues.

In pleurisies, ulcers, and abscesses of the lungs, hectic fevers, dry coughs, night sweats,
and difficulty of breathing, the balsamic oil and sulphur of this tea is most salutary.

The dropsical, phlegmatic, corpulent, cathetic, and all such as are in their stamina relaxed,
will find the greatest relief in its constant use; and to those who are emaciated, either from
hereditary or acquired disease, it is particularly beneficial.

In seasons when experience informs us that the blood requires cleansing and attenuating, this
tea will be of considerable service to the healthy as well as the diseased. By these means
the constitution will be preserved and restored from all those chronic and acute afflictions,
which are the consequences of acrimonious humours and foulness of blood.

As this tea produces the effects of cleansing the stomach, promoting digestion, diluting the
chyle, and invigorating the whole viscera, it should be constantly drank by those who live freely.

Unlike most medicinal applications, this tea requires no previous preparation of the body.
Such are its nature and progression of effects, that it first renders the body in a state suitable
to receive succeeding benefits; nor is it dangerous, like mineral waters, to which persons
afflicted with nervous complaints generally resort. Persons suffering acute or inflammatory
diseases, or who have their vessels too greatly constringed, need not be under the apprehensions
of suffering scirrhuses, or even death, which is the confluence of drinking, in such cases,
mineral waters; but, on the contrary, they may expect to receive, from the use of the sanative
tea, the most beneficial effects, not only in the above, but also in the gout and rheumatism,
from its moderate use producing a gentle perspiration.

To account for the variety of salutary effects that this valuable discovery produces, we shall
now proceed to consider its operation as a medicine and an aliment, which will afford the most
convincing and conclusive arguments that can be possibly adduced in favour of its sanative
qualities.

To consider its medicinal properties or effects, it is necessary to state in what manner it
acts first upon the solids, next upon the fluids, and lastly, how it operates upon both together;
for on these three principles the power and quality of a medicine solely depend. In acting
upon the solids, it either alters their texture and cohesion, or, by diluting the canals, change
the figure of the sides. But a medicine acting upon fluids only either alters their properties,
or brings them out of the body. All medicines, however, act as well upon the solids as the
fluids; for the latter can scarcely be altered without in some degree affecting the former.

As all medicines derive the greatest qualities from their filling, evacuating, or altering
the smallest parts, the sanative tea possesses the most restorative properties from its action
upon the smallest nervous vessels, and not in the arteries, veins, glands, lymphatic and adipose
vessels. Thus, as all augmentation and accretion of the greater depend on the extension of
the smallest lateral vessels, which are nervous tubuli, the nutrition and restitution of what
is wasted must be considerably derived from the constant use of this beverage morning and evening.
From this the medicinal effects of the tea upon the solids are found to be consistent with
the first of physical principles; for the nutrition of the solids, which is made by the application
of any part to the place of a wasted part, is always effected in the smallest canals, of which
the greater consist.

And as every salutary change of the fluids is made in the smallest vessels, the sanative tea
possessing the power of conveying nutrition into the most minute channels of the body, the
liquids must derive from it the greatest renovation.

From this combined effect upon the solids and liquids, the strength of the greater vessels
is increased, and thus is the whole aggregate body invigorated; for every artery derives its
energy from its sides, which are composed of the minutest vessels. To enter into a complete
detail of its medicinal principles, would require a volume itself; we must therefore avoid
any further enquiry of its effects as a physical remedy, in order to leave a few lines for
its consideration as an aliment.

The qualities of an aliment chiefly depend on their nature affording that nourishment which
is proper to the time of taking and the state of the body. Indeed, without their possessing
these relative properties, either meats or drinks are injurious instead of beneficial. For
this reason physical necessity, more than tyrant custom, has caused a thinner aliment to be
taken in the morning and evening than what forms the meals of dinner and supper. This necessity
arises from the state of the body being in the morning just recovering its spirits from a comparative
state of relaxation and imbecility, and in the afternoon from the stomach being enfeebled by
recent digestion. That the body, immediately after sleep, is in a relaxed state, may be perceived
by the perturbation the spirits experience from any surprise or violent action instantly succeeding.
Fits and faintings have frequently been the consequence of persons of quick sensibilities being
wakened. In such a state of relative debility, gross and solid food must oppress the spirits,
and thus render the body incapable of deriving nourishment from such an untimely aliment. But
if what is taken is light, pure, and apt for producing chyle, the stomach being capable of
digesting it, must turn it to the most wholesome nutrition. To attain this end, foreign teas,
from their lightness, have been universally adopted; but, as we have found, from their nature,
how ill adapted they are to be given when the nerves are already too weak to bear their violent
astringency, such should be used as are possessed of the most nutrition, without a tendency
to irritate the relaxed fibrillæ.

When the stomach is enfeebled by recent digestion in the afternoon, to take then another meal
of solid aliment must evidently tend to depress the digestive powers, and thus prevent the
body from having that nourishment it might receive from a lighter aliment.

The sanative tea being found, from the preceding enquiries, to possess the most active, subtle,
penetrating, and balsamic compound oils, salts, and sulphurs, which pervade, without irritation,
the minutest canals, must afford that species of aliment which the body in a morning and afternoon
requires. While it attenuates, it restores the tone and substance of the juices, strengthens
the solids, invigorates every natural function, and thus affords the means of enjoying all
the comfort that a healthy body and a happy mind can bestow.

THE END. Also, by the Venders of Patent Medicines in every City and Town, in England, Ireland
and Scotland.

Sold in Packets at 2s.

DIRECTION FOR MAKING DR. SOLANDER's TEA.

Two or three tea-spoonfuls of this Tea being put into a tea-pot, or a covered bason, pour boiling
water upon it, and let it remain a short time in a state of infusion.--After using milk and
sugar agreeably to the taste, drink it moderately warm. A few tea-cups full are sufficient
for breakfast, tea in the afternoon, or any other time a person may think proper.

                     *      *      *      *      *

A CAUTION.

The high estimation in which Dr. Solander's Tea is held, by the first circles of fashion, as
a general beverage--the many cures it has effected--and the pleasantness of its flavor having
induced several unprincipled persons to prepare and vend a base and spurious preparation under
a similar title; the Proprietor, in justice to the known efficacy of this Tea, and to secure
his property from further depredations, has thought proper to have an engraved copper-plate
affixed to the canisters and packets of the genuine and original preparation of Dr. Solander's
Sanative English Tea. This plate being entered at Stationer's Hall as the Act directs, Aug.
20, 1791, will subject such persons as imitate the same to a consequent prosecution. The Public
are therefore cautioned from purchasing any article but what is distinguished by the said plate,
and to observe thereon the words specified as above, of its being entered according to Act
of Parliament.

DR. SOLANDER's TEA.

This CELEBRATED TEA is peculiarly efficacious in most inward wasting, loss of Appetite, Hysterical
Disorders and Indigestion, depression of Spirits, trembling or shaking of the Hands or Limbs,
obstinate Coughs, Shortness of Breath, and Consumptive Habits; it purifies the Blood, eases
the most violent pains of the Head and Stomach, and is a wonderful Assuager of the excruciating
pains of the Gout and Rheumatism, by promoting gentle Perspiration. By the NOBILITY and GENTRY
this Tea is much admired as a fashionable BREAKFAST; being pleasant to the taste and smell,
gently astringing the fibres of the stomach, and giving them that proper tensity, which is
requisite to a good digestion; and nothing can be better adapted to help and nourish the Constitution
after late hours, or making too free with wine.

In the Measles and Small Pox, nothing need be given but a plenty of this Tea; drank warm at
Night it promotes refreshing rest, and, as such, is a regular afternoon's beverage with many
aged and infirm Persons. Being of peculiar service to children, and such who are weakly, many
Parents, and others, having the care and education of Females, exclude the use of any other
than this salubrious Tea.

By the Studious and Sedentary, this CELEBRATED TEA is justly considered as a MENTAL PANACEA,
from its sovereign efficacy in removing complaints of the head, invigorating the mind, improving
the memory, and enlivening the imagination.

The Proofs of Efficacy of Dr. SOLANDER'S TEA, being so numerous, would far exceed the limitation
of a Pamphlet; the Public are therefore required to accept the following abridged List of Cures
as Specimens:

CASE I. To the Proprietor of Dr. SOLANDER'S TEA.

HAVING long languished under a severe depression of spirits, an almost continual cough, and
to all appearance, a confirmed consumption, being afflicted with violent pains in my head and
breast, together with a total lassitude of body and limbs.--I was so weak and emaciated that
all my friends and acquaintance apprehended, I could not survive many Weeks. In that unhappy
condition, an eminent Physician recommended me to your SANATIVE ENGLISH TEA, in the use of
which I persevered for several weeks, with the happiest effect, and am now perfectly cured
by that salutary and invaluable Medicine. Happy in the opportunity of contributing my endeavours
to alleviate the distresses of humanity, I hereby authorise you to publish my case, with my
earnest recommendation of your Sanative Tea, to all persons afflicted with nervous and other
consumptive disorders, and am, Sir, your humble servant,

NICHOLAS SANDYS.

N.B. My near relation SAMUEL SANDYS, Esq. No. 61, Berner-street, and many of my friends, will
testify to the truth of the above.

CASE II.

Mrs. JONES, of Hammersmith, was for several years afflicted with a bilious and nervous complaint,
being recommended by a friend, who (in an obstinate cough attended with spitting of blood)
had experienced the peculiar efficacy of Dr. Solander's Tea, was at last persuaded to make
trial of it, when in a few months she was perfectly restored to health and spirits, by the
use of this celebrated Tea.

CASE III.

Mr. BRYANT, No. 7, King-street, Bethnal-green, for twenty years was violently afflicted with
a nervous disorder, but by the constant drinking the Sanative English Tea is now enjoying a
good state of health.

CASE IV.

CAPT. R. SMITH, of Liverpool, after a severe nervous fever, was very much afflicted with violent
Pains in his breast, attended with a continual cough and excruciating head-ache, which entirely
deprived him of rest, and reduced him to a mere skeleton; being persuaded to drink Dr. Solander's
tea, was recovered to health and strength by that salubrious panacea.

CASE V. To the Proprietor of Dr. SOLANDER'S TEA.

FOR some Years past I had been violently afflicted with a slow nervous fever attended by a
continual head-ache, a total loss of appetite, and a very bad digestion, by which I was reduced
to a deplorable state of languor and dejection of spirits. After being attended by many Doctors,
and taking a variety of Medicines, my husband, Mr. JOHN TOD, hearing from several persons with
whom he was acquainted, of the wonderful effects your excellent Tea had done in nervous disorders,
in various Families with whom, in his extensive acquaintance, he was well known, urged me much
to drink the Tea; which I began in the Morning for breakfast, and in a few days I found myself
much better, and was much pleased with so grateful a remedy. I continued it for some time;
and I do assure you I am now entirely recovered, and enjoy a perfect state of health, without
any medical assistance whatever. I am therefore prompted to send you this, in gratitude for
the benefit I have received, requesting you will make what use of it you think proper, as it
may be of the same benefit to others.

I am, Sir, your very humble servant,

FRANCES TOD. Rum and Brandy Warehouse, No. 8, Little Carter-lane, Doctor's Commons, Feb. 20, 1790

CASE VI. To the Proprietor of the Sanative Tea.

WHEN I arrived in England some time ago, I was distressed with a severe depression of the spirits,
a very violent cough, and as all my friends thought in a declining consumptive habit of body;
my brother hearing the efficacy of your Sanative Tea much praised, bought me a cannister, and
begged I would use it according to the directions given with it, which I did, and had a tea-pot
of it standing at my bed-side every night, (for as I was very restless and very feverish) drinking
it at intervals, and likewise in the morning; before it was all out I was entirely recovered,
and have at this time good spirits, good appetite, and good health. I therefore recommend it
much. I am, Sir, &c.

MARY MULLARKY. No. 11, York-street, London-road, Sept. 29, 1792

CASE VII. To the Proprietor of Dr. SOLANDER'S Sanative Tea.

A near relation of mine being afflicted with a violent nervous disorder, owing to a fright
which happened to her in her lying-in, so much so, as nearly to deprive her of reason; her
intellects were for some time, very much impaired, and she was reduced to a state of despondency;
she was attended by many eminent physicians, and took many of her apothecary's draughts, &c.
but without success, until she was persuaded to try your Sanative Tea, by several of her acquaintances,
who had proved its good qualities, which she made use of six weeks, and in which time she found
herself perfectly recovered from such alarming disorder. In justice to so valuable and elegant
a medicine, I cannot omit giving you this information, that it may be published for the benefit
of the community at large, being fully persuaded of its excellent qualities. I am, Sir, &c.

RICHARD ANDREWS. No. 20, Cross-street, Surry, Oct. 16, 1792.

CASE VIII. To the Proprietor of the SANATIVE TEA.

FOR a long time I was frequently afflicted with a nervous disorder in my head and stomach,
was exceedingly ill and low spirited, and often confined to my bed; I had a variety of things
prescribed for me by gentlemen of the faculty, but without effect, my disorder still returning;
till your Sanative Tea was recommended to me: I resolved to try it, and it so much pleased
me in taste and satisfaction of drinking, that I made it my constant morning and evening Tea,
and continued it for some time, and quickly found my health better, my spirits good, and have
now entirely got rid, by its means, of all my illness, and am in good health; therefore I am
glad to send this information, in justice to the virtues of the Sanative Tea, recommending
it to every one who may be afflicted with any such dreadful complaints I laboured under. I
remain, Sir, your humble servant,

MARY SMYTH, Mistress of the School. Blackfriars School, near Ludgate-Hill, Nov. 16, 1792.

CASE IX. To the Proprietor of Dr. Solander's SANATIVE TEA.

ABOUT twelve months ago, my daughter was afflicted with violent pains in her stomach, occasioned
as was supposed, by drinking strong green tea for breakfast, without eating therewith--I had
the assistance of several gentlemen of the faculty, but to no purpose; as her complaint grew
worse almost daily; and it was the general opinion that she was in a decline. Anxious for the
safety of my child, I tried many advertised medicines without success; till seeing in the County
Chronicle the many cures performed by your Sanative Tea, I wrote to a Friend in London to procure
me some of it; he readily acquiesced, and sent me a few packets of the Tea as a present: In
a short time her complaint was much abated, and continuing the use of it a few weeks, she was
restored to perfect health:--in justice to the merits of your Tea, you have my consent to make
whatever use you please of this token of acknowledgement. I remain, Sir, your obliged humble
servant,

FRED. BLAKELEY. Barsford, near Needham, Suffolk, March 10, 1793.

CASE X. To the Proprietor of Dr. Solander's SANATIVE TEA.

HAVING been afflicted with obstructions, attended with a continual cough and violent pains
in my head and breast--I applied to many physicians and apothecaries, without finding relief,
till I drank your Sanative Tea, which has entirely cured me. I think it my duty to send you
this acknowledgement, in justice to you and the Public at large. I am, Sir, &c.

ANN ROYAL. No. 63, St. John street, near the Green-Walk, Christ-church, Surry, March 18, 1793.

CASE XI. To the Proprietor of the SANATIVE TEA.

BEING much afflicted with a slow fever, very nervous, and much subject to fits, a violent oppression
at my stomach, and total loss of appetite; I was continually taking physic of various descriptions,
but found no relief. Having heard your Sanative Tea highly praised, I resolved to try it, and
found myself in a short time much better. I have continued drinking it ever since, and at present
enjoy so perfect a state of health, that I cannot sufficiently express my gratitude for the
benefit I have experienced. I therefore send you this, recommending it much to every person
so afflicted with illness as I was, giving you full liberty to make this known as you may think
proper. I am, &c.

CATHARINE CLOVER. Ormond-Place, Queen-square, Bloomsbury, March 24, 1793.

CASE XII. To the Proprietor of the ENGLISH SANATIVE TEA.

HAVING had recourse to several medicines and prescriptions, for internal weakness and indigestion,
without the desired effect, I was advised to make trial of your Sanative Tea, as a medicine.
I accordingly furnished myself with two parcels, and found it very agreeable and pleasant;
and in a short time I had the satisfaction of feeling the good effects of this pleasing and
salutary medicine; and to confirm the services received from it, I am determined, for the future,
to drink it instead of foreign teas, because I think it more grateful than any thing yet presented
to the public as a stomatic; therefore in justice to your valuable discovery for the public
good, you are welcome to communicate this information to the world at large; with the sincerest
wishes for the general use of your excellent Tea. I am, Sir, &c.

RICHARD EDWARDS. No. 37, Baldwin's-gardens, Holborn, June 13, 1793

CASE XIII. To the Proprietor of the SANATIVE TEA.

BEING very much afflicted with a violent head-ache for a great many years, I some time ago
heard a great praise of the Sanative Tea; I tried it and thought it did me good, and by continuing
the use of it, it has entirely taken away my old head-ache, and I find myself much better,
and am now quite well. Indeed it has done me more good than I could expect, as the head-ache
is particularly our family complaint. I likewise recommended it to my brother, James Robertson,
of Bradfield, Essex, and it has had the same good effects on him. Also my sister, Mrs. Shibley,
of Battle-bridge, has experienced its salutary effects; therefore in justice to so excellent
a thing, I send you this, hoping others troubled with a constitutional head-ache, will make
use of it. I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

RATCLIFF ROBERTSON. No. 10, Great Shire-lane, Temple-bar, June 26, 1793

CASE XIV. To the Proprietor of the SANATIVE TEA.

ABOUT two years ago, I was attacked with a nervous disorder in my head, which violently afflicted
my whole frame. I had no rest, and oftentimes, for want of sleep, at intervals, lost my senses--being
much troubled with frights and startings, the disorder increased, till most of my friends expected
I should soon die. I took many things without benefit, till an acquaintance recommended me
to use the Sanative Tea. I began to drink it in the night, being always very thirsty; I thought
in two or three nights that I was easier; I therefore continued it, and not only drank it in
the night, but used it constantly, and left off drinking India tea. I gradually got better,
and am now quite recovered, having got rid of head-ache, startings, &c. I therefore wish to
recommend it for its excellence to all my sex; and beg you will accept of this, hoping it may
be useful.

I am, Sir, your humble servant,

MARY SHAW. No. 24, Cross-street, St. George's-Fields, July 10, 1793.

CASE XV. To the Proprietor of Dr. Solander's Tea.

INDUCED by a friend of mine to make use of your Tea, as an excellent medicine for the loss
of appetite, bad digestion, and great relaxation of the whole frame, with which I had been
afflicted a long time, I have found more relief from it, than from any other medicine I have
yet had recourse to, and am convinced it has qualities superior to any thing of the kind; and
considering it as worthy of public attention, I give you my approbation of the services it
has done me. I am, your humble servant,

JOHN MIDDLETON, Pencil-maker. No. 11, Turnagain-lane, Snow-hill, July 19, 1793.

CASE XVI. To the Proprietor of Dr. SOLANDER's TEA.

HEARING of the virtues of your Tea, in nervous complaints and indigestions, and being among
my friends much persuaded to try it, I soon found, by drinking it for breakfast, the good effects
arising from it; your Sanative Tea having operated entirely to my wish, from its pleasing as
well as its medicinal qualities. I continued to use it, at least once a day, and as a means
of disclosing its virtues shall continue to recommend it in the circle of my acquaintance.
Your humble servant,

PETER CAPPER. No. 14, Lambeth-walk, Aug. 8, 1793.

CASE XVII. To the Proprietor of the English Sanative TEA.

A Servant of mine having been in a continual state of pain, from what the doctors deemed a
rheumatic complaint, for the space of eight months, and appearing to be of a consumptive habit
of body, attended with a total depression of spirits, a perpetual cough, and extreme weakness
of limbs; which threatened her dissolution. Hearing frequently of the surprising efficacy of
your Sanative Tea, I bought some for her, and the happy effects it has produced, urges me strongly
to speak in its great praise; therefore, I send you this, hoping her case may be of service
to make the virtues of your Sanative Tea, universally known.

I am, SIR, &c.

JOSEPH SWALLOW. No. 3, Clarence-place, St. George's, Southwark, Aug. 20, 1793.

CASE XVIII. To the Proprietor of the SANATIVE TEA.

