All the greater poems of Wordsworth and Walt Whitman represent an attempt to translate direct
contemplative experience of this kind into words and rhythms which might convey its secret
to other men: all Blake's philosophy is but a desperate effort to persuade us to exchange the
false world of "Nature" on which we usually look--and which is not really Nature at all--for
this, the true world, to which he gave the confusing name of "Imagination." For these, the
contemplation of the World of Becoming assumes the intense form which we call genius: even
to read their poems is to feel the beating of a heart, the upleap of a joy, greater than anything
that we have known. Yet your own little efforts towards the attainment of this level of consciousness
will at least give to you, together with a more vivid universe, a wholly new comprehension
of their works; and that of other poets and artists who have drunk from the chalice of the
Spirit of Life. These works are now observed by you to be the only artistic creations to which
the name of Realism is appropriate; and it is by the standard of reality that you shall now
criticise them, recognising in utterances which you once dismissed as rhetoric the desperate
efforts of the clear-sighted towards the exact description of things veritably seen in that
simplified state of consciousness which Blake called "imagination uncorrupt." It was from those
purified and heightened levels of perception to which the first form of contemplation inducts
the soul, that Julian of Norwich, gazing upon "a little thing, the quantity of an hazel nut,"
found in it the epitome of all that was made; for therein she perceived the royal character
of life. So small and helpless in its mightiest forms, so august even in its meanest, that
life in its wholeness was then realised by her as the direct outbirth of, and the meek dependant
upon, the Energy of Divine Love. She felt at once the fugitive character of its apparent existence,
the perdurable Reality within which it was held. "I marvelled," she said, "how it might last,
for methought it might suddenly have fallen to naught for littleness. To this same apprehension
of Reality, this linking up of each finite expression with its Origin, this search for the
inner significance of every fragment of life, one of the greatest and most balanced contemplatives
of the nineteenth century, Florence Nightingale, reached out when she exclaimed in an hour
of self-examination, "I must strive to see only God in my friends, and God in my cats."

Yet it is not the self-tormenting strife of introspective and self-conscious aspiration, but
rather an unrelaxed, diligent intention, a steady acquiescence, a simple and loyal surrender
to the great currents of life, a holding on to results achieved in your best moments, that
shall do it for you: a surrender not limp but deliberate, a trustful self-donation, a "living
faith." "A pleasing stirring of love," says The Cloud of Unknowing, not a desperate anxious
struggle for more light. True contemplation can only thrive when defended from two opposite
exaggerations: quietism on the one hand, and spiritual fuss upon the other. Neither from passivity
nor from anxiety has it anything to gain. Though the way may be long, the material of your
mind intractable, to the eager lover of Reality ultimate success is assured. The strong tide
of Transcendent Life will inevitably invade, clarify, uplift the consciousness which is open
to receive it; a movement from without--subtle yet actual--answering each willed movement from
within. "Your opening and His entering," says Eckhart, "are but one moment." When, therefore,
you put aside your preconceived ideas, your self-centred scale of values, and let intuition
have its way with you, you open up by this act new levels of the world. Such an opening-up
is the most practical of all activities; for then and then only will your diurnal existence,
and the natural scene in which that existence is set, begin to give up to you its richness
and meaning. Its paradoxes and inequalities will be disclosed as true constituents of its beauty,
an inconceivable splendour will be shaken out from its dingiest folds. Then, and only then,
escaping the single vision of the selfish, you will begin to guess all that your senses were
meant to be.

CHAPTER VIII

THE SECOND FORM OF CONTEMPLATION

"And here," says Ruysbroeck of the self which has reached this point, "there begins a hunger
and a thirst which shall never more be stilled."

In the First Form of Contemplation that self has been striving to know better its own natural
plane of existence. It has stretched out the feelers of its intuitive love into the general
stream of duration of which it is a part. Breaking down the fences of personality, merging
itself in a larger consciousness, it has learned to know the World of Becoming from within--as
a citizen, a member of the great society of life, not merely as a spectator. But the more deeply
and completely you become immersed in and aware of this life, the greater the extension of
your consciousness; the more insistently will rumours and intimations of a higher plane of
experience, a closer unity and more complete synthesis, begin to besiege you. You feel that
hitherto you nave received the messages of life in a series of disconnected words and notes,
from which your mind constructed as best it could certain coherent sentences and tunes--laws,
classifications, relations, and the rest. But now you reach out towards the ultimate sentence
and melody, which exist independently of your own constructive efforts; and realise that the
words and notes which so often puzzled you by displaying an intensity that exceeded the demands
of your little world, only have beauty and meaning just because and in so far as you discern
them to be the partial expressions of a greater whole which is still beyond your reach.

You have long been like a child tearing up the petals of flowers in order to make a mosaic
on the garden path; and the results of this murderous diligence you mistook for a knowledge
of the world. When the bits fitted with unusual exactitude, you called it science. Now at last
you have perceived the greater truth and loveliness of the living plant from which you broke
them: have, in fact, entered into direct communion with it, "united" with its reality. But
this very recognition of the living growing plant does and must entail for you a consciousness
of deeper realities, which, as yet, you have not touched: of the intangible things and forces
which feed and support it; of the whole universe that touches you through its life. A mere
cataloguing of all the plants-- though this were far better than your old game of indexing
your own poor photographs of them--will never give you access to the Unity, the Fact, whatever
it may be, which manifests itself through them. To suppose that it can do so is the cardinal
error of the "nature mystic": an error parallel with that of the psychologist who looks for
the soul in "psychic states."

The deeper your realisation of the plant in its wonder, the more perfect your union with the
world of growth and change, the quicker, the more subtle your response to its countless suggestions;
so much the more acute will become your craving for Something More. You will now find and feel
the Infinite and Eternal, making as it were veiled and sacramental contacts with you under
these accidents--through these its ceaseless creative activities--and you will want to press
through and beyond them, to a fuller realisation of, a more perfect and unmediated union with,
the Substance of all That Is. With the great widening and deepening of your life that has ensued
from the abolition of a narrow selfhood, your entrance into the larger consciousness of living
things, there has necessarily come to you an instinctive knowledge of a final and absolute
group-relation, transcending and including all lesser unions in its sweep. To this, the second
stage of contemplation, in which human consciousness enters into its peculiar heritage, something
within you now seems to urge you on.

If you obey this inward push, pressing forward with the "sharp dart of your longing love,"
forcing the point of your wilful attention further and further into the web of things, such
an ever-deepening realisation, such an extension of your conscious life, will indeed become
possible to you. Nothing but your own apathy, your feeble and limited desire, limits this realisation.
Here there is a strict relation between demand and supply--your achievement shall be in proportion
to the greatness of your desire. The fact, and the in-pressing energy, of the Reality without
does not vary. Only the extent to which you are able to receive it depends upon your courage
and generosity, the measure in which you give yourself to its embrace. Those minds which set
a limit to their self-donation must feel as they attain it, not a sense of satisfaction but
a sense of constriction. It is useless to offer your spirit a garden--even a garden inhabited
by saints and angels--and pretend that it has been made free of the universe. You will not
have peace until you do away with all banks and hedges, and exchange the garden for the wilderness
that is unwalled; that wild strange place of silence where "lovers lose themselves."

Yet you must begin this great adventure humbly; and take, as Julian of Norwich did, the first
stage of your new outward-going journey along the road that lies nearest at hand. When Julian
looked with the eye of contemplation upon that "little thing" which revealed to her the oneness
of the created universe, her deep and loving sight perceived in it successively three properties,
which she expressed as well as she might under the symbols of her own theology: "The first
is that God made it; the second is that God loveth it; the third is that God keepeth it." Here
are three phases in the ever-widening contemplative apprehension of Reality. Not three opinions,
but three facts, for which she struggles to find words. The first is that each separate living
thing, budding "like an hazel nut" upon the tree of life, and there destined to mature, age,
and die, is the outbirth of another power, of a creative push: that the World of Becoming in
all its richness and variety is not ultimate, but formed by Something other than, and utterly
transcendent to, itself. This, of course, the religious mind invariably takes for granted:
but we are concerned with immediate experience rather than faith. To feel and know those two
aspects of Reality which we call "created" and "uncreated," nature and spirit--to be as sharply
aware of them, as sure of them, as we are of land and sea--is to be made free of the supersensual
world. It is to stand for an instant at the Poet's side, and see that Poem of which you have
deciphered separate phrases in the earlier form of contemplation. Then you were learning to
read: and found in the words, the lines, the stanzas, an astonishing meaning and loveliness.
But how much greater the significance of every detail would appear to you, how much more truly
you would possess its life, were you acquainted with the Poem: not as a mere succession of
such lines and stanzas, but as a non-successional whole.

From this Julian passes to that deeper knowledge of the heart which comes from a humble and
disinterested acceptance of life; that this Creation, this whole changeful natural order, with
all its apparent collisions, cruelties, and waste, yet springs from an ardour, an immeasurable
love, a perpetual donation, which generates it, upholds it, drives it; for "all-thing hath
the being by the love of God." Blake's anguished question here receives its answer: the Mind
that conceived the lamb conceived the tiger too. Everything, says Julian in effect, whether
gracious, terrible, or malignant, is enwrapped in love: and is part of a world produced, not
by mechanical necessity, but by passionate desire.

Therefore nothing can really be mean, nothing despicable; nothing, however perverted, irredeemable.
The blasphemous other-worldliness of the false mystic who conceives of matter as an evil thing
and flies from its "deceits," is corrected by this loving sight. Hence, the more beautiful
and noble a thing appears to us, the more we love it--so much the more truly do we see it:
for then we perceive within it the Divine ardour surging up towards expression, and share that
simplicity and purity of vision in which most saints and some poets see all things "as they
are in God."

Lastly, this love-driven world of duration--this work within which the Divine Artist passionately
and patiently expresses His infinite dream under finite forms--is held in another, mightier
embrace. It is "kept," says Julian. Paradoxically, the perpetual changeful energies of love
and creation which inspire it are gathered up and made complete within the unchanging fact
of Being: the Eternal and Absolute, within which the world of things is set as the tree is
set in the supporting earth, the enfolding air. There, finally, is the rock and refuge of the
seeking consciousness wearied by the ceaseless process of the flux. There that flux exists
in its wholeness, "all at once"; in a manner which we can never comprehend, but which in hours
of withdrawal we may sometimes taste and feel. It is in man's moments of contact with this,
when he penetrates beyond all images, however lovely, however significant, to that ineffable
awareness which the mystics call "Naked Contemplation"--since it is stripped of all the clothing
with which reason and imagination drape and disguise both our devils and our gods--that the
hunger and thirst of the heart is satisfied, and we receive indeed an assurance of ultimate
Reality. This assurance is not the cool conclusion of a successful argument. It is rather the
seizing at last of Something which we have ever felt near us and enticing us: the unspeakably
simple because completely inclusive solution of all the puzzles of life.

As, then, you gave yourself to the broken-up yet actual reality of the natural world, in order
that it might give itself to you, and your possession of its secret was achieved, first by
surrender of selfhood, next by a diligent thrusting out of your attention, last by a union
of love; so now by a repetition upon fresh levels of that same process, you are to mount up
to higher unions still. Held tight as it seems to you in the finite, committed to the perpetual
rhythmic changes, the unceasing flux of "natural" life--compelled to pass on from state to
state, to grow, to age, to die--there is yet, as you discovered in the first exercise of recollection,
something in you which endures through and therefore transcends this world of change. This
inhabitant, this mobile spirit, can spread and merge in the general consciousness, and gather
itself again to one intense point of personality. It has too an innate knowledge of--an instinct
for--another, greater rhythm, another order of Reality, as yet outside its conscious field;
or as we say, a capacity for the Infinite. This capacity, this unfulfilled craving, which the
cunning mind of the practical man suppresses and disguises as best it can, is the source of
all your unrest. More, it is the true origin of all your best loves and enthusiasms, the inspiring
cause of your heroisms and achievements; which are but oblique and tentative efforts to still
that strange hunger for some final object of devotion, some completing and elucidating vision,
some total self-donation, some great and perfect Act within which your little activity can
be merged.

St. Thomas Aquinas says, that a man is only withheld from this desired vision of the Divine
Essence, this discovery of the Pure Act (which indeed is everywhere pressing in on him and
supporting him), by the apparent necessity which he is under of turning to bodily images, of
breaking up his continuous and living intuition into Conceptual scraps; in other words, because
he cannot live the life of sensation without thought. But it is not the man, it is merely his
mental machinery which is under this "necessity." This it is which translates, analyses, incorporates
in finite images the boundless perceptions of the spirit: passing through its prism the White
Light of Reality, and shattering it to a succession of coloured rays. Therefore the man who
would know the Divine Secret must unshackle himself more thoroughly than ever before from the
tyranny of the image-making power. As it is not by the methods of the laboratory that we learn
to know life, so it is not by the methods of the intellect that we learn to know God.

"For of all other creatures and their works," says the author of The Cloud of Unknowing, "yea,
and of the works of God's self, may a man through grace have full-head of knowing, and well
he can think of them: but of God Himself can no man think. And therefore I would leave all
that thing that I can think, and choose to my love that thing that I cannot think. For why;
He may well be loved, but not thought. By love may He be gotten and holden; but by thought never."

"Gotten and holden": homely words, that suggest rather the outstretching of the hand to take
something lying at your very gates, than the long outward journey or terrific ascent of the
contemplative soul. Reality indeed, the mystics say, is "near and far"; far from our thoughts,
but saturating and supporting our lives. Nothing would be nearer, nothing dearer, nothing sweeter,
were the doors of our perception truly cleansed. You have then but to focus attention upon
your own deep reality, "realise your own soul," in order to find it. "We dwell in Him and He
in us": you participate in the Eternal Order now. The vision of the Divine Essence--the participation
of its own small activity in the Supernal Act--is for the spark of your soul a perpetual process.
On the apex of your personality, spirit ever gazes upon Spirit, melts and merges in it: from
and by this encounter its life arises and is sustained. But you have been busy from your childhood
with other matters. All the urgent affairs of "life," as you absurdly called it, have monopolised
your field of consciousness. Thus all the important events of your real life, physical and
spiritual--the mysterious perpetual growth of you, the knitting up of fresh bits of the universe
into the unstable body which you confuse with yourself, the hum and whirr of the machine which
preserves your contacts with the material world, the more delicate movements which condition
your correspondences with, and growth within, the spiritual order--all these have gone on unperceived
by you. All the time you have been kept and nourished, like the "Little Thing," by an enfolding
and creative love; yet of this you are less conscious than you are of the air that you breathe.

Now, as in the first stage of contemplation you learned and established, as a patent and experienced
fact, your fraternal relation with all the other children of God, entering into the rhythm
of their existence, participating in their stress and their joy; will you not at least try
to make patent this your filial relation too? This actualisation of your true status, your
place in the Eternal World, is waiting for you. It represents the next phase in your gradual
achievement of Reality. The method by which you will attain to it is strictly analogous to
that by which you obtained a more vivid awareness of the natural world in which you grow and
move. Here too it shall be direct intuitive contact, sensation rather than thought, which shall
bring you certitude-- "tasting food, not talking about it," as St. Bonaventura says.

Yet there is a marked difference between these two stages. In the first, the deliberate inward
retreat and gathering together of your faculties which was effected by recollection, was the
prelude to a new coming forth, an outflow from the narrow limits of a merely personal life
to the better and truer apprehension of the created world. Now, in the second stage, the disciplined
and recollected attention seems to take an opposite course. It is directed towards a plane
of existence with which your bodily senses have no attachments: which is not merely misrepresented
by your ordinary concepts, but cannot be represented by them at all. It must therefore sink
inwards towards its own centre, "away from all that can be thought or felt," as the mystics
say, "away from every image, every notion, every thing," towards that strange condition of
obscurity which St. John of the Cross calls the "Night of Sense." Do this steadily, checking
each vagrant instinct, each insistent thought, however "spiritual" it may seem; pressing ever
more deeply inwards towards that ground, that simple and undifferentiated Being from which
your diverse faculties emerge. Presently you will find yourself, emptied and freed, in a place
stripped bare of all the machinery of thought; and achieve the condition of simplicity which
those same specialists call nakedness of spirit or "Wayless Love," and which they declare to
be above all human images and ideas--a state of consciousness in which "all the workings of
the reason fail." Then you will observe that you have entered into an intense and vivid silence:
a silence which exists in itself, through and in spite of the ceaseless noises of your normal
world. Within this world of silence you seem as it were to lose yourself, "to ebb and to flow,
to wander and be lost in the Imageless Ground," says Ruysbroeck, struggling to describe the
sensations of the self in this, its first initiation into the "wayless world, beyond image,"
where "all is, yet in no wise."

Yet in spite of the darkness that enfolds you, the Cloud of Unknowing into which you have plunged,
you are sure that it is well to be here. A peculiar certitude which you cannot analyse, a strange
satisfaction and peace, is distilled into you. You begin to understand what the Psalmist meant,
when he said, "Be still, and know." You are lost in a wilderness, a solitude, a dim strange
state of which you can say nothing, since it offers no material to your image-making mind.

But this wilderness, from one point of view so bare and desolate, from another is yet strangely
homely. In it, all your sorrowful questionings are answered without utterance; it is the All,
and you are within it and part of it, and know that it is good. It calls forth the utmost adoration
of which you are capable; and, mysteriously, gives love for love. You have ascended now, say
the mystics, into the Freedom of the Will of God; are become part of a higher, slower duration,
which carries you as it were upon its bosom and--though never perhaps before has your soul
been so truly active--seems to you a stillness, a rest.

The doctrine of Plotinus concerning a higher life of unity, a lower life of multiplicity, possible
to every human spirit, will now appear to you not a fantastic theory, but a plain statement
of fact, which you have verified in your own experience. You perceive that these are the two
complementary ways of apprehending and uniting with Reality--the one as a dynamic process,
the other as an eternal whole. Thus understood, they do not conflict. You know that the flow,
the broken-up world of change and multiplicity, is still going on; and that you, as a creature
of the time-world, are moving and growing with it. But, thanks to the development of the higher
side of your consciousness, you are now lifted to a new poise; a direct participation in that
simple, transcendent life "broken, yet not divided," which gives to this time-world all its
meaning and validity. And you know, without derogation from the realness of that life of flux
within which you first made good your attachments to the universe, that you are also a true
constituent of the greater whole; that since you are man, you are also spirit, and are living
Eternal Life now, in the midst of time.

The effect of this form of contemplation, in the degree in which the ordinary man may learn
to practise it, is like the sudden change of atmosphere, the shifting of values, which we experience
when we pass from the busy streets into a quiet church; where a lamp burns, and a silence reigns,
the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever. Thence is poured forth a stillness which strikes
through the tumult without. Eluding the flicker of the arc-lamps, thence through an upper window
we may glimpse a perpetual star.

The walls of the church, limiting the range of our attention, shutting out the torrent of life,
with its insistent demands and appeals, make possible our apprehension of this deep eternal
peace. The character of our consciousness, intermediate between Eternity and Time, and ever
ready to swing between them, makes such a device, such a concrete aid to concentration, essential
to us. But the peace, the presence, is everywhere--for us, not for it, is the altar and the
sanctuary required--and your deliberate, humble practice of contemplation will teach you at
last to find it; outside the sheltering walls of recollection as well as within. You will realise
then what Julian meant, when she declared the ultimate property of all that was made to be
that "God keepeth it": will feel the violent consciousness of an enfolding Presence, utterly
transcending the fluid changeful nature-life, and incomprehensible to the intelligence which
that nature-life has developed and trained. And as you knew the secret of that nature-life
best by surrendering yourself to it, by entering its currents, and refusing to analyse or arrange:
so here, by a deliberate giving of yourself to the silence, the rich "nothingness," the "Cloud,"
you will draw nearest to the Reality it conceals from the eye of sense. "Lovers put out the
candle and draw the curtains," says Patmore, "when they wish to see the God and the Goddess:
and in the higher communion, the night of thought is the light of perception."

