"Heart, ma'am! what business has my daughter with a heart?" [what, indeed?] "I hate hearts;
they were sent, I believe, purposely to make those who are plagued with 'em poo-o-o-r. Heart,
indeed! When did heart ever gain money? ey? what? It'll give, O yes, plenty--plenty, to charities,
and churches, and orphans, and beggars, and any thing else, by way of getting rid of gold;
but as to gaining--bah! heart indeed--pauperizing bit of muscle! save me from wearing under
my waistcoat what you're pleased to call a heart. No, mum, no; if the girl has got a heart
to break, I've done with her. Heart indeed! she either marries money and my blessing, or marries
beggary and my curse. But I should like to know who wants her to marry at all? Let her die
an old maid."

Probably this dialogue need go no farther: in the coming chapter we will try to be didactic.
Meantime, to apostrophize ten words upon that last heartless sentence:

"Let her die an old maid." An old maid! how many unrecorded sorrows, how much of cruel disappointment
and heart-cankering delay, how often-times unwritten tragedies are hidden in that thoughtless
little phrase! O, the mass of blighted hopes, of slighted affections, of cold neglect, and
foolish contumely, wrapped up in those three syllables! Kind heart, kind heart, never use them;
neither lightly as in scorn, nor sadly as in pity: spare that ungenerous reproach. What! canst
thou think that from a feminine breast the lover, the wife, the mother, can be utterly sponged
away without long years of bitterness? Can Nature's wounds be cicatrized, or her soft feelings
seared, without a thousand secret pangs? Hath it been no trial to see youthful bloom departing,
and middle age creep on, without some intimate one to share the solitude of life? Ay, and the
coming prospect too--hath it greater consolations than the retrospect? How faintly common friends
can fill that hollow of the heart! How feebly can their kindness, at the warmest, imitate the
sympathies and love of married life! And in the days of sickness, or the hour of death--to
be lonely, childless, husbandless, to be lightly cared for, little missed--who can wonder that
all those bruised and broken yearnings should ferment within the solitary mind, and some, times
sour up the milk of human kindness? Be more considerate, more just, more loving to that injured
heart of woman; it hath loved deeply in its day; but imperative duty or untoward circumstances
nipped those early blossoms, and often generosity towards others, or the constancy of youthful
blighted love, has made it thus alone. There was an age in this world's history, and may be
yet again (if Heart is ever to be monarch of this social sphere), when those who lived and
died as Jephthah's daughter, were reckoned worthily with saints and martyrs; Heed thou, thus,
of many such, for they have offered up their hundred warm yearnings, a hecatomb of human love,
to God, the betrothed of their affections; and they move up and down among this inconsiderate
world, doing good, Sisters of Charity, full of pure benevolence, and beneficent beyond the
widow's mite. Heed kinder then, and blush for very shame, O man and woman! looking on this
noble band of ill-requited virgins; remember all their trials, and imitate their deeds; for
among the legion of that unreguarded sisterhood whom you coldly call old maids, are often seen
the world's chief almoners of warm unselfish sympathy, generous in mind, if not in means, and
blooming with the immortal youth of charity and kindliness.

CHAPTER II.

HOW THE DAUGHTER HAS A HEART; AND, WHAT IS COMMONER, A LOVER.

Yes, Maria Dillaway, though Sir Thomas's own daughter, had a heart, a warm and good one: it
was her only beauty, but assuredly at once the best adornment and cosmetic in the world. The
mixture of two such conflicting characters as her father and mother might (with common Providence
to bless the pair) unitedly produce heart; although their plebeian countenances could hardly
be expected without a direct miracle to generate beauty. Maria inherited from her father at
once his impetuosity and his little button-nose: although the latter was neither purple nor
pimply, and the former was more generous and better directed: from her mother she derived what
looked to any one at first sight very like red hair, along with great natural sweetness of
disposition: albeit her locks had less of fire, and her sweetness more of it: sympathy was
added to gentleness, zeal to patience, and universal tenderness to a general peace with all
the world; for that extreme quietude, almost apathy, alluded to before, having been superseded
by paternal impetuosity, the result of all was Heart. She doated on her mother; and (how she
contrived this, it is not quite so easy to comprehend) she found a great deal loveable even
in her father. But in fact she loved every body. Charity was the natural atmosphere of her
kind and feeling soul--always excusing, assisting, comforting, blessing; charity lent music
to her tongue, and added beauty to her eyes--charity gave grace to an otherwise ordinary figure,
and lit her freckled cheek with the spirit of loveliness. Let us be just--nay, more: let us
be partial, to the good looks of poor dear Maria. Notwithstanding the snub nose (it is not
snub; who says it is snub?--it is mignon, personified good nature)--notwithstanding the carroty
hair (I declare, it was nothing but a fine pale auburn after all)--notwithstanding the peppered
face (oh, how sweetly rayed with smiles!) and the common figure (gentle, unobtrusive, full
of delicate attentions)--yes, notwithstanding all these unheroinals, no one who had a heart
himself could look upon Maria without pleasure and approval. She was the very incarnation of
cheerfulness, kindness, and love: you forgot the greenish colour of those eyes which looked
so tenderly at you, and so often-times were dimmed with tears of unaffected pity; her smile,
at any rate, was most enchanting, the very sunshine of an amiable mind; her lips dropped blessings;
her brow was an open plain of frankness and candour; sincerity, warmth, disinterested sweet
affections threw such a lustre of loveliness over her form, as well might fascinate the mind
alive to spiritual beauty: and altogether, in spite of natural defects and disadvantages--nez
retroussé, Cleopatra locks, and all--no one but those constituted like her materialized father
and his kind, ever looked upon Maria without unconsciously admiring her, he scarcely knew for
what. Though there appeared little to praise, there certainly was every thing to please; and
faulty as in all pictorial probability was each lineament of face and line of form, taken separately
and by detail, the veil of universal charity softened and united them into one harmonious whole,
making of Maria Dillaway a most pleasant, comfortable, wife-like little personage.

At least, so thought Henry Clements. Neither was it any sudden fortnight's fancy, but the calm
consideration of two full years. Maria's was a character which grew upon your admiration gradually--a
character to like at first just a little; then to be led onwards imperceptibly from liking
to loving; and thence from fervid summer probably to fever heat. She dawned upon young Henry
like the blush of earliest morn, still shining brighter and fairer till glorious day was come.

He had casually made her acquaintance in the common social circle, and even on first introduction
had been much pleased, not to say captivated, with her cordial address, frank unsophisticated
manners, and winsome looks; he contrasted her to much advantage with the affected coquette,
the cold formal prude, the flippant woman of fashion, the empty heads and hollow hearts wherewithal
society is peopled. He had long been wearied out with shallow courtesies, frigid compliments,
and other conventional hypocrisies, up and down the world; and wanted something better to love
than mere surface beauty, mere elegant accomplishment--in a word, he yearned for Heart, and
found the object of his longings in affectionate Maria.

This first casual acquaintance he had of course taken every opportunity to improve as best
he might, and happily found himself more and more charmed on every fresh occasion. How heartily
glad she was to see him! how unaffectedly sincere in her amiable joy! how like a kind sister,
a sympathizing friend, a very true-love--a dear, cheerful, warm-hearted girl, who would make
the very model for a wife!

It is little wonder that, with all external drawbacks, now well-nigh forgotten, the handsome
Henry Clements found her so attractive; nor that, following diligently his points of advantage,
he progressed from acquaintanceship to intimacy, and intimacy to avowed admiration; and thence
(between ourselves) to the resolute measure of engagement.

I say between ourselves, because nobody else in the world knew it but the billing pair of lovers;
and even they have got the start of us only by a few hours. As for Henry Clements, he was a
free man in all senses, with nobody to bias his will or control his affections--an orphan,
unclogged by so much as an uncle or aunt to take him to task on the score of his attachment,
or to plague him with impertinent advice. His father, Captain Clements of the seventieth, had
fallen "gloriously" on the bloody field of Waterloo, and the pensioned widow had survived her
gallant hero barely nine winters; leaving little Henry thrown upon the wide world at ten years
of age, under the nominal guardianship of some very distant Ulster cousin of her own, a Mackintosh,
Mackenzie, or Macfarlane--it is not yet material which; and as for the lad's little property,
his poor patrimony of two hundred a-year had hitherto amply sufficed for Harrow and for Cambridge
(where he had distinguished himself highly), for his chambers in the Temple, and his quiet
bachelor-mode of life as a man of six-and-twenty.

Accordingly, our lover took counsel of nobody but Maria's beaming eyes, when he almost unconsciously
determined to lay siege to her: he really could not make up his mind to the preliminary formal
process of storming Sir Thomas in his counting-house, at the least until he had made sure that
Maria's kind looks were any thing more particular than universal charity; and as to Lady Dillaway,
it was impossible to broach so delicate a business to her till the daughter had looked favourably
as aforesaid, set aside her ladyship's formidable state of quiescence, and apparent (though
only apparent) lack of sympathy. So the lover still went on sunning his soul from time to time
in Maria's kindly smiles, until one day, that is, yesterday, they mutually found out by some
happy accident how very dear they were to each other; and mutually vowed ever to continue so.
It was quite a surprise this, even to both of them--an extemporary unrehearsed outburst of
the heart; and Maria discovered herself pledged before she had made direct application to mamma
about the business. However, once done, she hastened to confide the secret to her mother's
ear, earnestly requesting her to break it to papa. With how little of success, we have learnt
already.

CHAPTER III.

PATERNAL AMIABILITIES.

Maria, as we know, loved her father, for she loved every thing that breathes; but she would
not have been human had she not also feared him. In fact, he was to her a very formidable personage,
and one would have thought any thing but an amiable one. Over Maria's gentle kindness he could
domineer as loftily as he would cringe in cowardly humiliation to the boisterous effrontery
of that unscrupulous and wily stock-jobber, "my son Jack." With the tyranny proper to a little
mind, he would trample on the neck of a poor meek daughter's filial duty, desiring to honour
its parent by submission; and then, with consistent meanness, would lick the dust like a slave
before an undutiful only son, who had amply redeemed all possible criminalities by successful
(I did not say honest) gambling in the funds, and otherwise.

Yes! John Dillaway was rich; and, climax to his praise, rich by his own keen skill, independent
of his father, though he condescended still to bleed him. In this "money century," as Kohl,
the graphic traveller, has called it, riches "cover the multitude of sins;" leaving poor Maria's
charity to cover its own naked virtues, if it can. So John was the father's darling, notwithstanding
the very heartless and unbecoming conduct he had exhibited daily for these thirty years, and
the marked scorn wherewithal he treated that pudgy city knight, his dear progenitor; but then,
let us repeat it as Sir Thomas did--Jack was rich--rich, and such a comfort to his father;
whereas Maria, poor fool, with all her cheap unmarketable love and duty, never had earned a
penny--never could, but was born to be a drain upon him. Therefore did he scorn her, and put
aside her kindnesses, because she could not "make money."

For what end on earth should a man make money! It is reasonable to reply, for the happiness'
sake of others and himself; but, in the frequent case of a rich and cold Sir Thomas, what can
be the object in such? Not to purchase happiness therewith himself, nor yet to distribute it
to others; a very dog in the manger, he snarls above the hay he cannot eat, and is full of
any thoughts rather than of giving: whilst, as for his own pleasure, he manifestly will not
stop a minute to enjoy a taste of happiness, even if he finds it in his home; nay, more, if
it meets him by the way, and wishes to cling about his heart, he will be found often to fling
it off with scorn, as a reaper would the wild sweet corn-flower in some handful of wheat he
is cutting. O, Sir Thomas! is not poor Maria's love worth more than all your rich rude Jack's
sudden flush of money? is it not a deeper, higher, purer, wiser, more abundant source of pleasure?
You have yet to learn the wealth of her affections, and his poverty of soul.

It was not without heart-sickness, believe me, sore days and weeping nights, that affectionate
Maria saw her father growing more and more estranged from her. True, he had never met her love
so warmly that it was not somewhat checked and chilled; true, his nature had reversed the law
of reason, by having systematically treated her with less and less of kindness ever since the
nursery; she did seem able to remember something like affection in him while she was a prattling
infant; but as the mental daylight dawned apace, and she grew (one would fancy) worthier of
a rational creature's love, it strangely had diminished year by year; moreover, she could scarcely
look back upon one solitary occasion, whereon her father's voice had instructed her in knowledge,
spoken to her in sympathy, or guided her footsteps to religion. Still, habituated as she long
had now become to this daily martyrdom of heart, and sorely bruised by coarse and common worldliness
as had been every fibre of her feelings, she could not help perceiving that things got worse
and worse, as the knight grew richer and richer; and often-times her eyes ran over bitterly
for coldness and neglect. There was, indeed, her mother to fly to; but she never had been otherwise
than a very quiet creature, who made but little show of what feeling she possessed; and then
the daughter's loving heart was affectionately jealous of her father too.

"Why should he be so cold, with all his impetuosity? so formal, in spite of his rapidity? so
little generous of spirit, notwithstanding all his wonderful prosperity?"

Ah, Maria, if you had not been quite so unsophisticated, you would have left out the latter
"notwithstanding." Nothing hardens the heart, dear child, like prosperity; and nothing dries
up the affections more effectually than this hot pursuit of wealth. The deeper a man digs into
the gold mine, the less able--ay, less willing--is he to breathe the sweet air of upper earth,
or to bask in the daylight of heaven: downward, downward still, he casts the anchor of his
grovelling affections, and neither can nor will have a heart for any thing but gold.

Moreover, have you wondered, dear Maria, at the common fact (one sees it in every street, in
every village), that parental love is oftenest at its zenith in the nursery, and then falls
lower and lower on the firmament of human life, as the child gets older and older? Look at
all dumb brutes, the lower animals of this our earth; is it not thus by nature's law with them?
The lioness will perish to preserve that very whelp, whom she will rend a year or two hence,
meeting the young lion in the forest; the hen, so careful of her callow brood, will peck at
them, and buffet them away, directly they are fully fledged; the cow forgets how much she once
loved yonder well-grown heifer; and the terrier-bitch fights for a bit of gristle with her
own two-year-old, whom she used to nurse so tenderly, and famished her own bowels to feed.
And can you expect that men, who make as little use as possible of Heart, that unlucrative
commodity--who only exercise Reason for shrewd purposes of gain, not wise purposes of good,
and who might as well belong to Cunningham's "City of O," for any souls they seem to carry
about with them--can you expect that such unaffectioned, unintelligent, unspiritualized animals,
can rise far above the brute in feeling for their offspring? No, Maria; the nursery plaything
grows into the exiled school-boy; and the poor child, weaned from all he ought to love, soon
comes to be regarded in the light of an expensive youth; he is kept at arm's length, unblest,
uncaressed, unloved, unknown; then he grows up apace, and tops his father's inches; he is a
man now, and may well be turned adrift; if he can manage to make money, they are friends; but
if he can only contrive to spend it, enemies. Then the complacent father moans about ingratitude,
for he did his duty by the boy in sending him to school.

O, faults and follies of the by-gone times, which lingered even to a generation now speedily
passing away!--ye are waning with it, and a better dawn has broken on the world. Happily for
man, the multiplication of his kind, and pervading competition in all manner, of things mercantile,
are breaking down monopolies, and hindering unjust accumulation, with its necessary love of
gain. "Satisfied with little" is young England's cry; a better motto than the "Craving after
much" of their fathers. No longer immersed, single-handed, in a worldly business, which seven
competitors now relieve him of; no longer engrossed with the mint of gold gains, which a dozen
honest rivals now are sharing with him eagerly, the parent has leisure to instruct his children's
minds, to take an interest in their pursuits, and to cultivate their best affections. Home
is no longer the place perpetually to be driven from; the voices of paternal duty and domestic
love are thrillingly raised to lead the tuneful chorus of society; and fathers, as well as
mothers, are beginning to desire that their children may be able to remember them hereafter
as the ever-sympathizing friend, the wisely indulgent teacher, the guide of their religion,
and the guardian of their love; quite as much as the payer of their bills and the filler of
their purses.

The misfortune of a past and passing generation has been, too much money in too few hands;
its faults, neglect of duty; its folly, to expect therefrom the too-high meed of well-earned
gratitude; and from this triple root has grown up social selfishness, a general lack of Heart.
No parent ever yet, since the world was, did his duty properly, as God intended him to do it,
by the affections of the mind and the yearnings of the heart, as well as by the welfare of
the body with its means, and lived to complain of an ungrateful child. He may think he did
his duty; oh yes, good easy man! and say so too, very, very bitterly; and the world may echo
his most partial verdict, crying shame on the unnatural Goneril and Regan, bad daughters who
despise the Lear in old age, or on the dissolute and graceless youth, whose education cost
so much, and yields so very little. But money cannot compensate that maiden or that youth for
early and habitual injustice done to their budding minds, their sensitive hearts, their craving
souls, in higher, deeper, holier things than even cash could buy. "Home affections"--this was
the magic phrase inscribed upon the talisman they stole from that graceless youth; and the
loss of home affections is scantily counterbalanced at the best by a critical acquaintance
with 'Dawes's Canons,' and 'Bos on Ellipses,' in his ardent spring of life, and by a little
more of the paternal earnings which the legacy-office gives him in his manhood.

But let us not condemn generations past and passing, and wink at our own-time sins; we have
many motes yet in our eyes, not to call them very beams. The infant school, the factory, the
Union, and other wholesale centralizations, ruin the affections of our poor. O, for the spinning-wheel
again within the homely cottage, and those difficult spellings by the grand-dame's knee! There
is wisdom and stability in a land thick-set with such early local anchorages; but the other
is all false, republican, and unaffectioned. So, too, the luxurious city club has cheated many
a young pair of their just domestic happiness, for the husband grew dissatisfied with home
and all its poor humilities; whilst a bad political philosophy, discouraging marriage and denouncing
offspring, has insidiously crept into the very core of private families, setting children against
parents and parents against children, because a cold expediency winks at the decay of morals,
and all united social influences strike at the sacrifice of Heart.

We are forgetting you, poor affectionate Maria, and yet will it comfort your charity to listen.
For the time is coming--yea, now is--when a more generous, though poorer age will condemn the
Mammon phrensy of that which has preceded it. Boldly do we push our standards in advance, pressing
on the flying foe, certain that a gallant band will follow. Fearlessly, here and there, is
heard the voice of some solitary zealot, some isolated missionary for love, and truth, and
philanthropic good, some dauntless apostle in the cause of Heart, denouncing selfish wealth
as the canker of society: and, hark! that voice is not alone; there is a murmur on the breeze
as the sound of many waters; it comes, it comes! and the young have caught it up; and manhood
hears the thrilling strain that sinks into his soul; and old age, feebly listening, wonders
(never too late) that he had not hitherto been wiser; and the whole social universe electrically
touched from man to man, I hear them in their new-born generosities, penitently shouting "God
and Heart!" even louder than they execrate the memory of Dagon.

CHAPTER IV.

EXCUSATORY.

It really may be numbered among doubts whether it is possible to exaggerate the dangers into
which a fictionist may fall. My marvel is, that any go unstabbed. How on earth did Cervantes
continue to grow old, after having pointed the finger of derision at all grave Spain? There
is Boccaccio, too; he lived to turn threescore, in spite of the thousand husbands and wives,
who might pretty well imagine that he spoke of them. Only consider how many villains, drawn
to the life, Walter Scott created. What! were there no heads found to fit his many caps, hats,
helmets, and other capillary properties? What! are we so blind, so few of friends, that we
cannot each pick out of our social circles Mrs. Gore's Dowager, Mrs. Grey's Flirt, Mrs. Trollope's
Widow, and Boz's Mrs. Nickleby? Who can help thinking of his lawyer, when he makes acquaintance
with those immortal firms Dodson and Fogg, or Quirk, Snap, and Gammon? Is not Wrexhill libellous,
and Dr. Hookwell personal? Arise! avenge them both, ye zealous congregations! Why slumber pistols
that, should damage Bulwer? Why are the clasp-knives sheathed, which should have drunk the
blood of James? Hath every "[dash] good-natured friend" forgotten to be officious, and neglected
to demonstrate to relations and acquaintances that this white villain is Mr. A., and that old
virgin poor Miss B.? Speak, Plumer Ward, courageous veteran, Have the critics yet forgiven
Mr. John Paragraph--forgotten, is impossible? and how is it no house-keeper has arsenicked
my soup, O rash recruit, for the mysteries of perquisite divulged in Mrs. Quarles?

A dangerous craft is the tale-wright's, and difficult as dangerous. Human nature goes in casts,
as garden-pots do. Lo, you! the crowd of thumb-pots; mean little tiny minds in multitudes,
as near alike as possible. Then there are the frequent thirty-twos, average "clever creatures"
in this mental age, wherein no one can make an ordinary how-d'ye-do acquaintance without being
advertised of his or her surprising talents: and to pass by all intermediate sizes, here and
there standing by himself, in all the prickly pride of an immortal aloe, some one big pot monopolizes
all the cast of earth, domineering over the conservatory as Brutus's colossal Caesar, or his
metempsychosis in a Wellington.

Again: no painter ever yet drew life-likeness, who had not the living models at least in his
mind's eye: but no good painter ever yet betrayed the model in his figure; unless (though these
instances are rarish too) we except, pace Lawrence, the mystery of portraiture. He takes indeed
a line here and a colour there; but he softens this and heightens that; so that none but he
can well discover any trace of Homer's noble head in yonder sightless beggar, or Juno's queenly
form in the Welsh woman trudging with her strawberry load to Covent Garden market.

Flatter not thyself, fair Helen, I have not pictured thee in gentle Grace: tremble not, my
little white friend Clatter, thou art by no means Simon Jennings. Dark Caroline Blunt, it is
true thou hast fine eyes; nevertheless, in nothing else (I am sorry to assure thee) art thou
at all like Emily Warren. Flaunting Lady Busbury, be calm; if you had not been so wrathful,
I never should have thought of you--undoubtedly you are not the type of Mrs. Tracy.

Why will all these people don my imaginary characters? Truly, it may seem to be a compliment,
as proving that they speak from heart to heart, of universal human nature, not unaptly; still
is their inventor or creator embarrassed terribly by such unwelcome honours; your precious
balms oppress him, gentle friends; lift off your palm branches; indeed, he is unworthy of these
petty triumphs; and, to be serious, he detests them.

No: once and for all, let a plain first person say it, I abjure personalities; my arrows are
shot at a venture; and if they hit any one at all, it is only that he stands in my shaft's
way, and the harness of his conscience is unbuckled. The target of my feeble aim is general--to
pierce the heart of evil, evil in the form of social heartlessness: it is no fault of mine,
if some alarmed particulars will crowd about the mark. Ideal characters, ideal incidents, ideal
scenes--to these I honestly pledge myself: but as most men have two eyes, being neither naturally
monocular nor triocular, so most men of their own special cast have similar distinguishable
sympathies.

The overweening love of money is a seed, a soil, and a sun that generates a certain crop: the
aim of my poor husbandry is only to reap this; but my sickle does not wish to wound the growers:
let them stand aside; or, better far, let them help me cut those rank and clogging tares, and
bind them up in bundles to be burned. Heart is a sweet-smelling shrub, ill to stand against
the chilling breath of worldliness: my small care desires to cherish this; gather round it,
friends! shelter it beside me. How many fragrant flowers now are bursting into beauty! how
cheering is their scent! how healthful the aroma of their bloom! Pluck them with me; they are
sweet, delicate, and lustrous to look upon, even as the night-blowing cereus.

Henceforth then, social circle, feel at peace with such as I am, whose public parable would
teach, without any thought of personality, entirely disclaiming private interpretations: there
are other people stout besides one's uncle, other people deaf besides one's aunt. Sir Thomas
Dillaway is not Alderman Bunce, nor any other friend or foe I wot of; a mere creature of the
counting-house, he is a human ledger-mushroom: rub away the mildew from your hearts, if any
seem to see yourselves in him: neither have I ventured to transplant Miss Cassiopeia Curtis's
red hair to dear Maria's head: imitate her graces, if you will, maiden; but charge me not with
copying your locks. Though "my son Jack" be a boisterous big rogue, on 'Change, and off it--let
not mine own honest stock-broker put that hat upon his head, in the mono-mania that it fits
him, because he may heretofore have been both bull and bear; and as for any other heroes yet
to come upon this scene, to enact the tragedy or comedy of Heart--"Know all men by these presents,"--your
humble servant's will is to smite bad principles, not offending persons; to crusade against
evil manners, not his guilty fellow-men.

Wo is me! who am I, that I should satirize my brethren?--Yet, wo is me--if I silently hide
the sin I see. Make me not an offender for a word, seeing that my purposes are good. Be not
hypercritical, for Heart's sake, against a man whose aim it is to help the cause of Heart.
Neither count it sufficient to answer me with an inconclusive "tu quoque:" I know it, I feel
it, I confess it, I would away with it. Heaven send to him that writes, as liberally as to
those who read (yea, more, according to his deeper needs and failings) the grace to counteract
all mammonizing blights, and to cultivate this garden of the Heart.

CHAPTER V.

WHEREIN A WELL-MEANING MOTHER ACTS VERY FOOLISHLY.

Returned from her unsuccessful embassage, Lady Dillaway determined--kind, calm soul--to hide
the bitter truth from poor Maria, that her father was inexorably adverse. A scene was of all
things that indentical article least liked by the quiescent mother; and that her warm-hearted
daughter would enact one, if she heard those echoes of paternal love, was clearly a problem
requiring no demonstration.

Accordingly, with well-intentioned kindliness, but shallowish wisdom, and most questionable
propriety, Maria was persuaded to believe that her father had hem'd and haw'd a little, had
objected no doubt to Henry's lack of money, but would certainly, on second thoughts, consider
the affair more favourably:

"You know your father's way, my love; leave him to himself, and I am sure his better feeling
will not fail to plead your cause: it will be prudent, however, just for quiet's sake, to see
less of Henry Clements for a day or two, till the novelty of my intelligence blows over. Meantime,
do not cry, dear child; take courage, all will be well; and I will give you my free leave to
console your Henry too."

