"Thou didst, De Vaux; thou wast right, and I confess it," said Richard. "I should have known
him better--I should have remembered how the fox William deceived me touching this Crusade."

"My lord," said Sir Kenneth, "William of Scotland never deceived; but circumstances prevented
his bringing his forces."

"Peace, shameless!" said the King; "thou sulliest the name of a prince, even by speaking it.--And
yet, De Vaux, it is strange," he added, "to see the bearing of the man. Coward or traitor he
must be, yet he abode the blow of Richard Plantagenet as our arm had been raised to lay knighthood
on his shoulder. Had he shown the slightest sign of fear, had but a joint trembled or an eyelid
quivered, I had shattered his head like a crystal goblet. But I cannot strike where there is
neither fear nor resistance."

There was a pause.

"My lord," said Kenneth--

"Ha!" replied Richard, interrupting him, "hast thou found thy speech? Ask grace from Heaven,
but none from me; for England is dishonoured through thy fault, and wert thou mine own and
only brother, there is no pardon for thy fault."

"I speak not to demand grace of mortal man," said the Scot; "it is in your Grace's pleasure
to give or refuse me time for Christian shrift--if man denies it, may God grant me the absolution
which I would otherwise ask of His church! But whether I die on the instant, or half an hour
hence, I equally beseech your Grace for one moment's opportunity to speak that to your royal
person which highly concerns your fame as a Christian king."

"Say on," said the King, making no doubt that he was about to hear some confession concerning
the loss of the Banner.

"What I have to speak," said Sir Kenneth, "touches the royalty of England, and must be said
to no ears but thine own."

"Begone with yourselves, sirs," said the King to Neville and De Vaux.

The first obeyed, but the latter would not stir from the King's presence.

"If you said I was in the right," replied De Vaux to his sovereign, "I will be treated as one
should be who hath been found to be right--that is, I will have my own will. I leave you not
with this false Scot."

"How! De Vaux," said Richard angrily, and stamping slightly, "darest thou not venture our person
with one traitor?"

"It is in vain you frown and stamp, my lord," said De Vaux; "I venture not a sick man with
a sound one, a naked man with one armed in proof."

"It matters not," said the Scottish knight; "I seek no excuse to put off time. I will speak
in presence of the Lord of Gilsland. He is good lord and true."

"But half an hour since," said De Vaux, with a groan, implying a mixture of sorrow and vexation,
"and I had said as much for thee!"

"There is treason around you, King of England," continued Sir Kenneth.

"It may well be as thou sayest," replied Richard; "I have a pregnant example."

"Treason that will injure thee more deeply than the loss of a hundred banners in a pitched
field. The--the--" Sir Kenneth hesitated, and at length continued, in a lower tone, "The Lady
Edith--"

"Ha!" said the King, drawing himself suddenly into a state of haughty attention, and fixing
his eye firmly on the supposed criminal; "what of her? what of her? What has she to do with
this matter?"

"My lord," said the Scot, "there is a scheme on foot to disgrace your royal lineage, by bestowing
the hand of the Lady Edith on the Saracen Soldan, and thereby to purchase a peace most dishonourable
to Christendom, by an alliance most shameful to England."

This communication had precisely the contrary effect from that which Sir Kenneth expected.
Richard Plantagenet was one of those who, in Iago's words, would not serve God because it was
the devil who bade him; advice or information often affected him less according to its real
import, than through the tinge which it took from the supposed character and views of those
by whom it was communicated. Unfortunately, the mention of his relative's name renewed his
recollection of what he had considered as extreme presumption in the Knight of the Leopard,
even when he stood high in the roll of chivalry, but which, in his present condition, appeared
an insult sufficient to drive the fiery monarch into a frenzy of passion.

"Silence," he said, "infamous and audacious! By Heaven, I will have thy tongue torn out with
hot pincers, for mentioning the very name of a noble Christian damsel! Know, degenerate traitor,
that I was already aware to what height thou hadst dared to raise thine eyes, and endured it,
though it were insolence, even when thou hadst cheated us--for thou art all a deceit--into
holding thee as of some name and fame. But now, with lips blistered with the confession of
thine own dishonour--that thou shouldst NOW dare to name our noble kinswoman as one in whose
fate thou hast part or interest! What is it to thee if she marry Saracen or Christian? What
is it to thee if, in a camp where princes turn cowards by day and robbers by night--where brave
knights turn to paltry deserters and traitors--what is it, I say, to thee, or any one, if I
should please to ally myself to truth and to valour, in the person of Saladin?"

"Little to me, indeed, to whom all the world will soon be as nothing," answered Sir Kenneth
boldly; "but were I now stretched on the rack, I would tell thee that what I have said is much
to thine own conscience and thine own fame. I tell thee, Sir King, that if thou dost but in
thought entertain the purpose of wedding thy kinswoman, the Lady Edith--"

"Name her not--and for an instant think not of her," said the King, again straining the curtal-axe
in his gripe, until the muscles started above his brawny arm, like cordage formed by the ivy
around the limb of an oak.

"Not name--not think of her!" answered Sir Kenneth, his spirits, stunned as they were by self-depression,
beginning to recover their elasticity from this species of controversy. "Now, by the Cross,
on which I place my hope, her name shall be the last word in my mouth, her image the last thought
in my mind. Try thy boasted strength on this bare brow, and see if thou canst prevent my purpose."

"He will drive me mad!" said Richard, who, in his despite, was once more staggered in his purpose
by the dauntless determination of the criminal.

Ere Thomas of Gilsland could reply, some bustle was heard without, and the arrival of the Queen
was announced from the outer part of the pavilion.

"Detain her--detain her, Neville," cried the King; "this is no sight for women.--Fie, that
I have suffered such a paltry traitor to chafe me thus!--Away with him, De Vaux," he whispered,
"through the back entrance of our tent; coop him up close, and answer for his safe custody
with your life. And hark ye--he is presently to die--let him have a ghostly father--we would
not kill soul and body. And stay--hark thee--we will not have him dishonoured--he shall die
knightlike, in his belt and spurs; for if his treachery be as black as hell, his boldness may
match that of the devil himself."

De Vaux, right glad, if the truth may be guessed, that the scene ended without Richard's descending
to the unkingly act of himself slaying an unresisting prisoner, made haste to remove Sir Kenneth
by a private issue to a separate tent, where he was disarmed, and put in fetters for security.
De Vaux looked on with a steady and melancholy attention, while the provost's officers, to
whom Sir Kenneth was now committed, took these severe precautions.

When they were ended, he said solemnly to the unhappy criminal, "It is King Richard's pleasure
that you die undegraded--without mutilation of your body, or shame to your arms--and that your
head be severed from the trunk by the sword of the executioner."

"It is kind," said the knight, in a low and rather submissive tone of voice, as one who received
an unexpected favour; "my family will not then hear the worst of the tale. Oh, my father--my
father!"

This muttered invocation did not escape the blunt but kindly-natured Englishman, and he brushed
the back of his large hand over his rough features ere he could proceed.

"It is Richard of England's further pleasure," he said at length, "that you have speech with
a holy man; and I have met on the passage hither with a Carmelite friar, who may fit you for
your passage. He waits without, until you are in a frame of mind to receive him."

"Let it be instantly," said the knight. "In this also Richard is kind. I cannot be more fit
to see the good father at any time than now; for life and I have taken farewell, as two travellers
who have arrived at the crossway, where their roads separate."

"It is well," said De Vaux slowly and solemnly; "for it irks me somewhat to say that which
sums my message. It is King Richard's pleasure that you prepare for instant death."

"God's pleasure and the King's be done," replied the knight patiently. "I neither contest the
justice of the sentence, nor desire delay of the execution."

De Vaux began to leave the tent, but very slowly--paused at the door, and looked back at the
Scot, from whose aspect thoughts of the world seemed banished, as if he was composing himself
into deep devotion. The feelings of the stout English baron were in general none of the most
acute, and yet, on the present occasion, his sympathy overpowered him in an unusual manner.
He came hastily back to the bundle of reeds on which the captive lay, took one of his fettered
hands, and said, with as much softness as his rough voice was capable of expressing, "Sir Kenneth,
thou art yet young--thou hast a father. My Ralph, whom I left training his little galloway
nag on the banks of the Irthing, may one day attain thy years, and, but for last night, would
to God I saw his youth bear such promise as thine! Can nothing be said or done in thy behalf?"

"Nothing," was the melancholy answer. "I have deserted my charge--the banner entrusted to me
is lost. When the headsman and block are prepared, the head and trunk are ready to part company."

"Nay, then, God have mercy!" said De Vaux. "Yet would I rather than my best horse I had taken
that watch myself. There is mystery in it, young man, as a plain man may descry, though he
cannot see through it. Cowardice? Pshaw! No coward ever fought as I have seen thee do. Treachery?
I cannot think traitors die in their treason so calmly. Thou hast been trained from thy post
by some deep guile--some well-devised stratagem--the cry of some distressed maiden has caught
thine ear, or the laughful look of some merry one has taken thine eye. Never blush for it;
we have all been led aside by such gear. Come, I pray thee, make a clean conscience of it to
me, instead of the priest. Richard is merciful when his mood is abated. Hast thou nothing to
entrust to me?"

The unfortunate knight turned his face from the kind warrior, and answered, "NOTHING."

And De Vaux, who had exhausted his topics of persuasion, arose and left the tent, with folded
arms, and in melancholy deeper than he thought the occasion merited--even angry with himself
to find that so simple a matter as the death of a Scottish man could affect him so nearly.

"Yet," as he said to himself, "though the rough-footed knaves be our enemies in Cumberland,
in Palestine one almost considers them as brethren."

CHAPTER XVI.

     'Tis not her sense, for sure in that
     There's nothing more than common;
     And all her wit is only chat,
     Like any other woman.
        SONG.

The high-born Berengaria, daughter of Sanchez, King of Navarre, and the Queen-Consort of the
heroic Richard, was accounted one of the most beautiful women of the period. Her form was slight,
though exquisitely moulded. She was graced with a complexion not common in her country, a profusion
of fair hair, and features so extremely juvenile as to make her look several years younger
than she really was, though in reality she was not above one-and-twenty. Perhaps it was under
the consciousness of this extremely juvenile appearance that she affected, or at least practised,
a little childish petulance and wilfulness of manner, not unbefitting, she might suppose, a
youthful bride, whose rank and age gave her a right to have her fantasies indulged and attended
to. She was by nature perfectly good-humoured, and if her due share of admiration and homage
(in her opinion a very large one) was duly resigned to her, no one could possess better temper
or a more friendly disposition; but then, like all despots, the more power that was voluntarily
yielded to her, the more she desired to extend her sway. Sometimes, even when all her ambition
was gratified, she chose to be a little out of health, and a little out of spirits; and physicians
had to toil their wits to invent names for imaginary maladies, while her ladies racked their
imagination for new games, new head-gear, and new court-scandal, to pass away those unpleasant
hours, during which their own situation was scarce to be greatly envied. Their most frequent
resource for diverting this malady was some trick or piece of mischief practised upon each
other; and the good Queen, in the buoyancy of her reviving spirits, was, to speak truth, rather
too indifferent whether the frolics thus practised were entirely befitting her own dignity,
or whether the pain which those suffered upon whom they were inflicted was not beyond the proportion
of pleasure which she herself derived from them. She was confident in her husband's favour,
in her high rank, and in her supposed power to make good whatever such pranks might cost others.
In a word, she gambolled with the freedom of a young lioness, who is unconscious of the weight
of her own paws when laid on those whom she sports with.

The Queen Berengaria loved her husband passionately, but she feared the loftiness and roughness
of his character; and as she felt herself not to be his match in intellect, was not much pleased
to see that he would often talk with Edith Plantagenet in preference to herself, simply because
he found more amusement in her conversation, a more comprehensive understanding, and a more
noble cast of thoughts and sentiments, than his beautiful consort exhibited. Berengaria did
not hate Edith on this account, far less meditate her any harm; for, allowing for some selfishness,
her character was, on the whole, innocent and generous. But the ladies of her train, sharpsighted
in such matters, had for some time discovered that a poignant jest at the expense of the Lady
Edith was a specific for relieving her Grace of England's low spirits, and the discovery saved
their imagination much toil.

There was something ungenerous in this, because the Lady Edith was understood to be an orphan;
and though she was called Plantagenet, and the fair Maid of Anjou, and admitted by Richard
to certain privileges only granted to the royal family, and held her place in the circle accordingly,
yet few knew, and none acquainted with the Court of England ventured to ask, in what exact
degree of relationship she stood to Coeur de Lion. She had come with Eleanor, the celebrated
Queen Mother of England, and joined Richard at Messina, as one of the ladies destined to attend
on Berengaria, whose nuptials then approached. Richard treated his kinswoman with much respectful
observance, and the Queen made her her most constant attendant, and, even in despite of the
petty jealousy which we have observed, treated her, generally, with suitable respect.

The ladies of the household had, for a long time, no further advantage over Edith than might
be afforded by an opportunity of censuring a less artfully disposed head attire or an unbecoming
robe; for the lady was judged to be inferior in these mysteries. The silent devotion of the
Scottish knight did not, indeed, pass unnoticed; his liveries, his cognizances, his feats of
arms, his mottoes and devices, were nearly watched, and occasionally made the subject of a
passing jest. But then came the pilgrimage of the Queen and her ladies to Engaddi, a journey
which the Queen had undertaken under a vow for the recovery of her husband's health, and which
she had been encouraged to carry into effect by the Archbishop of Tyre for a political purpose.
It was then, and in the chapel at that holy place, connected from above with a Carmelite nunnery,
from beneath with the cell of the anchorite, that one of the Queen's attendants remarked that
secret sign of intelligence which Edith had made to her lover, and failed not instantly to
communicate it to her Majesty. The Queen returned from her pilgrimage enriched with this admirable
recipe against dullness or ennui; and her train was at the same time augmented by a present
of two wretched dwarfs from the dethroned Queen of Jerusalem, as deformed and as crazy (the
excellence of that unhappy species) as any Queen could have desired. One of Berengaria's idle
amusements had been to try the effect of the sudden appearance of such ghastly and fantastic
forms on the nerves of the Knight when left alone in the chapel; but the jest had been lost
by the composure of the Scot and the interference of the anchorite. She had now tried another,
of which the consequences promised to be more serious.

The ladies again met after Sir Kenneth had retired from the tent, and the Queen, at first little
moved by Edith's angry expostulations, only replied to her by upbraiding her prudery, and by
indulging her wit at the expense of the garb, nation, and, above all the poverty of the Knight
of the Leopard, in which she displayed a good deal of playful malice, mingled with some humour,
until Edith was compelled to carry her anxiety to her separate apartment. But when, in the
morning, a female whom Edith had entrusted to make inquiry brought word that the Standard was
missing, and its champion vanished, she burst into the Queen's apartment, and implored her
to rise and proceed to the King's tent without delay, and use her powerful mediation to prevent
the evil consequences of her jest.

The Queen, frightened in her turn, cast, as is usual, the blame of her own folly on those around
her, and endeavoured to comfort Edith's grief, and appease her displeasure, by a thousand inconsistent
arguments. She was sure no harm had chanced--the knight was sleeping, she fancied, after his
night-watch. What though, for fear of the King's displeasure, he had deserted with the Standard--it
was but a piece of silk, and he but a needy adventurer; or if he was put under warding for
a time, she would soon get the King to pardon him--it was but waiting to let Richard's mood
pass away.

Thus she continued talking thick and fast, and heaping together all sorts of inconsistencies,
with the vain expectation of persuading both Edith and herself that no harm could come of a
frolic which in her heart she now bitterly repented. But while Edith in vain strove to intercept
this torrent of idle talk, she caught the eye of one of the ladies who entered the Queen's
apartment. There was death in her look of affright and horror, and Edith, at the first glance
of her countenance, had sunk at once on the earth, had not strong necessity and her own elevation
of character enabled her to maintain at least external composure.

"Madam," she said to the Queen, "lose not another word in speaking, but save life--if, indeed,"
she added, her voice choking as she said it, "life may yet be saved."

"It may, it may," answered the Lady Calista. "I have just heard that he has been brought before
the King. It is not yet over--but," she added, bursting into a vehement flood of weeping, in
which personal apprehensions had some share, "it will soon, unless some course be taken."

"I will vow a golden candlestick to the Holy Sepulchre, a shrine of silver to our Lady of Engaddi,
a pall, worth one hundred byzants, to Saint Thomas of Orthez," said the Queen in extremity.

"Up, up, madam!" said Edith; "call on the saints if you list, but be your own best saint."

"Indeed, madam," said the terrified attendant, "the Lady Edith speaks truth. Up, madam, and
let us to King Richard's tent and beg the poor gentleman's life."

"I will go--I will go instantly," said the Queen, rising and trembling excessively; while her
women, in as great confusion as herself, were unable to render her those duties which were
indispensable to her levee. Calm, composed, only pale as death, Edith ministered to the Queen
with her own hand, and alone supplied the deficiencies of her numerous attendants.

"How you wait, wenches!" said the Queen, not able even then to forget frivolous distinctions.
"Suffer ye the Lady Edith to do the duties of your attendance? Seest thou, Edith, they can
do nothing; I shall never be attired in time. We will send for the Archbishop of Tyre, and
employ him as a mediator."

"Oh, no, no!" exclaimed Edith. "Go yourself madam; you have done the evil, do you confer the
remedy."

"I will go--I will go," said the Queen; "but if Richard be in his mood, I dare not speak to
him--he will kill me!"

"Yet go, gracious madam," said the Lady Calista, who best knew her mistress's temper; "not
a lion, in his fury, could look upon such a face and form, and retain so much as an angry thought,
far less a love-true knight like the royal Richard, to whom your slightest word would be a
command."

"Dost thou think so, Calista?" said the Queen. "Ah, thou little knowest yet I will go. But
see you here, what means this? You have bedizened me in green, a colour he detests. Lo you!
let me have a blue robe, and--search for the ruby carcanet, which was part of the King of Cyprus's
ransom; it is either in the steel casket, or somewhere else."

"This, and a man's life at stake!" said Edith indignantly; "it passes human patience. Remain
at your ease, madam; I will go to King Richard. I am a party interested. I will know if the
honour of a poor maiden of his blood is to be so far tampered with that her name shall be abused
to train a brave gentleman from his duty, bring him within the compass of death and infamy,
and make, at the same time, the glory of England a laughing-stock to the whole Christian army."

At this unexpected burst of passion, Berengaria listened with an almost stupefied look of fear
and wonder. But as Edith was about to leave the tent, she exclaimed, though faintly, "Stop
her, stop her!"

"You must indeed stop, noble Lady Edith," said Calista, taking her arm gently; "and you, royal
madam, I am sure, will go, and without further dallying. If the Lady Edith goes alone to the
King, he will be dreadfully incensed, nor will it be one life that will stay his fury."

"I will go--I will go," said the Queen, yielding to necessity; and Edith reluctantly halted
to wait her movements.

They were now as speedy as she could have desired. The Queen hastily wrapped herself in a large
loose mantle, which covered all inaccuracies of the toilet. In this guise, attended by Edith
and her women, and preceded and followed by a few officers and men-at-arms, she hastened to
the tent of her lionlike husband.

CHAPTER XVII.

     Were every hair upon his head a life,
     And every life were to be supplicated
     By numbers equal to those hairs quadrupled,
     Life after life should out like waning stars
     Before the daybreak--or as festive lamps,
     Which have lent lustre to the midnight revel,
     Each after each are quench'd when guests depart!
          OLD PLAY

The entrance of Queen Berengaria into the interior of Richard's pavilion was withstood--in
the most respectful and reverential manner indeed, but still withstood--by the chamberlains
who watched in the outer tent. She could hear the stern command of the King from within, prohibiting
their entrance.

"You see," said the Queen, appealing to Edith, as if she had exhausted all means of intercession
in her power; "I knew it--the King will not receive us."

At the same time, they heard Richard speak to some one within:--"Go, speed thine office quickly,
sirrah, for in that consists thy mercy--ten byzants if thou dealest on him at one blow. And
hark thee, villain, observe if his cheek loses colour, or his eye falters; mark me the smallest
twitch of the features, or wink of the eyelid. I love to know how brave souls meet death."

"If he sees my blade waved aloft without shrinking, he is the first ever did so," answered
a harsh, deep voice, which a sense of unusual awe had softened into a sound much lower than
its usual coarse tones.

Edith could remain silent no longer. "If your Grace," she said to the Queen, "make not your
own way, I make it for you; or if not for your Majesty, for myself at least.--Chamberlain,
the Queen demands to see King Richard--the wife to speak with her husband."

"Noble lady," said the officer, lowering his wand of office, "it grieves me to gainsay you,
but his Majesty is busied on matters of life and death."

"And we seek also to speak with him on matters of life and death," said Edith. "I will make
entrance for your Grace." And putting aside the chamberlain with one hand, she laid hold on
the curtain with the other.

"I dare not gainsay her Majesty's pleasure," said the chamberlain, yielding to the vehemence
of the fair petitioner; and as he gave way, the Queen found herself obliged to enter the apartment
of Richard.

The Monarch was lying on his couch, and at some distance, as awaiting his further commands,
stood a man whose profession it was not difficult to conjecture. He was clothed in a jerkin
of red cloth, which reached scantly below the shoulders, leaving the arms bare from about half
way above the elbow; and as an upper garment, he wore, when about as at present to betake himself
to his dreadful office, a coat or tabard without sleeves, something like that of a herald,
made of dressed bull's hide, and stained in the front with many a broad spot and speckle of
dull crimson. The jerkin, and the tabard over it, reached the knee; and the nether stocks,
or covering of the legs, were of the same leather which composed the tabard. A cap of rough
shag served to hide the upper part of a visage which, like that of a screech owl, seemed desirous
to conceal itself from light, the lower part of the face being obscured by a huge red beard,
mingling with shaggy locks of the same colour. What features were seen were stern and misanthropical.
The man's figure was short, strongly made, with a neck like a bull, very broad shoulders, arms
of great and disproportioned length, a huge square trunk, and thick bandy legs. This truculent
official leant on a sword, the blade of which was nearly four feet and a half in length, while
the handle of twenty inches, surrounded by a ring of lead plummets to counterpoise the weight
of such a blade, rose considerably above the man's head as he rested his arm upon its hilt,
waiting for King Richard's further directions.

On the sudden entrance of the ladies, Richard, who was then lying on his couch with his face
towards the entrance, and resting on his elbow as he spoke to his grisly attendant, flung himself
hastily, as if displeased and surprised, to the other side, turning his back to the Queen and
the females of her train, and drawing around him the covering of his couch, which, by his own
choice, or more probably the flattering selection of his chamberlains, consisted of two large
lions' skins, dressed in Venice with such admirable skill that they seemed softer than the
hide of the deer.

Berengaria, such as we have described her, knew well--what woman knows not?--her own road to
victory. After a hurried glance of undisguised and unaffected terror at the ghastly companion
of her husband's secret counsels, she rushed at once to the side of Richard's couch, dropped
on her knees, flung her mantle from her shoulders, showing, as they hung down at their full
length, her beautiful golden tresses, and while her countenance seemed like the sun bursting
through a cloud, yet bearing on its pallid front traces that its splendours have been obscured,
she seized upon the right hand of the King, which, as he assumed his wonted posture, had been
employed in dragging the covering of his couch, and gradually pulling it to her with a force
which was resisted, though but faintly, she possessed herself of that arm, the prop of Christendom
and the dread of Heathenesse, and imprisoning its strength in both her little fairy hands,
she bent upon it her brow, and united to it her lips.

"What needs this, Berengaria?" said Richard, his head still averted, but his hand remaining
under her control.

"Send away that man, his look kills me!" muttered Berengaria.

"Begone, sirrah," said Richard, still without looking round, "What wait'st thou for? art thou
fit to look on these ladies?"

"Your Highness's pleasure touching the head," said the man.

"Out with thee, dog!" answered Richard--"a Christian burial!" The man disappeared, after casting
a look upon the beautiful Queen, in her deranged dress and natural loveliness, with a smile
of admiration more hideous in its expression than even his usual scowl of cynical hatred against
humanity.

"And now, foolish wench, what wishest thou?" said Richard, turning slowly and half reluctantly
round to his royal suppliant.

But it was not in nature for any one, far less an admirer of beauty like Richard, to whom it
stood only in the second rank to glory, to look without emotion on the countenance and the
tremor of a creature so beautiful as Berengaria, or to feel, without sympathy, that her lips,
her brow, were on his hand, and that it was wetted by her tears. By degrees, he turned on her
his manly countenance, with the softest expression of which his large blue eye, which so often
gleamed with insufferable light, was capable. Caressing her fair head, and mingling his large
fingers in her beautiful and dishevelled locks, he raised and tenderly kissed the cherub countenance
which seemed desirous to hide itself in his hand. The robust form, the broad, noble brow and
majestic looks, the naked arm and shoulder, the lions' skins among which he lay, and the fair,
fragile feminine creature that kneeled by his side, might have served for a model of Hercules
reconciling himself, after a quarrel, to his wife Dejanira.

"And, once more, what seeks the lady of my heart in her knight's pavilion at this early and
unwonted hour?"

"Pardon, my most gracious liege--pardon!" said the Queen, whose fears began again to unfit
her for the duty of intercessor.

"Pardon--for what?" asked the King.

"First, for entering your royal presence too boldly and unadvisedly--"

She stopped.

"THOU too boldly!--the sun might as well ask pardon because his rays entered the windows of
some wretch's dungeon. But I was busied with work unfit for thee to witness, my gentle one;
and I was unwilling, besides, that thou shouldst risk thy precious health where sickness had
been so lately rife."

"But thou art now well?" said the Queen, still delaying the communication which she feared to make.

"Well enough to break a lance on the bold crest of that champion who shall refuse to acknowledge
thee the fairest dame in Christendom."

