HABITAT.--The tiger, as far as we are concerned, is known throughout the Indian peninsula and
away down the eastern countries to the Malayan archipelago. In Ceylon it is not found, but
it extends to the Himalayas, and ranges up to heights of 6000 to 8000 feet. Generally speaking
it is confined to Asia, but in that continent it has a wide distribution. It has been found
as far north as the island of Saghalien, which is bisected by N. L. 50 degrees. This is its
extreme north-eastern limit, the Caspian Sea being its westerly boundary. From parallel 50
degrees downwards it is found in many parts of the highlands of central Asia.

DESCRIPTION.--A large heavy bodied Cat, much developed in the fore-quarters, with short, close
hair of a bright rufous ground tint from every shade of pale yellow ochre to burnt sienna,
with black stripes arranged irregularly and seldom in two individuals alike, the stripes being
also irregular in form, from single streaks to loops and broad bands. In some the brows and
cheeks are white, and in all the chin, throat, breast, and belly are pure white. All parts,
however, whether white or rufous, are equally pervaded by the black stripes. The males have
prolonged hairs extending from the ears round the cheeks, forming a ruff, or whiskers as they
are sometimes called, although the true whiskers are the labial bristles. The pupil of the
tiger's eye is round, and not vertical, as stated by Jerdon.

SIZE.--Here we come to a much-vexed question, on which there is much divergence of opinion,
and the controversy will never be decided until sportsmen have adopted a more correct system
of measurement. At present the universal plan is to measure the animal as it lies on the ground,
taking the tape from the tip of the nose to the end of the tail. I will undertake that no two
men will measure the same tiger with equal results if the body be at all disturbed between
the two operations. If care be not taken to raise the head so as to bring the plane of the
skull in a line with the vertebrae, the downward deflection will cause increased measurement.
Let any one try this on the next opportunity, or on the dead body of a cat. Care should be
taken in measuring that the head be raised, so that the top of the skull be as much as possible
in a line with the vertebrae. A stake should be then driven in at the nose and another close
in at the root of the tail, and the measurement taken between the two stakes, and not round
the curves. The tail, which is an unimportant matter, but which in the present system of measurement
is a considerable factor, should be measured and noted separately. I am not a believer in tails
(or tales), and have always considered that they should be excluded from measurements except
as an addition. I spoke of this in 'Seonee' in the following terms: "If all tigers were measured
honestly, a twelve-foot animal would never be heard of. All your big fellows are measured from
stretched skins, and are as exaggerated as are the accounts of the dangers incurred in killing
them--at least in many cases. But even the true method of measuring the unskinned animal is
faulty; it is an apparent fact that a tail has very little to do with the worthiness of a creature,
otherwise our bull-dogs would have their caudal appendages left in peace. Now every shikari
knows that there may be a heavy tiger with a short tail and a light bodied one with a long
tail. Yet the measurement of each would be equal, and give no criterion as to the size of the
brute. Here's this tiger of yours; I call him a heavy one, twenty-eight inches round the fore-arm,
and big in every way, yet his measurement does not sound large (it was 9 feet 10 inches), and
had he six inches more tail he would gain immensely by it in reputation. The biggest panther
I ever shot had a stump only six inches long; and according to the usual system of measuring
he would have read as being a very small creature indeed." Tails do vary. Sir Walter Elliot
was a very careful observer, and in his comparison of the two largest males and two largest
females, killed between 1829 and 1833, out of 70 to 80 specimens, it will be seen that the
largest animal in each sex had the shortest tail:--

---------------------------------------------------------------
                        |    Adult Male.    |   Adult Female.
------------------------+-------------------+------------------
                        | ft. in. | ft. in. | ft. in. | ft. in.
Length of head and body | 6   2   | 5   6   | 5 3-1/2 | 5   2
                        |         |         |         |
Length of tail          | 3 1-1/2 | 3   3   | 2   11  | 3   2
                        |---------+---------|---------|--------
                        | 9 3-1/2 | 8   9   | 8 2-1/2 | 8   4
---------------------------------------------------------------

Campbell, in his notes to 'The Old Forest-Ranger,' gives the dimensions of a tiger of 9 ft.
5 in. of which the tail was only 2 ft. 10 in. From the other detailed measurements it must
have been an enormous tiger. The number of caudal vertebrae in the tiger and lion should be
twenty-six. I now regret that I did not carefully examine the osteology of all short-tailed
tigers which I have come across, to see whether they had the full complement of vertebrae.
The big tiger in the museum is short by the six terminal joints = three inches. This may have
occurred during life, as in the case of the above-quoted panther; anyhow the tail should, I
think, be thrown out of the calculation. Now as to the measurement of the head and body, I
quite acknowledge that there must be a different standard for the sportsman and for the scientific
naturalist. For the latter the only reliable data are derived from the bones. Bones cannot
err. Except in very few abnormal conditions the whole skeleton is in accurate proportion, and
it has lately struck me that from a certain measurement of the skull a true estimate might
be formed of the length of the skeleton, and approximately the size of the animal over the
muscles. I at first thought of taking the length of the skull by a craniometer, and seeing
what portion of the total length to the posterior edge of the sacrum it would be, but I soon
discarded the idea on account of the variation in the supra-occipital process.

I then took the palatal measurement, from the outer edge of the border in which the incisors
are set to the anterior inside edge of the brain-hole, or foramen magnum, and I find that this
standard is sufficiently accurate, and is 5.50 of the length taken from the tip of the premaxillaries
to the end of the sacrum. Therefore the length of this portion of any tiger's skull multiplied
by 5.50 will give the measurement of the head and body of the skeleton.

For the purpose of working out these figures I applied to all my sporting friends for measurements
of their largest skulls, with a view to settling the question about tigers exceeding eleven
feet. The museum possesses the skeleton of a tiger which was considered one of the largest
known, the cranial measurement of whose skull is 14.50 inches, but the Maharajah of Cooch Behar
showed me one of his skulls which exceeded it, being 15 inches. Amongst others I wrote to Mr.
J. Shillingford of Purneah, and he most kindly not only drew up for me a tabular statement
of the dimensions of the finest skulls out of his magnificent collection, but sent down two
for my inspection. Now in the long-waged war of opinion regarding the size of tigers I have
always kept a reserved attitude, for if I have never myself killed, or have seen killed by
others, a tiger exceeding ten feet, I felt that to be no reason for doubting the existence
of tigers of eleven feet in length vouched for by men of equal and in some cases greater experience,
although at the same time I did not approve of a system of measurement which left so much to
conjecture.

There is much to be said on both sides, and, as much yet remains to be investigated, it is
to be hoped that the search after the truth will be carried on in a judicial spirit. I have
hitherto been ranged on the side of the moderate party; still I was bound to respect the opinion
of Sir Joseph Fayrer, who, as not only as a sportsman but as an anatomist, was entitled to
attention; and from my long personal acquaintance I should implicitly accept any statement
made by him. Dr. Jerdon, whom I knew intimately, was not, I may safely assert, a great tiger
shikari, and he based his opinion on evidence and with great caution. Mr. J. Shillingford,
from whom I have received the greatest assistance in my recent investigations, and who has
furnished me with much valuable information, is on the other hand the strenuous assertor of
the existence of the eleven-foot tiger, and with the magnificent skulls before me, which he
has sent down from Purneah, I cannot any longer doubt the size of the Bengal tiger, and that
the animals to which they belonged were eleven feet, measured sportsman fashion--that is round
the curves. The larger of the two skulls measures 15.25 inches taken between two squares, placed
one at each end; a tape taken from the edge of the premaxillaries over the curve of the head
gives 17.37 inches; the width across the zygomatic arches, 10.50.[10] The palatal measurement,
which is the test I proposed for ascertaining the length of the skeleton, is 12.25, which would
give 5 feet 7.37 inches; about 3-3/4 inches larger than the big skeleton in the Museum. This
may seem very small for the body of an animal which is supposed to measure eleven feet, but
I must remind my readers that the bones of the biggest tiger look very small when denuded of
the muscles; and the present difficulty I have to contend with is how to strike the average
rate for the allowance to be added to skeleton for muscles, the chief stumbling block being
the system which has hitherto included the tail in the measurement. It all tigers had been
measured as most other animals (except felines) are--i.e. head and body together, and then
the tail separately--I might have had some more reliable data to go upon; but I hope in time
to get some from such sportsmen as are interested in the subject. I have shown that the tail
is not trustworthy as a proportional part of the total length; but from such calculations as
I have been able to make from the very meagre materials on which I have to base them, I should
allow one 2.50th part of the total length of skeleton for curves and muscles.

[Footnote 10: At Mr. Shillingford's request, I made over this skull to the Calcutta Museum.]

In addition to a careful study of De Blainville's 'Osteographie,' where the bones are figured
in large size to scale, I have made many careful measurements of skulls belonging to myself
and friends, and also of the skulls and skeletons in the Calcutta Museum (for most willing
and valuable assistance in which I am indebted to Mr. J. Cockburn, who, in order to test my
calculations, went twice over the ground); and I have adopted the following formula as a tentative
measure. I quite expect to be criticised, but if the crude idea can be improved on by others
I shall be glad.

I now give a tabular statement of four out of many calculations made, but I must state that
in fixing an arbitrary standard of 36 inches for tail, I have understated the mark, for the
tails of most tigers exceed that by an inch or two, though, on the other hand, some are less.

Formula.--Measure from the tip of the premaxillaries or outer insertion of the front teeth
(incisors) along the palate to the nearest inner edge of the foramen magnum. Multiply the result
by 5.50. This will give the length of the skeleton, excluding the tail. Divide this result
by 2.50, and add the quotient to the length for the proportionate amount of muscles and gain
in curves. Add 36 inches for tail.

----------------------------------------------------------------
                   | Palatal  | Add one  |       |
                   | measure- | 2.50th   |       |
                   | ment     | part of  |       |
                   | multi-   | last for |       |
                   | plied    | curves   |       |
                   | by       | and      |       |     Total.
                   | 5.50.    | muscles. | Tail. | inches  ft. in.
-------------------+----------+----------+-------+--------------
Mr. Shillingford's |  67.37   |  26.94   | 36.00 | 130.31  10 10
tiger              |          |          |       |
                   |          |          |       |
Big tiger in       |  63.52   |  25.40   | 36.00 | 124.92  10  4-3/4
museum             |          |          |       |
                   |          |          |       |
Maharajah of Cooch |  66.00   |  26.40   | 36.00 | 128.40  10  8.4
Behar's tiger      |          |          |       |
                   |          |          |       |
A medium-sized one |  55.75   |  23.10   | 36.00 | 116.85   9  8-3/4
of my own          |          |          |       |
----------------------------------------------------------------
Remarks: Mr. Shillingford's tiger's tail was over 3 ft. 2 in., which
would make it 11 ft. The Maharajah writes to me that his measured
on the ground 9 ft. 11 in. See further on.
----------------------------------------------------------------

It will be seen that my calculation is considerably out in the Cooch Behar tiger, so I asked
the Maharajah to tell me, from the appearance of the skull, whether the animal was young or
old. He sent it over to me, and I have no hesitation in saying that it was that of a young
tiger, who, in another year, might have put on the extra nine inches; the parietal sutures,
which in the old tiger (as in Mr. Shillingford's specimens) are completely obliterated, are
in this one almost open. It must be remembered that the bones of the skull do not grow in the
same ratio to the others, and that they attain their full size before those of the rest of
the body. Therefore it is only in the case of the adult that accurate results can be calculated
upon. Probably I have not done wisely in selecting a portion of the skull as a standard--a
bone of the body, such as a femur or humerus might be more reliable--but I was driven to it
by circumstances. Sportsmen, as a rule, do not keep anything but the skull, and for general
purposes it would have been of no use my giving as a test what no one could get hold of except
in a museum.

I have always understood that the tiger of the plains grew to a greater size, that is in length,
than the tiger of hilly country. I have never shot a tiger in Lower Bengal, therefore I cannot
judge of the form of the beast, whether he be more lanky or not. If an eleven-foot Bengal tiger
be anything like as robust in proportion as our Central Indian ones, I should say he was an
enormous creature, but I believe the Central and Southern tiger to be the heavier one, and
this is borne out by an illustration given by Mr. Shillingford in one of his able letters,
which have called forth so much hostile criticism. He compares one of his largest with the
measurement of a Southern India tiger:--

-------------------------------------------------------- Locality of Tiger.   |     Purneah
|  Southern India Length.              |  11 ft.  0 in.  |  10 ft.  2 in. Girth of Chest. 
|   4 ft.  6 in.  |   6 ft.  1 in. Girth of Head.       |   2 ft. 10 in.  |   3 ft.  5 in.
Tail.                |   3 ft.  4 in.  |   3 ft.  1 in. Round Fore-arm.      |   2 ft.  2 in.
|   2 ft. 10 in. Height.              |   3 ft.  7 in.  |   3 ft.  9 in. Total of ft. and in.
|  27 ft.  5 in.  |  29 ft.  4 in. --------------------------------------------------------

The shorter tiger has an advantage of nearly two feet in all-round measurement.

Sir Joseph Fayrer has also been called in question for his belief in twelve feet tigers, but
what he says is reasonable enough. "The tiger should be measured from the nose along the spine
to the tip of the tail, as he lies dead on the spot where he fell, before the skin is removed.
One that is ten feet by this measurement is large, and the full-grown male does not often exceed
this, though no doubt larger individuals (males) are occasionally seen, and I have been informed
by Indian sportsmen of reliability that they have seen and killed tigers over twelve feet in
length." ('Royal Tiger of Bengal,' p. 29).

Sir Joseph Fayrer in a letter to Nature, June 27, 1878, brings forward the following evidence
of large tigers shot by sportsmen whose names are well known in India.

Lieutenant-Colonel Boileau killed a tiger at Muteara in Oude, in 1861, over 12 feet; the skin
when removed measured 13 feet 5 inches.

Sir George Yule has heard once of a 12-foot tiger fairly measured, but 11 feet odd inches is
the largest he has killed, and that twice or thrice.

Colonel Ramsay (Commissioner) killed in Kumaon a tiger measuring 12 feet.

Sir Joseph Fayrer has seen and killed tigers over 10 feet, and one in Purneah 10 feet 8 inches,
in 1869.

Colonel J. Sleeman does not remember having killed a tiger over 10 feet 6 inches in the skin.

Colonel J. MacDonald has killed one 10 feet 4 inches.

The Honourable R. Drummond, C.S., killed a tiger 11 feet 9 inches, measured before being skinned.

Colonel Shakespeare killed one 11 feet 8 inches.

However, conceding that all this proves that tigers do reach occasionally to eleven and even
twelve feet, it does not take away from the fact that the average length is between nine and
ten feet, and anything up to eleven feet is rare, and up to twelve feet still more so.[11]

[Footnote 11: Since writing the above I have to thank "Meade Shell" for the measurements of
the skull of a tiger 11 ft. 6 in. The palatal measurement is 12 inches, which, according to
my formula, would give only 10 ft. 8 in.; but it must be remembered that I have allowed only
3 ft. for the tail, whereas such a tiger would probably have been from 3-1/2 to 4 ft., which
would quite bring it up to the length vouched for. The tail of a skeleton of a much smaller
tiger in the museum measures 3 ft. 3-1/2 in., which with skin and hair would certainly have
been 3-1/2 ft. Until sportsmen begin to measure bodies and tails separately it will, I fear,
be a difficult matter to fix on any correct formula.--R. A. S. See Appendix C.]

VARIETIES OF THE TIGER.--It is universally acknowledged that there is but one species of tiger.
There are, however, several marked varieties. The distinction between the Central Asian and
the Indian tiger is unmistakable. The coat of the Indian animal is of smooth, short hair; that
of the Northern one of a deep furry pelage, of a much richer appearance.

There is an idea which is also to be found stated as a fact in some works on natural history,
that the Northern tiger is of a pale colour with few stripes, which arises from Swinhoe having
so described some specimens from Northern China; but I have not found this to be confirmed
in those skins from Central Asia which I have seen. Shortly before leaving London, in 1878,
Mr. Charles Reuss, furrier, in Bond Street, showed me a beautiful skin with deep soft hair,
abundantly striped on a rich burnt sienna ground, admirably relieved by the pure white of the
lower parts. That light-coloured specimens are found is true, but I doubt whether they are
more common than the others. Of the varieties in India it is more difficult to speak. Most
sportsmen recognise two (some three)--the stout thick-set tiger of hilly country, and the long-bodied
lankier one of the grass jungles in the plains. Such a division is in consonance with the ordinary
laws of nature, which we also see carried out in the thick-set muscular forms of the human
species in mountain tracts.

Some writers, however, go further, and attempt subdivisions more or less doubtful. I knew the
late Captain J. Forsyth most intimately for years. We were in the same house for some time.
I took an interest in his writings, and helped to illustrate his last work, and I can bear
testimony to the general accuracy of his observations and the value of his book on the Highlands
of Central India; but in some things he formed erroneous ideas, and his three divisions, based
on the habits of the tiger, is, I think, open to objection, as tending to create an idea of
at least two distinct varieties.

Native shikaris, he says, recognise two kinds--the Lodhia Bagh and the Oontia Bagh (which last
I may remind my readers is one of the names of the lion). The former is the game-killing tiger,
retired in his habits, living chiefly among the hills, retreating readily from man. "He is
a light-made beast, very active and enduring, and from this, as well as his shyness, generally
difficult to bring to bag."

I grant his shyness and comparative harmlessness (I once met one almost face to face)--and
the nature of the ground he inhabits increases the difficulty in securing him--but I do not
think he physically differs from his brother in the cattle districts. Mr. Sanderson says one
of the largest tigers he had killed was a pure game-killer.

"The cattle-lifter again," says Forsyth, "is usually an older and heavier animal (called Oontia
Bagh, from his faintly striped coat, resembling the colour of a camel), very fleshy and indisposed
to severe exertion."

His third division is the man-eater. However, this is merely a classification on the habits
of the same animal. I think most Central India sportsmen will agree with me when I say that
many a young tiger is a cattle-eater, with a rich coloured hide, although it often happens
that an old tiger of the first division, when he finds his powers for game failing by reason
of age or increased bulk, transfers himself from the borders of the forest to the vicinity
of grazing lands and villages, and he ultimately may come into the third division by becoming
a man-eater. So that the Lodhia becomes the Oontia (for very old tigers become lighter in colour),
and may end by being an Adam-khor, or man-eater. Tigers roam a great deal at times, and if
in their wanderings they come to a suitable locality with convenience of food and water, they
abide there, provided there be no occupant with a prior claim and sufficient power to dispute
the intrusion. We had ample proof of this at Seonee. Close to the station, that is, within
a short ride, were several groups of hills which commanded the pasture lands of the town. Many
a tiger has been killed there, the place of the slain one being occupied ere long by another.
On the other hand, if a tiger be accommodated with lodgings to his liking, he will stay there
for years, roaming a certain radius, but returning to his home; and it is the knowledge of
this that so often enables the hunter to compass his destruction. As long therefore as there
are human habitations, with their usual adjuncts of herds and flocks, within a dozen miles
of the jungle tiger's haunts, so long there will always be the transition from the game-killer
to the cattle-lifter and the man-eater. Colour and striping must also be thrown out of the
question, for no two individuals of any variety agree, and the characteristics of shade and
marking are common to all kinds. The only reliable data therefore are derived from measurements,
and from these it may be proved that the grass-jungle tiger of Bengal, though the longer animal,
is yet inferior in all round measurement and probably in weight to the tiger of hilly country--see
Mr. Shillingford's comparison quoted by me above. Let also any one compare the following measurements
of one given by Colonel Walter Campbell with a tiger of equal length shot in the grassy plains
of Bengal:--

                                                   ft. in.
Length from point of nose to end of tail . . . . .  9   5
Ditto of tail  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2  10
Height from heel to shoulder . . . . . . . . . . .  3   2
Extreme length from shoulder to point of toe . . .  3  11
From elbow to point of toe . . . . . . . . . . . .  2   0
Girth of body just behind the shoulder . . . . . .  5   3
Ditto of forearm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2   7
Ditto of neck  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3   0
Circumference of head  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3   3

This is a remarkably short-tailed tiger. If the concurrence of evidence establishes the difference
beyond doubt, then we may say that there are two varieties in India--the hill tiger, Felis
tigris, var. montanus; and the other, inhabiting the alluvial plains of great rivers, Felis
tigris, var. fluviatilis. Dr. Anderson says he has examined skulls and skins of those inhabiting
the hill ranges of Yunnan, and can detect no difference from the ordinary Indian species.

The tigress goes with young for about fifteen weeks, and produces from two to five at a birth.
I remember once seeing four perfectly formed cubs, which would have been born in a day or two,
cut from a tigress shot by my brother-in-law Col. W. B. Thomson in the hills adjoining the
station of Seonee. I had got off an elephant, and, running up the glen on hearing the shots,
came unpleasantly close to her in her dying throes. When about to bring forth, the tigress
avoids the male, and hides her young from him. The native shikaris say that the tiger kills
the young ones if he finds them. The mother is a most affectionate parent as a rule, and sometimes
exhibits strange fits of jealousy at interference with her young. I heard an instance of this
some years ago from my brother, Mr. H. B. Sterndale, who, as one of the Municipal Commissioners
of Delhi, took a great interest in the collection of animals in the Queen's Gardens there.
Both tiger and leopard cubs had been born in the gardens, and the mother of the latter shewed
no uneasiness at her offspring being handled by strangers as they crept through the bars and
strayed about; but one day, a tiger cub having done the same, the tigress exhibited great restlessness,
and, on the little one's return, in a sudden accession of jealous fury she dashed her paw on
it and killed it. I am indebted to Mr. Shillingford for a long list of tigresses with cubs
killed during the years 1866 to 1880. Out of 53 cubs (18 mothers) 29 were males and 22 females,
the sex of two cubs not being given. This tends to prove that there are an equal number of
each sex born--in fact here the advantage is on the side of the males. I have heard it asserted
that tigresses are more common, and native shikaris account for it by saying that the male
tiger kills the cubs of his own sex; but I have not seen anything to justify this assertion,
or the fact of there being a preponderance of females. Mr. Sanderson, however, writes: "Male
and female cubs appear to be in about equal proportions. How it is that amongst mature animals
tigresses predominate so markedly I am unable to say."

Tigresses have young at all seasons of the year, and they breed apparently only once in three
years, which is about the time the cubs remain with their mother.

For the following interesting memorandum I have to thank Mr. Shillingford:--

