The prevalence of a severe drought had resulted in drying up many of the streams within the
enemy's lines, and, in consequence, he was obliged to shift his camps often, and send his beef-cattle
and mules near his outposts for water.  My scouts kept me well posted in regard to the movements
of both camps and herds; and a favorable opportunity presenting itself, I sent an expedition
on August 14 to gather in some animals located on Twenty-Mile Creek, a stream always supplied
with water from a source of never-failing, springs.  Our side met with complete success in
this instance, and when the expedition returned, we were all made happy by an abundance of
fresh beef, and by some two hundred captured mules, that we thus added to our trains at a time
when draft animals were much needed.

Rations for the men were now supplied in fair quantities, and the only thing required to make
us wholly contented was plenty of grain for our animals.  Because of the large number of troops
then in West Tennessee and about Corinth, the indifferent railroad leading down from Columbus,
Ky., was taxed to its utmost capacity to transport supplies.  The quantity of grain received
at Corinth from the north was therefore limited, and before reaching the different outposts,
by passing through intermediate depots of supply, it had dwindled to insignificance.  I had
hopes, however, that this condition of things might be ameliorated before long by gathering
a good supply of corn that was ripening in the neighborhood, and would soon, I thought, be
sufficiently hard to feed to my animals.  Not far from my headquarters there was a particularly
fine field, which, with this end in view, I had carefully protected through the milky stage,
to the evident disappointment of both Asboth's men and mine.  They bore the prohibition well
while it affected only themselves, but the trial was too great when it came to denying their
horses; and men whose discipline kept faith with my guards during the roasting-ear period now
fell from grace.  Their horses were growing thin, and few could withstand the mute appeals
of their suffering pets; so at night the corn, because of individual foraging, kept stealthily
and steadily vanishing, until the field was soon fringed with only earless stalks. The disappearance
was noticed, and the guard increased, but still the quantity of corn continued to grow less,
the more honest troopers bemoaning the loss, and questioning the honor of those to whose safekeeping
it had been entrusted.  Finally, doubtless under the apprehension that through their irregularities
the corn would all disappear and find its way to the horses in accordance with the stealthy
enterprise of their owners, a general raid was made on the field in broad daylight, and though
the guard drove off the marauders, I must admit that its efforts to keep them back were so
unsuccessful that my hopes for an equal distribution of the crop were quickly blasted.  One
look at the field told that it had been swept clean of its grain.  Of course a great row occurred
as to who was to blame, and many arrests and trials took place, but there had been such an
interchanging of cap numbers and other insignia that it was next to impossible to identify
the guilty, and so much crimination and acrimony grew out of the affair that it was deemed
best to drop the whole matter.

On August 27 about half of the command was absent reconnoitring, I having sent it south toward
Tupelo, in the hope of obtaining some definite information regarding a movement to Holly Springs
of the remainder of the Confederate army, under General Price, when about mid-day I was suddenly
aroused by excited cries and sounds of firing, and I saw in a moment that the enemy was in
my camp.  He had come in on my right flank from the direction of the Hatchie River, pell-mell
with our picket-post stationed about three miles out on the Ripley road.  The whole force of
the enemy comprised about eight hundred, but only his advance entered with my pickets, whom
he had charged and badly stampeded, without, on their part, the pretense of a fight in behalf
of those whom it was their duty to protect until proper dispositions for defense could be made.
The day was excessively hot, one of those sultry debilitating days that had caused the suspending
of all military exercises; and as most of the men were lounging or sleeping in their tents,
we were literally caught napping.  The alarm spread instantly through the camp, and in a moment
the command turned out for action, somewhat in deshabille it is true, but none the less effective,
for every man had grabbed his rifle and cartridge-box at the first alarm.  Aided by a few shots
from Captain Henry Hescock's battery, we soon drove the intruders from our camp in about the
same disorder in which they had broken in on us.  By this time Colonel Hatch and Colonel Albert
L. Lee had mounted two battalions each, and I moved them out at a lively pace in pursuit, followed
by a section of the battery.  No halt was called till we came upon the enemy's main body, under
Colonel Faulkner, drawn up in line of battle near Newland's store.  Opening on him with the
two pieces of artillery, I hurriedly formed line confronting him, and quickly and with but
little resistance drove him in confusion from the field.  The sudden turning of the tables
dismayed Faulkner's men, and panic seizing them, they threw away every loose article of arms
or clothing of which they could dismember themselves, and ran in the wildest disorder in a
mad effort to escape.  As the chase went on the panic increased, the clouds of dust from the
road causing an intermingling of friend and foe.  In a little while the affair grew most ludicrous,
Faulkner's hatless and coatless men taking to the woods in such dispersed order and so demoralized
that a good many prisoners were secured, and those of the enemy who escaped were hunted until
dark. When the recall was sounded, our men came in loaded down with plunder in the shape of
hats, haversacks, blankets, pistols, and shotguns, in a quantity which amply repaid for the
surprise of the morning, but did not excuse the delinquent commander of our picket-guard, who
a few days later was brought to a realizing sense of his duty by a court-martial.

Shortly after this affair Captain Archibald P. Campbell, of the Second Michigan Cavalry, presented
me with the black horse called Rienzi, since made historical from having been ridden by me
in many battles, conspicuously in the ride from Winchester to Cedar Creek, which has been celebrated
in the poem by T. Buchanan Read.  This horse was of Morgan stock, and then about three years
old.  He was jet black, excepting three white feet, sixteen hands high, and strongly built,
with great powers of endurance.  He was so active that he could cover with ease five miles
an hour at his natural walking gait.  The gelding had been ridden very seldom; in fact, Campbell
had been unaccustomed to riding till the war broke out, and, I think, felt some disinclination
to mount the fiery colt.  Campbell had an affection for him, however, that never waned, and
would often come to my headquarters to see his favorite, the colt being cared for there by
the regimental farrier, an old man named John Ashley, who had taken him in charge when leaving
Michigan, and had been his groom ever since.  Seeing that I liked the horse--I had ridden him
on several occasions--Campbell presented him to me on one of these visits, and from that time
till the close of the war I rode him almost continuously, in every campaign and battle in which
I took part, without once finding him overcome by fatigue, though on many occasions his strength
was severely tested by long marches and short rations.  I never observed in him any vicious
habit; a nervousness and restlessness and switch of the tail, when everything about him was
in repose, being the only indication that he might be untrustworthy.  No one but a novice could
be deceived by this, however, for the intelligence evinced in every feature, and his thoroughbred
appearance, were so striking that any person accustomed to horses could not misunderstand such
a noble animal.  But Campbell thought otherwise, at least when the horse was to a certain degree
yet untrained, and could not be pursuaded to ride him; indeed, for more than a year after he
was given to me, Campbell still retained suspicions of his viciousness, though, along with
this mistrust, an undiminished affection.  Although he was several times wounded, this horse
escaped death in action; and living to a ripe old age, died in 1878, attended to the last with
all the care and surrounded with every comfort due the faithful service he had rendered.

In moving from Corinth east toward Chattanooga, General Buell's army was much delayed by the
requirement that he should repair the Memphis and Charleston railroad as he progressed.  The
work of repair obliged him to march very slowly, and was of but little use when done, for guerrillas
and other bands of Confederates destroyed the road again as soon as he had passed on.  But
worst of all, the time thus consumed gave General Bragg the opportunity to reorganize and increase
his army to such an extent that he was able to contest the possession of Middle Tennessee and
Kentucky.  Consequently, the movement of this army through Tennessee and Kentucky toward the
Ohio River--its objective points being Louisville and Cincinnati--was now well defined, and
had already rendered abortive General Buell's designs on Chattanooga and East Tennessee.  Therefore
extraordinary efforts on the part of the Government became necessary, and the concentration
of National troops at Louisville and Cincinnati to meet the contingency of Bragg's reaching
those points was an obvious requirement.  These troops were drawn from all sections in the
West where it was thought they could be spared, and among others I was ordered to conduct thither--to
Louisville or Cincinnati, as subsequent developments might demand--my regiment, Hescock's battery,
the Second and Fifteenth Missouri, and the Thirty-sixth and Forty-fourth Illinois regiments
of infantry, known as the "Pea Ridge Brigade." With this column I marched back to Corinth on
the 6th of September, 1862, for the purpose of getting railroad transportation to Columbus,
Kentucky.

At Corinth I met General Grant, who by this time had been reestablished in favor and command
somewhat, General Halleck having departed for Washington to assume command of the army as General-in-Chief.
Before and during the activity which followed his reinstatement, General Grant had become familiar
with my services through the transmission to Washington of information I had furnished concerning
the enemy's movements, and by reading reports of my fights and skirmishes in front, and he
was loth to let me go.  Indeed, he expressed surprise at seeing me in Corinth, and said he
had not expected me to go; he also plainly showed that he was much hurt at the inconsiderate
way in which his command was being depleted.  Since I was of the opinion that the chief field
of usefulness and opportunity was opening up in Kentucky, I did not wish him to retain me,
which he might have done, and I impressed him with my conviction, somewhat emphatically, I
fear.  Our conversation ended with my wish gratified.  I afterward learned that General Granger,
whom General Grant did not fancy, had suggested that I should take to Cincinnati the main portion
of Granger's command--the Pea Ridge Brigade--as well as the Second Michigan Cavalry, of which
I was still colonel. We started that night, going by rail over the Mobile and Ohio road to
Columbus, Ky., where we embarked on steamboats awaiting us.  These boats were five in number,
and making one of them my flag-ship, expecting that we might come upon certain batteries reported
to be located upon the Kentucky shore of the Ohio, I directed the rest to follow my lead. 
Just before reaching Caseyville, the captain of a tin-clad gunboat that was patrolling the
river brought me the information that the enemy was in strong force at Caseyville, and expressed
a fear that my fleet could not pass his batteries. Accepting the information as correct, I
concluded to capture the place before trying to pass up the river.  Pushing in to the bank
as we neared the town, I got the troops ashore and moved on Caseyville, in the expectation
of a bloody fight, but was agreeably surprised upon reaching the outskirts of the village by
an outpouring of its inhabitants--men, women, and children--carrying the Stars and Stripes,
and making the most loyal professions.  Similar demonstrations of loyalty had been made to
the panic-stricken captain of the gunboat when he passed down the river, but he did not stay
to ascertain their character, neither by landing nor by inquiry, for he assumed that on the
Kentucky bank of the river there could be no loyalty.  The result mortified the captain intensely;
and deeming his convoy of little further use, he steamed toward Cairo in quest of other imaginary
batteries, while I re-embarked at Caseyville, and continued up the Ohio undisturbed.  About
three miles below Cincinnati I received instructions to halt, and next day I was ordered by
Major-General H. G. Wright to take my troops back to Louisville, and there assume command of
the Pea Ridge Brigade, composed of the Second and Fifteenth Missouri, Thirty-sixth and Forty-fourth
Illinois infantry, and of such other regiments as might be sent me in advance of the arrival
of General Buell's army. When I reached Louisville I reported to Major-General William Nelson,
who was sick, and who received me as he lay in bed.  He asked me why I did not wear the shoulder-straps
of my rank.  I answered that I was the colonel of the Second Michigan cavalry, and had on my
appropriate shoulder-straps.  He replied that I was a brigadier-general for the Booneville
fight, July 1, and that I should wear the shoulder-straps of that grade.  I returned to my
command and put it in camp; and as I had no reluctance to wearing the shoulder-straps of a
brigadier-general, I was not long in procuring a pair, particularly as I was fortified next
day by receiving from Washington official information of my appointment as a brigadier-general,
to date from July 1, 1862, the day of the battle of Booneville.

CHAPTER XI.

GOOD ADVICE FROM GENERAL NELSON--HIS TRAGIC DEATH--PUTTING LOUISVILLE IN A STATE OF DEFENSE--ASSIGNED
TO THE COMMAND OF THE ELEVENTH DIVISION--CAPTURE OF CHAPLIN HEIGHTS--BATTLE OF PERRYVILLE--REPORTED
AMONG THE KILLED--A THRILLING INCIDENT--GENERAL BUELL RELIEVED BY GENERAL ROSECRANS.

I reported to Major-General Nelson at the Galt House in Louisville, September 14, 1862, who
greeted me in the bluff and hearty fashion of a sailor--for he had been in the navy till the
breaking out of the war.  The new responsibilities that were now to fall upon me by virtue
of increased rank caused in my mind an uneasiness which, I think, Nelson observed at the interview,
and he allayed it by giving me much good advice, and most valuable information in regard to
affairs in Kentucky, telling me also that he intended I should retain in my command the Pea
Ridge Brigade and Hescock's battery.  This latter assurance relieved me greatly, for I feared
the loss of these troops in the general redistribution which I knew must soon take place; and
being familiar with their valuable service in Missouri, and having brought them up from Mississippi,
I hoped they would continue with me.  He directed me to take position just below the city with
the Pea Ridge Brigade, Hescock's battery, and the Second Michigan Cavalry, informing me, at
the same time, that some of the new regiments, then arriving under a recent call of the President
for volunteers, would also be assigned to my command.  Shortly after the interview eight new
regiments and an additional battery joined me, thus making good his promise of more troops.

A few days later came Nelson's tragic end, shocking the whole country.  Those of us in camp
outside of the city were startled on the morning of September 29 by the news that General Jefferson
C. Davis, of the Union Army, had shot General Nelson at the Galt House, and the wildest rumors
in regard to the occurrence came thick and fast; one to the effect that Nelson was dead, another
having it that he was living and had killed Davis, and still others reflecting on the loyalty
of both, it being supposed by the general public at first that the difficulty between the two
men had grown out of some political rather than official or personal differences.  When the
news came, I rode into the city to the Galt House to learn the particulars, reaching there
about 10 o'clock in the forenoon.  Here I learned that Nelson had been shot by Davis about
two hours before, at the foot of the main stairway leading from the corridor just beyond the
office to the second floor, and that Nelson was already dead.  It was almost as difficult to
get reliable particulars of the matter at the hotel as it had been in my camp, but I gathered
that the two men had met first at an early hour near the counter of the hotel office, and that
an altercation which had begun several days before in relation to something official was renewed
by Davis, who, attempting to speak to Nelson in regard to the subject-matter of their previous
dispute, was met by an insulting refusal to listen.  It now appears that when Nelson made this
offensive remark, Davis threw a small paper ball that he was nervously rolling between his
fingers into Nelson's face, and that this insult was returned by Nelson slapping Davis (Killed
by a Brother Soldier.--Gen. J. B. Fry.) in the face. But at the time, exactly what had taken
place just before the shooting was shrouded in mystery by a hundred conflicting stories, the
principal and most credited of which was that Davis had demanded from Nelson an apology for
language used in the original altercation, and that Nelson's refusal was accompanied by a slap
in the face, at the same moment denouncing Davis as a coward.  However this may be, Nelson,
after slapping Davis, moved toward the corridor, from which a stairway led to the second floor,
and just as he was about to ascend, Davis fired with a pistol that he had obtained from some
one near by after the blow had been struck.  The ball entered Nelson's breast just above the
heart, but his great strength enabled him to ascend the stairway notwithstanding the mortal
character of the wound, and he did not fall till he reached the corridor on the second floor.
He died about half an hour later.  The tragedy cast a deep gloom over all who knew the men,
for they both had many warm personal friends; and affairs at Louisville had hardly recovered
as yet from the confused and discouraging condition which preceded the arrival of General Buell's
army.  General Buell reported the killing of Nelson to the authorities at Washington, and recommended
the trial of Davis by court-martial, but no proceedings were ever instituted against him in
either a civil or military court, so to this day it has not been determined judicially who
was the aggressor.  Some months later Davis was assigned to the command of a division in Buell's
army after that officer had been relieved from its command.

Two Confederate armies, under General Kirby Smith and General Braxton Bragg, had penetrated
into Kentucky, the one under Smith by the way of Cumberland Gap, the other and main army under
Bragg by way of the Sequatche Valley, Glasgow, and Mumfordsville.  Glasgow was captured by
the enemy on the 17th of September, and as the expectation was that Buell would reach the place
in time to save the town, its loss created considerable alarm in the North, for fears were
now entertained that Bragg would strike Louisville and capture the city before Buell could
arrive on the ground.  It became necessary therefore to put Louisville in a state of defense,
and after the cordon of principal works had been indicated, my troops threw up in one night
a heavy line of rifle-pits south of the city, from the Bardstown pike to the river.  The apprehended
attack by Bragg never came, however, for in the race that was then going on between him and
Buell on parallel roads, the Army of the Ohio outmarched the Confederates, its advance arriving
at Louisville September 25.

General Buell immediately set about reorganizing the whole force, and on September 29 issued
an order designating the troops under my command as the Eleventh Division, Army of the Ohio,
and assigning Brigadier-General J. T. Boyle to command the division, and me to command one
of its brigades.  To this I could not object, of course, for I was a brigadier-general of very
recent date, and could hardly expect more than a brigade.  I had learned, however, that at
least one officer to whom a high command had been given--a corps--had not yet been appointed
a general officer by the President, and I considered it somewhat unfair that I should be relegated
to a brigade, while men who held no commissions at all were being made chiefs of corps and
divisions; so I sought an interview with General Buell's chief-of-staff, Colonel Fry, and,
while not questioning Buell's good intentions nor his pure motives, insisted that my rights
in the matter should be recognized.  That same evening I was assigned to the command of the
Eleventh Division, and began preparing it at once for a forward movement, which I knew must
soon take place in the resumption of offensive operations by the Army of the Ohio.

During the interval from September 25 till October 1 there was among the officers much criticism
of General Buell's management of the recent campaign, which had resulted in his retirement
to Louisville; and he was particularly censured by many for not offering battle to General
Bragg while the two armies were marching parallel to each other, and so near that an engagement
could have been brought on at any one of several points--notably so at Glasgow, Kentucky, if
there had been a desire to join issue.  It was asserted, and by many conceded, that General
Buell had a sufficient force to risk a fight. He was much blamed for the loss of Mumfordsville
also.  The capture of this point, with its garrison, gave Bragg an advantage in the race toward
the Ohio River, which odds would most likely have ensured the fall of Louisville had they been
used with the same energy and skill that the Confederate commander displayed from Chattanooga
to Glasgow; but something always diverted General Bragg at the supreme moment, and he failed
to utilize the chances falling to him at this time, for, deflecting his march to the north
toward Bardstown, he left open to Buell the direct road to Louisville by way of Elizabethtown.

At Bardstown Bragg's army was halted while he endeavored to establish a Confederate government
in Kentucky by arranging for the installation of a provisional governor at Lexington.  Bragg
had been assured that the presence of a Confederate army in Kentucky would so encourage the
secession element that the whole State could be forced into the rebellion and his army thereby
largely increased; but he had been considerably misled, for he now found that though much latent
sympathy existed for his cause, yet as far as giving active aid was concerned, the enthusiasm
exhibited by the secessionists of Kentucky in the first year of the war was now replaced by
apathy, or at best by lukewarmness.  So the time thus spent in political machinations was wholly
lost to Bragg; and so little reinforcement was added to his army that it may be said that the
recruits gained were not enough to supply the deficiencies resulting from the recent toilsome
marches of the campaign.

In the meanwhile Buell had arrived at Louisville, system had been substituted for the chaos
which had previously obtained there, and orders were issued for an advance upon the enemy with
the purpose of attacking and the hope of destroying him within the limits of the "blue grass"
region, and, failing in that, to drive him from Kentucky.  The army moved October 1, 1862,
and my division, now a part of the Third Corps, commanded by General C. C. Gilbert, marched
directly on Bardstown, where it was thought the enemy would make a stand, but Bragg's troops
retreated toward Perryville, only resisting sufficiently to enable the forces of General Kirby
Smith to be drawn in closer--they having begun a concentration at Frankfort--so they could
be used in a combined attack on Louisville as soon as the Confederate commander's political
projects were perfected.

Much time was consumed by Buell's army in its march on Perryville, but we finally neared it
on the evening of October 7.  During the day, Brigadier-General Robert B. Mitchell's division
of Gilbert's corps was in the advance on the Springfield pike, but as the enemy developed that
he was in strong force on the opposite side of a small stream called Doctor's Creek, a tributary
of Chaplin River, my division was brought up and passed to the front.  It was very difficult
to obtain water in this section of Kentucky, as a drought had prevailed for many weeks, and
the troops were suffering so for water that it became absolutely necessary that we should gain
possession of Doctor's Creek in order to relieve their distress. Consequently General Gilbert,
during the night, directed me to push beyond Doctor's Creek early the next morning.  At daylight
on the 8th I moved out Colonel Dan McCook's brigade and Barnett's battery for the purpose,
but after we had crossed the creek with some slight skirmishing, I found that we could not
hold the ground unless we carried and occupied a range of hills, called Chaplin Heights, in
front of Chaplin River.  As this would project my command in the direction of Perryville considerably
beyond the troops that were on either flank, I brought up Laiboldt's brigade and Hescock's
battery to strengthen Colonel McCook.  Putting both brigades into line we quickly carried the
Heights, much to the surprise of the enemy, I think, for he did not hold on to the valuable
ground as strongly as he should have done.  This success not only ensured us a good supply
of water, but also, later in the day, had an important bearing in the battle of Perryville.
After taking the Heights, I brought up the rest of my division and intrenched, without much
difficulty, by throwing up a strong line of rifle-pits, although the enemy's sharpshooters
annoyed us enough to make me order Laiboldt's brigade to drive them in on the main body.  This
was successfully done in a few minutes, but in pushing them back to Chaplin River, we discovered
the Confederates forming a line of battle on the opposite bank, with the apparent purpose of
an attack in force, so I withdrew the brigade to our intrenchments on the crest and there awaited
the assault.

While this skirmishing was going on, General Gilbert--the corps commander--whose headquarters
were located on a hill about a mile distant to the rear, kept sending me messages by signal
not to bring on an engagement.  I replied to each message that I was not bringing on an engagement,
but that the enemy evidently intended to do so, and that I believed I should shortly be attacked.
Soon after returning to the crest and getting snugly fixed in the rifle-pits, my attention
was called to our left, the high ground we occupied affording me in that direction an unobstructed
view.  I then saw General A. McD. McCook's corps--the First-advancing toward Chaplin River
by the Mackville road, apparently unconscious that the Confederates were present in force behind
the stream.  I tried by the use of signal flags to get information of the situation to these
troops, but my efforts failed, and the leading regiments seemed to approach the river indifferently
prepared to meet the sudden attack that speedily followed, delivered as it was from the chosen
position of the enemy. The fury of the Confederate assault soon halted this advance force,
and in a short time threw it into confusion, pushed it back a considerable distance, and ultimately
inflicted upon it such loss of men and guns as to seriously cripple McCook's corps, and prevent
for the whole day further offensive movement on his part, though he stoutly resisted the enemy's
assaults until 4 o'clock in the afternoon.

Seeing McCook so fiercely attacked, in order to aid him I advanced Hescock's battery, supported
by six regiments, to a very good position in front of a belt of timber on my extreme left,
where an enfilading fire could be opened on that portion of the enemy attacking the right of
the First Corps, and also on his batteries across Chaplin River.  But at this juncture he placed
two batteries on my right and began to mass troops behind them, and General Gilbert, fearing
that my intrenched position on the heights might be carried, directed me to withdraw Hescock
and his supports and return them to the pits.  My recall was opportune, for I had no sooner
got back to my original line than the Confederates attacked me furiously, advancing almost
to my intrenchments, notwithstanding that a large part of the ground over which they had to
move was swept by a heavy fire of canister from both my batteries.  Before they had quite reached
us, however, our telling fire made them recoil, and as they fell back, I directed an advance
of my whole division, bringing up my reserve regiments to occupy the crest of the hills; Colonel
William P. Carlin's brigade of Mitchell's division meanwhile moving forward on my right to
cover that flank.  This advance pressed the enemy to Perryville, but he retired in such good
order that we gained nothing but some favorable ground that enabled me to establish my batteries
in positions where they could again turn their attention to the Confederates in front of McCook,
whose critical condition was shortly after relieved, however, by a united pressure of Gilbert's
corps against the flank of McCook's assailants, compelling them to retire behind Chaplin River.

The battle virtually ended about 4 o'clock in the afternoon, though more or less desultory
firing continued until dark.  Considering the severity of the engagement on McCook's front,
and the reverses that had befallen him, I question if, from that part of the line, much could
have been done toward retrieving the blunders of the day, but it did seem to me that, had the
commander of the army been able to be present on the field, he could have taken advantage of
Bragg's final repulse, and there would have remained in our hands more than the barren field.
But no attempt was made to do anything more till next morning, and then we secured little except
the enemy's killed and most severely wounded.

