His interview with Carry on this occasion was very sad. He could not save himself from telling
her in part the cause of his inquiries. "They haven't taken the two men, have they?" she asked,
with an eagerness that seemed to imply that she possessed knowledge on the matter which could
hardly not be guilty.

"What two men?" he asked, looking full into her face. Then she was silent and he was unwilling
to catch her in a trap, to cross-examine her as a lawyer would do, or to press out of her any
communication which she would not make willingly and of her own free action. "I am told," he
said, "that two men have been taken for the murder."

"Where did they find 'em, sir?"

"They had escaped to America, and the police have brought them back. Did you know them, Carry?"
She was again silent. The men had not been named, and it was not for her to betray them. Hitherto,
in their interviews, she had hardly ever looked him in the face, but now she turned her blue
eyes full upon him. "You told me before at the old woman's cottage," he said, "that you knew
them both,--had known one too well."

"If you please, sir, I won't say nothing about 'em."

"I will not ask you, Carry. But you would tell me about your brother, if you knew?"

"Indeed I would, sir;--anything. He hadn't no more to do with Farmer Trumbull's murder nor
you had. They can't touch a hair of his head along of that."

"Such is my belief;--but who can prove it?" Again she was silent. "Can you prove it? If speaking
could save your brother, surely you would speak out. Would you hesitate, Carry, in doing anything
for your brother's sake? Whatever may be his faults, he has not been hard to you like the others."

"Oh, sir, I wish I was dead."

"You must not wish that, Carry. And if you know ought of this you will be bound to speak. If
you could bring yourself to tell me what you know, I think it might be good for both of you."

"It was they who had the money. Sam never seed a shilling of it."

"Who is 'they'?"

"Jack Burrows and Larry Acorn. And it wasn't Larry Acorn neither, sir. I know very well who
did it. It was Jack Burrows who did it."

"That is he they call the Grinder?"

"But Larry was with him then," said the girl, sobbing.

"You are sure of that?"

"I ain't sure of nothing, Mr. Fenwick, only that Sam wasn't there at all. Of that I am quite,
quite, quite sure. But when you asks me, what am I to say?"

Then he left her without speaking to her on this occasion a word about herself. He had nothing
to say that would give her any comfort. He had almost made up his mind that he would take her
over with him to the mill, and try what might be done by the meeting between the father, mother,
and daughter, but all this new matter about the police and the arrest, and Sam's absence, made
it almost impossible for him to take such a step at present. As he went, he again interrogated
Mrs. Stiggs, and was warned by her that words fell daily from her lodger which made her think
that the young woman would not remain much longer with her. In the meantime there was nothing
of which she could complain. Carry insisted on her liberty to go out and about the city alone;
but the woman was of opinion that she did this simply with the object of asserting her independence.
After that the necessary payment was made, and the Vicar returned to the Railway Station. Of
Sam he had learned nothing, and now he did not know where to go for tidings. He still believed
that the young man would come of his own accord, if the demand for his appearance were made
so public as to reach his ear.

On that same day there was a meeting of the magistrates at Heytesbury, and the two men who
had been so cruelly fetched back from San Francisco were brought before it. Mr. Gilmore was
on the bench, along with Sir Thomas Charleys, who was the chairman, and three other gentlemen.
Lord Trowbridge was in the court house, and sat upon the bench, but gave it out that he was
not sitting there as a magistrate. Samuel Brattle was called upon to answer to his bail, and
Jones, the attorney appearing for him, explained that he had gone from home to seek work elsewhere,
alluded to the length of time that had elapsed, and to the injustice of presuming that a man
against whom no evidence had been adduced, should be bound to remain always in one parish,--and
expressed himself without any doubt that Mr. Fenwick and Mr. George Brattle, who were his bailsmen,
would cause him to be found and brought forward. As neither the clergyman nor the farmer were
in court, nothing further could be done at once; and the magistrates were quite ready to admit
that time must be allowed. Nor was the case at all ready against the two men who were in custody.
Indeed, against them the evidence was so little substantial that a lawyer from Devizes, who
attended on their behalf, expressed his amazement that the American authorities should have
given them up, and suggested that it must have been done with some view to a settlement of
the Alabama claims. Evidence, however, was brought up to show that the two men had been convicted
before, the one for burglary, and the other for horse-stealing; that the former, John Burrows,
known as the Grinder, was a man from Devizes with whom the police about that town, and at Chippenham,
Bath, and Wells, were well acquainted; that the other, Acorn, was a young man who had been
respectable, as a partner in a livery stable at Birmingham, but who had taken to betting, and
had for a year past been living by evil courses, having previously undergone two years of imprisonment
with hard labour. It was proved that they had been seen in the neighbourhood both before and
after the murder; that boots found in the cottage at Pycroft Common fitted certain footmarks
in the mud of the farmer's yard; that Burrows had been supplied with a certain poison at a
county chemist's at Lavington, and that the dog Bone'm had been poisoned with the like. Many
other matters were proved, all of which were declared by the lawyer from Devizes to amount
to nothing, and by the police authorities, who were prosecutors, to be very much. The magistrates
of course ordered a remand, and ordered also that on the day named Sam Brattle should appear.
It was understood that that day week was only named pro formâ, the constables having explained
that at least a fortnight would be required for the collection of further evidence. This took
place on Tuesday, the 25th of April, and it was understood that time up to the 8th of May would
be given to the police to complete their case.

So far all went on quietly at Heytesbury; but before the magistrates left the little town there
was a row. Sir Thomas Charleys, in speaking to his brother magistrate, Mr. Gilmore, about the
whole affair and about the Brattles in particular, had alluded to "Mr. Fenwick's unfortunate
connexion with Carry Brattle" at Salisbury. Gilmore fired up at once, and demanded to know
the meaning of this. Sir Thomas, who was not the wisest man in the world, but who had ideas
of justice, and as to whom, in giving him his due, it must be owned that he was afraid of no
one, after some hesitation, acknowledged that what he had heard respecting Mr. Fenwick had
fallen from Lord Trowbridge. He had heard from Lord Trowbridge that the Vicar of Bullhampton
was  *  *  *. Gilmore on the occasion became full of energy, and pressed the baronet very hard.
Sir Thomas hoped that Mr. Gilmore was not going to make mischief. Mr. Gilmore declared that
he would not submit to the injury done to his friend, and that he would question Lord Trowbridge
on the subject. He did question Lord Trowbridge, whom he found waiting for his carriage, in
the parlour of the Bull Inn, Sir Thomas having accompanied him in the search. The Marquis was
quite outspoken. He had heard, he said, from what he did not doubt to be good authority, that
Mr. Fenwick was in the habit of visiting alone a young woman who had lived in his parish, but
whom he now maintained in lodgings in a low alley in the suburbs of Salisbury. He had said
so much as that. In so saying, had he spoken truth or falsehood? If he had said anything untrue,
he would be the first to acknowledge his own error.

Then there had come to be very hot words. "My lord," said Mr. Gilmore, "your insinuation is
untrue. Whatever your words may have been, in the impression which they have made, they are
slanderous."

"Who are you, sir," said the Marquis, looking at him from head to foot, "to talk to me of the
impression of my words?"

But Mr. Gilmore's blood was up. "You intended to convey to Sir Thomas Charleys, my lord, that
Mr. Fenwick's visits were of a disgraceful nature. If your words did not convey that, they
conveyed nothing."

"Who are you, sir, that you should interpret my words? I did no more than my duty in conveying
to Sir Thomas Charleys my conviction,--my well-grounded conviction,--as to the gentleman's
conduct. What I said to him I will say aloud to the whole county. It is notorious that the
Vicar of Bullhampton is in the habit of visiting a profligate young woman in a low part of
the city. That I say is disgraceful to him, to his cloth, and to the parish, and I shall give
my opinion to the bishop to that effect. Who are you, sir, that you should question my words?"
And again the Marquis eyed the Squire from head to foot, leaving the room with a majestic strut
as Gilmore went on to assert that the allegation made, with the sense implied by it, contained
a wicked and a malicious slander. Then there were some words, much quieter than those preceding
them, between Mr. Gilmore and Sir Thomas, in which the Squire pledged himself to,--he hardly
knew what, and Sir Thomas promised to hold his tongue,--for the present. But, as a matter of
course, the quarrel flew all over the little town. It was out of the question that such a man
as the Marquis of Trowbridge should keep his wrath confined. Before he had left the inn-yard
he had expressed his opinion very plainly to half-a-dozen persons, both as to the immorality
of the Vicar and the impudence of the Squire; and as he was taken home his hand was itching
for pen and paper in order that he might write to the bishop. Sir Thomas shrugged his shoulders,
and did not tell the story to more than three or four confidential friends, to all of whom
he remarked that on the matter of the visits made to the girl, there never was smoke without
fire. Gilmore's voice, too, had been loud, and all the servants about the inn had heard him.
He knew that the quarrel was already public, and felt that he had no alternative but to tell
his friend what had passed.

On that same evening he saw the Vicar. Fenwick had returned from Salisbury, tired, dispirited,
and ill at ease, and was just going in to dress for dinner, when Gilmore met him at his own
stable-door, and told him what had occurred.

"Then, after all, my wife was right and I was wrong," said Fenwick.

"Right about what?" Gilmore asked.

"She said that Lord Trowbridge would spread these very lies. I confess that I made the mistake
of believing him to be a gentleman. Of course I may use your information?"

"Use it just as you please," said Gilmore. Then they parted, and Gilmore, who was on horseback,
rode home.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

MARY LOWTHER RETURNS TO BULLHAMPTON.

A month went by after the scenes described in the last chapter, and summer had come at Bullhampton.
It was now the end of May, and, with the summer, Mary Lowther had arrived. During the month
very little progress had been made with the case at Heytesbury. There had been two or three
remands, and now there was yet another. The police declared that this was rendered necessary
by the absence of Sam Brattle,--that the magistrates were anxious to give all reasonable time
for the production of the man who was out upon bail,--and that, as he was undoubtedly concerned
in the murder, they were determined to have him. But they who professed to understand the case,
among whom were the lawyer from Devizes and Mr. Jones of Heytesbury, declared that no real
search had been made for Brattle because the evidence in regard to the other men was hitherto
inefficient. The remand now stood again till Tuesday, June the 5th, and it was understood that
if Brattle did not then appear the bail would be declared to have been forfeited.

Fenwick had written a very angry letter to Lord Trowbridge, to which he had got no answer,
and Lord Trowbridge had written a very silly letter to the bishop, in replying to which the
bishop had snubbed him. "I am informed by my friend, Mr. Gilmore," said the Vicar to the Marquis,
"that your lordship has stated openly that I have made visits to a young woman in Salisbury
which are disgraceful to me, to my cloth, and to the parish of which I am the incumbent. I
do not believe that your lordship will deny that you have done so, and I, therefore, call upon
you at once to apologise to me for the calumny, which, in its nature, is as injurious and wicked
as calumny can be, and to promise that you will not repeat the offence." The Marquis, when
he received this, had not as yet written that letter to the bishop on which he had resolved
after his interview with Gilmore,--feeling, perhaps, some qualms of conscience, thinking that
it might be well that he should consult his son,--though with a full conviction that, if he
did so, his son would not allow him to write to the bishop at all,--possibly with some feeling
that he had been too hard upon his enemy, the Vicar. But, when the letter from Bullhampton
reached him, all feelings of doubt, caution, and mercy, were thrown to the winds. The tone
of the letter was essentially aggressive and impudent. It was the word calumny that offended
him most, that, and the idea that he, the Marquis of Trowbridge, should be called upon to promise
not to commit an offence! The pestilent infidel at Bullhampton, as he called our friend, had
not attempted to deny the visits to the young woman at Salisbury. And the Marquis had made
fresh inquiry which had completely corroborated his previous information. He had learned Mrs.
Stiggs's address, and the name of Trotter's Buildings, which details were to his mind circumstantial,
corroborative, and damnatory. Some dim account of the battle at the Three Honest Men had reached
him, and the undoubted fact that Carry Brattle was maintained by the Vicar. Then he remembered
all Fenwick's old anxiety on behalf of the brother, whom the Marquis had taught himself to
regard as the very man who had murdered his tenant. He reminded himself, too, of the murderer's
present escape from justice by aid of this pestilent clergyman; and thus became convinced that
in dealing with Mr. Fenwick, as it was his undoubted duty to do, he had to deal with one of
the very worst of the human race. His lordship's mind was one utterly incapable of sifting
evidence,--unable even to understand evidence when it came to him. He was not a bad man. He
desired nothing that was not his own, and remitted much that was. He feared God, honoured the
Queen, and loved his country. He was not self-indulgent. He did his duties as he knew them.
But he was an arrogant old fool, who could not keep himself from mischief,--who could only
be kept from mischief by the aid of some such master as his son. As soon as he received the
Vicar's letter he at once sat down and wrote to the bishop. He was so sure that he was right,
that he sent Fenwick's letter to the bishop, acknowledging what he himself had said at Heytesbury,
and justifying it altogether by an elaborate account of the Vicar's wickedness. "And now, my
lord, let me ask you," said he, in conclusion, "whether you deem this a proper man to have
the care of souls in the large and important parish of Bullhampton."

The bishop felt himself to be very much bullied. He had no doubt whatsoever about his parson.
He knew that Fenwick was too strong a man to be acted upon beneficially by such advice as to
his private conduct as a bishop might give, and too good a man to need any caution as to his
conduct. "My Lord Marquis," he said, in reply, "in returning the endorsed letter from Mr. Fenwick
to your lordship, I can only say that nothing has been brought before me by your lordship which
seems to me to require my interference. I should be wrong if I did not add to this the expression
of my opinion that Mr. Fenwick is a moral man, doing his duty in his parish well, and an example
in my diocese to be followed, rather than a stumbling block."

When this letter reached the Castle Lord St. George was there. The poor old Marquis was cut
to the quick. He immediately perceived,--so he told himself,--that the bishop was an old woman,
who understood nothing; but he was sure that St. George would not look at the matter in the
same light. And yet it was impossible not to tell St. George. Much as he dreaded his son, he
did honestly tell everything to his Mentor. He had already told St. George of Fenwick's letter
to him and of his letter to the bishop, and St. George had whistled. Now he showed the bishop's
letter to his son. St. George read the letter, refolded it slowly, shrugged his shoulders,
and said, as he returned it to his father,--

"Well, my lord, I suppose you like a hornet's nest."

This was the uncomfortable position of things at Bullhampton about the beginning of June, at
which time Mary Lowther was again staying with her friend Mrs. Fenwick. Carry Brattle was still
at Salisbury, but had not been seen by the Vicar for more than a fortnight. The Marquis's letter,
backed as it was in part by his wife's counsel, had, much to his own disgust, deterred him
from seeing the girl. His wife, however, had herself visited Trotter's Buildings, and had seen
Carry, taking to her a little present from her mother, who did not dare to go over to Salisbury
to see her child, because of words that had passed between her and her husband.

Mrs. Fenwick, on her return home, had reported that Carry was silent, sullen, and idle; that
her only speech was an expression of a wish that she was dead, and that Mrs. Stiggs had said
that she could get no good of her. In the meantime Sam Brattle had not yet turned up, and the
5th of June was at hand.

Mary Lowther was again at the vicarage, and of course it was necessary that she and Mr. Gilmore
should meet each other. A promise had been made to her that no advice should be pressed upon
her,--the meaning of which, of course, was that nothing should be said to her urging her to
marry Mr. Gilmore. But it was of course understood by all the parties concerned that Mr. Gilmore
was to be allowed to come to the house; and, indeed, this was understood by the Fenwicks to
mean almost as plainly that she would at least endeavour to bring herself to accept him when
he did come. To Mary herself, as she made the journey, the same meaning seemed to be almost
inevitable; and as she perceived this, she told herself that she had been wrong to leave home.
She knew,--she thought she knew,--that she must refuse him, and in doing so would simply be
making fresh trouble. Would it not have been better for her to have remained at Loring,--to
have put herself at once on a par with her aunt, and have commenced her life of solitary spinsterhood
and dull routine? But, then, why should she refuse him? She endeavoured to argue it out with
herself in the railway carriage. She had been told that Walter Marrable would certainly marry
Edith Brownlow, and she believed it. No doubt it was much better that he should do so. At any
rate, she and Walter were separated for ever. When he wrote to her, declaring his purpose of
remaining in England, he had said not a word of renewing his engagement with her. No doubt
she loved him. About that she did not for a moment endeavour to deceive herself. No doubt,
if that fate in life which she most desired might be hers, she would become the wife of Walter
Marrable. But that fate would not be hers, and then there arose the question whether, on that
account, she was unfit to be the wife of any other man. Of this she was quite certain, that
should it ever seem to her to be her duty to accept the other man, she would first explain
to him clearly the position in which she found herself. At last the whole matter resolved itself
to this;--was it possible for her to divest her idea of life of all romance, and to look for
contentment and satisfaction in the performance of duties to others? The prospect of an old
maid's life at Loring was not pleasant to her eyes; but she would bear that, and worse than
that, rather than do wrong. It was, however, so hard for her to know what was right and what
was wrong! Supposing that she were to consent to marry Mr. Gilmore, would she be forsworn when
at the altar she promised to love him? All her care would be henceforth for him, all her heart,
as far as she could command her heart, and certainly all her truth. There should not be a secret
of her mind hidden from him. She would force herself to love him, and to forget that other
man. He should be the object of all her idolatry. She would, in that case, do her very utmost
to reward him for the constancy of the affection with which he had regarded her; and yet, as
she was driven in at the vicarage gate, she told herself that it would have been better for
her to remain at Loring.

During the first evening Mr. Gilmore's name was not mentioned. There were subjects enough for
conversation, as the period was one of great excitement in Bullhampton.

"What did you think of our chapel?" asked Mrs. Fenwick.

"I had no idea it was so big."

"Why, they are not going to leave us a single soul to go to church. Mr. Puddleham means to
make a clean sweep of the parish."

"You don't mean to say that any have left you?"

"Well; none as yet," replied Mrs. Fenwick. "But then the chapel isn't finished; and the Marquis
has not yet sent his order to his tenants to become dissenters. We expect that he will do so,
unless he can persuade the bishop to turn Frank out of the living."

"But the bishop couldn't turn him out."

"Of course, he couldn't,--and wouldn't if he could. The bishop and Frank are the best friends
in the world. But that has nothing to do with it. You mustn't abuse the chapel to Frank; just
at this moment the subject is tabooed. My belief is that the whole edifice will have to come
down, and that the confusion of Mr. Puddleham and the Marquis will be something more complete
than ever was yet seen. In the meantime, I put my finger to my lip, and just look at Frank
whenever the chapel is mentioned."

And then there was the matter of the murder, and the somewhat sad consideration of Sam's protracted
absence.

"And will you have to pay four hundred pounds, Mr. Fenwick?" Mary asked.

"I shall be liable to pay it if he does not appear to-morrow, and no doubt must absolutely
pay it if he does not turn up soon."

"But you don't think that he was one of them?"

"I am quite sure he was not. But he has had trouble in his family, and he got into a quarrel,
and I fancy he has left the country. The police say that he has been traced to Liverpool."

"And will the other men be convicted?" Mrs. Fenwick asked.

"I believe they will, and most fervently hope so. They have some evidence about the wheels
of a small cart in which Burrows certainly, and, I believe, no doubt Acorn also, were seen
to drive across Pycroft Common early on the Sunday morning. A part of the tire had come off,
and another bit, somewhat broader, and an inch or so too short, had been substituted. The impress
made by this wheel in the mud, just round the corner by the farm gate, was measured and copied
at the time, and they say that this will go far to identify the men. That the man's cart was
there is certain,--also that he was in the same cart at Pycroft Common an hour or two after
the murder."

"That does seem clear," said Mary.

"But somebody suggests that Sam had borrowed the cart. I believe, however, that it will all
come out;--only, if I have to pay four hundred pounds I shall think that Farmer Trumbull has
cost me very dear."

On the next morning Gilmore came to the vicarage. It had been arranged that he would drive
Fenwick over to Heytesbury, and that he would call for him after breakfast. A somewhat late
hour,--two in the afternoon,--had been fixed for going on with the murder case, as it was necessary
that a certain constable should come down from London on that morning; and, therefore, there
would be no need for the two men to start very early from Bullhampton. This was explained to
Mary by Mrs. Fenwick. "He dines here to-day," she had said when they met in the morning before
prayers, "and you may as well get over the first awkwardness at once." Mary had assented to
this, and, after breakfast, Gilmore made his appearance among them in the garden. He was just
one moment alone with the girl he loved.

"Miss Lowther," he said, "I cannot be with you for an instant without telling you that I am
unchanged."

Mary made no reply, and he said nothing further. Mrs. Fenwick was with them so quickly that
there was no need for a reply,--and then he was gone. During the whole day the two friends
talked of the murder, and of the Brattles, and the chapel,--which was thoroughly inspected
from the roof to the floor,--but not a word was said about the loves of Harry Gilmore or Walter
Marrable. Gilmore's name was often mentioned as the whole story was told of Lord Trowbridge's
new quarrel, and of the correspondence with the bishop,--of which Fenwick had learned the particulars
from the bishop's chaplain. And in the telling of this story Mrs. Fenwick did not scruple to
express her opinion that Harry Gilmore had behaved well, with good spirit, and like a true
friend. "If the Marquis had been anywhere near his own age I believe he would have horsewhipped
him," said the Vicar's wife, with that partiality for the corporal chastisement of an enemy
which is certainly not uncommon to the feminine mind. This was all very well, and called for
no special remark from Mary, and possibly might have an effect.

The gentlemen returned late in the evening, and the Squire dressed at the vicarage. But the
great event of the day had to be told before anyone was allowed to dress. Between four and
five o'clock, just as the magistrates were going to leave the bench, Sam Brattle had walked
into Court.

"And your money is safe?" said his wife.

"Yes, my money is safe; but, I declare, I think more of Sam's truth. He was there, as it seemed,
all of a sudden. The police had learned nothing of him. He just walked into the court, and
we heard his voice. 'They tell me I'm wanted,' he said; and so he gave himself up."

"And what was done?" asked his wife.

"It was too late to do anything; so they allowed a remand for another week, and Sam was walked
off to prison."

