The surprising conduct of the commanders of the two brigades of Wagner's division which were
run over by the enemy, and of the division commander himself, whatever may be true as to the
conflicting statements published in respect to their action, is one of the strongest possible
illustrations of the necessity of the higher military education, and of the folly of intrusting
high commands to men without such education, which, fortunately for the country and the army,
is rarely learned by experience, but must be acquired by laborious study of the rules and principles
laid down by standard authors as derived from the practice and teachings of the great masters
of the art of war in all ages.  A well-educated officer, either as brigade or division commander,
would not have needed orders from any source to tell him what to do in that emergency. He would
have known so surely what his duty was that he would have retired at the proper time behind
the main line, without ever thinking whether or not he had orders to do so.  As well might
I have waited for orders from General Thomas to retire across the Harpeth after my duty on
the south side of that river had been accomplished.  The cases are closely parallel.  Any unofficial
discussion of the question of responsibility for the sacrifice of those two brigades is idle.
According to the established rules of war, those three commanders ought to have been tried
by court- martial, and, if found guilty, shot or cashiered, for sacrificing their own men and
endangering the army.  One example of such punishment would do much to deter ignorant and incompetent
men from seeking high commands in the field.  But the discipline of the volunteer army of a
republic must, it appears, inevitably be, especially in respect to officers of high rank, quite
imperfect, although it may become in respect to the great mass of the troops, as ours certainly
did, exceedingly efficient.

In the Atlanta campaign I sent a division commander to the rear in permanent disgrace for sacrificing
his men in a hopeless assault upon a fortified line, contrary to the general orders and instructions
which General Sherman had published before the opening of the campaign.  But I never heard
of another similar case of even approximate justice to an officer of high rank.  It is a striking
proof of the evil effect of war upon the minds and passions of men, not only of those who are
engaged in it, but even more upon those who see it from a distance, that commanders are often
severely condemned for prudent care of the lives of men under their command, who have no choice
but to march blindly to death when ordered, while the idiotic sacrifice of the bravest and
noblest of patriotic soldiers is loudly applauded as a grand exhibition of "gallantry" in action.
If George H. Thomas had had no other title to honor or fame, he would have deserved the profound
gratitude of the American people, and a very high place among the country's patriots and heroes,
for the reason that while he never yielded ground to an attacking foe, he never uselessly sacrificed
the life of a soldier.

It is a sin for a soldier to throw away his own life.  It is not his, but belongs to his country.
How much greater sin and crime in an officer the throw away the lives of a thousand men!  If
he threw away a thousand dollars, he would be court-martialed and cashiered.  Are not the soldiers
of a republic worth even a dollar apiece!  Patriotism and courage exist in great abundance
in the breasts of young Americans.  All they need is instruction, discipline, a little experience,
such as our greatest soldier said he himself needed at first, and, above all, intelligent leadership,
which can be acquired only by military education, to make them the best soldiers the world
has ever known.

                                                       YELLOW FEVER AVERTED

When I joined my company as second lieutenant in Florida in the winter of 1853-4, I found the
company had been reduced to one lance- sergeant, two lance-corporals, and thirteen privates.
Yellow fever had done its deadly work.  But that lesson was not lost.  In later years, upon
the approach of that enemy, which could not be conquered even by the highest science then known
or practised, the troops were marched a few miles into the pure air of the piney woods, where
the dreaded fever could not reach them.  At the close of the epidemic season which occurred
when I had the honor to command the army, I had the great satisfaction of reporting that not
a single soldier had been killed by that most dreaded of all enemies, and the even greater
satisfaction of reporting that those bravest of the brave, the surgeons who volunteered to
go into the very midst of the camp of the enemy that does not respect even the red cross, to
minister to those who had been stricken down and to study the nature of the disease for the
future benefit of the army and of mankind, had also been unharmed.  As chief of those I do
not hesitate to name the present surgeon-general of the army, George M. Sternberg. Yet how
many of the noblest soldiers of humanity have given their lives in that cause!

Hood's assault at Franklin has been severely criticized.  Even so able a man as General J.
E. Johnston characterizes it as a "useless butchery."  These criticisms are founded upon a
misapprehension of the facts, and are essentially erroneous.  Hood must have been fully aware
of our relative weakness in numbers at Franklin, and of the probable, if not certain, concentration
of large reinforcements at Nashville.  He could not hope to have at any future time anything
like so great an advantage in that respect.  The army at Franklin and the troops at Nashville
were within one night's march of each other; Hood must therefore attack on November 30, or
lose the advantage of greatly superior numbers.  It was impossible, after the pursuit from
Spring Hill, in a short day to turn our position or make any other attack but a direct one
in front.  Besides, our position, with a river in our rear, gave him the chance of vastly greater
results, if his assault were successful, than could be hoped for by any attack he could make
after we had crossed the Harpeth. Still more, there was no unusual obstacle to a successful
assault at Franklin.  The defenses were of the slightest character, and it was not possible
to make them formidable during the short time our troops were in position, after the previous
exhausting operations of both day and night, which had rendered some rest on the 30th absolutely
necessary.

                                                   HOOD'S ASSAULTS REPULSED

The Confederate cause had reached a condition closely verging on desperation, and Hood's commander-in-chief
had called upon him to undertake operations which he thought appropriate to such an emergency.
Franklin was the last opportunity he could expect to have to reap the results hoped for in
his aggressive movement.  He must strike there, as best he could, or give up his cause as lost.
I believe, therefore, that there can be no room for doubt that Hood's assault was entirely
justifiable.  It may have been faulty in execution, in not having been sufficiently supported
by a powerful reserve at the moment of first success.  I have not the means of knowing the
actual facts in this regard; but the result seems to render such a hypothesis at least probable,
and the rapidity and impetuosity of Hood's advance and assault add to that probability.

It is interesting to consider what would probably have been the march of events if we had retreated
from Duck River in the night of November 28, upon first learning that Hood had forced the crossing
of that river.  We would have reached Franklin early on the 29th, could have rebuilt the bridges
and crossed the Harpeth that day and night, and Hood could not have got up in time to make
any serious attack that day.  So far as our little army was concerned, for the moment all would
have been well.  But Hood would have been in front of Franklin, with his whole army, artillery,
and ammunition- trains, by dawn of day on the 30th; he could have forced the crossing of the
Harpeth above Franklin early that day, compelled us to retire to Nashville, and interposed
his cavalry between Nashville and Murfreesboro' that night or early on December 1.  Thus Thomas's
remaining reinforcements from the south and east would have been cut off, and he might have
been attacked in Nashville, not later than December 2, with several thousand fewer men than
he finally had there, a large part of his army--A. J. Smith's three divisions --not fully ready
for battle, and with fewer effective cavalry; while Hood would have had his whole army, fresh
and spirited, without the losses and depression caused by its defeat at Franklin, ready to
attack an inferior force at Nashville or to cross the Cumberland and invade Kentucky.  In short,
the day gained at Duck River and Spring Hill was indispensable to Thomas's success.  The time
gained by that "temerity" made success possible.  The additional time and relative strength
gained by Hood's disastrous repulse at Franklin made final success easy and certain.  A retreat
at any time before nine o'clock A. M. on the 29th would have led to substantially the same
result as if begun at 2 A. M.

If the plan adopted and ordered early in the morning of November 29 had been carried out, by
which the line of Duck River would have been abandoned in the middle of that day, the head
of column from Spring Hill would have arrived at Franklin about midnight, expecting to cross
the Harpeth without delay; but, under the conditions actually found to exist at Franklin, not
much progress toward providing the means of crossing the Harpeth could have been made before
daylight in the morning; therefore our condition for battle at Franklin would not have been
materially different, in time or otherwise, from what it actually was.  Hood's artillery, as
well as his infantry, could have reached Spring Hill before daylight on the 30th, and would
have had practically a clear road to Franklin; for the enemy's superior cavalry having been
interposed between our cavalry and infantry, it was necessary for our infantry, artillery,
and trains to retreat from Spring Hill to Franklin in one compact column.  A small force could
not have been left at Spring Hill, as had been suggested, to delay Hood's advance, because
of the imminent danger that it would be attacked in flank and rear by the enemy's cavalry,
and thus cut off and captured; hence Hood could have made his attack at Franklin about noon,
instead of at 4:30 P. M., and with a large force of artillery as well as of infantry.  Such
an attack would, of course, have been far more formidable than that which was actually made;
whether it could have been successfully resisted from noon until dark can only be conjectured.
It is sufficient here to note that the delay of Hood's advance very greatly diminished the
force of his attack at Franklin, besides making his arrival before that place so late that
he could not turn that position that day by crossing the Harpeth above. The tenacity with which
the crossing of Duck River at Columbia was held was well rewarded at Franklin.

                                    THE ADVANTAGE OF CONTINUING THE RETREAT

The question has been raised whether we ought not to have held our position in front of Franklin
after having repulsed Hood's attack and inflicted such heavy losses upon his troops.  General
Sherman himself impliedly made this suggestion when he expressed the opinion that Thomas ought
to have turned on Hood after his repulse at Franklin; and General Jacob D. Cox, who had been
in the thickest of the fight all the time, with high soldierly instinct sent me, by one of
my staff officers, the suggestion that we stay there and finish the fight the next day.  A
fight to a finish, then and there, might quite probably have given us the prize.  But the reasons
for declining that tempting opportunity for complete victory will, I believe, seem perfectly
clear when fully stated.

In anticipation of orders from General Thomas to fall back to Nashville that night, the trains
had been ordered to the rear before the battle began, so as to clear the way for the march
of our troops, and to render impossible any interference by the enemy's cavalry.  Our ammunition
had been well-nigh exhausted in the battle at Franklin, as is shown by my telegram to General
Thomas to send a million rounds to Brentwood, thinking he might want me to hold Hood there
until he could get A. J. Smith's troops in position and supplied with ammunition.  If I had
needed any such warning, that given me by the general in his despatch,( 3) "But you must look
out that the enemy does not still persist," would have been sufficient to deter me from fighting
him the next day with my "back to the river."  Besides, it is not easy to estimate at midnight
exactly the results of a desperate battle then just terminated.  But all this is insignificant
when compared with the controlling reason. I had then fully accomplished the object (and I
could not then know how much more) for which the command in the field had for a time been intrusted
to me.  My junction with reinforcements at Nashville was assured, as also the future success
of the army under my superior in command.  Why run any further risk?  If it had been possible
for me, at that moment of supreme satisfaction, to have had any thought of self, I might perhaps
have considered the project of turning upon my adversary at dawn the next morning, in hope
of routing his dispirited army.  But if any man thinks such a thought possible under such circumstances,
he knows nothing about the character of a patriotic soldier.  If the troops I then had at Franklin
had been the sole reliance for ultimate success in the campaign, nothing could have been clearer
than my duty to turn and strike with all my might at dawn the next day.

(A copy of all the correspondence between General Thomas and myself, with annotations showing
the time of receipt of the several despatches from General Thomas, thereby showing their influence
upon my actions, has been placed on file at the War Department.  These copies of despatches,
with annotations, are intended mainly for the military student who may care to make a close
and critical study of such military operations.  The original records of such correspondence
are often worse than useless, for the reason that the exact time of sending and receipt of
a despatch is so often omitted.  All sent or received the same day are frequently printed in
the records indiscriminately, so that the last if as likely to come first as otherwise; and,
sometimes, historians have used despatches as if they had been received at the time they were
sent, though in fact many hours or some days had elapsed.  My annotations were made in 1882-3,
at Black Point, San Francisco, California, with the assistance of my ever faithful and efficient
aide, Colonel William M. Wherry, now lieutenant-colonel of the 2d United States Infantry, and
were attached to the copies of the records in 1886.)

[( 1) War Records, Vol. XLV, part I, p. 1108.]

[( 2) War Records, Vol. XLV, part I, pp. 241 and 413.  The loss at Franklin of Opdycke's six
regiments was 205, while the 12th and 16th Kentucky regiments lost 106 men.]

[( 3) War Records, Vol.

I will now add to the foregoing sketch what seems to me necessary to a full understanding of
the operations preceding and immediately following the battle of Franklin, referring briefly,
as necessary to an exact understanding of some things that occurred, to the relation in which
I stood to General Thomas.  He was my senior by thirteen years as a graduate of the Military
Academy, where I had known him well as my highly respected instructor.  He had won high distinction
in Mexico, and had been twice brevetted for gallant services in that war.  He had seen far
more service in the field than I had, and in much larger commands, though almost always under
the immediate command of a superior--Buell, Rosecrans, and Sherman. Even in the Atlanta campaign,
then recently ended, his command was nearly five times as large as mine.  In 1864 he had already
become a brigadier-general in the regular army, having risen to that rank by regular stages,
while I was only a captain thirty-three years of age.  It will also be necessary for the reader
to realize that when I asked for and received orders to report with the Twenty- third Corps
to General Thomas in Tennessee, I felt in the fullest degree all the deference and respect
which were due to his seniority in years and rank and services.

When I went back to Tennessee my only anxiety respecting the situation, so far as General Thomas's
personality affected it, was on account of his constitutional habit of very deliberate action.
I was apprehensive that, in some emergency created by the action of the daring and reckless,
though not over-talented, antagonist he would have to meet, General Thomas might not be able
to determine and act quickly enough to save from defeat his army, then understood to be so
far inferior to the enemy in numerical strength.  I had far too high an opinion of his capacity
as a general to doubt for a moment that with sufficient time in which to mature his plans to
resist Hood's invasion and to execute those plans so far as was in his power, he would do all
that the wisest generalship could suggest.

I will also refer to the official returns of that period, which show what troops General Thomas
had elsewhere in his department and available for service, as well as the effective strength
of the force then under my immediate command in the field, and that of General A. J. Smith's
three divisions, which had been ordered from Missouri to join the forces of General Thomas.
In his entire department, excluding the Fourth and Twenty-third Corps in the field, the infantry
and artillery force, present for duty equipped, officers and men, November 20, 1864, amounted
to 29,332; the two corps in the field, to 24,265; and A. J. Smith's corps, to about 10,000.
The entire cavalry force, mounted and equipped, was about 4800; that unmounted, about 6700.

                                     THE CORRESPONDENCE WITH GENERAL THOMAS

It is necessary to exclude from this statement of troops available for service in middle Tennessee
those in Kentucky and East Tennessee, belonging to the Department of the Ohio, for the reason
that just at that time unusual demand was made upon those troops for service in East Tennessee,
where some of the State forces had met with disaster.  This probably accounts in part for the
discrepancies in General Sherman's estimates referred to later.

Hood's forces were then understood by General Thomas to consist of from 40,000 to 45,000 infantry
and artillery, and 10,000 to 12,000 cavalry, including Forrest's command.  I find from General
Sherman's despatch to Thomas, dated October 19, that his estimate of Hood's strength, October
19, 1864, was about 40,000 men of all arms.

I do not find in General Thomas's report or despatches any exact statement of his own estimate;
but the following language in his official report of January 20, 1865, seems quite sufficiently
explicit on that point:  "Two divisions of infantry, under Major- General A. J. Smith, were
reported on their way to join me from Missouri, which, with several one-year regiments then
arriving in the department, and detachments collected from points of minor importance, would
swell my command, when concentrated, to an army nearly as large as that of the enemy.  Had
the enemy delayed his advance a week or ten days longer, I would have been ready to meet him
at some point south of Duck River. . . . "

This must of course be accepted as General Thomas's own estimate of the enemy's strength, on
which his own action was based.  And it should be remembered that military operations must
be based upon the information then in possession of the commander, and just criticism must
also be based upon his action upon that information, and not upon any afterward obtained.

General Sherman estimated the force left with Thomas ( 1) at about 45,000 (exclusive of the
Fourth and Twenty-third Corps, and Smith's corps coming from Missouri), in which he included
about 8000 or 10,000 new troops at Nashville, and the same number of civil employees of the
quartermaster's department.  The Fourth and Twenty- third corps he estimated at 27,000 men,
and Smith's at 10,000, and the cavalry in the field at 7700.  All this was sufficiently accurate
if no account were taken of men unfit for duty or not equipped. But the official returns show
that the number of officers and men present for duty equipped amounted to 49,322 in the department,
and in the two corps in the field to 24,265, and in the cavalry in the field, to 4800.  There
were therefore the following discrepancies in Sherman's estimate, due in part to the discharge
of men whose terms had expired, as well as to the usual number of men not equipped for duty
in the ranks:  In the troops in the department, a discrepancy of 8000; in the army corps in
the field, 2735; in the cavalry in the field, 2900 ( 2)--a total discrepancy of 13,635.  That
is to say, Sherman's own estimate was in excess of Thomas's actual strength by a force greater
than either of the two army corps he sent back to help Thomas.  If he had sent back another
large corps,--say the Fourteenth, 13,000 strong, having besides the moral strength due to the
fact that it was Thomas's old corps,--the discrepancy in his own estimate would doubtless have
been sufficiently overcome, and the line of Duck River at least, if not that of the Tennessee,
as Sherman had assured Grant, would have been securely held until A. J. Smith arrived and Thomas
could assume the offensive.

Hood's force was ready to invade Tennessee in one compact army, while Thomas then had in the
field ready to oppose it a decidedly inferior force, even admitting the lowest estimate made
of that hostile army.

                                          THE UNTENABLE POSITION AT PULASKI

The superiority of the enemy's cavalry made it necessary that the garrisons of all essential
posts and the guards of important railroad bridges should be strong enough to resist attack
from a large force of dismounted cavalry and light artillery, so long as Thomas was compelled
to remain on the defensive.  The records of that time indicate that Thomas then appreciated,
what mature consideration now confirms, that if Hood's advance had induced him (Thomas) to
draw off sufficient troops from garrisons and railroad guards to enable him to give battle
on equal terms to Hood at Pulaski or Columbia, a raid by Hood's cavalry would probably have
resulted in the destruction or capture of nearly everything in the rear, not only in Tennessee,
but also in Kentucky, except perhaps Nashville and Chattanooga.  It was only wise forethought
which suggested that such might be the nature of Hood's plans, especially in view of the season
of the year and the condition of the roads, which made aggressive operations of a large army,
where all the hard roads were held by the opposing forces, extremely difficult.  The official
returns, now published in the War Records,( 3) show that the troops were sufficient only for
the purpose of garrisons and guards and defensive action in the field until after the arrival
of A. J. Smith; and this is true even if Hood's cavalry force was no larger than that which
now appears from Forrest's report--5000; for Forrest might easily have got a day or two the
start of his pursuer at any time, as had often been done on both sides during the war.

It is true that Sherman's instructions to Thomas appear to have contemplated the possibility,
at least, that Thomas might be reduced to the extreme necessity of holding Nashville, Chattanooga,
and Decatur defensively, even during a long siege, and of abandoning all points of less importance
than the three named, so that all the garrisons of such minor points and all the railroad guards
might be concentrated with the garrisons of these three important strategic points, for their
defense during a siege.  This must of course have referred to the defensive period of the campaign
only, for the moment that Thomas's reinforcements should enable him to assume the offensive
all the necessities above referred to must have disappeared.  It must, I think, be admitted
as beyond question that, in view of his daily expectation of the arrival of A. J. Smith's troops
from Missouri, Thomas was perfectly right in not acting upon Sherman's suggestion of extreme
defensive action, and thus abandoning his railroad to destruction.

If, on the other hand, Thomas's reinforcements had arrived in time to enable him to take the
initiative by moving against Hood from Pulaski or Columbia, then he might have drawn quite
largely from his garrisons in the rear to reinforce his army in the field, since his "active
offensive" operations would have fully occupied Hood's cavalry, and thus have prevented a raid
in Thomas's rear.  But until he was strong enough to advance, unless forced to the extreme
necessity of defending Nashville, Chattanooga, and Decatur, and abandoning all else, Thomas
could not prudently have reduced his garrisons or guards.

I knew nothing at that time of Sherman's instructions to Thomas, and little about the actual
strength of Thomas's garrisons and railroad guards.  But I was under the impression that some
reinforcements must be available from his own department, and felt a little impatient about
the long delay in their arrival, and hence telegraphed General Thomas, November 24, suggesting
the concentration of R. S. Granger's troops and those along the railroad.  The despatches to
me at that time, to be found in the War Records,( 4) fully show the earnest determination of
General Thomas to send forward reinforcements as soon as possible, and even in detail, and
to fight Hood at or near Columbia.  Indeed, those despatches misled me somewhat as to what
I might expect.

                                     AVAILABLE TROOPS NOT SENT TO THE FRONT

