The sum of ten millions was given to the great Carnegie Institute, of Pittsburgh; still another
ten millions were given to Scottish universities, and still another for the purpose of providing
pensions for college professors in the United States and Canada; and finally five millions
for the establishment of a fund to be used for the benefit of the dependants of those losing
their lives in heroic effort to save their fellow-men, or for the heroes themselves, if injured
only. What great benefaction will next be announced cannot, of course, be foretold, but that
some other announcement will some day be forthcoming can scarcely be doubted, since Mr. Carnegie
has announced his ambition to die poor.

Although born in Scotland and maintaining a great estate there, he is an American out-and-out.
He proved his patriotism during the Civil War by serving as superintendent of military railways
and government telegraph lines in the east; and has proved it more than once since by enlisting
in the fight for civic betterment and good government. Thousands of benefactions stand to his
credit, besides the great ones which have been mentioned above, and it is doubtful if in the
history of the world there has ever been another man armed with such power and using it in
such a way.

We will end here the story of American benefactions, although scarcely the half of it has been
told. During the last forty years, not less than one hundred millions of dollars have been
given to American colleges; nearly as much again has been given for the endowment of hospitals,
sanitariums and infirmaries; vast sums have been given for other educational or charitable
purposes, so that, of the great fortunes which have been accumulated in this country, at least
three hundred millions have been returned, in some form or other, to the people. And the end
is not yet. Scientific philanthropy is as yet in its infancy. Just the other day, Mrs. Russell
Sage set apart the sum of ten million dollars for a fund whose chief and almost sole purpose
it is to obtain accurate information concerning social and economic conditions--in other words,
to furnish the data upon which the scientific philanthropy of the future will be based. The
disposition toward such employment of great fortunes, and away from the selfish piling-up of
wealth is one of the most cheering and promising developments of the new century in this great
land of ours; the kings of finance are coming to realize that, after all, wealth is useless
unless it is used for good, and the next half century will no doubt witness the establishment
of philanthropic enterprises on a scale hitherto unknown to history.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have already said that the highest form of philanthropy is not the giving of money, but
the giving of self, and we shall close this chapter with a brief consideration of the careers
of a few of the many men and women who, in the course of American history, have devoted their
lives to the betterment of humanity, either as ministers of the gospel or as laborers for some
great reform.

Among ministers, no name has been more widely known than that of Beecher--first, Lyman Beecher,
and afterwards his brilliant son, Henry Ward Beecher. Lyman Beecher was born in New Haven,
Connecticut, in 1775, the son of a blacksmith, and his youth was spent between blacksmithing
and farming. His love of books soon manifested itself, however, and means were found to prepare
him for Yale, where he graduated at the age of twenty-two. A further year of study enabled
him to enter the ministry. For sixteen years, he was pastor of the Congregational church at
Litchfield, Connecticut, and soon took rank as the leading clergyman of his denomination. His
eloquence, zeal and courage won a wide reputation, and in 1832, he was offered the presidency
of the newly-organized Lane seminary, at Cincinnati. This place he held for twenty years, and
his name was continued as president in the seminary catalogue, until his death.

Soon after he assumed this position, the slavery question began to assume the acute phase which
ended in the Civil War. Mr. Beecher was, of course, an Abolitionist, and for a time lived in
a turmoil, for many of the seminary students were from the south, while Cincinnati itself was
so near the borderline that there was a great pro-slavery sentiment there. But during Mr. Beecher's
absence, his trustees tried to allay excitement and, in a way, carry water on both shoulders,
by forbidding all further discussion of slavery in the seminary, and succeeded in nearly wrecking
the institution, for the students withdrew in a body, and while a few were persuaded to return,
the great majority refused to do so and laid the foundation of Oberlin College. For seventeen
years, Mr. Beecher labored to restore the seminary's prosperity, but finally abandoned the
task in despair. He resigned the presidency in 1852, intending to devote his remaining years
to the revision and publication of his works, but a paralytic stroke put an end to his active
career.

Mr. Beecher's vigor of mind and body were imparted in a remarkable degree to his children,
of whom he had thirteen. Of Harriet Beecher Stowe we have already spoken, but by far the most
famous of them was Henry Ward Beecher. Born in 1813, and renouncing an early desire for a sea-faring
life in favor of the ministry, he secured his first charge in 1837, and ten years later entered
upon the pastorate of Plymouth church, in Brooklyn, where his chief fame was won. The church,
one of the largest in the country, soon became inadequate to hold the crowds which flocked
to hear his brilliant preaching. As a lecturer and platform orator he soon came to be in such
demand that he was at last compelled to decline all such engagements. He took an active part
in politics, holding that Christianity was not a series of dogmas, but a rule of everyday life,
and did not hesitate to attack the abuses of the day from the pulpit. He was as facile with
the pen as with the tongue, and his publications were many and important. All in all, he was
one of the most influential and picturesque figures that has ever occupied an American pulpit.

Lyman Beecher was at all times a doughty antagonist, and in 1826 he had been called to Boston
to take up the cudgels against the so-called Unitarian movement which had developed there,
under the leadership of William Ellery Channing. For six years and a half, he wielded the cudgels
of controversy, but with no great effect, for Channing was a foeman in every sense his equal.
Channing had graduated at Harvard in 1798, a small man of an almost feminine sensibility, with
a singular capacity for winning devoted attachment from all with whom he came in contact. For
two years, he served as tutor in a family at Richmond, Virginia, where he acquired an abhorrence
of slavery that lasted through life. Upon his return north, he began the study of theology
at Cambridge, and in 1803, became pastor of a church in Boston, where he soon attracted attention
by sermons of a rare "fervor, solemnity, and beauty." He was from the first identified with
the movement of thought, which came to be known as Unitarian, and gave to the body so-called
a consciousness of its position and a clear statement of its convictions with his sermon delivered
at Baltimore, in 1819, on the occasion of the ordination of Jared Sparks. For the fifteen years
succeeding, Channing was best known to the public as the leader of the Unitarian movement,
and his sermons delivered during that period constitute the best body of practical divinity
which that movement has produced. In later years, he was identified with many philanthropical
and reform movements, and was one of the pillars of the anti-slavery cause, though never adopting
the extreme opinions of the abolitionists. Of his rare quality and power as a pulpit orator
many traditions remain, and his death at the age of sixty-two removed a great power for righteousness.

Even to give a list of the men and women who have sacrificed their lives in the attempt to
carry the gospel of Christianity to heathen nations is beyond the limits of a book like this,
but at least mention can be made of two of the earliest, Adoniram Judson and his wife, whose
experiences form one of the most thrilling chapters in missionary history.

Adoniram Judson was born in Malden, Massachusetts, in 1788, and after graduating at Brown University,
and taking a special course at Andover Theological seminary, became deeply interested in foreign
missions, and in 1810, determined to go to Burmah. Securing the support of the London Missionary
Society, he sailed for Asia on the nineteenth of February, 1812. Two weeks before, he had married
Ann Haseltine, who consented to share his work, and who sailed with him. On that long voyage,
they had ample time to discuss and consider the various dogmas of their faith, and they became
convinced that the baptism of the New Testament was immersion, and in accordance with this
view, both of them were baptized by immersion upon reaching Calcutta. But this change of faith
cut them off from the body which had sent them to India, and it was not until 1814 that the
Baptists of America took the two missionaries under their care.

Meanwhile, Dr. Judson mastered the Burmese language and began his public preaching. Before
long, he baptized his first convert, and pushed forward the work with renewed zeal, translating
the gospels into Burmese, publishing tracts in that language, and undertaking the most perilous
journeys. The Burmese government had never been friendly, and in 1824, seized the missionaries
and threw them into prison. They were confined in the "death hole," reeking with foul air,
without light, and were loaded with fetters. Just enough food was given them to keep them alive,
and at last, stripped almost naked, they were driven like cattle under the burning sun, to
another prison, where it was intended to burn them alive. They were saved by the intercession
of Sir Archibald Campbell, but Mrs. Judson's health had been wrecked by the terrible experience.
She never recovered, dying two years later. Undaunted by difficulties, Dr. Judson continued
his work, completing his translation of the Bible, travelling over India, compiling a Burmese
grammar and dictionary, but his labors at last undermined even his constitution and he died
at sea in 1850, while on his way to the Isle of France.

Turn we now to Lucretia Mott, one of the most extraordinary women who ever lived in America.
Born in Nantucket in 1793, the daughter of a sea-captain named Thomas Coffin, she was raised
in the strict Quaker faith, to which her parents belonged. She began teaching while still a
girl, and at the age of eighteen, married a fellow teacher, James Mott. It was not long after
that, that she developed the "gift" of speaking at the Quaker meetings, simply, earnestly and
eloquently. The Quakers had always opposed slavery and Lucretia Mott was soon working heart
and soul against it. When the American Anti-Slavery Society was organized in 1833, she was
one of four women who joined it, and she proceeded immediately to organize the Female Anti-Slavery
Society, the first organization of women in America working for a political purpose. Years
of abuse followed, for in those days anti-slavery lecturers were tarred and feathered, their
homes burned, and many other indignities heaped upon them. Throughout all this, Mrs. Mott never
lost her serenity, and never suffered bodily injury.

"But who will take care of you?" he asked.

"This man will," she said, and smilingly laid her hand upon the arm of one of the leaders of
the mob. "He will see me safe through."

The rioter stared down at her for a moment, his conflicting thoughts betraying themselves upon
his countenance, then his better nature triumphed and he led her respectfully to a place of safety.

She seems to have possessed the power of charming any audience, and carried her anti-slavery
campaign even into Kentucky, where she commanded respectful attention. She was one of the first
to take up the question of woman suffrage, and in 1848, with Elizabeth Cady Stanton and a few
others, called the first Woman's Suffrage Convention ever held in this country. For fifty years
she continued her public work, until she grew to be one of the best known and best loved women
in the country. She lived to see the slave freed, and when she died, a great concourse followed
her body silently to the grave. As they stood there with bowed heads, a low voice asked, "Will
no one say anything?"

"Who can speak?" another voice responded, "The preacher is dead."

       *       *       *       *       *

In this day of pitying and enlightened treatment of the insane, it is difficult to realize
the barbarities which they were called upon to endure a century ago. They were regarded almost
as wild beasts, were kept chained in foul and loathsome places, fed with mouldy bread, filthy
water, and allowed to die the most miserable death. For everyone used to believe that insanity
was a mark of God's displeasure, and the outcast from His heart became equally an outcast from
the hearts of men. The insane were regarded with fear and loathing, and it was not until the
beginning of the nineteenth century that such men as Dr. Channing began to insist on the presence
in human nature, even in its most degraded condition, of grains of good.

It was from Dr. Channing that Dorothea Lynde Dix drank in this theory with passionate faith,
and proceeded at once to convert it into action. She was governess of Dr. Channing's children,
and had long been interested in bettering the condition of convicts; but now her attention
was turned to the insane and she proceeded at once to master the whole question of insanity,
its origin, its development, and its treatment, so far as it was then known. Enlisting the
aid of a number of broad-minded men, among them Charles Sumner, she went to work. In one prison,
she found two insane women, each confined in a small cage of planks; others were locked in
closets, cellars, and stalls; some of them were naked, some were chained, some were regularly
beaten and scourged. With all her data at hand, she addressed a memorial to the Massachusetts
legislature, setting forth, in page after page, the details of these almost incredible horrors,
which she herself had witnessed.

It exploded like a bombshell, for it was a terrific arraignment of the whole state. Her statements
were denounced as untrue and slanderous, but a little investigation proved their truth, and
with such men behind her as Channing, Horace Mann, and Samuel G. Howe, it was soon apparent
that something would be done. The obstructions and delays of politicians were swept away before
a steadily rising tide of public indignation, and a large appropriation was made by the legislature
to provide proper quarters and proper treatment for insane persons. So Miss Dix won her first
great victory, the forerunner of similar ones in almost every state in the union; for she travelled
from state to state making the same investigations she had in Massachusetts, arousing public
opinion, and compelling legislature after legislature to make adequate provision for the insane.
The vastness of this campaign which Miss Dix planned deliberately and which she carried through
until she had visited every state east of the Rocky Mountains, gives evidence to her extraordinary
character. During the Civil War, she was superintendent of hospital nurses, having the entire
control of their appointment and assignment. But the care of the insane was her life work.
She resumed it at the close of the war, and carried it forward until her death.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have already referred more than once, in the course of these chapters, to the anti-slavery
agitation which ended in the Civil War. During the second quarter of the nineteenth century,
it was the one great political question in America, upon which men were compelled to take one
side or the other. From the first, there existed in the north a band of abolitionists--of men,
in other words, who believed that the only solution of the slavery question was to put an end
to that institution at once and forever. Of the persecutions which were visited on the abolitionists
we have spoken when telling the story of Lucretia Mott. Social ostracism was the least of them.

Perhaps no one person in America did more to crystalize public sentiment against slavery than
Lydia Maria Child. An author at the age of seventeen, and writing continuously until her death,
coming early under the influence of William Lloyd Garrison, that great leader of the abolitionists,
it was inevitable that she should employ her pen to assist the cause. In 1833 appeared her
"Appeal for that class of Americans called Africans," the first anti-slavery work printed in
America in book form, antedating Mrs. Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin" by nineteen years. It attracted
wide attention, enlisting the interest of such men as Dr. Channing, who walked from Boston
to Roxbury to thank the author. But it was not without its penalties, for society closed its
doors to Mrs. Child, many of her friends deserted her, and she was made the subject of much
cruel comment. However, she became more and more interested in the anti-slavery crusade, edited
the "National Anti-Slavery Standard," and wrote pamphlet after pamphlet. When John Brown was
taken prisoner, she wrote him a letter of sympathy, which drew forth a courteous rebuke from
Governor Wise, of Virginia, and a letter from the wife of Senator Mason, the author of the
fugitive slave law, threatening her with future damnation. These letters were published and
had a circulation of three hundred thousand copies. Wendell Phillips paid an eloquent tribute
to her character and influence, at her funeral: "She was the kind of woman," he said, "one
would choose to represent woman's entrance into broader life. Modest, womanly, sincere, solid,
real, loyal, to be trusted, equal to affairs, and yet above them; a companion with the password
of every science and all literature."

But however valuable the services of women like Lucretia Mott and Lydia Maria Child and Harriet
Beecher Stowe were in the fight against slavery, the leader and high priest of the movement
was William Lloyd Garrison. Born in Newburyport, Massachusetts, in 1805, his was an unhappy
boyhood, for his father, a sea-captain of intemperate and adventurous habits, left his family,
soon after the boy was born, and was never seen again. The mother, a woman of unusual strength
of character, went to work to earn a living for herself and her son, and it was to her careful
training that his development was due. At fourteen years of age, he was apprenticed to a printery
and served until he was of age. From the first he was remarkable for his firmness of moral
principle and for an inflexible adherence to his convictions, no matter at what cost to himself.

He soon showed, too, that he was destined for something more than a printer--a man who puts
in print the ideas of others--that he had ideas of his own. His apprenticeship over, he started
a paper of his own, but it was too reformatory for the taste of the day, and proved a failure.
The most noteworthy thing in connection with it was the publication of some poems which had
been sent in anonymously, and which Garrison, recognizing their merit, discovered to be the
work of John G. Whittier, then entirely unknown. He visited the poet, encouraged him to keep
on writing, and laid the foundation of a friendship which was broken only by death.

Going to Boston after the failure of his paper, Garrison for a time edited the "National Philanthropist,"
devoted to prohibition. This paper, too, was a failure, but at Boston Garrison met a man whose
influence changed the whole course of his life. His name was Benjamin Bundy. He was a Quaker,
and at that time thirty-nine years of age. He was a saddler by trade, but for thirteen years
had devoted his life to the anti-slavery cause, forming anti-slavery societies and editing
a little monthly paper with a portentous name--"The Genius of Universal Emancipation." Bundy,
whose home was in Baltimore, had journeyed to New England in the hope of interesting the clergy
in the cause. In this he was bitterly disappointed, but he mightily stirred the heart of young
Garrison, who soon became his ally and afterwards his partner in the conduct of the paper.
His vigorous editing of it was soon a national sensation. He had seen with dismay the indifference
with which the north regarded the great issue--an indifference grounded on the belief that
slavery was intrenched by the constitution and that all discussion of it was a menace to the
Union. He realized that this indifference could be broken only by heroic measures, and he took
the ground that since slavery was wrong, every slave had a right to instant freedom, and that
immediate emancipation was the duty of the master and of the state.

Baltimore was at that time one of the centres of the slave trade. There were slave-pens on
the principal streets, and Garrison soon witnessed scenes which would have touched a less tender
heart. In the first issue of his paper, he denounced this traffic as "domestic piracy," and
named some men engaged in it, among them a vessel-owner of his own town of Newburyport. This
man immediately had Garrison arrested for "gross and malicious libel," he was found guilty,
fined fifty dollars and costs, and as there was no one to pay this, was thrown into prison.

Garrison took his imprisonment calmly enough, but his old friend, John G. Whittier, was deeply
distressed and appealed to Henry Clay to secure the release of the "guiltless prisoner." This
Clay would probably have done, but he was anticipated by another friend of Garrison's, Arthur
Tappan, of New York, who sent the money to pay the fine, and the young agitator was free again,
after an imprisonment of forty-nine days. He had not been idle while in prison, but had prepared
a series of lectures on slavery, which he proceeded at once to deliver. Then, on the first
day of January, 1831, he began in Boston the publication of a weekly paper called the "Liberator,"
which he continued for thirty-five years, until its fight was won and slavery was abolished.

How well that fight was waged history has shown.

And heard he was. The whole land was soon filled with excitement; the apathy of years was broken.
From the south came hundreds of letters threatening him with death if he did not desist, and
the state of Georgia offered a reward of $5,000 for his apprehension. In the north, anti-slavery
societies were formed everywhere, and the movement grew with great rapidity, in spite of powerful
efforts to crush it. There were riots everywhere. Garrison was dragged through the streets
of Boston with a rope around his body and his life was saved only by lodging him in jail; Elijah
Lovejoy was slain at Alton, Illinois, while defending his press; Marius Robinson, an anti-slavery
lecturer, was tarred and feathered in Mahoning County, Ohio; in the cities of the south, mobs
broke into the postoffice and made bonfires of anti-slavery papers and pamphlets found there.
Quarrels and dissension in the anti-slavery ranks developed in time, but when the Civil War
was over, the leaders of the Republican party united with Garrison's friends in raising for
him the sum of $30,000, and after his death the city of Boston raised a statue to his memory.
Perhaps no better estimate of him has ever been made than that of John A. Andrew, war governor
of Massachusetts:

"The generation which preceded ours regarded him only as a wild enthusiast, a fanatic, or a
public enemy. The present generation sees in him the bold and honest reformer, the man of original,
self-poised, heroic will, inspired by a vision of universal justice, made actual in the practice
of nations; who, daring to attack without reserve the worst and most powerful oppression of
his country and his time, has outlived the giant wrong he assailed, and has triumphed over
the sophistries by which it was maintained."

Closely second to Garrison in the awakening of the public conscience to the enormities of slavery
was Theodore Parker, one of the purest, most self-sacrificing and interesting of personalities.
He came of good stock. His grandfather, John Parker, commanded the little company of minute-men
who held the bridge at Lexington on that fateful nineteenth of April, 1775; his father a farmer,
and Theodore himself the youngest of eleven children. The family was poor and the boy was brought
up to hard labor, with short intervals of schooling now and then. But his thirst for knowledge
seems to have been insatiable, and he read everything he could lay his hands on, even to translations
of Homer and Plutarch and Rollin's "Ancient History." A century ago, a book was a far greater
treasure than it is to-day, when their very number has made us in a way contemptuous of them;
and the few which young Parker could secure were read and re-read and learned through and through.
His memory was amazing, and at the age of twenty he walked from his home in Lexington to Cambridge,
took the entrance examination for Harvard College, passed with honors, and, walking home again,
told his unsuspecting father, then in bed, of his success. He could not be spared from the
farm, however, nor was there any money to pay for his maintenance at Cambridge, so he continued
working on the farm, keeping up with his class by studying in the evenings and going to Cambridge
only to take the examinations.

He undertook teaching after that, and gradually worked his way toward the ministry, to which
he was admitted in 1837. He was soon called to Boston, to a congregation independent of sectarian
bonds, and here he reached the culmination of his fame, attracting the most cultured people
of the city by his breadth of knowledge, warmth of feeling and intensity of conviction. His
interest in slavery began early, and by 1845, his share in the anti-slavery struggle had become
engrossing. He threw himself into it heart and soul, and no one did more to awaken the conscience
of the north. His speeches, letters, sermons, tracts and lectures had an immense influence;
he took an active part in aiding runaway slaves to get to Canada, and his labors were incessant
and prodigious. His health at last gave way, and the end came in 1860, at Florence, Italy,
where he lies buried.

Parker's immense influence was due to the brain rather than to the heart. He possessed no grace
of person, music of voice, or charm of manner, none of that fascination which is a part of
the great orator. He was a white-hot flame which scorched and seared, an intellect pure and
piercing, a self-made instrument to expose the shams of society.

