"Poetic truth is the brightest flower in the crown of Shakespeare's merits;" "Shakespeare is
the greatest moralist of all times;" "Shakespeare exhibits such many-sidedness and such objectivism
that they carry him beyond the limits of time and nationality;" "Shakespeare is the greatest
genius that has hitherto existed;" "For the creation of tragedy, comedy, history, idyll, idyllistic
comedy, esthetic idyll, for the profoundest presentation, or for any casually thrown off, passing
piece of verse, he is the only man. He not only wields an unlimited power over our mirth and
our tears, over all the workings of passion, humor, thought, and observation, but he possesses
also an infinite region full of the phantasy of fiction, of a horrifying and an amusing character.
He possesses penetration both in the world of fiction and of reality, and above this reigns
one and the same truthfulness to character and to nature, and the same spirit of humanity;"
"To Shakespeare the epithet of Great comes of itself; and if one adds that independently of
his greatness he has, further, become the reformer of all literature, and, moreover, has in
his works not only expressed the phenomenon of life as it was in his day, but also, by the
genius of thought which floated in the air has prophetically forestalled the direction that
the social spirit was going to take in the future (of which we see a striking example in Hamlet),--one
may, without hesitation, say that Shakespeare was not only a great poet, but the greatest of
all poets who ever existed, and that in the sphere of poetic creation his only worthy rival
was that same life which in his works he expressed to such perfection."

The obvious exaggeration of this estimate proves more conclusively than anything that it is
the consequence, not of common sense, but of suggestion. The more trivial, the lower, the emptier
a phenomenon is, if only it has become the subject of suggestion, the more supernatural and
exaggerated is the significance attributed to it. The Pope is not merely saintly, but most
saintly, and so forth. So Shakespeare is not merely a good writer, but the greatest genius,
the eternal teacher of man kind.

Suggestion is always a deceit, and every deceit is an evil. In truth, the suggestion that Shakespeare's
works are great works of genius, presenting the height of both esthetic and ethical perfection,
has caused, and is causing, great injury to men.

This injury is twofold: first, the fall of the drama, and the replacement of this important
weapon of progress by an empty and immoral amusement; and secondly, the direct depravation
of men by presenting to them false models for imitation.

Human life is perfected only through the development of the religious consciousness, the only
element which permanently unites men. The development of the religious consciousness of men
is accomplished through all the sides of man's spiritual activity. One direction of this activity
is in art. One section of art, perhaps the most influential, is the drama.

Therefore the drama, in order to deserve the importance attributed to it, should serve the
development of religious consciousness. Such has the drama always been, and such it was in
the Christian world. But upon the appearance of Protestantism in its broader sense, i.e., the
appearance of a new understanding of Christianity as of a teaching of life, the dramatic art
did not find a form corresponding to the new understanding of Christianity, and the men of
the Renaissance were carried away by the imitation of classical art. This was most natural,
but the tendency was bound to pass, and art had to discover, as indeed it is now beginning
to do, its new form corresponding to the change in the understanding of Christianity.

But the discovery of this new form was arrested by the teaching arising among German writers
at the end of the eighteenth and beginning of the nineteenth centuries--as to so-called objective
art, i.e., art indifferent to good or evil--and therein the exaggerated praise of Shakespeare's
dramas, which partly corresponded to the esthetic teaching of the Germans, and partly served
as material for it. If there had not been exaggerated praise of Shakespeare's dramas, presenting
them as the most perfect models, the men of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries would have
had to understand that the drama, to have a right to exist and to be a serious thing, must
serve, as it always has served and can not but do otherwise, the development of the religious
consciousness. And having understood this, they would have searched for a new form of drama
corresponding to their religious understanding.

But when it was decided that the height of perfection was Shakespeare's drama, and that we
ought to write as he did, not only without any religious, but even without any moral, significance,
then all writers of dramas in imitation of him began to compose such empty pieces as are those
of Goethe, Schiller, Hugo, and, in Russia, of Pushkin, or the chronicles of Ostrovski, Alexis
Tolstoy, and an innumerable number of other more or less celebrated dramatic productions which
fill all the theaters, and can be prepared wholesale by any one who happens to have the idea
or desire to write a play. It is only thanks to such a low, trivial understanding of the significance
of the drama that there appears among us that infinite quantity of dramatic works describing
men's actions, positions, characters, and frames of mind, not only void of any spiritual substance,
but often of any human sense.

Let not the reader think that I exclude from this estimate of contemporary drama the theatrical
pieces I have myself incidentally written. I recognize them, as well as all the rest, as not
having that religious character which must form the foundation of the drama of the future.

The drama, then, the most important branch of art, has, in our time, become the trivial and
immoral amusement of a trivial and immoral crowd. The worst of it is, moreover, that to dramatic
art, fallen as low as it is possible to fall, is still attributed an elevated significance
no longer appropriate to it. Dramatists, actors, theatrical managers, and the press--this last
publishing in the most serious tone reports of theaters and operas--and the rest, are all perfectly
certain that they are doing something very worthy and important.

The drama in our time is a great man fallen, who has reached the last degree of his degradation,
and at the same time continues to pride himself on his past of which nothing now remains. The
public of our time is like those who mercilessly amuse themselves over this man once so great
and now in the lowest stage of his fall.

Such is one of the mischievous effects of the epidemic suggestion about the greatness of Shakespeare.
Another deplorable result of this worship is the presentation to men of a false model for imitation.
If people wrote of Shakespeare that for his time he was a good writer, that he had a fairly
good turn for verse, was an intelligent actor and good stage manager--even were this appreciation
incorrect and somewhat exaggerated--if only it were moderately true, people of the rising generation
might remain free from Shakespeare's influence. But when every young man entering into life
in our time has presented to him, as the model of moral perfection, not the religious and moral
teachers of mankind, but first of all Shakespeare, concerning whom it has been decided and
is handed down by learned men from generation to generation, as an incontestable truth, that
he was the greatest poet, the greatest teacher of life, the young man can not remain free from
this pernicious influence. When he is reading or listening to Shakespeare the question for
him is no longer whether Shakespeare be good or bad, but only: In what consists that extraordinary
beauty, both esthetic and ethical, of which he has been assured by learned men whom he respects,
and which he himself neither sees nor feels? And constraining himself, and distorting his esthetic
and ethical feeling, he tries to conform to the ruling opinion. He no longer believes in himself,
but in what is said by the learned people whom he respects. I have experienced all this. Then
reading critical examinations of the dramas and extracts from books with explanatory comments,
he begins to imagine that he feels something of the nature of an artistic impression. The longer
this continues, the more does his esthetical and ethical feeling become distorted. He ceases
to distinguish directly and clearly what is artistic from an artificial imitation of art. But,
above all, having assimilated the immoral view of life which penetrates all Shakespeare's writings,
he loses the capacity of distinguishing good from evil. And the error of extolling an insignificant,
inartistic writer--not only not moral, but directly immoral--executes its destructive work.

This is why I think that the sooner people free themselves from the false glorification of
Shakespeare, the better it will be.

First, having freed themselves from this deceit, men will come to understand that the drama
which has no religious element at its foundation is not only not an important and good thing,
as it is now supposed to be, but the most trivial and despicable of things. Having understood
this, they will have to search for, and work out, a new form of modern drama, a drama which
will serve as the development and confirmation of the highest stage of religious consciousness
in men.

Secondly, having freed themselves from this hypnotic state, men will understand that the trivial
and immoral works of Shakespeare and his imitators, aiming merely at the recreation and amusement
of the spectators, can not possibly represent the teaching of life, and that, while there is
no true religious drama, the teaching of life should be sought for in other sources.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This essay owes its origin to Leo Tolstoy's desire to contribute a preface to the article
he here mentions by Ernest Crosby, which latter follows in this volume.--(Trans.)

[2] "Shakespeare and His Writings," by George Brandes.

[3] A Russian poet, remarkable for the delicacy of his works. There can, indeed, be no question
of the fidelity to democracy of Milton, the republican pamphleteer, nor of Burns, the proud
plowman, who proclaimed the fact that "a man's a man for a' that," nor of Shelley, the awakened
aristocrat, who sang to such as Burns

    "Men of England, wherefore plow
     For the lords who lay ye low?"

But Shakespeare?--Shakespeare?--where is there a line in Shakespeare to entitle him to a place
in this brotherhood? Is there anything in his plays that is in the least inconsistent with
all that is reactionary?

A glance at Shakespeare's lists of dramatis personæ is sufficient to show that he was unable
to conceive of any situation rising to the dignity of tragedy in other than royal and ducal
circles. It may be said in explanation of this partiality for high rank that he was only following
the custom of the dramatists of his time, but this is a poor plea for a man of great genius,
whose business it is precisely to lead and not to follow. Nor is the explanation altogether
accurate. In his play, the "Pinner of Wakefield," first printed in 1599, Robert Greene makes
a hero, and a very stalwart one, of a mere pound-keeper, who proudly refuses knighthood at
the hands of the king. There were other and earlier plays in vogue in Shakespeare's day treating
of the triumphs of men of the people, one, for instance, which commemorated the rise of Sir
Thomas Gresham, the merchant's son, and another, entitled "The History of Richard Whittington,
of his Low Birth, his Great Fortune"; but he carefully avoided such material in seeking plots
for his dramas. Cardinal Wolsey, the butcher's son, is indeed the hero of "Henry VIII.," but
his humble origin is only mentioned incidentally as something to be ashamed of. What greater
opportunity for idealizing the common people ever presented itself to a dramatist than to Shakespeare
when he undertook to draw the character of Joan of Arc in the second part of "Henry VI."? He
knew how to create noble women--that is one of his special glories--but he not only refuses
to see anything noble in the peasant girl who led France to victory, but he deliberately insults
her memory with the coarsest and most cruel calumnies. Surely the lapse of more than a century
and a half might have enabled a man of honor, if not of genius, to do justice to an enemy of
the weaker sex, and if Joan had been a member of the French royal family we may be sure that
she would have received better treatment.

The question of the aristocratic tendency of the drama was an active one in Shakespeare's time.
There was a good deal of democratic feeling in the burghers of London-town, and they resented
the courtly prejudices of their playwrights and their habit of holding up plain citizens to
ridicule upon the stage, whenever they deigned to present them at all. The Prolog in Beaumont
and Fletcher's "Knight of the Burning Pestle" gives sufficient evidence of this. The authors
adopted the device of having a Citizen leap upon the stage and interrupt the Speaker of the
Prolog by shouting

    "Hold your peace, goodman boy!"

    Speaker of Prolog: "What do you mean, sir?"

    Citizen: "That you have no good meaning; this seven
     year there hath been plays at this house. I have observed
     it, you have still girds at citizens."

The Citizen goes on to inform the Speaker of the Prolog that he is a grocer, and to demand
that he "present something notably in honor of the commons of the city." For a hero he will
have "a grocer, and he shall do admirable things." But this proved to be a joke over too serious
a matter, for at the first representation of the play in 1611 it was cried down by the citizens
and apprentices, who did not appreciate its satire upon them, and it was not revived for many
years thereafter. It will not answer, therefore, to say that the idea of celebrating the middle
and lower classes never occurred to Shakespeare, for it was a subject of discussion among his
contemporaries.

It is hardly possible to construct a play with no characters but monarchs and their suites,
and at the same time preserve the verisimilitudes of life. Shakespeare was obliged to make
some use of servants, citizens, and populace. How has he portrayed them? In one play alone
has he given up the whole stage to them, and it is said that the "Merry Wives of Windsor" was
only written at the request of Queen Elizabeth, who wished to see Sir John Falstaff in love.
It is from beginning to end one prolonged "gird at citizens," and we can hardly wonder that
they felt a grievance against the dramatic profession. In the other plays of Shakespeare the
humbler classes appear for the main part only occasionally and incidentally. His opinion of
them is indicated more or less picturesquely by the names which he selects for them. There
are, for example, Bottom, the weaver; Flute, the bellows-maker; Snout and Sly, tinkers; Quince,
the carpenter; Snug, the joiner; Starveling, the tailor; Smooth, the silkman; Shallow and Silence,
country justices; Elbow and Hull, constables; Dogberry and Verges, Fang and Snare, sheriffs'
officers; Mouldy, Shadow, Wart, and Bull-calf, recruits; Feebee, at once a recruit and a woman's
tailor, Pilch and Patch-Breech, fishermen (though these last two appellations may be mere nicknames);
Potpan, Peter Thump, Simple, Gobbo, and Susan Grindstone, servants; Speed, "a clownish servant";
Slender, Pistol, Nym, Sneak, Doll Tear-sheet, Jane Smile, Costard, Oatcake, Seacoal, and various
anonymous "clowns" and "fools." Shakespeare rarely gives names of this character to any but
the lowly in life, altho perhaps we should cite as exceptions Sir Toby Belch and Sir Andrew
Ague-Cheek in "Twelfth Night"; the vicar, Sir Oliver Mar-Text, in "As You Like It"; Moth, the
page, in "Love's Labor Lost," and Froth, "a foolish gentleman," in "Measure for Measure," but
none of these personages quite deserves to rank as an aristocrat. Such a system of nomenclature
as we have exposed is enough of itself to fasten the stigma of absurdity upon the characters
subjected to it, and their occupations. Most of the trades are held up for ridicule in "Midsummer
Night's Dream"; Holofernes, the schoolmaster, is made ridiculous in "Love's Labor Lost," and
we are told of the middle-class Nym, Pistol, and Bardolph that "three such antics do not amount
to a man" (Henry V., Act 3, Sc. 2). But it is not necessary to rehearse the various familiar
scenes in which these fantastically named individuals raise a laugh at their own expense.

The language employed by nobility and royalty in addressing those of inferior station in Shakespeare's
plays may be taken, perhaps, rather as an indication of the manners of the times than as an
expression of his own feeling, but even so it must have been a little galling to the poorer
of his auditors. "Whoreson dog," "whoreson peasant," "slave," "you cur," "rogue," "rascal,"
"dunghill," "crack-hemp," and "notorious villain"--these are a few of the epithets with which
the plays abound. The Duke of York accosts Thomas Horner, an armorer, as "base dunghill villain
and mechanical" (Henry VI., Part 2, Act 2, Sc. 3); Gloster speaks of the warders of the Tower
as "dunghill grooms" (Ib., Part 1, Act 1, Sc. 3), and Hamlet of the grave-digger as an "ass"
and "rude knave." Valentine tells his servant, Speed, that he is born to be hanged (Two Gentlemen
of Verona, Act 1, Sc. 1), and Gonzalo pays a like compliment to the boatswain who is doing
his best to save the ship in the "Tempest" (Act 1, Sc. 1). This boatswain is not sufficiently
impressed by the grandeur of his noble cargo, and for his pains is called a "brawling, blasphemous,
uncharitable dog," a "cur," a "whoreson, insolent noise-maker," and a "wide-chapped rascal."
Richard III.'s Queen says to a gardener, who is guilty of nothing but giving a true report
of her lord's deposition and who shows himself a kind-hearted fellow, "Thou little better thing
than earth," "thou wretch"! Henry VIII. talks of a "lousy footboy," and the Duke of Suffolk,
when he is about to be killed by his pirate captor at Dover, calls him "obscure and lowly swain,"
"jaded groom," and "base slave," dubs his crew "paltry, servile, abject drudges," and declares
that his own head would

         "sooner dance upon bloody pole
    Than stand uncovered to a vulgar groom."
                (Henry VI., Part 2, Act 4, Sc. 1.)

Petruchio "wrings Grumio by the ear," and Katherine beats the same
unlucky servant. His master indulges in such terms as "foolish knave,"
"peasant swain," and "whoreson malthorse drudge" in addressing him;
cries out to his servants, "off with my boots, you rogues, you
villains!" and strikes them.
                (Taming of the Shrew, Act 4, Sc. 3.)

Joan of Arc speaks of her "contemptible estate" as a shepherd's daughter, and afterward, denying
her father, calls him "Decrepit miser! base, ignoble wretch!" (Henry VI., Part 1, Act 1, Sc.
2, and Act 5, Sc. 4.) It is hard to believe that Shakespeare would have so frequently allowed
his characters to express their contempt for members of the lower orders of society if he had
not had some sympathy with their opinions.

Shakespeare usually employs the common people whom he brings upon the stage merely to raise
a laugh (as, for instance, the flea-bitten carriers in the inn-yard at Rochester, in Henry
IV., Part 1, Act 2, Sc. 1), but occasionally they are scamps as well as fools. They amuse us
when they become hopelessly entangled in their sentences (vide Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Sc.
2), or when Juliet's nurse blunderingly makes her think that Romeo is slain instead of Tybalt;
but when this same lady, after taking Romeo's money, espouses the cause of the County Paris--or
when on the eve of Agincourt we are introduced to a group of cowardly English soldiers--or
when Coriolanus points out the poltroonery of the Roman troops, and says that all would have
been lost "but for our gentlemen," we must feel detestation for them. Juliet's nurse is not
the only disloyal servant. Shylock's servant, Launcelot Gobbo, helps Jessica to deceive her
father, and Margaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, brings about the disgrace of her mistress
by fraud. Olivia's waiting-woman in "Twelfth Night" is honest enough, but she is none too modest
in her language, but in this respect Dame Quickly in "Henry IV." can easily rival her. Peter
Thump, when forced to a judicial combat with his master, displays his cowardice, altho in the
end he is successful (Henry VI., Act 2, Part 2, Sc. 3), and Stephano, a drunken butler, adorns
the stage in the "Tempest." We can not blame Shakespeare for making use of cutthroats and villains
in developing his plots, but we might have been spared the jokes which the jailors of Posthumus
perpetrate when they come to lead him to the scaffold, and the ludicrous English of the clown
who supplies Cleopatra with an asp. The apothecary who is in such wretched plight that he sells
poison to Romeo in spite of a Draconian law, gives us another unflattering picture of a tradesman;
and when Falstaff declares, "I would I were a weaver; I could sing psalms or anything," we
have a premature reflection on the Puritan, middle-class conscience and religion. In "As You
Like It," Shakespeare came near drawing a pastoral sketch of shepherds and shepherdesses on
conventional lines. If he failed to do so, it was as much from lack of respect for the keeping
of sheep as for the unrealities of pastoral poetry. Rosalind does not scruple to call the fair
Phebe "foul," and, as for her hands, she says:

    "I saw her hand; she has a leathern hand,
     A freestone colored hand; I verily did think
     That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands;
     She has a housewife's hand."

No one with a high respect for housewifery could have written that line. When in the same play
Jaques sees the pair of rural lovers, Touchstone and Audrey, approaching, he cries: "There
is, sure, another flood, and these couples are coming to the ark! Here come a pair of very
strange beasts, which in all tongues are called fools" (Act 5, Sc. 4). The clown, Touchstone,
speaks of kissing the cow's dugs which his former sweetheart had milked, and then marries Audrey
in a tempest of buffoonery. Howbeit, Touchstone remains one of the few rustic characters of
Shakespeare who win our affections, and at the same time he is witty enough to deserve the
title which Jaques bestows upon him of a "rare fellow."

Occasionally Shakespeare makes fun of persons who are somewhat above the lower classes in rank.
I have mentioned those on whom he bestows comical names. He indulges in humor also at the expense
of the two Scottish captains, Jamy and Macmorris, and the honest Welsh captain, Fluellen (Henry
V., Act 3, Sc. 2 et passim), and shall we forget the inimitable Falstaff? But, while making
every allowance for these diversions into somewhat nobler quarters (the former of which are
explained by national prejudices), do they form serious exceptions to the rule, and can Falstaff
be taken, for instance, as a representative of the real aristocracy? As Queen and courtiers
watched his antics on the stage, we may be sure that it never entered their heads that the
"girds" were directed at them or their kind.

The appearance on Shakespeare's stage of a man of humble birth who is virtuous without being
ridiculous is so rare an event that it is worth while to enumerate the instances. Now and then
a servant or other obscure character is made use of as a mere lay figure of which nothing good
or evil can be predicated, but usually they are made more or less absurd. Only at long intervals
do we see persons of this class at once serious and upright. As might have been expected, it
is more often the servant than any other member of the lower classes to whom Shakespeare attributes
good qualities, for the servant is a sort of attachment to the gentleman and shines with the
reflection of his virtues. The noblest quality which Shakespeare can conceive of in a servant
is loyalty, and in "Richard II." (Act 5, Sc. 3) he gives us a good example in the character
of a groom who remains faithful to the king even when the latter is cast into prison. In "Cymbeline"
we are treated to loyalty ad nauseam. The king orders Pisanio, a trusty servant, to be tortured
without cause, and his reply is,

    "Sir, my life is yours.
     I humbly set it at your will."
                (Act 4, Sc. 3.)

In "King Lear" a good servant protests against the cruelty of Regan and Cornwall toward Gloucester,
and is killed for his courage. "Give me my sword," cries Regan. "A peasant stand up thus!"
(Act 3, Sc. 7). And other servants also show sympathy for the unfortunate earl. We all remember
the fool who, almost alone, was true to Lear, but, then, of course, he was a fool. In "Timon
of Athens" we have an unusual array of good servants, but it is doubtful if Shakespeare wrote
the play, and these characters make his authorship more doubtful. Flaminius, Timon's servant,
rejects a bribe with scorn (Act 3, Sc. 1). Another of his servants expresses his contempt for
his master's false friends (Act 3, Sc. 3), and when Timon finally loses his fortune and his
friends forsake him, his servants stand by him. "Yet do our hearts wear Timon's livery" (Act
4, Sc. 2). Adam, the good old servant in "As You Like It," who follows his young master Orlando
into exile, is, like Lear's fool, a noteworthy example of the loyal servitor.

    "Master, go on, and I will follow thee
     To the last gasp with truth and loyalty."

Outside the ranks of domestic servants we find a few cases of honorable poverty in Shakespeare.
In the play just quoted, Corin, the old shepherd, says:

     "Sir, I am a true laborer; I earn that I eat, get that I
     wear; owe no man hate, envy no man's happiness; glad of
     other men's good, content with my harm; and the greatest of
     my pride is to see my ewes graze and my lambs suck."
                (As You Like It, Act 3, Sc. 2.)

in short, an ideal proletarian from the point of view of the aristocrat.

The "Winter's Tale" can boast of another good shepherd (Act 3, Sc. 3), but he savors a little
of burlesque. "Macbeth" has several humble worthies. There is a good old man in the second
act (Sc. 2), and a good messenger in the fourth (Sc. 2). King Duncan praises highly the sergeant
who brings the news of Macbeth's victory, and uses language to him such as Shakespeare's yeomen
are not accustomed to hear (Act 1, Sc. 2). And in "Antony and Cleopatra" we make the acquaintance
of several exemplary common soldiers. (Act 3, Sc. 1.)

The rank and file always fare well before a battle.

    "Oh, it's 'Tommy this' and 'Tommy that' an' 'Tommy, go away';
     But it's 'Thank you, Mr. Atkins,' when the band begins to play."

I should like to add some instances from Shakespeare's works of serious and estimable behavior
on the part of individuals representing the lower classes, or of considerate treatment of them
on the part of their "betters," but I have been unable to find any, and the meager list must
end here.

But to return to Tommy Atkins. He is no longer Mr. Atkins after the battle. Montjoy, the French
herald, comes to the English king under a flag of truce and asks that they be permitted to
bury their dead and

    "Sort our nobles from our common men;
     For many of our princes (wo the while!)
     Lie drowned and soaked in mercenary blood;
     So do our vulgar drench their peasant limbs
     In blood of princes." (Henry V., Act 4, Sc. 7.)

With equal courtesy Richard III., on Bosworth field, speaks of his opponents to the gentlemen
around him:

    "Remember what you are to cope withal--
     A sort of vagabonds, rascals, and runaways,
     A scum of Bretagne and base lackey peasants."
                (Act 5, Sc. 3.)

But Shakespeare does not limit such epithets to armies. Having, as we have seen, a poor opinion
of the lower classes, taken man by man, he thinks, if anything, still worse of them taken en
masse, and at his hands a crowd of plain workingmen fares worst of all.

Bottom, their leader, is, according to Oberon, a "hateful fool," and according to Puck, the
"shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort" (Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 3, Scs. 1 and 2,
Act 4, Sc. 1). Bottom's advice to his players contains a small galaxy of compliments:

     "In any case let Thisby have clean linen, and let not him
     that plays the lion pare his nails, for they shall hang out
     for the lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no onion or
     garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath, and I do not doubt
     to hear them say, it is a sweet comedy."
                (Ib., Act 4, Sc. 2.)

The matter of the breath of the poor weighs upon Shakespeare and his
characters.
                (Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Sc. 2.)

Coriolanus has his sense of smell especially developed. They are the "mutable, rank-scented
many" (Act 3, Sc. 1). His friend Menenius is equally complimentary to his fellow citizens.
"You are they," says he,

    "That make the air unwholesome, when you cast
     Your stinking, greasy caps, in hooting at
     Coriolanus's exile."
                (Act 4, Sc. 7.)

And he laughs at the "apron-men" of Cominius and their "breath of garlic-eaters" (Act 4, Sc.
7). When Coriolanus is asked to address the people, he replies by saying: "Bid them wash their
faces, and keep their teeth clean" (Act 2, Sc. 3). According to Shakespeare, the Roman populace
had made no advance in cleanliness in the centuries between Coriolanus and Cæsar. And he calls
them the "tag-rag people" (Julius Cæsar, Act 1, Sc. 2). The play of "Coriolanus" is a mine
of insults to the people and it becomes tiresome to quote them. The hero calls them the "beast
with many heads"

    First Citizen. We have ever your good word.

    Coriolanus.
                (Act 1, Sc. 1.)

His mother, Volumnia, is of like mind. She calls the people "our general
louts" (Act 3, Sc. 2).
                (Act 4, Sc. 2).

In the same play Cominius talks of the "dull tribunes" and "fusty plebeians" (Act 1, Sc. 9).
Menenius calls them "beastly plebeians" (Act 2, Sc. 1), refers to their "multiplying spawn"
(Act 2, Sc. 2), and says to the crowd:

     "Rome and her rats are at the point of battle."
                (Act 1, Sc. 2).

The dramatist makes the mob cringe before Coriolanus. When he appears, the stage directions
show that the "citizens steal away." (Act 1, Sc. 1.)

As the Roman crowd of the time of Coriolanus is fickle, so is that of Cæsar's. Brutus and Antony
sway them for and against his assassins with ease:

      "First Citizen. This Cæsar was a tyrant.

       Second Citizen. Nay, that's certain.
    We are blessed that Rome is rid of him....

