"Be quiet, Jule, we haven't a minute to lose," said Lili seriously. Jule laughed aloud and
went on his way. Going down stairs, he met Miss Hanenwinkel.

"What has got into the twins now?" he asked. "Have they taken the notion of being virtuous,
into their small noddles?"

"That is more likely at seven than at seventeen;" was all the answer he got.

He went on down stairs still laughing, and just at the front door met his mother. She was starting
at that early hour to try to see the doctor before he went from home, to ask him exactly the
state of Dora's arm, and whether there was any danger for the child. Aunt Ninette's anxiety
had infected her, and she could not rest until she knew the probabilities of the case.

"Do I hear some one playing on the piano, Jule?" she asked. "It is an unusual sound for this
time of day."

"Mother dear, I do believe that the end of the world is coming," replied Julius;

"Lili is up there hurrying from one finger-exercise to another as if she could not get enough
of that exquisite amusement, and Wili is seated at her side in a similar condition of nervous
industry, waiting for his turn at the piano."

"A strange state of things, to be sure, Jule," said his mother; "for it was only yesterday
that Miss Hanenwinkel was complaining to me that Lili did not show the slightest interest in
her music, and that she would not even play her piece, much less her exercises."

"It's just as I said; the end of the world is coming," said Jule, turning towards the stable.

"Let us hope rather the beginning," replied Mrs. Birkenfeld, starting in the other direction
to go down the hill towards the village. When she reached the doctor's house, she was so fortunate
as to find him at home, and she asked him the question that so greatly disquieted her. He assured
her that the wound was doing perfectly well, and that there was not the slightest danger of
any permanent stiffness of the arm; though he laughingly owned that he had made the worst of
it to Dora, in order to impress her with caution for the future. It would be all over in a
day or two at farthest. Mrs. Birkenfeld was much relieved, for besides her sympathy for Dora,
she had felt keenly her children's responsibility for the misfortune.

On her way home Mrs. Birkenfeld stopped to speak to Aunt Ninette; not only to carry her the
doctor's favorable verdict, but also to talk with her about Dora. She now learned for the first
time, that Dora was to earn her living by sewing; and that for this reason her aunt felt obliged
to keep her so closely to her shirt-making.

Mrs. Birkenfeld took a warm interest in Dora. She thought the little girl very delicate for
such heavy work, and she was glad that there was still some time left for her to grow stronger
before she had to go back to Karlsruhe, and settle down to regular work again. She begged Aunt
Ninette to let the child, during the rest of their stay, give up the sewing entirely, and she
offered to let her own seamstress make the shirts, that Dora might be free to amuse herself
with the children, and gain strength by play in the open air.

The self-possessed, quiet manner of Mrs. Birkenfeld had an excellent effect on Mrs. Ehrenreich,
and she acquiesced in this proposal without the slightest demur. Indeed the path of the future,
that had looked so beset with difficulties, seemed now to lie smooth before her, and all her
prospects were brightened. She spoke with great thankfulness on her husband's account; for
he already found himself so improved by the fresh air and quiet of the summer house, and he
was so thoroughly comfortable and contented there, that he could hardly bear to leave it, even
to come in at night.

When Mrs. Birkenfeld rose to go, she cordially invited Aunt Ninette to come often to see her
in the garden, saying that she must find it lonely in the cottage, and that the open air would
be good for her also. Aunt Ninette was much gratified by this courtesy, and accepted it with
pleasure; quite forgetting the noise of the children, which had been so great a bugbear to her.

Dora had sprung out of bed that morning as soon as she opened her eyes, for the thought of
the pleasure before her made her heart dance for joy. She had to curb her impatience however
for a time, for Mrs. Ehrenreich did not approve of imposing upon people who were inclined to
be neighborly. It was not till Mrs. Birkenfeld had come over to the cottage, and after talking
some time with the aunt had asked after Dora and repeated her invitation, that the little girl
was allowed to go. This time she did not stand still and look shyly about; with a few springing
steps she reached the house, and at the door of the sitting-room she was received with a chorus
of welcoming voices; while Wili and Lili and little Hunne and Paula all ran out to meet her,
and draw her in among them. Julius, just returned from his ride, had thrown himself as usual
into an arm-chair, stretching out his legs, as an intimation that he should like to have his
boots pulled off. Dora ran forward and offered her services, frankly desirous of making herself
useful. But Jule instantly drew in his long legs.

"No, no, Dora; not for the world; what are you thinking about?" he cried, jumping up and very
politely offering Dora his chair. Before she could take it, the twins pulled her away; saying
"Come with us!" and Hunne tugged at her dress behind, calling loud, "Come with me!" while Paula
reaching over him, whispered softly in her ear, "Go first with the twins; or they will keep
this up all day; bye and bye I will come to you, and then we can have some comfort together."

"Dora," said Jule, waving off the three noisy creatures, "I advise you to stay by me; it is
your only hope of a happy existence in this house-hold; for I can tell you if you go with Paula,
you will grow too romantic; you will scarcely breathe the fresh air, and will lose your appetite
completely. If you take Rolf for your companion, your whole existence will become one great
perpetual riddle."

"That it will be at any rate," remarked Miss Hanenwinkel, who was passing through the room
at that moment.

"If you prefer to go with Miss Hanenwinkel," said Jule quickly, so that the governess might
be sure to hear what he said; "you will be preserved in salt; quite the opposite you see to
plums, which are done in sugar! If your choice falls on the twins, you will be torn in two,
and as to little Hunne; if you go with him he will talk you deaf!"

In spite of this melancholy prediction, Dora allowed herself to be carried off by the twins,
and Hunne ran after them. When they reached the piano, Lili began to play her one piece, and
when she came to the end, she glanced at Dora who nodded so pleasantly that Lili, thus encouraged,
began again at the beginning.

They were so carried away by their own music that the voices rose louder and louder, and Hunne's
out-screamed them all. Presently Lili twirled round on her stool, and said, her eyes shining
with joyful expectation:

"Just wait till to-morrow, Dora, and then you'll see!" for the child had worked so diligently
at her exercises that morning that she felt that she had a right to claim at least half a dozen
new pieces from Miss Hanenwinkel to-morrow.

At this moment the bell rang for the twins to go to their lessons; a sound that Hunne was well-pleased
to hear, for now he could have Dora to himself till dinner-time; and the little girl gave herself
up to him so cheerfully and with such warm interest in the artistic performances of his nut-cracker,
that he made a firm resolution then and there never to let her go again. But no sooner was
dinner over, than his plan was completely upset. Paula had finished her French lessons, and
with her mother's leave, she now took possession of Dora. As for Dora, she asked nothing better;
she would have been glad to spend whole days and nights talking with Paula, telling all the
secrets of her heart, and hearing in return all her friend's thoughts and wishes, hopes and
fears. They both felt sure that they could never be tired of being together, and of sharing
each other's memories of the past and plans for the future. A long life-time would not be enough
for them. It was seven o'clock before they again joined the family group which was gathered
under the apple-tree; and being late they slipped into their places very quickly, for the father
had begun to cough significantly, to show that things were not just as they should be. During
the meal, Rolf cast meaning looks across to Dora, that seemed to say,

"We two have a plan together next; don't forget!"

While they all sat chatting merrily after supper was over, Rolf was watching the sky, to see
when the first pale star should peep through the twilight amid the twigs of the apple-tree;
and as soon as he spied one, he came to Dora, saying

"Now, Dora, look, up there!" and he carried her off to the very farthest corner of the garden,
to make sure that none of his brothers or sisters should interfere with them. He felt quite
securely hidden under protecting nut-trees, and placing himself in the right position, he began
his lesson.

"Do you see, there, your five stars--one two three, and then two more. Do you see them distinctly?"

"Oh yes; I know them so well, so well," said Dora.

"Well, that constellation is Cassiopeia. And now just wait a moment, Dora. I've just thought
of a riddle that is very appropriate. You can guess it easily, if you try."

"I will if I can, but I am afraid your riddles are too hard for me:"

    "My first's a most delicious drink,
     But best of all when fresh, I think.
     Add then my second, and you make
     An adjective, small pains to take!
     My third must strait and narrow prove
     Or 'twill not lead to heaven above.
     Now for my whole--a countless host
     In which each separate light is lost.

"Have you guessed it, Dora?"

"No, and I'm sure I cannot guess it. I am terribly dull at such things. I am sorry; for it
makes it stupid for you, but I can't help it," said Dora dolefully.

"Of course you can't help it now, because you are not used to them," said the boy consolingly.
"I will give you an easier one to begin with:

    "For full enjoyment of our youth
     My first is needful as the truth,
     And at man's very farthest end
     My second comes--and now attend,
     Master of Greek Philosophy
     My whole, its shining crown you see."

"I cannot, I cannot, you are only losing time and trouble, Rolf, I do not know the least bit
about Greek things," said Dora sighing.

"Never mind, I will try another country; how is this?" and before Dora could protest, the indefatigable
riddle-maker declaimed:

    "My fickle first is said to be
     England's high-road of industry;
     But Germany denies the same
     And with a Key she makes her claim.
     In Russia, nihilistic power
     Threatens my second, every hour.
     But Rome, Imperial Rome, to you,
     My whole was pride and terror too!"

"That's true!" It was a deep voice that echoed in the surrounding darkness, and the startled
children clung to each other for a moment in terror. Then Dora began to laugh.

"It is Uncle Titus," she said, "he is sitting there in the summer-house. Come, Rolf, let us
go in and see him."

Rolf assented; and they found Uncle Titus sitting there with his chair tipped back against
the wall, looking very much pleased to see them. Rolf returned his greeting very cordially,
and inquired quite casually whether he had guessed the riddle.

"I think it must be 'Caesar,' is it not, my son?" said Uncle Titus tapping the lad kindly on
the shoulder.

"Yes, that's right; and did you hear the others I was saying, and did you guess them?"

"Possibly, possibly, my son," replied the good man. "I am much mistaken if the first is not
'Milky-way,' and the second, 'Plato.'"

"Both right!" cried Rolf, highly delighted. "It is the greatest fun to make riddles and have
them guessed so quickly. I have another, and another, and one more. May I give you another,
Mr. Ehrenreich?"

"Certainly, my dear boy, why not? out with them, all three, and we will try to guess them all."

Rolf was enchanted, and set about recalling them. "I will take the shortest first," he said:

    "My first implies strength and grace;
     In all things my second finds place;
     My whole was the scourge of the race."

"Have you guessed that?"

"Very likely, very likely, my son; now the next:"

    "Take all that the senses attest
     Add the sign of the beast for the rest,
     And my glorious whole stands confessed."

"And now another," said Uncle Titus, nodding.

"And now I have a very long one, and rather harder," said the lad:

      "A thrill through all the nations ran,
       When he, my whole, the grand old man,
       Spoke words that e'en my second turn
       My first, with hopes that glow and burn.
       But now are hearts to anger spurred;
       Nations are sick with hope deferred,
    Alas! small chance for Ireland we know!
    My first my second at my whole we throw."

Rolf stopped, quite excited with the declamation of his favorite charade.

"Now we will begin to guess, my son," said Uncle Titus, with a pleased expression: "First,
Bonaparte. Second, Matterhorn. Third, Gladstone."

"Every one right!" cried Rolf, exultantly. "This is splendid! I have always wanted to do this
with my riddles; that is, find some one who could guess them all. Before this, I've always
had a heap of unguessed riddles. Now they are all guessed, and I can begin again with a new
set!" Rolf was full of satisfaction.

"I will make you a proposal, my son," said Uncle Titus, as he rose from his seat, and prepared
to return to the cottage; "Come to me here every evening, and bring me the fresh set. Who knows
but that I may have a few to give you in return?"

By this time it was rather too late for the study of the stars, and that had to be postponed;
so Dora and Rolf returned to the rest of the family; Rolf quite overjoyed with the pleasant
interview he had had, and with the prospect of its repetition; while on his side Uncle Titus
wended his way to the cottage, filled with quiet satisfaction at the thought of his new friend;
for he had always wanted a son, a twelve year old son, who should have left behind the noise
and follies of childhood, and have become old enough to be an intelligent and agreeable companion.
Now Rolf fulfilled these conditions; and moreover displayed a decided predilection for Uncle
Titus, who began to feel a most paternal interest spring up in his heart towards the lad.

For the tune was floating in his memory as he had heard it sung that morning by the fresh young
voices, and out came the joyous notes under the peaceful heavens.

At the cottage window, Aunt Ninette stood looking out for her husband; and as she heard his
voice singing this merry melody, it was with nothing short of amazement that she said to herself,
"Can that be Uncle Titus?"

CHAPTER IX.

"WHAT MUST BE, MUST BE."

Time passed quickly at the two houses, in this new and happy companionship.

"Another week gone already!" and "Sunday again so soon!" were the exclamations heard on every
side, as each week went by. And Dora was the happiest of all; the days fairly danced with her:
they certainly had not more than half as many hours as they had had in Karlsruhe, and every
evening she was sorry to have to go to bed, and lose in sleep so much of the little time that
remained of her visit. If she could only have passed the whole night at the piano, practising
while the others were sleeping, she thought she could have nothing more to desire. Her arm
was now wholly healed, and she was taking music-lessons with a kind of furor; and in Lili she
had a teacher whose zeal equaled her own. A most agreeable teacher too, who did not trouble
her pupil with finger-exercises and scales, but gave her tunes at once without more ado; and
first of course the favorite, "Live thy life merrily." Dora learned the air very quickly with
the right hand, and Lili did not require her to learn the left hand yet; declaring that it
was quite too difficult to play both together. All this playing-teacher was so improving to
Lili, that she began to make wonderful progress herself, so that Miss Hanenwinkel was equally
surprised and pleased at her improvement, and her mother often paused outside of the school-room
door to listen to the firm but lively touch with which her little daughter rendered her studies;
for Lili had really great talent for music, and now that a sufficient motive had been applied,
she advanced rapidly.

Paula was in a state of tranquil blessedness all day long. She had found a friend, and such
a friend! The reality of this friendship far surpassed her imagination and her hopes, for such
a one as Dora she could not have conceived of; one who was so attractive not only to her, but
to every member of the family. Like Dora, Paula grudged the hours passed in sleep, now that
there were so few left that they could spend together.

Rolf had abandoned his old plan of charade-making, and had started on an entirely new system,
and he spent his leisure hours striding up and down certain of the garden-walks, sunk in thought
with his hands clasped behind his back, and so lost to outward things that Hunne was charged
to keep away from these paths; for more than once he was almost run down by his brother. A
new set of riddles was now ready every evening for Uncle Titus, who was always waiting for
his young friend in the summer-house, prepared to guess, and showing remarkable skill in finding
out even the most intricate puzzles; and as a natural result, Rolf grew more and more clever
in making them. Before long, Uncle Titus began to give riddles himself in return, and his were
carefully written out; for they required serious study, as they were in Latin. Rolf carried
these home to his father and Jule, but they would not even try to guess them. Mr. Ehrenreich
declared that his Latin was quite too rusty for such work as this, and Jule maintained that
during vacation he did not dare to tax his brain unnecessarily; he needed all his wits for
his serious work next term. So Rolf worked away by himself, dictionary in hand, and twisted
and turned the words till he wrung out their meaning. Then he showed them with triumph to his
father and brother, and in the evening carried them to Uncle Titus. The pleasure which his
kind old friend took in his success spurred the boy on to greater activity. He studied not
only the riddles themselves, but his Latin lessons more earnestly, and he took to early rising,
and every morning before breakfast he worked with his Lexicon in the garden, as if his livelihood
depended on the solution of Latin puzzles.

Hunne too was a lucky boy in these days, for no matter how often or how long he hung upon Dora,
and claimed her as his own property, never once did the good-natured girl avoid or repulse
her little friend; but always lent herself to his wishes, and took so much pains to amuse him,
that it seemed as if she found her own pleasure in pleasing him. Mrs. Birkenfeld had persuaded
Aunt Ninette to leave Dora entirely at liberty both morning and evening, and when in the afternoon
she took her sewing and sat with the family under the apple-tree, she found that even shirt-making
might be an agreeable occupation, under such favorable circumstances as these.

One day Dora made a new riddle for Hunne; for indeed his "nut-cracker" one had become rather
an old story; yet he couldn't bear to give up riddle-giving. To his unspeakable joy this new
riddle had a triumphant experience, quite unprecedented in the family annals--no one could
guess it. This time nobody could turn him off with, "Oh, go away with that same old charade."
For as no one knew the answer, no one could laugh at the little questioner, and he and Dora
agreed not to give the slightest hint that might lead to the right guess, and so put an end
to this delightful state of things.

The riddle was this:

    "My first makes you cry--not for sorrow,
     For my second a spoon you may borrow,
     To my whole, you say, 'thank you--to-morrow.'"

What could it be? Julius said it was "Hot-tea, because if the tea is very hot and you try to
drink it, the tears start to your eyes, and then you cool it with a spoon, and you would like
to let it stand till to-morrow."

Hunne jumped for joy, crying "Wrong, wrong!"

Miss Hanenwinkel suggested "Plum-jam," because Hunne often cried when he couldn't have plums,
and everybody ate jam with a spoon, and if plum-jam was not on the supper-table to-night, it
was sure to be, to-morrow.

"Wrong! wrong!" cried Hunne again.

"Well, I guess Tear-ful," said Rolf; but that was even worse than the others.

"I think it may be Snow-drop," said the mother. "The sight of the snow makes you cry for joy,
and a spoon is used for your drops if you are ill, and you always want snowdrops to-morrow."

Mamma had failed! "Not Snowdrops; no!" screamed Hunne, almost beside himself with delight.

"I guess it is ice-cream," said Mr. Birkenfeld. "Ice makes me cry sometimes, it is so cold.
Cream certainly needs a spoon, and I have often heard the cry, 'To-morrow please,' when ice-cream
has been mentioned."

Hunne spun round with delight. "No, no!" he shouted. It was almost too good to be true, that
his father should have missed it too. He scampered about crying out to everyone, "Guess! guess!"

Rolf was really vexed not to be able to see through this simple little "Hunne riddle" as he
called it; and was mortified to perceive that he had made a worse guess than any one.

Meantime the days were passing. One morning at breakfast Uncle Titus said,

"My dear Ninette, our last week is drawing near. What should you say if we put off going home,
another fortnight? I feel remarkably well here, no dizziness at all, and an extraordinary increase
of strength in my legs!"

"You show it in your looks, my dear Titus--" said his wife tenderly, "you look ten years younger,
at the very least, than when we came here."

"And to my mind, this way of living has done you a world of good too, my dear Ninette;" replied
he, "It seems to me that you find much less to lament over of late."

"Everything is so different," she answered; "It seems to me that everything has changed. The
noise of the children even doesn't seem the same, now that I know each one of them. I must
say that I am very glad that we didn't leave here that first week; I feel the loss of something
pleasant now when I do not hear the children's voices, and I am always a little uneasy if it
is perfectly quiet in the garden."

"It is just so with me," said Uncle Titus, "and I cannot get through an evening with any satisfaction
unless that bright boy has been in to see me, full of impatience to tell me what he has been
about during the day, and eager to hear the enigmas I have to give him. It is a perfect pleasure
to have such a young fellow about one."

"My dear Titus, you are growing younger every day. We will certainly stay longer," said Aunt
Ninette decidedly, "just as long as we conveniently can. I'm sure even the doctor did not expect
such good results from one country visit; it is almost miraculous!"

Dora lost no time in carrying the enchanting news of this decision to Paula, for in her inmost
heart she had been very unhappy at the thought of going away so soon. How could she live, away
from all this dear family with whom she had learned to feel so entirely at home? She thought
that when the day of separation came her heart would surely break.

When the good news of Dora's longer stay among them spread through the family, there was general
rejoicing, and the little girl was in danger of being fairly hugged to death by her friends.

That evening after the children were all safely in bed, and Miss Hanenwinkel had withdrawn
to her own room, Mr. and Mrs. Birkenfeld sat together upon the sofa, talking. This was the
only quiet time that they could count upon in the course of the day, when they could talk over
the needs, the pleasures and the pains, of their large and busy family. They were talking now
about the decision of their new friends, and Mrs. Birkenfeld expressed her great satisfaction
with it, adding,

"I cannot bear to think of losing Dora. She has grown very dear to me. What a real blessing
that child has been in the family! She leaves her mark wherever she goes, and always for good.
Wherever I turn I find some new evidence of her beneficial influence. And to me personally
she is particularly attractive; I can't understand exactly why, but whenever I look into her
eyes, I feel as if I had known her for a long time, and as if we had been sympathetic friends
in days gone by."

"Ah, my dear wife, how often I have heard you say that whenever you feel a particular friendship
for any one. I recollect perfectly that after we had known each other a little while, you said
it seemed to you as if we had been intimately acquainted some time before."

"Well, suppose I did, you most incorrigible tease," said his wife, "you cannot convince me
to the contrary, nor can you take away the fact that Dora is dear and delightful, not only
to me, but to all the family besides. Paula goes about beaming like the sunshine, and with
no trace of her usual discontent. Jule pulls off his own riding-boots without stirring up the
whole house about it; Rolf is so full of interest in his pursuits that he has not a moment
of idleness all day long; Lili has developed a love for music and a talent for playing the
piano, that we never dreamed she possessed; and little Hunne has become so gentle and so contented
at his games, that it is a pleasure just to look at the child."

"I think too," said Mr. Birkenfeld, "that it is because of Dora's being with us, that there
has been a cessation of those mischievous pranks that the twins were always at, and that kept
the house in a constant state of excitement."

"I have not the least doubt of it;" said his wife, "Dora has aroused in Lili an enthusiasm
for music, and all the child's lively energy is turned into that channel. Wili follows his
sister's lead, and they are both therefore so busy that they have not even a thought for mischief."

"Dora is certainly an uncommon child and I am very sorry she is to leave us so soon;" said
Mr. Birkenfeld regretfully.

"That is what is weighing upon my mind," said his wife, "I am constantly trying to devise some
plan for prolonging her stay still farther."

"No, no;" said her husband, decidedly, "we can't do anything about that. We don't know these
people well enough to try to influence their movements. They must go away now, but perhaps
next year we may see them here again."

Mrs. Birkenfeld sighed; there was a long winter to come, and there seemed to her to be but
little chance of the visit being repeated.

