Our men were nearly all directed towards the pike as if with the intention of entering the
breastworks through the gap there. I reasoned, however, that the hottest fire would be directed
where the crowd was densest, and I veered off in an effort to get away from there. While running
rapidly with body bent over and head down, after the involuntary manner of men retreating under
fire, I came into collision with a man running in a similar attitude, but headed towards the
gap. The shock was so great that it knocked him down and pretty well knocked the wind out of
me. Just as we met, a rebel shell exploded close over our heads and as his body was rolling
over on the ground, I caught a glimpse of his upturned face and, in its horrified look, read
his belief that it was the shell that had hit him. The idea was so comical that I laughed,
but my laugh was of very brief duration when I found myself so much disabled that I was rapidly
falling behind. With panting lungs and trembling legs I toiled along, straining every nerve
to reach the breastwork, but when it was yet only a few steps away, even with life itself at
stake, I could go no farther, and thought my time had come. My brave mother, the daughter of
a soldier of 1812 and the granddaughter of a Revolutionary soldier had said, when I had appealed
to the pride in her military ancestry so successfully that she had consented to my enlistment,
"Well, if you must go, don't get shot in the back." I thought of her and of that saying and
faced about to take it in front. While I was slowly turning, my eyes swept the plain in the
direction of the pike. There were comparatively few of our men in my immediate vicinity, but
over towards the pike the ground was thickly covered with them, extending from the breastworks
nearly a hundred yards along the pike, and in some places so densely massed as to interfere
with each other's movements. The fleetest footed had already crossed the breastwork and all
those outside were so thoroughly winded that none of them could go any faster than a slow,
labored trot. The rear was brought up by a ragged fringe of tired stragglers who were walking
doggedly along, apparently with as much unconcern as if no rebels were in sight. The rebel
ranks were almost as badly demoralized by pursuit as ours by retreat. Their foremost men had
already overtaken our rearmost stragglers and were grabbing hold of them to detain them.

Suddenly my attention was riveted so intently on the nearest rebel to myself that in watching
him I became oblivious to all other surroundings, for I thought I was looking at the man who
would shoot me. He was coming directly towards me, on a dog trot, less than fifty yards away,
and was in the act of withdrawing the ramrod from the barrel of his gun. When this action was
completed, while holding the gun and ramrod together in one hand, he stopped to prime and then,
much to my relief, aimed and fired at a little squad of our men close on my right. I heard
the bullet strike and an exclamation from the man who was hit. The rebel then started to trot
forward again, at the same time reaching back with one hand to draw a fresh cartridge. By this
time having rested a little, I looked back over my shoulder towards the breastwork. I noticed
that there was a ditch on the outside and the sight of this ditch brought renewed hope. With
the fervent prayer, into which was poured all the intense longing for more life, natural to
my vigorous young manhood, "O, God, give me strength to reach that ditch," I turned and staggered
forward. I fell headlong into the ditch just as our line there opened fire. The roar of their
guns was sweeter than music and I chuckled with satisfaction as I thought, "Now, Rebs, your
turn has come and you must take your medicine." I lay as I fell, panting for breath, until
I had caught a little fresh wind and then began to crawl around to take a peep and see how
the rebels were getting along.

When my body was lengthwise of the ditch I happened to raise my head and was astounded by the
sight of the rebels coming into the ditch between me and the pike, the nearest of them only
a few yards away. They were so tired that they seemed scarcely able to put one foot before
the other and many of them stopped at the ditch utterly unable to go a step farther until they
had rested. It was only the strongest among them who were still capable of the exertion of
climbing over the breastwork. If the men behind that work had stood fast, not one of those
tired rebels would ever have crossed that parapet alive. Transfixed with amazement, I watched
them until the thought flashed into my mind that in an instant some of their comrades would
come in on top of me and I would be pinned down with a bayonet. The thought of a bayonet thrust
was so terrifying, that it spurred me into a last effort, and with the mental ejaculation,
"I never will die in that way," I sprang on top of the breastwork. Crouching there an instant
with both hands resting on the headlog, I gave one startled look over my shoulder. The impression
received was that if I fell backward they would catch me on their bayonets. Then followed a
brief period of oblivion for which I can not account.

With returning consciousness I found myself lying in the ditch on the inside of the breastwork,
trampled under the feet of the men, and with no knowledge whatever of how I got there. It is
possible that I was taken for a rebel when I sprang up so suddenly on top of the breastwork
and that I was knocked there by a blow from one of our own men. I was lying across the body
of a wounded man who had been hit by a bullet which, entering at his cheek, had passed out
the back of his head. He was unconscious, but still breathing. The breast of my coat was smeared
with the blood from his wound. The press was so great that I could not get on my feet, but
in a desperate effort to avoid being trampled to death managed in some way to crawl out between
the legs of the men to the bank of the ditch, where I lay utterly helpless with burning lungs
still panting for breath. My first thought was of the rebels I had seen crossing the breastwork,
and I looked toward the pike. I had crossed our line close to a cotton-gin that stood just
inside our works and the building obstructed my view except directly along the ditch and for
a short distance in rear of it.

Our men were all gone from the ditch to within a few feet of where I was lying. A little beyond
the other end of the building stood two cannon pointing towards me with a group of rebels at
the breech of each one of them trying to discharge it. They were two of our own guns that had
been captured before they had been fired by our gunners and were still loaded with the double
charges of canister intended for the rebels. Fortunately the gunners had withdrawn the primers
from the vents and had taken them along when they ran away and the rebels were having difficulty
in firing the guns. As I looked they were priming them with powder from their musket cartridges,
and no doubt intended to fire a musket into this priming. Just then I was too feeble to make
any effort to roll my body over behind the cover of the building, but shut my eyes and set
my jaws to await the outcome where I was lying. After waiting for some time and not hearing
the cannon, I opened my eyes to see what was the matter. The rebels were all gone and the ditch
was filled with our men as far as I could see. If the rebels had succeeded in firing those
two cannon they would have widened the breach in our line so much farther to our left that
it might have proved fatal, since the two brigades holding our line, from the vicinity of the
cotton-gin to the river, had each but a single regiment of reserves. The men in the ditch at
my side, when I first saw the cannon, were so busily engaged in keeping out the rebels who
filled the ditch on the other side of the parapet, that I do not believe they ever saw the
two cannon posted to rake the ditch. Their conduct was most gallant.

For a brief period the rebels held possession of the inside of our breastworks along the entire
front of Strickland's brigade on the west side, and of Reilly's brigade down to the cotton-gin
on the east side of the pike; and the ground in their possession was the key to Cox's entire
position. This break in our line was identical in extent with the front covered by the great
body of Wagner's men in falling back, and it was occasioned by the panic and confusion created
by Wagner's men in crossing the breastworks. Cox's men, along this part of our line, seem to
have lost their nerve at the sight of the rebel army coming and on account of their own helpless
condition. They could not fire a single shot while Wagner's men were between themselves and
the rebels. The first rebels crossed the breastworks side by side with the last of Wagner's men.

At some point a break started and then it spread rapidly until it reached the men who were
too busily occupied in firing on the rebels to become affected by the panic. Opdycke's brigade
was directly in the rear of where this break occurred. At the sound of the firing in front,
Opdycke had deployed his brigade astride the pike, ready for instant action, and as soon as
he saw that a stampede was coming from the breastworks, without waiting for any order, he instantly
led his brigade forward. His brigade restored the break in our line, charging straight through
the rout, after a desperate hand-to-hand encounter in which Opdycke himself, first firing all
the shots in his revolver and then breaking it over the head of a rebel, snatched up a musket
and fought with that for a club. It is true that hundreds of brave men from the four broken
brigades of Conrad, Lane, Reilly, and Strickland, who were falling back, when they met Opdycke's
advancing line, saw that the position would not be given up without a desperate struggle and
faced about and fought as gallantly as any of Opdycke's men in recovering and afterwards in
holding our line; but if Opdycke's brigade had not been where it was, the day undoubtedly would
have closed with the utter rout and ruin of our four divisions of infantry south of the river.
When General Cox met Opdycke on the field immediately after the break was restored, he took
him by the hand and fervently exclaimed, "Opdycke, that charge saved the day."

The front line of Strickland's brigade extended along the foot of the garden of Mr. Carter,
the owner of the plantation on which the battle was fought. The reserve line was posted behind
the fence at the other end of the garden, close to the Carter residence, where the ground was
a little higher, and sixty-five yards in rear of the main line. This reserve line, with the
fence for a basis, had constructed a rude barricade as a protection against bullets which might
come over the front line. When Opdycke's demi-brigade, charging on the west side of the pike,
came to this barricade, it halted there, probably mistaking it for our main line. The rebels
in the garden fell back behind the cover of Strickland's breastwork and during the remainder
of the battle, on this part of the field, the opposing lines maintained these relative positions.
Every attempt, made by either side to cross the garden, met with a bloody repulse. The body
of one dead rebel was lying between the barricade and the Carter house and this body no doubt
indicated the high water mark reached by Hood's assault. It is only fair to the gallant rebels,
who penetrated our line, to state that Opdycke's charge was made too promptly to give them
any time to recover their wind, and that therefore in the hand-to-hand struggle, they were
laboring under the great disadvantage of the physical fatigue already described.

Returning to my personal experiences: when I had rested enough to be able to sit up, I found
at my feet a can of coffee standing on the smouldering embers of a small camp fire, and beside
it a tin plate filled with hard tack and fried bacon. Some soldier was evidently ready to eat
his supper, when he was hastily called into line by the opening of the battle in front. I first
took a delicious drink out of the coffee can and then helped myself to a liberal portion of
the hard tack and bacon, and while sitting there eating and drinking, incidentally watched
the progress of the fighting. By the time I had finished I was so fully rested and refreshed
that thereafter I was able to shout encouragement to the men fighting in my vicinity as loud
as any other company commander.

Along that part of the line only the breastwork separated the combatants. On our side we had
five or six ranks deep, composed of the original line, the reserves, and Conrad's men, all
mixed up together without any regard to their separate organizations. The front rank did nothing
but fire. The empty guns were passed back to those in rear who reloaded them. The rear rank
was kneeling with guns at a ready. If a rebel raised his head above the breastwork, down it
would instantly go with one or more bullets through it, fired by these rear rank men.

In this close fighting the advantage was all on our side, for our front rank men, standing
up close against the perpendicular face of the breastwork on our side, could poke the muzzle
of a gun over the headlog and by elevating the breech could send a plunging shot among the
rebels who filled the outside ditch and expose for an instant only the hand and a part of the
arm that discharged the gun. But on account of the convex face of the work on their side the
rebels could not reach us with their fire without exposing themselves above the breastwork.
They kept up the vain struggle until long after dark, but finally elevated their hats on the
ends of their muskets above the breastwork, as a signal to us, and called over that if we would
stop shooting they would surrender. When our firing ceased, many of them came over and surrendered,
but many more took advantage of the darkness and of the confusion created by their comrades
in getting over the breastwork to slip back to their own lines. Soon after the firing had ceased
the Sixty-fourth Ohio reformed its broken ranks a few steps in rear of the breastwork and just
east of the cotton-gin. I did not learn all the facts that night, but when they came out later,
it transpired that every man in my company, save one, who had escaped the casualties of the
battle, fell into line. A thousand-dollar substitute had fled to the town where he hid in a
cellar. He went to sleep there and awoke the next morning inside the rebel lines. He was sent
south to a prison and when returning north after the close of the war lost his life in the
explosion of the Steamer Sultana.

I had lost my overcoat, but had never let go the grip on my sword. Some of my men had dropped
their knapsacks or blanket rolls, but every one of them had his gun and cartridge box. They
were all in high spirits over their own escape and over the part they had played in the final
repulse of the rebels, and were talking and laughing over their various adventures in the greatest
good humor. The condition of my company was typical of the condition of all the other companies
in the regiment as I saw, while passing along the line inquiring into the fate of brother officers
and other friends. I also learned in a conversation the next day with Major Coulter, who had
been my old captain, and who was acting that night as assistant adjutant-general of the brigade,
that every other regiment of the brigade had reformed in rear of the breastwork in the same
way as the Sixty-fourth Ohio, and that the brigade as an organization, had marched from the
vicinity of the cotton-gin when the order to retreat was executed that night.

I never heard from any source any intimation contrary to the truth as I have stated it until
I read in 1882, with the most indignant surprise, in Cox's book on this campaign, then recently
published, his statement that the brigades of Lane and Conrad rallied at the river but were
not again carried into action. When Cox made that statement he was more concerned in patching
up that fatal gap in the battle line of his own command without any outside assistance, than
he was in ascertaining the truth, and he took that way to dispose of two entire brigades. In
his first official report, for he made two reports, Cox went to the other extreme for he then
stated that on the approach of the enemy the two brigades in front had retired in a leisurely
manner inside his line. "Leisurely" is so good in that connection that it always brings a smile
whenever I recall the "leisurely" manner in which Conrad's brigade made its way back to Cox's
line. Moreover in a letter to General Wagner, written two days after the battle, and inclosing
a copy of a letter to General Thomas, urging the promotion of Colonel Opdycke, Cox took occasion
to express the opinion he then held, based on his personal observation, of the conduct of Wagner's
entire division:

     I desire also to express my admiration of the gallantry of your whole
     command. Indeed an excess of bravery kept the two brigades a little
     too long in front, so that the troops at the main line could not get
     to firing upon the advancing enemy till they were uncomfortably near.

Soon after the regiment had reformed one of the drafted men of my company was brought in from
the ditch outside mortally wounded. No doubt he had reached the ditch in too exhausted a condition
to climb over the breastwork and had lain out among the rebels where he had been repeatedly
hit by our own fire. The pain of his wounds had made him crazy, for he would not talk, but
kept crawling about on all fours moaning in agony. There were a few men missing from the company
of whom their comrades could give no account. Moved by the fate of the drafted man, I crossed
the breastwork to search outside, if perchance I might find one or more of the missing ones
lying there wounded and bring them aid. I went to a gun of the Sixth Ohio battery, posted a
short distance east of the cotton-gin, to get over; and as I stepped up into the embrasure,
the sight that met my eyes was most horrible even in the dim starlight. The mangled bodies
of the dead rebels were piled up as high as the mouth of the embrasure, and the gunners said
that repeatedly when the lanyard was pulled the embrasure was filled with men, crowding forward
to get in, who were literally blown from the mouth of the cannon. Only one rebel got past the
muzzle of that gun and one of the gunners snatched up a pick leaning against the breastwork
and killed him with that. Captain Baldwin of this battery has stated that as he stood by one
of his guns, watching the effect of its fire, he could hear the smashing of the bones when
the missiles tore their way through the dense ranks of the approaching rebels.

While I was cautiously making my way around one side of that heap of mangled humanity, a wounded
man lying at the bottom, with head and shoulders protruding, begged me for the love of Christ
to pull the dead bodies off him. The ditch was piled promiscuously with the dead and badly
wounded and heads, arms, and legs were sticking out in almost every conceivable manner. The
ground near the ditch was so thickly covered with bodies that I had to pick my steps carefully
to avoid treading on some of them. The air was filled with the moans of the wounded; and the
pleadings for water and for help of some of those who saw me were heartrending. While walking
along towards the pike to get in the pathway in which my company had come back, I passed two
rebel flags lying on the ground close together. It did not occur to me that I would be entitled
to any credit for picking up the flags under such circumstances, but I thought that if I did
not find what I was looking for I would return that way and take the flags in with me. I had
passed on a few steps when I heard a man behind me exclaim, "Look out, there!" Thinking he
meant me, I turned hastily and saw him pitch the two flags over the breastwork. I presume that
the men inside the work who got possession of the flags were afterwards sent to Washington
with them and possibly may have received medals for their capture. I felt so uneasy while outside,
lest the rebels should make some movement that would start our line to firing again that I
kept close to the breastwork, and as it was soon manifest that the chance in the darkness of
finding a friend, where the bodies were so many, was too remote to justify the risk I was taking,
I returned within our line.

From what I saw while outside I have always believed that General Hood never stated his losses
fully. Those losses were in some respects without precedent in either army on any other battle-field
of the war. He had five generals killed, six wounded and one captured on our breastworks, and
the slaughter of field and company officers, as well as of the rank and file, was correspondingly
frightful. It was officially reported of Quarles's brigade that the ranking officer in the
entire brigade at the close of the battle was a captain. Of the nine divisions of infantry
composing Hood's army, seven divisions got up in time to take part in the assault and at least
six of these seven divisions were as badly wrecked as was Pickett's division in its famous
charge at Gettysburg.

Our loss was officially stated as two thousand, three hundred, twenty-six men and almost the
whole of it was due to the presence of the two brigades in front of the main line. Casement's
brigade, to the left of Reilly's, sustained a very determined assault which was repulsed with
a loss of only three killed and sixteen wounded. But the action of Casement's men was not hampered
by the presence of any of Wagner's men in their front and they could open fire as soon as the
rebels came within range. If the brigades of Reilly and Strickland could have opened fire under
the same conditions they would have done just as well as Casement's brigade. A critical investigation
of our losses will conclusively demonstrate that at Franklin the violation of the military
axiom never to post a small body of troops in a way to hamper the action of the main body was
directly responsible for the unnecessary loss of more than two thousand of our soldiers. That
was the frightful butchers' bill our army had to pay for a bit of incompetent generalship.

How was it possible for veteran generals of the Atlanta campaign to make such a gross blunder?

In his official report Cox states that at two o'clock the enemy came into full view and he
reported that fact and the position of the two brigades in front of his breastworks to Schofield
and received his orders with reference to holding the position; but he does not state what
those orders were. Cox made that report and received those orders in a personal conference
with Schofield when they must have fully discussed the situation, and Cox's peculiar statement
in this connection seems to carry a covert threat, as if he had said to Schofield, "If you
attempt to hold me responsible for the blunder I will tell what those orders of yours were."

In a written account furnished me by Captain Whitesides, Wagner's assistant adjutant-general,
he states that about half past two o'clock Wagner ordered him to see Colonel Lane and find
out what was going on in his front. From his position on the pike at the gap in the breastworks
Wagner could see for himself Stewart's corps forming in Conrad's front, as already described,
but his view of Lane's front was obstructed by the large number of trees and by the inequalities
of the ground on the west side of the pike. Colonel Lane told Whitesides that Hood was forming
his army in battle order and that without any doubt it was his intention to attack in force;
that the position occupied by the two brigades was faulty, being without any support on either
flank, and unless they were withdrawn they would be run over by the enemy or compelled to fall
back to the breastworks under fire. On reporting Lane's statement to Wagner, Whitesides was
directed to find General Stanley, the corps commander, and tell him what Lane had said. He
found Stanley with Schofield at the house of Doctor Cliffe in the central part of the town,
where they could see nothing of what was going on in front, and reported to them as stated
above. He then returned to Wagner who, so far as he knew, received no further orders.

The report of Cox and the statement of Whitesides indicate that both Cox and Wagner believed
that Hood intended to attack but that neither of them would take the responsibility, with Schofield
in easy communication, of withdrawing the two brigades without his sanction from the position
to which they had been assigned by his order. They reported to him the situation and then waited,
and waited in vain, for him to take action.

In a personal interview Doctor Cliffe told me that Schofield came to his house about nine o'clock
for breakfast and afterwards kept his headquarters there until the battle began; that after
breakfast he retired to a bedroom where he slept until noon or shortly after; that a short
time before the battle began Cox was there in conference with Schofield and staff officers
kept coming and going until the fighting began; that Stanley was there with Schofield and they
were waiting for their dinner; that they told him there would be no battle that day because
Hood would not attack breastworks but that after dinner they would ride on to Nashville together
and the army would follow after dark.

Stanley and Cliffe had been schoolboys together in Wayne County, Ohio, and as Cliffe was a
well known Union man, it was supposed to be unsafe for him to remain in Franklin and he was
invited to accompany Schofield and Stanley on their ride to Nashville. General Schofield has
claimed that he scored a great success in his campaign against Hood and that this success was
largely due to his intimate knowledge of Hood's character, gained while they were classmates
at West Point, which enabled him to foresee what Hood would do and then make the proper dispositions
to defeat him. At Franklin he relied so confidently on his ability to foretell what Hood's
action would be that he not only wholly neglected to give any personal attention to the preparations
for assault which Hood was making in plain sight of our front but he would not give any heed
to the reports brought him by those who had seen these preparations. It was his belief, based
on his intimate knowledge of Hood's character, that Hood was making an ostentatious feint to
mask his real intention of executing a flank movement, for in a telegram to General Thomas,
dated at three o'clock, Schofield informed Thomas that Hood was in his front with about two
corps and seemed prepared to cross the river above and below.

He has tried to escape all personal responsibility for the blunder by the weak statement that
he was across the river when the battle began. Even if that statement were true, and it is
directly contradicted by the disinterested statement of Doctor Cliffe as well as by an abundance
of other reliable evidence, both direct and circumstantial, there is no possible escape for
Schofield from the inexorable logic of the situation. For two hours Hood was engaged in preparations
for assault in plain sight of thousands of our soldiers. What was Schofield doing those two
hours? If he saw anything of Hood's preparations he showed incompetence by his failure to promptly
withdraw the two brigades from the blundering position to which he had assigned them. If he
saw nothing of Hood's preparations, it was only because of a criminal neglect of his duty at
a time when the perilous position of his army, with a greatly superior rebel army in its front
and a river at its back, demanded his utmost vigilance.

It was said that General Stanley was sick but he spent the day with Schofield and he also,
having had West Point experience of Hood's character, concurred fully in Schofield's belief
that Hood would not assault. So great was their delusion in this respect that it could not
be shaken by the reports made by their subordinates, and nothing short of the loud roar of
the opening battle was able to arouse them into giving any personal attention to the situation.
Then at last, when it was too late to do anything to remedy a blunder which already had gone
so far that it must go on to its full culmination, Schofield and Stanley left the house of
Doctor Cliffe. Stanley hurried to the front which he reached just as Opdycke's brigade was
starting forward. Spurring his horse to the front of this brigade, he personally led it in
its famous charge. A little later his horse was shot under him and he got a bullet through
the back of his neck as he was rising to his feet. It was a flesh wound that bled freely, but
Stanley declined to leave the front until after the fighting was all over. He then went to
the rear to have his wound dressed and after his departure Cox was the senior general on the
battle-field.

When Stanley started for the front Schofield started for the rear, and the most charitable
construction that can be placed upon his action is that he interpreted the sound of the firing
to mean that the expected flank movement had begun and that his duty called him across the
river to provide against that flank movement. His disturbed mental condition at that time is
disclosed by the fact that he abandoned in the room of Cliffe's house, where he had slept,
his overcoat, gloves, and a package containing the official dispatches he had received from
General Thomas. These articles were not reclaimed until our army returned to Franklin after
the victory at Nashville and in the meantime Mrs. Cliffe saved the coat from being taken by
some needy rebel by wearing it herself and she also safely kept the gloves and dispatches.

