Such, I fancied, was the proud language of that melancholy music. Had I been other than I was--nay,
had I listened to the burden under other circumstances and in another place--I should most
probably have felt nothing but sympathy for the musician. As it was, I can not describe my
feelings. All my racking doubts and miseries returned. The tone of triumph which the strain
conveyed wrought upon me like an indignity.  It seemed to denote that "foregone conclusion"
which had been my cause of apprehension so long. Could it be then that Julia was really guilty?
Could she have given William Edgerton so much encouragement that triumph and exultation should
still mingle with his farewell accents of despair? Ah! what fantasies  preyed upon my soul;
haunted the smallest movements of my mind; conjured up its spectres, and gave bitterness to
its every beverage! When I thought thus of Julia, I rose cautiously  from my seat, approached
the bed where she was lying, and gazed steadily, though with the wildest thrill of emotion,
into her face. I verily believe had she not been sleeping at that moment--sleeping beyond question--she
would have shared the fate of

"The gentle lady wedded to the Moor."

I was in the mood for desperate things.

But she slept--her cheek upon her arm--pale, but oh! how beautiful! and looking, oh! how pure!
Her breathing was as tranquil and regular as that of an infant. I felt, while I gazed, that
hers must be the purity of an infant also. I turned from beholding her, as the renewed notes
of the musician once more ascended to the chamber. I again took my seat at the window and concealed
myself behind the curtain. Here I had been concealed but a few moments, when I heard a rustling
in the branches of the tree. Meanwhile, the music again ceased. I peered cautiously from behind
the drapery, and fancied I beheld a dark object in the tree. It might be one of its branches,
but I had not been struck by it before. I waited in breathless watchfulness. I saw it move.
Its shape was that of a man.  An exulting feeling of violence filled my breast. I rose stealthily,
went into the dressing-room, and took up one of my pistols which lay on the toilet, and which
I had that afternoon prepared with a travelling charge.

"A brace of bullets," I muttered to myself, "will bring out another sort of music from this
rare bird."

With this murderous purpose I concealed myself once more behind the curtain. The figure was
sufficiently distinct for aim.  The window was not more than twelve or fourteen paces from
the tree. My nerves were now as steady as if I had been about to perform the most ordinary
action. What then prevented me? What stayed my arm? A single thonght--a momentary recollection
of an event which had taken place in my boyhood.  What a providence that it should have occurred
to me at that particular moment. The circumstance was this.

When first sent to school I had been frequently taken at advantage by a bigger boy. He had
twice my strength--he took a strong dislike for me--perhaps, because I was unwilling to pay
him that deference, which, as school-bully, he extorted from all others;--and he drubbed me
accordingly, whenever an opportunity occurred. My resistance was vain, and only stimulated
him to increased brutality. One day he was lying upon the grass, beneath an oak which stood
in the centre of a common on which we usually played. It happened that I drew near him unperceived.
In approaching him I had no purpose of assault or violence. But the circumstance of my nearing
him without being seen, suggested to my mind a sudden thought of revenging all my previous
injuries. I felt bitterness and hate enough, had I possessed the strength, to have slain a
dozen. I do not know that I had any design to slay him--to revenge myself was certainly my
wish. Of death probably I had no idea.  I looked about me for the agent of my vengeance. A
pile of old brick which had formed the foundations of a dwelling which had stood on the spot,
and which had been burned, conveniently presented itself to my eye. I possessed myself of as
large a fragment as my little hand could grasp; I secured a second as a dernier resort. Slowly
and slily--I may add, basely--I approached him from behind, levelled the brick at his head,
and saw the blood fly an instant after the contact. He was stunned by the blow, staggered up,
however, with his eyes blinded by blood, and moved after me like a drunken man. I receded slowly,
lifting the remaining fragment which I held, intending, if he approached me, to repeat the blow.

On a sudden he fell forward sprawling. Then I thought him dead, and for the first time the
dreadful consciousness of my crime in its true character, came to my mind. I can not describe
the agony of fear and horror which filled my soul. He did not die, but he was severely hurt.

The recollection of that event--of what I then suffered--came to me involuntarily, as I was
about to perform a second similar crime. I shuddered with the recollection of the past, and
shrunk, under the equal force of shame and conscience, from the performance of a deed which,
otherwise, I should probably have committed in the brief time which I employed for reflection.
With a feeling of nervous horror I put the weapon aside, and sinking once more into the chair
beside the window I bore with what fortitude I might, the renewal of the accursed but touching
strains that vexed me.

William Edgerton was a master of the flute. Often before, when we were the best friends, had
I listened with delight, while he compelled it into discourse of music wild and somewhat incoherent
still: his present performance had now attained more continuousness and character. It was still
mournful, but its sorrows rose and fell naturally, in compliance with the laws of art. I listened
till I could listen no longer. Human patience must have its limits. My wife still slept. I
descended the stairs, opened the door with as much cautiousness as possible, and prepared to
grapple the musician and haul him into the light.

It might be Edgerton or not. I was morally sure it was.  By grappling with him, in such a situation,
I should bring the affair to a final issue, though it might not be a murderous one.  But of
that I did not think; I went forward to do something; what that something was to be, it was
left for time and chance to determine. But, suddenly, as I opened the door, the music ceased.
Stepping into the yard, I heard the sound as of a falling body. I naturally concluded that
he had heard the  opening of the door, and had suffered himself to drop down to the ground.
I took for granted that he had descended on the opposite side of the yard and within the enclosure
of a neighbor. I leaped the fence, hurried to the tree, traversed the grounds, and found nobody.
I returned, reached my own premises, and found the gate open which opened upon the street.
He had gone then in that direction. I turned into this street, posted with all speed to the
corner of the square and met only the watchman. I asked, but he had seen nobody. The street
was perfectly quiet, I returned, reascended to my chamber, found Julia now awake, and evidently
much agitated. She had arisen in my absence, and was only about to re-enter the bed when I
rushed up stairs.

What was I to think? What fear? I was too conscious of the suspicious nature of my thoughts
and fears to suffer myself to ask any questions--and she, unhappily for both of us--she said
nothing. Had she but spoken--had she but uttered the natural inquiry--"Did you hear that strange
music, husband?"--how much easier had been her extrication. But she was silent, and I was again
let loose upon a wide sea of fears and doubts and damnable apprehensions. Once more, and now
with a feeling which would not have made me forbear the use of any weapon, however deadly,
I re-examined my own enclosure, but in vain. The horrible thought which possessed me was that
he had even penetrated the dwelling while I was seeking him in the street; that they had met;
and how was I to know the degree of tenderness which had marked their meeting and sweetness
to their adieus!

CHAPTER XXXIX.

THE NEW HOME.

With these revived suspicions, half stifled, but still struggling in my bosom, did I commence
my journey for the West.  My arrangements were comprehensive, but simple. I had procured a
second-hand travelling carriage and fine pair of horses from an acquaintance, at a very moderate
price--a price which, I well knew, I should easily get for them again on reaching my place
of destination. I was my own driver. I had no money to spare in purchasing what might be dispensed
with. A single trunk contained all the necessary luggage of my wife and self. What was not
absolutely needed by the wayside was sent on by water.  This included my books, desks, Julia's
painting materials, and such other articles of the household, as were of cost and not bulky.
I had previously written--as I may have stated already--to my friend Kingsley. He was to procure
me  temporary lodgings in the town of M---. I left much to his judgment and experience. He
had once before been in Alabama and having interests there, had made himself familiar with
everything in that region, necessary to be known. I put myself very much in his hands. I was
too anxious to get away to urge any difficulties or make any troublesome requisitions. He was
simply to procure me an abiding-place in some private family--if possible in the suburbs--until
I should be able to look about me. Economy was insisted upon. I had precious little money to
spare, and even the spoils of my one night's visit to the  gaming-house, were of no small help
in sustaining me in my  determination to remove. I had not applied them previously. I confess
to a feeling of shame when I was compelled by necessity at last to use them. I had saved something
already from my professional income, and I procured an advance on my furniture which was left
for sale. I had calculated my expenses in removing and for one year's residence in M--, and
was  prepared, so far as poor human foresight may prepare itself, to keep want from our doors
at least for that period. I trusted to good fortune, my own resources, and the notorious fact
that, at that day, there were few able lawyers in M--, to secure me an early and valuable practice.
I carried with me letters from the best men in the community I had left. But I carried with
me what was of more value than any letters, even though they be written in gold. I carried
with me methodical habits and an energy of character which would maintain my resolution, and
bear me through, to a safe conclusion, in any plan which I should contemplate. Industry and
perseverance are the giants that cast down forests, drain swamps, level mountains, and create
empires. I flattered myself that with these I had other and crowning qualities of intellect
and culture. Perhaps it may be admitted that I had. But of what avail were all when coupled
with the blind heart? Enough--I must not anticipate.

Filled with the exciting fancies engendered by the affair of the last night, I commenced my
journey. The day was a fine one; the sun cheery and bright without being oppressive; and soon,
gliding through the broad avenues, lined with noblest trees, which conducted us from the city
to the forests, we had the pleasant carol of birds, and the lively chirp of hopping insects.

I was always a lover of the woods; green shady dells, and winding walks amidst crowding foliage.
I cared little for mere flowers. A garden was never a desire in my mind. I could be pleased
to see and to smell, but I had no passion for its objects.  But the trees--the big, venerable
oaks, like patriarchs and priests; the lofty and swaggering pines in their green helmets, like
warriors of the feudal ages--these were forms that I could worship. I may say, I loved trees
with a real passion. Flowers, and the taste for flowers seemed to me always petty; but my instincts
led me to behold a sneaking and most impressive grandeur, in these old lords of the forest,
that had been the first, rising from the mighty mother to attest the wondrous strength of her
resources, and the teeming glories of her womb.

Now, however, they did not fill my soul with earnest reachings, as had ever been the case before.
They soothed me  somewhat, but the eyes of my mind were turned within. They looked only at
the prostration of that miserable heart which was torturing itself with vague, wild doubts--guessing
and conjecturing with an agonizing pain, and without the least hope of profit. I could not
drive from my thoughts, the vexing circumstances of the last night in the city; and, for the
first day of our journey, the hours moved with oppressive slowness. Objects which I had formerly
loved to contemplate and always found sweet and refreshing, now gave me little pleasure and
exacted little of my attention; and I reached our stopping-place for the night with a sense
of weariness and stupor which no mere fatigue of body, I well knew, could ever have occasioned.

But this could not last. The elasticity of my nature, joined with the absence of that one person
whom I had now learned to regard as my evil genius, soon enabled me to shake off the oppressive
doubts and sadness which fettered and enfeebled me.  Once more I began to behold the forests
with all the eyes of former delight and affection, and I was conscious, after the progress
of a day or two, of periods in which I entirely lost sight of William Edgerton and all my suspicions
in the sweet warmth of a fresh and pleasing contemplation.

Something of this--nay, perhaps, the most of it, was due to my wife herself. There was a change
in her air and manner which sensibly affected my heart. I had treated her coldly at first,
but she had not perceived it; at least she had not suffered it to influence her conduct; and
I was equally pleased and surprised to behold in her language, looks, and deportment, a degree
of life and buoyant animation, which reminded me of the very champagne exuberance and spirit
of her youth. Her eyes flashed with a sense of freedom. Her voice sounded with the silvery
clearness of one, who, long pent up in the limits of a dungeon, uses the first moment of escape
into the forests to delight himself with song. She seemed to have just thrown off a miserable
burden;--and, as for any grief--any sign of regret at leaving home and tics from which she
would not willingly part--there was not the slightest appearance of any such  feeling in her
mind, look, or manner. Kindly, considerately, and sweetly, and with a cheery smile in her eyes,
and a springing vigor in the accents of her voice, she strove to enliven the way and to expel
the gloom which she soon perceived had fastened itself upon my soul. Her own cares, if she
had any, seemed to be very slight, and were utterly lost in mine. She spoke of our new abiding-place
with a hearty confidence; that it would be at once a home of prosperity and peace; and, altogether
convinced me for the time that the sacrifice must be comparatively very small, which she had
made on leaving her birth-place. I very soon wondered that I should have fancied that William
Edgerton was ever more to her than the friend of her husband.

Our journey was slow but not tedious. Had our progress been only half so rapid, I should have
been satisfied. It was love alone that my heart wanted. I craved for nothing but the just requital
of my own passion. I had no complaint, no affliction, when I could persuade myself that I had
not thrown away my affections upon the ungrateful and undeserving. Assured now of the love
of the beloved one, all the intense devotion of my soul was re-awakened; and the deepest shadows
of the forest, gloomy and desolate as they were, along the waste tracts of Georgia and Alabama--in
that earlier day--enlivened by the satisfied spirit within, seemed no more than so many places
of retreat, where security and peace, combining in behalf of Love, had given him an exclusive
sovereignty.

The rude countryman encountered us, and his face beamed with cheerfulness and good humor. The
song of the black softened the toils of labor, in the unfinished clearings; and even the wild
red man, shooting suddenly from out the sylvan covert, wore in his visage of habitual gravity,
an air of resignation which took all harshness from his uncouth features.

Such, under the tuition of well-satisfied hearts, was our mutual experience of the long journey
which we had taken when we reached the end of it. This we did in perfect safety.  We found
our friend, Kingsley, prepared for and awaiting us.  He had procured us pleasant apartments
in a neat cottage in the suburbs, where we were almost to ourselves. Our landlady was an ancient
widow, without a family. She occupied but a single apartment in her house, and left the use
of the rest to her lodgers. This was an arrangrment with which I was particularly gratified.
Her cottage lay half way up on the side of a hill which was crowned with thick clumps of the
noblest trees. Long, winding, narrow foot-paths, carried us picturesquely to the summit, where
we had a bird's-eye view of the town below, the river beyond--now darting out from the woods
and now hiding securely beneath their umbrage--and fair, smooth, lawn-looking fields, which
glowed at the proper season with the myriad green and white pinnies of corn and cotton. At
the foot of the cottage lay a delightful shrubbery, which almost covered it up from sight.
It was altogether such a retreat as a hermit would desire. It reminded me somewhat of the lovely
spot which we had left. A pleasant walk of a mile lay between it and the town where I proposed
to practice, and this furnished a necessity for a certain degree of exercise, which, being
unavoidable, was of the most valuable kind. Altogether, Kingsley had executed his commission
with a taste and diligence which left me nothing to complain of.

He was delighted at my coming.

"You are nearer to me now," he said; "will be nearer at least when I get to Texas; and I do
not despair to see you making tracks after me when I go there."

"But when go you?"

"Not soon. I am in some trouble here. I am pleading and being impleaded. You are just come
in season to take up the cudgels for me. My landrights are disputed--my titles. You will have
something of a lawsuit to begin upon at your earliest leisure."

"Indeed! but what's the business?"

He gave me a statement of his affairs, placed his papers in my hands, and I found myself, on
inspecting them, engaged in a controversy which was likely to give me the opportunity which
I desired, of appearing soon in cases of equal intricacy and  interest. Kingsley had some ten
thousand dollars in land, the greater part of which was involved in questions of title and
pre-emption, presenting some complex features, and likely to  occasion bad blood among certain
trespassers whom it became our first duty to oust if possible. I was associated with a spirited
young lawyer of the place; a youth of great natural talent, keen, quick intellect, much readiness
of resource, yet little experienee and less reading. Like the great mass of our western men,
however, he was a man to improve. He had no self-conceit--did not delude himself with the idea
that he knew as much as his neighhor; and, consequently, was pretty certain to increase in
wisdom with increase of years. He had few prejudices to get over, and though he knew his strength,
he also knew his weakness. He felt the instinct of natural talent, but he did not deceive himself
on the subject of his deficient knowledge.  He was willing to learn whenever he could find
a teacher.  His name was Wharton. I took to him at once. He was an ardent, manly fellow--frank
as a boy--could laugh and weep in the same hour, and yet was as firm in his principles, as
if he could neither laugh nor weep. As an acquaintance he was an acquisition.

Kingsley was delighted to see me, though somewhat wondering that I should give up the practice
at home, where I was doing so well, to break ground in a region where I was utterly unknown.
He gave me little trouble, however, in accounting to him for this movement. It was not difficult
to persuade him--nay, he soon persuaded himself--that something of my present course was due
to his own counsel and suggestion. To a man, like himself, to whom mere transition was pleasure,
it needed no argument to show that my resolve was right.

"Who the d--l," he exclaimed, "would like always to be in the same place? Such a person is
a mere cipher. We establish an intellectual superiority when we show ourselves superior to
place. A genuine man is always a citizen of the world. It is your vegetable man that can not
go far without grumbling, finding fault with all he sees, talking of comforts and such small
matters, and longing to get home again. Such a man puts me in mind of every member of the cow
family that I ever knew.  He is never at peace with himself or the world, but always groaning
and thrusting out his horns, until he can get back to his old range, and revel in his native
marsh, joint-grass, and cane-tops. Englishmen are very much of this breed. They go abroad,
grumble as they go, and if they can not carry their cane-tops with them, afflict the whole
world with their  lamentations. I take it for granted, Clifford, that this step to Alabama,
is simply a step toward Texas. Your next will be to New Orleans, and then, presto, we shall
see you on the Sabine."

"I hope not," said my wife. "You have got us into such comfortable quarters here, Mr. Kingsley,
that I hope you will do nothing to tempt my husband farther. Go farther and fare worse, you
know. Let well enough alone."

"Oh. I beseech you!--two proverbs at a time will be fatal to one or other of us. Perhaps both.
But he can not fare worse by going to Texas."

"He will do well enough here."

"Perhaps."

"Recover your lands, for example, as a beginning."

"Ah! now you would bribe me. That is certainly a suggestion  to make me keep my tongue, at
least until the verdict is rendered. 'Till then, you know, I shall make no permanent remove
myself."

"But do you mean to go before the trial?" I asked.

"Yes, for a couple of months or so. I should only get into some squabble with my opponents
by remaining here; and I may be preparing for all of us by going in season. I will look out
for a township, Mrs. Clifford, on the edge of some beautiful prairie, and near some beautiful
river. Your husband has a passion for water prospects, I can tell you, and would become a misanthrope
without them. I am doubtful if he will be happy, indeed, if not within telescope distance from
the sea itself. I don't think that a river will altogether satisfy him."

"Oh yes, THIS must;" and as she spoke she pointed to the fair glassy surface of the Alabama,
as it stretched away, at  intervals, in broad glimpses before our eyes.

"Well, we shall see; but I will make my preparations, nevertheless, precisely as if he were
not likely to be content. I have formed to myself a plan for all of you. I must make a dear
little colony of our own in Texas. We shall have a nest of the sweetest little cottages, each
with its neat little garden.  In the centre we shall have a neat little playground for our
neat little children; on the hill a neat little church; in the grove a neat little library;
on the river a neat little barge; and over this neat little empire, you, Lady Clifford, shall
be the neat little empress."

"Dear me! what a neat little establishment!"

"It shall be all that, I assure you; and it shall have other advantages. You shall have a kingdom
free from taxes and wars. There shall be no law-givers but yourself. We shall have no elections
except when we elect our wives, and the women shall be the only voters then. We shall have
no  custom houses--everything shall be free of duty;--we shall have no banks--everything shall
be free of charge;--we shall have no parson, for shall we not be sinless?"

"But what will you do with the neat little church?"

"Oh! that we shall keep merely to remind us of what is necessary in less fortunate communities."

"Very good; but how, if you have no parsons, will you  perform the marriage ceremony?"

"That shall be a natural operation of government. The voters having given their suffrages,
you shall determine and declare with whom the majority lies, and give a certificate to that
effect. The first choice will lie with the damsel having the highest number of votes; the second
with the next; and so on to the end of the chapter; and then elections are to take place annually
among the unmarried--the ladies being the privileged class as I said before. You will keep
a record of these events, the names of parties, and so forth; and this record shall be proof,
conclusive to conviction, against any party falling off from his or her duties."

"Quite a system. I do not deny that our sex will have some new privileges by this arrangement."

"Unquestionably. But you have not heard all. We shall have no doctors, for we shall have no
diseases in the beautiful world to which I shall carry you. We shall have no lawyers, for we
shall have no wrangling."

"Indeed; but what is my husband to do then?"

"Why, he is your husband. What should he do? He takes rank from you. You are queen, you know.
He will have no need of law."

"There's reason in that; but how will you prevent  wrangling where there are men and women?"

"Oh, by giving the women their own way. The government is a despotism--you are queen--surely
you will make no  further objection to so admirable a system?"

In good-humored chat like this, in which our landlady, Mrs. Porterfield--a lady who, though
fully sixty-five years of age, was yet of a cheery and chatty disposition--took considerable
part, our first evening passed away. Though fatigued, we sat up until a tolerably late hour,
enlivened by the frank spirit of our friend, Kingsley, and inspired by the natural feeling
of  curiosity which our change of situation inspired It was midnight before we solicited the
aid of sleep.

CHAPTER XL.

THE BLACK DOG ONCE MORE UPON THE SCENE.

The next day was devoted to an examination of our premises and the neighborhood. The result
of this examination was such as to render us better satisfied with the change that we had made.
We were still young enough to be sensible to the loveliness  of novelty. Everything wore that
purple light which the eye of youth confers upon the object. And then there was repose. That
harassing strife of the "blind heart" was at rest.  I had no more suspicions; and my wife looked
and spoke as if she had never had either doubts of me, or fears of herself, within her bosom.
I was happiness itself, when, by the unreserved ease and gayety of her deportment she persuaded
me that she suffered no regrets. I little fancied how much the change in my wife's manner had
arisen from the involuntary change which had been going on in mine. I now looked the love which
I felt; and she felt, in the improvement of my looks, the renewal of that fond passion which
I had never ceased to feel, but which I had only too much ceased to show while suffering from
the "blind heart." She resumed her old amusements with new industry. Our little parlor received
constant accessions of new pictures. All our leisure was employed in exploring the scenery
of the neighborhood; and not a bit of forest, or patch of hill, or streak of rivulet or stream,
to whiah the genius of art could lend loveliness, but she picked up, in these happy rambles,
and worked into fitting places upon our cottage walls.

Our good old hostess became attached to us. She virtually surrendered the management of the
household to my wife. She was old and quite infirm; and was frequently confined for days to
her chamber; which must have been a solitary place enough before our coming. My wife became
a companion to her in these periods of painful seclusion, and thus provided her with a luxury
which had been long denied her. Under these circumstances we had very much our own way. The
old lady had few associates, and these were generally very worthy people.  They soon became
our associates also, and under the influence of better feelings than had governed me for a
long time past, I now found myself in a condition of comfoft, cheerfulness, and peace, which
I fancied I had forfeited for ever.

Two weeks after our arrival, Kingsley took his departure for Texas, on a visit. He proposed
to be absent two months. His object, as he had described it before, in some pleasant exaggerations,
was to select some favorable spots for purchase, which should combine as nearly as possible
the three prime requisites of salubrity, fertility, and beauty. His object was to speculate;
"and this was to be done," he said, "at an early hour of the day." "The Spanish proverb," he
was wont to say, "which regulates the eating of oranges, is not a bad rule to govern a man
in making his speculations. Speculations (oranges) are gold at morning, silver at noon, and
lead at night. It is your wise man," he added, "who buys and sells early; your merely sensible
man who does so at midday; while your dunce, waiting  for an increased appetite at evening,
swallows nothing but lead."

I was in some respects a very fortunate man. If I had been a wise one! It has been seen that
I was singularly successful in business at my first beginning in my native city. I had not
been long in the town of M--, before I began to congratulate myself on the prospect of like
fortune attending me there. The affairs of Kingsley brought me into contact with several men
of business. My letters of introduction made me acquainted with many more; not simply of the
town, but of the neighboring  country. My ardency of temper was particularly suited to a frank,
confiding people, such as are most of the southwestern men; and one or two accidental circumstances
yielded me professional  occupation long before I expected to find it. I had occasion to appear
in court at an early day, and succeeded in making a favorable impression upon my hearers. To
be a good speaker, in the south and southwest, is to be everything.  Eloquence implies wisdom--at
least all the wisdom which is  supposed to be necessary in making lawyers and law-makers--a
precious small modicum of a material by no means precious. I was supposed to have the gift
of the gab in moderate perfection, and my hearers were indulgent. My name obtained circulation,
and, in a short time, I discovered that, in a professional as well as personal point of view,
I had no reason to regret the change of residence which I had made. Business began to flow
in upon me. Applications reached me from adjoining counties, and though my fees, like the cases
which I was employed in, were of moderate amount, they promised to be frequent, while my clients
generally were very substantial persons.

