With the exception of 'The Cenci', everything Shelley published was almost entirely unnoticed
at the time. This play, being more intelligible than the rest, attracted both notice and praise,
though it was also much blamed for what would now be called its unpleasantness. Many people,
among them his wife, regretted that, having proved his ability to handle the concrete, he still
should devote himself to ideal and unpopular abstractions, such as 'The Witch of Atlas' (1821),
a fantastical piece in rime royal, which seems particularly to have provoked Mrs. Shelley.
A "lady Witch" lived in a cave on Mount Atlas, and her games in a magic boat, her dances in
the upper regions of space, and the pranks which she played among men, are described in verse
of a richness that bewilders because it leads to nothing. The poet juggles with flowers and
gems, stars and spirits, lovers and meteors; we are constantly expecting him to break into
some design, and are as constantly disappointed. Our bewilderment is of a peculiar kind; it
is not the same, for instance, as that produced by Blake's prophetic books, where we are conscious
of a great spirit fumbling after the inexpressible. Shelley is not a true mystic. He is seldom
puzzled, and he never seems to have any difficulty in expressing exactly what he feels; his
images are perfectly definite. Our uneasiness arises from the fact that, with so much clear
definition, such great activity in reproducing the subtlest impressions which Nature makes
upon him, his work should have so little artistic purpose or form. Stroke is accumulated on
stroke, each a triumph of imaginative beauty; but as they do not cohere to any discoverable
end, the total impression is apt to be one of effort running to waste.

This formlessness, this monotony of splendour, is felt even in 'Adonais' (1821), his elegy
on the death of Keats. John Keats was a very different person from Shelley. The son of a livery-stable
keeper, he had been an apothecary's apprentice, and for a short time had walked the hospitals.
He was driven into literature by sheer artistic passion, and not at all from any craving to
ameliorate the world. His odes are among the chief glories of the English language. His life,
unlike Shelley's, was devoted entirely to art, and was uneventful, its only incidents an unhappy
love-affair, and the growth, hastened by disappointed passion and the 'Quarterly Review's'
contemptuous attack on his work, of the consumption which killed him at the age of twenty-six.
He was sent to Italy as a last chance. Shelley, who was then at Pisa, proposed to nurse him
back to health, and offered him shelter. Keats refused the invitation, and died at Rome on
February 23, 1821. Shelley was not intimate with Keats, and had been slow to recognise his
genius; but it was enough that he was a poet, in sympathy with the Radicals, an exile, and
the victim of the Tory reviewers. There is not ill Adonais that note of personal bereavement
which wails through Tennyson's 'In Memoriam' or Cowley's 'Ode on the Death of Mr. Hervey'.
Much, especially in the earlier stanzas, is common form.

At first he scarcely seems to know what it is that he wants to say, but as he proceeds he warms
to his work.

The Quarterly Reviewer is next chastised, and at last Shelley has found his cue.

Keats is made "one with Nature"; he is a parce of that power

  "Which wields the world with never wearied love,
   Sustains it from beneath, and kindles it above."

It is once more the same conviction, the offspring of his philosophy and of his suffering,
that we noticed in Hellas, only here the pathos is more acute. So strong is the sense of his
own misery, the premonition of his own death, that we scarcely know, nor does it matter, whether
it is in the person of Keats or of himself that he is lamenting the impermanence of earthly
good. His spirit was hastening to escape from "the last clouds of cold mortality"; his bark
is driven

  "Far from the shore, far from the trembling throng
   Whose sails were never to the tempest given."

A year later he was drowned.

While the beauty of Adonais is easily appreciated, 'Epipsychidion', written in the same year,
must strike many readers as mere moonshine and madness. In 'Alastor', the poet, at the opening
of his career, had pursued in vain through the wilderness of the world a vision of ideal loveliness;
it would now seem that this vision is at last embodied in "the noble and unfortunate Lady Emilia
Viviani," to whom 'Epipsychidion' is addressed. Shelley begins by exhausting, in the effort
to express her perfection, all the metaphors that rapture can suggest. She is a sweet lamp,
a "well of sealed and secret happiness," a star, a tone, a light, a solitude, a refuge, a delight,
a lute, a buried treasure, a cradle, a violet-shaded grave, an antelope, a moon shining through
a mist of dew. But all his "world of fancies" is unequal to express her; he breaks off in despair.
We then have a shadowy record of love's dealings with him. In childhood he clasped the vision
in every natural sight and sound, in verse, and in philosophy. Then it fled, this "soul out
of my soul." He goes into the wintry forest of life, where "one whose voice was venomed melody"
entraps and poisons his youth. The ideal is sought in vain in many mortal shapes, until the
moon rises on him, "the cold chaste Moon," smiling on his soul, which lies in a death-like
trance, a frozen ocean. At last the long-sought vision comes into the wintry forest; it is
Emily, like the sun, bringing light and odour and new life. Henceforth he is a world ruled
by and rejoicing in these twin spheres. "As to real flesh and blood," he said in a letter to
Leigh Hunt, "you know that I do not deal in those articles; you might as well go to a gin-shop
for a leg of mutton as expect anything human or earthly from me." Yet it is certain that the
figures behind the shifting web of metaphors are partly real--that the poisonous enchantress
is his first wife, and the moon that saved him from despair his second wife. The last part
of the poem hymns the bliss of union with the ideal. Emily must fly with him; "a ship is floating
in the harbour now," and there is "an isle under Ionian skies," the fairest of all Shelley's
imaginary landscapes, where their two souls may become one. Then, at the supreme moment, the
song trembles and stops:

    "Woe is me!

We have now taken some view of the chief of Shelley's longer poems. Most of these were published
during his life. They brought him little applause and much execration, but if he had written
nothing else his fame would still be secure. They are, however, less than half of the verse
that he actually wrote. Besides many completed poems, it remained for his wife to decipher,
from scraps of paper, scribbled over, interlined, and erased, a host of fragments, all valuable,
and many of them gems of purest ray. We must now attempt a general estimate of this whole output.

Chapter III The Poet of Rebellion, of Nature, and of Love

It may seem strange that so much space has been occupied in the last two chapters by philosophical
and political topics, and this although Shelley is the most purely lyrical of English poets.
The fact is that in nearly all English poets there is a strong moral and philosophical strain,
particularly in those of the period 1770-1830. They are deeply interested in political, scientific,
and religious speculations in aesthetic questions only superficially, if at all Shelley, with
the tap-roots of his emotions striking deep into politics and philosophy, is only an extreme
instance of a national trait, which was unusually prominent in the early part of the nineteenth
century owing to the state of our insular politics at the time though it must be admitted that
English artists of all periods have an inherent tendency to moralise which has sometimes been
a weakness, and sometimes has given them surprising strength.

Like the other poets of the Romantic Movement Shelley expended his emotion on three main objects--politics,
nature, and love. In each of these subjects he struck a note peculiar to himself, but his singularity
is perhaps greatest in the sphere of politics. It may be summed up in the observation that
no English imaginative writer of the first rank has been equally inspired by those doctrines
that helped to produce the French Revolution. That all men are born free and equal; that by
a contract entered into in primitive times they surrendered as much of their rights as was
necessary to the well-being of the community, that despotic governments and established religions,
being violations of the original contract, are encroachments on those rights and the causes
of all evil; that inequalities of rank and power can be abolished by reasoning, and that then,
since men are naturally good, the golden age will return--these are positions which the English
mind, with its dislike of the 'a priori', will not readily accept. The English Utilitarians,
who exerted a great influence on the course of affairs, and the classical school of economists
that derived from them, did indeed hold that men were naturally good, in a sense. Their theory
was that, if people were left to themselves, and if the restraints imposed by authority on
thought and commerce were removed, the operation of ordinary human motives would produce the
most beneficent results. But their theory was quite empirical; worked out in various ways by
Adam Smith, Bentham, and Mill, it admirably suited the native independence of the English character,
and was justified by the fact that, at the end of the eighteenth century, governments were
so bad that an immense increase of wealth, intelligence, and happiness was bound to come merely
from making a clean sweep of obsolete institutions. Shelley's Radicalism was not of this drab
hue. He was incapable of soberly studying the connections between causes and effects an incapacity
which comes out in the distaste he felt for history--and his conception of the ideal at which
the reformer should aim was vague and fantastic. In both these respects his shortcomings were
due to ignorance of human nature proceeding from ignorance of himself.

And first as to the nature of his ideals. While all good men must sympathise with the sincerity
of his passion to remould this sorry scheme of things "nearer to the heart's desire," few will
find the model, as it appears in his poems, very exhilarating. It is chiefly expressed in negatives:
there will be no priests, no kings, no marriage, no war, no cruelty--man will be "tribeless
and nationless." Though the earth will teem with plenty beyond our wildest imagination, the
general effect is insipid; or, if there are colours in the scene, they are hectic, unnatural
colours. His couples of lovers, isolated in bowers of bliss, reading Plato and eating vegetables,
are poor substitutes for the rich variety of human emotions which the real world, with all
its admixture of evil, actually admits. Hence Shelley's tone irritates when he shrilly summons
us to adore his New Jerusalem. Reflecting on the narrowness of his ideals we are apt to see
him as an ignorant and fanatical sectary, and to detect an unpleasant flavour in his verse.
And we perceive that, as with all honest fanatics, his narrowness comes from ignorance of himself.
The story of Mrs. Southey's buns is typical. When he visited Southey there were hot buttered
buns for tea, and he so much offended Mrs. Southey by calling them coarse, disgusting food
that she determined to make him try them. He ate first one, then another, and ended by clearing
off two plates of the unclean thing. Actively conscious of nothing in himself but aspirations
towards perfection, he never saw that, like everyone else, he was a cockpit of ordinary conflicting
instincts; or, if this tumult of lower movements did emerge into consciousness, he would judge
it to be wholly evil, since it had no connection, except as a hindrance, with his activities
as a reformer. Similarly the world at large, full as it was of nightmare oppressions of wrong,
fell for him into two sharply opposed spheres of light and darkness on one side the radiant
armies of right, on the other the perverse opposition of devils.

With this hysterically over-simplified view of life, fostered by lack of self-knowledge, was
connected a corresponding mistake as to the means by which his ends could be reached. One of
the first observations which generous spirits often make is that the unsatisfactory state of
society is due to some very small kink or flaw in the dispositions of the majority of people.
This perception, which it does not need much experience to reach, is the source of the common
error of youth that everything can be put right by some simple remedy. If only some tiny change
could be made in men's attitude towards one another and towards the universe, what a flood
of evil could be dammed; the slightness of the cause is as striking as the immensity of the
effect. Those who ridicule the young do not, perhaps, always see that this is perfectly true,
though of course they are right in denouncing the inference so often drawn--and here lay Shelley's
fundamental fallacy--that the required tiny change depends on an effort of the will, and that
the will only does not make the effort because feeling is perverted and intelligence dimmed
by convention traditions, prejudices, and superstitions. It is certain, for one thing, that
will only plays a small part in our nature, and that by themselves acts of will cannot make
the world perfect. Most men are helped to this lesson by observation of themselves; they see
that their high resolves are ineffective because their characters are mixed. Shelley never
learnt this. He saw, indeed, that his efforts were futile even mischievous; but, being certain,
and rightly, of the nobility of his aims, he could never see that he had acted wrongly, that
he ought to have calculated the results of his actions more reasonably.

But his failure is the world's gain, for all that is best in his poetry is this expression
of frustrated hope. He has indeed, when he is moved simply by public passion, some wonderful
trumpet-notes; what hate and indignation can do, he sometimes does. And his rapturous dreams
of freedom can stir the intellect, if not the blood. But it must be remarked that poetry inspired
solely by revolutionary enthusiasm is liable to one fatal weakness: it degenerates too easily
into rhetoric. To avoid being a didactic treatise it has to deal in high-flown abstractions,
and in Shelley fear, famine, tyranny, and the rest, sometimes have all the emptiness of the
classical manner. They appear now as brothers, now as parents, now as sisters of one another;
the task of unravelling their genealogy would be as difficult as it is pointless. If Shelley
had been merely the singer of revolution, the intensity and sincerity of his feeling would
still have made him a better poet than Byron; but he would not have been a great poet, partly
because of the inherent drawbacks of the subject, partly because of his strained and false
view of "the moral universe" and of himself. His song, in treating of men as citizens, as governors
and governed, could never have touched such a height as Burns' "A man's a man for a' that."

Fortunately for our literature, Shelley did more than arraign tyrants. The Romantic Movement
was not merely a new way of considering human beings in their public capacity; it meant also
a new kind of sensitiveness to their environment. If we turn, say, from Pope's 'The Rape of
the Lock' to Wordsworth's 'The Prelude', it is as if we have passed from a saloon crowded with
a bewigged and painted company, wittily conversing in an atmosphere that has become rather
stuffy, into the freshness of a starlit night. And just as, on stepping into the open air,
the splendours of mountain, sky, and sea may enlarge our feelings with wonder and delight,
so a corresponding change may occur in our emotions towards one another; in this setting of
a universe with which we feel ourselves now rapturously, now calmly, united, we love with less
artifice, with greater impetuosity and self-abandonment. "Thomson and Cowper," says Peacock,
"looked at the trees and hills which so many ingenious gentlemen had rhymed about so long without
looking at them, and the effect of the operation on poetry was like the discovery of a new
world." The Romantic poets tended to be absorbed in their trees and hills, but when they also
looked in the same spirit on their own hearts, that operation added yet another world to poetry.
In Shelley the absorption of the self in nature is carried to its furthest point. If the passion
to which nature moved him is less deeply meditated than in Wordsworth and Coleridge, its exuberance
is wilder; and in his best lyrics it is inseparably mingled with the passion which puts him
among the world's two or three greatest writers of love-poems.

Of all his verse, it is these songs about nature and love that every one knows and likes best.
And, in fact, many of them seem to satisfy what is perhaps the ultimate test of true poetry:
they sometimes have the power, which makes poetry akin to music, of suggesting by means of
words something which cannot possibly be expressed in words. Obviously the test is impossible
to use with any objective certainty, but, for a reason which will appear, it seems capable
of a fairly straightforward application to Shelley's work.

First we may observe that, just as the sight of some real scene--not necessarily a sunset or
a glacier, but a ploughed field or a street-corner--may call up emotions which "lie too deep
for tears" and cannot be put into words, this same effect can be produced by unstudied descriptions.

Now, in the description of natural scenes that kind of effect is beyond Shelley's reach, though
he has many pictures which are both detailed and emotional. Consider, for instance, these lines
from 'The Invitation' (1822).

This has a wonderful lightness and radiance.

Evidently he was a good observer, in the sense that he saw details clearly--unlike Byron, who
had for nature but a vague and a preoccupied eye--and evidently, too, his observation is steeped
in strong feeling, and is expressed in most melodious language. Yet we get the impression that
he neither saw nor felt anything beyond exactly what he has expressed; there is no suggestion,
as there should be in great poetry, of something beyond all expression.

Can he keep it up, we wonder, this manipulation of eagles and rainbows, of sunset and moonshine,
of spray and thunder and lightning? We hold our breath; it is superhuman, miraculous; but he
never falters, so vehement is the impulse of his delight. It is only afterwards that we ask
ourselves whether there is anything beyond the mere delight; and realising that, though we
have been rapt far above the earth, we have had no disturbing glimpses of infinity, we are
left with a slight flatness of disappointment.

But disappointment vanishes when we turn to the poems in which ecstasy is shot through with
that strain of melancholy which we have already noticed.

The contrast between the peaceful loveliness of nature and his own misery is a piteous puzzle.

But

    "Alas!

The aching weariness that throbs in the music of these verses is not mere sentimental self-pity;
it is the cry of a soul that has known moments of bliss when it has been absorbed in the sea
of beauty that surrounds it, only the moments pass, and the reunion, ever sought, seems ever
more hopeless. Over and over again Shelley's song gives us both the fugitive glimpses and the
mystery of frustration.

Why is it that he is equal to the highest office of poetry in these sad 'cris de coeur' rather
than anywhere else? There is one poem--perhaps his greatest poem--which may suggest the answer.
In the 'Sensitive Plant' (1820) a garden is first described on which are lavished all his powers
of weaving an imaginary landscape out of flowers and light and odour.

Now there was "a power in this sweet place, an Eve in this Eden." "A Lady, the wonder of her
kind," tended the flowers from earliest spring, through the summer, "and, ere the first leaf
looked brown, she died!" The last part of the poem, a pendant to the first, is full of the
horrors of corruption and decay when the power of good has vanished and the power of evil is
triumphant.

The fact is that Shelley's melancholy is intimately connected with his philosophical ideas.
It is the creed of the student of Berkeley, of Plato, of Spinoza. What is real and unchanging
is the one spirit which interpenetrates and upholds the world with "love and beauty and delight,"
and this spirit--the vision which Alastor pursued in vain, the "Unseen Power" of the 'Ode to
Intellectual Beauty'--is what is always suggested by his poetry at its highest moments. The
suggestion, in its fulness, is of course ineffable; only in the case of Shelley some approach
can be made to naming it, because he happened to be steeped in philosophical ways of thinking.
The forms in which he gave it expression are predominantly melancholy, because this kind of
idealism, with its insistence on the unreality of evil, is the recoil from life of an unsatisfied
and disappointed soul.

His philosophy of love is but a special case of this all-embracing doctrine. We saw how in
'Epipsychidion' he rejected monogamic principles on the ground that true love is increased,
not diminished, by division, and we can now understand why he calls this theory an "eternal
law." For, in this life of illusion, it is in passionate love that we most nearly attain to
communion with the eternal reality. Hence the more of it the better. The more we divide and
spread our love, the more nearly will the fragments of goodness and beauty that are in each
of us find their true fruition. This doctrine may be inconvenient in practice, but it is far
removed from vulgar sensualism, of which Shelley had not a trace. Hogg says that he was "pre-eminently
a ladies' man," meaning that he had that childlike helplessness and sincerity which go straight
to the hearts of women. To this youth, preaching sublime mysteries, and needing to be mothered
into the bargain, they were as iron to the magnet. There was always an Eve in his Eden, and
each was the "wonder of her kind"; but whoever she was--Harriet Grove, Harriet Westbrook, Elizabeth
Hitchener, Cornelia Turner, Mary Godwin, Emilia Viviani, or Jane Williams--she was never a
Don Juan's mistress; she was an incarnation of the soul of the world, a momentary mirror of
the eternal. Such an attitude towards the least controllable of passions has several drawbacks:
it involves a certain inhumanity, and it is only possible for long to one who remains ignorant
of himself and cannot see that part of the force impelling him is blind attraction towards
a pretty face. It also has the result that, if the lover is a poet, his love-songs will be
sad. Obsessed by the idea of communion with some divine perfection, he must needs be often
cast down, not only by finding that, Ixion-like, he has embraced a cloud (as Shelley said of
himself and Emilia), but because, even when the object of his affection is worthy, complete
communion is easier to desire than to attain. Thus Shelley's love-songs are just what might
be expected. If he does strain to the moment of ingress into the divine being, it is to swoon
with excess of bliss, as at the end of 'Epipsychidion', or as in the 'Indian Serenade':

  "Oh lift me from the grass!
   I die!  I faint!  I fail!"

Here the failure is foreseen; he knows she will not kiss him.

Is the assertion contained in this last line universally true? Perhaps. At any rate it is true
of Shelley. His saddest songs are the sweetest, and the reason is that in them, rather than
in those verses where he merely utters ecstatic delight, or calm pleasure, or bitter indignation,
he conveys ineffable suggestions beyond what the bare words express.

It remains to point out that there is one means of conveying such suggestions which was outside
the scope of his genius. One of the methods which poetry most often uses to suggest the ineffable
is by the artful choice and arrangement of words. A word, simply by being cunningly placed
and given a certain colour, can, in the hands of a good craftsman, open up indescribable vistas.
But Keats, when, in reply to a letter of criticism, he wrote to him, "You might curb your magnanimity,
and be more of an artist, and load every rift of your subject with ore," was giving him advice
which, though admirable, it was impossible that he should follow. Shelley was not merely not
a craftsman by nature, he was not the least interested in those matters which are covered by
the clumsy name of "technique." It is characteristic of him that, while most great poets have
been fertile coiners of new words, his only addition to the language is the ugly "idealism"
in the sense of "ideal object." He seems to have strayed from the current vocabulary only in
two other cases, both infelicitous--"glode" for "glided," and "blosmy" for "blossomy." He did
not, like Keats, look on fine phrases with the eye of a lover. His taste was the conventional
taste of the time. Thus he said of Byron's 'Cain', "It is apocalyptic, it is a revelation not
before communicated to man"; and he thought Byron and Tom Moore better poets than himself.
As regards art, he cheapened Michael Angelo, and the only things about which he was enthusiastic
in Italy, except the fragments of antiquity which he loved for their associations, were the
paintings of Raphael and Guido Reni. Nor do we find in him any of those new metrical effects,
those sublime inventions in prosody, with which the great masters astonish us. Blank verse
is a test of poets in this respect, and Shelley's blank verse is limp and characterless. Those
triumphs, again, which consist in the beauty of complicated wholes, were never his. He is supreme,
indeed, in simple outbursts where there is no question of form, but in efforts of longer breath,
where architecture is required, he too often sprawls and fumbles before the inspiration comes.

Yet his verse has merits which seem to make such criticisms vain. We may trace in it all kinds
of 'arrieres pensees', philosophical and sociological, that an artist ought not to have, and
we may even dislike its dominating conception of a vague spirit that pervades the universe;
but we must admit that when he wrote it was as if seized and swept away by some "unseen power"
that fell upon him unpremeditated. His emotions were of that fatal violence which distinguishes
so many illustrious but unhappy souls from the mass of peaceable mankind. So slight were the
occasions that could affect him even to vertigo. When, from whatever cause, the frenzy took
him, he would write hastily, leaving gaps, not caring about the sense. Afterwards he would
work conscientiously over what he had written, but there was nothing left for him to do but
to correct in cold blood, make plain the meaning, and reduce all to such order as he could.
One result of this method was that his verse preserved an unparallelled rush and spontaneity,
which is perhaps as great a quality as anything attained by the more bee-like toil of better
artists.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The literature dealing with Shelley's work and life is immense, and no attempt will be made
even to summarise it here. A convenient one-volume edition of the poems is that edited by Professor
Edward Dowden for Messrs. Macmillan (1896); it includes Mary Shelley's valuable notes. There
is a good selection of the poems in the "Golden Treasury Series," compiled by A. Stopford Brooke.
The Prose Works have been collected and edited by Mr. H. Buxton Forman in four volumes (1876-1880).
Of the letters there is an edition by Mr. Roger Ingpen (2 vols., 1909). A number of letters
to Elizabeth Hitchener were published by Mr. Bertram Dobell in 1909.

For a first-hand knowledge of a poet's life and character the student must always go to the
accounts of contemporaries. In Shelley's case these are copious. There are T. L. Peacock,s
'Memoirs' (edited by E. F. B. Brett-Smith, 1909); Peacock's 'Nightmare Abbey' contains an amusing
caricature of Shelley in the person of Scythrops; and in at least two of her novels Mary Shelley
has left descriptions of her husband: Adrian Earl of Windsor, in 'The Last Man', is a portrait
of Shelley, and 'Lodore' contains an account of his estrangement from Harriet. His cousin Tom
Medwin's 'Life' (1847) is a bad book, full of inaccuracies. But Shelley had one unique piece
of good fortune: two friends wrote books about him that are masterpieces. T. J. Hogg's 'Life'
is especially valuable for the earlier period, and E. J. Trelawny's 'Records of Shelley, Byron,
and the Author', describes him in the last year before his death. Hogg's 'Life' has been republished
in a cheap edition by Messrs. Routledge, and there is a cheap edition of Trelawny's 'Records'
in Messrs. Routledge's "New Universal Library." But both these books, while they give incomparably
vivid pictures of the poet, are rambling and unconventional, and should be supplemented by
Professor Dowden's 'Life of Shelley' (2 vols., 1886), which will always remain the standard
biography. Of other recent lives, Mr. A. Clutton-Brock's 'Shelley: the Man and the Poet' (1910)
may be recommended.

Of the innumerable critical estimates of Shelley and his place in literature, the most noteworthy
are perhaps Matthew Arnold's Essay in his 'Essays in Criticism', and Francis Thompson's 'Shelley'
(1909). Vol. iv. "Naturalism in England," of Dr. George Brandes' 'Main Currents in Nineteenth
Century Literature' (1905), may be read with interest, though it is not very reliable; and
Prof. Oliver Elton's 'A Survey of English Literature', 1780-1830 (1912), should be consulted.

Whoever wishes to follow the fortunes, after the fire of their lives was extinguished by Shelley's
death, of Mary Shelley, Claire Clairmont, and the rest, should read, besides Trelawny's 'Records'
already mentioned, 'The Life and Letters of Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley', by Mrs. Julian Marshall
(2 vols., 1889), and 'The Letters of E. J. Trelawny, edited by Mr. H. Buxton Forman (1910).