At the first glance it may seem incomprehensible why the German diplomacy should have presented
its democratic formulae if it intended within two or three days to disclose its wolfish appetite.
What was it that the German diplomacy expected to bring about? At least, the theoretic discussions
which developed around the democratic formulae, owing largely to the initiative of Kuehlmann
himself, were not without their danger. That the diplomacy of the Central Empires could not
reap many laurels in that way must have been clear beforehand to that diplomacy itself. But
the secret of the conduct of the diplomacy of Kuehlmann consisted in that that gentleman was
sincerely convinced of our readiness to play a four-handed game with him. His way of reasoning
was approximately as follows: Russia needs peace. The Bolsheviki got the power because of their
struggle for peace. The Bolsheviki desire to remain in power and this is possible for them
only on condition that peace is concluded. It is true that they bound themselves to a definite
democratic program of peace, but why do diplomats exist if not for the purpose of making black
look white? We Germans will make it easier for the Bolsheviki by covering our plunders by democratic
formulas. The Bolshevist diplomacy will have plenty of reason not to dig for the political
essence of the matter, or, rather, not to expose to the entire world the contents of the enticing
formulae.... In other words, Kuehlmann relied upon a silent agreement with us. He would return
to us our fine formulas and we should give him a chance to get provinces and peoples for Germany
without a protest. In the eyes of the German workers, the annexations by force would thus receive
the sanction of the Russian Revolution. When during the discussions, we showed that with us,
it was not a matter of empty words or of camouflaging a conspiracy concluded behind the scenes,
but a matter of democratic principles for the international life of the community of nations,
Kuehlmann took it as a willful and malicious breaking of the silent agreement. He would not
by any means recede from the position taken in the formulas of the 25th of December. Relying
upon his cunning, bureaucratic and judicial logic, he tried in the face of the entire world
to show that white is in no way different from black, and it was our own perverseness which
made us insist that there was such a difference. Count Czernin, the representative of Austria-Hungary,
played a part in those negotiations which no one would consider inspiring or satisfactory.

He was an awkward second and upon instructions from Kuehlmann took it upon himself in all critical
moments to utter the most extreme and cynical declarations. General Hoffmann brought a refreshing
note into the negotiations. Showing no great sympathy for the diplomatic constructions of Kuehlmann,
the General several times put his soldierly boot upon the table, around which a complicated
judicial debate was developing. We, on our part, did not doubt for a single minute that just
this boot of General Hoffmann was the only element of serious reality in these negotiations.
The important trump in the hands of Mr. Kuehlmann was the participation in the negotiations
of a delegation of the Kiev Rada. For the Ukrainian middle classes, who had seized the power,
the most important factor seemed to be the "recognition" of their government by the capitalist
governments of Europe. At first the Rada placed itself at the disposal of the Allied imperialists,
received from them some pocket money, and immediately thereupon sent their representatives
to Brest-Litovsk in order to make a bargain behind the back of the Russian people with the
government of Austria-Hungary for the recognition of the legitimate birth of their government.
They had hardly taken this first step on the road to "international" existence, when the Kiev
diplomacy revealed the same narrow-mindedness and the same moral standards which were always
so characteristic of the petty politicians of the Balkan Peninsula. Messrs. Kuehlmann and Czernin
certainly had no illusions concerning the solidity of the new participant in the negotiations.
But they thought, and correctly so, that the participation of the Kiev delegation complicated
the game not without advantage for themselves.

At its first appearance at Brest-Litovsk, the Kiev delegation characterized Ukraine as a component
part of the Russian Federated Republic that was in progress of formation. This apparently embarrassed
the diplomats of the Central Empires, who considered it their main task to convert the Russian
Republic into a new Balkan Peninsula. At their second appearance the delegates of the Rada
declared, under dictation from the Austro-Hungarian diplomacy, that Ukraine refused to join
the Russian Federation and was becoming an entirely independent republic. In order to give
the reader an opportunity to get a better idea of the situation which was thus created for
the Soviet power in the last moment of the peace negotiations, I think it best to reproduce
here in its basic parts the address made by the author of these lines in his capacity as the
People's Commissar on Foreign Affairs at the session of the Central Executive Committee on
the 14th of February, 1918.

ADDRESS OF THE PEOPLES COMMISSAR ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Comrades: Upon Soviet Russia has fallen the task not only to construct the new but also to
recapitulate the old to a certain degree, or, rather, to a very large degree--to pay all bills,
first of all the bills of the war, which has lasted three and a half years. The war put the
economic power of the belligerent countries to a severe test. The fate of Russia, a poor, backward
country, in a protracted war was predetermined. In the terrible collision of the military machines
the determining factor, after all is said and done, is the ability of the country to adapt
its industries to the military needs, to rebuild it on the shortest notice and to produce in
continuously increasing quantities the weapons of destruction which are used up at such an
enormous rate during this massacre of peoples. Almost every country, including the most backward,
could and did have powerful weapons of destruction at the beginning of the war; that is, it
obtained them from foreign countries. That is what all the backward countries did, and so did
Russia. But the war speedily wears out its dead capital, demanding that it be continuously
replenished. The military power of every single country drawn into the whirlpool of the world
massacre was, as a matter of fact, measured by its ability to produce independently and during
the war itself, its cannons and shells and the other weapons of destruction.

If the war had decided the problem of the balance of power in a very short time, Russia might
conceivably have turned out to be on that side of the trenches which victory favored. But the
war dragged along for a long time, and it was not an accident that it did so. The fact alone
that the international politics were for the last fifty years reduced to the construction of
the so-called European "balance of power," that is, to a state in which the hostile powers
approximately balance one another, this fact alone was bound--when the power and wealth of
the present bourgeois nations is considered--to make it a war of an extremely protracted character.
That meant first of all the exhaustion of the weaker and economically less developed countries.

The most powerful country in a military sense proved to be Germany, because of the strength
of the industries and because of their modern and rational construction as against the archaic
construction of the German State. France, with its undeveloped state of capitalism, proved
to be far behind Germany, and even such a powerful colonial power as Great Britain, owing to
the conservative and routine character of the English industries, proved to be weaker than
Germany. When history put before the Russian Revolution the question of the peace negotiations,
we had no doubt that in these negotiations, and so long as the decisive power of the revolutionary
proletariat of the world had not interfered, we should be compelled to stand the bill of three
and a half years of war. There was no doubt in our minds that in the person of the German imperialism
we were dealing with an opponent who was saturated with the consciousness of his immense power,
which was strikingly revealed during the present war.

All the arguments made by bourgeois cliques that we might have been incomparably stronger if
we had conducted these negotiations together with our allies are absolutely without foundation.
In order that we might at an indefinite future date conduct negotiations together with our
Allies, we should first of all have had to continue the war together with them. And if our
country was weakened and exhausted, the continuation of the war, a failure to bring it to a
conclusion, would have still further weakened and exhausted it. We should have had to settle
the war under conditions still more unfavorable to us. In the case even that the combination
of which Russia, owing to international intrigues of Czarism and the bourgeoisie, had become
a part--the combination headed by Great Britain--in the case even that this combination had
come out of the war completely victorious--let us for a moment admit the possibility of such
a not very probable issue--even in that case, comrades, it does not mean that our country would
also have come out victorious. For during further continuation of this protracted war, Russia
would have become even more exhausted and plundered than now. The masters of that combination,
who would concentrate in their hands the fruits of the victory, that is, Great Britain and
America, would have displayed toward our country the same methods which were displayed by Germany
during the peace negotiations. It would be absurd and childish to appraise the politics of
the imperialistic countries from the point of view of any considerations other than those considerations
of naked interests and material power. Consequently, if we, as a nation are at present weakened
before the imperialism of the world, we are weakened, not because of extricating ourselves
from the fiery ring of the war, having already previously extricated ourselves from the shackles
of international military obligations: no! we are weakened by that very policy of the Czarists
and the bourgeois classes, which we, as a revolutionary party, have always fought against before
this war and during this war.

You remember, comrades, under what conditions our delegation went to Brest-Litovsk last time,
right after one of the sessions of the Third All-Russian Congress of the Soviets. At that session,
we reported on the state of the negotiations, and the demands of our opponents. These demands,
as you remember, were really no more than masked, or, rather, half-masked annexationist aspirations
at the expense of Lithuania, Courland, a part of Livonia, the Isles of Moon Sound, as well
as a half-masked demand for a punitive war indemnity which we then estimated would amount to
six, eight or even ten milliards of rubles. During interruption of the sessions, which continued
for about ten days, a considerable disturbance took place in Austria-Hungary; strikes of masses
of workers broke out, and these strikes were the first recognition of our methods of conducting
peace negotiations that we met with from the proletariat of the Central Empires, as against
the annexationist demands of the German militarism. We promised here no miracles but we did
say that the road we were pursuing was the only road remaining to the revolutionary democracy
for securing the possibility of its further development.

There is room for complaint that the proletariat of the other countries, and particularly of
the Central Empires, is too slow to enter the road of open revolutionary struggle, yes, it
must be admitted that the pace of its development is all too slow--but, nevertheless, there
could be observed a movement in Austria-Hungary which swept the entire state and which was
a direct echo of the Brest-Litovsk negotiations.

Leaving for Brest-Litovsk, it was our common opinion that there was no ground to believe that
just this wave would sweep away the Austro-German militarism. If we had been convinced that
this could be expected, we would gladly have given the promise that several persons demanded
from us, namely, that under no circumstances would we sign a separate peace with Germany. I
said at that very time, that we could not make such a promise, for it would amount to taking
upon ourselves the obligation of vanquishing the German militarism. The secret of attaining
such a victory was not in our possession. And inasmuch as we would not undertake the obligation
to change the balance of the world powers at a moment's notice, we frankly and openly declared
that revolutionary power may under certain conditions be compelled to agree to an annexationist
peace. A revolutionary power would fall short of its high principles only in the event that
it should attempt to conceal from its own people the predatory character of the peace, but
by no means, however, in the event that the course of the struggle should compel it to adopt
such a peace.

At the same time, we indicated that we were leaving to continue negotiations under conditions
which were seemingly improving for us and becoming worse for our enemies. We observed the movement
in Austria-Hungary, and there were signs indicating (this was made the basis for statements
by representatives of the German Social Democracy in the Reichstag) that Germany was on the
eve of similar events. We went with this hope. During the first days of this visit to Brest-Litovsk
the wireless brought us from Vilna the first news that in Berlin an enormous strike movement
was developing; this movement as well as that of Austria-Hungary was directly connected with
the course of negotiations in Brest. However, as is often the case, by reason of the dialectic
of the class struggle, just this conspicuous beginning of the proletarian rising, which surpassed
anything Germany had ever seen, was bound to push the property classes to a closer consolidation
and to greater hostility against the proletariat. The German dominating classes are saturated
with a sufficiently strong instinct of self-preservation to understand that concessions in
such an exigency as they were in, under the pressure of the masses of their own people--concessions
however small--would amount to capitulation before the idea of the revolution. That is why,
after the first moment of perplexity and panic, the time when Kuehlmann deliberately dragged
out the negotiations by minor and formal questions, had passed--as soon as the strikes were
disposed of, as soon as he came to the conclusion that for the time being no imminent danger
threatened his masters, he again changed front and adopted a tone of unlimited self-confidence
and aggression.

Our negotiations were complicated by the participation of the Kiev Rada. We called attention
to this last time, too. The delegation from the Kiev Rada appeared at a time when the Rada
represented a fairly strong organization in the Ukraine and when the way out of the war had
not yet been predetermined. Just at that time, we made the Rada an official offer to conclude
a definite treaty with us, making as one of the conditions of such a treaty the following demand:
that the Rada declare Kaledin and Korniloff to be counter-revolutionists and put no hindrance
in the way of our waging war on these two leaders. The delegation from the Kiev Rada arrived,
just when we hoped to reach an understanding with it on these matters. We declared that as
long as the people of the Ukraine recognized the Rada, we considered its independent participation
in these negotiations permissible. But with the further development of events in Russian territory
and in the Ukraine, and the more the antagonism between the Ukrainian masses and the Rada increased,
the greater became the Rada's readiness to conclude any kind of treaty with the governments
of the Central Empires, and, if need be, to drag German imperialism into the internal affairs
of the Russian Republic, in order to support the Rada against the Russian revolution.

On the 9th day of February (N. S.) we learned that the peace negotiations carried on behind
our backs between the Rada and the Central Powers, had been signed. The 9th of February happened
to be the birthday of Leopold of Bavaria, and, as is the custom in monarchical countries, the
triumphant historical act was timed--with or without the consent of the Kiev Rada for this
festive day. General Hoffmann had a salute fired in honor of Leopold of Bavaria, having previously
asked permission to do so of the Kiev delegation, since by the treaty of peace Brest-Litovsk
had been ceded to Ukraine.

Events had taken such a turn, however, that at the time General Hoffmann was asking permission
for a military salute, the Kiev Rada had but very little territory left outside of Brest-Litovsk.
On the strength of the telegrams we had received from Petrograd, we officially made it known
to the Central Powers' delegation that the Kiev Rada no longer existed, a circumstance which
certainly had some bearing on the course of the peace negotiations. We suggested to Count Czernin
that his representatives accompany our officers into Ukrainian territory to ascertain whether
the Kiev Rada existed or not. Czernin seemed to welcome this suggestion, but when we asked
him if this meant that the treaty made with the Kiev delegation would not be signed before
the return of his own mission, he hesitated and promised to ask Kuehlmann about it. Having
inquired, he sent us an answer in the negative.

This was on February 8th. By the 9th, they had to sign the treaty. This could not be delayed,
not only on account of Leopold's birthday, but for a more important reason, which Kuehlmann
undoubtedly explained to Czernin: "If we should send our representatives into the Ukraine just
now, they might really convince themselves that the Rada does not exist; and then we shall
have to face a single All-Russian delegation which would spoil our prospects in the negotiations."...
By the Austro-Hungarian delegation we were advised to put principle aside and to place the
question on a more practical plane. Then the German delegation would be disposed to concessions....
It was unthinkable that the Germans should decide to continue the war over, say, the Moon Islands,
if you put this demand in concrete form.

We replied that we were ready to look into such concessions as their German colleagues were
prepared to make. "So far we have been contending for the self-determination of the Lithuanians,
Poles, Livonians, Letts, Esthonians, and other peoples; and on all these issues you have told
us that such self-determination is out of the question. Now let us see what your plans are
in regard to the self-determination of another people--the Russians; what designs and plans
of a military strategic nature are behind your seizure of the Moon Islands. For these islands,
as an integral part of an independent Esthonian Republic, or as a possession of the Federated
Russian Republic would have only a defensive military importance, while in the hands of Germany
they would assume offensive significance, menacing the most vital centers of our country, and
especially Petrograd."

But, of course, Hoffmann would make no concessions whatsoever. Then the hour for reaching a
decision had come. We could not declare war, for we were too weak. The army had lost all of
its internal ties. In order to save our country, to overcome this disorganization, it was imperative
to establish the internal coherence of the toilers. This psychological tie can only be created
by constructive work in factory, field and workshop. We had to return the masses of laborers,
who had been subjected to great and intense suffering--who had experienced catastrophes in
the war--to the fields and factories, where they must find themselves again and get a footing
in the labor world, and rebuild internal discipline. This was the only way to save the country,
which was now atoning for the sins of Czarism and the bourgeoisie. We had to get out of the
war and withdraw the army from the slaughter house. Nevertheless, we threw this in the face
of the German militarism: The peace you are forcing down our throats is a peace of aggression
and robbery. We cannot permit you, Messrs. Diplomats, to say to the German workingmen: "You
have characterized our demands as avaricious, as annexationist. But look, under these very
demands we have brought you the signature of the Russian revolution." Yes, we are weak, we
cannot fight at present. But we have sufficient revolutionary courage to say that we shall
not willingly affix our signature to the treaty which you are writing with the sword on the
body of living peoples. We refused to affix our signature. I believe we acted properly, comrades.

I do not mean to say, friends, that a German advance upon Russia is out of the question. It
were too rash to make such an assertion in view of the great strength of the German imperialistic
party. But I do believe that the stand we have taken in the matter has rendered it far more
difficult for German militarism to advance upon us. What would happen if it should advance?
To this there is but one thing to say: If it is possible in our country, a country completely
exhausted and in a state of desperation, to raise the spirits of the more revolutionary energetic
elements; if a struggle in defence of our Revolution and the territory comprised within it
is still possible, then this is the case only as a result of our abandoning the war and refusing
to sign the peace treaty.

THE SECOND WAR AND THE SIGNING OF PEACE

During the first few days following the breaking off of negotiations the German government
hesitated, not knowing what course to pursue. The politicians and diplomats evidently thought
that the principal objects had been accomplished and that there was no reason for coveting
our signatures. The military men were ready, in any event, to break through the lines drawn
by the German Government at Brest-Litovsk. Professor Krigge, the advisor of the German delegation,
told a member of our delegation that a German invasion of Russia under the existing conditions
was out of the question. Count Mirbach, then at the head of the German missions at Petrograd,
went to Berlin with the assurance that an agreement concerning the exchange of prisoners of
war had been satisfactorily reached. But all this did not in the least prevent General Hoffmann
from declaring on the fifth day after the Brest-Litovsk negotiations had been broken off--that
the armistice was over, antedating the seven-day period from the time of the last Brest-Litovsk
session. It were really out of place to dilate here on the moral indignation caused by this
piece of dishonesty. It fits in perfectly with the general state of diplomatic and military
morality of the ruling classes.

The new German invasion developed under circumstances most fatal for Russia. Instead of the
week's notice agreed upon, we received notice only two days in advance. This circumstance intensified
the panic in the army which was already in state of chronic dissolution. Resistance was almost
unthinkable. The soldiers could not believe that the Germans would advance after we had declared
the state of war at an end. The panicky retreat paralyzed the will even of such individual
detachments as were ready to make a stand. In the workingmen's quarters of Petrograd and Moscow,
the indignation against the treacherous and truly murderous German invasion reached a pitch
of greatest intensity. In these alarming days and nights, the workers were ready to enlist
in the army by the ten thousand. But the matter of organizing lagged far behind. Isolated tenacious
detachments full of enthusiasm became convinced themselves of their instability in their first
serious clashes with German regulars. This still further lowered the country's spirits. The
old army had long ago been hopelessly defeated and was going to pieces, blocking all the roads
and byways. The new army, owing to the country's general exhaustion, the fearful disorganization
of industries and the means of transportation, was being got together too slowly. Distance
was the only serious obstacle in the way of the German invasion.

The chief attention of the Austro-Hungarian government was centered on the Ukraine. The Rada,
through its delegation, had appealed to the governments of the Central Empires for direct military
aid against the Soviets, which had by that time completely defeated the Ukrainians. Thus did
the petty-bourgeois democracy of the Ukraine, in its struggle against the working class and
the destitute peasants, voluntarily open the gates to foreign invasion.

At the same time, the Svinhufvud government was seeking the aid of German bayonets against
the Finnish proletariat. German militarism, openly and before the whole world, assumed the
role of executioner of the peasant and proletarian revolution in Russia.

In the ranks of our party hot debates were being carried on as to whether or not we should,
under these circumstances, yield to the German ultimatum and sign a new treaty, which--and
this no one doubted--would include conditions incomparably more onerous than those announced
at Brest-Litovsk. The representatives of the one view held that just now, with the German intervention
in the internal war of the Russian Republic, it was impossible to establish peace for one part
of Russia and remain passive, while in the South and in the North, German forces would be establishing
a regime of bourgeois dictatorship. Another view, championed chiefly by Lenin, was that every
delay, even the briefest breathing spell, would greatly help the internal stabilization and
increase the Russian powers of resistance. After the whole country and the whole world had
come to know of our absolute helplessness against foreign invasion at this time, the conclusion
of peace would everywhere be understood as an act forced upon us by the cruel law of disproportionate
forces. It would be childish to argue from the standpoint of abstract revolutionary ethics.
The point is not to die with honor but to achieve ultimate victory. The Russian Revolution
wants to survive, must survive, and must by every means at its disposal avoid fighting an uneven
battle and gain time, in the hope that the Western revolutionary movement will come to its aid.

