From a curious and ingenious Mathematical Essay on the comparative prices of similar articles
in different ages, presented to the society of Antiquaries, we have here the pleasure of offering
to the attention of our visitor, the following valuable remarks.

    "The generality of readers when they look into the records of antient
    times, are forcibly struck by the seeming lowness of the prices of
    every article of common demand, when compared with the modern prices.
    When they find that an ox was formerly sold for a few shillings, and
    the price of a quarter of corn calculated in pence, they are led to
    envy the supposed cheapness of those ages, and to bewail the
    distressing dearness of the present.  Nothing however can be more
    absurd than the whining complaints founded upon such facts; for since
    the cheapness of living depends not so much upon the price given for
    every article of prime necessity, as upon the means by which, to use
    a common expression, the purchase may be afforded, we must, if we
    wish to form a proper judgment on the subject, rightly compare these
    means as they existed in different ages, otherwise our conclusions
    will be not only idle, but sometimes mischievous.

    "It is very certain that money is a commodity, no less than the
    articles it is employed to purchase, and like them, its absolute
    value is depreciated or lowered by abundance.  Since the discovery of
    America, the quantity of gold and silver brought into general
    circulation, and of late, the general and extensive use of paper
    money which represents real specie, produces the same effect as would
    arise from a still greater encrease of it.  From this natural
    depreciation alone of the value of coin, it follows that were all
    other circumstances to have continued the same, the relative value of
    money would have decreased, or a greater number of pieces of the same
    denomination would be now required to produce the same effect as
    formerly, and therefore that it will be necessary to multiply any sum
    of money of the present age, into some certain number, in order to
    learn the effect of the same sum in an assigned preceding age."

From this multiplication it is demonstrated that the price of the dozen of Ale, for which the
Trinity Guild paid 20d. is equivalent to something more than 6d. a quart;--the fat sheep at
2s. 4d. to 1l. 11s. 4d.--the seven lambs at 7s. to 16s. each;--the thirty chickens at 23d.
to rather more than 2s. 6d. the couple;--the two gallons of cream at 8d. to 2s. 8d. a quart;--the
half quarter of malt at 2s. to 3l. 4s. the quarter;--the fourteen geese at 4s. 3d. to nearly
5s. each.

In the reign of the Norman kings, articles, but especially corn, were dearer than at present.
In Henry the sevenths reign meat was cheaper, but other articles dearer than at present.  We
now return to the church of St. Mary.

In the year 1783, the spire which had several times been injured by lightening, was so much
shattered by a fresh stroke as to require to be taken down to the battlements.  It was rebuilt
under the direction of an architect, of the name of Cheshire at an expense, exclusive of the
old materials, of 245l. 10s. the height of the spire from the ground 61 yards.  In this church,
in which for many years he officiated as curate, is interred the Rev. W. Bickerstaffe, a man
of great simplicity of manners, and urbanity of disposition; who by his laborious and minute
researches materially assisted the Topographers of Leicester.

Near the north door of this church is a passage leading under an old fashioned building forming
a gate-way into an area called the castle yard.  That the present structure was the gate-way
of the castle when it was tenable as a place of defence, cannot, for a moment be imagined;
but that there was always an entrance at this place we are well assured, for the adjoining
building on the left is known by the name of the Porter's Lodge, and it must therefore be concluded
that the present was built upon the scite of the antient gate-way, and that it was constructed
with the timbers and other materials taken in later ages from some part of the castle which
had been taken down.

At this gateway was preserved, till within a few years past, an antient ceremony expressive
of the homage formerly paid by the magistrates of Leicester, to the feudal Lords of the castle.
The mayor knocking for admittance at the gate was received by the constable of the castle,
while the mace was sloped in token of homage; he then took an oath of allegiance to the king
as heir to the Lancastrian property; the latter ceremony, agreeable to one of the corporation
charters, is still performed, but in private.  The office of constable of the castle, which
in the beginning of the reign of Mary, was held by Henry duke of Suffolk, with the annual fee
of sixty shillings and eight pence, is now retained only nominally.

Opposite the gate-way stands a building most probably erected by the first of the Bellomonts,
tho' the modern front which meets the eye effectually conceals all the outward traces of antiquity.
The inside of the edifice however is a room exceedingly curious.  Its area is large, being
about seventy-eight feet long, twenty-four high and fifty-one broad.  It is framed into a sort
of aisles, by two rows of tall and massy oaken pillars, which serve to support a large and
weighty covering of slate.  This vast room was the antient hall of the castle, in which the
earls of Leicester, and afterwards the dukes of Lancaster, alternately held their courts, and
consumed in rude but plenteous hospitality, at the head of their visitors, or their vassals,
the rent of their estates then usually paid in kind.  On the south end appear the traces of
a door-way, which probably was the entrance into a gallery that has often, among other purposes,
served as an orchestra for the minstrels and musicians of former days.  This hall, during the
reigns of several of the Lancastrian princes was the scene of frequent Parliaments, whose transactions
our provincial historians have carefully recorded.  At present it is used only for the holding
the assizes and other country meetings, to which purpose it is, from its length, so well adapted,
that, tho' the business of the civil and crown bars is carried on at the same time at the opposite
ends of the room, the pleadings of the one do not in the least interrupt the pleadings of the
other.

The reflecting visitor, who may choose to compare the uses to which this place is now applied,
with the purposes for which it was built, will not fail to derive from the comparison so very
favorable to the present times, a satisfaction most worthy the benevolent heart.  Instead of
the rude licentious carousals of the Bellomonts, when the baron domineered, even in drunkenness,
over his assembled slaves, we often see large bodies of the inhabitants of the county, men
worthy of freedom and possessing it, assembled to consider with decorum, and to decide with
unawed, unbiassed judgment, upon measures of no little importance to the kingdom of England.
And instead of the savage violence, or idiot folly which mostly dictated the award of every
kind of property, in those feudal times, we see happily substituted the fair examination of
the witnesses, the eloquent pleadings of the barristers, the learned observations of the Judge,
and the impartial decisions of the Jury, nobly co-operating to investigate truth, and to decide,
according to right, the means alike of happiness and virtue.  In what manner, and by what degrees
this happy change was effected, the following well authenticated anecdote may serve to shew.

Robert de Bellomont, the first earl, sitting in the apartment of the keep of his castle at
Leicester, heard a loud shout in the neighbouring fields.  Enquiring into the cause, he found
that it was given by the partizans of a combatant who was then fighting a duel with his near
relation to ascertain the right to a certain piece of land in St. Mary's field.  The cruelty
and absurdity of such a mode of decision seems to have been forcibly impressed upon the mind
of the earl, by this affecting circumstance; and he agreed with the burgesses and inhabitants
of Leicester, on the payment of one penny for every house that had a gable or gavel in the
High-street (a payment afterwards known by the term gavel pence) that all pleas of the above
mentioned nature should be determined by a jury of twenty four persons.

From the county hall, or castle, as it is commonly called, a road to the right leads to an
antient gate-way strongly built and once furnished with a port-cullis, and every requisite
for defence.  The embattled parapet being much decayed, was taken down a few years ago, and
its roof is now reduced to one of an ordinary form.  When this alteration was made, the arms
of the dukes of Lancaster by whom the gate-way was undoubtedly built were destroyed on the
outside; but on the inside, at the spring of the arch, two mutilated figures, one of a lion,
the other of a bear, doubtless some of their devices, still remain.  The lion passant, it is
well known, formed part of the arms of that family, and the muzzled bear was a symbol used
on the seal by Edward the first in his transactions with Scotland.  Nothing can be more probable
than that the Lancastrian princes would ornament their buildings with a figure which would
serve to preserve the memory of their descent from so renowned a monarch.

The stranger must now be requested to pass thro' the uninviting doorway of the adjoining public
house; and he will be led by an easy ascent up to the mount, or perhaps the scite of the keep
of the castle, which tho' lately lowered considerably for the purpose of converting it into
a Bowling-green, yet affords a pleasant station for a view of the environs of Leicester, and
is the spot from which the best idea can be formed of the antient form and boundaries of the
fortifications.

It is well known that the fast Saxons built few or no castles, for having nearly exterminated
the Britons, during the long continued warfare that preceded their conquest of that people,
they had no occasion for strong fortresses to secure the possession of the territories they
had acquired; and in the later ages of their dynasty they were too indolent and ignorant to
undertake such works with spirit and effect, notwithstanding the frequent and sudden inroads
of the Danes, rendered such places of retreat highly necessary, and the great Alfred earnestly
recommended their construction.  Hence the places of defence found in this island at the conquest,
were few in number, and those generally too slight to resist the continued attacks of time.
For this reason the antiquary need not endeavour to extend his researches after the state of
the castle of Leicester beyond the time of the arrival of William the Norman.  On the division
of the provinces made by that monarch, Leicester became part of the royal demesne; a castle
was erected to ensure the submission of the inhabitants, and the wardenship of it entrusted
to Hugh Grentemaisnell baron of Hinckly, who possessed considerable property in the neighbourhood.
This castle, like other Norman works of the same kind, would have its barbican or out-work,
defending the gate and bridge over the outer ditch would be commanded by a strong wall, eight
or ten feet thick, and between twenty and thirty high, with a parapet, and crennels at the
top, towers at proper distances, and a gate-way opening into the town.  It would, we may presume,
extend from the river below the Newark round by St. Mary's church, and then, turning towards
the river again, whose waters were brought by a cut across the morass lying on the west side,
to wash that part of the wall, and fill the ditch, would thus enclose what was called the outer
Bayle or Ballium.  Within this, at a distance not now to be ascertained, but probably not less
than eighty or an hundred yards, another, similar, but perhaps stronger fortification, would
extend from, and to the river, and this entered at the gates already described, would enclose
the inner Bayle, where stood the lofty massy keep, the hall, and all the apartments and rooms
belonging to the noble and potent owners.  Although the curious will be inclined to join in
the pathetic laments of the writer of the memoirs of Leicester, (Throsby) that the just position
of the castle and its extent in former times cannot be known; yet strong probability will almost
authorize us to believe that the account here given does not vary very widely from the truth;
for these conjectures are directly confirmed by the well still open on the top of the castle
hill or keep, and by the entire remains of a large cellar, forty-nine feet long and eighteen
wide, nearly adjoining the great hall, on the west.  That more traces should not be discoverable
will not appear surprising when we consider what effects may be produced by the decays of time
and accident, by the accumulation of soil, and encroachments of buildings.

During the disputes concerning the succession, on the death of the Conqueror, the Grentemaisnells
seized Leicester castle, and held it for duke Robert.  This subjected it to the fury of the
successful partizans of William Rufus, and the castle lay for some time in a dismantled state.
In the next reign it was granted by Henry to his favourite Robert first earl of Leicester,
who repaired the damages and it became the principal place of residence of himself and the
second earl, Robert Bossu.  The third earl Robert surnamed Blanchmains, encreased his property
and power, by his marriage with Petronilla, or Parnel, the heiress of the Grentemaisnells,
but the violent temper of this earl involved him in disputes with king Henry the second, whose
forces under the command of the Chief Justiciary, Richard de Lucy, took Leicester and its castle
by assault, and reduced both to an almost uninhabited heap of ruins. Blanchmains regained however
the favor of his king and was restored to his estates, but both he and his son, Robert Fitz-Parnel
engaging in the crusades, the town of Leicester was but ill rebuilt, and the castle remained
in a state of delapidation for many years.  Fitz-Parnel dying without issue, the honor of Leicester,
as part of the Bellomont estates were called, passed into the family of Simon de Montfort,
in consequence of his marriage with one of the sisters of Fitz-Parnels.  But the Montfort earls
of Leicester, both father and son, were too much engaged in the busy transactions of their
times to pay much attention to their property at Leicester.  After the death of the latter,
in the Battle of Evesham, the Leicester property was conferred by Henry the third on his second
son Edmond earl of Lancaster, whose second son Henry, heir and successor to Thomas earl of
Lancaster, beheaded at Pontefract, in the year 1322 made Leicester his principal place of residence,
and under him and the two next succeeding earls, the castle recovered and probably surpassed
its former state of splendor.

When the dukes of Lancaster ascended the throne, Leicester tho' frequently honored with their
presence, received no permanent benefit, and tho' several parliaments were held there in the
reign of Henry the sixth, the castle had so far decayed in the time of Richard the third, that
that monarch chose rather to sleep at an inn a few evenings before his fall, than occupy the
royal apartments in the castle.  From this time the castle seems to have made constant progress
to decay, so that in the reign of Charles the first, orders, dated the ninth of his reign,
were issued to the sheriff Wm. Heyrick, Esq. of Beaumanor (as appears from papers in the possession
of that family) "to take down the old pieces of our castle at Leicester, to repair the castle
house, wherein the audit hath been formerly kept, and is hereafter to be kept, and wherein
our records of the honor of Leicester do now remain; to sell the stones, timber, &c. but not
to interfere with the vault there, nor the stalls leading therefrom."

From others of the same papers it appears that the timber sold for 3l. 5s. 8d. the freestone,
and iron work for 36l. 14s. 4d. and that the repairs above ordered cost about 50l.  Thus was
the castle reduced to nearly its present state, and tho' the Antiquary may in the eagerness
of his curiosity lament that so little of it now remains, yet he must surely rejoice in his
reflecting moments that such structures are not now necessary for the defence of the kingdom,
and that the fortunes of the noblemen are now spent in a way calculated to encourage the arts
and promote industry, rather than in maintaining in these castles a set of idle retainers,
ever ready to assist them in disturbing the peace of the realm, and still more ready to insult
and injure the humble inhabitants in then neighbourhood.

Descending from the castle mount, and passing thro' the south gale-way of the castle yard,
the visitor enters a district of the town called the Newark, (New Work) became the edifices
it contained were new when compared with the buildings of the castle.  They owed their foundation
to Henry, the third earl of Lancaster, and his son Henry first duke of that title.  By these
two noblemen they were nearly finished, and what was wanting towards their completion was afterwards
added by John of Gaunt. They must then have formed a magnificent addition to the antient dignity
of the castle.  The remains of the walls which enclosed this area enable us to affirm that
its form was a long square, bounded on the north by the castle, on the east by the streets
of the suburbs of the town, on the south by the fields, and on the west by the river.

Judging from what remains of these walls, we feel inclined to maintain that they were rather
calculated to enclose, than strongly protect, the buildings they surrounded; for if the walls
now standing be the original walls, they were not capable of resisting the modes of attack
usually practised in the age in which they were built; nor is the gate-way that still remains
entire, formed with towers to command, or with grooves for a port-cullis to defend, the entrance.
Indeed if the state of England during the age of the founders be considered, magnificence rather
than great strength might be expected to be their object, and magnificent truly were the buildings
of the Newark.  The gate-way now known by the name of the Magazine, from the circumstance of
its being the arsenal of the county, is large and spacious, yet grandly massive; and the form
of its arches, which partake of the style of the most modern gothic, tho' built at the time
when, according to the opinions of the most learned Antiquaries, that truly beautiful species
of architecture was not generally established, prove the ready attention of the founders to
the progress of the arts.

This gate-way led to an area, which tho' nearly surrounded by buildings, was much more spacious
than the present wide street, an area worthy the dukes of Lancaster.  On the south another
gate, similar to the Magazine now standing, opened into the court opposite the strong south
gate of the castle, and on the west rose a college, a church, and an hospital, which completed
the grandeur of the Newark.  These latter buildings formed a lesser quadrangle or court, having
on the north the present old, or Trinity Hospital, built and endowed for an hundred poor people,
and ten women to serve them.  On the south stood a church dedicated to St. Mary, and cloysters;
the former called by Leland "not large but faire;" the "floures and knottes in whose vault
were gilded," he says, by the rich cardinal of Winchester; the latter, (the cloysters,) were
both "large and faire;" the houses in the compace of the area of the college for the Prebendaries
(standing on the west side) the same author says, "be very praty," and the walls and gates
of the college occupying the east side of the court, he says, "be very stately."  Nor did the
princes of Lancaster limit their designs to magnificent structures; this college was as well
filled as the hospital, for it contained a dean and twelve prebendaries; thirteen vicars choral,
three clerks, six choristers and one verger, in all thirty-six persons; and the endowment was
adequate to the establishment, for the revenues at the dissolution amounted to 595l. 12s. 11d.
Among the various donations to this college, the following taken from the Parliamentary rolls
of the year 1450, will not be found unworthy the attention of the curious.  The king (Henry
the seventh) grants to the dean and Canons of the church collegiate of our lady at Leicester,
"a tunne of wynne to be taken by the chief botteller of England in our port of Kingston upon
Hull," and it is added "they never had no wynne granted to them by us nor our progenitors afore
this time to sing with, nor otherwise."

When it is considered that the castle just surveyed occupies a station most pleasant as well
as commanding; that from the buildings of the Newark it derived all the splendor which the
arts and taste of the times could bestow, and that its adjoining a large, well fortified, and
not ill built town was calculated to contribute most essentially to the convenience of its
possessors, it will appear to have been one of the most agreeable residences in the kingdom
for such powerful noblemen as were the dukes of Lancaster; nor will the visitor be surprised
to find that it was occasionally used as a seat by the kings, its owners.

But of all the periods of its history that will surely appear most interesting, in which Henry
de Gresmond, first earl of Derby, and on the death of his father, earl and then duke of Lancaster,
already renowned thro' Europe for his atchievements in arms, aud crowned with laurels from
the fields of Guienne, where he taught the English how to conquer at Crecy and Agincourt, returned
to reside at Leicester, and to add to the distinction of wise and brave the still more valuable
title of good, which he was about to earn by the practice of almost every virtue at this place.
Then indeed was Leicester castle the scene of true splendor and magnificence, for it was the
scene of bounty influenced by benevolence and guided by religion, of taste supported by expense
yet directed by judgment and regulated by prudence, and of elegance such as the most accomplished
knight of that most perfect age of chivalry might be expected to display.  This nobleman died
of a pestilential disorder at the castle, in the year 1361, greatly lamented by the inhabitants
of Leicester.  The order of his funeral appointed by himself, and curiously recorded by our
local historians, is a pleasing proof of his good sense and piety; the body being taken in
a hearse from St. Mary's near the castle, to his collegiate church as he directed, "without
the pomp of armed men, horses covered, or other vanities"--and the rank of the deceased alone
denoted by the magnitude of five tapers, each weighing one hundred pounds, and fifty torches.

The buildings of the Newark continued nearly in the state already described till the dissolution
of the monasteries in 1538, when Robert Boone the last dean, terrified by the power of the
tyrant Henry, and alarmed by the unjustifiable rigours of the king's commissioners, surrendered
his house and received with the rest of his brethren, trifling pensions for life, from this
period the buildings of the college being unsupported by any fund sunk into decay, or were
applied to purposes widely different from the intention of the founders.  The church, cloysters,
and gate-way are entirely removed, with the exception of two arches of the vault under the
former, which are still to be seen firm and strong in a cellar of the house, now a boarding school.

The old hospital itself seems also to have been infected with the contagion of ruin, for tho'
spared by the rapacious hand of Henry, the number of poor in the house 64 men and 36 women,
are reduced from their original allowance of seven pence weekly, to the now scanty stipend
of two shillings, which arises from the rents of lands and tenements in Leicester, and its
vicinity.  The house has been reduced to its present form by contracting the dimensions of
the old one; for that standing in need of considerable repairs, his present Majesty, to whom,
as heir to the dutchy of Lancaster, the expensive privilege of repairing it belongs, gave the
produce of the sale of an estate at Thurnby in this neighbourhood, which had escheated to the
crown, for that purpose.

At the east end is a small chapel in which prayers are read twice a day, and where some mutilated
monumental figures, probably of the Huntingdon family, are still to be seen.

Nothing farther remains to be noticed concerning this interesting part of the town, except
that the south gateway was beaten down by the king's forces at the storming of the place in
the spring of the year 1645, when they left only a part of the jamb on the eastern side standing.
One of the prebendal houses on the west side of the antient quadrangle of the college has,
within these few years, been purchased for the vicarage house of St. Mary's parish.  Opposite
the old hospital a house has been lately erected as an Asylum for the reception and education
of poor female children.

From the Newark, in a lane opposite to which called Mill-Stone lane, is a Meeting-House of
the Methodists, we proceed along South gate or

HORSEPOOL-STREET,

At the end of this street, situated on a gentle eminence affording the desirable advantages
of a dry soil and open air, we perceive one of those edifices which a country more than nominally
christian must ever be careful to erect, a house of refuge for sick poverty.  The Infirmary,
which owes the origin of its institution to W. Watts, M. D. was built in 1771, nearly on the
scite of the antient chapel of St. Sepulchre, and is a plain neat building with two wings,
fronted by a garden, the entrance to which is ornamented with a very handsome iron gate the
gift of the late truly benevolent Shuckbrugh Ashby, Esq. of Quenby.  The house is built upon
a plan which for its convenience and utility received the approbation of the great Howard,
whose experience and observation qualified him for a competent judge.  It is calculated to
admit, exclusive of the fever ward, 54 patients, without restriction to county or nation. 
Its funds, notwithstanding the exemplary liberality it has excited, are, owing to the pressure
of the times, scarcely adequate to its support.  Adjoining the Infirmary is an Asylum for the
reception of indigent Lunatics.

