District parishes, it will be observed, are separate parishes for Ecclesiastical purposes.
These words affect the question as to the right of the ratepaying parishioners of a new district
voting for the Churchwardens of the old parish.  This they have a right to do on the following
ground:--The Churchwardens of an old parish have functions to perform which are rather secular
than ecclesiastical.  They are in some cases ex-officio Overseers, and in many cases officially
concerned in the management of endowed charities.  The creation therefore of a district for
ecclesiastical purposes does not deprive the inhabitants of the new district of the right which
they had before of voting for Churchwardens in the old civil parish of which they continue
to be ratepayers.  The ratepayers of the whole of the old parish have consequently a right
to vote in vestry at the election of the Churchwardens in the old parish.  The privilege, however,
is not reciprocal, for the ratepayers in the old parish have no similar right of attending
at the vestry and voting for Churchwardens in the new district, because they are elected "for
ecclesiastical purposes" only.

It would be impossible to speak of the duties of Churchwardens without touching upon the vexed
questions of pews.  I suppose that if we could turn the hands of the clock back for some centuries,
and were then legislating for the future of the Church with our experience of the pew system
by a prophetic anachronism clearly present in our minds, we should hardly suggest for legislation
such laws as would bring about the existing state of things.  With the Epistle of St. James
in our thoughts there are some points in our present legal system which most persons find it
difficult to justify.  But it is a thorny subject, and I do not want to dogmatise.  It is,
perhaps, just the one very point with respect to which great caution is needed, much charity,
much forbearance.  You cannot ride rough-shod over old prejudices, or if you do you are sure
sooner or later to suffer for it.  No doubt in theory (to use the words of the Bishop of Carlisle)
the Churchwardens, as the officers of the ordinary, have, subject to him, the sole appointment
and arrangement of the seats.  They are to act to the best of their judgment, and without favour,
to the best advantage of all. {43}  And for the most part, in new Churches, this arrangement
works well.  Either by agreement of the heads of the parish the Church is declared to be in
the popular sense of the term "free and open," which is perhaps on the whole the best of all
or else by mutual forbearance and general co-operation an arrangement is arrived at by which
the worshippers in Church have from time to time seats allotted to them.

It is not, however, in the case of new Churches that difficulties arise, except when these
new Churches take the place of old ones.  Then it may be that the old abuses of faculty pews
and of supposed exclusive rights in certain holdings have to be contended with.  Cases have
occurred where supposed usurpers have been kept out of faculty pews when there is plenty of
room, or of locking up the pew when the so-called owner is absent. Faculty pews are an anomaly,
and I wish there were none, but if the title to them can be proved they are legal and must
be dealt with accordingly. I do not imagine that any new faculties are now issued by the Courts,
but in the rebuilding of old Churches the dealing with existing faculties requires very tender
handling.  It were heartily to be wished that all legal holders of faculty pews would consent
to waive their rights for the future, for the sake of peace and the avoidance of jealousies.
Of course in such a case the Churchwardens would feel it an obligation which it would be their
pleasure to fulfil, to provide those who give up their rights with such accommodation as their
families may require.  But if, as is sometimes the case, they stand exclusively upon their
rights, Churchwardens have no power to abrogate the law, and can only look forward to the future
with hope, either that a short Act of Parliament may be passed enacting that at the death of
the present owner of a faculty pew that particular faculty should cease, and determine, only
excepting (unless with the consent of the owner) cases in which under the Church Building Acts
the faculty was issued in consequence of money paid down for the building of the Church with
the understanding that the faculty would be granted in consequence: or if this be not done
that in the lapse of time some holder of the faculty may regard the matter from an unselfish
standpoint and voluntarily resign his rights.

Meanwhile it is well to remember with regard to existing faculty pews that:--

1.  The form of appropriation in old faculties varies considerably.  In order to ascertain
the wording of a particular faculty application should be made to the Diocesan Registrar.

2.  With regard to pews annexed by prescription to certain messuages the right to the pew passes
with the messuage, the tenant of which for the time being has also de jure for the time being
the prescriptive right to the pew. {46a}

3.  No faculty can be legally granted entitling a non-parishioner to a seat in the body of
the Church. {46b}  Any faculty so worded as to allow this is void as far as that particular
point is concerned.

4.  No faculty gives power either to the owners and occupiers of the house in respect of which
the faculty has been issued to let such seats apart from the houses, or to appropriate them
to other persons.

No Churchwarden should ever allow a parishioner to repair the pew which he may temporarily
occupy.  Such an act, if done with the sanction of the Churchwardens, may in after years seem
to give a claim to proprietorship in that particular pew.  Too great care cannot be taken to
avoid any future misunderstanding.

The matter is too often looked upon as a party question.  The great Duke of Wellington was
no party man, and I cannot forbear from quoting in connection with this subject an extract
from a letter written to my father, the Bishop of Winchester, in 1836, in response to an application
to him to support a Diocesan Church Building Society, which was then in course of formation.
The Duke writes concerning providing accommodation in country Churches as follows:--

    "It has frequently occurred to me that when Church room is required
    the first thing to do is to prevail upon individuals to give up the
    pews which they cannot use . . . If more space was required I should
    propose that all pews should be given up, that the whole space of the
    Church should be laid open for the accommodation of all the
    parishioners indiscriminately, separate chairs of a cheap description
    being provided for their accommodation.  This being done, and space
    being still required for the accommodation of the parishioners in
    their attendance upon Divine Service, I would propose to consider the
    mode of enlarging the Church, or if that could not be effected, of
    building another Church or Chapel.  It must never be forgotten that
    another Church or Chapel would require the attendance of another
    Clergyman, who must live and must be remunerated.  He can be
    remunerated only by the sale or hire of the pews and places in the
    new place of Divine worship; and here again would commence the evil
    which has in my opinion been the most efficient cause of the
    non-attendance at Divine worship of the lower classes of the people
    of this country." {48}

Surely these words, which (bearing in mind who was the writer of them) cannot be supposed to
have been the offspring of heated ecclesiastical partisanship, are well worthy of consideration,
even after the lapse of more than half a century.  It does, indeed, seem sad that parochial
difficulties should so often arise in respect of Church sittings.  There is no part of the
parochial machinery which more requires the free application of the oil of common sense--Christian
charity and a true spirit of forbearing courtesy in order to avoid friction.  Blessed are the
peacemakers.

Difficulties not unfrequently arise in connection with the conveyance of buildings or of land
to be used not only for public worship, but also for meetings, classes, etc.  The subject was
under the consideration of the Committee of the Incorporated Church Building Society in 1889,
and with the co-operation of their legal advisers a statement was issued clearly pointing out
the advantages and the disadvantages of the several modes of procedure possible.  With the
permission of the Church Building Society's Committee, I add in Appendix X a summary of the
conveniences and inconveniences of the several Acts.  The Minister and Churchwardens are not
a corporation with perpetual succession under the common law, though often supposed so to be
because they are specially so made for the purpose of carrying out the Schools Sites' Acts.
The advisers of the Church Building Society on the whole recommend that a conveyance should
be made to individual Trustees, "which will be good according to the ordinary law of mortmain
as a charitable conveyance, the only real objection to this being that if the conveyance be
a gift, without price paid, it will fail if the grantor dies within twelve months."  A form
of such conveyance has been settled for the parish of Staines.  This form has been printed
by the Church Building Society, but they recommend that it should be amended by adding a power,
to be used if a consecrated Church is eventually built on the land, to revoke the trusts and
convey the land and building for the purpose of a Church to any person or body lawfully authorised
to accept such conveyance.  If the Staines form is not adopted, it is on the whole recommended
that action should be taken under 43 Geo. III, cap. 108. {50}

I pass on to another point.  On a vacancy occurring in an incumbency either through the resignation
or death of the Incumbent, certain duties of considerable importance devolve upon the Churchwardens.
During the vacancy they are in charge of the temporalities of the incumbency, and therefore
it is necessary that a sequestration of the living should be issued, empowering them to do
such things as are necessary in connection therewith.  Application should at once be made with
reference to this to the Bishop's Registrar.  It is then their duty to see that Church property,
whether in connection with the fabric, endowment, or glebe, suffers no loss during the vacancy.
They have also to provide for the services in Church and any occasional duty which may arise.
A newly-appointed Incumbent does not become legally responsible for this until he has been
instituted, or collated, as the case may be.  But it would be well always if the Churchwardens,
immediately on an appointment being notified to them, should communicate with the Incumbent-elect
and consult with him as to the best mode of providing for the duty.  It is well that Churchwardens
should know that the license of a Curate does not lapse in consequence of the death of the
Incumbent.  Six weeks' notice within six months after institution is legally necessary if a
change is to be made. {52a}  The widow of a deceased Incumbent has a right to remain in the
parsonage house for two calendar months subsequent to the death of her husband. {52b}  All
these points should, if possible, be made a matter of friendly arrangement, but the actual
law of the case is as I have stated it.

There is one question sometimes asked by Churchwardens to which it may be well to refer.  Have
they the custody of the keys of the Church, the appointment of the organist, control over the
Church music, and over the ringing of the Church bells?

With regard to the keys of the Church.  It is the undoubted fact that the church is the freehold
of the Incumbent, subject, of course, to the right of the parishioners to be present in it
at all legal Services of a religious character.  It may be often convenient that the Churchwardens
should have a duplicate key of the Church, in order that they may be able to fulfil their duties
in connection with the survey of the fabric, or for other causes, but this must be clearly
understood to be subject to the will of the Incumbent.

The same with regard to the musical portion of the Service or appointment of the organist.
Lord Stowell's words are:--

    "The Minister has the right of directing the Service, e.g., when
    the organ shall and shall not play, and when children shall chaunt
    and shall not chaunt, though the organist is paid and the children
    managed by the Churchwardens." {53}

Nothing can be clearer or stronger than this.

So too with regard to the Church bells.  The Churchwardens have the custody of the bells, and
the bell ropes are in most cases Church property placed under their charge, but the law with
reference to the ringing of the bells is undoubted; that for any occasion except that of Divine
Service the permission of the Incumbent is absolutely necessary for the ringing of the bells.
Without that permission they cannot be rung. {54}

There is one further point on which a question sometimes arises in connection with offertories
and collections in church.  With reference to offertories gathered at the time of the celebration
of Holy Communion at an ordinary Service the Churchwardens and Incumbent are expressly directed
by the rubric to dispose of them to such pious and charitable uses as they shall think fit,
wherein if they disagree it shall be disposed of as the Ordinary shall appoint.  The Incumbent
has the responsibility of arranging with reference to collections made not in connection with
the celebration of the Holy Communion.  Incumbents are thankful when the Churchwardens help
them with their advice as to what objects shall be brought before the congregation.  In the
case of all collections, for whatsoever purpose they be made, it is most desirable for the
avoiding of any possible difficulty that a written statement should be put upon the Church
door on the Sunday after, stating the amount of the collections made on the previous Sunday.
If the collection be made for any charitable or missionary society the official receipt for
the money collected and sent should also be affixed to the church door.

This leads me to mention another point of considerable importance.  In these days of monetary
difficulties and agricultural depression the frequency of offertories is often a question difficult
of solution.  It is perhaps still more difficult wisely to decide the objects for which the
offertory shall be made.  With regard to local objects there can of course be no question.
We recognise in these days the power of the pence, and no one grumbles at the collection of
money for purely parochial purposes.  But it is when our people are asked for money for objects
outside the parish that the difficulty really arises.  But it ought to be remembered that we
do not lead individual isolated lives apart from our fellows.  The parish is not the centre
of the universe. The tendency of the uneducated mind is to isolate itself from the interests
of others, and to look at all matters from a purely selfish point of view.  The parish is an
accidental collection of individual souls in a particular diocese.  The diocese is an aggregation
of separate parishes scattered through an assigned area.  The members of the Church in a particular
parish and diocese are members of the Holy Catholic Church, which by its very nomenclature
abrogates individual isolation. It follows, therefore, that parochial interests must not absorb
attention to the exclusion of larger and less personal objects.  The Body is one, and the members
of the Body should work together for the good of the whole.  Corporate as well as individual
life is a reality, and this fact must not be lost sight of in connection with our offertories.
I venture to say that a parish which confines its offertories to local and parochial purposes
will lose by the very contraction of its sympathies. The duty that lies upon us as trustees
of God's gifts to utilize them for His honour and glory, should be pointed out.  The privilege
of being allowed to help with our substance, those who stand in need of our assistance, should
be duly urged; and the warmth which is thus kindled in the heart towards others will react
in infusing fresh life into the support of parochial institutions.  The habit of giving grows
by use. The blood must not stagnate round the heart, or the extremities will soon suffer. 
Your fingers die because the action of the heart is weak.  The promise is that "He that watereth
others shall be watered also himself."

I have no intention of entering into many details in this matter, but I cannot be wrong in
enforcing this principle.  Church work at home and abroad, as distinct from parochial organizations,
should be systematically brought before all congregations however small: Church work at home,
including home missions; and Church work abroad, including foreign missionary societies.

Let me give very emphatically this caution.  If aggrieved parishioners come to a Churchwarden
and endeavour to persuade him to join a cave of Adullam, he should be careful not to be rash
or hasty in his answer.  He must not take all for granted which heated partisans may allege,
but remember there are always two sides to every question.  We are none of us infallible in
our judgment, and many matters after consultation with others assume a very different aspect
to that which at first sight they seemed to present.  If difficulties arise he must not threaten.
It does more harm than good.  Let him try what conciliation will do.  Let him see whether common
ground of action cannot be found.  Certainly it is unwise to rush into print; it only tends
to inflame the smouldering embers of a quarrel which, but for the unfortunate publicity given
to it, might soon have come to a happy termination.

Churchwardens must work with the Clergy and the Clergy with the Churchwardens if they are to
be a blessing in the parish in which they are elected to serve.  They have not been brought
by chance into connection with the Incumbent of their parish, for chance is not a word to be
found in the Christian's dictionary.

With regard to all these cases, if difficulties arise in connection with any of them it is
seldom, if ever, wise to stand out for strict law.  If the matter cannot be settled amicably
the interposition of the Rural Dean or Archdeacon, or, as a final resort, the Bishop, will
often smooth a wrinkled brow and restore to a parish the inestimable blessing of peace.

It is because I feel the great importance and usefulness of the office of a Churchwarden, that
I have ventured, in accordance with the wish so kindly expressed by those to whom the foregoing
words were in substance addressed, to publish them in this more permanent form; and I have
only to express the hope that they may be found useful in pointing out to Churchwardens that
their office, far from being a sinecure, may, if faithfully used, tend very directly to the
furtherance of our common Master's cause, and that work done by them in a spirit of faith and
love will not lose its reward in the great Hereafter.

                                                   GEORGE HENRY GUILDFORD.

THE CLOSE, WINCHESTER, August, 1897.

APPENDIX I.

QUEEN'S BENCH DIVISION. (Before LORD COLERIDGE and MR. JUSTICE MATHEW.) THE QUEEN V. HARDING,
VICAR OF BECKENHAM.

This case raised the question whether, in new parishes under the Church Building Acts, it is
necessary that Churchwardens shall be residents in the parish or whether it is enough that
they are rated occupiers.  The question had arisen under these circumstances.  There was a
new Church built and consecrated in Beckenham, Kent, in 1875, and by an Order in Council in
1878 a district was constituted and annexed to it under the Church Building Act, 59 Geo. III,
cap. 134, sec. 16, constituting a "district chapelry."  In 1885, on the death of the Incumbent,
all the fees of the district became due and payable to the Minister of the new Church, and
then, by the operation of Lord Blandford's Act (19 and 20 Vict., cap. 104), the district became
a separate parish for ecclesiastical purposes; and the question was what effect this had as
to the election of Churchwardens.  Under 8 and 9 Vict., cap. 70, sec. 6, it was provided that
"two fit and proper persons should be annually elected Churchwardens, they residing within
the district;" and if that statute applied, it was admitted the Churchwardens must be resident.
But it was disputed whether it did apply, or whether at common law Churchwardens must be resident.
In Lord Blandford's Act it is provided, in sec. 14, that wherever and as soon as banns of marriage
are authorised to be published in a consecrated Church or Chapel to which a district belongs,
and the Incumbent is by such authority entitled, for his own benefit, to the fees arising from
the performance of such services, then such district shall become and be a separate parish
for ecclesiastical purposes, as is contemplated in 6 and 7 Vict., cap. 37, sec. 15, and all
the provisions of the same shall apply; and then, under that Act, sec. 15, when any Church
or Chapel shall be built, etc., such district shall from and after consecration be deemed to
be a new parish for ecclesiastical purposes.  This, however, did not in terms, it will be seen,
deal with the present question, and appeared to leave it open, and so it will be seen it was
discussed in the alternative on the ground that at common law Churchwardens must be resident,
and that is not altered by one Act, and is re-enacted in the other.  However, in the present
case it appeared that it had not been so understood, and on April 25, 1889, when, at Easter,
two Churchwardens were chosen for the new district parish of Christ Church, Beckenham, one
of them was a gentleman who had been chosen in previous years, and who is not a resident, though
he is a rated occupier in the parish.  The gentleman in question, a Mr. Matthews, was elected
by a majority of three; no objection was taken at the time, but afterwards his opponent, a
Mr. Hayland, desired to raise the objection, and on June 24th last obtained a rule nisi for
a mandamus to the vicar to hold a new election of churchwarden on the ground that the election
of Mr. Matthews was invalid, as he was not a resident in the parish, he having premises there,
a "store" and some stabling for which he was rated, but not living in the parish.  The case
now came on to be argued.

Mr. Dibden appeared for the applicant.

Mr. Jeune, Q.C. (with Mr. Houghton), appeared on the part of the vicar to show cause.

Lord Coleridge said, in giving judgment, that the party elected was not entitled to hold the
office.  The effect of the statute was that the new parish was to be treated for all purposes
as the old one--that it was to be subject to the same law.  Now, it was necessary under the
old law that churchwardens should be living in the parish.  This gentleman was not so; and
therefore was not under the old law "a fit and proper person" to hold the office of churchwarden.
The Churchwarden had to discharge various duties which required knowledge of the parish and
parishioners.  It was said that there were authorities to the contrary in the Ecclesiastical
Courts; but speaking of them with the utmost respect, those were ecclesiastical cases, and
this was a common law case--that is, a case to be decided by the common law--and he did not
think that by the common law a party not living in the parish, and perhaps living at a distance,
was qualified to be elected, and, if elected, bound to serve the office of churchwarden.  It
appeared to be clear, rating would not be enough.  It was admitted that there must be some
kind of occupation equivalent to actual residence, and in the present case there was nothing
of the kind. No doubt the parishioners were glad to have a respectable gentleman to fill the
office.  No doubt the word "residence" had received under different statutes different interpretations,
the sense being necessarily different.  Sometimes it meant where a man could be found during
the day; sometimes it meant where he slept or lived; and for some purposes perhaps this gentleman
might be deemed a resident, but for this purpose it was necessary that he should live in the
parish, be acquainted with the parishioners, and thus be able to exercise the duties of his
office, which were to be personally exercised.  The rule for a mandamus to the vicar, therefore,
must be made absolute.

Mr. Justice Mathew concurred.

Rule absolute for a mandamus.

                                        From the Times, Nov. 29th, 1889.

APPENDIX II.

7 Gul. IV, and 1 Vict., cap. 45, sec. 3.

Be it further enacted that no such notice of holding a Vestry shall be affixed on the principal
door of such Church or Chapel unless the same shall previously have been signed by a Churchwarden
of the Church or Chapel, or by the Rector, Vicar, or Curate of such parish, or by an Overseer
of the Poor of such parish; but that every notice so signed shall be affixed on or near to
the principal door of such Church or Chapel.

APPENDIX III.

58 Geo. III, cap. 69, 3rd June, 1818. An Act for the Regulation of Parish Vestries.

Sec. 2.--For the more orderly conduct of Vestries be it further enacted that in case the Rector,
or Vicar, or perpetual Curate, shall not be present the persons so assembled in pursuance of
such notice shall forthwith nominate and appoint, by plurality of votes to be ascertained as
hereinafter is directed, one of the inhabitants of such parish to be the Chairman of and preside
in every such Vestry; and in all cases of equality of votes upon any question arising therein
the Chairman shall, in addition to such vote or votes as he may by virtue of this Act be entitled
to give in right of his assessment, have the casting vote; and minutes of the proceedings and
resolutions of every Vestry shall be fairly and distinctly entered in a book, to be provided
for that purpose by the Churchwardens and Overseers of the Poor, and shall be signed by the
Chairman and by such other of the inhabitants present as shall think proper to sign the same.

