          (Signed)           CH. ARESKINE. Causa scientiæ patet; and this
is truth, as he shall answer to God.

          (Signed)           DONALD FARQUHARSON.
                             P. GRANT.

ALEXANDER M'PHERSON alias M^CGILLAS, in Inverey, being solemnly sworn, purged of malice and
partial council, and interrogate, aged twenty-six years, unmarried, Depones, That in summer
one thousand seven hundred and fifty, he found lying in a moss bank in the hill of Christie,
a human body, at least the bones of a human body, of which the flesh was mostly consumed, and
he believed it to be the body of Serjeant Davies, because it was reported in the country that
he had been murdered in that hill the year before. That when he first found this body, there
was a bit of blue cloth upon it pretty entire, which he took to be what is called English cloth;
he also found the hair of the deceased, which was of a dark mouse colour, and tied about with
a black ribbon: That he also observed some pieces of a stripped stuff, and found also lying
there a pair of brogues, which had been made with latches for buckles, which had been cut away
by a knife: That he, by help of his staff, brought out the body, and laid it upon plain ground,
in doing whereof some of the bones were separated one from another: Depones, That for some
days he was in a doubt what to do, but meeting with John Growar in the moss, he told John what
he had found, and John bid him tell nothing of it, otherways he would complain of the deponent
to John Shaw of Daldownie, upon which the deponent resolved to prevent Growar's complaint,
and go and tell Daldownie of it himself; and which having accordingly done, Daldownie desired
him to conceal the matter, and go and bury the body privately, as it would not be carried to
a kirk unkent, and that the same might hurt the country, being under the suspicion of being
a rebel country: Depones, That some few days thereafter, he acquainted Donald Farquharson,
the preceding witness, of his having seen the body of a dead man in the hill, which he took
to be the body of Serjeant Davies: That Farquharson at first doubted the truth of his information,
till the deponent having told him that a few nights before when he was in bed, a vision appeared
to him as of a man clad in blue, who told the deponent, "I am Serjeant Davies;" but that before
he told him so, the deponent had taken the said vision at first appearance to be a real living
man, a brother of Donald Farquharson's: That the deponent rose from his bed, and followed him
to the door, and then it was, as has been told, that he said he was Serjeant Davies who had
been murdered in the Hill of Christie, about near a year before, and desired the deponent to
go to the place he pointed at, where he would find his bones, and that he might go to Donald
Farquharson, and take his assistance to the burying of him: That upon giving Donald Farquharson
this information, Donald went along with him, and finding the bones as he informed Donald,
and having then buried it with the help of a spade which he the deponent had alongst with him:
And for putting what is above deponed upon out of doubt, Depones, that the above vision was
the occasion of his going by himself to see the dead body, and which he did before he either
spoke to John Growar, Daldownie, or any other body: And further Depones, that while he was
in bed another night after he had first seen the body by himself, but had not buried it, the
vision again appeared naked, and minded him to bury the body; and after that he spoke to the
other folks above mentioned, and at last complied, and buried the bones above mentioned: Depones,
That upon the vision's first appearance to the deponent in his bed, and after going out of
the door, and being told by it he was Serjeant Davies, the deponent asked him who it was that
had murdered him, to which it made this answer, that if the deponent had not asked him, he
might have told him, but as he had asked him, he said he either could not or would not, but
which of the two expressions the deponent cannot say; but at the second time the vision made
its appearance to him, the deponent renewed the same question, and then the vision answered,
that it was the two men now in the panel that had murdered him: And being further interrogate
in what manner the vision disappeared from him first and last, Depones, That after the short
interviews above mentioned, the vision at both times disappeared and vanished out of his sight
in the twinkling of an eye; and that in describing the panels by the vision above mentioned
as his murderers, his words were, Duncan Clerk and Alexander Macdonald: Depones, That the conversation
betwixt the deponent and the vision was in the Irish language: Depones, That several times
in the harvest before the Martinmas after seeing the said vision, he was applied to by Duncan
Clerk, the panel, then to enter home to his service at that time, which accordingly he did,
and staid in his service just a year, and he being in the hill together with Duncan Clerk,
spying a young cow, desired the deponent to shoot it; and tho Duncan did not bid him carry
it home after it should be shot, yet the deponent understood that to be the purpose, when Duncan
desired him to shoot it, and which the deponent refused to do, adding, that it was such thoughts
as these were in his head when he murdered Serjeant Davies, upon which some angry expressions
happened between Duncan and the deponent; but when the deponent insisted upon it that he could
not deny the murder, Duncan fell calm, and desired the deponent to say nothing of that matter,
and that he would be a brother to him, and give him every thing he stood in need of, and particularly
would help him to stock a farm when he took one; and the time of deponing, the deponent exhibited
a paper, which is marked on the back by the Lord Examiner, the deponent averring he cannot
write: And depones, That the said paper was put in his hands by the said Duncan Clerk, who
at the time told him it was a premium of twenty pounds Scots to hold his tongue of what he
knew of Serjeant Davies: Depones, That while the deponent was in the panel Duncan Clerk's service,
and about Lammas seventeen hundred and fifty-one, he showed to the deponent a long green silk
purse, and that he showed also to the deponent the contents which were in it, viz. sixteen
guineas in gold, and some silver: And being interrogate what was the occasion of showing this
purse and money to the deponent, Depones, it was one of two which he does not remember, either
he had come from Aberdeen with money, which he had got for his wool, or was going to Badenoch
to buy sheep: Depones, That he saw upon the finger of Elizabeth Downie, the panel Duncan Clerk's
wife, a yellow ring, which she told him was gold, with a plate on the outside of it, in the
form of a seal, and that he saw it on her finger six or eight weeks before her marriage; and
that after her marriage, she having one day taken it off her finger, he saw upon the inside
of it a stamp, but what that stamp is he does not know. And being interrogate, Depones, That
he had a suspicion that this ring was Serjeant Davies's ring, having heard it reported in the
country that Serjeant Davies had such a ring upon his finger when he was murdered, but does
not remember his having told his suspicion to any body; and being further interrogate, depones,
That since the panel Duncan's imprisonment, the deponent was solicited by Donald Clerk, the
panel Duncan's brother, to conceal what he knew when he came to give evidence; but this was
after his having first solicited the deponent to leave the country, that he might not give
evidence, and upon the deponent's saying he offered him nothing to leave the country with;
but then it was that Donald proposed his not giving true evidence, adding, that of every penny
Donald was worth, the deponent should have the half; and being interrogate, at the desire of
the Jury, if ever he had asked payment of the twenty pounds contained in the above-mentioned
paper produced by him, Depones, That he once did, shortly after the term of payment, to which
Duncan answered, that it would be as well to let it ly in his hands, to which he was satisfied,
and that he never asked payment of the annual rent; and being further interrogate, Depones,
that before the deponent went home to the panel's service at Martinmas one thousand seven hundred
and fifty, it was well known and reported in the country that the bones of the dead body found
upon the above mentioned hill had been buried by the deponent and Donald Farquharson, as also
was the story of the vision or apparition whereof the deponent had told Donald Farquharson;
and being interrogate for the panel, Depones, that he not only told the story of the vision
or apparition to Donald Farquharson, as above mentioned, but that he also told it to John Growar
and Daldownie before he mentioned it to Donald Farquharson: Depones, That there were folks
living with him at the sheilling the time the vision appeared to him as above, but that he
told it to none of them; and adds, that Isobel M'Hardie, in Inveray, a woman then in the sheilling
with him, has told him since, that she saw such a vision as the deponent has above described,
and has told him herself so much; and upon the panel's interrogatory, depones, that upon the
vision's appearing to him, it described the place where he would find the bones so exactly,
that he went within a yard of the place where they lay upon his first going out: And this is
the truth, as he shall answer to God; and depones he cannot write.

          (Signed)           JA. FERGUSON.

Compeared Duncan Campbell, one of the captains of the City Guard of Edinburgh, and was solemnly
sworn, as he should answer to God, that he should interrogate in the Irish language such of
the witnesses as should be afterwards adduced in this trial, as could not speak or understand
the English language, and reduce the depositions, as they should emit the same, faithfully
in the English language into writing.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             JA. FERGUSON. Causa
scientiæ patet. And this is truth, as she shall answer to God. And
this deposition is subscribed by the said sworn interpreter.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             JA. FERGUSON.

Compeared, JAMES MACDONALD in Allanquoich, solemnly sworn, purged of malice and partial council,
aged thirty-one years, married, examined and interrogate: Depones, That it is about two or
three years since Clerk, the panel, was married to Elizabeth Downie, Alexander Downie's daughter,
and hearing it reported in the country, that he should have said, that if his son-in-law had
not killed Serjeant Davies, Serjeant Davies would have killed him: That the deponent asked
of Alexander Downie, about lentron last, whether he had said so? and Alexander Downie acknowledged
to him that he had said so: And the deponent heard that the occasion of this report in the
country was, that Alexander Downie being at a miln, some of the people there upbraided Alexander
Downie with his son-in-law Clerk, the panel, his having killed the said Serjeant: And Downie
said, as the deponent heard, what could his son-in-law do, since it was in his own defence:
Depones further, That he saw upon Elizabeth Downie, Clerk's wife, her thumb, a yellow ring,
which he took to be gold; and this he saw after her marriage, having a little knap upon it
like into a seal, having scores or lines round about it, and this he saw frequently upon her
hand, which ring the deponent suspected to be Serjeant Davies's ring, and it was so suspected
in the country. Causa scientiæ patet. And this is the truth: And says further, That Clerk the
panel, was reputed to be guilty of thieving in the country, but that he heard nothing to the
prejudice of M'Donald's character: And being interrogate for the panel, depones, That he never
heard Clerk the panel, guilty of any particular theft except one of a parcel of sheep, from
one Alexander Farquharson in Inverey, about nine or ten years ago. All which is truth, as he
shall answer to God; and depones he cannot write.

          (Signed)           ALEX^R FRASER.

Compeared PETER M'NAB in Wester Micras, aged fifty-seven years, solemnly sworn, purged of malice
and partial council, examined and interrogate: Depones, That it is now about four years ago,
since he heard it reported in the country, that the two men, Clerk and Macdonald, the panels,
were the people who murdered Serjeant Davies, and a little time after Elizabeth Downie was
married to Clerk the panel: The deponent happened to be in Alexander Downie her father's house,
and then saw upon her finger a ring, pretty massy, having a lump upon it pretty large; and
the deponent got the ring into his hand, and the lump appeared to the deponent to be something
in the shape of a heart: And the deponent asked Elizabeth Downie how she came by that ring?
to which she answered, that she had bought it from one James Lauder, a merchant: The deponent
replied, that he thought it was cheap and worth more money, and that it was reported in the
country, that the said Elizabeth Downie was wearing rings of Serjeant Davies's, but he never
saw her have any but that one: And further adds, that he never heard any other suspected of
the murder of Serjeant Davies but the panels, except once, that it was suspected to have been
done by caterers; and he also heard, for a twelvemonth after Serjeant Davies was amissing,
that he had deserted; nevertheless the general report or belief of the country was, that the
two panels had murdered him. Causa scientiæ patet. And this is the truth, as he shall answer
to God.

          (Signed)           PETER MACNAB.
                             ALEX^R FRASER. Causa
scientiæ patet. And this is the truth, as she shall answer to God; and
depones she cannot write. And this deposition is subscribed by the
foresaid sworn interpreter.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             ALEX^R FRASER.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             ALEX^R FRASER.
Depones, That the Hill of Christie, libelled, is about a mile's
distance to the entrance thereof from the place where he then was, and
that it will be at least three miles from there to the place where the
bones were found. Depones, That he was told that Isobel Ego, a
preceding witness, found a hat in the Hill of Christie, which she
brought home and delivered to her master: That he heard her master hid
it at the Burnside, under a stone: That some time thereafter some of
the bairns of Inverey found the said hat, and brought it to his the
deponent's father's house, where he saw it; and the hat libelled being
shown to him, depones, he having inspected it, That it is the same hat
which was so brought to his father's house, and pointed out the letters
D. A. thereon at deponing, and that he himself delivered the said hat
to James Small, factor on the estate of Strowan.
                             ALEX^R FRASER. And about a year and a half after the Serjeant
had been amissing, he heard Duncan Clerk the panel named as one of
them, but never heard any thing of Alexander Macdonald, the other
panel, till he was committed prisoner to the Castle of Braemar in
September last. Causa scientiæ patet. And this is the truth, as he
shall answer to God.

          (Signed)           JOHN COOK.
                             HEW DALRYMPLE. Causa scientiæ patet. And this is the truth,
as he shall answer to God. This deposition signed by Duncan Campbell,
sworn interpreter.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             HEW DALRYMPLE. Causa scientiæ patet. And this is
truth, as he shall answer to God.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             HEW DALRYMPLE.
And further depones, That the said knob was bigger above and smaller
below, and shaped something like a heart.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             HEW DALRYMPLE.

JOHN GROWAR, in Inverey, aged fifty years and upwards, a widower; who
being solemnly sworn, purged of partial council, and interrogate,
Depones, That upon the 28th of September, 1749, the deponent having
gone to a glen called Glenconie, to bring home his horses to lead in
the corns, he met with Serjeant Davies, of whom he had some
acquaintance before; and he had at that time a good deal of
conversation with him, particularly with relation to a tartan coat
which the Serjeant had observed the deponent to drop, and after
strictly enjoining him not to use it again, dismissed him, instead of
making him prisoner: That the deponent went home with his horses, and
saw no more of the Serjeant, who was alone; and that their meeting was
about an hour after sunrising, to the best of the deponent's knowledge:
That some time thereafter, about four years ago, he was told by
Alexander Macpherson alias M'Gillies, a former witness, that the
Serjeant's ghost had appeared to him, M'Gillies, and had desired him to
bury his, the Serjeant's, bones, and to bring Donald Farquharson, also
a former witness, along with him; but M'Gillies at that time did not
mention the place where the bones were to be found, but afterwards told
the deponent that the Serjeant's bones were found in the place to which
the ghost had directed him; and one day the said M'Gillies and the
deponent being in the hill together, he, M'Gillies, pointed to him the
place where they were found, which was not far from the place in which
he had formerly met Serjeant Davies, upon the 28th of September
aforesaid; and that two years ago, in labouring time, the said
M'Gillies told him that the said ghost came to M'Gillies's master's
house, and the door flung open, and took M'Gillies out of the house,
and told him that the panels had been his murderers. Depones, That
about two years ago he had a conversation with M'Gillies, who told him,
that one day coming from the hill with Duncan Clerk, the panel, then
his master, and another time when in bed, he had a conversation with
the said Duncan concerning Serjeant Davies's murder, and all the answer
Duncan made was, What can you say of an unfortunate man? Depones, That
about ten or eleven years ago, Duncan Clerk, the panel, was said to
have stolen some sheep from one Alexander Farquharson, in Inverey, and
there was a Sheriff-court held upon that matter at the Mill of
Achindryne, in which nothing was found against the said Duncan, but
John Ewes alias M'Donald was fined, and the deponent became cautioner
for him, that he should never speak about it again.
                             HEW DALRYMPLE.

ANGUS CAMERON, in Easter Finart, Rannach, aged thirty years and upwards, solemnly sworn, purged
of malice and partial council, by Duncan Campbell, sworn interpreter, and by him interrogate,
Depones, That he was in Braemaar four years past at Michaelmas last; that is, in the year 1749:
That about an hour and a half before sun-set on the 28th of September, he being on the hill
of Galcharn, on the side thereof, saw a man in a blue coat, with a gun in his hand, with a
hat which had a white edging about it, he knows not whether it was silver or not; and saw other
two men, one of whom was the panel Duncan Clerk, who he had seen upon former occasions, and
another man of a lower stature than the said Duncan Clerk, coming up the hill towards the first
mentioned man, who was distant from him, the deponent, about a gunshot, upon, or near the top
of a hill opposite to him, the deponent, the name of which he does not know, he being a stranger
in that country; that there was another man along with him, the deponent, named Duncan Cameron,
and that they were waiting there for other travellers, and his said companion is dead about
three years ago: Depones, That he saw Duncan Clerk, the panel, and his companion, whom he did
not, nor does not know, meet with the man clad in blue, as aforesaid; and after they had stood
for some time together, he saw Duncan Clerk, the panel, strike at the man in blue, as he thought,
with his naked hand only, upon the breast; but, upon the stroke, he heard the man struck cry
out, and clap his hand upon the place struck, turn about, and go off: That the panel Duncan
Clerk and the other man stood still for a little, and then followed after the man in blue,
and saw him, the said Duncan and the other man, each of whom had a gun, fire at the man in
blue: That the two shots were very near one another; and immediately upon them, the man in
blue fell: That Duncan Clerk, the panel, had upon him a grey plaid, with some red in it, whom
he saw that same day, and his companion along with him, (but spoke to none of them,) about
mid-day, and that they passed him as he was lying upon the same hill; and that both times that
same day, that he had occasion to see the said Duncan Clerk and his companion, he was lying
in a little hollow upon the side of the said hill of Galcharn, in such a manner, as he thinks,
neither the said Duncan Clerk, or his companion did see him: And depones, That there was no
long heather in the said hollow where he was lying: Depones, That after the man in blue fell,
in manner above mentioned, the panel Duncan Clerk, and his companion, went up to him; and as
it was the deponent's opinion the man was dead, he saw them stoop down, and handle his body;
and while they were so employed, he, the deponent, and his companion, got up, and made off:
Depones, That he did not mention any thing of the premises to any body for nine months or a
twelve month, and then he spoke of it to one Donald Cameron, and to Duncan Cameron, a different
man from him above mentioned, who advised him to say nothing of it, as it might get ill-will
to himself, and bring trouble on the country; some people that he told it to said, that people
would not believe him, but rather think he was telling lies: That it was six months after what
he saw, and has deponed upon, that he heard that Serjeant Davies was amissing. And being interrogate
for the panels, depones, That he came to the said hill of Galcharn, and lay down in the hollow
about two hours after sun-rising; and depones, That he and his companion were, the night before
the twenty-eighth of September aforesaid, in Glenbruar Braes, which is about ten miles distant
from the hill of Galcharn; and that he left these braes about the end of said night; and that
the travellers that he expected to pass that day were Donald Cameron, who was afterwards hanged,
together with some of the said Donald's companions from Lochaber.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             HEW DALRYMPLE.
                             GILB. ELLIOT.
                             GILB. ELLIOT. Causa scientiæ patet. And this is
the truth, as he shall answer to God.

          (Signed)           LAUCHLAN M'INTOSH.
                             GILB. ELLIOT. And further depones, being
interrogate for the panel, That when she first saw Duncan Clerk, she
was among the corns with his father a little below the town, and that
Duncan was about a gun-shot from her, coming towards his father's house
from the hill, and that he came near to the place where she was with
his father.

Follows the Witnesses adduced by the Panels in exculpation.
                             HEW DALRYMPLE.

DUNCAN KEIR, in Glenmuick, aged twenty and upwards, unmarried, solemnly sworn, purged and interrogate,
Depones, That the day that the Braemaar men were going to the Michaelmas fair in Strathaven,
which was the day before the said fair held, he saw Duncan Clerk, the panel, at Gleney, where
the deponent then lived, before he and the other shearers there had got their dinner, and that
they dined sometimes later and sometimes more early, and cannot tell at what time they dined
that day, but the sun was a good while high when he saw him: That he had on a plaid, which
he thinks was grey: That Gleney is a mile farther up the water than Inverey towards the hill;
and the next day, after he saw the said Duncan Clerk as above, he heard that Serjeant Davies
was amissing.

ELIZABETH MACDONALD, in Tulloch of Invercauld, aged twenty-eight years, unmarried, solemnly
sworn, purged and interrogate by the sworn interpreter aforesaid, Depones, That the day before
she heard Serjeant Davies was amissing, she saw Duncan Clerk, the panel, at the shearers of
Gleney, but did not observe from whence he came: That she does not remember that he had either
a gun or a plaid, but thinks that he had a short blue coat upon him, and that Gleney is a mile
farther up the water towards the hill than Inverey: That when she saw the said panel it was
before dinner, which they took early that day, being betwixt twelve and one; and that Duncan
Keir, the preceding witness, was one of the said shearers; and that Gleney is about a mile
from Glenconie.

          (Signed)           DUNCAN CAMPBELL.
                             HEW DALRYMPLE.

The Lords Commissioners of Justiciary fine and amerciate Ronald Macdonald, brother to James
Macdonald in Allanquoich, and Alexander Macintosh alias Reoch, now servant to Thomas Gordon
of Fetterletter, in Strathaven, and each of them, in the sum of one hundred merks Scots money,
for their not appearing this day and place, to bear leal and soothfast witnessing, in so far
as they knew, or should be asked at them, anent the said panels, Duncan Terig alias Clerk,
and Alexander Bain Macdonald, their guiltiness of the crime of murder mentioned in the said
indictment, raised at the instance of his Majesty's advocate against them thereanent, as they,
who were lawfully cited for that effect, thrice called, and not compearing.

          (Signed)           GILB.

    Indicted and accused as in the former Sederunt.

    The persons who past upon the assize of the said panels, returned
    their verdict, in presence of the saids Lords, whereof the tenor
    follows:

    AT EDINBURGH, the twelfth day of June, one thousand seven hundred
    and fifty-four years. In witness whereof, their said chancellor and clerk, in their
names, have subscribed thir presents, place and date foresaid.

          (Signed)           ROB^T FORRESTER, Chanl^r.
                             WILLIAM SANDS, Clerk.

          (Signed)           CH. ARESKINE, I.P.D.