At length, through the various turnings and windings of a long and romantic path, Mowbray found
himself, without having received any satisfactory intelligence, by the side of the brook, called
St. Ronan's Burn, at the place where it was crossed by foot-passengers, by the Clattering Brig,
and by horsemen through a ford a little lower. At this point the fugitive might have either
continued her wanderings through her paternal woods, by a path which, after winding about a
mile, returned to Shaws-Castle, or she might have crossed the bridge, and entered a broken
horse-way, common to the public, leading to the Aultoun of St. Ronan's.

Mowbray, after a moment's consideration, concluded that the last was her most probable option.--He
mounted his horse, which the groom had brought down according to order, and commanding the
man to return by the footpath, which he himself could not examine, he proceeded to ride towards
the ford. The brook was swollen during the night, and the groom could not forbear intimating
to his master, that there was considerable danger in attempting to cross it. But Mowbray's
mind and feelings were too high-strung to permit him to listen to cautious counsel. He spurred
the snorting and reluctant horse into the torrent, though the water, rising high on the upper
side, broke both over the pommel and the croupe of his saddle. It was by exertion of great
strength and sagacity, that the good horse kept the ford-way. Had the stream forced him down
among the rocks, which lie below the crossing-place, the consequences must have been fatal.
Mowbray, however, reached the opposite side in safety, to the joy and admiration of the servant,
who stood staring at him during the adventure. He then rode hastily towards the Aultoun, determined,
if he could not hear tidings of his sister in that village, that he would spread the alarm,
and institute a general search after her, since her elopement from Shaws-Castle could, in that
case, no longer be concealed. We must leave him, however, in his present state of uncertainty,
in order to acquaint our readers with the reality of those evils, which his foreboding mind
and disturbed conscience could only anticipate.

FOOTNOTE:

[II-11] A fool is so termed in Turkey.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE CATASTROPHE.

    What sheeted ghost is wandering through the storm?
    For never did a maid of middle earth
    Choose such a time or spot to vent her sorrows.

Old Play.

Grief, shame, confusion, and terror, had contributed to overwhelm the unfortunate Clara Mowbray
at the moment when she parted with her brother, after the stormy and dangerous interview which
it was our task to record in a former chapter. For years, her life, her whole tenor of thought,
had been haunted by the terrible apprehension of a discovery, and now the thing which she feared
had come upon her. The extreme violence of her brother, which went so far as to menace her
personal safety, had united with the previous conflict of passions, to produce a rapture of
fear, which probably left her no other free agency, than that which she derived from the blind
instinct which urges flight, as the readiest resource in danger.

We have no means of exactly tracing the course of this unhappy young woman. It is probable
she fled from Shaws-Castle, on hearing the arrival of Mr. Touchwood's carriage, which she might
mistake for that of Lord Etherington; and thus, while Mowbray was looking forward to the happier
prospects which the traveller's narrative seemed to open, his sister was contending with rain
and darkness, amidst the difficulties and dangers of the mountain path which we have described.
These were so great, that a young woman more delicately brought up, must either have lain down
exhausted, or have been compelled to turn her steps back to the residence she had abandoned.
But the solitary wanderings of Clara had inured her to fatigue and to night-walks; and the
deeper causes of terror which urged her to flight, rendered her insensible to the perils of
her way. She had passed the bower, as was evident from her glove remaining there, and had crossed
the foot-bridge; although it was almost wonderful, that, in so dark a night, she should have
followed with such accuracy a track, where the missing a single turn by a cubit's length, might
have precipitated her into eternity.

It is probable, that Clara's spirits and strength began in some degree to fail her, after she
had proceeded a little way on the road to the Aultoun; for she had stopped at the solitary
cottage inhabited by the old female pauper, who had been for a time the hostess of the penitent
and dying Hannah Irwin. Here, as the inmate of the cottage acknowledged, she had made some
knocking, and she owned she had heard her moan bitterly, as she entreated for admission. The
old hag was one of those whose hearts adversity turns to very stone, and obstinately kept her
door shut, impelled more probably by general hatred to the human race, than by the superstitious
fears which seized her; although she perversely argued that she was startled at the supernatural
melody and sweetness of tone, with which the benighted wanderer made her supplication. She
admitted, that when she heard the poor petitioner turn from the door, her heart was softened,
and she did intend to open with the purpose of offering her at least a shelter; but that before
she could "hirple to the door, and get the bar taken down," the unfortunate supplicant was
not to be seen; which strengthened the old woman's opinion, that the whole was a delusion of Satan.

It is conjectured that the repulsed wanderer made no other attempt to awaken pity or obtain
shelter, until she came to Mr. Cargill's Manse, in the upper room of which a light was still
burning, owing to a cause which requires some explanation.

The reader is aware of the reasons which induced Bulmer, or the titular Lord Etherington, to
withdraw from the country the sole witness, as he conceived, who could, or at least who might
choose to bear witness to the fraud which he had practised on the unfortunate Clara Mowbray.
Of three persons present at the marriage, besides the parties, the clergyman was completely
deceived. Solmes he conceived to be at his own exclusive devotion; and therefore, if by his
means this Hannah Irwin could be removed from the scene, he argued plausibly, that all evidence
to the treachery which he had practised would be effectually stifled. Hence his agent, Solmes,
had received a commission, as the reader may remember, to effect her removal without loss of
time, and had reported to his master that his efforts had been effectual.

But Solmes, since he had fallen under the influence of Touchwood, was constantly employed in
counteracting the schemes which he seemed most active in forwarding, while the traveller enjoyed
(to him an exquisite gratification) the amusement of countermining as fast as Bulmer could
mine, and had in prospect the pleasing anticipation of blowing up the pioneer with his own
petard. For this purpose, as soon as Touchwood learned that his house was to be applied to
for the original deeds left in charge by the deceased Earl of Etherington, he expedited a letter,
directing that only the copies should be sent, and thus rendered nugatory Bulmer's desperate
design of possessing himself of that evidence. For the same reason, when Solmes announced to
him his master's anxious wish to have Hannah Irwin conveyed out of the country, he appointed
him to cause the sick woman to be carefully transported to the Manse, where Mr. Cargill was
easily induced to give her temporary refuge.

To this good man, who might be termed an Israelite without guile, the distress of the unhappy
woman would have proved a sufficient recommendation; nor was he likely to have enquired whether
her malady might not be infectious, or to have made any of those other previous investigations
which are sometimes clogs upon the bounty or hospitality of more prudent philanthropists. But
to interest him yet farther, Mr. Touchwood informed him by letter that the patient (not otherwise
unknown to him) was possessed of certain most material information affecting a family of honour
and consequence, and that he himself, with Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's in the quality of a magistrate,
intended to be at the Manse that evening, to take her declaration upon this important subject.
Such indeed was the traveller's purpose, which might have been carried into effect, but for
his own self-important love of manoeuvring on the one part, and the fiery impatience of Mowbray
on the other, which, as the reader knows, sent the one at full gallop to Shaws-Castle, and
obliged the other to follow him post haste. This necessity he intimated to the clergyman by
a note, which he dispatched express as he himself was in the act of stepping into the chaise.

He requested that the most particular attention should be paid to the invalid--promised to
be at the Manse with Mr. Mowbray early on the morrow--and, with the lingering and inveterate
self-conceit which always induced him to conduct every thing with his own hand, directed his
friend, Mr. Cargill, not to proceed to take the sick woman's declaration or confession until
he arrived, unless in case of extremity.

It had been an easy matter for Solmes to transfer the invalid from the wretched cottage to
the clergyman's Manse. The first appearance of the associate of much of her guilt had indeed
terrified her; but he scrupled not to assure her, that his penitence was equal to her own,
and that he was conveying her where their joint deposition would be formally received, in order
that they might, so far as possible, atone for the evil of which they had been jointly guilty.
He also promised her kind usage for herself, and support for her children; and she willingly
accompanied him to the clergyman's residence, he himself resolving to abide in concealment
the issue of the mystery, without again facing his master, whose star, as he well discerned,
was about to shoot speedily from its exalted sphere.

The clergyman visited the unfortunate patient, as he had done frequently during her residence
in his vicinity, and desired that she might be carefully attended. During the whole day, she
seemed better; but, whether the means of supporting her exhausted frame had been too liberally
administered, or whether the thoughts which gnawed her conscience had returned with double
severity when she was released from the pressure of immediate want, it is certain that, about
midnight, the fever began to gain ground, and the person placed in attendance on her came to
inform the clergyman, then deeply engaged with the siege of Ptolemais, that she doubted if
the woman would live till morning, and that she had something lay heavy at her heart, which
she wished, as the emissary expressed it, "to make, a clean breast of" before she died, or
lost possession of her senses.

Awakened by such a crisis, Mr. Cargill at once became a man of this world, clear in his apprehension,
and cool in his resolution, as he always was when the path of duty lay before him. Comprehending,
from the various hints of his friend Touchwood, that the matter was of the last consequence,
his own humanity, as well as inexperience, dictated his sending for skilful assistance. His
man-servant was accordingly dispatched on horseback to the Well for Dr. Quackleben; while,
upon the suggestion of one of his maids, "that Mrs. Dods was an uncommon skeely body about
a sick-bed," the wench was dismissed to supplicate the assistance of the gudewife of the Cleikum,
which she was not, indeed, wont to refuse whenever it could be useful. The male emissary proved,
in Scottish phrase, a "corbie messenger;"[II-G] for either he did not find the doctor, or he
found him better engaged than to attend the sick-bed of a pauper, at a request which promised
such slight remuneration as that of a parish minister. But the female ambassador was more successful;
for, though she found our friend Luckie Dods preparing for bed at an hour unusually late, in
consequence of some anxiety on account of Mr. Touchwood's unexpected absence, the good old
dame only growled a little about the minister's fancies in taking puir bodies into his own
house; and then, instantly donning cloak, hood, and pattens, marched down the gate with all
the speed of the good Samaritan, one maid bearing the lantern before her, while the other remained
to keep the house, and to attend to the wants of Mr. Tyrrel, who engaged willingly to sit up
to receive Mr. Touchwood.

But, ere Dame Dods had arrived at the Manse, the patient had summoned Mr. Cargill to her presence,
and required him to write her confession while she had life and breath to make it.

"For I believe," she added, raising herself in the bed, and rolling her eyes wildly around,
"that, were I to confess my guilt to one of a less sacred character, the Evil Spirit, whose
servant I have been, would carry away his prey, both body and soul, before they had severed
from each other, however short the space that they must remain in partnership!"

Mr. Cargill would have spoken some ghostly consolation, but she answered with pettish impatience,
"Waste not words--waste not words!--Let me speak that which I must tell, and sign it with my
hand; and do you, as the more immediate servant of God, and therefore bound to bear witness
to the truth, take heed you write that which I tell you, and nothing else. I desired to have
told this to St. Ronan's--I have even made some progress in telling it to others--but I am
glad I broke short off--for I know you, Josiah Cargill, though you have long forgotten me."

"It may be so," said Cargill. "I have indeed no recollection of you."

"You once knew Hannah Irwin, though," said the sick woman, "who was companion and relation
to Miss Clara Mowbray, and who was present with her on that sinful night, when she was wedded
in the kirk of St. Ronan's."

"Do you mean to say that you are that person?" said Cargill, holding the candle so as to throw
some light on the face of the sick woman. "I cannot believe it."

"No?" replied the penitent; "there is indeed a difference between wickedness in the act of
carrying through its successful machinations, and wickedness surrounded by all the horrors
of a death-bed!"

"Do not yet despair," said Cargill. "Grace is omnipotent--to doubt this is in itself a great
crime."

"Be it so!--I cannot help it--my heart is hardened, Mr. Cargill; and there is something here,"
she pressed her bosom, "which tells me, that, with prolonged life and renewed health, even
my present agonies would be forgotten, and I should become the same I have been before. I have
rejected the offer of grace, Mr. Cargill, and not through ignorance, for I have sinned with
my eyes open. Care not for me, then, who am a mere outcast." He again endeavoured to interrupt
her, but she continued, "Or if you really wish my welfare, let me relieve my bosom of that
which presses it, and it may be that I shall then be better able to listen to you. You say
you remember me not--but if I tell you how often you refused to perform in secret the office
which was required of you--how much you urged that it was against your canonical rules--if
I name the argument to which you yielded--and remind you of your purpose, to acknowledge your
transgression to your brethren in the church courts, to plead your excuse, and submit to their
censure, which you said could not be a light one--you will be then aware, that, in the voice
of the miserable pauper, you hear the words of the once artful, gay, and specious Hannah Irwin."

"I allow it--I allow it!" said Mr. Cargill; "I admit the tokens, and believe you to be indeed
her whose name you assume."

"Then one painful step is over," said she; "for I would ere now have lightened my conscience
by confession, saving for the cursed pride of spirit, which was ashamed of poverty, though
it had not shrunk from guilt.--Well--In these arguments, which were urged to you by a youth
best known to you by the name of Francis Tyrrel, though more properly entitled to that of Valentine
Bulmer, we practised on you a base and gross deception.--Did you not hear some one sigh?--I
hope there is no one in the room--I trust I shall die when my confession is signed and sealed,
without my name being dragged through the public--I hope ye bring not in your menials to gaze
on my abject misery--I cannot brook that."

She paused and listened; for the ear, usually deafened by pain, is sometimes, on the contrary,
rendered morbidly acute. Mr. Cargill assured her, there was no one present but himself. "But,
O, most unhappy woman!" he said, "what does your introduction prepare me to expect!"

"Your expectation, be it ever so ominous, shall be fully satisfied.--I was the guilty confidant
of the false Francis Tyrrel.--Clara loved the true one.--When the fatal ceremony passed, the
bride and the clergyman were deceived alike--and I was the wretch--the fiend--who, aiding another
yet blacker, if blacker could be--mainly helped to accomplish this cureless misery!"

"Wretch!" exclaimed the clergyman, "and had you not then done enough?--Why did you expose the
betrothed of one brother to become the wife of another?"

"I acted," said the sick woman, "only as Bulmer instructed me; but I had to do with a master
of the game. He contrived, by his agent Solmes, to match me with a husband imposed on me by
his devices as a man of fortune!--a wretch, who maltreated me--plundered me--sold me.--Oh!
if fiends laugh, as I have heard they can, what a jubilee of scorn will there be, when Bulmer
and I enter their place of torture!--Hark!--I am sure of it--some one draws breath, as if shuddering!"

"You will distract yourself if you give way to these fancies. Be calm--speak on--but, oh! at
last, and for once, speak the truth!"

"I will, for it will best gratify my hatred against him, who, having first robbed me of my
virtue, made me a sport and a plunder to the basest of the species. For that I wandered here
to unmask him. I had heard he again stirred his suit to Clara, and I came here to tell young
Mowbray the whole.--But do you wonder that I shrunk from doing so till this last decisive moment?--I
thought of my conduct to Clara, and how could I face her brother?--And yet I hated her not
after I learned her utter wretchedness--her deep misery, verging even upon madness--I hated
her not then. I was sorry that she was not to fall to the lot of a better man than Bulmer;--and
I pitied her after she was rescued by Tyrrel, and you may remember it was I who prevailed on
you to conceal her marriage."

"I remember it," answered Cargill, "and that you alleged, as a reason for secrecy, danger from
her family. I did conceal it, until reports that she was again to be married reached my ears."

"Well, then," said the sick woman, "Clara Mowbray ought to forgive me--since what ill I have
done her was inevitable, while the good I did was voluntary.--I must see her, Josiah Cargill--I
must see her before I die--I shall never pray till I see her--I shall never profit by word
of godliness till I see her! If I cannot obtain the pardon of a worm like myself, how can I
hope for that of"----

She started at these words with a faint scream; for slowly, and with a feeble hand, the curtains
of the bed opposite to the side at which Cargill sat, were opened, and the figure of Clara
Mowbray, her clothes and long hair drenched and dripping with rain, stood in the opening by
the bedside. The dying woman sat upright, her eyes starting from their sockets, her lips quivering,
her face pale, her emaciated hands grasping the bed-clothes, as if to support herself, and
looking as much aghast as if her confession had called up the apparition of her betrayed friend.

"Hannah Irwin," said Clara, with her usual sweetness of tone, "my early friend--my unprovoked
enemy!--Betake thee to Him who hath pardon for us all, and betake thee with confidence--for
I pardon you as freely as if you had never wronged me--as freely as I desire my own pardon.--Farewell--Farewell!"

She retired from the room, ere the clergyman could convince himself that it was more than a
phantom which he beheld. He ran down stairs--he summoned assistants, but no one could attend
his call; for the deep ruckling groans of the patient satisfied every one that she was breathing
her last; and Mrs. Dods, with the maid-servant, ran into the bedroom, to witness the death
of Hannah Irwin, which shortly after took place.

That event had scarcely occurred, when the maid-servant who had been left in the inn, came
down in great terror to acquaint her mistress, that a lady had entered the house like a ghost,
and was dying in Mr. Tyrrel's room. The truth of the story we must tell our own way.

In the irregular state of Miss Mowbray's mind, a less violent impulse than that which she had
received from her brother's arbitrary violence, added to the fatigues, dangers, and terrors
of her night-walk, might have exhausted the powers of her body, and alienated those of her
mind. We have before said, that the lights in the clergyman's house had probably attracted
her attention, and in the temporary confusion of a family, never remarkable for its regularity,
she easily mounted the stairs, and entered the sick chamber undiscovered, and thus overheard
Hannah Irwin's confession, a tale sufficient to have greatly aggravated her mental malady.

We have no means of knowing whether she actually sought Tyrrel, or whether it was, as in the
former case, the circumstance of a light still burning where all around was dark, that attracted
her; but her next apparition was close by the side of her unfortunate lover, then deeply engaged
in writing, when something suddenly gleamed on a large, old-fashioned mirror, which hung on
the wall opposite. He looked up, and saw the figure of Clara, holding a light (which she had
taken from the passage) in her extended hand. He stood for an instant with his eyes fixed on
this fearful shadow, ere he dared turn round on the substance which was thus reflected. When
he did so, the fixed and pallid countenance almost impressed him with the belief that he saw
a vision, and he shuddered when, stooping beside him, she took his hand. "Come away!" she said,
in a hurried voice--"Come away, my brother follows to kill us both. Come, Tyrrel, let us fly--we
shall easily escape him.--Hannah Irwin is on before--but, if we are overtaken, I will have
no more fighting--you must promise me that we shall not--we have had but too much of that--but
you will be wise in future."

"Clara Mowbray!" exclaimed Tyrrel. "Alas! is it thus?--Stay--do not go," for she turned to
make her escape--"stay--stay--sit down."

"I must go," she replied, "I must go--I am called--Hannah Irwin is gone before to tell all,
and I must follow. Will you not let me go?--Nay, if you will hold me by force, I know I must
sit down--but you will not be able to keep me for all that."

A convulsion fit followed, and seemed, by its violence, to explain that she was indeed bound
for the last and darksome journey. The maid, who at length answered Tyrrel's earnest and repeated
summons, fled terrified at the scene she witnessed, and carried to the Manse the alarm which
we before mentioned.

The old landlady was compelled to exchange one scene of sorrow for another, wondering within
herself what fatality could have marked this single night with so much misery. When she arrived
at home, what was her astonishment to find there the daughter of the house, which, even in
their alienation, she had never ceased to love, in a state little short of distraction, and
tended by Tyrrel, whose state of mind seemed scarce more composed than that of the unhappy
patient. The oddities of Mrs. Dods were merely the rust which had accumulated upon her character,
but without impairing its native strength and energy; and her sympathies were not of a kind
acute enough to disable her from thinking and acting as decisively as circumstances required.

"Mr. Tyrrel," she said, "this is nae sight for men folk--ye maun rise and gang to another room."

"I will not stir from her," said Tyrrel--"I will not remove from her either now, or as long
as she or I may live."

"That will be nae lang space, Maister Tyrrel, if ye winna be ruled by common sense."

Tyrrel started up, as if half comprehending what she said, but remained motionless.

"Come, come," said the compassionate landlady; "do not stand looking on a sight sair enough
to break a harder heart than yours, hinny--your ain sense tells ye, ye canna stay here--Miss
Clara shall be weel cared for, and I'll bring word to your room-door frae half-hour to half-hour
how she is."

The necessity of the case was undeniable, and Tyrrel suffered himself to be led to another
apartment, leaving Miss Mowbray to the care of the hostess and her female assistants. He counted
the hours in an agony, less by the watch than by the visits which Mrs. Dods, faithful to her
promise, made from interval to interval, to tell him that Clara was not better--that she was
worse--and, at last, that she did not think she could live over morning. It required all the
deprecatory influence of the good landlady to restrain Tyrrel, who, calm and cold on common
occasions, was proportionally fierce and impetuous when his passions were afloat, from bursting
into the room, and ascertaining, with his own eyes, the state of the beloved patient. At length
there was a long interval--an interval of hours--so long, indeed, that Tyrrel caught from it
the flattering hope that Clara slept, and that sleep might bring refreshment both to mind and
body. Mrs. Dods, he concluded, was prevented from moving, for fear of disturbing her patient's
slumber; and, as if actuated by the same feeling which he imputed to her, he ceased to traverse
his apartment, as his agitation had hitherto dictated, and throwing himself into a chair, forbore
to move even a finger, and withheld his respiration as much as possible, just as if he had
been seated by the pillow of the patient. Morning was far advanced, when his landlady appeared
in his room with a grave and anxious countenance.

"Mr. Tyrrel," she said, "ye are a Christian man."

"Hush, hush, for Heaven's sake!" he replied; "you will disturb Miss Mowbray."

"Naething will disturb her, puir thing," answered Mrs. Dods; "they have muckle to answer for
that brought her to this!"

"They have--they have indeed," said Tyrrel, striking his forehead; "and I will see her avenged
on every one of them!--Can I see her?"

"Better not--better not," said the good woman; but he burst from her, and rushed into the apartment.

"Is life gone?--Is every spark extinct?" he exclaimed eagerly to a country surgeon, a sensible
man, who had been summoned from Marchthorn in the course of the night. The medical man shook
his head--Tyrrel rushed to the bedside, and was convinced by his own eyes that the being whose
sorrows he had both caused and shared, was now insensible to all earthly calamity. He raised
almost a shriek of despair, as he threw himself on the pale hand of the corpse, wet it with
tears, devoured it with kisses, and played for a short time the part of a distracted person.
At length, on the repeated expostulation of all present, he suffered himself to be again conducted
to another apartment, the surgeon following, anxious to give such sad consolation as the case
admitted of.

"As you are so deeply concerned for the untimely fate of this young lady," he said, "it may
be some satisfaction to you, though a melancholy one, to know, that it has been occasioned
by a pressure on the brain, probably accompanied by a suffusion; and I feel authorized in stating,
from the symptoms, that if life had been spared, reason would, in all probability, never have
returned. In such a case, sir, the most affectionate relation must own, that death, in comparison
to life, is a mercy."

"Mercy?" answered Tyrrel; "but why, then, is it denied to me?--I know--I know!--My life is
spared till I revenge her."

He started from his seat, and hurried eagerly down stairs. But, as he was about to rush from
the door of the inn, he was stopped by Touchwood, who had just alighted from a carriage, with
an air of stern anxiety imprinted on his features, very different from their usual expression.
"Whither would ye? Whither would ye?" he said, laying hold of Tyrrel, and stopping him by force.

"For revenge--for revenge!" said Tyrrel. "Give way, I charge you, on your peril!"

"Vengeance belongs to God," replied the old man, "and his bolt has fallen.--This way--this
way," he continued, dragging Tyrrel into the house. "Know," he said, so soon as he had led
or forced him into a chamber, "that Mowbray of St. Ronan's has met Bulmer within this half
hour, and has killed him on the spot."

"Killed?--whom?" answered the bewildered Tyrrel.

"Valentine Bulmer, the titular Earl of Etherington."

"You bring tidings of death to the house of death," answered Tyrrel; "and there is nothing
in this world left that I should live for!"

CHAPTER XX.

CONCLUSION.

    Here come we to our close--for that which follows
    Is but the tale of dull, unvaried misery.
    Steep crags and headlong linns may court the pencil,
    Like sudden haps, dark plots, and strange adventures;
    But who would paint the dull and fog-wrapt moor,
    In its long track of sterile desolation?

Old Play.

When Mowbray crossed the brook, as we have already detailed, his mind was in that wayward and
uncertain state, which seeks something whereon to vent the self-engendered rage with which
it labours, like a volcano before eruption. On a sudden, a shot or two, followed by loud voices
and laughter reminded him he had promised, at that hour, and in that sequestered place, to
decide a bet respecting pistol-shooting, to which the titular Lord Etherington, Jekyl, and
Captain MacTurk, to whom such a pastime was peculiarly congenial, were parties as well as himself.
The prospect this recollection afforded him, of vengeance on the man whom he regarded as the
author of his sister's wrongs, was, in the present state of his mind, too tempting to be relinquished;
and, setting spurs to his horse, he rushed through the copse to the little glade, where he
found the other parties, who, despairing of his arrival, had already begun their amusement.
A jubilee shout was set up as he approached.

"Here comes Mowbray, dripping, by Cot, like a watering-pan," said Captain MacTurk.

"I fear him not," said Etherington, (we may as well still call him so,) "he has ridden too
fast to have steady nerves."

"We shall soon see that, my Lord Etherington, or rather Mr. Valentine Bulmer," said Mowbray,
springing from his horse, and throwing the bridle over the bough of a tree.

"What does this mean, Mr. Mowbray?" said Etherington, drawing himself up, while Jekyl and Captain
MacTurk looked at each other in surprise.

