The Cardinal next examined the list of persons I intended to have with me, and approved it.
To my extreme surprise he said, however, that I must add forty officers of cavalry and infantry,
from the regiments of my sons.  I cried out against the madness and the expense of such a numerous
military accompaniment.  I represented that it was not usual for ambassadors, with a peaceful
mission, to take with them such an imposing force by way of escort; I showed that these officers,
being necessarily gay men, might be led away into indiscreet gallantries, which would give
me more trouble than all the business of my embassy.  Nothing could be more evident, true,
and reasonable than my representations, nothing more useless or worse received.

The Cardinal had resolved to ruin me, and to leave me in Spain with all the embarrassment,
business, and annoyances he could.  He rightly thought that nothing was more likely to make
him succeed than to charge me with forty officers.  Not finding them, I took only twenty-nine,
and if the Cardinal succeeded as far as concerned my purse, I was so fortunate, and these gentlemen
were so discreet, that he succeeded in no other way.

Let me add here, before I give the details of my journey to Spain, in what manner the announcement
of these two marriages was received by the King and the public.

His Majesty was by no means gratified when he heard that a wife had been provided for him.
At the first mention of marriage he burst out crying. The Regent, M. le Duc, and M. de Frejus,
had all the trouble in the world to extract a "yes" from him, and to induce him to attend the
Regency Council, in which it was necessary that he should announce his consent to the proposed
union, or be present while it was announced for him.  The council was held, and the King came
to it, his eyes swollen and red, and his look very serious.

Some moments of silence passed, during which M. le Duc d'Orleans threw his eyes over all the
company (who appeared deeply expectant), and then fixed them on the King, and asked if he might
announce to the council the marriage of his Majesty.  The King replied by a dry "yes," and
in a rather low tone, but which was heard by the four or five people on each side of him, and
the Regent immediately announced the marriage.  Then, after taking the opinions of the council,
which were for the most part favorable, he turned towards the King with a smiling air, as though
inviting him to assume the same, and said, "There, then, Sire, your marriage is approved and
passed, and a grand and fortunate matter finished."  The council then broke up.

The news of what had taken place immediately ran over all Paris.  The Tuileries and the Palais
Royal were soon filled with people who came to present themselves before the King to compliment
him and the Regent on the conclusion of this grand marriage, and the crowd continued the following
days.  The King had much difficulty in assuming some little gaiety the first day, but on the
morrow he was less sombre, and by degrees he quite recovered himself.

M. le Duc d'Orleans took care not to announce the marriage of his daughter with the Prince
of the Asturias at the same time that the other marriage was announced.  He declared it, however,
the next day, and the news was received with the utmost internal vexation by the cabal opposed
to him.  Men, women, people of all conditions who belonged to that cabal, lost all countenance.
It was a pleasure to me, I admit, to look upon them.  They were utterly disconcerted.  Nevertheless,
after the first few days of overthrow, they regained courage, and set to work in order to break
off both the marriages.

CHAPTER CVII

I have already said that Dubois looked most unfavourably upon my embassy to Spain, and that
I saw he was determined to do all in his power to throw obstacles in its way.  I had fresh
proofs of this.  First, before my departure: when he gave me my written instructions, he told
me that in Spain I must take precedence of everybody during the signing of the King's contract
of marriage, and at the chapel, at the two ceremonies of the marriage of the Prince of the
Asturias, allowing no one to be before me!

I represented to him that the Pope's nuncio would be present, and that to him the ambassadors
of France gave place everywhere, and even the ambassadors of the Emperor also, who, without
opposition, preceded those of the King.  He replied that that was true, except in special cases
like the present, and that his instructions must be obeyed:  My surprise was great at so strange
an order.  I tried to move him by appealing to his pride; asking him how I should manage with
a cardinal, if one happened to be present, and with the majordomo-major, who corresponds, but
in a very superior degree, with our grand master of France.  He flew in a rage, and declared
that I must precede the majordomo-major also; that there would be no difficulty in doing so;
and that, as to the cardinals, I should find none.  I shrugged my shoulders, and begged him
to think of the matter.  Instead of replying, to me, he said he had forgotten to acquaint me
with a most essential particular: it was, that I must take care not to visit anybody until
I had been first visited.

I replied that the visiting question had not been forgotten in my instructions, and that those
instructions were to the effect that I should act in this respect as the Duc de Saint-Aignan
had acted, and that the usage he had followed was to pay the first visit to the Minister of
Foreign Affairs, and to the Councillors of State (when there were any), who are the same as
are known here under the name of ministers. Thereupon he broke out afresh, prated, talked about
the dignity of the King, and did not allow me the opportunity of saying another word.  I abridged
my visit, therefore, and went away.

However strange might appear to me these verbal orders of such a new kind, I thought it best
to speak to the Duc de Saint-Aignan and Amelot on the subject, so as to convince myself of
their novelty.  Both these ambassadors, as well as those who had preceded them, had visited
in an exactly opposite manner; and they thought it extravagant that I should precede the nuncio,
no matter where.  Amelot told me, moreover, that I should suffer all sorts of annoyances, and
succeed in nothing, if I refused the first visit to the Minister of Foreign Affairs; that as
for the Councillors of State, they existed only in name, the office having fallen into desuetude;
and that I must pay other visits to certain officers he named (three in number), who would
be justly offended and piqued if I refused them what every one who had preceded me had rendered
them.  He added that I had better take good care to do so, unless I wished to remain alone
in my house, and have the cold shoulder turned upon me by every principal person of the Court.

By this explanation of Amelot I easily comprehended the reason of these singular verbal orders.
The Cardinal wished to secure my failure in Spain, and my disgrace in France: in Spain by making
me offend at the outset all the greatest people and the minister through whose hands all my
business would pass; draw upon myself thus complaints here, which, as I had no written orders
to justify my conduct, he (Dubois) would completely admit the justice of, and then disavow
me, declaring he had given me exactly opposite orders.  If I did not execute what he had told
me, I felt that he would accuse me of sacrificing the King's honour and the dignity of the
Crown, in order to please in Spain, and obtain thus honours for myself and my sons, and that
he would prohibit the latter to. accept them.  There would have been less uproar respecting
the nuncio; but if I preceded him, Dubois felt persuaded that the Court of Rome would demand
justice; and this justice in his hands would have been a shameful recall.

My position appeared so difficult, that I resolved to leave nothing undone in order to change
it.  I thought M. le Duc d'Orleans would not resist the evidence I should bring forward, in
order to show the extraordinary nature of Dubois' verbal instructions: I deceived myself. It
was in vain that I spoke to M. le Duc d'Orleans.  I found nothing but feebleness under the
yoke of a master; by which I judged how much I could hope for during my absence.  Several times
I argued with him and the Cardinal; but in vain.  They both declared that if preceding ambassadors
had paid the first visits, that was no example for me, in an embassy so solemn and distinguished
as that I was about to execute.  I represented that, however solemn and however distinguished
might be my embassy, it gave me no rank superior to that of extraordinary ambassadors, and
that I could claim none.  Useless!  useless!  To my arguments there was no reply, but obstinacy
prevailed; and I clearly saw the extreme malignity of the valet, and the unspeakable weakness
of the master.  It was for me to manage as I could.

The Cardinal now began ardently to press my departure; and, in fact, there was no more time
to lose.  He unceasingly hurried on the workmen who were making all that I required,--vexed,
perhaps, that being in such prodigious number, he could not augment them.  There was nothing
more for him to do but to give me the letters with which I was to be charged.  He delayed writing
them until the last moment previous to my departure, that is to say; the very evening before
I started; the reason will soon be seen.  The letters were for their Catholic Majesties, for
the Queen Dowager at Bayonne, and for the Prince of the Asturias; letters from the King and
from the Duc d'Orleans.  But before giving them to me, the Regent said he would write two letters
to the Prince of the Asturias, both alike, except in this respect, that in the one he would
address the Prince as "nephew," and in the other as "brother and nephew," and that I was to
try and deliver the latter, which he passionately wished; but that if I found too much difficulty
in doing so, I must not persevere but deliver the former instead.

I had reason to believe that here was another plot of Dubois, to cause me trouble by embroiling
me with M. le Duc d'Orleans.  The Regent was the last man in the world to care for these formalities.
The Prince of the Asturias was son of the King and heir to the Crown, and, in consequence,
of the rank of a son of France.  In whatever way regarded, M. le Duc d'Orleans was extremely
inferior in rank to him; and it was something new and adventurous to treat him on terms of
equality.  This, however, is what I was charged with, and I believe, in the firm hope of Cardinal
Dubois that I should fail, and that he might profit by my failure.

Finally, on the morning of the day before my departure, all the papers with which I was to
be charged were brought to me.  I will not give the list of them.  But among these letters
there was none from the King to the Infanta!  I thought they had forgotten to put it with the
others. I said so to the persons who brought them to me.  What was my surprise when they told
me that the letter was not written, but that I would have it in the course of the day.

This appeared so strange to me, that my mind was filled with suspicion. I spoke of the letter
to the Cardinal and to M. le Duc d'Orleans, who assured me that I should have it in the evening.
At midnight it had not arrived.  I wrote to the Cardinal.  Finally I set out without it.  He
wrote to me, saying I should receive it before arriving at Bayonne; but nothing less.  I wrote
him anew.  He replied to me, saying that I should have it before I arrived at Madrid.  A letter
from the King to the Infanta was not difficult to write; I could not doubt, therefore, that
there was some design in this delay.  Whatever it might be, I could not understand it, unless
the intention was to send the letter afterwards, and make me pass for a heedless fellow who
had lost the first.

Dubois served me another most impudent turn, seven or eight days before my departure.  He sent
word to me, by his two devoted slaves, Le Blanc and Belleisle, that as he had the foreign affairs
under his charge, he must have the post, which he would not and could not any longer do without;
that he knew I was the intimate friend of Torcy (who had the post in his department), whose
resignation he desired; that he begged me to write to Torcy, and send my letter to him by an
express courier to Sable (where he had gone on an excursion); that he should see by my conduct
on this occasion, and its success, in what manner he could count upon me, and that he should
act towards me accordingly.  To this his two slaves added all they could to persuade me to
comply, assuring me that Dubois would break off my embassy if I did not do as he wished.  I
did not for a moment doubt, after what I had seen of the inconceivable feebleness of M. le
Duc d'Orleans, that Dubois was really capable of thus affronting and thwarting me, or that
I should have no aid from the Regent.  At the same time I resolved to run all hazards rather
than lend myself to an act of violence against a friend, so sure; so sage, and so virtuous,
and who had served the state with such reputation, and deserved so well of it.

I replied therefore to these gentlemen that I thought the commission very strange, and much
more so their reasoning of it; that Torcy was not a man from whom an office of this importance
could be taken unless he wished to give it up; that all I could do was to ask him if he wished
to resign, and if so, on what conditions; that as to exhorting him to resign, I could do nothing
of the kind, although I was not ignorant of what this refusal might cost me and my embassy.
They tried in vain to reason with me; all they could obtain was this firm resolution.

Castries and his brother, the Archbishop, were intimate friends of Torcy and of myself.  I
sent for them to come to me in the midst of the tumult of my departure.  They immediately came,
and I related to them what had just happened.  They were more indignant at the manner and the
moment, than at the thing itself; for Torcy knew that sooner or later the Cardinal would strip
him of the post for his own benefit.  They extremely praised my reply, exhorted me to send
word to Torcy, who was on the point of departing from Sable, or had departed, and who would
make his own terms with M. le Duc d'Orleans much more advantageously, present, than absent.
I read to them the letter I had written to Torcy, while waiting for them, which they much approved,
and which I at once despatched.

Torcy of himself, had hastened his return.  My courier found him with his wife in the Parc
of Versailles, having passed by the Chartres route.  He read my letter, charged the courier
with many compliments for me (his wife did likewise), and told me to say he would see me the
next day.  I informed M. Castries of his arrival.  We all four met the next day. Torcy warmly
appreciated my conduct, and, to his death, we lived on terms of the greatest intimacy, as may
be imagined when I say that he committed to me his memoirs (these he did not write until long
after the death of M. le Duc d'Orleans), with which I have connected mine.  He did not seem
to care for the post, if assured of an honourable pension.

I announced then his return to Dubois, saying it would be for him and M. le Duc d'Orleans to
make their own terms with him, and get out of the. matter in this way.  Dubois, content at
seeing by this that Torcy consented to resign the post, cared not how, so that the latter made
his own arrangements, and all passed off with the best grace on both sides. Torcy had some
money and 60,000 livres pension during life, and 20,000 for his wife after him.  This was arranged
before my departure and was very well carried out afterwards.

A little while after the declaration of the marriage, the Duchesse de Ventadour and Madame
de Soubise, her granddaughter, had been named, the one governess of the Infanta, the other
successor to the office; and they were both to go and meet her at the frontier, and bring her
to Paris to the Louvre, where she was to be lodged a little while after the declaration of
my embassy: the Prince de Rohan, her son-in-law, had orders to go and make the exchange of
the Princesses upon the frontier, with the people sent by the King of Spain to perform the
same function. I had never had any intimacy with them, though we were not on bad terms. But
these Spanish commissions caused us to visit each other with proper politeness.  I forgot to
say so earlier and in the proper place.

At last, viz., on the 23rd of October, 1721, I set out, having with me the Comte de Lorge,
my children, the Abbe de Saint-Simon, and his brother, and many others.  The rest of the company
joined me at Blaye. We slept at Orleans, at Montrichard; and at Poictiers.  On arriving at
Conte my berline broke down.  This caused a delay of three hours, and I did not arrive at Ruffec
until nearly midnight.  Many noblemen of the neighbourhood were waiting for me there, and I
entertained them at dinner and supper during the two days I stayed.  I experienced real pleasure
in embracing Puy-Robert, who was lieutenant-colonel of the Royal Roussillon Regiment when I
was captain.

From Ruffec I went in two days to La Cassine, a small house at four leagues from Blaye, which
my father had built on the borders of his marshes of Blaye, and which I felt much pleasure
in visiting; I stopped there during All Saints' Day and the evening before, and the next day
I early betook myself to Blaye again, where I sojourned two days.  I found several persons
of quality there, many of the nobility of the country and of the adjoining provinces, and Boucher,
Intendant of Bordeaux, brother- in-law of Le Blanc, who was waiting for me, and whom I entertained
with good cheer morning and evening during this short stay.

We crossed to Bordeaux in the midst of such bad weather that everybody pressed me to delay
the trip; but I had so few, days at my command that I did not accede to their representations.
Boucher had brought his brigantine magnificently equipped, and boats enough to carry over all
my company, most of whom went with us.  The view of the port and the town of Bordeaux surprised
me, with more than three hundred ships of all nations ranged in two lines upon my passage,
decked out in all their finery, and with a great noise from their cannons and those of the
Chateau Trompette.

Bordeaux is too well known to need description at my hands: I will simply say that after Constantinople
it presents the finest view of any other port.  Upon landing we received many compliments,
and found many carriages, which conducted us to the Intendant's house, where the Jurats came
to compliment me in state dress.  I invited them to supper with. me, a politeness they did
not expect, and which they appeared to highly appreciate.  I insisted upon going to see the
Hotel de Ville, which is amazingly ugly, saying to the Jurats that it was not to satisfy my
curiosity, but in order to pay a visit to them, that I went.  This extremely pleased.

After thanking M. and Madame Boucher for their attention, we set out again, traversed the great
Landes, and reached in due time Bayonne.  The day after my arrival there, I had an audience
with the Queen Dowager of Spain.  I was astonished upon arriving at her house.  It had only
two windows in front, looked upon a little court, and had but trifling depth. The room I entered
was very plainly furnished.  I found the Queen, who was waiting for me, accompanied by the
Duchesse de Linorez and very few other persons.  I complimented her in the name of the King,
and presented to her his letter.  Nothing could be more polite than her bearing towards me.

Passing the Pyrenees, I quitted with France, rain and bad weather, and found a clear sky, a
charming temperature, with views and perspectives which changed at each moment, and which were
not less charming.  We were all mounted upon mules, the pace of which is good but easy.  I
turned a little out of my way to visit Loyola, famous by the birth of Saint Ignatius, and situated
all alone in a narrow valley.  We found there four or five Jesuits, very polite and instructed,
who took care of the prodigious building erected there for more than a hundred Jesuits and
numberless scholars.  A church was there nearly finished, of rotunda shape, of a grandeur and
size which surprised me.  Gold, painting, sculpture, the richest ornaments of all kinds, are
distributed everywhere with prodigality but taste.  The architecture is correct and admirable,
the marble is most exquisite; jasper, porphyry, lapis, polished, wreathed, and fluted columns,
with their capitals and their ornaments of gilded bronze, a row of balconies between each altar
with little steps of marble to ascend them, and the cage encrusted; the altars and that which
accompanied them admirable.  In a word, the church was one of the most superb edifices in Europe,
the best kept up, and the most magnificently adorned.  We took there the best chocolate I ever
tasted, and, after some hours of curiosity and admiration, we regained our road.

On the 15th, we arrived at Vittoria, where I found a deputation of the province, whom I invited
to supper, and the next day to breakfast.  They spoke French and I was surprised to see Spaniards
so gay and such good company at table.  Joy on account of my journey burst out in every place
through which I passed in France and Spain, and obtained for me a good reception.  At Salinas,
among other towns which I passed through without stopping, ladies, who, to judge by their houses
and by themselves, appeared to me to be quality folks, asked me with such good grace to let
them see the man who was bringing happiness to Spain, that I thought it would only be proper
gallantry to enter their dwellings.  They appeared ravished, and I had all the trouble in the
world to get rid of them, and to continue my road.

I arrived on the 18th at Burgos, where I meant to stay at least one day, to see what turn would
take a rather strong fever which had seized my eldest son; but I was so pressed to hasten on
that I was obliged to leave my son behind with nearly all his attendants.

I left Burgos therefore on the 19th.  We found but few relays, and those ill-established. 
We travelled night and day without going to bed, until we reached Madrid, using such vehicles
as we could obtain.  I performed the last twelve leagues on a posthorse, which cost twice as
much as in France.  In this manner we arrived in Madrid on Friday, the 21st, at eleven o'clock
at night.

We found at the entrance of the town (which has neither gates nor walls, neither barriers nor
faubourgs,) people on guard, who asked us who we were, and whence we came.  They had been placed
there expressly so as to know the moment of my arrival.  As I was much fatigued by travelling
incessantly from Burgos without stopping, I replied that we were the people of the Ambassador
of France, who would arrive the next day.

I learnt afterwards, that the minister had calculated that I could not reach Madrid before the 22d.

CHAPTER CVIII

