'I called the rest of the watch, and they come and stood there, and I told them what Dick said.
It floated right along abreast, now, and didn't gain any more.  It was about twenty foot off.
Some was for having it aboard, but the rest didn't want to. Dick Allbright said rafts that
had fooled with it had got bad luck by it.  The captain of the watch said he didn't believe
in it. He said he reckoned the bar'l gained on us because it was in a little better current
than what we was.  He said it would leave by and by.

'So then we went to talking about other things, and we had a song, and then a breakdown; and
after that the captain of the watch called for another song; but it was clouding up, now, and
the bar'l stuck right thar in the same place, and the song didn't seem to have much warm-up
to it, somehow, and so they didn't finish it, and there warn't any cheers, but it sort of dropped
flat, and nobody said anything for a minute. Then everybody tried to talk at once, and one
chap got off a joke, but it warn't no use, they didn't laugh, and even the chap that made the
joke didn't laugh at it, which ain't usual. We all just settled down glum, and watched the
bar'l, and was oneasy and oncomfortable.  Well, sir, it shut down black and still, and then
the wind begin to moan around, and next the lightning begin to play and the thunder to grumble.
And pretty soon there was a regular storm, and in the middle of it a man that was running aft
stumbled and fell and sprained his ankle so that he had to lay up. This made the boys shake
their heads.  And every time the lightning come, there was that bar'l with the blue lights
winking around it. We was always on the look-out for it.  But by and by, towards dawn, she
was gone.  When the day come we couldn't see her anywhere, and we warn't sorry, neither.

'But next night about half-past nine, when there was songs and high jinks going on, here she
comes again, and took her old roost on the stabboard side.  There warn't no more high jinks.
Everybody got solemn; nobody talked; you couldn't get anybody to do anything but set around
moody and look at the bar'l. It begun to cloud up again. When the watch changed, the off watch
stayed up, 'stead of turning in. The storm ripped and roared around all night, and in the middle
of it another man tripped and sprained his ankle, and had to knock off. The bar'l left towards
day, and nobody see it go.

'Everybody was sober and down in the mouth all day.  I don't mean the kind of sober that comes
of leaving liquor alone--not that. They was quiet, but they all drunk more than usual--not
together--but each man sidled off and took it private, by himself.

'After dark the off watch didn't turn in; nobody sung, nobody talked; the boys didn't scatter
around, neither; they sort of huddled together, forrard; and for two hours they set there,
perfectly still, looking steady in the one direction, and heaving a sigh once in a while. 
And then, here comes the bar'l again. She took up her old place.  She staid there all night;
nobody turned in.  The storm come on again, after midnight. It got awful dark; the rain poured
down; hail, too; the thunder boomed and roared and bellowed; the wind blowed a hurricane; and
the lightning spread over everything in big sheets of glare, and showed the whole raft as plain
as day; and the river lashed up white as milk as far as you could see for miles, and there
was that bar'l jiggering along, same as ever. The captain ordered the watch to man the after
sweeps for a crossing, and nobody would go--no more sprained ankles for them, they said. They
wouldn't even walk aft.  Well then, just then the sky split wide open, with a crash, and the
lightning killed two men of the after watch, and crippled two more.  Crippled them how, says
you? Why, sprained their ankles!

'The bar'l left in the dark betwixt lightnings, towards dawn. Well, not a body eat a bite at
breakfast that morning. After that the men loafed around, in twos and threes, and talked low
together.  But none of them herded with Dick Allbright. They all give him the cold shake. 
If he come around where any of the men was, they split up and sidled away. They wouldn't man
the sweeps with him.  The captain had all the skiffs hauled up on the raft, alongside of his
wigwam, and wouldn't let the dead men be took ashore to be planted; he didn't believe a man
that got ashore would come back; and he was right.

'After night come, you could see pretty plain that there was going to be trouble if that bar'l
come again; there was such a muttering going on. A good many wanted to kill Dick Allbright,
because he'd seen the bar'l on other trips, and that had an ugly look.  Some wanted to put
him ashore. Some said, let's all go ashore in a pile, if the bar'l comes again.

'This kind of whispers was still going on, the men being bunched together forrard watching
for the bar'l, when, lo and behold you, here she comes again.  Down she comes, slow and steady,
and settles into her old tracks.  You could a heard a pin drop. Then up comes the captain,
and says:--

'"Boys, don't be a pack of children and fools; I don't want this bar'l to be dogging us all
the way to Orleans, and YOU don't; well, then, how's the best way to stop it? Burn it up,--that's
the way.  I'm going to fetch it aboard," he says. And before anybody could say a word, in he went.

'He swum to it, and as he come pushing it to the raft, the men spread to one side.  But the
old man got it aboard and busted in the head, and there was a baby in it!  Yes, sir, a stark
naked baby. It was Dick Allbright's baby; he owned up and said so.

'"Yes," he says, a-leaning over it, "yes, it is my own lamented darling, my poor lost Charles
William Allbright deceased," says he,--for he could curl his tongue around the bulliest words
in the language when he was a mind to, and lay them before you without a jint started, anywheres.
Yes, he said he used to live up at the head of this bend, and one night he choked his child,
which was crying, not intending to kill it,--which was prob'ly a lie,--and then he was scared,
and buried it in a bar'l, before his wife got home, and off he went, and struck the northern
trail and went to rafting; and this was the third year that the bar'l had chased him. He said
the bad luck always begun light, and lasted till four men was killed, and then the bar'l didn't
come any more after that. He said if the men would stand it one more night,--and was a-going
on like that,--but the men had got enough. They started to get out a boat to take him ashore
and lynch him, but he grabbed the little child all of a sudden and jumped overboard with it
hugged up to his breast and shedding tears, and we never see him again in this life, poor old
suffering soul, nor Charles William neither.'

'WHO was shedding tears?' says Bob; 'was it Allbright or the baby?'

'Why, Allbright, of course; didn't I tell you the baby was dead. Been dead three years--how
could it cry?'

'Well, never mind how it could cry--how could it KEEP all that time?' says Davy.  'You answer
me that.'

'I don't know how it done it,' says Ed.  'It done it though--that's all I know about it.'

'Say--what did they do with the bar'l?' says the Child of Calamity.

'Why, they hove it overboard, and it sunk like a chunk of lead.'

'Edward, did the child look like it was choked?' says one.

'Did it have its hair parted?' says another.

'What was the brand on that bar'l, Eddy?' says a fellow they called Bill.

'Have you got the papers for them statistics, Edmund?' says Jimmy.

'Say, Edwin, was you one of the men that was killed by the lightning.' says Davy.

'Him?  O, no, he was both of 'em,' says Bob.  Then they all haw-hawed.

'Say, Edward, don't you reckon you'd better take a pill? You look bad-- don't you feel pale?'
says the Child of Calamity.

'O, come, now, Eddy,' says Jimmy, 'show up; you must a kept part of that bar'l to prove the
thing by.  Show us the bunghole--do--and we'll all believe you.'

'Say, boys,' says Bill, 'less divide it up.  Thar's thirteen of us. I can swaller a thirteenth
of the yarn, if you can worry down the rest.'

Ed got up mad and said they could all go to some place which he ripped out pretty savage, and
then walked off aft cussing to himself, and they yelling and jeering at him, and roaring and
laughing so you could hear them a mile.

'Boys, we'll split a watermelon on that,' says the Child of Calamity; and he come rummaging
around in the dark amongst the shingle bundles where I was, and put his hand on me.  I was
warm and soft and naked; so he says 'Ouch!' and jumped back.

'Fetch a lantern or a chunk of fire here, boys--there's a snake here as big as a cow!'

So they run there with a lantern and crowded up and looked in on me.

'Come out of that, you beggar!' says one.

'Who are you?' says another.

'What are you after here?  Speak up prompt, or overboard you go.

'Snake him out, boys.  Snatch him out by the heels.'

I began to beg, and crept out amongst them trembling. They looked me over, wondering, and the
Child of Calamity says--

'A cussed thief!  Lend a hand and less heave him overboard!'

'No,' says Big Bob, 'less get out the paint-pot and paint him a sky blue all over from head
to heel, and then heave him over!'

'Good, that 's it.  Go for the paint, Jimmy.'

When the paint come, and Bob took the brush and was just going to begin, the others laughing
and rubbing their hands, I begun to cry, and that sort of worked on Davy, and he says--

''Vast there!  He 's nothing but a cub.  'I'll paint the man that tetches him!'

So I looked around on them, and some of them grumbled and growled, and Bob put down the paint,
and the others didn't take it up.

'Come here to the fire, and less see what you're up to here,' says Davy. 'Now set down there
and give an account of yourself. How long have you been aboard here?'

'Not over a quarter of a minute, sir,' says I.

'How did you get dry so quick?'

'I don't know, sir.  I'm always that way, mostly.'

'Oh, you are, are you.  What's your name?'

I warn't going to tell my name.  I didn't know what to say, so I just says--

'Charles William Allbright, sir.'

Then they roared--the whole crowd; and I was mighty glad I said that, because maybe laughing
would get them in a better humor.

When they got done laughing, Davy says--

'It won't hardly do, Charles William.  You couldn't have growed this much in five year, and
you was a baby when you come out of the bar'l, you know, and dead at that.  Come, now, tell
a straight story, and nobody'll hurt you, if you ain't up to anything wrong. What IS your name?'

'Aleck Hopkins, sir.  Aleck James Hopkins.'

'Well, Aleck, where did you come from, here?'

'From a trading scow.  She lays up the bend yonder. I was born on her. Pap has traded up and
down here all his life; and he told me to swim off here, because when you went by he said he
would like to get some of you to speak to a Mr. Jonas Turner, in Cairo, and tell him--'

'Oh, come!'

'Yes, sir; it's as true as the world; Pap he says--'

'Oh, your grandmother!'

They all laughed, and I tried again to talk, but they broke in on me and stopped me.

'Now, looky-here,' says Davy; 'you're scared, and so you talk wild. Honest, now, do you live
in a scow, or is it a lie?'

'Yes, sir, in a trading scow.  She lays up at the head of the bend. But I warn't born in her.
It's our first trip.'

'Now you're talking!  What did you come aboard here, for?  To steal?'

'No, sir, I didn't.--It was only to get a ride on the raft. All boys does that.'

'Well, I know that.  But what did you hide for?'

'Sometimes they drive the boys off.'

'So they do.  They might steal.  Looky-here; if we let you off this time, will you keep out
of these kind of scrapes hereafter?'

''Deed I will, boss.  You try me.'

'All right, then.  You ain't but little ways from shore. Overboard with you, and don't you
make a fool of yourself another time this way.--Blast it, boy, some raftsmen would rawhide
you till you were black and blue!'

I didn't wait to kiss good-bye, but went overboard and broke for shore. When Jim come along
by and by, the big raft was away out of sight around the point.  I swum out and got aboard,
and was mighty glad to see home again.

The boy did not get the information he was after, but his adventure has furnished the glimpse
of the departed raftsman and keelboatman which I desire to offer in this place.

I now come to a phase of the Mississippi River life of the flush times of steamboating, which
seems to me to warrant full examination--the marvelous science of piloting, as displayed there.
I believe there has been nothing like it elsewhere in the world.

Chapter 4 The Boys' Ambition

WHEN I was a boy, there was but one permanent ambition among my comrades in our village{footnote
[1. Hannibal, Missouri]} on the west bank of the Mississippi River.  That was, to be a steamboatman.
We had transient ambitions of other sorts, but they were only transient. When a circus came
and went, it left us all burning to become clowns; the first negro minstrel show that came
to our section left us all suffering to try that kind of life; now and then we had a hope that
if we lived and were good, God would permit us to be pirates. These ambitions faded out, each
in its turn; but the ambition to be a steamboatman always remained.

Once a day a cheap, gaudy packet arrived upward from St. Louis, and another downward from Keokuk.
Before these events, the day was glorious with expectancy; after them, the day was a dead and
empty thing.  Not only the boys, but the whole village, felt this. After all these years I
can picture that old time to myself now, just as it was then:  the white town drowsing in the
sunshine of a summer's morning; the streets empty, or pretty nearly so; one or two clerks sitting
in front of the Water Street stores, with their splint-bottomed chairs tilted back against
the wall, chins on breasts, hats slouched over their faces, asleep--with shingle-shavings enough
around to show what broke them down; a sow and a litter of pigs loafing along the sidewalk,
doing a good business in watermelon rinds and seeds; two or three lonely little freight piles
scattered about the 'levee;' a pile of 'skids' on the slope of the stone-paved wharf, and the
fragrant town drunkard asleep in the shadow of them; two or three wood flats at the head of
the wharf, but nobody to listen to the peaceful lapping of the wavelets against them; the great
Mississippi, the majestic, the magnificent Mississippi, rolling its mile-wide tide along, shining
in the sun; the dense forest away on the other side; the 'point' above the town, and the 'point'
below, bounding the river-glimpse and turning it into a sort of sea, and withal a very still
and brilliant and lonely one.  Presently a film of dark smoke appears above one of those remote
'points;' instantly a negro drayman, famous for his quick eye and prodigious voice, lifts up
the cry, 'S-t-e- a-m-boat a-comin'!' and the scene changes! The town drunkard stirs, the clerks
wake up, a furious clatter of drays follows, every house and store pours out a human contribution,
and all in a twinkling the dead town is alive and moving.  Drays, carts, men, boys, all go
hurrying from many quarters to a common center, the wharf. Assembled there, the people fasten
their eyes upon the coming boat as upon a wonder they are seeing for the first time. And the
boat IS rather a handsome sight, too.  She is long and sharp and trim and pretty; she has two
tall, fancy-topped chimneys, with a gilded device of some kind swung between them; a fanciful
pilot-house, a glass and 'gingerbread', perched on top of the 'texas' deck behind them; the
paddle-boxes are gorgeous with a picture or with gilded rays above the boat's name; the boiler
deck, the hurricane deck, and the texas deck are fenced and ornamented with clean white railings;
there is a flag gallantly flying from the jack-staff; the furnace doors are open and the fires
glaring bravely; the upper decks are black with passengers; the captain stands by the big bell,
calm, imposing, the envy of all; great volumes of the blackest smoke are rolling and tumbling
out of the chimneys--a husbanded grandeur created with a bit of pitch pine just before arriving
at a town; the crew are grouped on the forecastle; the broad stage is run far out over the
port bow, and an envied deckhand stands picturesquely on the end of it with a coil of rope
in his hand; the pent steam is screaming through the gauge- cocks, the captain lifts his hand,
a bell rings, the wheels stop; then they turn back, churning the water to foam, and the steamer
is at rest. Then such a scramble as there is to get aboard, and to get ashore, and to take
in freight and to discharge freight, all at one and the same time; and such a yelling and cursing
as the mates facilitate it all with! Ten minutes later the steamer is under way again, with
no flag on the jack-staff and no black smoke issuing from the chimneys. After ten more minutes
the town is dead again, and the town drunkard asleep by the skids once more.

My father was a justice of the peace, and I supposed he possessed the power of life and death
over all men and could hang anybody that offended him.  This was distinction enough for me
as a general thing; but the desire to be a steamboatman kept intruding, nevertheless. I first
wanted to be a cabin-boy, so that I could come out with a white apron on and shake a tablecloth
over the side, where all my old comrades could see me; later I thought I would rather be the
deckhand who stood on the end of the stage-plank with the coil of rope in his hand, because
he was particularly conspicuous.  But these were only day-dreams,--they were too heavenly to
be contemplated as real possibilities. By and by one of our boys went away.  He was not heard
of for a long time. At last he turned up as apprentice engineer or 'striker' on a steamboat.
This thing shook the bottom out of all my Sunday-school teachings. That boy had been notoriously
worldly, and I just the reverse; yet he was exalted to this eminence, and I left in obscurity
and misery. There was nothing generous about this fellow in his greatness. He would always
manage to have a rusty bolt to scrub while his boat tarried at our town, and he would sit on
the inside guard and scrub it, where we could all see him and envy him and loathe him. And
whenever his boat was laid up he would come home and swell around the town in his blackest
and greasiest clothes, so that nobody could help remembering that he was a steamboatman; and
he used all sorts of steamboat technicalities in his talk, as if he were so used to them that
he forgot common people could not understand them. He would speak of the 'labboard' side of
a horse in an easy, natural way that would make one wish he was dead.  And he was always talking
about 'St. Looy' like an old citizen; he would refer casually to occasions when he 'was coming
down Fourth Street,' or when he was 'passing by the Planter's House,' or when there was a fire
and he took a turn on the brakes of 'the old Big Missouri;' and then he would go on and lie
about how many towns the size of ours were burned down there that day. Two or three of the
boys had long been persons of consideration among us because they had been to St. Louis once
and had a vague general knowledge of its wonders, but the day of their glory was over now.
They lapsed into a humble silence, and learned to disappear when the ruthless 'cub'-engineer
approached.  This fellow had money, too, and hair oil. Also an ignorant silver watch and a
showy brass watch chain. He wore a leather belt and used no suspenders.  If ever a youth was
cordially admired and hated by his comrades, this one was. No girl could withstand his charms.
He 'cut out' every boy in the village. When his boat blew up at last, it diffused a tranquil
contentment among us such as we had not known for months.  But when he came home the next week,
alive, renowned, and appeared in church all battered up and bandaged, a shining hero, stared
at and wondered over by everybody, it seemed to us that the partiality of Providence for an
undeserving reptile had reached a point where it was open to criticism.

This creature's career could produce but one result, and it speedily followed.  Boy after boy
managed to get on the river. The minister's son became an engineer.  The doctor's and the post-master's
sons became 'mud clerks;' the wholesale liquor dealer's son became a barkeeper on a boat; four
sons of the chief merchant, and two sons of the county judge, became pilots. Pilot was the
grandest position of all.  The pilot, even in those days of trivial wages, had a princely salary--from
a hundred and fifty to two hundred and fifty dollars a month, and no board to pay. Two months
of his wages would pay a preacher's salary for a year. Now some of us were left disconsolate.
We could not get on the river--at least our parents would not let us.

So by and by I ran away.  I said I never would come home again till I was a pilot and could
come in glory.  But somehow I could not manage it. I went meekly aboard a few of the boats
that lay packed together like sardines at the long St. Louis wharf, and very humbly inquired
for the pilots, but got only a cold shoulder and short words from mates and clerks. I had to
make the best of this sort of treatment for the time being, but I had comforting daydreams
of a future when I should be a great and honored pilot, with plenty of money, and could kill
some of these mates and clerks and pay for them.

Chapter 5 I Want to be a Cub-pilot

MONTHS afterward the hope within me struggled to a reluctant death, and I found myself without
an ambition.  But I was ashamed to go home. I was in Cincinnati, and I set to work to map out
a new career. I had been reading about the recent exploration of the river Amazon by an expedition
sent out by our government.  It was said that the expedition, owing to difficulties, had not
thoroughly explored a part of the country lying about the head-waters, some four thousand miles
from the mouth of the river.  It was only about fifteen hundred miles from Cincinnati to New
Orleans, where I could doubtless get a ship. I had thirty dollars left; I would go and complete
the exploration of the Amazon.  This was all the thought I gave to the subject. I never was
great in matters of detail.  I packed my valise, and took passage on an ancient tub called
the 'Paul Jones,' for New Orleans. For the sum of sixteen dollars I had the scarred and tarnished
splendors of 'her' main saloon principally to myself, for she was not a creature to attract
the eye of wiser travelers.

