"Since it interests you, rabbits, wild-fowl, hares, poultry, lambs in their season, children
when I can get any; they're usually too well locked in at night, when I do most of my hunting.
It's quite two months since I tasted child-flesh."

Ignoring the chaffing nature of the last remark Van Cheele tried to draw the boy on the subject
of possible poaching operations.

"You're talking rather through your hat when you speak of feeding on hares."  (Considering
the nature of the boy's toilet the simile was hardly an apt one.)  "Our hillside hares aren't
easily caught."

"At night I hunt on four feet," was the somewhat cryptic response.

"I suppose you mean that you hunt with a dog?" hazarded Van Cheele.

The boy rolled slowly over on to his back, and laughed a weird low laugh, that was pleasantly
like a chuckle and disagreeably like a snarl.

"I don't fancy any dog would be very anxious for my company, especially at night."

Van Cheele began to feel that there was something positively uncanny about the strange-eyed,
strange-tongued youngster.

"I can't have you staying in these woods," he declared authoritatively.

"I fancy you'd rather have me here than in your house," said the boy.

The prospect of this wild, nude animal in Van Cheele's primly ordered house was certainly an
alarming one.

"If you don't go.  I shall have to make you," said Van Cheele.

The boy turned like a flash, plunged into the pool, and in a moment had flung his wet and glistening
body half-way up the bank where Van Cheele was standing.  In an otter the movement would not
have been remarkable; in a boy Van Cheele found it sufficiently startling. His foot slipped
as he made an involuntarily backward movement, and he found himself almost prostrate on the
slippery weed-grown bank, with those tigerish yellow eyes not very far from his own.  Almost
instinctively he half raised his hand to his throat.  They boy laughed again, a laugh in which
the snarl had nearly driven out the chuckle, and then, with another of his astonishing lightning
movements, plunged out of view into a yielding tangle of weed and fern.

"What an extraordinary wild animal!" said Van Cheele as he picked himself up.  And then he
recalled Cunningham's remark "There is a wild beast in your woods."

Walking slowly homeward, Van Cheele began to turn over in his mind various local occurrences
which might be traceable to the existence of this astonishing young savage.

Something had been thinning the game in the woods lately, poultry had been missing from the
farms, hares were growing unaccountably scarcer, and complaints had reached him of lambs being
carried off bodily from the hills.  Was it possible that this wild boy was really hunting the
countryside in company with some clever poacher dogs?  He had spoken of hunting "four-footed"
by night, but then, again, he had hinted strangely at no dog caring to come near him, "especially
at night."  It was certainly puzzling.  And then, as Van Cheele ran his mind over the various
depredations that had been committed during the last month or two, he came suddenly to a dead
stop, alike in his walk and his speculations.  The child missing from the mill two months ago--the
accepted theory was that it had tumbled into the mill-race and been swept away; but the mother
had always declared she had heard a shriek on the hill side of the house, in the opposite direction
from the water.  It was unthinkable, of course, but he wished that the boy had not made that
uncanny remark about child-flesh eaten two months ago.  Such dreadful things should not be
said even in fun.

Van Cheele, contrary to his usual wont, did not feel disposed to be communicative about his
discovery in the wood.  His position as a parish councillor and justice of the peace seemed
somehow compromised by the fact that he was harbouring a personality of such doubtful repute
on his property; there was even a possibility that a heavy bill of damages for raided lambs
and poultry might be laid at his door.  At dinner that night he was quite unusually silent.

"Where's your voice gone to?" said his aunt.  "One would think you had seen a wolf."

Van Cheele, who was not familiar with the old saying, thought the remark rather foolish; if
he HAD seen a wolf on his property his tongue would have been extraordinarily busy with the
subject.

At breakfast next morning Van Cheele was conscious that his feeling of uneasiness regarding
yesterday's episode had not wholly disappeared, and he resolved to go by train to the neighbouring
cathedral town, hunt up Cunningham, and learn from him what he had really seen that had prompted
the remark about a wild beast in the woods.  With this resolution taken, his usual cheerfulness
partially returned, and he hummed a bright little melody as he sauntered to the morning-room
for his customary cigarette.  As he entered the room the melody made way abruptly for a pious
invocation. Gracefully asprawl on the ottoman, in an attitude of almost exaggerated repose,
was the boy of the woods.  He was drier than when Van Cheele had last seen him, but no other
alteration was noticeable in his toilet.

"How dare you come here?" asked Van Cheele furiously.

"You told me I was not to stay in the woods," said the boy calmly.

"But not to come here.  Supposing my aunt should see you!"

And with a view to minimising that catastrophe, Van Cheele hastily obscured as much of his
unwelcome guest as possible under the folds of a Morning Post.  At that moment his aunt entered
the room.

"This is a poor boy who has lost his way--and lost his memory.  He doesn't know who he is or
where he comes from," explained Van Cheele desperately, glancing apprehensively at the waif's
face to see whether he was going to add inconvenient candour to his other savage propensities.

Miss Van Cheele was enormously interested.

"Perhaps his underlinen is marked," she suggested.

"He seems to have lost most of that, too," said Van Cheele, making frantic little grabs at
the Morning Post to keep it in its place.

A naked homeless child appealed to Miss Van Cheele as warmly as a stray kitten or derelict
puppy would have done.

"We must do all we can for him," she decided, and in a very short time a messenger, dispatched
to the rectory, where a page-boy was kept, had returned with a suit of pantry clothes, and
the necessary accessories of shirt, shoes, collar, etc.  Clothed, clean, and groomed, the boy
lost none of his uncanniness in Van Cheele's eyes, but his aunt found him sweet.

"We must call him something till we know who he really is," she said.  "Gabriel-Ernest, I think;
those are nice suitable names."

Van Cheele agreed, but he privately doubted whether they were being grafted on to a nice suitable
child.  His misgivings were not diminished by the fact that his staid and elderly spaniel had
bolted out of the house at the first incoming of the boy, and now obstinately remained shivering
and yapping at the farther end of the orchard, while the canary, usually as vocally industrious
as Van Cheele himself, had put itself on an allowance of frightened cheeps. More than ever
he was resolved to consult Cunningham without loss of time.

As he drove off to the station his aunt was arranging that Gabriel- Ernest should help her
to entertain the infant members of her Sunday-school class at tea that afternoon.

Cunningham was not at first disposed to be communicative.

"My mother died of some brain trouble," he explained, "so you will understand why I am averse
to dwelling on anything of an impossibly fantastic nature that I may see or think that I have
seen."

"But what DID you see?" persisted Van Cheele.

"What I thought I saw was something so extraordinary that no really sane man could dignify
it with the credit of having actually happened.  I was standing, the last evening I was with
you, half- hidden in the hedgegrowth by the orchard gate, watching the dying glow of the sunset.
Suddenly I became aware of a naked boy, a bather from some neighbouring pool, I took him to
be, who was standing out on the bare hillside also watching the sunset.  His pose was so suggestive
of some wild faun of Pagan myth that I instantly wanted to engage him as a model, and in another
moment I think I should have hailed him.  But just then the sun dipped out of view, and all
the orange and pink slid out of the landscape, leaving it cold and grey.  And at the same moment
an astounding thing happened--the boy vanished too!"

"What! vanished away into nothing?" asked Van Cheele excitedly.

"No; that is the dreadful part of it," answered the artist; "on the open hillside where the
boy had been standing a second ago, stood a large wolf, blackish in colour, with gleaming fangs
and cruel, yellow eyes.  You may think--"

But Van Cheele did not stop for anything as futile as thought. Already he was tearing at top
speed towards the station.  He dismissed the idea of a telegram.  "Gabriel-Ernest is a werewolf"
was a hopelessly inadequate effort at conveying the situation, and his aunt would think it
was a code message to which he had omitted to give her the key.  His one hope was that he might
reach home before sundown.  The cab which he chartered at the other end of the railway journey
bore him with what seemed exasperating slowness along the country roads, which were pink and
mauve with the flush of the sinking sun.  His aunt was putting away some unfinished jams and
cake when he arrived.

"Where is Gabriel-Ernest?" he almost screamed.

"He is taking the little Toop child home," said his aunt.  "It was getting so late, I thought
it wasn't safe to let it go back alone. What a lovely sunset, isn't it?"

But Van Cheele, although not oblivious of the glow in the western sky, did not stay to discuss
its beauties.  At a speed for which he was scarcely geared he raced along the narrow lane that
led to the home of the Toops.  On one side ran the swift current of the mill- stream, on the
other rose the stretch of bare hillside.  A dwindling rim of red sun showed still on the skyline,
and the next turning must bring him in view of the ill-assorted couple he was pursuing. Then
the colour went suddenly out of things, and a grey light settled itself with a quick shiver
over the landscape.  Van Cheele heard a shrill wail of fear, and stopped running.

Nothing was ever seen again of the Toop child or Gabriel-Ernest, but the latter's discarded
garments were found lying in the road so it was assumed that the child had fallen into the
water, and that the boy had stripped and jumped in, in a vain endeavour to save it.  Van Cheele
and some workmen who were near by at the time testified to having heard a child scream loudly
just near the spot where the clothes were found.  Mrs. Toop, who had eleven other children,
was decently resigned to her bereavement, but Miss Van Cheele sincerely mourned her lost foundling.
It was on her initiative that a memorial brass was put up in the parish church to "Gabriel-Ernest,
an unknown boy, who bravely sacrificed his life for another."

Van Cheele gave way to his aunt in most things, but he flatly refused to subscribe to the Gabriel-Ernest
memorial.

THE SAINT AND THE GOBLIN

The little stone Saint occupied a retired niche in a side aisle of the old cathedral.  No one
quite remembered who he had been, but that in a way was a guarantee of respectability.  At
least so the Goblin said.  The Goblin was a very fine specimen of quaint stone carving, and
lived up in the corbel on the wall opposite the niche of the little Saint.  He was connected
with some of the best cathedral folk, such as the queer carvings in the choir stalls and chancel
screen, and even the gargoyles high up on the roof.  All the fantastic beasts and manikins
that sprawled and twisted in wood or stone or lead overhead in the arches or away down in the
crypt were in some way akin to him; consequently he was a person of recognised importance in
the cathedral world.

The little stone Saint and the Goblin got on very well together, though they looked at most
things from different points of view. The Saint was a philanthropist in an old fashioned way;
he thought the world, as he saw it, was good, but might be improved.  In particular he pitied
the church mice, who were miserably poor.  The Goblin, on the other hand, was of opinion that
the world, as he knew it, was bad, but had better be let alone.  It was the function of the
church mice to be poor.

"All the same," said the Saint, "I feel very sorry for them."

"Of course you do," said the Goblin; "it's YOUR function to feel sorry for them.  If they were
to leave off being poor you couldn't fulfil your functions.  You'd be a sinecure."

He rather hoped that the Saint would ask him what a sinecure meant, but the latter took refuge
in a stony silence.  The Goblin might be right, but still, he thought, he would like to do
something for the church mice before winter came on; they were so very poor.

Whilst he was thinking the matter over he was startled by something falling between his feet
with a hard metallic clatter.  It was a bright new thaler; one of the cathedral jackdaws, who
collected such things, had flown in with it to a stone cornice just above his niche, and the
banging of the sacristy door had startled him into dropping it.  Since the invention of gunpowder
the family nerves were not what they had been.

"What have you got there?" asked the Goblin.

"A silver thaler," said the Saint.  "Really," he continued, "it is most fortunate; now I can
do something for the church mice."

"How will you manage it?" asked the Goblin.

The Saint considered.

"I will appear in a vision to the vergeress who sweeps the floors. I will tell her that she
will find a silver thaler between my feet, and that she must take it and buy a measure of corn
and put it on my shrine.  When she finds the money she will know that it was a true dream,
and she will take care to follow my directions.  Then the mice will have food all the winter."

"Of course YOU can do that," observed the Goblin.  "Now, I can only appear to people after
they have had a heavy supper of indigestible things.  My opportunities with the vergeress would
be limited. There is some advantage in being a saint after all."

All this while the coin was lying at the Saint's feet.  It was clean and glittering and had
the Elector's arms beautifully stamped upon it.  The Saint began to reflect that such an opportunity
was too rare to be hastily disposed of.  Perhaps indiscriminate charity might be harmful to
the church mice.  After all, it was their function to be poor; the Goblin had said so, and
the Goblin was generally right.

"I've been thinking," he said to that personage, "that perhaps it would be really better if
I ordered a thaler's worth of candles to be placed on my shrine instead of the corn."

He often wished, for the look of the thing, that people would sometimes burn candles at his
shrine; but as they had forgotten who he was it was not considered a profitable speculation
to pay him that attention.

"Candles would be more orthodox," said the Goblin.

"More orthodox, certainly," agreed the Saint, "and the mice could have the ends to eat; candle-ends
are most fattening."

The Goblin was too well bred to wink; besides, being a stone goblin, it was out of the question.

* * *

"Well, if it ain't there, sure enough!" said the vergeress next morning.  She took the shining
coin down from the dusty niche and turned it over and over in her grimy hands.  Then she put
it to her mouth and bit it.

"She can't be going to eat it," thought the Saint, and fixed her with his stoniest stare.

"Well," said the woman, in a somewhat shriller key, "who'd have thought it!  A saint, too!"

Then she did an unaccountable thing.  She hunted an old piece of tape out of her pocket, and
tied to crosswise, with a big loop, round the thaler, and hung it round the neck of the little
Saint.

Then she went away.

"The only possible explanation," said the Goblin, "is that it's a bad one."

* * *

"What is that decoration your neighbour is wearing?" asked a wyvern that was wrought into the
capital of an adjacent pillar.

The Saint was ready to cry with mortification, only, being of stone, he couldn't.

"It's a coin of--ahem!--fabulous value," replied the Goblin tactfully.

And the news went round the Cathedral that the shrine of the little stone Saint had been enriched
by a priceless offering.

"After all, it's something to have the conscience of a goblin," said the Saint to himself.

The church mice were as poor as ever.  But that was their function.

THE SOUL OF LAPLOSHKA

Laploshka was one of the meanest men I have ever met, and quite one of the most entertaining.
He said horrid things about other people in such a charming way that one forgave him for the
equally horrid things he said about oneself behind one's back.  Hating anything in the way
of ill-natured gossip ourselves, we are always grateful to those who do it for us and do it
well.  And Laploshka did it really well.

Naturally Laploshka had a large circle of acquaintances, and as he exercised some care in their
selection it followed that an appreciable proportion were men whose bank balances enabled them
to acquiesce indulgently in his rather one-sided views on hospitality. Thus, although possessed
of only moderate means, he was able to live comfortably within his income, and still more comfortably
within those of various tolerantly disposed associates.

But towards the poor or to those of the same limited resources as himself his attitude was
one of watchful anxiety; he seemed to be haunted by a besetting fear lest some fraction of
a shilling or franc, or whatever the prevailing coinage might be, should be diverted from his
pocket or service into that of a hard-up companion.  A two-franc cigar would be cheerfully
offered to a wealthy patron, on the principle of doing evil that good may come, but I have
known him indulge in agonies of perjury rather than admit the incriminating possession of a
copper coin when change was needed to tip a waiter.  The coin would have been duly returned
at the earliest opportunity--he would have taken means to insure against forgetfulness on the
part of the borrower--but accidents might happen, and even the temporary estrangement from
his penny or sou was a calamity to be avoided.

The knowledge of this amiable weakness offered a perpetual temptation to play upon Laploshka's
fears of involuntary generosity. To offer him a lift in a cab and pretend not to have enough
money to pay the fair, to fluster him with a request for a sixpence when his hand was full
of silver just received in change, these were a few of the petty torments that ingenuity prompted
as occasion afforded.  To do justice to Laploshka's resourcefulness it must be admitted that
he always emerged somehow or other from the most embarrassing dilemma without in any way compromising
his reputation for saying "No."  But the gods send opportunities at some time to most men,
and mine came one evening when Laploshka and I were supping together in a cheap boulevard restaurant.
(Except when he was the bidden guest of some one with an irreproachable income, Laploshka was
wont to curb his appetite for high living; on such fortunate occasions he let it go on an easy
snaffle.)  At the conclusion of the meal a somewhat urgent message called me away, and without
heeding my companion's agitated protest, I called back cruelly, "Pay my share; I'll settle
with you to-morrow."  Early on the morrow Laploshka hunted me down by instinct as I walked
along a side street that I hardly ever frequented.  He had the air of a man who had not slept.

"You owe me two francs from last night," was his breathless greeting.

I spoke evasively of the situation in Portugal, where more trouble seemed brewing.  But Laploshka
listened with the abstraction of the deaf adder, and quickly returned to the subject of the
two francs.

"I'm afraid I must owe it to you," I said lightly and brutally.  "I haven't a sou in the world,"
and I added mendaciously, "I'm going away for six months or perhaps longer."

Laploshka said nothing, but his eyes bulged a little and his cheeks took on the mottled hues
of an ethnographical map of the Balkan Peninsula.  That same day, at sundown, he died.  "Failure
of the heart's action," was the doctor's verdict; but I, who knew better, knew that he died
of grief.

There arose the problem of what to do with his two francs.  To have killed Laploshka was one
thing; to have kept his beloved money would have argued a callousness of feeling of which I
am not capable.  The ordinary solution, of giving it to the poor, would by no means fit the
present situation, for nothing would have distressed the dead man more than such a misuse of
his property.  On the other hand, the bestowal of two francs on the rich was an operation which
called for some tact.  An easy way out of the difficulty seemed, however, to present itself
the following Sunday, as I was wedged into the cosmopolitan crowd which filled the side-aisle
of one of the most popular Paris churches.  A collecting-bag, for "the poor of Monsieur le
Cure," was buffeting its tortuous way across the seemingly impenetrable human sea, and a German
in front of me, who evidently did not wish his appreciation of the magnificent music to be
marred by a suggestion of payment, made audible criticisms to his companion on the claims of
the said charity.

"They do not want money," he said; "they have too much money.  They have no poor.  They are
all pampered."

If that were really the case my way seemed clear.  I dropped Laploshka's two francs into the
bag with a murmured blessing on the rich of Monsieur le Cure.

Some three weeks later chance had taken me to Vienna, and I sat one evening regaling myself
in a humble but excellent little Gasthaus up in the Wahringer quarter.  The appointments were
primitive, but the Schnitzel, the beer, and the cheese could not have been improved on. Good
cheer brought good custom, and with the exception of one small table near the door every place
was occupied.  Half-way through my meal I happened to glance in the direction of that empty
seat, and saw that it was no longer empty.  Poring over the bill of fare with the absorbed
scrutiny of one who seeks the cheapest among the cheap was Laploshka.  Once he looked across
at me, with a comprehensive glance at my repast, as though to say, "It is my two francs you
are eating," and then looked swiftly away.  Evidently the poor of Monsieur le Cure had been
genuine poor.  The Schnitzel turned to leather in my mouth, the beer seemed tepid; I left the
Emmenthaler untasted.  My one idea was to get away from the room, away from the table where
THAT was seated; and as I fled I felt Laploshka's reproachful eyes watching the amount that
I gave to the piccolo--out of his two francs.  I lunched next day at an expensive restaurant
which I felt sure that the living Laploshka would never have entered on his own account, and
I hoped that the dead Laploshka would observe the same barriers.  I was not mistaken, but as
I came out I found him miserably studying the bill of fare stuck up on the portals.  Then he
slowly made his way over to a milk-hall.  For the first time in my experience I missed the
charm and gaiety of Vienna life.

After that, in Paris or London or wherever I happened to be, I continued to see a good deal
of Laploshka.  If I had a seat in a box at a theatre I was always conscious of his eyes furtively
watching me from the dim recesses of the gallery.  As I turned into my club on a rainy afternoon
I would see him taking inadequate shelter in a doorway opposite.  Even if I indulged in the
modest luxury of a penny chair in the Park he generally confronted me from one of the free
benches, never staring at me, but always elaborately conscious of my presence.  My friends
began to comment on my changed looks, and advised me to leave off heaps of things.  I should
have liked to have left off Laploshka.

On a certain Sunday--it was probably Easter, for the crush was worse than ever--I was again
wedged into the crowd listening to the music in the fashionable Paris church, and again the
collection-bag was buffeting its way across the human sea.  An English lady behind me was making
ineffectual efforts to convey a coin into the still distant bag, so I took the money at her
request and helped it forward to its destination.  It was a two-franc piece.  A swift inspiration
came to me, and I merely dropped my own sou into the bag and slid the silver coin into my pocket.
I had withdrawn Laploshka's two francs from the poor, who should never have had the legacy.
As I backed away from the crowd I heard a woman's voice say, "I don't believe he put my money
in the bag.  There are swarms of people in Paris like that!"  But my mind was lighter that
it had been for a long time.

The delicate mission of bestowing the retrieved sum on the deserving rich still confronted
me.  Again I trusted to the inspiration of accident, and again fortune favoured me.  A shower
drove me, two days later, into one of the historic churches on the left bank of the Seine,
and there I found, peering at the old wood-carvings, the Baron R., one of the wealthiest and
most shabbily dressed men in Paris.  It was now or never.  Putting a strong American inflection
into the French which I usually talked with an unmistakable British accent, I catechised the
Baron as to the date of the church's building, its dimensions, and other details which an American
tourist would be certain to want to know.  Having acquired such information as the Baron was
able to impart on short notice, I solemnly placed the two-franc piece in his hand, with the
hearty assurance that it was "pour vous," and turned to go.  The Baron was slightly taken aback,
but accepted the situation with a good grace. Walking over to a small box fixed in the wall,
he dropped Laploshka's two francs into the slot.  Over the box was the inscription, "Pour les
pauvres de M. le Cure."

That evening, at the crowded corner by the Cafe de la Paix, I caught a fleeting glimpse of
Laploshka.  He smiled, slightly raised his hat, and vanished.  I never saw him again.  After
all, the money had been GIVEN to the deserving rich, and the soul of Laploshka was at peace.

THE BAG

"The Major is coming in to tea," said Mrs. Hoopington to her niece. "He's just gone round to
the stables with his horse.  Be as bright and lively as you can; the poor man's got a fit of
the glooms."

Major Pallaby was a victim of circumstances, over which he had no control, and of his temper,
over which he had very little.  He had taken on the Mastership of the Pexdale Hounds in succession
to a highly popular man who had fallen foul of his committee, and the Major found himself confronted
with the overt hostility of at least half the hunt, while his lack of tact and amiability had
done much to alienate the remainder.  Hence subscriptions were beginning to fall off, foxes
grew provokingly scarcer, and wire obtruded itself with increasing frequency.  The Major could
plead reasonable excuse for his fit of the glooms.

In ranging herself as a partisan on the side of Major Pallaby Mrs. Hoopington had been largely
influenced by the fact that she had made up her mind to marry him at an early date.  Against
his notorious bad temper she set his three thousand a year, and his prospective succession
to a baronetcy gave a casting vote in his favour.  The Major's plans on the subject of matrimony
were not at present in such an advanced stage as Mrs. Hoopington's, but he was beginning to
find his way over to Hoopington Hall with a frequency that was already being commented on.

"He had a wretchedly thin field out again yesterday," said Mrs. Hoopington.  "Why you didn't
bring one or two hunting men down with you, instead of that stupid Russian boy, I can't think."

"Vladimir isn't stupid," protested her niece; "he's one of the most amusing boys I ever met.
Just compare him for a moment with some of your heavy hunting men--"

"Anyhow, my dear Norah, he can't ride."

"Russians never can; but he shoots."

"Yes; and what does he shoot?  Yesterday he brought home a woodpecker in his game-bag."

"But he'd shot three pheasants and some rabbits as well."

"That's no excuse for including a woodpecker in his game-bag."

"Foreigners go in for mixed bags more than we do.  A Grand Duke pots a vulture just as seriously
as we should stalk a bustard.  Anyhow, I've explained to Vladimir that certain birds are beneath
his dignity as a sportsman.  And as he's only nineteen, of course, his dignity is a sure thing
to appeal to."

Mrs. Hoopington sniffed.  Most people with whom Vladimir came in contact found his high spirits
infectious, but his present hostess was guaranteed immune against infection of that sort.

"I hear him coming in now," she observed.  "I shall go and get ready for tea.  We're going
to have it here in the hall.  Entertain the Major if he comes in before I'm down, and, above
all, be bright."

Norah was dependent on her aunt's good graces for many little things that made life worth living,
and she was conscious of a feeling of discomfiture because the Russian youth whom she had brought
down as a welcome element of change in the country-house routine was not making a good impression.
That young gentleman, however, was supremely unconscious of any shortcomings, and burst into
the hall, tired, and less sprucely groomed than usual, but distinctly radiant. His game-bag
looked comfortably full.

"Guess what I have shot," he demanded.

"Pheasants, woodpigeons, rabbits," hazarded Norah.

"No; a large beast; I don't know what you call it in English. Brown, with a darkish tail."
Norah changed colour.

"Does it live in a tree and eat nuts?" she asked, hoping that the use of the adjective "large"
might be an exaggeration.

Vladimir laughed.

"Oh no; not a biyelka."

"Does it swim and eat fish?" asked Norah, with a fervent prayer in her heart that it might
turn out to be an otter.

"No," said Vladimir, busy with the straps of his game-bag; "it lives in the woods, and eats
rabbits and chickens."

Norah sat down suddenly, and hid her face in her hands.

"Merciful Heaven!" she wailed; "he's shot a fox!"

Vladimir looked up at her in consternation.  In a torrent of agitated words she tried to explain
the horror of the situation. The boy understood nothing, but was thoroughly alarmed.

"Hide it, hide it!" said Norah frantically, pointing to the still unopened bag.  "My aunt and
the Major will be here in a moment. Throw it on the top of that chest; they won't see it there."

Vladimir swung the bag with fair aim; but the strap caught in its flight on the outstanding
point of an antler fixed in the wall, and the bag, with its terrible burden, remained suspended
just above the alcove where tea would presently be laid.  At that moment Mrs. Hoopington and
the Major entered the hall.

