It is by the goodness of God that in our country we have those three
unspeakably precious things: freedom of speech, freedom of conscience,
and the prudence never to practice either of them.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

From diary:

Mr. G.  called.  I had not seen him since Nauheim, Germany--several years ago; the time that
the cholera broke out at Hamburg.  We talked of the people we had known there, or had casually
met; and G. said:

"Do you remember my introducing you to an earl--the Earl of C.?"

"Yes.  That was the last time I saw you.  You and he were in a carriage, just starting--belated--for
the train.  I remember it."

"I remember it too, because of a thing which happened then which I was not looking for.  He
had told me a while before, about a remarkable and interesting Californian whom he had met
and who was a friend of yours, and said that if he should ever meet you he would ask you for
some particulars about that Californian.  The subject was not mentioned that day at Nauheim,
for we were hurrying away, and there was no time; but the thing that surprised me was this:
when I induced you, you said, 'I am glad to meet your lordship gain.'  The I again' was the
surprise.  He is a little hard of hearing, and didn't catch that word, and I thought you hadn't
intended that he should.  As we drove off I had only time to say, 'Why, what do you know about
him?' and I understood you to say, 'Oh, nothing, except that he is the quickest judge of----'
Then we were gone, and I didn't get the rest.  I wondered what it was that he was such a quick
judge of.  I have thought of it many times since, and still wondered what it could be.  He
and I talked it over, but could not guess it out.  He thought it must be fox-hounds or horses,
for he is a good judge of those--no one is a better.  But you couldn't know that, because you
didn't know him; you had mistaken him for some one else; it must be that, he said, because
he knew you had never met him before.  And of course you hadn't had you?"

"Yes, I had."

"Is that so?  Where?"

"At a fox-hunt, in England."

"How curious that is.  Why, he hadn't the least recollection of it.  Had you any conversation
with him?"

"Some--yes."

"Well, it left not the least impression upon him.  What did you talk about?"

"About the fox.  I think that was all."

"Why, that would interest him; that ought to have left an impression. What did he talk about?"

"The fox."

It's very curious.  I don't understand it.  Did what he said leave an impression upon you?"

"Yes.  It showed me that he was a quick judge of--however, I will tell you all about it, then
you will understand.  It was a quarter of a century ago 1873 or '74.  I had an American friend
in London named F., who was fond of hunting, and his friends the Blanks invited him and me
to come out to a hunt and be their guests at their country place.  In the morning the mounts
were provided, but when I saw the horses I changed my mind and asked permission to walk.  I
had never seen an English hunter before, and it seemed to me that I could hunt a fox safer
on the ground. I had always been diffident about horses, anyway, even those of the common altitudes,
and I did not feel competent to hunt on a horse that went on stilts.  So then Mrs. Blank came
to my help and said I could go with her in the dog-cart and we would drive to a place she knew
of, and there we should have a good glimpse of the hunt as it went by.

"When we got to that place I got out and went and leaned my elbows on a low stone wall which
enclosed a turfy and beautiful great field with heavy wood on all its sides except ours.  Mrs.
Blank sat in the dog-cart fifty yards away, which was as near as she could get with the vehicle.
I was full of interest, for I had never seen a fox-hunt.  I waited, dreaming and imagining,
in the deep stillness and impressive tranquility which reigned in that retired spot.  Presently,
from away off in the forest on the left, a mellow bugle-note came floating; then all of a sudden
a multitude of dogs burst out of that forest and went tearing by and disappeared in the forest
on the right; there was a pause, and then a cloud of horsemen in black caps and crimson coats
plunged out of the left-hand forest and went flaming across the field like a prairie-fire,
a stirring sight to see.  There was one man ahead of the rest, and he came spurring straight
at me.  He was fiercely excited.  It was fine to see him ride; he was a master horseman.  He
came like, a storm till he was within seven feet of me, where I was leaning on the wall, then
he stood his horse straight up in the air on his hind toe-nails, and shouted like a demon:

"'Which way'd the fox go?'

"I didn't much like the tone, but I did not let on; for he was excited, you know.  But I was
calm; so I said softly, and without acrimony:

"'Which fox?'

"It seemed to anger him.  I don't know why; and he thundered out:

"'WHICH fox?  Why, THE fox?  Which way did the FOX go?'

"I said, with great gentleness--even argumentatively:

"'If you could be a little more definite--a little less vague--because I am a stranger, and
there are many foxes, as you will know even better than I, and unless I know which one it is
that you desire to identify, and----'

"'You're certainly the damdest idiot that has escaped in a thousand years!' and he snatched
his great horse around as easily as I would snatch a cat, and was away like a hurricane.  A
very excitable man.

"I went back to Mrs. Blank, and she was excited, too--oh, all alive.  She said:

"'He spoke to you!--didn't he?'

"'Yes, it is what happened.'

"'I knew it! I couldn't hear what he said, but I knew be spoke to you! Do you know who it was?
It was Lord C., and he is Master of the Buckhounds! Tell me--what do you think of him?'

"'Him?  Well, for sizing-up a stranger, he's got the most sudden and accurate judgment of any
man I ever saw.'

"It pleased her.  I thought it would."

G. got away from Nauheim just in time to escape being shut in by the quarantine-bars on the
frontiers; and so did we, for we left the next day.  But G. had a great deal of trouble in
getting by the Italian custom-house, and we should have fared likewise but for the thoughtfulness
of our consul-general in Frankfort.  He introduced me to the Italian consul-general, and I
brought away from that consulate a letter which made our way smooth.  It was a dozen lines
merely commending me in a general way to the courtesies of servants in his Italian Majesty's
service, but it was more powerful than it looked.  In addition to a raft of ordinary baggage,
we had six or eight trunks which were filled exclusively with dutiable stuff--household goods
purchased in Frankfort for use in Florence, where we had taken a house.  I was going to ship
these through by express; but at the last moment an order went throughout Germany forbidding
the moving of any parcels by train unless the owner went with them.  This was a bad outlook.
We must take these things along, and the delay sure to be caused by the examination of them
in the custom-house might lose us our train.  I imagined all sorts of terrors, and enlarged
them steadily as we approached the Italian frontier.  We were six in number, clogged with all
that baggage, and I was courier for the party the most incapable one they ever employed.

We arrived, and pressed with the crowd into the immense custom-house, and the usual worries
began; everybody crowding to the counter and begging to have his baggage examined first, and
all hands clattering and chattering at once.  It seemed to me that I could do nothing; it would
be better to give it all up and go away and leave the baggage.  I couldn't speak the language;
I should never accomplish anything.  Just then a tall handsome man in a fine uniform was passing
by and I knew he must be the station-master--and that reminded me of my letter.  I ran to him
and put it into his hands.  He took it out of the envelope, and the moment his eye caught the
royal coat of arms printed at its top, he took off his cap and made a beautiful bow to me,
and said in English:

"Which is your baggage?  Please show it to me."

I showed him the mountain.  Nobody was disturbing it; nobody was interested in it; all the
family's attempts to get attention to it had failed--except in the case of one of the trunks
containing the dutiable goods.  It was just being opened.  My officer said:

"There, let that alone! Lock it.  Now chalk it.  Chalk all of the lot. Now please come and
show the hand-baggage."

He plowed through the waiting crowd, I following, to the counter, and he gave orders again,
in his emphatic military way:

"Chalk these.  Chalk all of them."

Then he took off his cap and made that beautiful bow again, and went his way.  By this time
these attentions had attracted the wonder of that acre of passengers, and the whisper had gone
around that the royal family were present getting their baggage chalked; and as we passed down
in review on our way to the door, I was conscious of a pervading atmosphere of envy which gave
me deep satisfaction.

But soon there was an accident.  My overcoat pockets were stuffed with German cigars and linen
packages of American smoking tobacco, and a porter was following us around with this overcoat
on his arm, and gradually getting it upside down.  Just as I, in the rear of my family, moved
by the sentinels at the door, about three hatfuls of the tobacco tumbled out on the floor.
One of the soldiers pounced upon it, gathered it up in his arms, pointed back whence I had
come, and marched me ahead of him past that long wall of passengers again--he chattering and
exulting like a devil, they smiling in peaceful joy, and I trying to look as if my pride was
not hurt, and as if I did not mind being brought to shame before these pleased people who had
so lately envied me.  But at heart I was cruelly humbled.

When I had been marched two-thirds of the long distance and the misery of it was at the worst,
the stately station-master stepped out from somewhere, and the soldier left me and darted after
him and overtook him; and I could see by the soldier's excited gestures that he was betraying
to him the whole shabby business.  The station-master was plainly very angry.  He came striding
down toward me, and when he was come near he began to pour out a stream of indignant Italian;
then suddenly took off his hat and made that beautiful bow and said:

"Oh, it is you! I beg a thousands pardons!  This idiot here---" He turned to the exulting soldier
and burst out with a flood of white-hot Italian lava, and the next moment he was bowing, and
the soldier and I were moving in procession again--he in the lead and ashamed, this time, I
with my chin up.  And so we marched by the crowd of fascinated passengers, and I went forth
to the train with the honors of war.  Tobacco and all.

CHAPTER XXI.

Man will do many things to get himself loved, he will do all things to
get himself envied.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

Before I saw Australia I had never heard of the "weet-weet" at all. I met but few men who had
seen it thrown--at least I met but few who mentioned having seen it thrown.  Roughly described,
it is a fat wooden cigar with its butt-end fastened to a flexible twig.  The whole thing is
only a couple of feet long, and weighs less than two ounces.  This feather--so to call it--is
not thrown through the air, but is flung with an underhanded throw and made to strike the ground
a little way in front of the thrower; then it glances and makes a long skip; glances again,
skips again, and again and again, like the flat stone which a boy sends skating over the water.
The water is smooth, and the stone has a good chance; so a strong man may make it travel fifty
or seventy-five yards; but the weet-weet has no such good chance, for it strikes sand, grass,
and earth in its course.  Yet an expert aboriginal has sent it a measured distance of two hundred
and twenty yards.  It would have gone even further but it encountered rank ferns and underwood
on its passage and they damaged its speed.  Two hundred and twenty yards; and so weightless
a toy--a mouse on the end of a bit of wire, in effect; and not sailing through the accommodating
air, but encountering grass and sand and stuff at every jump.  It looks wholly impossible;
but Mr. Brough Smyth saw the feat and did the measuring, and set down the facts in his book
about aboriginal life, which he wrote by command of the Victorian Government.

What is the secret of the feat?  No one explains.  It cannot be physical strength, for that
could not drive such a feather-weight any distance. It must be art.  But no one explains what
the art of it is; nor how it gets around that law of nature which says you shall not throw
any two-ounce thing 220 yards, either through the air or bumping along the ground.  Rev. J.
G. Woods says:

"The distance to which the weet-weet or kangaroo-rat can be thrown is truly astonishing.  I
have seen an Australian stand at one side of Kennington Oval and throw the kangaroo rat completely
across it." (Width of Kensington Oval not stated.)  "It darts through the air with the sharp
and menacing hiss of a rifle-ball, its greatest height from the ground being some seven or
eight feet .  .  .  .  .  .  When properly thrown it looks just like a living animal leaping
along .  .  .  .  .  .  Its movements have a wonderful resemblance to the long leaps of a kangaroo-rat
fleeing in alarm, with its long tail trailing behind it."

The Old Settler said that he had seen distances made by the weet-weet, in the early days, which
almost convinced him that it was as extraordinary an instrument as the boomerang.

There must have been a large distribution of acuteness among those naked skinny aboriginals,
or they couldn't have been such unapproachable trackers and boomerangers and weet-weeters.
It must have been race-aversion that put upon them a good deal of the low-rate intellectual
reputation which they bear and have borne this long time in the world's estimate of them.

They were lazy--always lazy.  Perhaps that was their trouble.  It is a killing defect.  Surely
they could have invented and built a competent house, but they didn't.  And they could have
invented and developed the agricultural arts, but they didn't.  They went naked and houseless,
and lived on fish and grubs and worms and wild fruits, and were just plain savages, for all
their smartness.

With a country as big as the United States to live and multiply in, and with no epidemic diseases
among them till the white man came with those and his other appliances of civilization, it
is quite probable that there was never a day in his history when he could muster 100,000 of
his race in all Australia.  He diligently and deliberately kept population down by infanticide--largely;
but mainly by certain other methods.  He did not need to practise these artificialities any
more after the white man came. The white man knew ways of keeping down population which were
worth several of his.  The white man knew ways of reducing a native population 80 percent.
in 20 years.  The native had never seen anything as fine as that before.

For example, there is the case of the country now called Victoria--a country eighty times as
large as Rhode Island, as I have already said. By the best official guess there were 4,500
aboriginals in it when the whites came along in the middle of the 'Thirties.  Of these, 1,000
lived in Gippsland, a patch of territory the size of fifteen or sixteen Rhode Islands: they
did not diminish as fast as some of the other communities; indeed, at the end of forty years
there were still 200 of them left.  The Geelong tribe diminished more satisfactorily: from
173 persons it faded to 34 in twenty years; at the end of another twenty the tribe numbered
one person altogether.  The two Melbourne tribes could muster almost 300 when the white man
came; they could muster but twenty, thirty-seven years later, in 1875.  In that year there
were still odds and ends of tribes scattered about the colony of Victoria, but I was told that
natives of full blood are very scarce now.  It is said that the aboriginals continue in some
force in the huge territory called Queensland.

The early whites were not used to savages.  They could not understand the primary law of savage
life: that if a man do you a wrong, his whole tribe is responsible--each individual of it--and
you may take your change out of any individual of it, without bothering to seek out the guilty
one. When a white killed an aboriginal, the tribe applied the ancient law, and killed the first
white they came across.  To the whites this was a monstrous thing.  Extermination seemed to
be the proper medicine for such creatures as this.  They did not kill all the blacks, but they
promptly killed enough of them to make their own persons safe.  From the dawn of civilization
down to this day the white man has always used that very precaution.  Mrs. Campbell Praed lived
in Queensland, as a child, in the early days, and in her "Sketches of Australian life," we
get informing pictures of the early struggles of the white and the black to reform each other.

Speaking of pioneer days in the mighty wilderness of Queensland, Mrs. Praed says:

     "At first the natives retreated before the whites; and, except that
     they every now and then speared a beast in one of the herds, gave
     little cause for uneasiness.  But, as the number of squatters
     increased, each one taking up miles of country and bringing two or
     three men in his train, so that shepherds' huts and stockmen's camps
     lay far apart, and defenseless in the midst of hostile tribes, the
     Blacks' depredations became more frequent and murder was no unusual
     event.

     "The loneliness of the Australian bush can hardly be painted in
     words.  Here extends mile after mile of primeval forest where
     perhaps foot of white man has never trod--interminable vistas where
     the eucalyptus trees rear their lofty trunks and spread forth their
     lanky limbs, from which the red gum oozes and hangs in fantastic
     pendants like crimson stalactites; ravines along the sides of which
     the long-bladed grass grows rankly; level untimbered plains
     alternating with undulating tracts of pasture, here and there broken
     by a stony ridge, steep gully, or dried-up creek.  All wild, vast
     and desolate; all the same monotonous gray coloring, except where
     the wattle, when in blossom, shows patches of feathery gold, or a
     belt of scrub lies green, glossy, and impenetrable as Indian jungle.

     "The solitude seems intensified by the strange sounds of reptiles,
     birds, and insects, and by the absence of larger creatures; of which
     in the day-time, the only audible signs are the stampede of a herd
     of kangaroo, or the rustle of a wallabi, or a dingo stirring the
     grass as it creeps to its lair.  But there are the whirring of
     locusts, the demoniac chuckle of the laughing jack-ass, the
     screeching of cockatoos and parrots, the hissing of the frilled
     lizard, and the buzzing of innumerable insects hidden under the
     dense undergrowth. And then at night, the melancholy wailing of the
     curlews, the dismal howling of dingoes, the discordant croaking of
     tree-frogs, might well shake the nerves of the solitary watcher."

That is the theater for the drama.  When you comprehend one or two other details, you will
perceive how well suited for trouble it was, and how loudly it invited it.  The cattlemen's
stations were scattered over that profound wilderness miles and miles apart--at each station
half a dozen persons.  There was a plenty of cattle, the black natives were always ill-nourished
and hungry.  The land belonged to them.  The whites had not bought it, and couldn't buy it;
for the tribes had no chiefs, nobody in authority, nobody competent to sell and convey; and
the tribes themselves had no comprehension of the idea of transferable ownership of land. 
The ousted owners were despised by the white interlopers, and this opinion was not hidden under
a bushel.  More promising materials for a tragedy could not have been collated.  Let Mrs. Praed
speak:

     "At Nie station, one dark night, the unsuspecting hut-keeper,
     having, as he believed, secured himself against assault, was lying
     wrapped in his blankets sleeping profoundly.  The Blacks crept
     stealthily down the chimney and battered in his skull while he
     slept."

One could guess the whole drama from that little text.  The curtain was up.  It would not fall
until the mastership of one party or the other was determined--and permanently:

     "There was treachery on both sides.  The Blacks killed the Whites
     when they found them defenseless, and the Whites slew the Blacks in
     a wholesale and promiscuous fashion which offended against my
     childish sense of justice.

     "They were regarded as little above the level of brutes, and in some
     cases were destroyed like vermin.

     "Here is an instance.  A squatter, whose station was surrounded by
     Blacks, whom he suspected to be hostile and from whom he feared an
     attack, parleyed with them from his house-door.  He told them it was
     Christmas-time--a time at which all men, black or white, feasted;
     that there were flour, sugar-plums, good things in plenty in the
     store, and that he would make for them such a pudding as they had
     never dreamed of--a great pudding of which all might eat and be
     filled.  The Blacks listened and were lost.  The pudding was made
     and distributed.  Next morning there was howling in the camp, for it
     had been sweetened with sugar and arsenic!"

The white man's spirit was right, but his method was wrong.  His spirit was the spirit which
the civilized white has always exhibited toward the savage, but the use of poison was a departure
from custom.  True, it was merely a technical departure, not a real one; still, it was a departure,
and therefore a mistake, in my opinion.  It was better, kinder, swifter, and much more humane
than a number of the methods which have been sanctified by custom, but that does not justify
its employment.  That is, it does not wholly justify it.  Its unusual nature makes it stand
out and attract an amount of attention which it is not entitled to.  It takes hold upon morbid
imaginations and they work it up into a sort of exhibition of cruelty, and this smirches the
good name of our civilization, whereas one of the old harsher methods would have had no such
effect because usage has made those methods familiar to us and innocent.  In many countries
we have chained the savage and starved him to death; and this we do not care for, because custom
has inured us to it; yet a quick death by poison is loving-kindness to it.  In many countries
we have burned the savage at the stake; and this we do not care for, because custom has inured
us to it; yet a quick death is loving-kindness to it. In the Matabeleland today--why, there
we are confining ourselves to sanctified custom, we Rhodes-Beit millionaires in South Africa
and Dukes in London; and nobody cares, because we are used to the old holy customs, and all
we ask is that no notice-inviting new ones shall be intruded upon the attention of our comfortable
consciences.  Mrs. Praed says of the poisoner, "That squatter deserves to have his name handed
down to the contempt of posterity."

I am sorry to hear her say that.  I myself blame him for one thing, and severely, but I stop
there.  I blame him for, the indiscretion of introducing a novelty which was calculated to
attract attention to our civilization.  There was no occasion to do that.  It was his duty,
and it is every loyal man's duty to protect that heritage in every way he can; and the best
way to do that is to attract attention elsewhere.  The squatter's judgment was bad--that is
plain; but his heart was right.  He is almost the only pioneering representative of civilization
in history who has risen above the prejudices of his caste and his heredity and tried to introduce
the element of mercy into the superior race's dealings with the savage.  His name is lost,
and it is a pity; for it deserves to be handed down to posterity with homage and reverence.

This paragraph is from a London journal:

     "To learn what France is doing to spread the blessings of
     civilization in her distant dependencies we may turn with advantage
     to New Caledonia.  With a view to attracting free settlers to that
     penal colony, M. Feillet, the Governor, forcibly expropriated the
     Kanaka cultivators from the best of their plantations, with a
     derisory compensation, in spite of the protests of the Council
     General of the island.  Such immigrants as could be induced to cross
     the seas thus found themselves in possession of thousands of coffee,
     cocoa, banana, and bread-fruit trees, the raising of which had cost
     the wretched natives years of toil whilst the latter had a few
     five-franc pieces to spend in the liquor stores of Noumea."

You observe the combination?  It is robbery, humiliation, and slow, slow murder, through poverty
and the white man's whisky.  The savage's gentle friend, the savage's noble friend, the only
magnanimous and unselfish friend the savage has ever had, was not there with the merciful swift
release of his poisoned pudding.

There are many humorous things in the world; among them the white man's notion that he is less
savage than the other savages.--[See Chapter on Tasmania, post.]

CHAPTER XXII.

Nothing is so ignorant as a man's left hand, except a lady's watch.

                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

