But she is not satisfied: she requires more. Woes may assail the whole creature: Christ offers
no alleviation. He leads her straight into the woes: will she follow, will she hold back? The
point to remember here is this, that whether we follow Christ or no we shall have woes: if
we forsake Him, we are not rid of woes; if we follow Him, we are not rid of woes--not yet,
but later we become eased, and even rid, by means of Consolations, for God is able by His Consolations
to entirely overbalance the woe and make it happy peace, though the cause of the woe remains.
Remember this in the days of visitation, and follow Christ, no matter where He leads. Christ
leads through the woe, because it is the shortest way. The unguided soul wanders beside the
woe, hating and fearing it, unable to rid herself of it, gaining nothing by it, suffering in
vain, and no Companion comes to ease the burden with His company.

The progress of our spiritual advance would feel to be that because we become more and more
aware of the failure of earthly consolations and amusements, and more and more aware of the
suffering, the sin, and the evil that there is about us, so more and more our desires go out
towards the good, and more and more we turn to Christ. Then Christ may deliberately make Himself
non-sufficient for the soul, and if He so does she must reach out after the Godhead; then by
means of more woes the soul and the creature clamour more and more after the Godhead and will
not be satisfied with less than the Godhead, and, continuing to clamour, are brought by Christ
to the new birth, the Baptism of the Holy Ghost.

Immediately the soul and creature become rid of Woe; and, living a life altogether apart from
the world, in a marvellous crystal joy they taste of the Godhead and of Eternal Pleasures.

This for a short time only: we have entered the Kingdom, but are still the smallest of spiritual
children: tenderly, wonderfully God cares for us, but we must grow, we must learn heavenly
manners. So Jesus Christ calls us again, and where does He lead us? Straight back into the
world, the daily life from which we thought we had escaped! Here truly is a Woe, a Woe worse
than any Woe we ever had before. Now we enter the Course of spiritual temptations, woes, and
endurances, and in the midst of the pots and pans of daily life Christ teaches us heavenly manners.

II

Since Contemplation is so necessary for Union with God and for the soul's enjoyment of God--is
it a capacity common to all persons? Yes, though, like all other capacities, in varying degrees;
but few will give themselves up to the difficulties of developing the capacity; and it is easy
to know why, for our "natural" state is that we work for that which brings the easiest, most
immediate, and most substantially visible reward.

Those who could most easily develop their powers of contemplation are those to whom Beauty
speaks, or those who are delicately sensitive to some ideal, nameless, elusive, that draws
and then retreats, but in retreating still draws. The poet, the artist, the dreamer that harnesses
his mind--all can contemplate.

The Thinker, thinking straight through, the proficient business man with his powers of concentration,
the first-rate organiser, the scientist, the inventor--all these men are contemplatives who
do not drive to God, but to the world or to ambition. Taking God as their goal, they could
ascend to great heights of happiness; though first they must give up ("sacrifice") all that
is unsavoury in thought and in living: yet such is the vast, the boundless Attraction of God
that having once (if only for a few moments) retouched this lost Attraction of His, we afterwards
are possessed with no other desire so powerful as the desire to retouch Him again, and "sacrifice"
becomes no sacrifice.

Truly, having once known God, we find life without Him to be meaningless and as unbeautiful
as a broken stem without its flower: pitiful, naked, and helpless as the body of a butterfly
without the wings.

III

At this time I read Bergson's Creative Evolution--a masterpiece of thinking by a man who, like
most others, is seeking for God. But I am unable to read the book through because of the pain
it causes. The pain is partly the same pain which I knew (and which I re-enter again in sympathy
with the writer) when I tried in my youth to climb to God by the intelligence and will of my
mind; but there is also a new pain, wide as an ocean, the pain of Compassion--for it is so
long this way to God that Bergson pursues, so long, so long; and the particular way of this
book is to me not like climbing, but descending: it resembles the frenzied action of a man
searching for lilies downwards, digging with painful persistence in the dark earth amongst
roots. How much more joyous to find the lily where she blooms, above in the light! There is
another way of the Intelligence: a way of climbing to icy heights, bare, unwarmed by any ray
of love, but less painful than this descent amongst dark roots. Cold, hard Intelligence, once
to slip upon thy frozen way is to be broken on thy pitiless bosom! O God, in thy tender pity
incline our hearts to seek Thee by the way of Love! For the road of Love comes easily to knowledge,
but the road of knowledge comes not easily to Love.

And we know that love is above learning and wisdom. Did not Solomon choose wisdom? and we think
him so wise to have made this choice, but he had been far wiser to have chosen holy love. For
wisdom lost herself and him in the arms of unworthy love: so we see the highest degree of the
Wisdom of Man held in bondage to, and undone by, even the lowest degree of love.

* * *

Dig deeply, and what do we find is at bottom our great, our persistent need? What is it that
instinctively we look for and desire? Happiness, and the Ever-new.

In and out of every day persistently, desperately, endlessly we seek. And because we seek amongst
the near-to-hand, the visible, the small, we seek in vain: we discover there is nothing in
this world which can wholly and permanently satisfy either of these desires.

God Himself is Happiness. God Himself is the Ever-new.

In Divine Love there is no monotony: the soul finds that each encounter with God is ever new,
the Ever-new tremulous with the beauty of rapture: new and wonderful as the first dawn.

IV

Not only is God a Mystery of Holiness, of Truth, of Love and Beauty: He is also Generosity,
a mystery of Eternal Giving, and His giving is and must for ever be, the supreme necessity
of the Universe: for without He gave how should we receive life, truth, beauty, love, or Himself?

And it cannot be too deeply impressed upon the soul that would come to His Presence that because
of His law of like to like she must conform to this law in order to come to His Presence. By
thinking it over we shall see that it is more difficult for us to be perfect holiness, perfect
truth, perfect love, perfect beauty, than it is for us to be perfectly generous: it is easier
for us to give God all that we have, to empty heart, mind and soul, and worldly goods at His
feet, than it is to reach to any other perfection; for generosity appears to be more universal,
more within our capacities, more "natural" to us than any other virtue--do we not see it continually
used, exercised, spent, thrown away on the merest trifles? Let us take, for instance, the tennis
player: to win the game he must give every ounce of himself to it--mind, eye, heart, and body,--sweating
there in the glare of the sun to win the game. Would he give himself so, would he sweat so,
in order to find God, or to please God? Oh no! Yet in the hour of death and afterwards, will
he be helped by this victory of flying balls? If by chance we could lift a corner of the veil,
we might catch a glimpse of the face of Folly, mockingly, cunningly peering at us, as all too
easily she persuades us to give of our royal coins of generosity to wantons, to phantom enterprises,
to balls filled with air, to dust and vanity.

Generosity is our easiest means of coming to God, because it is also the way of love: if the
tennis player did not love the game, he would not give himself so to it. But we cry, "I have
nothing whatever to give to God; it is to God I turn in order that He may give everything to
me." Quite so: there is too much of that. We have obedience to give: obedience is a great gift
to God, or, more truthfully speaking, in His magnanimity He accepts it as such; we have also
love to give, and again we may cry, "But my love is puny, shifting; it is nothing at all, a
mere trifle." That is true of "natural" love, of the love that we commence of our own human
nature to love Him with; but it is not true of the love which we receive of the Holy Ghost
when He baptizes us.

When we offer this Peculiar Love, offer it as only it can be offered--for love's sake,--immediately
we are in the Presence of God, secretly, marvellously united to Him; we are in the Consolations
of God, and we have no need to ask for anything whatever; indeed, we find ourselves unable
to ask, because we are filled to the brim, overflowing, inexpressibly satisfied, utterly blessed.

But supposing that we do not give to God, but, earnestly seeking Him, we merely ask some favour,
and sit and wait for Him to give? Then probably we shall not be sensible of receiving anything
from Him whatever; we shall feel at an immense distance from Him; then we shall become uneasy,
depressed, fancy ourselves neglected, imagine we have lost Him--and so we have till we gloriously
recover Him by means of giving.

And if at times in the stress of this giving, when He makes no response, we feel it is too
much, we can give no more, we are too discouraged to continue, let us remember the strain and
stress and endeavour that we and all our friends give to trifles, and quietly use our common
sense to judge whether in the winning of a game of ball, or in the pleasing and finding of
God, we shall be the more blessed. For God is to be found: He waits.

* * *

The truth about our endeavours is that we have one pre-eminent, pressing need above all other
needs, which is to Find God. When we have accomplished this we discover without any further
teaching that we no longer care to pass our time with air-balls, because they appear so paltry,
so inadequate. We are grown up and are no longer puerile in our desires: at the same time we
are not without desires, but, on the contrary, we glow with a new, more ardent, and larger
set of desires.

V

What I know of the soul's actual Finding and Contact with God I keep very closely to myself.
Here and there to a few, a very few souls, I may speak: to all others I am forbidden to speak.
I am stopped; and I understand perfectly why this is: it is that I should do more harm than
good. Anyone looking at me would say (and all the more so because I am dressed in the fashion
of the day, and not in some peculiar way, or in a nun's habit, for such trifling things affect
many minds), "That person is demented to think that she knows what it is to have Contact with
God," and it would seem a scandal to them. But the explanation of the mystery is not so simple
as this. I am not demented. I never was so sane, so capable in my life as now. I never was
so perfectly poised as now. But if you say to me, "Explain what it is that you know, in order
that I too may know," then I can say to you nothing more than, "Come and know for yourself,
for God awaits you."

To illustrate a mere fraction of the difficulty of passing such a knowledge from one self to
another self, let us take such a case as that of a man born blind. He sits beneath a tree,
on the grass. You put a blade of grass in his fingers, and also a leaf from the tree, and you
say to him, "This is grass, and this is the leaf of the tree which shelters you, and both are
green." "And what," he asks, "is green?" And to save your life you cannot make him know what
it is, or make him know the tree, or know the grass, though he touches them both with his hands.
How, then, shall God, Who can be neither seen, nor heard, nor touched, how shall He be made
known from one to another? He must be experienced to be known. And if you should say to me,
"What does it feel like to have found God?" then I should say, "It feels that the roof is lifted
off the world, and wherever we may be or stand it is a straight line from us to God and nothing
between, nothing between, day or night."

VI

To come to the contemplation of God it is not necessary to go through any lengthy toil, some
process of throwing out this or that, painfully, slowly, denying the existence of everything
in order to arrive at God. The way is not denying, but concentrating; and in the act of concentration,
because of love, all other things whatsoever in creation fall away into nothing and are no
more, because God in all His graciousness reveals Himself, and then He alone exists for the
enraptured soul.

VII

Supposing that we have found Jesus Christ, supposing that we know Him so well and have come
to love Him so much that our love for Him is become stronger than any other love, very much
stronger than any other love, and still, in spite of hopes and endeavours, we know that we
have not found the Godhead, we have not found Union with the First and Third Person of the
Holy Trinity--the heavens have not, as it were, been opened to us to let our souls slip through
to God. Are we to be discouraged because of this? Are we to think ourselves less favoured,
less loved? A thousand times no. We are, perhaps, in neither heart, mind, or soul quite sufficiently
prepared for the great ordeals that must be gone through after Union with God, To find God
is Victory. But Victory has dangers. We have perhaps not yet sufficiently developed just those
exact qualities which it is essential we must have in order to maintain the connection with
God in the face of all obstacles when once He is found. When God reveals Himself to a soul
she is in great danger, and she knows it, because to fail Him now, to turn away now, to be
unfaithful now--this is a terrible disaster to the soul. God in His mercy exposes no soul to
such dangers until she is as ready as may be, but He bides and He works in her till she is
ready. So it may very well be that it is not in this life that we come to Union, but later;
and the fact that we have not come to Union is a sign to increase our nearness to Christ by
as much as we can: the very smallest advance that we make in this life is of the utmost value
to us later.

VIII

The soul that is seeking Union with God must not, upon any pretext whatever, engage itself
in spiritualism. Spiritualism may have its great uses for the heart and mind which are without,
or are struggling for, belief--the heart and mind of Thomas seeking to touch, to have a proof;
but remember the words of the Saviour to Thomas: "Blessed are they," He says, "who have not
seen, and yet have believed." And we do not need to wait for death to receive this blessing,
but we receive it here. The soul that would find God must go to Him by means of His Holy Spirit,
and no other spirit but the Spirit of God can take us to Him; and to try to hold communications
with the spirits of men is not the way. The soul that has come to Union with God is perfectly
aware of the existence of spirits--is intensely aware,--but refuses to pay any attention if
she wise. Some of these spirits are very subtle, very knowing; some are full of flattery, and
very persistent; others present themselves as still in human form, and seek to terrify with
their terrible faces, some diabolical, some appearing to be in a great agony and undergoing
changes more astonishing and horrible than can be even imagined before experienced--and melting
only to be re-formed into that which is yet more fearful. Have nothing whatever to do with
spirits. Do not resist them when they come, but drop them behind by fixing heart, mind, and
soul on Christ. The Spirit of Christ easily overcomes every spirit, every evil, every fear,
and in order to ourselves overcome all such things, we need to unite with the Spirit of Jesus
Christ by concentrating upon Him with love, and ignoring obstructions. Those who have lent
themselves to spiritualism, hoping to find comfort, a lost friend, or even God Himself, when
they give it up (as they must do) they may find themselves greatly plagued by the fires with
which they have been playing; but these can soon be overcome by diligently uniting the heart
and mind to Jesus Christ.

IX

After coming to full Union with God, the mind becomes permanently attached to Him, and this
without effort; but in order that it shall be without effort, the will must be kept in a state
of loving attention to Him, and this again can only be done without effort if the heart is
so full of love that it desires nothing else than God; and this is dependent again upon the
grace which the soul receives from Him because of her love and response--so now we see, living
and working in our own being, the reason and meaning of His commandment to love Him with all
the heart, mind, soul, and strength. It is doing this after He has Himself given us the power
to do it which makes us able to live in the closest, most delicious and precious nearness to
God during all our waking hours. But it takes time, and it takes much pain to learn how to
live this, as it were, double life--this inward life of companionship, of wonderful and blessed
inward intercourse with God, and the outward intercourse of the senses with the world, our
everyday duties, and our fellow-beings. In our early stages we have profound innumerable difficulties
in understanding either our own capacities or God's wishes: we are terrified of losing Him,
and yet are often bewildered, and pained also, by some of the higher degrees in which He communicates
Himself. We do not understand how to leave God and return to earthly duties. Supposing that
we are altogether wrapped up in the company of God, and some fellow-being suddenly recalls
us to the world (the human voice can recall the soul as nothing else can), the pain is so great
as to be nothing less than anguish; and if done often would seriously affect the health of
the body.

But in a few years we learn to accomplish it without any shock.

One pain, however, remains, and it grows. I find myself unable to carry on a conversation with
anyone unless it is about God, or about some work which is for God and has to do with His pleasure
(and this is rare, because people are so glued to worldly affairs), for more than an hour,
and even less, without the most horrible, the most deathly, exhaustion, which is not only spiritual
but bodily--the face and lips losing all colour, the eyes their vitality: so dreadful is the
distress of the whole being that one is obliged, upon any kind of pretext, to withdraw from
all companions, and, if it is only for five minutes, be alone with God and, where no eye but
His can see, unite completely with Him once more, and immediately the whole being becomes revivified.
There is nothing else in life so wonderful, so rapturous as this swift reunion of the soul
with God; and the joy is not only the joy of the soul, because the heart and mind have their
fill of it too, for they too have ached and thirsted and hungered and longed, and now are satisfied.

If this measureless happiness could only be imagined by us before we experience it, how many
of us would be spurred to greater efforts instead of falling back amongst the dust and cobwebs
of Vanity!--but it cannot be imagined, and the only way to come to it is by faith and obedience;
and it is easy to see why this arrangement is necessary, for if we could imagine it thoroughly,
then we should probably try to get to God only on account of greed, and should find ourselves
drifting away instead of towards Him; it cannot be done by greed, greed being one of those
things which beguiled the soul away from Him to begin with; and He does not send the soul His
favours till she is free of, and has risen above, the dangers of greed and seeks Him for Himself
and not for His favours. As soon as it is safe for her He will give the soul continual favours,
because Perfect Love is ever desirous to give, and is only restrained on our account to withhold
favours. The soul which knows how to make all necessary preparations to receive Him becomes
a source of joy to God, for now He can give and give and no harm be done to that soul; but
He does not acquaint the soul too suddenly with all the joy that she is to Him, because she
would not (at least certainly my soul would not) be able to bear the knowledge of the privilege
that she enjoys, without some danger to herself,--and so, all unaware of the singularity of
the privilege that she enjoys without any analysis of her happiness, she concerns herself with
sweetly obeying Him, with singing to Him, and with giving Him all that she has all the day
long, and so hovers before Him as delightful simplicity and love.

This Union with God varies so much in degree that it makes an effect of endless variety. Yet
it is all one same joy, it is the joy of angels reduced to such degree as makes it bearable
to flesh: the soul knows that it is the joy of angels that she is receiving the first time
that she has it given to her: immediately on receipt of this joy she comprehends the mode of
heavenly living; she knows it is but the outer edge that she touches, but what means so much
to her is that she has recaptured the knowledge of this mode of living: henceforth it is a
question of progress, she bends all her attention to progress so that she may get nearer and
nearer to God, so that she may do everything to please this suddenly refound, unspeakably beloved
God.

She desires to get nearer and nearer to God in spite of the pain that she often experiences.
Perhaps the first pains we experience are when we are in contemplation of God and are caught
by God into High Contemplation. He will at times expose the soul to so much of the Divine Power
that she cannot sever herself from the too great fulness of Union with God, though the body
is crying to her to do it and the sufferings of the body are all felt by the soul, which is
pulled two ways: all this is very painful and makes us almost in a fear of God again. Why should
Perfect Love inflict this pain on us? It may be to remind us that He is not only Love, but
Power, Might, Majesty, and Dominion also. Yet could this ever be forgotten? It seems incredible.
But it does not do to trust to one's soul, or to count on what she will do or not do: we know
that the soul has forgotten almost everything about God, so much so that we are now thankful
to arrive even so far as being quite certain that He exists! What infinite kindness that He
should consent and condescend to Himself be her Teacher! But He does so condescend, and the
more the soul relearns of God, the more she also learns that He is never weary of working for
us all: this keeps the soul in a state of intense gratitude.

* * *

