The Army during the past year has been actively engaged in defending the Indian frontier, the
state of the service permitting but few and small garrisons in our permanent fortifications.
The additional regiments authorized at the last session of Congress have been recruited and
organized, and a large portion of the troops have already been sent to the field. All the duties
which devolve on the military establishment have been satisfactorily performed, and the dangers
and privations incident to the character of the service required of our troops have furnished
additional evidence of their courage, zeal, and capacity to meet any requisition which their
country may make upon them. For the details of the military operations, the distribution of
the troops, and additional provisions required for the military service, I refer to the report
of the Secretary of War and the accompanying documents.

Experience gathered from events which have transpired since my last annual message has but
served to confirm the opinion then expressed of the propriety of making provision by a retired
list for disabled officers and for increased compensation to the officers retained on the list
for active duty. All the reasons which existed when these measures were recommended on former
occasions continue without modification, except so far as circumstances have given to some
of them additional force.

The recommendations heretofore made for a partial reorganization of the Army are also renewed.
The thorough elementary education given to those officers who commenced their service with
the grade of cadet qualifies them to a considerable extent to perform the duties of every arm
of the service; but to give the highest efficiency to artillery requires the practice and special
study of many years, and it is not, therefore, believed to be advisable to maintain in time
of peace a larger force of that arm than can be usually employed in the duties appertaining
to the service of field and siege artillery. The duties of the staff in all its various branches
belong to the movements of troops, and the efficiency of an army in the field would materially
depend upon the ability with which those duties are discharged. It is not, as in the case of
the artillery, a specialty, but requires also an intimate knowledge of the duties of an officer
of the line, and it is not doubted that to complete the education of an officer for either
the line or the general staff it is desirable that he shall have served in both. With this
view, it was recommended on a former occasion that the duties of the staff should be mainly
performed by details from the line, and, with conviction of the advantages which would result
from such a change, it is again presented for the consideration of Congress.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy, herewith submitted, exhibits in full the naval operations
of the past year, together with the present condition of the service, and it makes suggestions
of further legislation, to which your attention is invited.

The construction of the six steam frigates for which appropriations were made by the last Congress
has proceeded in the most satisfactory manner and with such expedition as to warrant the belief
that they will be ready for service early in the coming spring. Important as this addition
to our naval force is, it still remains inadequate to the contingent exigencies of the protection
of the extensive seacoast and vast commercial interests of the United States. In view of this
fact and of the acknowledged wisdom of the policy of a gradual and systematic increase of the
Navy an appropriation is recommended for the construction of six steam sloops of war.

In regard to the steps taken in execution of the act of Congress to promote the efficiency
of the Navy, it is unnecessary for me to say more than to express entire concurrence in the
observations on that subject presented by the Secretary in his report.

It will be perceived by the report of the postmaster-General that the gross expenditure of
the Department for the last fiscal year was $9,968,342 and the gross receipts $7,342,136, making
an excess of expenditure over receipts of $2,626,206; and that the cost of mail transportation
during that year was $674,952 greater than the previous year. Much of the heavy expenditures
to which the Treasury is thus subjected is to be ascribed to the large quantity of printed
matter conveyed by the mails, either franked or liable to no postage by law or to very low
rates of postage compared with that charged on letters, and to the great cost of mail service
on railroads and by ocean steamers. The suggestions of the Postmaster-General on the subject
deserve the consideration of Congress.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior will engage your attention as well for useful suggestions
it contains as for the interest and importance of the subjects to which they refer.

The aggregate amount of public land sold during the last fiscal year, located with military
scrip or land warrants, taken up under grants for roads, and selected as swamp lands by States
is 24,557,409 acres, of which the portion sold was 15,729,524 acres, yielding in receipts the
sum of $11,485,380. In the same period of time 8,723,854 acres have been surveyed, but, in
consideration of the quantity already subject to entry, no additional tracts have been brought
into market.

The peculiar relation of the General Government to the District of Columbia renders it proper
to commend to your care not only its material but also its moral interests, including education,
more especially in those parts of the District outside of the cities of Washington and Georgetown.

The commissioners appointed to revise and codify the laws of the District have made such progress
in the performance of their task as to insure its completion in the time prescribed by the
act of Congress.

Information has recently been received that the peace of the settlements in the Territories
of Oregon and Washington is disturbed by hostilities on the part of the Indians, with indications
of extensive combinations of a hostile character among the tribes in that quarter, the more
serious in their possible effect by reason of the undetermined foreign interests existing in
those Territories, to which your attention has already been especially invited. Efficient measures
have been taken, which, it is believed, will restore quiet and afford protection to our citizens.

In the Territory of Kansas there have been acts prejudicial to good order, but as yet none
have occurred under circumstances to justify the interposition of the Federal Executive. That
could only be in case of obstruction to Federal law or of organized resistance to Territorial
law, assuming the character of insurrection, which, if it should occur, it would be my duty
promptly to overcome and suppress. I cherish the hope, however, that the occurrence of any
such untoward event will be prevented by the sound sense of the people of the Territory, who
by its organic law, possessing the right to determine their own domestic institutions, are
entitled while deporting themselves peacefully to the free exercise of that right, and must
be protected in the enjoyment of it without interference on the part of the citizens of any
of the States. The southern boundary line of this Territory has never been surveyed and established.
The rapidly extending settlements in that region and the fact that the main route between Independence,
in the State of Missouri, and New Mexico is contiguous in this line suggest the probability
that embarrassing questions of jurisdiction may consequently arise. For these and other considerations
I commend the subject to your early attention.

I have thus passed in review the general state of the Union, including such particular concerns
of the Federal Government, whether of domestic or foreign relation, as it appeared to me desirable
and useful to bring to the special notice of Congress. Unlike the great States of Europe and
Asia and many of those of America, these United States are wasting their strength neither in
foreign war nor domestic strife. Whatever of discontent or public dissatisfaction exists is
attributable to the imperfections of human nature or is incident to all governments, however
perfect, which human wisdom can devise. Such subjects of political agitation as occupy the
public mind consist to a great extent of exaggeration of inevitable evils, or over zeal in
social improvement, or mere imagination of grievance, having but remote connection with any
of the constitutional functions or duties of the Federal Government. To whatever extent these
questions exhibit a tendency menacing to the stability of the Constitution or the integrity
of the Union, and no further, they demand the consideration of the Executive and require to
be presented by him to Congress.

Before the thirteen colonies became a confederation of independent States they were associated
only by community of transatlantic origin, by geographical position, and by the mutual tie
of common dependence on Great Britain. When that tie was sundered they severally assumed the
powers and rights of absolute self-government. The municipal and social institutions of each,
its laws of property and of personal relation, even its political organization, were such only
as each one chose to establish, wholly without interference from any other. In the language
of the Declaration of Independence, each State had "full power to levy war, conclude peace,
contract alliances, establish commerce, and to do all other acts and things which independent
states may of right do." The several colonies differed in climate, in soil, in natural productions,
in religion, in systems of education, in legislation, and in the forms of political administration,
and they continued to differ in these respects when they voluntarily allied themselves as States
to carry on the War of the Revolution. The object of that war was to disenthrall the united
colonies from foreign rule, which had proved to be oppressive, and to separate them permanently
from the mother country. The political result was the foundation of a Federal Republic of the
free white men of the colonies, constituted, as they were, in distinct and reciprocally independent
State governments. As for the subject races, whether Indian or African, the wise and brave
statesmen of that day, being engaged in no extravagant scheme of social change, left them as
they were, and thus preserved themselves and their posterity from the anarchy and the ever-recurring
civil wars which have prevailed in other revolutionized European colonies of America.

When the confederated States found it convenient to modify the conditions of their association
by giving to the General Government direct access in some respects to the people of the States,
instead of confining it to action on the States as such, they proceeded to frame the existing
Constitution, adhering steadily to one guiding thought, which was to delegate only such power
as was necessary and proper to the execution of specific purposes, or, in other words, to retain
as much as possible consistently with those purposes of the independent powers of the individual
States. For objects of common defense and security, they intrusted to the General Government
certain carefully defined functions, leaving all others as the undelegated rights of the separate
independent sovereignties.

Such is the constitutional theory of our Government, the practical observance of which has
carried us, and us alone among modern republics, through nearly three generations of time without
the cost of one drop of blood shed in civil war. With freedom and concert of action, it has
enabled us to contend successfully on the battlefield against foreign foes, has elevated the
feeble colonies into powerful States, and has raised our industrial productions and our commerce
which transports them to the level of the richest and the greatest nations of Europe. And the
admirable adaptation of our political institutions to their objects, combining local self-government
with aggregate strength, has established the practicability of a government like ours to cover
a continent with confederate states.

The Congress of the United States is in effect that congress of sovereignties which good men
in the Old World have sought for, but could never attain, and which imparts to America an exemption
from the mutable leagues for common action, from the wars, the mutual invasions, and vague
aspirations after the balance of power which convulse from time to time the Governments of
Europe. Our cooperative action rests in the conditions of permanent confederation prescribed
by the Constitution. Our balance of power is in the separate reserved rights of the States
and their equal representation in the Senate. That independent sovereignty in every one of
the States, with its reserved rights of local self-government assured to each by their coequal
power in the Senate, was the fundamental condition of the Constitution. Without it the Union
would never have existed. However desirous the larger States might be to reorganize the Government
so as to give to their population its proportionate weight in the common counsels, they knew
it was impossible unless they conceded to the smaller ones authority to exercise at least a
negative influence on all the measures of the Government, whether legislative or executive,
through their equal representation in the Senate. Indeed, the larger States themselves could
not have failed to perceive that the same power was equally necessary to them for the security
of their own domestic interests against the aggregate force of the General Government. In a
word, the original States went into this permanent league on the agreed premises of exerting
their common strength for the defense of the whole and of all its parts, but of utterly excluding
all capability of reciprocal aggression. Each solemnly bound itself to all the others neither
to undertake nor permit any encroachment upon or intermeddling with another's reserved rights.

Where it was deemed expedient particular rights of the States were expressly guaranteed by
the Constitution, but in all things besides these rights were guarded by the limitation of
the powers granted and by express reservation of all powers not granted in the compact of union.
Thus the great power of taxation was limited to purposes of common defense and general welfare,
excluding objects appertaining to the local legislation of the several States; and those purposes
of general welfare and common defense were afterwards defined by specific enumeration as being
matters only of co-relation between the States themselves or between them and foreign governments,
which, because of their common and general nature, could not be left to the separate control
of each State.

Of the circumstances of local condition, interest, and rights in which a portion of the States,
constituting one great section of the Union, differed from the rest and from another section,
the most important was the peculiarity of a larger relative colored population in the Southern
than in the Northern States.

A population of this class, held in subjection, existed in nearly all the States, but was more
numerous and of more serious concernment in the South than in the North on account of natural
differences of climate and production; and it was foreseen that, for the same reasons, while
this population would diminish and sooner or later cease to exist in some States, it might
increase in others. The peculiar character and magnitude of this question of local rights,
not in material relations only, but still more in social ones, caused it to enter into the
special stipulations of the Constitution.

Hence, while the General Government, as well by the enumerated powers granted to it as by those
not enumerated, and therefore refused to it, was forbidden to touch this matter in the sense
of attack or offense, it was placed under the general safeguard of the Union in the sense of
defense against either invasion or domestic violence, like all other local interests of the
several States.

Thus and thus only, by the reciprocal guaranty of all the rights of every State against interference
on the part of another, was the present form of government established by our fathers and transmitted
to us, and by no other means is it possible for it to exist. If one State ceases to respect
the rights of another and obtrusively intermeddles with its local interests; if a portion of
the States assume to impose their institutions on the others or refuse to fulfill their obligations
to them, we are no longer united, friendly States, but distracted, hostile ones, with little
capacity left of common advantage, but abundant means of reciprocal injury and mischief. Practically
it is immaterial whether aggressive interference between the States or deliberate refusal on
the part of any one of them to comply with constitutional obligations arise from erroneous
conviction or blind prejudice, whether it be perpetrated by direction or indirection. In either
case it is full of threat and of danger to the durability of the Union.

Placed in the office of Chief Magistrate as the executive agent of the whole country, bound
to take care that the laws be faithfully executed, and specially enjoined by the Constitution
to give information to Congress on the state of the Union, it would be palpable neglect of
duty on my part to pass over a subject like this, which beyond all things at the present time
vitally concerns individual and public security.

It has been matter of painful regret to see States conspicuous for their services in rounding
this Republic and equally sharing its advantages disregard their constitutional obligations
to it. Although conscious of their inability to heal admitted and palpable social evils of
their own, and which are completely within their jurisdiction, they engage in the offensive
and hopeless undertaking of reforming the domestic institutions of other States, wholly beyond
their control and authority. In the vain pursuit of ends by them entirely unattainable, and
which they may not legally attempt to compass, they peril the very existence of the Constitution
and all the countless benefits which it has conferred. While the people of the Southern States
confine their attention to their own affairs, not presuming officiously to intermeddle with
the social institutions of the Northern States, too many of the inhabitants of the latter are
permanently organized in associations to inflict injury on the former by wrongful acts, which
would be cause of war as between foreign powers and only fail to be such in our system because
perpetrated under cover of the Union.

Is it possible to present this subject as truth and the occasion require without noticing the
reiterated but groundless allegation that the South has persistently asserted claims and obtained
advantages in the practical administration of the General Government to the prejudice of the
North, and in which the latter has acquiesced? That is, the States which either promote or
tolerate attacks on the rights of persons and of property in other States, to disguise their
own injustice, pretend or imagine, and constantly aver, that they, whose constitutional rights
are thus systematically assailed, are themselves the aggressors. At the present time this imputed
aggression, resting, as it does, only in the vague declamatory charges of political agitators,
resolves itself into misapprehension, or misinterpretation, of the principles and facts of
the political organization of the new Territories of the United States.

What is the voice of history? When the ordinance which provided for the government of the territory
northwest of the river Ohio and for its eventual subdivision into new States was adopted in
the Congress of the Confederation, it is not to be supposed that the question of future relative
power as between the States which retained and those which did not retain a numerous colored
population escaped notice or failed to be considered. And yet the concession of that vast territory
to the interests and opinions of the Northern States, a territory now the seat of five among
the largest members of the Union, was in great measure the act of the State of Virginia and
of the South.

When Louisiana was acquired by the United States, it was an acquisition not less to the North
than to the South; for while it was important to the country at the mouth of the river Mississippi
to become the emporium of the country above it, so also it was even more important to the whole
Union to have that emporium; and although the new province, by reason of its imperfect settlement,
was mainly regarded as on the Gulf of Mexico, yet in fact it extended to the opposite boundaries
of the United States, with far greater breadth above than below, and was in territory, as in
everything else, equally at least an accession to the Northern States. It is mere delusion
and prejudice, therefore, to speak of Louisiana as acquisition in the special interest of the
South.

The patriotic and just men who participated in the act were influenced by motives far above
all sectional jealousies. It was in truth the great event which, by completing for us the possession
of the Valley of the Mississippi, with commercial access to the Gulf of Mexico, imparted unity
and strength to the whole Confederation and attached together by indissoluble ties the East
and the West, as well as the North and the South.

As to Florida, that was but the transfer by Spain to the United States of territory on the
east side of the river Mississippi in exchange for large territory which the United States
transferred to Spain on the west side of that river, as the entire diplomatic history of the
transaction serves to demonstrate. Moreover, it was an acquisition demanded by the commercial
interests and the security of the whole Union. In the meantime the people of the United States
had grown up to a proper consciousness of their strength, and in a brief contest with France
and in a second serious war with Great Britain they had shaken off all which remained of undue
reverence for Europe, and emerged from the atmosphere of those transatlantic influences which
surrounded the infant Republic, and had begun to turn their attention to the full and systematic
development of the internal resources of the Union.

Among the evanescent controversies of that period the most conspicuous was the question of
regulation by Congress of the social condition of the future States to be rounded in the territory
of Louisiana.

The ordinance for the government of the territory northwest of the river Ohio had contained
a provision which prohibited the use of servile labor therein, subject to the condition of
the extraditions of fugitives from service due in any other part of the United States. Subsequently
to the adoption of the Constitution this provision ceased to remain as a law, for its operation
as such was absolutely superseded by the Constitution. But the recollection of the fact excited
the zeal of social propagandism in some sections of the Confederation, and when a second State,
that of Missouri, came to be formed in the territory of Louisiana proposition was made to extend
to the latter territory the restriction originally applied to the country situated between
the rivers Ohio and Mississippi.

Most questionable as was this proposition in all its constitutional relations, nevertheless
it received the sanction of Congress, with some slight modifications of line, to save the existing
rights of the intended new State. It was reluctantly acquiesced in by Southern States as a
sacrifice to the cause of peace and of the Union, not only of the rights stipulated by the
treaty of Louisiana, but of the principle of equality among the States guaranteed by the Constitution.
It was received by the Northern States with angry and resentful condemnation and complaint,
because it did not concede all which they had exactingly demanded. Having passed through the
forms of legislation, it took its place in the statute book, standing open to repeal, like
any other act of doubtful constitutionality, subject to be pronounced null and void by the
courts of law, and possessing no possible efficacy to control the rights of the States which
might thereafter be organized out of any part of the original territory of Louisiana.

In all this, if any aggression there were, any innovation upon preexisting rights, to which
portion of the Union are they justly chargeable? This controversy passed away with the occasion,
nothing surviving it save the dormant letter of the statute.

But long afterwards, when by the proposed accession of the Republic of Texas the United States
were to take their next step in territorial greatness, a similar contingency occurred and became
the occasion for systematized attempts to intervene in the domestic affairs of one section
of the Union, in defiance of their rights as States and of the stipulations of the Constitution.
These attempts assumed a practical direction in the shape of persevering endeavors by some
of the Representatives in both Houses of Congress to deprive the Southern States of the supposed
benefit of the provisions of the act authorizing the organization of the State of Missouri.

But the good sense of the people and the vital force of the Constitution triumphed over sectional
prejudice and the political errors of the day, and the State of Texas returned to the Union
as she was, with social institutions which her people had chosen for themselves and with express
agreement by the reannexing act that she should be susceptible of subdivision into a plurality
of States.

Whatever advantage the interests of the Southern States, as such, gained by this were far inferior
in results, as they unfolded in the progress of time, to those which sprang from previous concessions
made by the South.

To every thoughtful friend of the Union, to the true lovers of their country, to all who longed
and labored for the full success of this great experiment of republican institutions, it was
cause of gratulation that such an opportunity had occurred to illustrate our advancing power
on this continent and to furnish to the world additional assurance of the strength and stability
of the Constitution. Who would wish to see Florida still a European colony? Who would rejoice
to hail Texas as a lone star instead of one in the galaxy of States? Who does not appreciate
the incalculable benefits of the acquisition of Louisiana? And yet narrow views and sectional
purposes would inevitably have excluded them all from the Union.

But another struggle on the same point ensued when our victorious armies returned from Mexico
and it devolved on Congress to provide for the territories acquired by the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo. The great relations of the subject had now become distinct and clear to the perception
of the public mind, which appreciated the evils of sectional controversy upon the question
of the admission of new States. In that crisis intense solicitude pervaded the nation. But
the patriotic impulses of the popular heart, guided by the admonitory advice of the Father
of his Country, rose superior to all the difficulties of the incorporation of a new empire
into the Union. In the counsels of Congress there was manifested extreme antagonism of opinion
and action between some Representatives, who sought by the abusive and unconstitutional employment
of the legislative powers of the Government to interfere in the condition of the inchoate States
and to impose their own social theories upon the latter, and other Representatives, who repelled
the interposition of the General Government in this respect and maintained the self-constituting
rights of the States. In truth, the thing attempted was in form alone action of the General
Government, while in reality it was the endeavor, by abuse of legislative power, to force the
ideas of internal policy entertained in particular States upon allied independent States. Once
more the Constitution and the Union triumphed signally. The new territories were organized
without restrictions on the disputed point, and were thus left to judge in that particular
for themselves; and the sense of constitutional faith proved vigorous enough in Congress not
only to accomplish this primary object, but also the incidental and hardly less important one
of so amending the provisions of the statute for the extradition of fugitives from service
as to place that public duty under the safeguard of the General Government, and thus relieve
it from obstacles raised up by the legislation of some of the States.

Vain declamation regarding the provisions of law for the extradition of fugitives from service,
with occasional episodes of frantic effort to obstruct their execution by riot and murder,
continued for a brief time to agitate certain localities. But the true principle of leaving
each State and Territory to regulate its own laws of labor according to its own sense of right
and expediency had acquired fast hold of the public judgment, to such a degree that by common
consent it was observed in the organization of the Territory of Washington. When, more recently,
it became requisite to organize the Territories of Nebraska and Kansas, it was the natural
and legitimate, if not the inevitable, consequence of previous events and legislation that
the same great and sound principle which had already been applied to Utah and New Mexico should
be applied to them--that they should stand exempt from the restrictions proposed in the act
relative to the State of Missouri.

These restrictions were, in the estimation of many thoughtful men, null from the beginning,
unauthorized by the Constitution, contrary to the treaty stipulations for the cession of Louisiana,
and inconsistent with the equality of these States.

