There is so much difficulty in carrying Coleus through the winter in vigorous health that the
modern plan of treating it as an annual is advantageous for the saving of trouble and fire-heat
in winter, and also because it offers the charm of constant diversity. The fact is that our
winter days are too short and gloomy to maintain the splendour of colouring which makes Coleus
so attractive and valuable; and seed from a good strain may be relied on to produce plants
which will delight the eye all through the summer and autumn. Some experienced men sow in February
and succeed, but the majority of cultivators will show prudence by waiting until March, when
increased daylight favours the rapid growth of the plants. Flowerpots are better than pans,
as the greater depth affords opportunity of securing effectual drainage. The pots should be
nearly half-filled with crocks, covered with a layer of moss to prevent the soil from being
washed away. Fill them with light turfy loam, mingled with almost an equal bulk of sharp sand.
Make an even surface, on which sow thinly, and shake over the seed a slight covering of fine
soil. Place the pots in a temperature of not less than 65°. Watering needs particular care,
because of the peculiar liability of the young plants to damp off, especially in dull weather.
The strongest seedlings are pretty certain to be those in which green and black predominate,
and they may without scruple be removed to make way for the slower-growing but better-coloured
specimens. These should be transplanted round the edges of pots while quite small; and such
as show delicate tints, especially those having pink markings on a golden ground, are worth
nursing through the early stage with extra care. The pots must be shaded from direct sunshine,
but should be kept near the glass. In May the plants will be large enough for 48-sized pots,
beyond which there is no occasion to go. When the pots become full of roots the foliage increases
in brilliancy, whereas larger pots encourage free growth to the detriment of colour. A dry
atmosphere is particularly injurious, while an occasional dose of manure water will maintain
the plants in health.

==COLUMBINE--=see= AQUILEGIA==

==COSMEA==

==Cosmos. Half-hardy annual==

Cosmeas make a striking show in the mixed border, and the flowers are also in large request
for indoor decoration. Disappointment is often caused, however, through the plants failing
to bloom until late in the season, and therefore it is important to grow an early-flowering
strain in order to insure a long-continued display. The most successful method of raising plants
is to sow the seed in pots during February, pricking off the plants as soon as large enough.
When the first flowers appear in May, transplant to positions in the open immediately danger
from frost is past.

==CYCLAMEN==

==Half-hardy perennial==

Gardeners of experience will remember the time when the predominant colours of Cyclamen were
purple and magenta, and it was impossible for the most friendly critic to feel enthusiastic
concerning these flowers. But the new colours--Salmon Pink, Salmon Scarlet, the intense Vulcan,
Rose Queen and Cherry Red, together with Giant White and White Butterfly--are now regarded
as the brightest and most beautiful decorative subjects for the long period of dark winter
days of which Christmas is the centre. As cut flowers for the dinner-table Cyclamens have no
rival at that period of the year, and as specimen plants in the home they are delightful for
their free-flowering habit, compact form, and elegant foliage.

Seed may be sown at any time during autumn or the early part of the year, and the plants will
not only flower within twelve months, but if properly grown will produce more bloom than can
be obtained from old bulbs. We do not advise more than three sowings, the first and most important
of which should be made in August or the beginning of September. To obtain a succession of
plants, sow again in October and for the last time early in the new year. Those who have not
hitherto grown Cyclamen for midwinter blooming will be well pleased with the result. It is
quite as easy to flower them in the winter as in the longer days, and this is more than can
be said about most plants.

The best soil for Cyclamen is a rich, sound loam, with a liberal admixture of leaf-mould, and
sufficient silver sand to insure free drainage. Press this mixture firmly into pots or seed-pans,
and dibble the seed about an inch apart and not more than a quarter of an inch deep. Cover
the surface with a thin layer of leaves or fibrous material to check rapid evaporation, and
later on keep the soil free from moss. The autumn sowings may at first be placed in a frame
having a temperature of not less than 45°. At the end of a fortnight transfer the pans to any
warm and moist position in the greenhouse or propagating house.

Although the Cyclamen is a tender plant, it does not need a strong heat, and will not endure
extremes of any kind. Sudden changes are always fatal to its growth. In winter the temperature
should not be allowed to fall below 56°, or to rise above 70° at any time. The more evenly
the heat can be maintained the better, and it is desirable to give all the light possible.
In summer, however, although a warm and humid atmosphere is still necessary, the light may
with advantage be somewhat subdued, but shading must not be overdone, or the constitution of
the plant will suffer.

Cyclamen seed not only germinates slowly, but it also grows in the most capricious manner;
sometimes a few plants come up long after others have made a good start. Do not be impatient
of their appearance, but when some seedlings are large enough for removal transfer to thumb
pots, taking care not to insert them too deeply. As the plants develop, shift into larger pots,
ending finally in the 48-size. In the later stages mix less sand with the soil, and when potting
always leave the crown of the corm clear. Keep the plants near the glass, and as the sun becomes
powerful it will be necessary to provide shade and prevent excess of heat. Never allow the
seedlings to suffer from want of water, or to become a prey to aphis. To avoid the latter,
occasional, or it may be frequent, fumigations must be resorted to. About the end of May should
find the most forward plants ready for shifting into 60-pots. Give all the air possible to
promote a sturdy growth. In doing this, however, avoid draughts of cold air. From the end of
June to the middle of July the finest plants should be ready for their final shift into 48-pots,
in which they will flower admirably. The growth during August and September will be very free,
and then occasional assistance with weak manure water will add to the size and colour of the
flowers. As the evenings shorten, save the plants from chills, which result in deformed blossoms.

The whole secret of successful Cyclamen culture may be summed up in a few words: constant and
unvarying heat, a moist atmosphere, and abundant supplies of water without stagnation; free
circulation of air, avoiding cold draughts; light in winter, and shade in summer, with freedom
from insect pests. These conditions will keep the plants in vigorous growth from first to last,
and the result will be so bountiful a bloom as to prove the soundness of the rapid system of
cultivation. This routine may be varied by the experienced cultivator, but the principles will
remain the same in all cases, because the natural constitution of the plant gives the key to
its management.

==DAHLIA==

==Half-hardy perennial==

Both the double and the single classes of Dahlia are increasingly grown as annuals from seed,
and this practice has the great advantage of being economical in time and in the saving of
space during winter. The seedlings grow freely and quickly, and will flower quite as early
as those grown by the more lengthy and troublesome method from tubers. Even those who possess
a stock of named sorts may with advantage raise a supply from seed, especially as there is
a probability of securing some charming novelty, which is in itself no small incentive.

Although the Dahlia is a tender plant, it is easily managed in a greenhouse, or in a frame
resting on a hot-bed. The seed may be sown as early as January, but unless sufficient space
is at command to keep the plants stocky as they develop, it will be wise to wait until February.
A sowing in the month last named will produce plants forward enough to bloom at the usual time.
Even March will not be too late; but whatever time may be chosen, when the start has been made
it must be followed up with diligence, so as to avoid giving any check from first to last.
Sow thinly in pots or pans filled with ordinary light rich compost, and cover the seed with
a mere sprinkling of fine earth. When the first pair of leaves attain the height of an inch,
pot off each plant singly close up to the base of the leaves. It is not advisable to throw
the weakly seedlings away; these are the very plants which are most likely to display new shades
of colour and they are worth some additional trouble. Although weak at the outset, they may,
by judicious treatment, be developed into a thriving and healthy condition.

When potted, place the plants in heat, giving a little extra care until growth is fairly started.
In due time shift into larger sizes as may be necessary, and then it will be wise to consider
whether there is space to grow the whole stock well. If not, do not hesitate to sacrifice the
surplus, and in doing so reject the rankest-growing specimens, for these are least likely to
produce a fine display of bloom. It is mistaken practice to take out the top shoot, as this
checks the plant for no good end; but when about six inches high, each one will need the support
of a stick. Give water freely, and air on all suitable occasions. The least tendency to curled
leaves indicates something amiss, and demands immediate attention. A cold blast may have stricken
the plants, or the soil may be poor; lack of sufficient water will produce the mischief, or
it may arise from the presence of aphis. If the last-named assumption prove correct, fumigate
on the first quiet evening, and omit watering on that day. The mere mention of the other points
will be sufficient to show the remedy for them.

As the time for transfer to the open air approaches, all that is possible should be done to
harden the plants for the change. They may be placed for a few days under the shelter of a
wall or hedge, but on the least sign of frost be prepared to protect with hurdles or mats.
Full exposure during genial showers and fair weather is advisable, and an occasional examination
of the plants will prevent their rooting through the pots into the soil.

The border for Dahlias can scarcely be made too rich, for they are hungry and thirsty subjects,
and will amply repay in a profusion of bloom the manure that may be lavished upon them. Slugs
and snails are unfortunately too partial to newly planted Dahlias, but the vermin soon cease
to care about them; therefore it is advisable to plant Lettuces plentifully at the same time,
or previously, on the same ground, and to dust around the Dahlias with lime. Insert at least
one stake, about a yard long, near each plant, to give support, and two or three others will
have to be given before the branches spread far. Secure the first shoot when planting is completed,
and follow up the tying as growth demands.

Dahlias bloom continuously for a long time, and appear to be especially at home in the shrubbery
border, or in the centre of a bed. They are also valuable for training against buildings having
a southern aspect, and here the flowering period is much prolonged, for an early frost will
scarcely reach them. A light wall is an admirable background for deep-coloured varieties, and
the white or yellow flowers are displayed to advantage against a dark building. Dahlias may
be used either alone or in company with the climbing plants which are usual in such positions.

The flowers possess a special value for indoor decoration, and any odd corner of the garden
can be utilised for producing a supply for this purpose. Cutting should invariably be done
in the early morning, while yet the dew is upon them. They will then retain their beauty for
a longer period than those taken at a later hour from the same plants. This remark is true
of all flowers, but it applies with especial force to the Dahlia.

==DAISY, DOUBLE==

==Bellis perennis fl. pl. Hardy perennial==

The remarkable development of the Double Daisy in recent years has raised this simple garden
subject to the foremost rank of spring bedding plants. So pronounced has been the improvement
achieved in the size and form of the flowers, that plants raised from a reliable strain of
seed will now produce blooms which may well be mistaken for specimens of finely shaped Asters.
When massed in a large bed the flowers present one of the most striking sights to be seen anywhere
in the spring garden. But apart from their use in formal beds and borders, Double Daisies make
a pleasing break among Wallflowers, and are particularly attractive when grown as an edging
to bulbous flowers and other spring-blooming subjects such as Polyanthus, Myosotis, &c. Plants
from a sowing made in pans in April and put out when large enough, may be flowered in the autumn
of the same year. But the method more generally practised is to sow on prepared beds in the
open during June or July, and to transfer the seedlings when sufficiently developed to positions
for blooming in the following season.

==DELPHINIUM==

==Hardy perennial==

Nearly all the perennial varieties may be raised from seed, and where large numbers are required
this is the best method of obtaining them. They make handsome border flowers, and are extremely
valuable during the early months of summer. Sow in May, June or July, in the open ground, and
transplant in autumn. If mixed seed has been sown, it will not be wise to thin out all the
weakly plants, or it may happen that some of the choicest shades may be lost. The first flowers
will be over by midsummer, but if the stalks are promptly cut down instead of being allowed
to seed, there will be a second display later in the year.

Three varieties, Queen of Blues, Dwarf Porcelain Blue, and Blue Butterfly, may be flowered
as annuals, by sowing in pans in March and transplanting to the open as soon as the seedlings
are ready. They also make particularly charming pot plants, for which purpose it is advisable
to sow seeds in March.

The scarlet variety (=D. nudicaule=) is rather more delicate than the others, and it is wise
to raise the plants in well-drained seed-pans, and to take care of them through the first winter
in a cold frame; indeed, in a heavy soil there is a risk of losing them in any winter which
is both cold and wet. It is not necessary to employ pots, but immediately after flowering take
them up and store in peat until the following April, when they can be returned to the open ground.

=D. sulphureum.= The seed takes a very long time to germinate, and severely taxes the patience
of the sower. But otherwise there is no difficulty in raising plants, and the long spikes of
beautiful clear sulphur-yellow flowers are well worth the extra time the seedlings need. The
best plan is to sow in autumn in the open ground, cover with a frame, and avoid disturbing
the soil, except for weeding, until the next autumn, when the plants should be put into position
for flowering in the following summer.

As slugs are exceedingly partial to Delphiniums, the crowns should be examined in spring, and
the seed-beds may be dressed with soot and surrounded with ashes to save the seedlings from injury.

The annual Delphiniums are dealt with under Larkspur, page 274.

==DIANTHUS==

==Pink. Biennials, hardy and half-hardy==

Many varieties of Dianthus claim attention for their elegant forms and splendour of colouring.
They have been so wonderfully improved by scientific growers that they almost supersede the
old garden Pinks, and have the great advantage of coming true from seed. =D. Heddewigii= (Japan
Pink) and its varieties, =D. chinensis= (Indian Pink) and =D. imperialis=, make interesting
and sumptuous beds, and may all be flowered the first year from sowings made in heat in January
or February. Immediately the seedlings are through the soil it is important to shift them to
a rather lower temperature than is necessary for insuring germination, or the plants become
soft and worthless. Be very sparing with water, especially if the soil is at all retentive.
When two leaves are formed, transfer to pans, allowing about an inch between each plant, and
place in a sheltered position. Gradually introduce to cool treatment, and when ready prick
off again, allowing each plant more space. They will thus have a much better start, when planted
out in May, than if taken from the seed-pans direct. Dianthus make a most attractive display
in pots, and a number of seedlings should be potted on for flowering in this manner.

Where there are no facilities for raising Dianthus in heat, it is quite easy to grow plants
in an open spot from a sowing in June or July, and they will flower freely in the following
year. Prepare drills about six inches apart and line them with sifted soil; sow thinly, and
carefully cover the seed with fine soil. Shade must be given during germination, but it should
be gradually withdrawn when the seedlings are up. Transfer to final positions in August. Should
this be impossible, prick the plants out, and shift them again a little later. It will only
do harm to leave them crowded in the seed-bed, and the second move will better enable them
to withstand winter frosts. The Dianthus thrives in a sandy or loamy soil, with full exposure
to sunshine, and the plants scarcely need water or any attention the whole season through.

==DIGITALIS==

==Foxglove. Hardy biennial==

Besides the native Purple Foxglove, largely grown in gardens, there are several very handsome
varieties that are valuable for adorning borders, shrubberies and woodland walks. Specially
worthy of attention are Giant Primrose, a beautiful variety with rich cream or buff flowers;
the Giant Spotted, which produces handsome flowers, rich and varied in colour; and the white
variety with its abundance of charming ivory-white bells, which are occasionally slightly spotted.

Any deep rich soil suits Digitalis, and seed sown in May, June, or July will produce seedlings
which, with very little attention, will yield a fine display of flowers in the following summer.
Sow in the open in pans, or on a prepared border, and put the young plants into permanent positions,
choosing showery weather in August or September.

==DIMORPHOTHECA==

==Half-hardy annual==

The Dimorphotheca, also called the Star of the Veldt, was introduced into this country from
South Africa and, like the Nemesia, also a native of that Dominion, it has become one of the
most valuable of our summer annuals. Under favourable conditions plants may be flowered in
six weeks from time of sowing and they will continue to bloom in profusion until cut down by
frost. In addition to the striking orange flower, =D. aurantiaca= (Orange Daisy), a wide range
of colours, including many delicate tints, has been evolved by careful hybridisation.

Those who wish to obtain forward plants should sow during March or April in pans of light soil
placed in a cold frame, and the seedlings will be ready for transfer to open quarters in May.
Or seed may safely be sown in the open ground in May and June. As suggested by its native habitat,
the Dimorphotheca loves a warm sunny position and grows to the greatest perfection in a light
soil or a well-drained loam.

The practice of flowering half-hardy annuals in pots is rapidly increasing, and among this
class of plants the Dimorphotheca has few rivals as a decorative subject for the conservatory.
It is more effective to grow three or four plants in a pot than one only, and the best specimens
are obtained by sowing direct into the pots and thinning the seedlings to the required number.
Use a light rich compost containing a fair proportion of silver sand, and do not let the plants
suffer for the lack of water.

==ESCHSCHOLTZIA==

==Hardy perennial==

A decade or so ago the predominant colours found in Eschscholtzias were yellow and orange,
but in recent years a number of new and very attractive shades have been introduced, with the
result that this plant is now regarded as indispensable for summer bedding and for borders.
The modern practice is to grow Eschscholtzias as annuals, sowing in the open during March and
April. As the seedlings do not readily transplant, the seed should be put in where the flowers
are wanted. Thin out in due course, allowing each plant ample space for development. Sowings
may also be made during September, from which the plants will bloom in advance of those raised
in spring.

==FREESIA==

==Half-hardy perennial==

The Freesia is another of the bulbous flowers easily raised from seed, and it may be had in
bloom within six months from date of sowing. Use a rich compost, and sow under glass in January,
February, or March, as may best suit convenience. Seed should be sown again in August, to supply
flowers in spring or summer of the following year. The brittleness of the roots makes re-potting
a hazardous operation. It is therefore wise to sow in 48-pots and thin to four or five plants
in each, thus avoiding the need for shifting until after flowering has taken place. When re-potting
becomes imperative, it must be done with a gentle hand, and the bulbs ought to be carefully
matched for each pot. The position chosen for Freesias should be light and freely ventilated
in mild weather, but they will not endure a cutting draught. For further cultural notes see
page 328.

==FUCHSIA==

==Half-hardy perennial==

To raise Fuchsias from seed will be new practice to many; but it is both interesting and inexpensive,
and every year it secures an increasing number of adherents. Seed may be sown at almost any
time of the year; if a start be made in January or February, the plants will bloom in July
or August. Soil for the seed-pots should be somewhat firm in texture, but a light rich compost
ought to be employed when the plants come to be potted off, and the final shift should be into
a mixture containing nearly one-third of decayed cow-manure. For the early sowing we have named,
a rather strong heat will be necessary to bring up the seed. When large enough to handle, prick
off the seedlings round the edges of 60-pots, putting about six plants into each pot. Shade
and moisture are requisite to give them a start after each transfer. Subsequently they must
be potted on as growth demands, until the final size is reached; and flowering will not commence
so long as increased pot-room is given. The growth must not be hurried, and the plants should
at all times be kept free from vermin. Seedlings having narrow pointed leaves may be consigned
to the waste heap without scruple; but plants with short rounded foliage, especially if dark
in colour, are almost certain to prove of high quality.

==GAILLARDIA==

==Half-hardy perennial==

All the Gaillardias are most conveniently grown as annuals from seed. The plants remain in
bloom for a long period, and for their gorgeous colouring the flowers are as highly prized
for arranging in bowls and vases as for garden decoration. The best month in which to sow seed
is March, and the plants will then be ready for putting out in May. Any good compost will answer,
and only a moderate temperature is necessary to bring up the seedlings. The usual course of
procedure in pricking off must be adopted to keep them short and stout.

==GERANIUM==

==Pelargonium. Half-hardy perennial==

Geraniums of all kinds are most valuable if treated as annuals. In their seedling state the
plants are peculiarly robust and charmingly fresh in leafage and flowers, even if amongst them
there does not happen to be one that is welcome as a novel florist's flower. When grown from
first-class seed, however, a large proportion of fine varieties and a few real novelties may
be expected. The seed may be sown on any day throughout the year, but February and August are
especially suitable. Sow in pans filled with a good mixture, in a somewhat rough state. Cover
with a fair sixteenth of an inch of fine soil. Put the seed-pans in a temperature of 60° to
70° if sown in February, but heat will not be necessary at all unless it is desired to bring
the plants into flower early in the ensuing summer. We are accustomed to place the seed-pans
on a sunny shelf in a cool greenhouse, and have fine plants by the end of June, many of which
begin to flower in August.

==GERBERA==

==Half-hardy perennial==

The Gerbera, also known as the Barberton or Transvaal Daisy, is a native of South Africa. Under
cool greenhouse treatment it may be grown to perfection in pots, and a charming display of
bloom can also be obtained in the open border from plants put out in a well-drained sunny position
and given slight protection in winter. The flowers somewhat resemble a Marguerite in form,
having a number of long pointed petals radiating from a small centre. In addition to the brilliant
=G. Jamesonii=, sometimes called the Scarlet Daisy of the Cape, many hybrid flowers having
a wide range of delightful colours are also available. Although seed is often sown in spring,
the best results are probably obtained from an August sowing, in pans placed in a gentle heat.
Prick off the seedlings when large enough, and if required for the greenhouse or conservatory
transfer to pots, or gradually harden off for planting in the open as soon as weather permits
in the following spring.

==GESNERA==

==Nægelia. Tender perennial==

An extremely beautiful ornament for stove or conservatory. The new hybrids freely produce spikes
of bright pendulous flowers of many charming colours. Although the Gesnera is a perennial,
it is sound practice to treat the plant as an annual. Seedlings from a January sowing will
commence flowering in about nine months. Very rich soil, a warm and even temperature, and plenty
of water, are requisite to promote luxuriant growth. The culture advised for Gloxinias will
exactly suit the Gesnera also.

==GEUM==

==Hardy perennial==

The introduction of the well-known double variety, Mrs. Bradshaw, which may easily be flowered
from seed in the first season, has brought the Geum into prominence in recent years. Seed of
the above-named variety should be sown in pans in March or April and the seedlings pricked
off into boxes of rich soil when large enough. Put out in May or June and do not let the plants
suffer for want of water. Geums may also be raised from sowings made in June or July, and transplanting
in due course to permanent quarters, in the manner usual with hardy perennials.

==GLADIOLUS==

==Corn Flag. Half-hardy perennial==

