I took Clarence into my confidence, to a certain degree, and we went to work privately.  I
told him that this was a sort of miracle that required a trifle of preparation, and that it
would be sudden death to ever talk about these preparations to anybody.  That made his mouth
safe enough.  Clandestinely we made a few bushels of first-rate blasting powder, and I superintended
my armorers while they constructed a lightning-rod and some wires.  This old stone tower was
very massive--and rather ruinous, too, for it was Roman, and four hundred years old.  Yes,
and handsome, after a rude fashion, and clothed with ivy from base to summit, as with a shirt
of scale mail.  It stood on a lonely eminence, in good view from the castle, and about half
a mile away.

Working by night, we stowed the powder in the tower--dug stones out, on the inside, and buried
the powder in the walls themselves, which were fifteen feet thick at the base.  We put in a
peck at a time, in a dozen places.  We could have blown up the Tower of London with these charges.
When the thirteenth night was come we put up our lightning-rod, bedded it in one of the batches
of powder, and ran wires from it to the other batches.  Everybody had shunned that locality
from the day of my proclamation, but on the morning of the fourteenth I thought best to warn
the people, through the heralds, to keep clear away--a quarter of a mile away. Then added,
by command, that at some time during the twenty-four hours I would consummate the miracle,
but would first give a brief notice; by flags on the castle towers if in the daytime, by torch-baskets
in the same places if at night.

Thunder-showers had been tolerably frequent of late, and I was not much afraid of a failure;
still, I shouldn't have cared for a delay of a day or two; I should have explained that I was
busy with affairs of state yet, and the people must wait.

Of course, we had a blazing sunny day--almost the first one without a cloud for three weeks;
things always happen so.  I kept secluded, and watched the weather.  Clarence dropped in from
time to time and said the public excitement was growing and growing all the time, and the whole
country filling up with human masses as far as one could see from the battlements.  At last
the wind sprang up and a cloud appeared--in the right quarter, too, and just at nightfall.
For a little while I watched that distant cloud spread and blacken, then I judged it was time
for me to appear.  I ordered the torch-baskets to be lit, and Merlin liberated and sent to
me. A quarter of an hour later I ascended the parapet and there found the king and the court
assembled and gazing off in the darkness toward Merlin's Tower.  Already the darkness was so
heavy that one could not see far; these people and the old turrets, being partly in deep shadow
and partly in the red glow from the great torch-baskets overhead, made a good deal of a picture.

Merlin arrived in a gloomy mood.  I said:

"You wanted to burn me alive when I had not done you any harm, and latterly you have been trying
to injure my professional reputation.  Therefore I am going to call down fire and blow up your
tower, but it is only fair to give you a chance; now if you think you can break my enchantments
and ward off the fires, step to the bat, it's your innings."

"I can, fair sir, and I will. Doubt it not."

He drew an imaginary circle on the stones of the roof, and burnt a pinch of powder in it, which
sent up a small cloud of aromatic smoke, whereat everybody fell back and began to cross themselves
and get uncomfortable.  Then he began to mutter and make passes in the air with his hands.
He worked himself up slowly and gradually into a sort of frenzy, and got to thrashing around
with his arms like the sails of a windmill.  By this time the storm had about reached us; the
gusts of wind were flaring the torches and making the shadows swash about, the first heavy
drops of rain were falling, the world abroad was black as pitch, the lightning began to wink
fitfully.  Of course, my rod would be loading itself now.  In fact, things were imminent. So
I said:

"You have had time enough.  I have given you every advantage, and not interfered.  It is plain
your magic is weak. It is only fair that I begin now."

I made about three passes in the air, and then there was an awful crash and that old tower
leaped into the sky in chunks, along with a vast volcanic fountain of fire that turned night
to noonday, and showed a thousand acres of human beings groveling on the ground in a general
collapse of consternation.  Well, it rained mortar and masonry the rest of the week.  This
was the report; but probably the facts would have modified it.

It was an effective miracle.  The great bothersome temporary population vanished.  There were
a good many thousand tracks in the mud the next morning, but they were all outward bound. If
I had advertised another miracle I couldn't have raised an audience with a sheriff.

Merlin's stock was flat.  The king wanted to stop his wages; he even wanted to banish him,
but I interfered.  I said he would be useful to work the weather, and attend to small matters
like that, and I would give him a lift now and then when his poor little parlor-magic soured
on him.  There wasn't a rag of his tower left, but I had the government rebuild it for him,
and advised him to take boarders; but he was too high-toned for that.  And as for being grateful,
he never even said thank you.  He was a rather hard lot, take him how you might; but then you
couldn't fairly expect a man to be sweet that had been set back so.

CHAPTER VIII

THE BOSS

To be vested with enormous authority is a fine thing; but to have the on-looking world consent
to it is a finer.  The tower episode solidified my power, and made it impregnable.  If any
were perchance disposed to be jealous and critical before that, they experienced a change of
heart, now.  There was not any one in the kingdom who would have considered it good judgment
to meddle with my matters.

I was fast getting adjusted to my situation and circumstances. For a time, I used to wake up,
mornings, and smile at my "dream," and listen for the Colt's factory whistle; but that sort
of thing played itself out, gradually, and at last I was fully able to realize that I was actually
living in the sixth century, and in Arthur's court, not a lunatic asylum.  After that, I was
just as much at home in that century as I could have been in any other; and as for preference,
I wouldn't have traded it for the twentieth. Look at the opportunities here for a man of knowledge,
brains, pluck, and enterprise to sail in and grow up with the country. The grandest field that
ever was; and all my own; not a competitor; not a man who wasn't a baby to me in acquirements
and capacities; whereas, what would I amount to in the twentieth century?  I should be foreman
of a factory, that is about all; and could drag a seine down street any day and catch a hundred
better men than myself.

What a jump I had made!  I couldn't keep from thinking about it, and contemplating it, just
as one does who has struck oil.  There was nothing back of me that could approach it, unless
it might be Joseph's case; and Joseph's only approached it, it didn't equal it, quite.  For
it stands to reason that as Joseph's splendid financial ingenuities advantaged nobody but the
king, the general public must have regarded him with a good deal of disfavor, whereas I had
done my entire public a kindness in sparing the sun, and was popular by reason of it.

I was no shadow of a king; I was the substance; the king himself was the shadow.  My power
was colossal; and it was not a mere name, as such things have generally been, it was the genuine
article.  I stood here, at the very spring and source of the second great period of the world's
history; and could see the trickling stream of that history gather and deepen and broaden,
and roll its mighty tides down the far centuries; and I could note the upspringing of adventurers
like myself in the shelter of its long array of thrones: De Montforts, Gavestons, Mortimers,
Villierses; the war-making, campaign-directing wantons of France, and Charles the Second's
scepter-wielding drabs; but nowhere in the procession was my full-sized fellow visible.  I
was a Unique; and glad to know that that fact could not be dislodged or challenged for thirteen
centuries and a half, for sure.  Yes, in power I was equal to the king.  At the same time there
was another power that was a trifle stronger than both of us put together.  That was the Church.
I do not wish to disguise that fact.  I couldn't, if I wanted to. But never mind about that,
now; it will show up, in its proper place, later on.  It didn't cause me any trouble in the
beginning --at least any of consequence.

Well, it was a curious country, and full of interest.  And the people!  They were the quaintest
and simplest and trustingest race; why, they were nothing but rabbits.  It was pitiful for
a person born in a wholesome free atmosphere to listen to their humble and hearty outpourings
of loyalty toward their king and Church and nobility; as if they had any more occasion to love
and honor king and Church and noble than a slave has to love and honor the lash, or a dog has
to love and honor the stranger that kicks him! Why, dear me, any kind of royalty, howsoever
modified, any kind of aristocracy, howsoever pruned, is rightly an insult; but if you are born
and brought up under that sort of arrangement you probably never find it out for yourself,
and don't believe it when somebody else tells you.  It is enough to make a body ashamed of
his race to think of the sort of froth that has always occupied its thrones without shadow
of right or reason, and the seventh-rate people that have always figured as its aristocracies--a
company of monarchs and nobles who, as a rule, would have achieved only poverty and obscurity
if left, like their betters, to their own exertions.

The most of King Arthur's British nation were slaves, pure and simple, and bore that name,
and wore the iron collar on their necks; and the rest were slaves in fact, but without the
name; they imagined themselves men and freemen, and called themselves so.  The truth was, the
nation as a body was in the world for one object, and one only: to grovel before king and Church
and noble; to slave for them, sweat blood for them, starve that they might be fed, work that
they might play, drink misery to the dregs that they might be happy, go naked that they might
wear silks and jewels, pay taxes that they might be spared from paying them, be familiar all
their lives with the degrading language and postures of adulation that they might walk in pride
and think themselves the gods of this world.  And for all this, the thanks they got were cuffs
and contempt; and so poor-spirited were they that they took even this sort of attention as
an honor.

Inherited ideas are a curious thing, and interesting to observe and examine.  I had mine, the
king and his people had theirs. In both cases they flowed in ruts worn deep by time and habit,
and the man who should have proposed to divert them by reason and argument would have had a
long contract on his hands.  For instance, those people had inherited the idea that all men
without title and a long pedigree, whether they had great natural gifts and acquirements or
hadn't, were creatures of no more consideration than so many animals, bugs, insects; whereas
I had inherited the idea that human daws who can consent to masquerade in the peacock-shams
of inherited dignities and unearned titles, are of no good but to be laughed at.  The way I
was looked upon was odd, but it was natural.  You know how the keeper and the public regard
the elephant in the menagerie: well, that is the idea.  They are full of admiration of his
vast bulk and his prodigious strength; they speak with pride of the fact that he can do a hundred
marvels which are far and away beyond their own powers; and they speak with the same pride
of the fact that in his wrath he is able to drive a thousand men before him.  But does that
make him one of them?  No; the raggedest tramp in the pit would smile at the idea.  He couldn't
comprehend it; couldn't take it in; couldn't in any remote way conceive of it.  Well, to the
king, the nobles, and all the nation, down to the very slaves and tramps, I was just that kind
of an elephant, and nothing more.  I was admired, also feared; but it was as an animal is admired
and feared. The animal is not reverenced, neither was I; I was not even respected.  I had no
pedigree, no inherited title; so in the king's and nobles' eyes I was mere dirt; the people
regarded me with wonder and awe, but there was no reverence mixed with it; through the force
of inherited ideas they were not able to conceive of anything being entitled to that except
pedigree and lordship. There you see the hand of that awful power, the Roman Catholic Church.
In two or three little centuries it had converted a nation of men to a nation of worms.  Before
the day of the Church's supremacy in the world, men were men, and held their heads up, and
had a man's pride and spirit and independence; and what of greatness and position a person
got, he got mainly by achievement, not by birth.  But then the Church came to the front, with
an axe to grind; and she was wise, subtle, and knew more than one way to skin a cat--or a nation;
she invented "divine right of kings," and propped it all around, brick by brick, with the Beatitudes
--wrenching them from their good purpose to make them fortify an evil one; she preached (to
the commoner) humility, obedience to superiors, the beauty of self-sacrifice; she preached
(to the commoner) meekness under insult; preached (still to the commoner, always to the commoner)
patience, meanness of spirit, non-resistance under oppression; and she introduced heritable
ranks and aristocracies, and taught all the Christian populations of the earth to bow down
to them and worship them.  Even down to my birth-century that poison was still in the blood
of Christendom, and the best of English commoners was still content to see his inferiors impudently
continuing to hold a number of positions, such as lordships and the throne, to which the grotesque
laws of his country did not allow him to aspire; in fact, he was not merely contented with
this strange condition of things, he was even able to persuade himself that he was proud of
it.  It seems to show that there isn't anything you can't stand, if you are only born and bred
to it. Of course that taint, that reverence for rank and title, had been in our American blood,
too--I know that; but when I left America it had disappeared--at least to all intents and purposes.
The remnant of it was restricted to the dudes and dudesses.  When a disease has worked its
way down to that level, it may fairly be said to be out of the system.

But to return to my anomalous position in King Arthur's kingdom. Here I was, a giant among
pigmies, a man among children, a master intelligence among intellectual moles: by all rational
measurement the one and only actually great man in that whole British world; and yet there
and then, just as in the remote England of my birth-time, the sheep-witted earl who could claim
long descent from a king's leman, acquired at second-hand from the slums of London, was a better
man than I was.  Such a personage was fawned upon in Arthur's realm and reverently looked up
to by everybody, even though his dispositions were as mean as his intelligence, and his morals
as base as his lineage.  There were times when he could sit down in the king's presence, but
I couldn't.  I could have got a title easily enough, and that would have raised me a large
step in everybody's eyes; even in the king's, the giver of it.  But I didn't ask for it; and
I declined it when it was offered.  I couldn't have enjoyed such a thing with my notions; and
it wouldn't have been fair, anyway, because as far back as I could go, our tribe had always
been short of the bar sinister. I couldn't have felt really and satisfactorily fine and proud
and set-up over any title except one that should come from the nation itself, the only legitimate
source; and such an one I hoped to win; and in the course of years of honest and honorable
endeavor, I did win it and did wear it with a high and clean pride.  This title fell casually
from the lips of a blacksmith, one day, in a village, was caught up as a happy thought and
tossed from mouth to mouth with a laugh and an affirmative vote; in ten days it had swept the
kingdom, and was become as familiar as the king's name.  I was never known by any other designation
afterward, whether in the nation's talk or in grave debate upon matters of state at the council-board
of the sovereign.  This title, translated into modern speech, would be THE BOSS.  Elected by
the nation.  That suited me. And it was a pretty high title.  There were very few THE'S, and
I was one of them.  If you spoke of the duke, or the earl, or the bishop, how could anybody
tell which one you meant?  But if you spoke of The King or The Queen or The Boss, it was different.

Well, I liked the king, and as king I respected him--respected the office; at least respected
it as much as I was capable of respecting any unearned supremacy; but as MEN I looked down
upon him and his nobles--privately.  And he and they liked me, and respected my office; but
as an animal, without birth or sham title, they looked down upon me--and were not particularly
private about it, either.  I didn't charge for my opinion about them, and they didn't charge
for their opinion about me: the account was square, the books balanced, everybody was satisfied.

CHAPTER IX

THE TOURNAMENT

They were always having grand tournaments there at Camelot; and very stirring and picturesque
and ridiculous human bull-fights they were, too, but just a little wearisome to the practical
mind. However, I was generally on hand--for two reasons: a man must not hold himself aloof
from the things which his friends and his community have at heart if he would be liked--especially
as a statesman; and both as business man and statesman I wanted to study the tournament and
see if I couldn't invent an improvement on it.  That reminds me to remark, in passing, that
the very first official thing I did, in my administration--and it was on the very first day
of it, too--was to start a patent office; for I knew that a country without a patent office
and good patent laws was just a crab, and couldn't travel any way but sideways or backways.

Things ran along, a tournament nearly every week; and now and then the boys used to want me
to take a hand--I mean Sir Launcelot and the rest--but I said I would by and by; no hurry yet,
and too much government machinery to oil up and set to rights and start a-going.

We had one tournament which was continued from day to day during more than a week, and as many
as five hundred knights took part in it, from first to last.  They were weeks gathering.  They
came on horseback from everywhere; from the very ends of the country, and even from beyond
the sea; and many brought ladies, and all brought squires and troops of servants.  It was a
most gaudy and gorgeous crowd, as to costumery, and very characteristic of the country and
the time, in the way of high animal spirits, innocent indecencies of language, and happy-hearted
indifference to morals. It was fight or look on, all day and every day; and sing, gamble, dance,
carouse half the night every night.  They had a most noble good time.  You never saw such people.
Those banks of beautiful ladies, shining in their barbaric splendors, would see a knight sprawl
from his horse in the lists with a lanceshaft the thickness of your ankle clean through him
and the blood spouting, and instead of fainting they would clap their hands and crowd each
other for a better view; only sometimes one would dive into her handkerchief, and look ostentatiously
broken-hearted, and then you could lay two to one that there was a scandal there somewhere
and she was afraid the public hadn't found it out.

The noise at night would have been annoying to me ordinarily, but I didn't mind it in the present
circumstances, because it kept me from hearing the quacks detaching legs and arms from the
day's cripples.  They ruined an uncommon good old cross-cut saw for me, and broke the saw-buck,
too, but I let it pass.  And as for my axe--well, I made up my mind that the next time I lent
an axe to a surgeon I would pick my century.

I not only watched this tournament from day to day, but detailed an intelligent priest from
my Department of Public Morals and Agriculture, and ordered him to report it; for it was my
purpose by and by, when I should have gotten the people along far enough, to start a newspaper.
The first thing you want in a new country, is a patent office; then work up your school system;
and after that, out with your paper.  A newspaper has its faults, and plenty of them, but no
matter, it's hark from the tomb for a dead nation, and don't you forget it.  You can't resurrect
a dead nation without it; there isn't any way.  So I wanted to sample things, and be finding
out what sort of reporter-material I might be able to rake together out of the sixth century
when I should come to need it.

Well, the priest did very well, considering.  He got in all the details, and that is a good
thing in a local item: you see, he had kept books for the undertaker-department of his church
when he was younger, and there, you know, the money's in the details; the more details, the
more swag: bearers, mutes, candles, prayers --everything counts; and if the bereaved don't
buy prayers enough you mark up your candles with a forked pencil, and your bill shows up all
right.  And he had a good knack at getting in the complimentary thing here and there about
a knight that was likely to advertise--no, I mean a knight that had influence; and he also
had a neat gift of exaggeration, for in his time he had kept door for a pious hermit who lived
in a sty and worked miracles.

Of course this novice's report lacked whoop and crash and lurid
description, and therefore wanted the true ring; but its antique
wording was quaint and sweet and simple, and full of the fragrances
and flavors of the time, and these little merits made up in a measure
for its more important lacks.
  Then Sir Bleobaris brake his spear upon Sir Gareth,
  but of that stroke Sir Bleobaris fell to the earth.

There was an unpleasant little episode that day, which for reasons of state I struck out of
my priest's report.  You will have noticed that Garry was doing some great fighting in the
engagement.  When I say Garry I mean Sir Gareth.  Garry was my private pet name for him; it
suggests that I had a deep affection for him, and that was the case.  But it was a private
pet name only, and never spoken aloud to any one, much less to him; being a noble, he would
not have endured a familiarity like that from me.  Well, to proceed: I sat in the private box
set apart for me as the king's minister. While Sir Dinadan was waiting for his turn to enter
the lists, he came in there and sat down and began to talk; for he was always making up to
me, because I was a stranger and he liked to have a fresh market for his jokes, the most of
them having reached that stage of wear where the teller has to do the laughing himself while
the other person looks sick.  I had always responded to his efforts as well as I could, and
felt a very deep and real kindness for him, too, for the reason that if by malice of fate he
knew the one particular anecdote which I had heard oftenest and had most hated and most loathed
all my life, he had at least spared it me.  It was one which I had heard attributed to every
humorous person who had ever stood on American soil, from Columbus down to Artemus Ward. It
was about a humorous lecturer who flooded an ignorant audience with the killingest jokes for
an hour and never got a laugh; and then when he was leaving, some gray simpletons wrung him
gratefully by the hand and said it had been the funniest thing they had ever heard, and "it
was all they could do to keep from laughin' right out in meetin'."  That anecdote never saw
the day that it was worth the telling; and yet I had sat under the telling of it hundreds and
thousands and millions and billions of times, and cried and cursed all the way through.  Then
who can hope to know what my feelings were, to hear this armor-plated ass start in on it again,
in the murky twilight of tradition, before the dawn of history, while even Lactantius might
be referred to as "the late Lactantius," and the Crusades wouldn't be born for five hundred
years yet?  Just as he finished, the call-boy came; so, haw-hawing like a demon, he went rattling
and clanking out like a crate of loose castings, and I knew nothing more.  It was some minutes
before I came to, and then I opened my eyes just in time to see Sir Gareth fetch him an awful
welt, and I unconsciously out with the prayer, "I hope to gracious he's killed!"  But by ill-luck,
before I had got half through with the words, Sir Gareth crashed into Sir Sagramor le Desirous
and sent him thundering over his horse's crupper, and Sir Sagramor caught my remark and thought
I meant it for him.

Well, whenever one of those people got a thing into his head, there was no getting it out again.
I knew that, so I saved my breath, and offered no explanations.  As soon as Sir Sagramor got
well, he notified me that there was a little account to settle between us, and he named a day
three or four years in the future; place of settlement, the lists where the offense had been
given. I said I would be ready when he got back.  You see, he was going for the Holy Grail.
The boys all took a flier at the Holy Grail now and then.  It was a several years' cruise.
They always put in the long absence snooping around, in the most conscientious way, though
none of them had any idea where the Holy Grail really was, and I don't think any of them actually
expected to find it, or would have known what to do with it if he had run across it. You see,
it was just the Northwest Passage of that day, as you may say; that was all.  Every year expeditions
went out holy grailing, and next year relief expeditions went out to hunt for them.  There
was worlds of reputation in it, but no money.  Why, they actually wanted me to put in!  Well,
I should smile.

CHAPTER X

BEGINNINGS OF CIVILIZATION

