Roof and Meadow

By Dallas Lore Sharp

Author of "A Watcher in the Woods"

With Illustrations By Bruce Horsfall

SCHOOL EDITION

NEW YORK

The Century Co.

1911

Copyright, 1903, 1904, by THE CENTURY CO.

Copyright, 1902, 1903, by HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN AND COMPANY.

Copyright, 1903, by THE CHAPPLE PUBLISHING CO. (Ltd.).

Copyright, 1902, 1903, by W.W. POTTER CO. (Ltd.).

Copyright, 1902, 1903, by PERRY MASON COMPANY

Published April, 1904.

TO

MY MOTHER

CONTENTS

                              PAGE

BIRDS FROM A CITY ROOF           1 THE HUNTING OF THE WOODCHUCK    19 THREE SERMONS       
31 THE MARSH                       45 CALICO AND THE KITTENS          77 THE SPARROW ROOST
91 "MUX"                          107 RACOON CREEK                   121 THE DRAGON OF THE
SWALE        147

BIRDS FROM A CITY ROOF

ROOF AND MEADOW

BIRDS FROM A CITY ROOF

I laid down my book and listened. It was only the choking gurgle of a broken rain-pipe outside:
then it was the ripple and swish of a meadow stream. To make out the voices of redwings and
marsh-wrens in the rasping notes of the city sparrows behind the shutter required much more
imagination. But I did it. I wanted to hear, and the splash of the water helped me.

The sounds of wind and water are the same everywhere. Here at the heart of the city I can forget
the tarry pebbles and painted tin whenever my rain-pipes are flooded. I can never be wholly
shut away from the open country and the trees so long as the winds draw hard down the alley
past my window.

But I have more than a window and a broken rain-pipe. Along with my five flights goes a piece
of roof, flat, with a wooden floor, a fence, and a million acres of sky. I couldn't possibly
use another acre of sky, except along the eastern horizon, where the top floors of some twelve-story
buildings intercept the dawn.

With such a roof and such a sky, when I must, I can, with effort, get well out of the city.
I have never fished nor botanized here, but I have been a-birding many times.

    Stone walls do not a prison make,

nor city streets a cage--if one have a roof.

A roof is not an ideal spot for bird study. I would hardly, out of preference, have chosen
this with its soot and its battlement of gaseous chimney-pots, even though it is a university
roof with the great gilded dome of a state house shining down upon it. One whose feet have
always been in the soil does not take kindly to tar and tin. But anything open to the sky is
open to some of the birds, for the paths of many of the migrants lie close along the clouds.

Other birds than the passing migrants, however, sometimes come within range of my look-out.
The year around there are English sparrows and pigeons; and all through the summer scarcely
an evening passes when a few chimney-swallows are not in sight.

With the infinite number and variety of chimneys hedging me in, I naturally expected to find
the sky alive with swallows. Indeed, I thought that some of the twenty-six pots at the corners
of my roof would be inhabited by the birds. Not so. While I can nearly always find a pair of
swallows in the air, they are surprisingly scarce, and, so far as I know, they rarely build
in the heart of the city. There are more canaries in my block than chimney-swallows in all my sky.

The swallows are not urban birds. The gas, the smoke, the shrieking ventilators, and the ceaseless
sullen roar of the city are hardly to their liking. Perhaps the flies and gnats which they
feed upon cannot live in the air above the roofs. The swallows want a sleepy old town with
big thunderful chimneys, where there are wide fields and a patch of quiet water.

Much more numerous than the swallows are the night-hawks. My roof, in fact, is the best place
I have ever found to study their feeding habits. These that flit through my smoky dusk may
not make city nests, though the finding of such nests would not surprise me. Of course a night-hawk's
nest, here or anywhere else, would surprise me; for like her cousin, the whippoorwill, she
never builds a nest, but stops in the grass, the gravel, the leaves, or on a bare rock, deposits
her eggs without even scratching aside the sticks and stones that may share the bed, and in
three days is brooding them--brooding the stones too.

It is likely that some of my hawks nest on the buildings in the neighborhood. Night-hawks'
eggs have occasionally been found among the pebbles of city roofs. The high, flat house-tops
are so quiet and remote, so far away from the noisy life in the narrow streets below, that
the birds make their nests here as if in a world apart. The twelve-and fifteen-story buildings
are as so many deserted mountain heads to them.

None of the birds build on my roof, however. But from early spring they haunt the region so
constantly that their families, if they have families at all, must be somewhere in the vicinity.
Should I see them like this about a field or thicket in the country it would certainly mean a nest.

The sparrows themselves do not seem more at home here than do these night-hawks. One evening,
after a sultry July day, a wild wind-storm burst over the city. The sun was low, glaring through
a narrow rift between the hill-crests and the clouds that spread green and heavy across the
sky. I could see the lower fringes of the clouds working and writhing in the wind, but not
a sound or a breath was in the air about me. Around me over my roof flew the night-hawks. They
were crying peevishly and skimming close to the chimneys, not rising, as usual, to any height.

Suddenly the storm broke. The rain fell as if something had given way overhead. The wind tore
across the stubble of roofs and spires; and through the wind, the rain, and the rolling clouds
shot a weird, yellow-green sunlight.

I had never seen a storm like it. Nor had the night-hawks. They seemed to be terrified, and
left the sky immediately. One of them, alighting on the roof across the street, and creeping
into the lee of a chimney, huddled there in sight of me until the wind was spent and a natural
sunlight flooded the world of roofs and domes and spires.

Then they were all awing once more, hawking for supper. Along with the hawking they got in
a great deal of play, doing their tumbling and cloud-coasting over the roofs just as they do
above the fields.

Mounting by easy stages of half a dozen rapid strokes, catching flies by the way, and crying
peent-peent, the acrobat climbs until I look a mere lump on the roof; then ceasing his whimpering
peent, he turns on bowed wings and falls--shoots roofward with fearful speed. The chimneys! Quick!

Quick he is. Just short of the roofs the taut wings flash a reverse, there is a lightning swoop,
a startling hollow wind-sound, and the rushing bird is beating skyward again, hawking deliberately
as before, and uttering again his peevish nasal cry.

This single note, the only call he has besides a few squeaks, is far from a song; farther still
is the empty-barrel-bung-hole sound made by the air in the rushing wings as the bird swoops
in his fall. The night-hawk, alias "bull-bat," does not sing. What a name bull-bat would be
for a singing bird! But a "voice" was never intended for the creature. Voice, beak, legs, head--everything
but wings and maw was sacrificed for a mouth. What a mouth! The bird can almost swallow himself.
Such a cleft in the head could never mean a song; it could never be utilized for anything but
a fly-trap.

We have use for fly-traps. We need some birds just to sit around, look pretty, and warble.
We will pay them for it in cherries or in whatever they ask. But there is also a great need
for birds that kill insects. And first among these are the night-hawks. They seem to have been
designed for this sole purpose. Their end is to kill insects. They are more like machines than
any other birds I know. The enormous mouth feeds an enormous stomach, and this, like a fire-box,
makes the power that works the enormous wings. From a single maw have been taken eighteen hundred
winged ants, to say nothing of the smaller fry that could not be identified and counted.

But if he never caught an ant, never one of the fifth-story mosquitos that live and bite till
Christmas, how greatly still my sky would need him! His flight is song enough. His cry and
eery thunder are the very voice of the summer twilight to me. And as I watch him coasting in
the evening dusk, that twilight often falls--over the roofs, as it used to fall for me over
the fields and the quiet hollow woods.

There is always an English sparrow on my roof--which does not particularly commend the roof
to bird-lovers, I know. I often wish the sparrow an entirely different bird, but I never wish
him entirely away from the roof. When there is no other defense for him, I fall back upon his
being a bird. Any kind of a bird in the city! Any but a parrot.

A pair of sparrows nest regularly in an eaves-trough, so close to the roof that I can overhear
their family talk. Round, loquacious, familiar Cock Sparrow is a family man--so entirely a
family man as to be nothing else at all. He is a success, too. It does me good to see him build.
He tore the old nest all away in the early winter, so as to be ready. There came a warm springish
day in February, and he began. A blizzard stopped him, but with the melting of the snow he
went to work again, completing the nest by the middle of March.

He built for a big family, and he had it. Not "it" indeed, but them; for there were three batches
of from six to ten youngsters each during the course of the season. He also did a father's
share of work with the children. I think he hated hatching them. He would settle upon the roof
above the nest, and chirp in a crabbed, imposed-upon tone until his wife came out. As she flew
briskly away, he would look disconsolately around at the bright busy world, ruffle his feathers,
scold to himself, and then crawl dutifully in upon the eggs.

I knew how he felt. It is not in a cock sparrow to enjoy hatching eggs. I respected him; for
though he grumbled, as any normal husband might, still he was "drinking fair" with Mrs. Sparrow.
He built and brooded and foraged for his family, if not as sweetly, yet as faithfully, as his
wife. He deserved his blessed abundance of children.

Is he songless, sooty, uninteresting, vulgar? Not if you live on a roof. He may be all of this,
a pest even, in the country. But upon my roof, for weeks at a stretch, his is the only bird
voice I hear. Throughout the spring, and far into the summer, I watch the domestic affairs
in the eaves-trough. During the winter, at nightfall, I see little bands and flurries of birds
scudding over and dropping behind the high buildings to the east. They are sparrows on the
way to their roost in the elms of an old mid-city burial-ground.

I not infrequently spy a hawk soaring calmly far away above the roof. Not only the small ones,
like the sharp-shinned, but also the larger, wilder species come, and winding up close to the
clouds, circle and circle there, trying apparently to see some meaning in the maze of moving,
intersecting lines of dots below yonder in the cracks of that smoking, rumbling blur.

In the spring, from the trees of the Common, which are close, but, except for the crown of
one noble English elm, are shut away from me, I hear an occasional robin and Baltimore oriole.
Very rarely a woodpecker will go over. The great northern shrike is a frequent winter visitor,
but by ill chance I have not been up when he has called at the roof.

One of these fiend birds haunts a small court only a block away, which is inclosed in a high
board fence, topped with nails. He likes the court because of these nails. They are sharp;
they will stick clean through the body of a sparrow. Sometimes the fiend has a dozen sparrows
run through with them, leaving the impaled bodies to flutter in the wind and finally fall away.

In sight from my roof are three tiny patches of the harbor; sometimes a fourth, when the big
red-funneled liner is gone from her slip. Down to the water of the harbor in flocks from the
north come other winter visitors, the herring and black-backed gulls. Often during the winter
I find them in my sky.

One day they will cross silently over the city in a long straggling line. Again they will fly
low, wheeling and screaming, their wild sea-voices shrill with the sound of storm. If it is
thick and gray overhead, the snow-white bodies of the herring-gulls toss in the wind above
the roofs like patches of foam. I hear the sea--the wind, the surf, the wild, fierce tumult
of the shore--whenever the white gulls sail screaming into my winter sky.

I have never lived under a wider reach of sky than that above my roof. It offers a clear, straight,
six-minute course to the swiftest wedge of wild geese. Spring and autumn the geese and ducks
go over, and their passage is the most thrilling event in all my bird calendar.

It is because the ducks fly high and silent that I see them so rarely. They are always a surprise.
You look, and there against the dull sky they move, strange dark forms that set your blood
leaping. But I never see a string of them winging over that I do not think of a huge thousand-legger
crawling the clouds.

My glimpses of the geese are largely chance, too. Several times, through the open window by
my table, I have heard the faint, far-off honking, and have hurried to the roof in time to
watch the travelers disappear. One spring day I was upon the roof when a large belated flock
came over, headed north. It was the 20th of April, and the morning had broken very warm. I
could see that the geese were hot and tired. They were barely clearing the church spires. On
they came, their wedge wide and straggling, until almost over me, when something happened.
The gander in the lead faltered and swerved, the wedge lines wavered, the flock rushed together
in confusion, wheeled, dropped, then broke apart, and honking wildly, turned back toward the bay.

It was instant and complete demoralization. A stronger gander, I think, could have led the
wedge unbroken over the city to some neighboring pond, where the weakest of the stragglers,
however, must have fallen from sheer exhaustion.

Scaling lower and lower across the roofs, the flock had reached the center of the city and
had driven suddenly into the roar and confusion of the streets. Weary from the heat, they were
dismayed at the noise, their leader faltered, and, at a stroke, the great flying wedge went
to pieces.

There is nothing in the life of birds quite so stirring to the imagination as their migration:
the sight of gathering swallows, the sudden appearance of strange warblers, the call of passing
plovers--all are suggestive of instincts, movements, and highways that are unseen, unaccountable,
and full of mystery.

The question, the mystery in that "certain flight" I never felt so vividly as from my roof.
Here I have often heard the reed-birds and the water-fowl passing. Sometimes I have heard them
going over in the dark. One night I remember particularly, the sky and the air were so clear
and the geese so high in the blue.

Over the fields and wide silent marshes such passing is strange enough. But here I stood above
a sleeping city of men, and far above me, so far that I could only hear them, holding their
northward way through the starlit sky, they passed--whither? and how guided? Was the shining
dome of the State House a beacon? Did they mark the light at Marblehead?

THE HUNTING OF THE WOODCHUCK

THE HUNTING OF THE WOODCHUCK

    ... the chylde may Rue that ys vn-born, it wos the mor pitte.

There was murder in my heart. The woodchuck knew it. He never had had a thought before, but
he had one now. It came hard and heavily, yet it arrived in time; and it was not a slow thought
for a woodchuck, either--just a trifle better, indeed, than my own.

This was the first time I had caught the woodchuck away from his hole. He had left his old
burrow in the huckleberry hillside, and dug a new hole under one of my young peach-trees. I
had made no objection to his huckleberry hole. He used to come down the hillside and waddle
into the orchard in broad day, free to do and go as he pleased; but not since he began to dig
under the peach-tree.

I discovered this new hole when it was only a foot deep, and promptly filled it with stones.
The next morning the stones were out and the cavity two feet deeper. I filled it up again,
driving a large squarish piece of rock into the mouth, tight, certainly stopping all further
work, as I thought.

There are woodchucks that you can discourage and there are those that you can't. Three days
later the piece of rock and the stones were piled about the butt of the tree and covered with
fresh earth, while the hole ran in out of sight, with the woodchuck, apparently, at the bottom
of it.

I had tried shutting him out, now I would try shutting him in. It was cruel--it would have
been to anything but a woodchuck; I was ashamed of myself for doing it, and went back the following
day, really hoping to find the burrow open.

Never again would I worry over an imprisoned woodchuck; but then I should never again try to
destroy a woodchuck by walling up his hole, any more than Br'er Fox would try to punish the
rabbit by slinging him a second time into the brier-patch.

The burrow was wide open. I had stuffed and rammed the rocks into it, and buried deep in its
mouth the body of another woodchuck that my neighbor's dog had killed. All was cleared away.
The deceased relative was gone--where and how I know not; the stones were scattered on the
farther side of the tree, and the passage neatly swept of all loose sand and pebbles.

Clearly the woodchuck had come to stay. I meant that he should move. I could get him into a
steel trap, for his wits are not abiding; they come only on occasion. Woodchuck lives too much
in the ground and too constantly beside his own door to grow very wise. He can always be trapped.
So can any one's enemy. You can always murder. But no gentleman strikes from behind. I hate
the steel trap. I have set my last one. They would be bitter peaches on that tree if they cost
the woodchuck what I have seen more than one woodchuck suffer in the horrible jaws of such a trap.

But is it not perfectly legitimate and gentlemanly to shoot such a woodchuck to save one's
peaches? Certainly. So I got the gun and waited--and waited--and waited. Did you ever wait
with a gun until a woodchuck came out of his hole? I never did. A woodchuck has just sense
enough to go into his hole--and stay in.

There were too many woodchucks about and my days were too precious for me to spend any considerable
part of my summer watching with a gun for this one. Besides, I have been known to fire and
miss a woodchuck, anyway.

So I gave up the gun. It was while thinking what I could do next that I came down the row of
young peach-trees and spied the woodchuck out in the orchard, fifty yards away from his hole.
He spied me at the same instant, and rose upon his haunches.

At last we were face to face. The time had come. It would be a fight to the finish; and a fair
fight, too, for all that I had about me in the way of weapons was a pair of heavy, knee-high
hunting-boots, that I had put on against the dew of the early morning. All my thought and energy,
all my hope, centered immediately in those boots.

The woodchuck kept his thoughts in his head. Into his heels he put what speed he had; and little
as that was, it counted, pieced out with the head-work.

Back in my college days I ran a two-mile race--the greatest race of the day, the judges said--and
just at the tape lost two gold medals and the glory of a new intercollegiate record because
I didn't use my head. Two of us out of twenty finished, and we finished together, the other
fellow twisting and falling forward, breaking the string with his side, while I, pace for pace
with him--didn't think.

For a moment the woodchuck and I stood motionless, he studying the situation. I was at the
very mouth of his burrow. It was coming to sure death for him to attempt to get in. Yet it
was sure death if he did not get in, for I should run him down.

Had you been that woodchuck, gentle reader, I wonder if you would have taken account of the
thick-strewn stones behind you, the dense tangle of dewberry-vines off on your left, the heavy
boots of your enemy and his unthinking rage?

I was vastly mistaken in that woodchuck. A blanker, flabbier face never looked into mine. Only
the sudden appearance of death could have brought the trace of intelligence across it that
I caught as the creature dropped on all fours and began to wabble straight away from me over
the area of rough, loose stones.

With a jump and a yell I was after him, making five yards to his one. He tumbled along the
best he could, and, to my great surprise, directly away from his hole. It was steep downhill.
I should land upon him in half a dozen bounds more.

On we went, reckless of the uneven ground, momentum increasing with every jump, until, accurately
calculating his speed and the changing distance between us, I rose with a mighty leap, sailed
into the air and came down--just an inch too far ahead--on a round stone, turned my ankle,
and went sprawling over the woodchuck in a heap.

The woodchuck spilled himself from under me, slid short about, and tumbled off for home by
way of the dewberry-patch.

He had made a good start before I was righted and again in motion. Now it was steep, very steep,
uphill--which did not seem to matter much to the woodchuck, but made a great difference to
me. Then, too, I had counted on a simple, straightaway dash, and had not saved myself for this
lap and climbing home-stretch.

Still I was gaining,--more slowly this time,--with chances yet good of overtaking him short
of the hole, when, in the thick of the dewberry-vines, I tripped, lunged forward three or four
stumbling strides, and saw the woodchuck turn sharp to the right in a bee-line for his burrow.

I wheeled, jumped, cut after him, caught him on the toe of my boot, and lifting him, plopped
him smoothly, softly into his hole.

It was gently done. And so beautifully! The whole feat had something of the poetic accuracy
of an astronomical calculation. And the perfectly lovely dive I helped him make home!

I sat down upon his mound of earth to get myself together and to enjoy it all. What a woodchuck!
Perhaps he never could do the trick again; but, then, he won't need to. All the murder was
gone from my heart. He had beaten the boots. He had beaten them so neatly, so absolutely, that
simple decency compelled me then and there to turn over that Crawford peach-tree, root and
stem, to the woodchuck, his heirs and assigns forever.

By way of celebration he has thrown out nearly a cart-load of sand from somewhere beneath the
tree, deepening and enlarging his home. My Swedish neighbor, viewing the hole recently, exclaimed:
"Dose vuudshuck, I t'ink him kill dem dree!" Perhaps so. As yet, however, the tree grows on
without a sign of hurt.

But suppose the tree does die? Well, there is no certainty of its bearing good fruit. There
was once a peddler of trees, a pious man and a Quaker, who made a mistake, selling the wrong
tree. Besides, there are other trees in the orchard; and, if necessary, I can buy peaches.

Yes, but what if other woodchucks should seek other roof-trees in the peach row? They won't.
There are no fashions, no such emulations, out-of-doors. Because one woodchuck moves from huckleberries
to a peach-tree is no sign that all the woodchucks on the hillside are going to forsake the
huckleberries with him. Only humans are silly enough for that.

If the woodchucks should come, all of them, it would be extremely interesting--an event worth
many peaches.

THREE SERMONS

THREE SERMONS

I

    Thou shalt not preach.

The woods were as empty as some great empty house; they were hollow and silent and somber.
I stood looking in among the leafless trees, heavy in spirit at the quiet and gloom, when close
by my side spoke a tiny voice. I started, so suddenly, so unexpectedly it broke into the wide
December silence, so far it echoed through the empty forest halls.

"What!" I exclaimed, turning in my tracks and addressing a small brown-leafed beech. "What!
little Hyla, are you still out? You! with a snow-storm brewing and St. Nick due here to-morrow
night?" And then from within the bush, or on it, or under it, or over it, came an answer, Peep,
peep, peep! small and shrill, dropping into the silence of the woods and stirring it as three
small pebbles might drop into the middle of a wide sleeping pond.

It was one of those gray, heavy days of the early winter--one of the vacant, spiritless days
of portent that wait hushed and numb before a coming storm. Not a crow, nor a jay, nor a chickadee
had heart enough to cheep. But little Hyla, the tree-frog, was nothing daunted. Since the last
week in February, throughout the spring and the noisy summer on till this dreary time, he had
been cheerfully, continuously piping. This was his last call.

Peep, peep, peep! he piped in February; Peep, peep, peep! in August; Peep, peep, peep! in December.
But did he?

"He did just that," replies the scientist, "and that only."

"Not at all," I answer.

"What authority have you?" he asks. "You are not scientific. You are merely a dreaming, fooling
hanger-on to the fields and woods; one of those who are forever hearing more than they hear,
and seeing more than they see. We scientists hear with our ears, see with our eyes, feel with
our fingers, and understand with our brains--"

"Just so, just so," I interrupt, "and you are a worthy but often a pretty stupid set. Little
Hyla in February, August, and December cries Peep, peep, peep! to you. But his cry to me in
February is Spring, spring, spring! And in December--it depends; for I cannot see with my eyes
alone, nor hear with my ears, nor feel with my fingers only. You can, and so could Peter Bell.
To-day I saw and heard and felt the world all gray and hushed and shrouded; and little Hyla,
speaking out of the silence and death, called Cheer, cheer, cheer!"

II

It is not because the gate is strait and the way narrow that so few get into the kingdom of
the Out-of-Doors. The gate is wide and the way is broad. The difficulty is that most persons
go in too fast.

If I were asked what virtue, above all others, one must possess in order to be shown the mysteries
of the kingdom of earth and sky, I should say, there are several; I should not know which to
name first. There are, however, two virtues very essential and very hard to acquire, namely,
the ability to keep quiet and to stand still.

Last summer a fox in two days took fifteen of my chickens. I saw the rascal in broad day come
down the hill to the chicken-yard. I greatly enjoy the sight of a wild fox; but fifteen chickens
a sight was too high a price. So I got the gun and chased about the woods half the summer for
another glimpse of the sinner's red hide. I saw him one Sunday as we were driving into the
wood road from church; but never a week-day sight for all my chasing.

Along in the early autumn I got home one evening shortly after sundown. I had left several
cocks of hay spread out in the little meadow, and though it was already pretty damp, I took
the fork, went down, and cocked it up.

Returning, I climbed by the narrow, winding path through the pines, out into the corner of
my pasture. It was a bright moonlight night, and leaning back upon the short-handled fork,
I stopped in the shadow of the pines to look out over the softly lighted field.

Off in the woods a mile away sounded the deep, mellow tones of two foxhounds. Day and night
all summer long I had heard them, and all summer long I had hurried to this knoll and to that
for a shot. But the fox always took the other knoll.

The echoing cries of the dogs through the silent woods were musical. Soon they sounded sharp
and clear--the hounds were crossing an open stretch leading down to the meadow behind me. As
I leaned, listening, I heard near by a low, uneasy murmuring from a covey of quails sleeping
in the brush beside the path, and before I had time to think what it meant, a fox trotted up
the path I had just climbed, and halted in the edge of the shadows directly at my feet.

I stood as stiff as a post. He sniffed at my dew-wet boots, backed away, and looked me over
curiously. I could have touched him with my fork. Then he sat down with just his silver-tipped
brush in the silver moonlight, to study me in earnest.

The loud baying of the hounds was coming nearer. How often I had heard it, and, in spite of
my lost chickens, how often I had exclaimed, "Poor little tired fox!" But here sat "poor little
tired fox" with his tongue in his head, calmly wondering what kind of stump he had run up against
this time.

I could only dimly see his eyes, but his whole body said: "I can't make it out, for it doesn't
move. But so long as it doesn't move I sha'n't be scared." Then he trotted to this side and
to that for a better wind, somewhat afraid, but much more curious.

His time was up, however. The dogs were yelping across the meadow on his warm trail. Giving
me a last unsatisfied look, he dropped down the path, directly toward the dogs, and sprang
lightly off into the thicket.

The din of their own voices must have deafened the dogs, or they would have heard him. Round
and round they circled, giving the fox ample time for the study of another "stump" before they
discovered that he had doubled down the path, and still longer time before they crossed the
wide scentless space of his side jump and once more fastened upon his trail.

III

Back in my knickerbocker days I once went off on a Sunday-school picnic, and soon, replete
with "copenhagen," I sauntered into the woods alone in quest of less cloying sport. I had not
gone far when I picked up a dainty little ribbon-snake, and having no bag or box along, I rolled
him up in my handkerchief, and journeyed on with the wiggling reptile safely caged on top of
my head under my tight-fitting hat.

After a time I began to feel a peculiar movement under the hat, not exactly the crawling of
a normal snake, but more like that of a snake with legs. Those were the days when all my soul
was bent on the discovery of a new species--of anything; when the whole of life meant a journey
to the Academy of Natural Sciences with something to be named. For just an instant flashed
the hope that I had found an uncursed snake, one of the original ones that went on legs. I
reached for the hat, bent over, and pulled it off, and, lo! not a walking snake. Just an ordinary
snake, but with it a live wood-frog!

This, at least, was interesting, the only real piece of magic I have ever done. Into my hat
had gone only a live snake, now I brought forth the snake and a live frog. This was a snake
to conjure with; so I tied him up again and finally got him home.

