This dreadful announcement, as one might expect, completely overcame the countess. She fainted,
but not till she had heard and comprehended Chilton's hurried injunctions to secrecy and silence.
He rang the bell for assistance, and then left the house. The mental agony of Lady Seyton on
recovering consciousness was terrible, and she with great difficulty succeeded in concealing
its cause from her anxious and wondering relatives. Another interview with Chilton appeared
to confirm the truth of his story beyond doubt or question. He produced a formally-drawn-up
document, signed by one Pierce Cunningham, grave-digger of Swords, which set forth that Charles
Gosford was buried on the 26th of June, 1832, and that the inscription on his tombstone set
forth that he had died June 23d of that year. Also a written averment of Patrick Mullins of
Dublin, that he had lettered the stone at the head of the grave of Charles Gosford in Swords
burying-ground in 1832, and that its date was, as stated by Pierce Cunningham, June 23, 1832.

"Have you copies of those documents?" asked Mr. Flint.

"Yes: I have brought them with me," the countess replied, and handed them to Mr. Flint. "In
my terror and extremity," continued her ladyship, "and unguided by counsel--for, till now I
have not dared to speak upon the subject to any person--I have given this Chilton, at various
times, large sums of money--but he is insatiable; and only yesterday--I cannot repeat his audacious
proposal--you will find it in this note."

"Marriage!" exclaimed Mr. Flint with a burst. He had read the note over my shoulder. "The scoundrel!"

My worthy partner was rather excited. The truth was he had a Clara of his own at home--a dead
sister's child--very pretty, just about marriageable, and a good deal resembling, as he told
me afterwards, our new and interesting client.

"I would die a thousand deaths rather," resumed Lady Seyton, in a low, tremulous voice, as
she let fall her veil. "Can there," she added in a still fainter voice, "be anything done--anything"--

"That depends entirely," interrupted Mr. Flint, "upon whether this fine story is or is not
a fabrication, got up for the purpose of extorting money. It seems to me, I must say, amazingly
like one."

"Do you really think so?" exclaimed the lady with joyful vehemence. The notion that Chilton
was perhaps imposing on her credulity and fears seemed not to have struck her before.

"What do you think, Sharp?" said my partner.

I hesitated to give an opinion, as I did not share in the hope entertained by Flint. Detection
was so certain, that I doubted if so cunning a person as Chilton appeared to be would have
ventured on a fraud so severely punishable. "Suppose," I said, avoiding an answer, "as this
note appoints an interview at three o'clock to-day at Seyton House, we meet him there instead
of your ladyship? A little talk with the fellow might be serviceable."

Lady Seyton eagerly agreed to this proposal; and it was arranged that we should be at Seyton
House half an hour before the appointed time, in readiness for the gentleman. Lady Seyton left
in a hackney-coach, somewhat relieved, I thought, by having confided the oppressive secret
to us, and with a nascent hope slightly flushing her pale, dejected countenance.

The firm of Flint and Sharp had then a long conference together, during which the lady's statement
and Mr. Chilton's documents were, the reader may be sure, very minutely conned over, analyzed,
and commented upon. Finally, it was resolved that, if the approaching interview, the manner
of which we agreed upon, did not prove satisfactory, Mr. Flint should immediately proceed to
Ireland, and personally ascertain the truth or falsehood of the facts alleged by Chilton.

"Mr. Chilton is announced," said Lady Seyton, hurriedly entering the library in Grosvenor Square,
where Mr. Flint and myself were seated. "I need not be present, I think you said?" she added,
in great tremor.

"Certainly not, madam," I replied. "We shall do better alone."

She retired instantly. Flint rose and stationed himself close by the door. Presently a sounding,
confident step was heard along the passage, the library door swung back on its noiseless hinges,
and in stalked a man of apparently about thirty-five years of age, tall, genteel, and soldier-looking.
He started back on seeing me, recognizing, I perceived, my vocation, at a glance.

"How is this?" he exclaimed. "I expected"--

"The Countess of Seyton. True; but her ladyship has deputed me to confer with you on the business
mentioned in your note."

"I shall have nothing to say to you," he replied abruptly, and turned to leave the room. Mr.
Flint had shut, and was standing with his back to the door.

"You can't go," he said, in his coolest manner. "The police are within call."

"The police! What the devil do you mean?" cried Chilton, angrily; but, spite of his assurance,
visibly trembling beneath Flint's searching, half-sneering look.

"Nothing very remarkable," replied that gentleman, "or unusual in our profession. Come, sit
down; we are lawyers; you are a man of business, we know. I dare say we shall soon understand
each other."

Mr. Chilton sat down, and moodily awaited what was next to come.

"You are aware," said Mr. Flint, "that you have rendered yourself liable to transportation?"

"What"' exclaimed Chilton, flashing crimson, and starting to his feet. "What!"

"To transportation," continued my imperturbable partner, "for seven, ten, fourteen years, or
for life, at the discretion of the judge; but, considering the frequency of the crime of late,
I should say there is a strong probability that you will be a lifer!"

"What devil's gibberish is this?" exclaimed Chilton, frightened, but still fierce. "I can prove
everything I have said. Mr. Gosford, I tell you"--

"Well, well," interrupted Mr. Flint; "put it in that light, how you please; turn it which way
you will; it's like the key in Blue Beard, which, I dare say, you have read of; rub it out
on one side, and up it comes on the other. Say, by way of argument, that you have not obtained
money by unfounded threats--a crime which the law holds tantamount to highway robbery. You
have in that case obtained money for compromising a felony--that of polygamy. An awful position,
my good sir, choose which you will."

Utterly chop-fallen was the lately triumphant man; but he speedily rallied.

"I care not," he at length said. "Punish me you may; but the pride of this sham countess and
the sham earl will be brought low. And I tell you once for all," he added, rising at the same
time, and speaking in ringing, wrathful tones, "that I defy you, and will either be handsomely
remunerated for silence, or I will at once inform the Honorable James Kingston that he is the
true Earl of Seyton."

"And I tell you," retorted Flint, "that if you attempt to leave this room, I will give you
into custody at once, and transport you, whatever may be the consequence to others. Come, come,
let us have no more nonsense or bluster. We have strong reasons for believing that the story
by which you have been extorting money, is a fabrication. If it be so, rely upon it we shall
detect and punish you. Your only safe course is to make a clean breast of it whilst there is
yet time. Out with it, man, at once, and you shall go Scot-free; nay, have a few score pounds
more--say a hundred. Be wise in time, I counsel you."

Chilton hesitated; his white lips quivered. There was something to reveal.

"I cannot," he muttered, after a considerable pause. "There is nothing to disclose."

"You will not! Then your fate be on your own head. I have done with you."

It was now my turn. "Come, come," I said, "it is useless urging this man further. How much
do you expect? The insolent proposal contained in your note is, you well know, out of the question.
How much money do you expect for keeping this wretched affair secret? State your terms at once."

"A thousand per annum," was the reply, "and the first year down."

"Modest, upon my word! But I suppose we must comply." I wrote out an agreement. "Will you sign
this?"

He ran it over. "Yes; Lady Seyton, as she calls herself, will take care it never sees the light."

I withdrew, and in two or three minutes returned with a check. "Her ladyship has no present
cash at the bankers," I said, "and is obliged to post-date this check twelve days."

The rascal grumbled a good deal; but as there was no help for it, he took the security, signed
the agreement, and walked off.

"A sweet nut that for the devil to crack," observed Mr. Flint, looking savagely after him.
"I am in hopes we shall trounce him yet, bravely as he carries it. The check of course is not
payable to order or bearer"

"Certainly not; and before twelve days are past, you will have returned from Ireland. The agreement
may be, I thought, of use with Cunningham or Mullins. If they have been conspiring together,
they will scarcely admire the light in which you can place the arrangement, as affording proof
that he means to keep the lion's share of the reward to himself."

"Exactly. At all events we shall get at the truth, whatever it be."

The same evening Mr. Flint started for Dublin viâ Holyhead.

I received in due course a letter from him dated the day after his arrival there. It was anything
but a satisfactory one. The date on the grave-stone had been truly represented, and Mullins
who erected it was a highly respectable man. Flint had also seen the grave-digger, but could
make nothing out of him. There was no regular register of deaths kept in Swords except that
belonging to Cunningham; and the minister who buried Gosford, and who lived at that time in
Dublin, had been dead some time. This was disheartening and melancholy enough; and, as if to
give our unfortunate client the coup-de-grace, Mr. Jackson, junior, marched into the office
just after I had read it, to say that, having been referred by Lady Seyton to us for explanations,
with respect to a statement made by a Mr. Edward Chilton to the Honorable James Kingston, for
whom they, the Messrs. Jackson, were now acting, by which it appeared that the said Honorable
James Kingston was, in fact, the true Earl of Seyton, he, Mr. Jackson, junior, would be happy
to hear what I had to say upon the subject! It needed but this. Chilton had, as I feared he
would, after finding we had been consulted, sold his secret, doubtless advantageously, to the
heir-at-law. There was still, however, a chance that something favorable might turn up, and,
as I had no notion of throwing that chance away, I carelessly replied that we had reason to
believe Chilton's story was a malicious fabrication, and that we should of course throw on
them the onus of judicial proof that Gosford was still alive when the late earl's marriage
was solemnized. Finally, however, to please Mr. Jackson, who professed to be very anxious,
for the lady's sake, to avoid unnecessary éclat, and to arrange the affair as quietly as possible,
I agreed to meet him at Lady Seyton's in four days from that time, and hear the evidence upon
which he relied. This could not at all events render our position worse; and it was, meanwhile,
agreed that the matter should be kept as far as possible profoundly secret.

Three days passed without any further tidings from Mr. Flint, and I vehemently feared that
his journey had proved a fruitless one, when, on the evening previous to the day appointed
for the conference at Seyton House, a hackney-coach drove rapidly up to the office door, and
out popped Mr. Flint, followed by two strangers, whom he very watchfully escorted into the house.

"Mr. Patrick Mullins and Mr. Pierce Cunningham," said Flint as he shook hands with me in a
way which, in conjunction with the merry sparkle of his eyes, and the boisterous tone of his
voice, assured me all was right. "Mr. Pierce Cunningham will sleep here to-night," he added;
"so Collins had better engage a bed out."

Cunningham, an ill-looking lout of a fellow, muttered, that he chose "to sleep at a tavern."

"Not if I know it, my fine fellow," rejoined Mr. Flint. "You mean well, I dare say; but I cannot
lose sight of you for all that. You either sleep here or at a station-house."

The man stared with surprise and alarm; but knowing refusal or resistance to be hopeless, sullenly
assented to the arrangement, and withdrew to the room appointed for him, vigilantly guarded.
For Mr. Mullins we engaged a bed at a neighboring tavern.

Mr. Flint's mission had been skillfully and successfully accomplished. He was convinced, by
the sullen confusion of manner manifested by Cunningham, that some villainous agency had been
at work, and he again waited on Mullins, the stone-cutter. "Who gave you the order for the
grave-stone?" he asked. Mr. Mullins referred to his book, and answered that he received it
by letter. "Had he got that letter?" "Very likely," he replied, "as he seldom destroyed business
papers of any kind." "A search was instituted, and finally this letter," said Mr. Flint, "worth
an earl's coronet, torn and dirty as it is, turned up." This invaluable document, which bore
the London postdate of June 23, 1832, ran as follows:--

"Anglesea Hotel, Haymarket, London, June 23, 1832.

"Sir--Please to erect a plain tomb-stone at the head of Charles Gosford, Esquire's grave, who
died a few month's since at Swords, aged thirty-two years. This is all that need be inscribed
upon it. You are referred to Mr. Guinness of Sackville Street, Dublin, for payment. Your obedient
servant,

"Edward Chilton."

"You see," continued Flint, "the fellow had inadvertently left out the date of Gosford's death,
merely stating it occurred a few months previously; and Mullins concluded that, in entering
the order in his day-book, he must have somehow or other confounded the date of the letter
with that of Gosford's decease. Armed with this precious discovery, I again sought Cunningham,
and by dint of promises and threats, at last got the truth out of the rascal. It was this:--Chilton,
who returned to this country from the Cape, where he had resided for three years previously,
about two months ago, having some business to settle in Dublin, went over there, and one day
visited Swords, read the inscription on Charles Gosford's grave-stone, and immediately sought
out the grave-digger, and asked him if he had any record of that gentleman's burial. Cunningham
said he had, and produced his book, by which it appeared that it took place December 24, 1831.
"That cannot be," remarked Chilton, and he referred to the head-stone. Cunningham said he had
noticed the mistake a few days after it was erected; but thinking it of no consequence, and
never having, that he knew of, seen Mr. Mullins since, he had said, and indeed thought, nothing
about it. To conclude the story--Chilton ultimately, by payment of ten pounds down, and liberal
promises for the future, prevailed upon the grave-digger to lend himself to the infamous device
the sight of the grave-stone had suggested to his fertile, unscrupulous brain."

This was indeed a glorious success and the firm of Flint and Sharp drank the Countess of Seyton's
health that evening with great enthusiasm, and gleefully "thought of the morrow."

We found the drawing-room of Seyton House occupied by the Honorable James Kingston, his solicitors,
the Messrs. Jackson, Lady Seyton, and her father and sister, to whom she had at length disclosed
the source of her disquietude. The children were leaving the apartment as we entered it, and
the grief-dimmed eyes of the countess rested sadly upon her bright-eyed boy as he slowly withdrew
with his sisters. That look changed to one of wild surprise as it encountered Mr. Flint's shining,
good-humored countenance. I was more composed and reserved than my partner, though feeling
as vividly as he did the satisfaction of being able not only to dispel Lady Seyton's anguish,
but to extinguish the exultation, and trample on the hopes, of the Honorable James Kingston,
a stiff, grave, middle-aged piece of hypocritical propriety, who was surveying from out the
corners of his affectedly-unobservant eyes the furniture and decorations of the splendid apartment,
and hugging himself with the thought that all that was his! Business was immediately proceeded
with. Chilton was called in. He repeated his former story verbatim, and with much fluency and
confidence. He then placed in the hands of Jackson, senior, the vouchers signed by Cunningham
and Mullins. The transient light faded from Lady Seyton's countenance as she turned despairingly,
almost accusingly, towards us.

"What answer have you to make to this gentleman's statement, thus corroborated?" demanded Jackson,
senior.

"Quite a remarkable one," replied Mr. Flint, as he rang the bell. "Desire the gentlemen in
the library to step up," he added to the footman who answered the summons. In about three minutes
in marched Cunningham and Mullins, followed by two police-officers. An irrepressible exclamation
of terror escaped Chilton, which was immediately echoed by Mr. Flint's direction to the police,
as he pointed towards the trembling caitiff: "That is your man--secure him."

A storm of exclamations, questions, remonstrances, instantly broke forth, and it was several
minutes before attention could be obtained for the statements of our two Irish witnesses and
the reading of the happily-found letter. The effect of the evidence adduced was decisive, electrical.
Lady Seyton, as its full significance flashed upon her, screamed with convulsive joy, and I
thought must have fainted from excess of emotion. The Rev. John Hayley returned audible thanks
to God in a voice quivering with rapture, and Miss Hayley ran out of the apartment, and presently
returned with the children, who were immediately half-smothered with their mother's ecstatic
kisses. All was for a few minutes bewilderment, joy, rapture! Flint persisted to his dying
day, that Lady Seyton threw her arms round his neck, and kissed his bald old forehead. This,
however, I cannot personally vouch for, as my attention was engaged at the moment by the adverse
claimant, the Honorable James Kingston, who exhibited one of the most irresistibly comic, wo-begone,
lackadaisical aspects it is possible to conceive. He made a hurried and most undignified exit,
and was immediately followed by the discomfited "family" solicitors. Chilton was conveyed to
a station-house, and the next day was fully committed for trial. He was convicted at the next
sessions, and sentenced to seven years' transportation; and the "celebrated" firm of Flint
and Sharp, derived considerable lustre, and more profit, from this successful stroke of professional
dexterity.

JANE ECCLES

The criminal business of the office was, during the first three or four years of our partnership,
entirely superintended by Mr. Flint; he being more an fait, from early practice, than myself
in the art and mystery of prosecuting and defending felons, and I was thus happily relieved
of duties which, in the days when George III. was king, were frequently very oppressive and
revolting. The criminal practitioner dwelt in an atmosphere tainted alike with cruelty and
crime, and pulsating alternately with merciless decrees of death, and the shrieks and wailings
of sentenced guilt. And not always guilt! There exist many records of proofs, incontestable,
but obtained too late, of innocence having been legally strangled on the gallows in other cases
than that of Eliza Fenning. How could it be otherwise with a criminal code crowded in every
line with penalties of death, nothing but--death? Juster, wiser times have dawned upon us,
in which truer notions prevail of what man owes to man, even when sitting in judgment on transgressors;
and this we owe, let us not forget, to the exertions of a band of men who, undeterred by the
sneers of the reputedly wise and practical men of the world, and the taunts of "influential"
newspapers, persisted in teaching that the rights of property could be more firmly cemented
than by the shedding of blood--law, justice, personal security more effectually vindicated
than by the gallows. Let me confess that I also was, for many years, amongst the mockers, and
sincerely held such "theorists" and "dreamers" as Sir Samuel Romilly and his fellow-workers
in utter contempt. Not so my partner, Mr. Flint. Constantly in the presence of criminal judges
and juries, he had less confidence in the unerring verity of their decisions than persons less
familiar with them, or who see them only through the medium of newspapers. Nothing could exceed
his distress of mind if, in cases in which he was prosecuting attorney, a convict died persisting
in his innocence, or without a full confession of guilt. And to such a pitch did this morbidly-sensitive
feeling at length arrive, that he all at once refused to undertake, or in any way meddle with,
criminal prosecutions, and they were consequently turned over to our head clerk, with occasional
assistance from me if there happened to be a press of business of the sort. Mr. Flint still,
however, retained a monopoly of the defences, except when, from some temporary cause or other,
he happened to be otherwise engaged, when they fell to me. One of these I am about to relate,
the result of which, whatever other impression it produced, thoroughly cured me--as it may
the reader--of any propensity to sneer or laugh at criminal-law reformers and denouncers of
the gallows.

One forenoon, during the absence of Mr. Flint in Wiltshire, a Mrs. Margaret Davies called at
the office, in apparently great distress of mind. This lady, I must premise, was an old, or
at all events an elderly maiden, of some four-and-forty years of age--I have heard a very intimate
female friend of hers say she would never see fifty again, but this was spite--and possessed
of considerable house property in rather poor localities. She found abundant employment for
energies which might otherwise have turned to cards and scandal, in collecting her weekly,
monthly, and quarterly rents, and in promoting, or fancying she did, the religious and moral
welfare of her tenants. Very bare-faced, I well knew, were the impositions practiced upon her
credulous good-nature in money matters, and I strongly suspected the spiritual and moral promises
and performances of her motley tenantry exhibited as much discrepancy as those pertaining to
rent. Still, deceived or cheated as she might be, good Mrs. Davies never wearied in what she
conceived to be well-doing, and was ever ready to pour balm and oil into the wounds of the
sufferer, however self-inflicted or deserved.

"What is the matter now?" I asked as soon as the good lady was seated, and had untied and loosened
her bonnet, and thrown back her shawl, fast walking having heated her prodigiously. "Nothing
worse than transportation is, I hope, likely to befall any of those interesting clients of yours?"

"You are a hard-hearted man, Mr. Sharp," replied Mrs. Davies between a smile and a cry; "but
being a lawyer, that is of course natural, and, as I am not here to consult you as a Christian,
of no consequence."

"Complimentary, Mrs. Davies; but pray, go on."

"You know Jane Eccles, one of my tenants in Bank Buildings--the embroidress who adopted her
sister's orphan child?"

"I remember her name. She obtained, if I recollect rightly, a balance of wages for her due
to the child's father, a mate, who died at sea. Well, what has befallen her?"

"A terrible accusation has been preferred against her," rejoined Mrs. Davies; "but as for a
moment believing it, that is quite out of the question. Jane Eccles," continued the warm-hearted
lady, at the same time extracting a crumpled newspaper from the miscellaneous contents of her
reticule--"Jane Eccles works hard from morning till night, keeps herself to herself; her little
nephew and her rooms are always as clean and nice as a new pin; she attends church regularly;
and pays her rent punctually to the day. This disgraceful story, therefore," he added, placing
the journal in my hands, "cannot be true."

I glanced over the police news:--'Uttering forged Bank-of-England notes, knowing them to be
forged;' I exclaimed, "The devil!"

"There's no occasion to be spurting that name out so loudly, Mr. Sharp," said Mrs. Davies with
some asperity, "especially in a lawyer's office. People have been wrongfully accused before
to-day, I suppose?"

I was intent on the report, and not answering, she continued, "I heard nothing of it till I
read the shameful account in the paper half an hour agone. The poor slandered girl was, I dare
say, afraid or ashamed to send for me."

"This appears to be a very bad case, Mrs. Davies," I said at length. "Three forged ten-pound
notes changed in one day at different shops each time, under the pretence of purchasing articles
of small amount, and another ten-pound note found in her pocket! All that has, I must say,
a very ugly look."

"I don't care," exclaimed Mrs. Davies quite fiercely, "if it looks as ugly as sin, or if the
whole Bank of England was found in her pocket! I know Jane Eccles well; she nursed me last
spring through the fever; and I would be upon my oath that the whole story, from beginning
to end, is an invention of the devil, or something worse."

"Jane Eccles," I persisted, "appears to have been unable or unwilling to give the slightest
explanation as to how she became possessed of the spurious notes. Who is this brother of hers,
'of such highly respectable appearance,' according to the report, who was permitted a private
interview with her previous to the examination?"

"She has no brother that I have ever heard of," said Mrs. Davies. "It must be a mistake of
the papers."

"That is not likely. You observed of course that she was fully committed--and no wonder!"

Mrs. Davies's faith in the young woman's integrity was not to be shaken by any evidence save
that of her own bodily eyes, and I agreed to see Jane Eccles on the morrow, and make the best
arrangements for the defence--at Mrs. Davies' charge--which the circumstances and the short
time I should have for preparation--the Old Bailey session would be on in a few days--permitted.
The matter so far settled, Mrs. Margaret hurried off to see what had become of little Henry,
the prisoner's nephew.

I visited Jane Eccles the next day in Newgate. She was a well-grown young woman of about two
or three-and-twenty--not exactly pretty perhaps, but very well-looking. Her brown hair was
plainly worn, without a cap, and the expression of her face was, I thought, one of sweetness
and humility, contradicted in some degree by rather harsh lines about the mouth, denoting strong
will and purpose. As a proof of the existence of this last characteristic, I may here mention
that, when her first overweening confidence had yielded to doubt, she, although dotingly fond
of her nephew, at this time about eight years of age, firmly refused to see him, "in order,"
she once said to me--and the thought brought a deadly pallor to her face--in order that, should
the worst befall, her memory might not be involuntarily connected in his mind with images of
dungeons, and disgrace, and shame. Jane Eccles had received what is called in the country,
"a good schooling," and the books Mrs. Davies had lent her she had eagerly perused. She was
therefore to a certain extent a cultivated person; and her speech and manners were mild, gentle,
and, so to speak, religious. I generally found, when I visited her, a Bible or prayer-book
in her hand. This, however, from my experience, comparatively slight though it was, did not
much impress me in her favor--devotional sentiment so easily, for a brief time, assumed, being
in nine such cases out of ten a hypocritical deceit. Still she, upon the whole, made a decidedly
favorable impression on me, and I no longer so much wondered at the bigotry of unbelief manifested
by Mrs. Davies in behalf of her apparently amiable and grateful protégée.

But beyond the moral doubt thus suggested of the prisoner's guilt, my interviews with her utterly
failed to extract anything from her in rebutment of the charge upon which she was about to
be arraigned. At first she persisted in asserting that the prosecution was based upon manifest
error; that the impounded notes, instead of being forged, were genuine Bank-of-England paper.
It was some time before I succeeded in convincing her that this hope, to which she so eagerly,
desperately clung, was a fallacious one. I did so at last; and either, thought I, as I marked
her varying color and faltering voice, "either you are a consummate actress, or else the victim
of some frightful delusion or conspiracy."

"I will see you, if you please, to-morrow," she said, looking up from the chair upon which,
with her head bowed and her face covered with her hands, she had been seated for several minutes
in silence. "My thoughts are confused now, but to-morrow I shall be more composed; better able
to decide if--to talk, I mean, of this unhappy business."

I thought it better to comply without remonstrance, and at once took my leave.

When I returned the next afternoon, the governor of the prison informed me that the brother
of my client, James Eccles, quite a dashing gentleman, had had a long interview with her. He
had left about two hours before, with the intention, he said, of calling upon me.

I was conducted to the room where my conferences with the prisoner usually took place. In a
few minutes she appeared, much flushed and excited, it seemed to be alternately with trembling
joy and hope, and doubt, and nervous fear.

"Well," I said, "I trust you are now ready to give me your unreserved confidence, without which,
be assured, that any reasonable hope of a successful issue from the peril in which you are
involved is out of the question."

The varying emotions I have noticed were clearly traceable as they swept over her tell-tale
countenance during the minute or so that elapsed before she spoke.

"Tell me candidly, sir," she said at last, "whether, if I owned to you that the notes were
given to me by a--a person, whom I cannot, if I would, produce, to purchase various articles
at different shops, and return him--the person I mean--the change; and that I made oath this
was done by me in all innocence of heart, as the God of heaven and earth truly knows it was,
it would avail me?"

