 When the unfolding of the
plot is thus orderly in its development, the reader feels his kindling interest going forward
to the outcome with a keener relish because of the quickening of thought, as well as of emotion,
in piecing together the details that arouse a glow of satisfaction.

=3. The Character Interest.=--We can hardly have any vital interest in a story apart from an
interest in the characters. It is because things happen to them, because we are glad of their
good fortune or apprehensive of evil for them, that the incidents in their succession gain
importance in our emotions. We are concerned with things that affect our lives, and secondarily
with things that affect the lives of others, since what touches the fortunes of others is but
a part of that complex web of destiny and environment in which our own lives are enmeshed.
In the story it is not so true as in the drama that, for the going out of our sympathies toward
the hero or the heroine, there should be other contrasting characters; but a story gains color
and movement from having a variety of individualities. Especially if the story is one of action,
definite sympathies are heightened when they are accompanied by emotional antagonisms. In "The
Master of Ballantrae," we come to take sides with Henry Durrie almost wholly through having
found his rival, the Master, so black a monster. Such establishment of a common bond of interest
between us and the character with whom our sympathies are to be engaged is a most effective
means of holding us to a personal involvement in the development of the plot. There must not
be too many characters shown, the relations between them must not be too various or too complexly
conflicting, but where the interplay of feeling and clashing motives is not too hard to grasp,
a variety of characters gives life and warmth of human interest to a story.

=4. Uses of Description.=--Inasmuch as there are other interests in our lives than those which
are established by our relations with our fellows, interests connected with the material world
about us, any narrative will probably have occasion to include some description. It may be
necessary merely as an aid to our understanding of some of the details upon which the plot
turns, it may help us to realize the personalities of the characters, and it is often useful
in creating background and atmosphere, giving us some of the feelings of those with whom the
story deals as they look upon the beauty, or the gray dullness, of the changing panorama of
their lives. Stevenson's description of the "old sea-dog" in "Treasure Island" is an excellent
illustration of the effectiveness of a few lines of description in making us know something
very definite in the man.

    "I remember him as if it were yesterday, as he came plodding to
    the inn door, his sea-chest following behind him in a
    handbarrow, a tall, strong, heavy, nut-brown man; his hands
    ragged and scarred, with black, broken nails, and the saber cut
    across one cheek, a lurid white."

=5.= Rossetti in "The Bride's Prelude," a story in verse, after merely glancing at the opening
of the tale, devotes eight stanzas to description introduced for the purpose of background
and atmosphere. Two of them are given here.

    "Within the window's heaped recess
       The light was counterchanged
     In blent reflexes manifold
     From perfume caskets of wrought gold
     And gems the bride's hair could not hold

    "All thrust together: and with these
       A slim-curved lute, which now,
     At Amelotte's sudden passing there,
     Was swept in some wise unaware,
     And shook to music the close air."

This helps us to enter into the life and spirit of the time and place, to conceive imaginatively
the likings, the desires, the passions, the purposes, and the powers that shall be potent in
the story.

=6. Kinds of Description.=--Description is primarily of two kinds, that which is to give accurate
information, and that which is to produce a definite impression not necessarily involving exactness
of imagery. The first of these forms is useful simply in the way of explanation, serving the
first purpose indicated in paragraph four. The second is useful for other purposes than that
of exposition, often appealing incidentally to our sense of the beautiful, and requiring always
nice literary skill in its management. It should be borne in mind always that literary description
must not usurp the office of representations of the material in the plastic arts. It should
not be employed as an end in itself, but only as subsidiary to other ends.

=7. Various Moods as Incidents.=--The moods in the characters of a story and their changes
are connected with the incidents of the story, since they are in part happenings, and with
the characters, since they reveal character. Apart from direct statement of them, we understand
the moods of the actors in the little drama which we are made to imagine is being played before
us from the things they say, from the things they do, and from gestures, attitudes, movements,
which the author visualizes for us. If these moods are not made clear to us or we cannot see
that they are natural, definite reactions from previous happenings in accord with character,
we do not have a sense of organic unity in the narrative. We become confused in trying to establish
the dependence of incident and feeling upon something preceding, and our interest flags. Everything
that happens in a well-told story gives us feelings which we look to find in those whom the
happenings affect in the tale, feelings which should call forth some sort of responsive action
for our satisfaction. Clearly, if the characters are cold, if we cannot find in them moods
of the kind and intensity that to us seem warranted, the story will be a disappointment.

LITERARY DIVISIONS AND GENERAL PRINCIPLES

=8. The Conceptual and Emotional.=--Theoretically all writing is divided easily into two classes,
conceptual and emotional, the literature of thought and the literature of feeling. In the actual
attempt to classify written composition on this basis, however, no sharp distinction can be
maintained. Even matters of fact, certainly such matters of fact as we care to write about,
are of more or less moment to us; we cannot deal with them in a wholly unemotional way. In
our daily lives we are continually reaching conclusions that differ from the conclusions reached
by others about the same matters of fact, and are trying to make these matters of fact have
the same value for others that they have for us. This is true of our business life as well
as of our social and home life. It always will be so. It is doubtless true that if our knowledge
of matters of fact embraced a knowledge of the universe, and if the experience of each of us
were just like that of his fellow and included all possible experience, we might reach identical
conclusions. This is not true and never can be true. It is in effect true of a small portion
of the things about which we think,--the addition of one to two makes three for every one,--but
outside of these things, writing need not be and seldom is purely conceptual.

=9. Subject-matter.=--Various as are the things about which we write and manifold as are our
interests in them, they may be classified for our purposes under four heads: Matters of Fact,
Experience, Beauty, Truth. Again, we shall find difficulty in separating each of these from
each of the others. Some of our experiences have certainly been revelations of matters of fact;
without our experiences, we should hardly have acquired any real sense of the beautiful; save
for them we could not have known anything of truth. No accurate definition of these things
carefully distinguishing between them can be attempted here. It may be assumed that what is
meant by matters of fact will be understood without definition. As we read the story in great
measure for the purpose of enlarging our experience, this part of our possible literary material
is worth considering further. In the child we are able to detect very early a growing curiosity.
That curiosity does not disappear when the child has grown from boy to man; he is still asking
questions of the universe, still trying to piece the fragments of his knowledge into a law-ordered
and will-ordered whole. What he knows has been the product of experience, what he may yet know
further must be the product of experience. This experience may not all be personal, but even
that which he gets at second hand is so far useful in helping him toward that understanding
of the universe for which he hopes. He never will reach that understanding, all his experience
will make but a fraction of things to be known matters of fact to him; and yet a deathless
interest in the scarcely recognized belief that the facts and forces of which he has known
have some unifying principle makes his emotions quicken at every new experience that may have
possible significance.

=10. Appeal of Experience, Beauty, and Truth.=--It will be evident, then, that experience which
somehow makes the impression of superior importance may be presented inorganically and yet
gain an interested hearing. The method of creating this impression, whether through the appearance
of conviction in the writer or by various literary devices, need not detain us here. We shall
be concerned merely with noting that the possible relation of the particular to the general,
of this experience to the whole of experience, makes it a thing of moment. In just what way
experience develops in us the sense of the beautiful, just what it is in anything that makes
us distinguish beauty in it, cannot now be determined. It will be enough for us to know that
literature makes a large appeal to a sense of the beautiful in us, a sense not fortuitous and
irrational, though varying, but normal and almost universal, dependent upon natural laws of
development. Truth is also difficult of definition, but we may understand that when out of
experience, as through a process of reasoning, we have reached a conclusion that is something
more than a matter of fact, a conclusion touching our emotions and having vital spiritual interest
to us, the experience, whether our own directly or at second hand, has brought us to a truth.
Truth is, perhaps, that matter of fact of universal intelligence that transcends the matter
of fact of the finite mind.

=11. Literary Principles and Qualities.=--There are some fundamental principles of literary
presentation which we may briefly review here. All our study of science, and in a less obvious
fashion, of all the physical, social, and artistic world about us, is more or less an attempt
to classify, simplify, and unify facts whose relations we do not see at a glance. We must observe
and learn the facts first, but they will be of no great utility to us as unrelated items of
knowledge. The need of establishing some sort of law and order in our understanding of the
mass of phenomena of which we must take cognizance is so insistent that we early acquire the
habit of attempting to hold in mind any new fact through its relation to some other fact or
facts. In other words, we can retain the knowledge we acquire only by making one fact do duty
for a great many other facts included in it. Our writing must not violate what is at once a
necessity and a pleasure of the mind. Unity, simplicity, coherence, harmony, or congruity,
must all be sought as essential qualities of any writing. We must also indicate our sense of
the relative values of the things with which we deal by a proper selection of details for presentation,
a careful subordination of the less important to the more important through the proportion
of space and attention given to each, and through other devices for securing emphasis. Let
us keep in mind value, selection, subordination, proportion, emphasis, as a second group of
terms for principles involved in writing. We may also wish to give our subject further elements
of appeal through what may be suggested beyond the telling, through the melody and rhythm of
the words, or through a quickening of the sense of the beautiful. Suggestion, melody, rhythm,
beauty, are to be included, then, in a third group of qualities that may contribute to the
effectiveness of what we write.

=12. Conceptual Writing.=--Of the literary qualities that have just been discussed, only the
first group is perhaps essential to what has been designated as conceptual writing. Here we
may place expository writing on subjects wholly matter of fact, mathematical discussions, scientific
treatises largely, though not necessarily, and other writing of like character. As unity is
the quality of importance here, we may well consider the units of discourse. Our first unit
is that of the whole composition, the second that of the paragraph, and the third that of the
sentence. Which of these is the prime unit, as the dollar is the prime unit of our medium of
exchange, may not be evident at once; but if we examine the writing of clear thinkers carefully,
without attempting to settle the matter in any doctrinaire fashion, we shall find that the
paragraph, and not the sentence, is the more unified whole. I turn to Cardinal Newman, and
in the middle of a paragraph find the sentence, "This should be carefully observed," a sentence
meaningless when taken from the context. As a part of the paragraph it has a function, but
it is certainly as a unit of detail and not as a prime unit. A writer like Carlyle makes these
lesser units more important, but they are still subordinate to their use in the paragraph.
In all our writing we shall do much for the unity, simplicity, and coherence of our work by
seeing to it that our paragraphs are properly arranged and that each fulfills this function
of a prime unit in the composition.

=13. The Sense of Value.=--When, in addition to statement of mere matters of fact, an author
wishes to impress his readers with his own sense of the importance and the value of what he
has to say, or of some special phase of his subject, he will employ the principles of the second
group spoken of in a preceding paragraph. They cannot be ignored, indeed, in explanation of
the simplest matters of fact, but a writer who means to convince and persuade will make more
use of them. His personality will express itself in the selection of details and in the emphasis
he places upon one detail or another. Among the literary forms which, besides being conceptual,
are also concerned with persuasion, we find the oration, the essay, a great deal of business
correspondence, and much of what we read in magazines and newspapers.

=14. Writing having Artistic Quality.=--When in addition to expressing matters of fact or truth,
appealing perhaps to experience, we wish to arouse some sense of the beautiful and the artistic,
we shall give our writing some or all of the qualities of the third group. Evidently, writing
of this sort is in many respects the most difficult, since the writer must have regard for
unity and the related principles, as well as for the qualities which peculiarly distinguish
it. Experience, beauty, and truth are all available as subject-matter, and all the principles
governing literary composition are concerned. Here we shall find the poem, the drama, the oration
in some of its forms, most essays of the better sort, the greater part of good critical writing,
literary description, and all narrative forms except the matter-of-fact historical writing
of unliterary scholars.

=15. Two Things Requisite in Writing.=--It is to be borne in mind that the foregoing classifications
are by no means absolute. Gardiner in his "Forms of Prose Literature" says very truly that
the "essential elements, not only of literature, but of all the fine arts, are: first, an organic
unity of conception; and second, the pervasive personality of the artist." It is true that
much of our writing does not aspire to literary character, but in very little of our writing
of any sort can we afford to neglect the first of these elements, and in very little of it
do we care to leave the second out of account. Even in exposition of the simpler sort we may
give to our writing the distinction of a more luminous style and the stronger appeal of a warmer
personal interest, if we shape it into organic unity and make evident in it "the pervasive
personality of the artist."

THE STORY IN PARTICULAR

=16. The Art of the Story.=--However abstract the thinking of civilized man may become, "all
our intelligence," to quote Ladd's "Outlines of Physiological Psychology," "is intelligence
about something or other, ... resting on a basis of sensations and volitions." Difficult as
it is and difficult as are the problems involved in its construction, the story is from some
points of view the most elementary of literary forms. It is concerned directly with matters
of sensation and volition. If it is to play upon our emotions, it must revive sensations and
volitions, make us in some degree part of the action. Experience is at once its warp and woof,
but while it gives us new experiences, it must, in connection with them, revive old ones and
so become tangible and real for us.

Of the memories that have come to us through the senses of sight, hearing, touch, smell, and
taste, those that are visual are probably the most clearly defined and persistent for most
people. The sensation of hearing doubtless comes next, and then those of touch, smell, and
taste. A name will suffice to make us see the face of an absent friend; a few words, or the
sight of a music roll, is enough to make us hear a favorite melody; a line or two on a printed
page brings back to us the scent of the hayfield or the heavy odor of hyacinths in a conservatory.
We must remember, too, that this may be in each case, not simply a bringing back of the idea
of the things, but a reviving of the sensations themselves. The seat of sensation is after
all the brain. Originally we experience sensation through some excitation of the end organs
of sense, the ear, the nerves of touch, the retina; but these sensations become associated
with verbal images in the mind, and finally the excitation of the verbal images results also
in the revival of the original sensation. There is perhaps no one of us who has not seen wholly
imaginary moving shadows or flashing lights in the dark. Such cases are not good illustrations
of the point, possibly, but most of us can at will hear a connected succession of notes with
which we have familiarized ourselves. In my own recent experience there occurred a very clear
and wholly unexpected subjective sense of smell when reading of an experiment with frogs which
recalled the distinctive odor of slimy water. Mr. James Sully, in "Illusions," says, "Stories
are told of portrait painters who could summon visual images of their sitters with a vividness
equal to that of reality, and serving all the purposes of their art." The same writer says
again, and this is peculiarly significant, that "the physiologist Gruithuisen had a dream in
which the principal feature was a violet flame, and which left behind it, after waking for
an appreciable duration, a complementary image of a yellow spot." Here a purely subjective
impression had been reproduced in the nerves of sense.

=17. The Place of Sensation in Writing.=--The thing that it seems important to dwell upon here
is that subjective sensations do go out from the brain and stimulate in a very real fashion
the sensations that are naturally excited by external stimuli localizing themselves in the
end organs of sense. As these sensations, while not the all of emotion, are largely involved
in emotion as its more poignant element, and as emotion is a first requisite in the appeal
of a story, it is evident that the writer of stories will do well to acquire the art of reviving
sensations. Further, as in the quickening of sensations our ideas become more tangible and
real, writers who employ other literary forms will find that their style gains clarity and
distinction by a like appeal to sensation when possible. Just how successful story-writers
make appeal to sensation, revive experience, give new experience, and touch the sense of the
beautiful is to be taken up more definitely in the following pages. We can understand, of course,
that subjective sensations are not as strong as those which we experience directly, but on
the other hand they may be more varied, they may crowd in upon us more rapidly, they may be
more congruously chosen for a definite effect than in our actual life. The total effect may
then be no less pronounced. In discovering how this is brought about we shall find the art
of the short story.

SPECIAL STUDY OF THE STORY

=18. Symbols for Visualization.=--On analyzing a story for the purpose of discovering the elements
of which it is composed, and the kind and degree of appeal which they have for us, we shall
find it convenient to employ a few symbols for the purpose of labeling our findings for discussion
in the class room. Some of the directions which we make will be based upon differences in the
way in which the things presented are effective in our minds, others upon differences in the
things presented, themselves. First we shall work with symbols of description and visualization,
of which for convenience we may distinguish four sorts shading one into the other, not clearly
defined, and yet worth discussing, that we may cultivate a sharper sense of qualities of effectiveness
in visualization. For these four sorts of visualization we may employ the symbols, V1, V2,
V3, VB3. For the first of these the symbol V1 is not very satisfactory, since we will employ
it for simple description which presents rather the idea of the thing than a mental picture,
but it will perhaps be simpler to use it than to use a symbol for the word description. Having
in mind the idea of a thing, we may by mental effort, if the idea is defined with sufficient
clearness, call up the image of the object. V2 is the symbol for a visualization through a
suggestion which the mind, by reason of the interest kindled, fills out to something more than
the mere idea, more or less definite imagery resulting. In the V3 form, we are, as it were,
compelled to see the image without mental effort, so swiftly and surely do the verbal memory
images reëstablish old sensations or combine with old sensations to the formation of new. In
the fourth form, we will add the B (Beauty) when the image which we see is such as to appeal
pleasurably to the æsthetic sense. That there should be perfect agreement in the use of any
one of these symbols in any particular case is, of course, not to be expected. Our individual
experiences have been so different and the associations of sensation are so varied that the
character and intensity of any visualization must differ in each individual. This, of course,
is one of the things that complicate the problem of literary composition and make study of
these things of particular importance.

=19. Audition and Other Sensations.=--As the problem of audition is of less moment than that
of visualization, we will make but the one distinction between such presentation of sound as
calls up the idea of the sound only, a1 and such as produces in us the sense of the sound itself,
a2, premising that any one who chooses may make the three divisions preceding.

Appeals to the other senses as occurring less often, we may group together under the symbol
S, using 1 with this, as with a, when it comes to us in the conceptual way, and 2 when it comes
as an excitant of sensation.

=20. Instances of Visualization.=--Before we go farther, it will be well to examine briefly
an example or two of literary description.

Here we shall first use the symbol V2, because the image presented is one that appeals at once
to experience, experience too that has not been dimmed by frequence. The instant when the rim
of the sun comes up bright and red is the instant when our expectation is most kindled toward
the glory of the dawn and of the day which it foretokens. "The vanguard of his strength" in
the next clause suggests the purely fanciful. This mixture of the concrete and the abstract
does not go back to sensation, a thing worth noting and so the visualization is destroyed.
The dependent clause brings up a new visualization, a V2, in the "dust of a small town." The
second sentence is V1, until the close when it becomes V2 through the quickening of memories
that have been emotional. The vagueness of a village hidden in the mist has appealed to our
imagination in the assurance of a something unknown. The next sentence is V1, and so also is
the next until in "the shrewd bite as of night air" we get an S2. The V2 of the faint blue
of the sky is destroyed, as in the first sentence, by the merely intellectual playing of fancy
in "Aurora's beauty-sleep." The next sentence gives us an S2 in the closing clause, for which
the two preceding have been a preparation.

In this from Robert Louis Stevenson the last sentence brings the description to a V3; the smoking
harrow is suggestive of so much more than the cloud of dust that has not yet settled to the
earth in the stillness of the approaching twilight when the work of the day is done.

=21. Motor Effects of Visualization.=--There is another way in which things seen touch sensation.
Look at a picture of the Laocoön for a moment. Fix your eyes upon the contortions of the limbs,
see the agony of the face, note the fangs of the serpent ready to embed themselves in the flesh.
While fastening these fearful details in your mind have you not felt some of the horror of
it, and has not that feeling shown a tendency to innervate some of the muscles, has not your
face shown some of the suffering which you have been studying, and have you not felt a tendency
toward the muscular movements of one writhing in agony? Certainly, such motor impulses do result
from certain kinds of visualization, and it need hardly be said that they are peculiarly effective
in making us really alive with the emotion which inheres in the movement or the attitude which
we see. If the gestures of a speaker are to be effective, they must seem natural to us; that
is, they must be such as we would make if we were in that fashion attempting to express a similar
emotion. Otherwise the motor suggestions of the words and the motor suggestion of the gestures
may inhibit or neutralize each other, or at least produce a feeling of confusion. Halleck,
in his "Education of the Central Nervous System," says, "All states of consciousness contain
a motor element." When a visualization or an audition, as that of a sharp command, seems to
have motor effects, we may add to the symbols of kind and degree of sensation the symbol x.

=22. Inference in Literature.=--It was apparent in the visualization quoted from Stevenson
that some of the impressions which we get from literature we get as inferences. Dust does not
arise from a harrow so as to have the appearance of smoke on a windy day, and therefore we
know that it is quiet. In the opening of a story some things must be explained directly, and
for such explanatory matter, matter from which we infer nothing beyond the statement, we will
employ the symbol Exp.; but for other presentation of matters of fact we will employ the symbol
F1. From facts as presented--and we will use the term in a comprehensive sense--we may or may
not draw inferences, and we will distinguish facts from which no inference is drawn by the
symbol F1, and those from which inference is drawn by the symbol F2. An inference may be preponderatingly
intellectual or emotional; we may, when desirable, add the symbol a for one and b for the other.
An inference we may call an "effect," and a fact as effect, whether the effect be emotional
or conceptual, is clearly more potent in a literary way than a mere fact.

=23. Effects of Incident and Mood.=--Allied to the fact as effect is the incident which makes
us know something more than the happening itself. All incidents we may distinguish under the
symbols In1, In2a, In2b, the secondary symbols having the significance as with F above. Mood
effects are, in general, more important, and it will be worth while to distinguish three sorts,
m1, an inference which we draw regarding the mood of the writer, m2, a like inference which
becomes infectious, creating in us in some degree a like feeling, and m3, an "effect" enabling
us to draw an inference regarding the mood of a character in the story. In addition to this
we shall find direct statement of mood, but that we shall mark with some of the preceding symbols,
generally F1, perhaps. We may understand further that the mood effects are of both kind and
degree. When the showing of mood is such as to make us realize in it the intensity of strong
emotion or passion, we may indicate the heightening of the feeling by the addition of the symbol
d, using k alone, or with d to indicate that the character of the mood is shown.

