RHOTARI: Legum Prologus.

THE COMMUNES OF LOMBARDY FROM THE VI. TO THE X. CENTURY.

PART I.

THE LOMBARD CONQUEST AND ITS RESULTS.

Before tracing the beginnings of renewed municipal life in Northern Italy, we must consider
the conditions of land and people, which first rendered possible and then fostered the spirit
of local independence of which such beginnings were the natural expression. To do this we must
commence our researches with the first domination of the Lombards in the country.

In detail the story of the conquest of Northern Italy by the Lombards under Alboin, in 568,
hardly differs materially from that of the inroads of other barbarian tribes of the north on
the fertile plains of Italy. The causes were the same. Where the distinction is to be found
from other such invasions, is in the results of the Lombard occupation, and in the different
methods which the Lombards adopted so as to render their power and their possessions permanent.
Let us look at the character of this invading host, which sweeps like a tide, at once destroying
and revivifying, over the exhausted though still fertile plains of the Po and the Adige. Are
we to call it a moving people or an advancing army? Are we to call its leaders (duces, from
ducere to lead), heads of clans and families, or captains and generals? Finally, is the land
to be invaded, or is the land to be settled? To all these questions the only answer is to be
found in the conception of the absolute union of both the kinds of functions described. A people
is moving from a home whose borders have proved too narrow for its increasing numbers; an army
is conquering a new home, where plenty will take the place of want, and luxury of privation.
It is not an army marching at the command of a strongly centralized power to conquer a rich
neighbor, and force a defeated enemy to pay it service or tribute. It is a body which, when
it has conquered as an army, will occupy as a people; when it is established as a people, will
still remain an army. The sword was not turned into the ploughshare; but the power to wield
the sword had given the right to till the land, and soon the power to hold the land was to
give the right to wear the sword. It was the conquest of a highly civilized agricultural people--whose
very civilization had reduced them to a stage of moral weakness which rendered them totally
unfit to defend themselves--by a semi-barbarous people, agricultural also, but rude, uncivilized,
independent, owning no rulers but their family or military chiefs.

The conquerors took possession of the country simply as they would take possession of a larger
farm than they had before owned. Their riches were only such as served for the support of men--herds,
land, wine and corn. They needed cultivators for their large farm, so instead of destroying
every one with fire and sword, they spared those of the weak inhabitants of the land who had
survived the first onslaught, in order that they might make use of farmers to cultivate their
new possessions. In most cases they did not make slaves of them, but tributaries; and after
the land had been portioned evenly among the soldiers of the invading host, the original holders
of the land tilled it themselves, under a system somewhat kindred to the metayer system as
to-day existent in Tuscany and elsewhere, paying, according to the usual custom adopted by
the northern conquerors of Italy, one-third of the produce[1] to their new masters. The whole
organization of society was on a purely military basis; the soldiers of the conquering army,
although they became landed proprietors, none the less retained their character and name of
soldiers. Hence when these crude forms of social life began to crystallize into the carefully
marked ranks of the feudal system, the "milites"[2] formed the order of gentlemen, the smaller
feudatories, who gave land in fief to their vassals--generally the old inhabitants--while holding
their own nominally from the "duces," or dukes, the representatives of their former leaders
in war, who held their tenure direct from the king or chief.

As the object of this paper is particularly to trace the origin and early sources of municipal
life in Northern Italy, let us turn and see what were the effects on the already existing towns,
of the inroads of these hordes of northern barbarians. At the outset I must state emphatically
that all our sources of information as to the institutional history of this obscure period
are exceedingly vague, meagre and unsatisfactory. The progress of events we can follow with
more or less accuracy from the mazy writings of the early chroniclers; we can get a fair idea
of the judicial and the legislative acts of the ruling powers by studying and comparing the
different codes of laws that have come down to us; but in a study of the internal municipal
life of these early ages, the student meets again and again with increasing discouragement,
and soon finds himself almost hopelessly lost in a tangle of doubts and inferences.

In the almost total want of direct evidence, from casual mention gleaned from the writings
of the chroniclers, and from occasional references in the law codes to municipal offices and
regulations, enough indirect evidence must be sought, to enable us, by the aid of our powers
of reasoning, if not of our imagination, to build up some history, defective though it be,
of municipal life, down to the time when the internal growth and importance of the cities rendered
them sufficiently prominent political factors to have their deeds and their progress chronicled.
Besides, if we consider the modes by which the communes slowly rose to independence, it will
easily be seen that to have every step of this slow and almost secret advance chronicled and
given to the world, would have been entirely contrary to the policy of the cities. These hoped
to gain by the neglect of their rulers, and while clinging pertinaciously to every privilege
ever legally granted, to claim new ones constantly, putting forth as their sole legal title
that slippery claim of precedent and time-honored custom. In that age, books of reference to
prove such claims would have been found alike inconvenient and unnecessary. All the city folks
wished was to be forgotten and ignored by their superiors, as any notice vouchsafed them was
sure to come only in the restraint of some assumed privilege or the curtailing of some coveted
right.

Hence the principal cause of the poverty of record through all this period of slow if steady
growth; and the disappointed investigator must in some measure console himself with such a
reason. It may be asked, what of the various local histories of different towns, whose authors
seldom fail to give highflown accounts of their native cities, even in the remotest and darkest
ages of their history? To this question there is a double answer: in the first place the uttermost
caution must be enjoined in using such material; not only in separating fact from baseless
tradition of a much later period, but in making large allowance for the heavy strain which
a strong feeling of local patriotism, or civism, puts upon the conscience of the author. In
the second place it must be remembered that most of such histories, or at least of the monkish
or other records from which they derive their source and most of their material, were written
to the glory or under the auspices of some dominant noble family or ecclesiastical institution,
to whose laudation in ages past and present the humble author devotes all the resources of
his mind, and I am afraid far too often of his imagination.

Let us now cast a glance at the exhausted civilization of the towns of Northern Italy, where
the formal shell of Roman organization still remained, after the vigor and life which had produced
it had long been destroyed. To describe the condition of the Roman municipia at the time of
the Teutonic invasions is but to tell a part of the story of the fall of the Roman Empire.
The municipal system, which from the names and duties of its officers would seem to represent
a surprising amount of local independence in matters of administration, even a collection of
small almost free republics, had lost all its strength and all its vital power by the grinding
exactions of a centralized despotism, which was compelled to support its declining power by
strengthening the very forces which were working its destruction, at the expense of destroying
those from which it should have gained its strength. The stability of every state rests ultimately
on the wealth and character of its citizens, and any government which exhausts the one and
degrades the other in an effort to maintain its own unlimited power has its days numbered.
Under the despotic rule of the later emperors the municipalities had lost all their power,
though in theory their rights were unassailed. The curia could elect its magistrates as of
old, and these magistrates could legislate for the municipium, but by a single word the imperial
delegate could annul the choice of the one and the acts of the other.

The economic condition of the people amounted to little short of bankruptcy; the possession
of wealth, in landed property especially, having become but a burden to be avoided, and a source
of exaction rather than of satisfaction to the owner. The inequalities of burdens and of rank
were great. The citizens were divided into three classes: (1) the privileged classes, (2) the
Curials, (3) the common people. The first, freely speaking, were those who had in a manner
succeeded in detaching themselves from the interests of the municipium to which they belonged;
such were the members of the Senate, including all with the indefinite title of clarissimi,
the soldiers, the clergy, the public magistrates as distinguished from the municipal officers.
The second consisted of all citizens of a town, whether natives--municipes--or settlers--incolae--who
possessed landed property of more than twenty-five jugera, and did not belong to any privileged
class: both these classes were hereditary. The third, of all free citizens whose poverty debarred
them from belonging to either of the preceding divisions. On the second of these classes, the
Curials, fell all the grinding burdens of the state, the executing of municipal duties, and
the exactions of the central government.

It is not necessary for me to trace here the development of that financial policy which resulted
in the ruin, I may say the annihilation of this order. Suffice it to say that it formed the
capital fund of the government which exhausted it, and when the source of supply was destroyed,
production ceased, and with it, of course, all means of governmental support. Where the extinction
of this "middle class" touches the point of our inquiry is in affording an explanation of a
circumstance in the history of the Lombard subjugation of the Italian towns, which without
consideration of this fact would appear almost incomprehensible. I refer to the utter passivity
of the inhabitants, not only in the matter of resistance to attack, which the greater strength
and courage of the invaders perhaps rendered useless, but in what is more surprising, the fact
that after the easy conquest was completed, we hear nothing of the manner in which the people
adapted themselves to the totally new condition of life and of government to which they were
subjected. Even if we can understand hearing nothing of what the people did, at least we should
expect to hear what was done with it, what it became. The story of its resistance might be
short and soon forgotten, but the story of its sufferings, of its complaints, of struggle against
the entire change in the order and character of its life, should be a long one.

But of this no record, hardly mention even appears. When the central government falls and the
last of its legions are destroyed or have departed, there seems to be no thought of any other
element in society. If the evidence of the law codes did not tell us that a Roman population
existed, history would record little to indicate its presence. Not only is even the slightest
trace of nationality effaced, but the merging of the old conditions of life into the new seems
of too little consequence to merit even an allusion. This state of affairs, as said above,
is caused by the annihilation, by the despotic power of the central government, of that middle
class which in times of prosperity formed the sinews of the state. Of the other classes, the
privileged class, with the exception of the clergy, fell of course with the government which
supported it, and the common people possessed no individuality, no power, and hardly any rights.
Such, then, was the condition of the towns at the time of the Lombard invasion, a condition
of such abasement and such degradation as literally to have no history; a condition which indeed
can truthfully be said to merit none.

History tells the story of every great nation on the face of the earth in three short words,
growth, supremacy, decline. Vary the theme as you may in the countless histories of countless
peoples; subdivide the course of its progress as you will, allowing for different local causes
and different local phenomena, the true philosophy of history teaches that no real departure
from this natural development is possible. But what if by the violent intervention of some
new and entirely foreign force, another development and another life is given to the inanimate
ashes of the old? What if some nation, fresh from the woods and fields of the childhood of
its growth, come with overwhelming yet preserving strength and infuse new blood into the withered
veins of its predecessor? This is the problem we now have before us. How many writers of Italian
history have entitled this chapter in its development "A new Italian Nation formed"! It is
not the old glories of Rome, which had been Italy, returning; it is a new Italian nation formed.
Each word tells a story of its own. It is not the old galvanized to a second life; it is the
new superimposed, violently if you will, upon it. We do not hear of Athens or of Rome, of an
Alexander or of a Caesar, of a city or of a man. It is an "Italian nation." It is the individualism
of the independent spirit of the North, which "forms" a nation from the exhausted remains of
the development of centralization of the South. The new idea of distinct nationality among
races of kindred stock was already at work, even though it did not reach a formal expression
till the Treaty of Verdun, more than two hundred and fifty years later.

I do not mean to imply that we must in any measure ignore the passive force and influence of
the old forms on the new. The old veins receive the new blood; the new torrent, overrunning
everything at first with the strength of its new life, will find again, even if it deepen,
the channel of the old river: a vanquished civilization will always subdue and at the same
time raise its barbarous conquerors, if they come of a stock capable of appreciating civilizing
influences. In the present case this means that the men of the North brought the new ideas
that were to form modern history, and let their growth be directed and assisted, while they
were yet too young to stand alone, by some of the framework which had been built up by the
long experience of their Southern neighbors.

To focus this thought on the immediate subject of our present study, this I think is the only
and true solution of the tedious question, so much discussed by the two opposing schools of
thought: whether the government of the Italian communes was purely Roman in its forms and in
its conception, or purely Teutonic. The supporters of neither theory can be said to be in the
right. You cannot say that the average city government was entirely Roman or entirely Teutonic,
either in the laws which guided it, or in the channels by which these laws were executed and
expressed. I think much time and much learning have been spent on a discussion both fruitless
and unnecessary. We cannot err if we subject the question to a consideration at once critical
and impartial.

The widely differing opinions eagerly supported by different writers on this point, form a
very good example of the deceiving influence of national feeling on the judgment in matters
of historical criticism. For, on the one hand, we find many German writers ignoring entirely
the old framework of Roman organization, and recognizing only the new Teutonic life which gave
back to it the strength it had lost; on the other, a host of lesser Italian writers who magnify
certain old names and forms, and mistake them for the substance, making all the new life of
Italy but the return of a past, which belonged to a greatness that was dead. Many there are
of this school in Italy, where you will often find to-day a commune of three hundred inhabitants,
with its one or two constables wearing the imperial badge, "Senatus Populusque Albanensis"
or "Verulensis," as the case may be. Truly a suggestive anachronism! It is true that in remote
ages especially, when the records of history are few and uncertain--and the period we are considering
in this paper can almost be called the prehistoric age of municipal institutions in Northern
Italy--much can be learned and much truth inferred from the evidence of a name. But this is
a species of evidence we can never be too cautious in using, as the temptation is always to
infer too much rather than too little.

In the following pages I will try to sift the evidence obtainable, with the impartiality of
one trammeled by the support of no particular theory; always bearing in mind, however, one
fact, all-important in a study where so much depends on nomenclature, namely, to give that
shade of meaning and that amount of weight to any term which it possessed in the age in which
it was used, carefully distinguishing this from its use in any earlier or later age. The importance
of this caution will be soon seen when we come to discuss the origin of corporate life in the
communes, where many have been misled by attaching to the words respublica and civitas, for
example, so continually recurring in the old laws and charters, a meaning which was entirely
foreign to the terms at the period of their use. With this warning, we will turn to a consideration
of the first effects of the inroad of the northern barbarians on the cities, whose exhausted
and defenseless state has already been pointed out.

One of the chief characteristics of the Teutonic tribes which overran Italy during the fifth
and sixth centuries, was an innate hatred of cities, of enclosing walls and crowded habitations.
Children of the field and the forest, they had their village communities and their hundreds,
their common land and their allotted land, but these were small restrictions on their free
life, and left an extended "air-space" for each individual and his immediate household. Homestead
was not too near homestead, each man being separated from his neighbor by the extent of half
the land belonging to each. The centralization of population in city life was a thing undreamed
of, and an idea abhorred, alike for its novelty and for the violence it did to the as yet untrained
instincts of the people. The strong, independent individualism of the Teutonic freeman rebelled
against anything which would in any way limit his freedom of action: "ne pati quidem inter
se junctas sedes," says Tacitus.[3] An agriculturist in his rude way, he lived on the land
which supported him and his family, and feeling no further need, his untrained intelligence
could form no conception of the necessities and the advantages of the social union and interdependence
of a more civilized state of society; nor could he comprehend the mutual relations of the individual
to the immediate community in which he lived.

He could understand his own relation to and dependence on the state as a whole; alone he could
not repel the attacks of neighboring tribes, alone he could not go forth to conquer new lands
or increase the number of his herds. But why he should associate with others and so limit the
freedom which was his birthright, for other purposes than those of attack and defense, of electing
a leader for war, or getting his allotment of land in peace, was altogether beyond the horizon
of his comprehension. He was sufficient unto himself for all the purposes of his daily life;
to the product of his own plough and hunting-spear he looked for the maintenance of himself
and his family, and the loose organization which we may call the state existed simply so as
to enable him to live in comparative peace, or gain advantage in war--perhaps the first example
of the new power in state-craft which was to revolutionize the political principles of the
world; the individual lived no longer simply to support the state, but the state existed solely
to protect and aid the individual.

If all this be true of the Teutonic nations in general, in the earlier stages of their development,
particularly true is it of the Lombards,[4] a wild tribe of the Suevic stock, whose few appearances
in history, previous to their invasion of Italy, are connected only with the fiercest strife
and the rudest forms of barbarism. History seems to have proved that tradition has maligned
the Vandal; the Goth can boast a ruler raised at the centre of Eastern civilization and refinement;
but the Lombard of the invasion can never appear as other than the rude barbarian rushing from
his wild northern home, and forcing on a defenseless people the laws and the customs suited
to his own rugged nature and the unformed state of society in which he lived.

Such being the case, there is little cause for wonder that the invading Lombard directed his
fury with particular violence against the corporate towns, whose strength was not sufficient
to resist the attacks of his invading host. Like all other Teutonic tribes the Lombards were
entirely unskilled in the art of attacking fortified towns; hence the only mode of siege with
which they were acquainted was that of starving out the inhabitants, by cutting off all source
of supply by ravaging and destroying the surrounding country. This fact, unimportant as it
may seem at the first glance, materially affected the whole course of the later history of
some of the Italian cities. By this means we are enabled, even at this early epoch, to divide
them into two classes. First, those cities which, after a more or less short resistance, yielded
to the rude tactics of the barbarians and were made subject by them, for example Milan and
Pavia.[5] Second, those cities like Venice and Ravenna,[6] which, by means of a connection
with the sea which the invaders could not cut off, were enabled to gain supplies by water,
and so resist all efforts of the besieging host to capture them. They never fell completely
under the Lombard yoke, and either retained a sort of partial autonomy or yielded allegiance
to some other power. It is the cities of the former class that are the subject of this investigation.

The condition of these inland towns at the time of the invasion was, as we have seen, weak
in the extreme. The defenses, where they existed, were of a character to afford little protection,
and the bulk of the inhabitants were so enervated from a life of poverty and oppression that
they were almost incapable of offering any resistance in their own defense. They were reduced
to such a condition as to be only too grateful if their rough conquerors, after an easy victory,
disdainfully spared their lives, and left them to occupy their dismantled dwellings.

This seems to have been the almost universal method of procedure. The Lombards did not in any
sense, at first, think of occupying the conquered cities; for the reasons already given they
despised, because they could not yet comprehend, the life of the civilian. They contented themselves
with pulling down the walls, razing the fortifications, and destroying every mark which would
make of the city anything but an aggregate of miserable dwellings. The inhabitants were for
the most part spared, and left to enjoy, if the term can be used for such an existence, what
the conquerors did not think worth the having. These felt the fruits of their victory to lie
in the rich arable lands of the surrounding plains, and here they settled down, each in his
own holding, portioned out by lot to every soldier; the town being considered but as a part
of the civitas or district, if I may use the term, of the dux or overlord, from whom the several
milites, or landholders of the surrounding territory, had their tenure, and who himself held
directly from the king.

It is the very insignificance of the municipal unit at this time that makes it so difficult
to determine anything accurate of its position. It existed, but little more can be said of
it; indeed, even this statement might be questioned, if we make that term signify a corporate
existence, as will be seen further on when we come to discuss the question of the unbroken
corporate existence of the towns. In a feudal age, or in an age of incipient feudalism, obligation,
either claimed from an inferior or yielded to a superior, is a good index of rank and importance.
Until we find the cities fulfilling certain obligations required by a higher power, we can
learn little to tell of their condition or of their internal history. On the other hand, when
we find the time come for fulfilling certain obligations, we can safely argue that the cities
have acquired certain functions which put them in a position to meet the obligations which
their growing importance has caused to be exacted of them. To trace these steps accurately
and satisfactorily is impossible, but by the aid of collateral evidence a rough idea of the
epochs at least of their progress can be gained.

For this first period, then, we see the towns reduced to the lowest depths of wretchedness
and disintegration; critically speaking hardly existing, but simply holding together. In studying
institutions and tracing the course of their development, we must always remember that the
uninterrupted continuance of their history may depend as much on the moral force of their existence
as on the more limited and defined fact of their accurate and legal recognition by others.
In every society a state of fact must in time become a state of law, as wise legislation is
more the recognition by law of existing conditions than the formulating of new codes. So the
towns, even at the period immediately succeeding their conquest by the Lombards, though their
corporate existence cannot be claimed, nevertheless cannot be said in any measure to have ceased
to exist; for as collections of individuals and of dwellings they were there, with an individuality
uneffaced though as yet unrecognized.

