As we had feared, the rebel authorities, whether through suspected treachery or otherwise,
got wind of our purpose. Towards evening of October 14th extraordinary vigilance on their part
became apparent. Troops were paraded, posts strengthened, guards doubled, privileges restricted,
and word was passed around in our hearing that a battalion of Confederates had just arrived.
Their watchfulness seemed unrelaxed through the night. The shooting of Lieutenant Davis next
morning was doubtless in obedience to orders for a more rigorous enforcement of rules.

Our outbreak was countermanded and postponed, but preparations continued. The delay enabled
us to perfect our plans, and make our organizations more complete. The early morning of October
20th, the 19th being the anniversary of my birth, was now fixed upon for the "insurrection."
We essayed to disarm suspicion by an air of quiet acquiescence in the lazy routine of prison
life, or absorption in the simplest and most innocent occupations whenever any Confederate
might be looking on.

We recognized united and instantaneous action at the signal on the part of three hundred officers
and several thousand men as the most vitally important element of success. It was necessary
that this should be thoroughly understood and emphasized, so that every soldier should be in
perfect readiness at the critical moment.

Several of us had formed a class for oral instruction in French. Our teacher was Captain Cook
of the 9th U. S. colored troops, a graduate of Yale. About ten o'clock in the morning of October
18th, as we were seated on the ground near house number four, loudly imitating Professor Cook's
parlez-vous, Lieut. Wm. C. Gardner, adjutant of one of those extemporized battalions of prisoners,
brought me a letter he was intending to throw across the "dead line" to Sergt. Wallace W. Smith,
requesting him to notify all enlisted men of the battalion when and where to assemble silently
next morning in the dark, how to arm themselves, from whom to take orders, what signal to watch
for, and other important matters. I glanced through it, and immediately said: "You'd better
not entrust the communication to so hazardous a channel; wait an hour till I've done with my
French lesson, and I'll cause it to be transmitted by the deaf-and-dumb alphabet." If I recollect
rightly, either Lieutenant Tobey or Lieutenant Morton, both of the 58th Massachusetts, was
in the class, and promised to convey the contents of the letter safely across to the soldiers
by adroit finger manipulation. We were just finishing the French exercise, when Adjutant Gardner
came greatly excited, and this conversation followed:

"Good God, Colonel, the rebs have got that letter! I tied it to a stone and flung it a long
ways over the 'dead line' to Wallace Smith. He appeared afraid to pick it up. A reb sentinel
stepped away from his beat and got it."

"I requested you to wait till I'd done reciting French, and I told you I'd then communicate
it by the deaf-and-dumb alphabet."

"Well, Colonel, I ought to have done so; but I was anxious to have the work done promptly,
and I thought it was perfectly safe. I've tossed letters over to Smith several times. I'm worried
to death about it. What's best to do?"

"Was your name signed to it?"

"No; but my name was on the envelope--an old letter envelope that I had when we came here."

"Well, Gardner, this is a pretty piece of business! That letter of course will go very soon
to Major Gee's headquarters, and then--there'll be the devil to pay!"

"The sentinel handed the letter to the officer of the guard. What had I better say, if they
send for me?"

"Say you intended the letter to fall into their hands; that you meant it as a practical joke,
wanted to get up another scare, and see the Johnnies prick up their ears again."

"But, Colonel, like a fust-class fool I put a ten-dollar Confederate bill in the envelope.
I wanted to give it to Sergeant Smith. That don't look as if I meant it to fall into their
hands--does it?"

"Gardner, this thing has an ugly look. You've knocked our plans of escape in the head--at least
for the present. You've got yourself into a fix. They'll haul you up to headquarters. They'll
prove by the letter that you've been deep in a plot that would have cost a good many lives.
They're feeling ugly. They may hang or shoot you before sundown, as a warning to the rest of
us to stop these plots to escape. They may send for you at any minute."

"What had I better say or do?"

"You'd better make yourself scarce for a while, till you've got a plausible story made up.
Better disguise yourself and pass yourself off as somebody else; so gain time."

"I have it, Colonel; I'll pass myself off as Estabrooks."

Estabrooks was an officer of the 26th Mass., who had escaped at the crossing of the river Yadkin
two weeks previously when we came from Richmond. Gardner was a handsome man and perhaps the
best-dressed officer in prison; but he now disguised himself.[6] The transformation was complete.
In half an hour a man came to me wearing a slouched hat and a very ragged suit of Confederate
gray. He had been a play-actor before the war and knew how to conceal his identity. By his
voice I recognized him as Gardner! "Well, Gardner," said I, "this surpasses His Satanic Majesty;
or, as you would say, beats the devil!"--"Colonel," he replied, "I'm not Gardner. Gardner escaped;
escaped at the crossing of the Yadkin River. I'm Estabrooks, H. L. Estabrooks, 2d Lieutenant,
26th Mass. Call me Estabrooks if you please."--"All right, Estabrooks it is."

Hardly had we had time to whisper around this change of name, when the Confederate officer
of the guard made his appearance with two or three soldiers, inquiring for the commissary of
house number four. I was pointed out to him. In substance and almost in the exact words this
dialogue ensued:

"Colonel Sprague, are you commissary of this house?"

"I have that honor."

"I want to find Lieutenant Gardner."

"Who?"

"Lieutenant Gardner."

"Who's Lieutenant Gardner?"

"I am told he's an officer in house number four; and as you are commissary, you can probably
tell me where he is at."

"Where he's what?"

"Where he's at."

This was the first time I had ever heard the word at so used at the end of a sentence; but
it expresses the meaning with admirable precision. I had a slight qualm at lying; but I remembered
that even George Washington could tell a lie if necessary in war. Pacifying my conscience with
the fact that we were outside the house at the time, I said:

"There's no such officer in house four. But I remember an officer of that name at Libby, handsomely
dressed, a perfect dandy. I heard that he escaped at the crossing of the Yadkin River two weeks
ago. Has he been recaptured, and is he going to be shot or hanged? Or have you a letter for
him? What's the good news about Gardner?"

"I only know," he replied, "that he's wanted at Major Gee's office, and he's an officer in
house number four."

"Estabrooks," said I to the man at my side, "do you know of a Lieutenant Gardner?"

"I did know slightly such a man at Libby. You have described him well; a fop, a beau, a dandy;
just about my size, but he didn't wear rags like I do."

"Come with me," said I to the Confederate. "We'll go into the house and inquire if any one
knows of a Lieutenant Gardner." We went in. There were perhaps thirty or forty inside who had
got wind of what was going on. As we entered, I asked in a loud voice, "Does any officer in
this house know anything of a Lieutenant Gardner?" Several smiled and declared it a very singular
name. One wanted to know how it was spelled! A number were speaking at once. One said he escaped
at the Yadkin; he knew he got away, for he "watched him till he got a long distance out of
sight." Another knew a Henry J. Gardner, "a Know-Nothing" governor of Massachusetts, who knew
enough to keep out of the army. Another affirmed that Gardner was dead; he had heard him say
"I'm a dead man," and he wouldn't tell a lie! My memory is somewhat indistinct of all that
was said; but Gardner is alleged to have whispered the officer thus: "I have been a gardener
myself; and if Major Gee will parole me and give me good clothes and something to eat, I wouldn't
mind becoming again a gardener in his employ." I recollect distinctly that the officer grew
impatient and he finally asked me, "Do you say on your honor, Colonel, that you don't know
a Lieut. Wm. O. Gardner in this house?" I answered, "I do"; but I left him to guess whether
I meant "I do know" or "I do say!" I quieted my conscientious scruples by remembering that
the lieutenant's true name was not Wm. O. but Wm. C.! The baffled officer left very angry,
and "Where's Gardner at?" passed into a conundrum.

Late that afternoon, as I was engaged in the delightful employment of washing my fall-and-winter
shirt, having for the first time since our arrival in Salisbury obtained sufficient water for
that purpose, the order came for all officers to fall in and take the cars for Danville, Va.
The juxtaposition of three or four hundred Yankee officers with eight thousand of their enlisted
comrades-in-arms was getting dangerous.

FOOTNOTES:

[5] He had killed three men with his sword at the time of his capture.

[6] "We run the boy into one of the houses, clipped his hair, shaved him, and placed a new
robe on him."--Letter of Capt. Wesley C. Howe to Colonel Sprague, Jan. 30, 1914.

At six o'clock, Wednesday evening, October 19, 1864, we officers, about 350 in number, were
packed in five freight cars, and the train was started for Danville, Va. The tops of the cars
were covered with armed guards, two or three being also stationed within at the side door of
each car. In the darkness about half-past nine Lieut. Joseph B. Simpson of the 11th Indiana
slyly stole all the food from the haversacks of the guards at the door of our car and passed
it round to us, while we loudly "cussed and discussed" slavery and secession! About midnight
Captain Lockwood, Lieutenant Driscoll, and eight or ten other officers leaped from the cars.
The guards opened fire upon them. Lockwood was shot dead. Several were recaptured, and some
probably reached the Union lines in safety. We arrived at Danville at noon October 20th.

The town at this time contained four, formerly six, military prisons, each a tobacco house
about eighty to a hundred feet long by forty to fifty wide, three stories high, built of brick,
low between joints. The officers were put into the building known as prison number three. We
were informed by the guards that it had formerly contained about two hundred negro prisoners;
but that some had died, others had been delivered to their masters or set at work on fortifications,
and the number remaining just before our arrival was only sixty-four. These were removed to
make room for us.

Except about twenty large stout wooden boxes called spittoons, there was no furniture whatever
in prison number three. Conjecture was rife as to the purpose of the Confederates in supplying
us with spittoons and nothing else. They were too short for coffins, too large for wash bowls,
too shallow for bathing tubs, too deep for tureens! To me much meditating on final causes,
a vague suspicion at length arose that there was some mysterious relation between those twenty
oblong boxes and a score of hogsheads of plug tobacco, said to be stored in the basement. A
tertium QUID, a solution of the tobacco, might afford a solution of the spittoon mystery!

A dozen water buckets were put into each of the two upper rooms to which all the officers were
restricted; also a small cylinder coal stove; nothing else until December, when another small
stove was placed there. Winter came early and unusually cold. The river Dan froze thick. It
was some weeks before we prevailed upon the prison commandant to replace with wood the broken-out
glass in the upper rooms. The first floor was uninhabitable.

So with no bed nor blanket; no chairs, benches, nor tables; no table-ware nor cooking utensils;
not even shovel, poker, or coal-scoop; most of us were in a sorry plight. The little stoves,
heated white-hot, would have been entirely inadequate to warm those rooms; but the coal was
miserably deficient in quality as well as quantity. The fire often went out. To rekindle it,
there was no other way than to upset the whole, emptying ashes and cinders on the floor. At
best, the heat was obstructed by a compact ring of shivering officers, who had preëmpted positions
nearest the stoves. They had taken upon themselves to "run" the thing; and they did it well.
We called them "The Stove Brigade." In spite of their efforts, they like the rest suffered
from cold.

Three or four of us, as a sanitary measure, made it a point to see, if possible, the funny,
or at least the bright side of everything, turn melancholy to mirth, shadow to sunshine. When
every officer complained of cold, we claimed to anticipate the philosophers, Tyndall, Huxley,
and the other physicists, in declaring that "heat is a mode of motion," and brisk bodily exercise
will infallibly demonstrate the fact! When, as was usually the case, all were hungry, we announced
as a sure cure for indigestion, "stop eating!" When our prisoner chaplain Emerson on a Sunday
afternoon prayed for the dear ones we expected to see no more, and even the roughest and most
profane were in tears, we said with old Homer, "Agathoi aridakrues andres" ("Gallant men are
easily moved to tears"), or with Bayard Taylor, "The bravest are the tenderest, the loving
are the daring."

Most humiliating of all was the inevitable plague of vermin. "Hard indeed," one officer was
accustomed to say, "must have been Pharaoh's heart, and tougher yet his epidermis, if the lice
of the third Egyptian plague were like those of Danville, and yet he would not 'let Israel
go.'" Wearing the same clothing night and day, sitting on the bare floors, sleeping there in
contact with companions not over-nice, no patient labor, no exterminating unguent, afforded
much relief. We lost all squeamishness, all delicacy on the subject, all inclination for concealment.
It was not a returned Danville prisoner who was reported to have gone into a drug store in
New York stealthily scratching and saying, "I want some unguentum; don't want it for myself;
only want it for a friend." But it was reported and believed that in April one of them entered
an apothecary shop in Annapolis plying his finger-nails and hurriedly asking, "Have you any
bmsquintum?"--"From your manner," answered the courteous druggist, "I think what you want is
unguentum."--"Yes, run git 'em; I guess that is the true name."--"Unguentum, sir"; said the
shopkeeper. "How much unguentum do you want?"--"Well, I reckon about two pound!"--"My dear
sir, two pounds would kill all the lice in Maryland."--"Well, I vow I believe I've got 'em!"

Lieut.-Col. Robert C. Smith of Baltimore, who took command of the Danville prisons soon after
our arrival, appeared to be kind-hearted, compassionate, but woefully destitute of what Mrs.
Stowe calls "faculty." He was of medium height, spare build, fair complexion, sandy hair, blue
eyes, of slightly stooping figure; on the whole rather good-looking. He was slow of speech,
with a nasal twang that reminded me of Dr. Horace Bushnell. His face always wore a sad expression.
He had been a student at Yale in the forties a few years before me. Once a prisoner himself
in our hands and fairly treated, he sympathized with us. He had been wounded, shot through
the right shoulder. When I visited on parole the other Danville prisons in February, a Yankee
soldier was pointed out to me as wearing Colonel Smith's blood-stained coat, and another was
said to be wearing his vest. I had repeated interviews with him, in which he expressed regret
at not being able to make us more comfortable. He said more than once to me, "I have no heart
for this business. It requires a man without any heart to keep a military prison. I have several
times asked to be relieved and sent to the front." An officer of forceful executive ability
might have procured for us lumber for benches, more coal or wood for the stoves, some straw
or hay for bedding, blankets or cast-off clothing for the half naked; possibly a little food,
certainly a supply of reading matter from the charitably disposed. Single instances of his
compassion I have mentioned. I shall have occasion to speak of another. But the spectacle of
the hopeless mass of misery in the four Danville prisons seemed to render him powerless, if
not indifferent. As Mrs. Browning puts it:

                            A red-haired child,
    Sick in a fever, if you touch him once,
    Though but so little as with a finger-tip,
    Will set you weeping; but a million sick!
    You could as soon weep for the rule of three,
    Or compound fractions!

Like too many officers both Union and Confederate, he was often in liquor; liquor was always
in him. This "knight of the rueful countenance," of the sad heart, the mourning voice, the
disabled right arm, and the weakness for apple-jack!--his only hope was to have an exchange
of prisoners; but Lincoln and Stanton and Grant would not consent to that. The last I heard
of him was when a letter of his was shown me by Lieutenant Washington, a Confederate, a distant
relative of the great George. In it Smith, who had been absent a week from Danville, complained
that he had had "no liquor for three days," and that he was "painfully sober"!

"Necessity," says the old apothegm, "is the mother of invention." It was surprising, how much
we accomplished in a few weeks towards making ourselves comfortable. Bone or wood was carved
into knives, forks, spoons, buttons, finger-rings, masonic or army badges, tooth-picks, bosom
pins, and other ornaments; corn-cobs were made into smoking pipes; scraps of tin or sheet-iron
were fashioned into plates for eating or dishes for cooking; shelves were made by tying long
wood splinters together; and many "spittoons," which were soon rendered superfluous, because
the two entire rooms were transformed into vast spittoons, were inverted, and made useful as
seats which we called sofas.

Many ingeniously wrought specimens of Yankee ingenuity were sold clandestinely to the rebel
guards, who ventured to disobey strict orders. No skinflint vender of wooden nutmegs, leather
pumpkin-seeds, horn gunflints, shoe-peg oats, huckleberry-leaf tea, bass-wood cheeses, or white-oak
hams, ever hankered more for a trade. Besides the products of our prison industry, they craved
watches, rings, gold chains, silver spurs, gilt buttons, genuine breast-pins, epaulets; anything
that was not manufactured in the Confederacy. Most of all, they longed for greenbacks in exchange
for rebel currency. So in one way or another many of us contrived to get a little money of
some sort. With it we could buy of the sutler, who visited us from time to time, rice, flour,
beans, bacon, onions, dried apple, red peppers, sorghum syrup, vinegar, etc.

Perhaps the best result of our engaging in handicraft work was the relief from unspeakable
depression of spirits. Some of us saw the importance of making diversion on a large scale.
To this end we planned to start a theatre. Major Wm. H. Fry, of the 16th Pa. Cavalry, who knew
all about vaudeville in Philadelphia, was a wise adviser. Young Gardner, who had been an actor,
heartily joined in the movement. I procured a worn-out copy of Shakespeare. It seemed best
to begin with the presentation of the first act in Hamlet. Colonel Smith and other rebel officers
promised to aid us. We assigned the parts and commenced studying and rehearsing. Gardner was
to be Hamlet; Lieut.-Col. Theodore Gregg, 45th Pa., was to be Claudius, the usurping king;
the smooth-faced Capt. William Cook was to be the queen-mother Gertrude; Capt. W. F. Tiemann,
159th N. Y., was to personate Marcellus; Lieut. C. H. Morton of Fairhaven, Mass., I think,
was Horatio; and I, having lost about forty pounds of flesh since my capture--it was thought
most appropriate that I should be the Ghost! Every morning for some weeks on the empty first
floor we read and rehearsed, and really made fine progress. But when we got ready to produce
in theatric style, with slight omissions, the first act, the rebels seemed suspicious of some
ulterior design. They refused to furnish a sword for Hamlet, a halberd for Marcellus, muskets
for Bernardo and Francisco, a calico gown for the queen, or even a white shirt for the Ghost.
This was discouraging. When the lovely queen-mother Gertrude appealed to her son--

    Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted color off,--

he answered, "I swear I can't do it!" One November morning, as we were rehearsing and shivering
on the windy first floor, he ejaculated with some emphasis, and with ungentle expletives not
found in the original text,

    The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold;

"I move, Colonel, that we 'bust up' this theatre." So the "legitimate drama" vanished from
Danville.

About this time my copy of the Greek New Testament was stolen from me, an instance, perhaps,
of piety run mad.

A week or two before this, the lower room, in which I then lodged, containing about a hundred
and seventy officers, was getting into such a condition that I felt it my duty to call a meeting
to see what measures could be adopted to promote comfort and decency. I was not the senior
in rank, but Colonel Carle did not feel himself authorized to issue orders. Some sort of government
must be instituted at once. Nearly all recognized the necessity of prompt action and strict
discipline. A committee was appointed consisting of myself, Major John W. Byron, 88th N. Y.,
and another officer whose name escapes me, to draw up rules and regulations. We presented the
following:

    RULES UNANIMOUSLY ADOPTED IN THE LOWER ROOM,
    DANVILLE, VA., PRISON, OCT. 26, 1864:

    1. The room shall be thoroughly policed (swept, etc.) four times
        each day by the messes in succession; viz., at sunrise and
        sunset, and immediately after breakfast and dinner.

    2. There shall be no washing in this room.

    3. No emptying slops into spittoons.

    4. No washing in the soup buckets or water buckets.

    5. No shaking of clothes or blankets in this room.

    6. No cooking inside the stoves.

    7. No loitering in the yard to the inconvenience of others.

    8. No person shall be evidently filthy or infested with vermin.

    9. No indecent, profane, or ungentlemanly language in this room.

    10. No conduct unbecoming an officer and gentleman about these
        premises.

    11. No talking aloud at night after nine o'clock.

    12. An officer of the day shall be appointed daily by the senior
        officer, whose duty shall be to see that these rules are
        strictly enforced, and to report to the senior officer any
        violation thereof.

    13. In case of any alleged violation of any of these rules, the
        senior officer of the room shall appoint a Court[7] to consist
        of thirteen disinterested officers, who shall fairly try and
        determine the matter, and in case of conviction the offender's
        rations shall be stopped, or the commander of the prison be
        requested to confine the offender in a cell according to the
        sentence of the Court; and it shall be the duty of every officer
        to have such offender court-martialed after rejoining his
        command.

        For the Committee. H. B. Sprague, Oct, 26, 1864.

The prison commandant promised that he would execute any sentence short of capital punishment.
But one case was tried by such court. The offense was a gross violation of rule 9. The culprit
was let off with a sharp reprimand by General Hayes; but my first act after the exchange of
prisoners was to prefer charges and specifications against him. The beast was court-martialed
at Annapolis in the latter part of July, '65.

The observance of these rules wrought wonders in correcting evils which had become almost unendurable,
and in promoting cheerfulness, good behavior, and mutual esteem.

Many letters were written to us. Few of them reached their destination. The first I received
was from Miss Martha Russell, a lady of fine literary ability, a friend of Edgar A. Poe, living
at North Branford, Conn. In raising my company (Co. H., 13th Conn.), I had enlisted her brother
Alfred. Under strict military discipline he had become a valuable soldier, and I had appointed
him my first sergeant. At the battle of Irish Bend, La., in which I was myself wounded, he
was shot through the neck. The wound seemed mortal, but I secured special care for him, and
his life was spared as by miracle. His sister's letter brought a ray of sunshine to several
of us. It assured us that we were tenderly cared for at home.

A well-grounded conviction prevailed among the prisoners that the Confederate government was
anxious to secure an exchange of prisoners, but that the Federal government would not consent.
The reason was evident enough. The Confederate prisoners in the North, as a rule, were fit
for military duty; the Union prisoners in the South were physically unfit. A general exchange
would have placed at once, say, more than forty thousand fresh soldiers in the rebel ranks,
but very few in ours. Conscription for military service had been tried in the North with results
so bitter that it seemed unwise to attempt it again. Better let the unfortunates in southern
prisons perish in silence--that appeared the wisest policy. But to us prisoners it appeared
a mistake and gross neglect of duty. Between our keen sense of the wrong in allowing us to
starve, and our love for Lincoln and the Union, there was a struggle. Our patriotism was put
to the test on the day of the Presidential election, Tuesday, November 8th. Discouraging as
was the outlook for us personally, we had confidence in the government and in the justice of
our cause. Pains was taken to obtain a full and fair vote in the officers' prison. There were
two hundred seventy-six for Lincoln; ninety-one for McClellan. Under the circumstances the
result was satisfactory.

Very earnest, if not acrimonious, were the discussions that immediately preceded and followed.
Some of us realized their importance, not so much in arriving at a correct decision on the
questions at issue, as in preventing mental stagnation likely to result in imbecility if not
actual idiocy. By the stimulus of employment of some kind we must fight against the apathy,
the hopeless loss of will power, into which several of our comrades seemed sinking. Mrs. Browning
well says:

                        Get leave to work
    In this world,--'tis the best you get at all.
                    ... Get work; get work;
    Be sure 'tis better than what you work to get!

Some of us started historical debates, and new views were presented which furnished both amusement
and instruction. One colonel, more redoubtable in battle than in dialectics, who had been shot
through from breast to back, gravely informed us that the geometer Euclid was an early English
writer! A kindly visitor, Dr. Holbrook, made me a present of Hitchcock's Elementary Geology.
It was not quite up to date, having been published about twenty-five years before, but I found
the study interesting. Grieved at having lost from my books three years in military service,
I endeavored with three or four companions to make up for the deficiency by taking lessons
in French. Our teacher was Captain Cook, already mentioned as teaching us French at Salisbury.
As we had no books, the instruction was oral. I was delighted to observe how much a knowledge
of Latin facilitated the acquisition of the modern tongue. A few weeks later upon the arrival
of Major George Haven Putnam, Adjutant at that time of the 176th N. Y., several of us commenced
under him the study of German. Here too the teaching was oral; but I was able to buy Oehlschläger's
German Reader; took special pleasure in memorizing some of the selections, particularly from
the poets Gleim, Claudius, Goethe, Schiller, and Uhland; and I was already familiar with some
stanzas of Arndt's noble The German Fatherland, sung so often to me by my Lieutenant Meisner,
slain by my side in battle. Some of those songs still ring in my ears. General Hayes, Major
Putnam, and two or three others took lessons in Spanish from a native of Mexico, 2d Lieut.
John Gayetti (I think that was his name), of Battery B, 2d Pa. Artillery.

Checkerboards and chessboards were prepared from the rudest materials, and many were the games
with which some of our comrades sought to beguile the weary hours. Capt. Frank H. Mason of
the 12th Cavalry had the reputation of being our best chess player and young Adjutant Putnam
was his most persistent opponent.

No one needs to be told that old soldiers are great story-tellers, drawing upon their imagination
for facts. This talent was assiduously cultivated in our prison.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] See Appendix.

Our imprisonment at Danville lasted from October 20, '64, to February 17, '65, one hundred
and twenty days. I kept a careful daily record of the rations issued to us, as did also Lieut.
Watson W. Bush, 2d N. Y. "Mounted Rifles." After our removal from Danville to Richmond for
exchange, we compared our memoranda, and found they substantially agreed. During the one hundred
and twenty days the issues were as follows:

    Bread. A loaf every morning. It was made of unsifted corn-meal,
    ground "cobs and all." Pieces several inches in length of cobs
    unground were sometimes contained in it. It always seemed wholesome,
    though moist, almost watery. Its dimensions were a little less than
    7 inches long, 3 or 4 wide, and 3 thick. I managed to bring home a
    loaf, and we were amazed at the shrinkage to a quarter of its
    original size. It had become very hard. We broke it in two, and
    found inside what appeared to be a dishcloth!

    Meat. Forty-three times. I estimated the weight at from 2 to 5 or
    6 ounces. In it sometimes were hides, brains, heads, tails, jaws
    with teeth, lights, livers, kidneys, intestines, and nameless
    portions of the animal economy.

    Soup. Sixty-two times; viz., bean soup forty-seven times; cabbage
    nine times; gruel six. It was the thinnest decoction of small black
    beans, the slightest infusion of cabbage, or the most attenuated
    gruel of corn-cob meal, that a poetic imagination ever dignified
    with the name of soup!

    Potatoes. Seven times. Seldom was one over an inch in diameter.

    Salt fish. Five times. They call it "hake." It was good. "Hunger
    the best sauce."

    Sorghum syrup. Three times. It was known as "corn-stalk molasses."
    It was not bad.

