ALONZO FITZ

AND OTHER STORIES

by Mark Twain

Contents:

THE LOVES OF ALONZO FITZ CLARENCE AND ROSANNAH ETHELTON

ON THE DECAY OF THE ART OF LYING

ABOUT MAGNANIMOUS-INCIDENT LITERATURE

PUNCH, BROTHERS, PUNCH

THE GREAT REVOLUTION IN PITCAIRN

THE CANVASSER'S TALE

AN ENCOUNTER WITH AN INTERVIEWER

PARIS NOTES

LEGEND OF SAGENFELD, IN GERMANY

SPEECH ON THE BABIES

SPEECH ON THE WEATHER

CONCERNING THE AMERICAN LANGUAGE

ROGERS

THE LOVES OF ALONZO FITZ CLARENCE AND ROSANNAH ETHELTON

It was well along in the forenoon of a bitter winter's day. The town of Eastport, in the state
of Maine, lay buried under a deep snow that was newly fallen. The customary bustle in the streets
was wanting. One could look long distances down them and see nothing but a dead-white emptiness,
with silence to match. Of course I do not mean that you could see the silence--no, you could
only hear it. The sidewalks were merely long, deep ditches, with steep snow walls on either
side. Here and there you might hear the faint, far scrape of a wooden shovel, and if you were
quick enough you might catch a glimpse of a distant black figure stooping and disappearing
in one of those ditches, and reappearing the next moment with a motion which you would know
meant the heaving out of a shovelful of snow. But you needed to be quick, for that black figure
would not linger, but would soon drop that shovel and scud for the house, thrashing itself
with its arms to warm them. Yes, it was too venomously cold for snow-shovelers or anybody else
to stay out long.

Presently the sky darkened; then the wind rose and began to blow in fitful, vigorous gusts,
which sent clouds of powdery snow aloft, and straight ahead, and everywhere. Under the impulse
of one of these gusts, great white drifts banked themselves like graves across the streets;
a moment later another gust shifted them around the other way, driving a fine spray of snow
from their sharp crests, as the gale drives the spume flakes from wave-crests at sea; a third
gust swept that place as clean as your hand, if it saw fit. This was fooling, this was play;
but each and all of the gusts dumped some snow into the sidewalk ditches, for that was business.

Alonzo Fitz Clarence was sitting in his snug and elegant little parlor, in a lovely blue silk
dressing-gown, with cuffs and facings of crimson satin, elaborately quilted. The remains of
his breakfast were before him, and the dainty and costly little table service added a harmonious
charm to the grace, beauty, and richness of the fixed appointments of the room. A cheery fire
was blazing on the hearth.

A furious gust of wind shook the windows, and a great wave of snow washed against them with
a drenching sound, so to speak. The handsome young bachelor murmured:

"That means, no going out to-day. Well, I am content. But what to do for company? Mother is
well enough, Aunt Susan is well enough; but these, like the poor, I have with me always. On
so grim a day as this, one needs a new interest, a fresh element, to whet the dull edge of
captivity. That was very neatly said, but it doesn't mean anything. One doesn't want the edge
of captivity sharpened up, you know, but just the reverse."

He glanced at his pretty French mantel-clock.

"That clock's wrong again. That clock hardly ever knows what time it is; and when it does know,
it lies about it--which amounts to the same thing. Alfred!"

There was no answer.

"Alfred!... Good servant, but as uncertain as the clock."

Alonzo touched an electric bell button in the wall. He waited a moment, then touched it again;
waited a few moments more, and said:

"Battery out of order, no doubt. But now that I have started, I will find out what time it
is." He stepped to a speaking-tube in the wall, blew its whistle, and called, "Mother!" and
repeated it twice.

"Well, that's no use. Mother's battery is out of order, too. Can't raise anybody down-stairs--that
is plain."

He sat down at a rosewood desk, leaned his chin on the left-hand edge of it and spoke, as if
to the floor: "Aunt Susan!"

A low, pleasant voice answered, "Is that you, Alonzo?'

"Yes. I'm too lazy and comfortable to go downstairs; I am in extremity, and I can't seem to
scare up any help."

"Dear me, what is the matter?"

"Matter enough, I can tell you!"

"Oh, don't keep me in suspense, dear! What is it?"

"I want to know what time it is."

"You abominable boy, what a turn you did give me! Is that all?"

"All--on my honor. Calm yourself. Tell me the time, and receive my blessing."

"Just five minutes after nine. No charge--keep your blessing."

"Thanks. It wouldn't have impoverished me, aunty, nor so enriched you that you could live without
other means."

He got up, murmuring, "Just five minutes after nine," and faced his clock. "Ah," said he, "you
are doing better than usual. You are only thirty-four minutes wrong. Let me see... let me see....
Thirty-three and twenty-one are fifty-four; four times fifty-four are two hundred and thirty-six.
One off, leaves two hundred and thirty-five. That's right."

He turned the hands of his clock forward till they marked twenty-five minutes to one, and said,
"Now see if you can't keep right for a while--else I'll raffle you!"

He sat down at the desk again, and said, "Aunt Susan!"

"Yes, dear."

"Had breakfast?"

"Yes, indeed, an hour ago."

"Busy?"

"No--except sewing. Why?"

"Got any company?"

"No, but I expect some at half past nine."

"I wish I did. I'm lonesome. I want to talk to somebody."

"Very well, talk to me."

"But this is very private."

"Don't be afraid--talk right along, there's nobody here but me."

"I hardly know whether to venture or not, but--"

"But what? Oh, don't stop there! You know you can trust me, Alonzo--you know, you can."

"I feel it, aunt, but this is very serious. It affects me deeply--me, and all the family---even
the whole community."

"Oh, Alonzo, tell me! I will never breathe a word of it. What is it?"

"Aunt, if I might dare--"

"Oh, please go on! I love you, and feel for you. Tell me all. Confide in me. What is it?"

"The weather!"

"Plague take the weather! I don't see how you can have the heart to serve me so, Lon."

"There, there, aunty dear, I'm sorry; I am, on my honor. I won't do it again. Do you forgive me?"

"Yes, since you seem so sincere about it, though I know I oughtn't to. You will fool me again
as soon as I have forgotten this time."

"No, I won't, honor bright. But such weather, oh, such weather! You've got to keep your spirits
up artificially. It is snowy, and blowy, and gusty, and bitter cold! How is the weather with you?"

"Warm and rainy and melancholy. The mourners go about the streets with their umbrellas running
streams from the end of every whalebone. There's an elevated double pavement of umbrellas,
stretching down the sides of the streets as far as I can see. I've got a fire for cheerfulness,
and the windows open to keep cool. But it is vain, it is useless: nothing comes in but the
balmy breath of December, with its burden of mocking odors from the flowers that possess the
realm outside, and rejoice in their lawless profusion whilst the spirit of man is low, and
flaunt their gaudy splendors in his face while his soul is clothed in sackcloth and ashes and
his heart breaketh."

Alonzo opened his lips to say, "You ought to print that, and get it framed," but checked himself,
for he heard his aunt speaking to some one else. He went and stood at the window and looked
out upon the wintry prospect. The storm was driving the snow before it more furiously than
ever; window-shutters were slamming and banging; a forlorn dog, with bowed head and tail withdrawn
from service, was pressing his quaking body against a windward wall for shelter and protection;
a young girl was plowing knee-deep through the drifts, with her face turned from the blast,
and the cape of her waterproof blowing straight rearward over her head. Alonzo shuddered, and
said with a sigh, "Better the slop, and the sultry rain, and even the insolent flowers, than this!"

He turned from the window, moved a step, and stopped in a listening attitude. The faint, sweet
notes of a familiar song caught his ear. He remained there, with his head unconsciously bent
forward, drinking in the melody, stirring neither hand nor foot, hardly breathing. There was
a blemish in the execution of the song, but to Alonzo it seemed an added charm instead of a
defect. This blemish consisted of a marked flatting of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and
seventh notes of the refrain or chorus of the piece. When the music ended, Alonzo drew a deep
breath, and said, "Ah, I never have heard 'In the Sweet By-and-by' sung like that before!"

He stepped quickly to the desk, listened a moment, and said in a guarded, confidential voice,
"Aunty, who is this divine singer?"

"She is the company I was expecting. Stays with me a month or two. I will introduce you. Miss--"

"For goodness' sake, wait a moment, Aunt Susan! You never stop to think what you are about!"

He flew to his bedchamber, and returned in a moment perceptibly changed in his outward appearance,
and remarking, snappishly:

"Hang it, she would have introduced me to this angel in that sky-blue dressing-gown with red-hot
lapels! Women never think, when they get a-going."

He hastened and stood by the desk, and said eagerly, "Now, Aunty, I am ready," and fell to
smiling and bowing with all the persuasiveness and elegance that were in him.

"Very well. Miss Rosannah Ethelton, let me introduce to you my favorite nephew, Mr. Alonzo
Fitz Clarence. There! You are both good people, and I like you; so I am going to trust you
together while I attend to a few household affairs. Sit down, Rosannah; sit down, Alonzo. Good-by;
I sha'n't be gone long."

Alonzo had been bowing and smiling all the while, and motioning imaginary young ladies to sit
down in imaginary chairs, but now he took a seat himself, mentally saying, "Oh, this is luck!
Let the winds blow now, and the snow drive, and the heavens frown! Little I care!"

While these young people chat themselves into an acquaintanceship, let us take the liberty
of inspecting the sweeter and fairer of the two. She sat alone, at her graceful ease, in a
richly furnished apartment which was manifestly the private parlor of a refined and sensible
lady, if signs and symbols may go for anything. For instance, by a low, comfortable chair stood
a dainty, top-heavy workstand, whose summit was a fancifully embroidered shallow basket, with
varicolored crewels, and other strings and odds and ends protruding from under the gaping lid
and hanging down in negligent profusion. On the floor lay bright shreds of Turkey red, Prussian
blue, and kindred fabrics, bits of ribbon, a spool or two, a pair of scissors, and a roll or
so of tinted silken stuffs. On a luxurious sofa, upholstered with some sort of soft Indian
goods wrought in black and gold threads interwebbed with other threads not so pronounced in
color, lay a great square of coarse white stuff, upon whose surface a rich bouquet of flowers
was growing, under the deft cultivation of the crochet-needle. The household cat was asleep
on this work of art. In a bay-window stood an easel with an unfinished picture on it, and a
palette and brushes on a chair beside it. There were books everywhere: Robertson's Sermons,
Tennyson, Moody and Sankey, Hawthorne, Rab and His Friends, cook-books, prayer-books, pattern-books--and
books about all kinds of odious and exasperating pottery, of course. There was a piano, with
a deck-load of music, and more in a tender. There was a great plenty of pictures on the walls,
on the shelves of the mantelpiece, and around generally; where coigns of vantage offered were
statuettes, and quaint and pretty gimcracks, and rare and costly specimens of peculiarly devilish
china. The bay-window gave upon a garden that was ablaze with foreign and domestic flowers
and flowering shrubs.

But the sweet young girl was the daintiest thing these premises, within or without, could offer
for contemplation: delicately chiseled features, of Grecian cast; her complexion the pure snow
of a japonica that is receiving a faint reflected enrichment from some scarlet neighbor of
the garden; great, soft blue eyes fringed with long, curving lashes; an expression made up
of the trustfulness of a child and the gentleness of a fawn; a beautiful head crowned with
its own prodigal gold; a lithe and rounded figure, whose every attitude and movement was instinct
with native grace.

Her dress and adornment were marked by that exquisite harmony that can come only of a fine
natural taste perfected by culture. Her gown was of a simple magenta tulle, cut bias, traversed
by three rows of light-blue flounces, with the selvage edges turned up with ashes-of-roses
chenille; overdress of dark bay tarlatan with scarlet satin lambrequins; corn-colored polonaise,
en panier, looped with mother-of-pearl buttons and silver cord, and hauled aft and made fast
by buff velvet lashings; basque of lavender reps, picked out with valenciennes; low neck, short
sleeves; maroon velvet necktie edged with delicate pink silk; inside handkerchief of some simple
three-ply ingrain fabric of a soft saffron tint; coral bracelets and locket-chain; coiffure
of forget-me-nots and lilies-of-the-valley massed around a noble calla.

This was all; yet even in this subdued attire she was divinely beautiful. Then what must she
have been when adorned for the festival or the ball?

All this time she had been busily chatting with Alonzo, unconscious of our inspection. The
minutes still sped, and still she talked. But by and by she happened to look up, and saw the
clock. A crimson blush sent its rich flood through her cheeks, and she exclaimed:

"There, good-by, Mr. Fitz Clarence; I must go now!"

She sprang from her chair with such haste that she hardly heard the young man's answering good-by.
She stood radiant, graceful, beautiful, and gazed, wondering, upon the accusing clock. Presently
her pouting lips parted, and she said:

"Five minutes after eleven! Nearly two hours, and it did not seem twenty minutes! Oh, dear,
what will he think of me!"

At the self-same moment Alonzo was staring at his clock. And presently he said:

"Twenty-five minutes to three! Nearly two hours, and I didn't believe it was two minutes! Is
it possible that this clock is humbugging again? Miss Ethelton! Just one moment, please. Are
you there yet?"

"Yes, but be quick; I'm going right away."

"Would you be so kind as to tell me what time it is?"

The girl blushed again, murmured to herself, "It's right down cruel of him to ask me!" and
then spoke up and answered with admirably counterfeited unconcern, "Five minutes after eleven."

"Oh, thank you! You have to go, now, have you?"

"I'm sorry."

No reply.

"Miss Ethelton!"

"Well?"

"You--you're there yet, ain't you?"

"Yes; but please hurry. What did you want to say?"

"Well, I--well, nothing in particular. It's very lonesome here. It's asking a great deal, I
know, but would you mind talking with me again by and by--that is, if it will not trouble you
too much?"

"I don't know but I'll think about it. I'll try."

"Oh, thanks! Miss Ethelton!... Ah, me, she's gone, and here are the black clouds and the whirling
snow and the raging winds come again! But she said good-by. She didn't say good morning, she
said good-by! ... The clock was right, after all. What a lightning-winged two hours it was!"

He sat down, and gazed dreamily into his fire for a while, then heaved a sigh and said:

"How wonderful it is! Two little hours ago I was a free man, and now my heart's in San Francisco!"

About that time Rosannah Ethelton, propped in the window-seat of her bedchamber, book in hand,
was gazing vacantly out over the rainy seas that washed the Golden Gate, and whispering to
herself, "How different he is from poor Burley, with his empty head and his single little antic
talent of mimicry!"

II

Four weeks later Mr. Sidney Algernon Burley was entertaining a gay luncheon company, in a sumptuous
drawing-room on Telegraph Hill, with some capital imitations of the voices and gestures of
certain popular actors and San Franciscan literary people and Bonanza grandees. He was elegantly
upholstered, and was a handsome fellow, barring a trifling cast in his eye. He seemed very
jovial, but nevertheless he kept his eye on the door with an expectant and uneasy watchfulness.
By and by a nobby lackey appeared, and delivered a message to the mistress, who nodded her
head understandingly. That seemed to settle the thing for Mr. Burley; his vivacity decreased
little by little, and a dejected look began to creep into one of his eyes and a sinister one
into the other.

The rest of the company departed in due time, leaving him with the mistress, to whom he said:

"There is no longer any question about it. She avoids me. She continually excuses herself.
If I could see her, if I could speak to her only a moment--but this suspense--"

"Perhaps her seeming avoidance is mere accident, Mr. Burley. Go to the small drawing-room up-stairs
and amuse yourself a moment. I will despatch a household order that is on my mind, and then
I will go to her room. Without doubt she will be persuaded to see you."

Mr. Burley went up-stairs, intending to go to the small drawing-room, but as he was passing
"Aunt Susan's" private parlor, the door of which stood slightly ajar, he heard a joyous laugh
which he recognized; so without knock or announcement he stepped confidently in. But before
he could make his presence known he heard words that harrowed up his soul and chilled his young
blood, he heard a voice say:

"Darling, it has come!"

Then he heard Rosannah Ethelton, whose back was toward him, say:

"So has yours, dearest!"

He saw her bowed form bend lower; he heard her kiss something--not merely once, but again and
again! His soul raged within him. The heartbreaking conversation went on:

"Rosannah, I knew you must be beautiful, but this is dazzling, this is blinding, this is intoxicating!"

"Alonzo, it is such happiness to hear you say it. I know it is not true, but I am so grateful
to have you think it is, nevertheless! I knew you must have a noble face, but the grace and
majesty of the reality beggar the poor creation of my fancy."

Burley heard that rattling shower of kisses again.

"Thank you, my Rosannah! The photograph flatters me, but you must not allow yourself to think
of that. Sweetheart?"

"Yes, Alonzo."

"I am so happy, Rosannah."

"Oh, Alonzo, none that have gone before me knew what love was, none that come after me will
ever know what happiness is. I float in a gorgeous cloud land, a boundless firmament of enchanted
and bewildering ecstasy!"

"Oh, my Rosannah!--for you are mine, are you not?"

"Wholly, oh, wholly yours, Alonzo, now and forever! All the day long, and all through my nightly
dreams, one song sings itself, and its sweet burden is, 'Alonzo Fitz Clarence, Alonzo Fitz
Clarence, Eastport, state of Maine!'"

"Curse him, I've got his address, anyway!" roared Burley, inwardly, and rushed from the place.

Just behind the unconscious Alonzo stood his mother, a picture of astonishment. She was so
muffled from head to heel in furs that nothing of herself was visible but her eyes and nose.
She was a good allegory of winter, for she was powdered all over with snow.

Behind the unconscious Rosannah stood "Aunt Susan," another picture of astonishment. She was
a good allegory of summer, for she was lightly clad, and was vigorously cooling the perspiration
on her face with a fan.

Both of these women had tears of joy in their eyes.

"Soho!" exclaimed Mrs. Fitz Clarence, "this explains why nobody has been able to drag you out
of your room for six weeks, Alonzo!"

"So ho!" exclaimed Aunt Susan, "this explains why you have been a hermit for the past six weeks,
Rosannah!"

The young couple were on their feet in an instant, abashed, and standing like detected dealers
in stolen goods awaiting judge Lynch's doom.

"Bless you, my son! I am happy in your happiness. Come to your mother's arms, Alonzo!"

"Bless you, Rosannah, for my dear nephew's sake! Come to my arms!"

Then was there a mingling of hearts and of tears of rejoicing on Telegraph Hill and in Eastport
Square.

Servants were called by the elders, in both places. Unto one was given the order, "Pile this
fire high, with hickory wood, and bring me a roasting-hot lemonade."

Unto the other was given the order, "Put out this fire, and bring me two palm-leaf fans and
a pitcher of ice-water."

Then the young people were dismissed, and the elders sat down to talk the sweet surprise over
and make the wedding plans.

Some minutes before this Mr. Burley rushed from the mansion on Telegraph Hill without meeting
or taking formal leave of anybody. He hissed through his teeth, in unconscious imitation of
a popular favorite in melodrama, "Him shall she never wed! I have sworn it! Ere great Nature
shall have doffed her winter's ermine to don the emerald gauds of spring, she shall be mine!"

III

Two weeks later. Every few hours, during same three or four days, a very prim and devout-looking
Episcopal clergyman, with a cast in his eye, had visited Alonzo. According to his card, he
was the Rev. Melton Hargrave, of Cincinnati. He said he had retired from the ministry on account
of his health. If he had said on account of ill-health, he would probably have erred, to judge
by his wholesome looks and firm build. He was the inventor of an improvement in telephones,
and hoped to make his bread by selling the privilege of using it. "At present," he continued,
"a man may go and tap a telegraph wire which is conveying a song or a concert from one state
to another, and he can attach his private telephone and steal a hearing of that music as it
passes along. My invention will stop all that."

"Well," answered Alonzo, "if the owner of the music could not miss what was stolen, why should
he care?"

"He shouldn't care," said the Reverend.

"Well?" said Alonzo, inquiringly.

"Suppose," replied the Reverend, "suppose that, instead of music that was passing along and
being stolen, the burden of the wire was loving endearments of the most private and sacred nature?"

Alonzo shuddered from head to heel. "Sir, it is a priceless invention," said he; "I must have
it at any cost."

But the invention was delayed somewhere on the road from Cincinnati, most unaccountably. The
impatient Alonzo could hardly wait. The thought of Rosannah's sweet words being shared with
him by some ribald thief was galling to him. The Reverend came frequently and lamented the
delay, and told of measures he had taken to hurry things up. This was some little comfort to
Alonzo.

One forenoon the Reverend ascended the stairs and knocked at Alonzo's door. There was no response.
He entered, glanced eagerly around, closed the door softly, then ran to the telephone. The
exquisitely soft and remote strains of the "Sweet By-and-by" came floating through the instrument.
The singer was flatting, as usual, the five notes that follow the first two in the chorus,
when the Reverend interrupted her with this word, in a voice which was an exact imitation of
Alonzo's, with just the faintest flavor of impatience added:

"Sweetheart?"

"Yes, Alonzo?"

"Please don't sing that any more this week--try something modern."

The agile step that goes with a happy heart was heard on the stairs, and the Reverend, smiling
diabolically, sought sudden refuge behind the heavy folds of the velvet window-curtains. Alonzo
entered and flew to the telephone. Said he:

"Rosannah, dear, shall we sing something together?"

"Something modern?" asked she, with sarcastic bitterness.

"Yes, if you prefer."

"Sing it yourself, if you like!"

This snappishness amazed and wounded the young man. He said:

"Rosannah, that was not like you."

"I suppose it becomes me as much as your very polite speech became you, Mr. Fitz Clarence."

"Mister Fitz Clarence! Rosannah, there was nothing impolite about my speech."

"Oh, indeed! Of course, then, I misunderstood you, and I most humbly beg your pardon, ha-ha-ha!
No doubt you said, 'Don't sing it any more to-day.'"

"Sing what any more to-day?"

"The song you mentioned, of course, How very obtuse we are, all of a sudden!"

"I never mentioned any song."

"Oh, you didn't?"

"No, I didn't!"

"I am compelled to remark that you did."

"And I am obliged to reiterate that I didn't."

"A second rudeness! That is sufficient, sir. I will never forgive you. All is over between us."

Then came a muffled sound of crying. Alonzo hastened to say:

"Oh, Rosannah, unsay those words! There is some dreadful mystery here, some hideous mistake.
I am utterly earnest and sincere when I say I never said anything about any song. I would not
hurt you for the whole world.... Rosannah, dear speak to me, won't you?"

There was a pause; then Alonzo heard the girl's sobbings retreating, and knew she had gone
from the telephone. He rose with a heavy sigh, and hastened from the room, saying to himself,
"I will ransack the charity missions and the haunts of the poor for my mother. She will persuade
her that I never meant to wound her."

A minute later the Reverend was crouching over the telephone like a cat that knoweth the ways
of the prey. He had not very many minutes to wait. A soft, repentant voice, tremulous with
tears, said:

"Alonzo, dear, I have been wrong. You could not have said so cruel a thing. It must have been
some one who imitated your voice in malice or in jest."

The Reverend coldly answered, in Alonzo's tones:

"You have said all was over between us. So let it be. I spurn your proffered repentance, and
despise it!"

Then he departed, radiant with fiendish triumph, to return no more with his imaginary telephonic
invention forever.

Four hours afterward Alonzo arrived with his mother from her favorite haunts of poverty and
vice. They summoned the San Francisco household; but there was no reply. They waited, and continued
to wait, upon the voiceless telephone.

At length, when it was sunset in San Francisco, and three hours and a half after dark in Eastport,
an answer to the oft-repeated cry of "Rosannah!"

But, alas, it was Aunt Susan's voice that spake. She said:

"I have been out all day; just got in. I will go and find her."

The watchers waited two minutes--five minutes--ten minutes. Then came these fatal words, in
a frightened tone:

"She is gone, and her baggage with her. To visit another friend, she told the servants. But
I found this note on the table in her room. Listen: 'I am gone; seek not to trace me out; my
heart is broken; you will never see me more. Tell him I shall always think of him when I sing
my poor "Sweet By-and-by," but never of the unkind words he said about it.' That is her note.
Alonzo, Alonzo, what does it mean? What has happened?"

But Alonzo sat white and cold as the dead. His mother threw back the velvet curtains and opened
a window. The cold air refreshed the sufferer, and he told his aunt his dismal story. Meantime
his mother was inspecting a card which had disclosed itself upon the floor when she cast the
curtains back. It read, "Mr. Sidney Algernon Burley, San Francisco."

"The miscreant!" shouted Alonzo, and rushed forth to seek the false Reverend and destroy him;
for the card explained everything, since in the course of the lovers' mutual confessions they
had told each other all about all the sweethearts they had ever had, and thrown no end of mud
at their failings and foibles for lovers always do that. It has a fascination that ranks next
after billing and cooing.

IV

During the next two months many things happened. It had early transpired that Rosannah, poor
suffering orphan, had neither returned to her grandmother in Portland, Oregon, nor sent any
word to her save a duplicate of the woeful note she had left in the mansion on Telegraph Hill.
Whosoever was sheltering her--if she was still alive--had been persuaded not to betray her
whereabouts, without doubt; for all efforts to find trace of her had failed.

Did Alonzo give her up? Not he. He said to himself, "She will sing that sweet song when she
is sad; I shall find her." So he took his carpet-sack and a portable telephone, and shook the
snow of his native city from his arctics, and went forth into the world. He wandered far and
wide and in many states. Time and again, strangers were astounded to see a wasted, pale, and
woe-worn man laboriously climb a telegraph-pole in wintry and lonely places, perch sadly there
an hour, with his ear at a little box, then come sighing down, and wander wearily away. Sometimes
they shot at him, as peasants do at aeronauts, thinking him mad and dangerous. Thus his clothes
were much shredded by bullets and his person grievously lacerated. But he bore it all patiently.

In the beginning of his pilgrimage he used often to say, "Ah, if I could but hear the 'Sweet
By-and-by'!" But toward the end of it he used to shed tears of anguish and say, "Ah, if I could
but hear something else!"

Thus a month and three weeks drifted by, and at last some humane people seized him and confined
him in a private mad-house in New York. He made no moan, for his strength was all gone, and
with it all heart and all hope. The superintendent, in pity, gave up his own comfortable parlor
and bedchamber to him and nursed him with affectionate devotion.

At the end of a week the patient was able to leave his bed for the first time. He was lying,
comfortably pillowed, on a sofa, listening to the plaintive Miserere of the bleak March winds
and the muffled sound of tramping feet in the street below for it was about six in the evening,
and New York was going home from work. He had a bright fire and the added cheer of a couple
of student-lamps. So it was warm and snug within, though bleak and raw without; it was light
and bright within, though outside it was as dark and dreary as if the world had been lit with
Hartford gas. Alonzo smiled feebly to think how his loving vagaries had made him a maniac in
the eyes of the world, and was proceeding to pursue his line of thought further, when a faint,
sweet strain, the very ghost of sound, so remote and attenuated it seemed, struck upon his
ear. His pulses stood still; he listened with parted lips and bated breath. The song flowed
on--he waiting, listening, rising slowly and unconsciously from his recumbent position. At
last he exclaimed:

"It is! it is she! Oh, the divine hated notes!"

He dragged himself eagerly to the corner whence the sounds proceeded, tore aside a curtain,
and discovered a telephone. He bent over, and as the last note died away he burst forthwith
the exclamation:

"Oh, thank Heaven, found at last! Speak to me, Rosannah, dearest! The cruel mystery has been
unraveled; it was the villain Burley who mimicked my voice and wounded you with insolent speech!"

There was a breathless pause, a waiting age to Alonzo; then a faint sound came, framing itself
into language:

