It was evidently a union of policy, as there could be no heart-union between McIntosh and Hopothlayohola;
and though the latter placed his conduct upon the broad basis of national law and national
justice, yet this was inflicted upon the parent of the other, who denied the law, or the power
under the law, supposing it to exist, of the other to adjudge and to execute its sentence.
In the meeting of these chiefs, and their apparent reconciliation, was to be seen, a desire
that the nation should reunite, and that there should be amity between the bands, or divided
parties, for the national good, and for the good of all the parties or people. But there could
never be between the two representative chiefs other than a political reconciliation. There
was no attempt on the part of either to deceive the other. Both acted from the same high motives,
while their features told the truth--personally they were enemies. The son held the hand of
his father's executioner, red with the life-blood of him who gave him being--a father he revered,
and whose memory he cherished. The filial and hereditary hatred was in his heart. The feeling
was mutual. Both knew it, and the cold, passive eye, and relaxed, inexpressive features but
bespoke the subdued, not the extinguished passion. Chillie McIntosh is only one-fourth Indian
in blood. Hopothlayohola is a full-blooded Indian. His features are coarse and striking. His
high forehead and prominent brow indicate intellect, and his large compressed mouth and massive
underjaw, terminating in a square, prominent chin, show great fixity of purpose, and resolution
of will. Unquestionably he was the great man of his tribe.

Tuskega, or Jim's Boy, was a man of herculean proportions. He was six feet eight inches in
height, and in every way admirably proportioned. He was the putative son of a chief whose name
he bore, and whose titles and power he inherited. But the old warrior-chief never acknowledged
him as such. The old chief owned as a slave a very large mulatto man, named Jim, who was his
confidant and chief adviser, and to him he ascribed the parentage of his successor, and always
called him Jim's boy. His complexion, hair, and great size but too plainly indicated his parentage.
He was not a man of much mark, except for his size, and would probably never have attained
distinction but through hereditary right.

In their new home these people do not increase. The efforts at civilization seem only to reach
the mixed bloods, and these only in proportion to the white blood in their veins. The Indian
is incapable of the white man's civilization, as indeed all other inferior races are. He has
fulfilled his destiny, and is passing away. No approximation to the pursuits or the condition
of the white man operates otherwise than as a means of his destruction. It seems his contact
is death to every inferior race, when not servile and subjected to his care and control.

To-day I parted from Eugenius Nesbitt and Washington Poe, two of only four or five of those
who commenced life and the practice of law with me in the State of Georgia. We had just learned
of the death of Y.P. King, of Greensboro, Georgia, who was only a few years our senior. The
four of us were young together, and were friends, but I had been separated from them for more
than forty years. Yet the ties of youthful attachment remained, and together we mourned the
loss of our compeer and companion in youth.

I was a member of the Legislature when Judge Nesbitt, by act of the Legislature, was admitted
to the Bar, he having not attained his majority, and by a rule could not be admitted in the
ordinary manner. Nesbitt, though so young, was known through the up-country of Georgia as a
young man of more than ordinary promise. The same was the case with Poe. They had so deported
themselves as to win the confidence and affection of the wise and the good. There were some
in the Legislature who were lawyers, and who conscientiously believed that no one so young
as Nesbitt was could be sufficiently matured mentally to properly discharge the duties of the
profession. These men themselves were naturally dull, and ignorantly supposed all minds, like
their own, were weak in youth, and could only be strengthened and enlightened by time and cultivation.
They honestly opposed the bill admitting the applicant. There was one though, who held no such
ridiculous notions--himself an example to the contrary--but from some cause he strenuously
opposed the bill. It was the celebrated Seaborne Jones, one of the very ablest lawyers the
State ever produced. It seemed ever a delight to him to bear heavily upon young lawyers. It
would be difficult to divine his motives. He was at the head of the Bar, unapproached by competition,
especially by any young man.

I was young and ardent, and felt offended at this opposition, and gave all the aid I could
to the passage of the bill. Fortunately for our cause, there were many young lawyers in the
Legislature, and these were a unit, and we succeeded in carrying the measure. From that day
Nesbitt seemed nearer to me than any other of the Bar in our circuit. We have been separated
over forty years, he remaining in his native State, while I have wandered away to the West.
Still that warmth of heart toward him has never died out. And now, when both are on the grave's
brink, we meet, not to renew, but to find the old flame burning still. King, Nesbitt, and myself
were born in the same county, and our ancestors worshipped at the same church--Old Bethany--and
to-day we recalled the fact as we mourned the death of our early friend and compeer at the Bar.

Time has swept on. Our children are gray with years. One by one, all who were at the Bar with
us are gone, save two or three, and to-morrow we shall be gone. But the oblivious past has
not curtained from memory yet the incidents and the men of that past, and while I may I will
bear testimony to these, and to the men who were their chief actors. Nesbitt justified in his
subsequent life all that his friends and the public hoped from him. In every relation of life
he has done his duty ably, honestly, and purely. As a member of the Legislature, of Congress,
as a judge of the Supreme Court, as a worthy member of the Presbyterian Church, and, above
all, as a father, husband, and citizen, he has been good, wise, and faithful. Is not his measure
full? Who deserves it more? We were sad to-day. One said, "King is dead." "Yes," answered the
other, and we were silent. Memory was busy. We could not talk. In his office, where yet he
wears the harness of the law, surrounded by musty, well-thumbed books, and piles of papers
with hard judicial faces, we sat and mused. Perhaps we thought of the past, when those to whom
eternity is a reality were with us and joyous. At such times the mind turns quickly back to
youth's joys, nor lingers along the vista of intervening time. All of that day will revive,
but these memories sadden the heart, and we are fain to think, but not to talk. Perhaps we
wondered what were the realizations of the dead. What are they? Who knows, except the dead?
Do the dead know? Unprofitable thought! Faith and hope only buoy the heart, and time brings
the end. Well, time has whitened our heads, but not indurated our hearts, and time is now as
busy as when in the joyousness of youth we heeded not his flight, and to-morrow may bring us
to the grave. Ah! then we shall know the secret, and we will keep it, as all who have gone
before. Oh, what a blessed hope is that which promises that we shall, forgetful of the cares
and sorrows of time, meet those whom death has refined, and be happy as they in eternity! But
the doubt, and then the fear! But why the fear? We come into time without our knowledge or
consent, fulfil a destiny, and without our knowledge or consent die out of time. This is the
economy of man's life, and was given him by his Creator. Then why should he fear? If it is
wise for him to be born, to live, it is surely wise that he should die, since that is equally
a part of his economy. Then why fear? Reason is satisfied, but instinct fears.

Yelverton P. King never removed from the county of his birth, nor abandoned his profession,
remaining upon the soil of his nativity and among those with whom he had been reared, maintaining
through life the character of an upright man. Many memories are connected with his name. When
we were young at the Bar, there were as our associates very many who attained eminence as lawyers,
and fame as politicians; but these distinctions are not connected with the endearing attributes
which make them so cherished in memory--the incidents of social intercourse, the favors, the
kindnesses of good neighborhood, the sympathies of young life, the unity of sentiment, the
sameness of hopes, little regarded at the moment; but oh! how they were rooting in the heart,
to bear, away in the coming time, these fruits of memory, in which is the most of happiness
when age whitens the head, and the heart is mellowed with the sorrows of time.

Though all were affectionate and social in their intercourse with each other, yet each had
his favorites, because of greater congeniality in nature, more intense sympathies, and more
continual intercourse. Little incidents were of frequent occurrence which drew these continually
closer, until friendships ripened into confidences--some more special favorites of some, and
some more general favorites of all. This latter was Y.P. King; and yet this favoritism was
never very demonstrative, but perhaps the stronger and more permanent for this. Such, too,
was Nesbitt; the older members of the profession loved him, and those of his own age were unenvious
and esteemed him.

Our circuit consisted of seven counties, and the ridings were spring and fall, occupying about
two months each term. In each courthouse town was a tavern or two. These houses of entertainment
were not then dignified with the sonorous title of hotel. The proprietors were usually jolly
good fellows, or some staid matronly lady, in black gown and blue cap, and they all looked
forward with anxious delight to the coming of court week. Every preparation was made for the
judge and lawyers. Beds were aired and the bugs hunted out. Saturday previous to the coming
Monday was a busy day in setting all things to rights, and the scrubbing-broom was heard in
consonance with calls to the servants to be busy and careful, as Sally and Nancy sprang to
their work with a will. With garments tucked up to their knees, they splashed the water and
suds over the floors, strangers to the cleansing element until then for months ago. A new supply
of corn and fodder was arriving from the country; stables and stable lots were undergoing a
scraping eminently required for the comfort of decent beasts, who gave their lives in labor
to exacting man. The room usually appropriated to the Bench and Bar was a great vagabond-hall,
denominated the ball-room, and for this purpose appropriated once or twice a year. Along the
bare walls of this mighty dormitory were arranged beds, each usually occupied by a couple of
the limbs of the law, and sometimes appropriated to three. If there was not a spare apartment,
a bed was provided here for the judge. And if there were no lawyers from Augusta, this one
was distinguished by the greatest mountain of feathers in the house. Here assembled at night
the rollicking boys of the Georgia Bar, who here indulged, without restraint, the convivialities
for which they were so celebrated. Humor and wit, in anecdotes and repartee, beguiled the hours;
and the few old taverns time has spared, could they speak, might narrate more good things their
walls have heard, than have ever found record in the Noctes Ambrosianæ of the wits of Scrogie.

There are but few now left who have enjoyed a night in one of these old tumble-down rooms,
with A.S. Clayton, O.H. Prince, A.B. Longstreet, and John M. Dooly. Here and there one, old,
tottering, and gray, lives to laugh at his memories of those chosen spirits of fun. Yes, that
is the word--fun--for these ancients possessed a fund of mirth-exciting humor, combined with
a biting wit, which, in the peregrinations of a long life, I have met nowhere else. Were I
to select one of these inns, it would be the old Walton Tavern, in the mean little hamlet of
Livingston in Oglethorpe County, or the old house, kept long and indifferently, by that mountain
of mortal obesity, Billy Springer, in Sparta, Hancock County. It was here, and when Springer
presided over the fried meat and eggs of this venerable home for the weary and hungry, after
a night of it, that all were huddled to bed like pigs in a sty.

This bulky Boniface was polite to all, but especially to an Augusta lawyer. Freeman Walker,
of that ilk, usually attended this court, and was the great man of the week. A man of splendid
abilities and polished manners, dressed and deporting himself like a gentleman, as he was,
he shone among the lesser lights which orbed about him, a star of the first magnitude. The
choice seat, the choice bed, and choice bits at the table, were ever for Major Walker. Big
Billy, with his four hundred and ten pounds of adipose flesh, was always behind Major Walker's
chair. He was first served; the choicest pieces of the pig were pointed out, cuts from the
back and side bones and breast were hunted from the dish of fried chicken, a famous Georgia
dish, for Major Walker. It was a great thing in those days in Georgia, to live in a little
town of three thousand inhabitants, and wear store clothes. It was this and these which made
a Georgia major.

Judge Dooly, upon one occasion, when attempting to usurp the seat of honor, was unceremoniously
informed by Big Billy that it was Major Walker's seat.

Custom since has familiarized the retention of special seats for special persons, and now such
a remark from a host astonishes no one. But in those days of unadulterated democracy, to assume
a right to an unoccupied seat, startled every one. Dooly, amid the astonished gaze of the assembled
guests, unmurmuringly retired to an unoccupied seat of more humble pretensions near the foot
of the extended table. The occurrence was canvassed at night with full house in the democratic
dormitory. When the jests incidental were hushed, and one after another had retired to bed,
Judge Dooly, then on the Bench, went slowly to the only unappropriated bed, and undressing,
folded down the bed-clothes. Suddenly, as if he had forgotten something, he slipped to the
landing of the stairway and called anxiously for the landlord. "Come up, if you please," he
said to the answering host. Springer commenced the ascent with slow and heavy tread; at length,
after a most exhausting effort, and breathing like a wounded bellows, he lifted his mighty
burden of flesh into the room.

"What is your will, Judge Dooly?" he asked, with a painful effort at speech.

Dooly, standing in his shirt by the bedside and pointing to it, asked, with much apparent solicitude,
if that "was Major Walker's bed."

Springer felt the sarcasm keenly, and, amid the boisterous outburst of laughter from every
bed, turned and went down.

A thousand anecdotes might be related of the peculiar wit, sarcasm, and drollery of this remarkable
man. One more must suffice. When Newton County was first organized, it was made the duty of
Dooly to hold the first court. There then lived and kept the only tavern in the new town of
Covington, a man of huge proportions, named Ned Williams, usually called Uncle Ned--he, as
well as Dooly, have long slept with their fathers. The location of the village and court-house
had been of recent selection, and Uncle Ned's tavern was one of those peculiar buildings improvised
for temporary purposes--a log cabin, designated, in some parts of Georgia at that time, as
a two-storied house, with both stories on the ground; in other words, a double-penned cabin
with passage between. Uncle Ned had made ample provision for the Bench and Bar. One pen of
his house was appropriated to their use. There was a bed in each corner, and there were nine
lawyers, including the judge. The interstices between the cabin poles were open, but there
was no window, and but one door, which had to be closed to avoid too close companionship with
the dogs of the household. It was June, and Georgia June weather, sultry, warm, and still,
especially at night. In the centre there stood a deal table of respectable dimensions, and
this served the double purpose of dining-table and bed-place for one. Uncle Ned was polite
and exceedingly solicitous to please. He had scoured the county for supplies; it was too new
for poultry or eggs, but acorns abounded, and pigs were plenty. They had never experienced
want, and consequently were well-grown and fat. Uncle Ned had found and secured one which weighed
some two hundred pounds. This he divided into halves longitudinally, and had barbecued the
half intended for the use of the Bar and Bench. At dinner, on Monday, it was introduced upon
a large wooden tray as the centre substantial dish for the dinner of the day. It was swimming
in lard. There were side-dishes of potatoes and cold meats, appellated in Georgia collards,
with quantities of corn-bread, with two bowls of hash from the lungs and liver of the pig,
all reeking with the fire and summer heat. A scanty meal was soon made, but the tray and contents
remained untouched.

The court continued three days, and was adjourned at noon of the fourth day, until the next
term. Each day the tray and contents were punctual in their attendance. The depressed centre
of the tray was a lake of molten lard, beneath which hid a majority of the pig. After dinner
of the last day, all were ready to leave. When the meal was concluded, Dooly asked if all were
done. "Landlord," said the Judge, "will you give us your attention?" Uncle Ned entered. "Your
will, Judge," he asked. "I wish you, sir, to discharge this hog on his own recognizance. We
do not want any bail for his appearance at the next term." The dinner concluded in a roar of
laughter, in which Uncle Ned heartily joined.

Only one of the nine who assisted to organize that county, now remains in life. There were
four men there whose names are inscribed on the scroll of fame--whose names their fellow-citizens
have honored and perpetuated by giving them to counties: Cobb, Dawson, Colquitt, and Dougherty.
Warner and Pierman died young. I alone remain. The children of most of them are now gray with
years, and have seen their grandchildren. The name of Dooly remains only a memory.

The affections arising from youthful associations are more enduring than those which come of
the same cause in riper years. They are more disinterested and sincere. They come with the
spring of life, root deep into the heart, and cling with irradicable tenacity through life.
We find in mature life dear friends, friends who will share the all they have with you, who
will for you hazard even life, and you love them--but not as you love the boys who were at
school with you, who ran with you wild through the woods, when you hunted the squirrel and
trapped the quail. When fortuitous time forces your separation, and long intervening years
blot the features, in their change, from your recognition, and chance throws you again with
a loved companion of life's young morn--the thrill which stirs the heart, when his name is
announced, comes not for the friend found only when time has grown gray.

Go and stand by the grave of one loved when a boy, the little laughing girl you played with
at hide-and-seek, through the garden shrubbery and the intricacies of the house and yard, one
who was always gentle and kind, she for whom you carried the satchel and books when going to
school, who came at noon and divided her blackberry-pie with you, and always gave you the best
piece--and see how all these memories will come back; and if the green grass upon the roof-top
of her home for eternity does not bear, when you have gone away, a tear-drop to sparkle and
exhale, a tribute to endearing memory, your heart is not worth the name. It is not given to
us to love all with whom we may be familiar in early life. But every one will sincerely love
some few of the companions of his school-days and early manhood. This is really the sugar of
life, and the garrulity of age loves to recount these, for in his narrative he lives over and
revives the attachments of boyhood. Woman may confess only to her own heart these memories--she
must love only in secret. When the heart is fresh and brimming with affection, she may love
with all the devotion of woman's heart; but if her love meets no return its birthplace must
be its grave. She may only tell, when she is old, of her successful and more fortunate love.
Ah! how many recount to their grandchildren their love, in budding youth, for their grandfather,
who hide in the secret alcoves of the heart a more sacred memory of one who found his way there
before dear old grandfather came. What sorrows these memories have sown along the way of life!
but they have winced not when the thorn has pricked; and how she has folded to her bosom dear
John, while imagination made him the more dear Willie, her first and foremost love! These endure
in secret, and are the more sacred for this; they die only with the dead heart. Oh! the grave,
the secrets of the grave, are they hidden there for ages, or shall they survive as treasures
for eternity?

I have been wandering among the graves of those loved best when the heart could love most,
and dead memories sprouted anew, and with them a flash of the feelings which made them treasures
of the heart. Yonder is the grave of Thomas W. Cobb; near me is that of him most loved--William
C. Dawson; and here, in this green grave, is Yelverton P. King; and near him is the last resting-place
of Adeline Harrison. Dear, sweet Adeline, you went, in truth, to heaven, ere yet the bud of
life had opened into flower! This is the county of my birth, and all of these, save Cobb, were
natives, too, of the dear old land.

To me, how near and dear were these! Turn back, O Time, thy volume for fifty years, and let
me read over anew the records of dead days, and make memories once more realities, as they
were real then--else hurry on to the end, that I may know with these, or with these forget
forever! I would not linger in the twilight of life, with all of time dimming out, and nothing
of eternity dawning upon my vision. Let me sleep in the forgetfulness of the one, to awake
to the fruition of the other!

I have been to the graves of my father and my mother. For more than a third of a century they
have been sleeping here. I sat down in the moonlight, and placed my hand upon the cold, heavy
stone which rests above them: they do not feel its pressure, but sleep well. They are but earth
now--and why am I here? The moon and the stars are the same, and as sweetly bright, looking
down upon this sacred spot, as they were when, a little child, I sat upon the knee of her who
is nothing here, and listened to her telling me the names of these, as she would point to them,
and ask me if I did not see them winking at me. Yet they are there, and the same now as then.
But where is that gentle, sweet, affectionate mother? Is she up among these gems of heaven?
Is she yonder in the mighty Jupiter, looking down, and smiling at me? Is she permitted, in
her new being, to come at will, and breathe to my mind holy thoughts and holy feelings? Disembodied,
is she, as God, pervading all, and knowing all? Does she, with that devotion of heart which
was so much hers in time, still love and protect me? Shall I, when purified by death, go to
her? and shall this hope become a reality, and endure forever? Surely, this must be true; or,
why are these thoughts and hopes in the mind--why this affection sublimated still in the heart--why
this link between the living, and the dead, if its fruition shall be denied in eternity? Why
this question, which implies a doubt of the goodness of God? Sweet is the belief, sweeter the
hope, that I shall see that smile of benignity, feel that gentle, loving caress, and forever,
in unalloyed bliss, participate heaven with her. My mother--my mother! see you into my heart,
here by your gravestone, to-night? Hast thou gone with me through my long pilgrimage of time?
If I have kept thy counsels, and walked by their wisdom, hast thou approved, my mother? My
mother, all that is good and pure in me has come of thee! If the allurements of vice have tempted,
and frail nature has threatened to yield, the morning's admonition, the evening's counsel in
our long walks, would strengthen me to forbearance. These bright memories have lived and remained
with me a guide and salvation; and now they are the morning's memory, the evening's thought.
As I have remembered and loved thee, I have been guided and governed by these. Surely there
can be no loss to the child like the loss of the mother! How those are to be pitied! They go
through life without the holy influences for good coming from a mother; they stumble on, and
learn here and there, as time progresses, the moral lessons only taught to childhood from a
mother's lips: they stumble and fall for the want of these; and, by experience, too often bitter
experience, learn in youth what in childhood should be taught, which should grow up with them
as a part of their being, to be the guides and comforts of life. And oh, how many never learn this!

Go, and converse with the wise and good, and they will tell you of their mothers' teachings;
go to the condemned criminal, whose crimes have cast him from society, and ask him why he is
thus--and he will tell you he disregarded the teachings of his mother; or, 'I had a wicked
and vicious mother, who taught me evil instead of good;' or, 'I had no mother, to plant in
my childhood's heart the fear of God and the love of virtue.'

Here, to me, to-night, in grateful memory, comes the Sabbath morning in the garden at the home
of my childhood, more than sixty years ago, when this dead mother here sleeping pointed to
the drunken man passing on the highway, and, kindly looking up into my face, asked me to look
at him, and, when he had passed out of sight, said: "My child, will you here, this beautiful
morning of God's day, promise your mother that you will not drink one drop of ardent spirits
until you are twenty-one years of age? You are so full of animal spirits, I fear, should you
touch it at all, that you will come to drink to excess, and fill a drunkard's grave before
you shall have passed half the days allotted to man's life." I see that pleading face, those
soft brown eyes to-night, as they looked from where she was seated into my face; I see the
soft smile of satisfaction, as it came up from her heart and illumined her features, when I
lifted up my hand and made the promise! And, oh, shall I ever forget the thrill which gladdened
my heart when she rose up and kissed me, and murmured so gently, so tenderly, so full of hope
and confidence: "I know you will keep it, my child." That promise is a holy memory! It was
kept with sacred fidelity.

Angel of love and light--my mother--look down upon thy child here to-night, and for the last
time by thy grave, with whitened head and tottering step, and see if I have ever departed from
the way you taught me to go! Soon I shall be with you.

MY WORK IS OVER, MY TASK IS DONE!