Scott's Waverley Novels, too, aroused our enthusiasm.  In the early sixties a cheap edition
appeared, and cheap editions were rare things then.  It was published, if I remember aright,
at two shillings per volume; an event that stirred the country.  My father brought each volume
home as it came out.  I remember it well; a pale, creamy-coloured paper cover, good type, good
paper.  What treasures they were, and only two shillings!  I was a little child when an important
movement for the cheapening of books began.  In 1852 Charles Dickens presided at a meeting
of authors and others against the coercive regulations of the Booksellers' Association which
maintained their excessive profits. Herbert Spencer and Miss Evans (George Eliot) took a prominent
part in this meeting and drafted the resolutions which were passed.  The ultimate effect of
this meeting was that the question between the authors and the booksellers was referred to
Lord Campbell as arbitrator.  He gave a decision against the booksellers; and there were consequently
abolished such of the trade regulations as had interdicted the sale of books at lower rates
of profit than those authorised by the Booksellers' Association.

Practically all my school days were spent at Derby.  As I have said, ours was a large family.
I have referred to an only sister, but I had step- sisters and step-brothers too.  My father
married twice and the second family was numerous.  His salary was never more than 300 pounds
a year, and though a prudent enough man, he was not of the frugal economical sort who makes
the most of every shilling.  It may be imagined, then, that all the income was needed for a
family that, parents included, but excluding the one servant, numbered eleven.  The consequence
was that the education I received could not be described as liberal.  I attended a day school
at Derby, connected with the Wesleyans; why I do not know, as we belonged to the Anglican Church;
but I believe it was because the school, while cheap as to fees, had the reputation of giving
a good, plain education suitable for boys destined for railway work.  It was a good sized school
of about a hundred boys.  Not long ago I met one day in London a business man who, it turned
out, was at this school with me.  We had not met for fifty years.  "Well," said he, "I think
old Jessie, if he did not teach us a great variety of things, what he did he taught well."
My new-found old schoolmate had become the financial manager of a great business house having
ramifications throughout the world.  He had attained to position and wealth and, which successful
men sometimes are not, was quite unspoiled.  We revived our schooldays with mutual pleasure,
and lunched together as befitted the occasion.

"Jessie" was the name by which our old schoolmaster was endeared to his boys; a kindly, simple-minded,
worthy man, teaching, as well as scholastic subjects, behaviour, morals, truth, loyalty; and
these as much by example as by precept, impressing ever upon us the virtue of thoroughness
in all we did and of truth in all we said.  Since those days I have seen many youths, educated
at much finer and more pretentious schools, who have benefited by modern educational methods,
and on whose education much money has been expended, and who, when candidates for clerkships,
have, in the simple matters of reading, writing, arithmetic, composition and spelling, shown
up very poorly compared to what almost any boy from "old Jessie's" unambitious establishment
would have done. But, plain and substantial as my schooling was, I have ever felt that I was
defrauded of the better part of education--the classics, languages, literature and modern science,
which furnish the mind and extend the boundaries of thought.

"Jessie" continued his interest in his boys long after they left school. He was proud of those
who made their way.  I remember well the warmth of his greeting and the kind look of his mild
blue eyes when, after I had gone out into the world, I sometimes revisited him.

But my school life was not all happiness.  In the school there was an almost brutal element
of roughness, and fights were frequent; not only in our own, but between ours and neighbouring
schools.  Regular pitched battles were fought with sticks and staves and stones.  I shrunk
from fighting but could not escape it.  Twice in our own playground I was forced to fight.
Every new boy had to do it, sooner or later. Fortunately on the second occasion I came off
victor, much to my surprise.  How I managed to beat my opponent I never could understand. Anyhow
the victory gave me a better standing in the school, though it did not lessen in the least
my hatred of the battles that raged periodically with other schools.  I never had to fight
again except as an unwilling participant in our foreign warfare.

CHAPTER III. THE MIDLAND RAILWAY AND "KING HUDSON"

In the year 1851 the Midland Railway was 521 miles long; it is now 2,063. Then its capital
was 15,800,000, against 130,000,000 pounds to-day.  Then the gross revenue was 1,186,000 and
now it has reached 15,960,000 pounds. When I say now, I refer to 1913, the year prior to the
war, as since then, owing to Government control, non-division of through traffic and curtailment
of accounts, the actual receipts earned by individual companies are not published, and, indeed,
are not known.

Eighteen hundred and fifty-one was a period of anxiety to the Midland and to railway companies
generally.  Financial depression had succeeded a time of wild excitement, and the Midland dividend
had fallen from seven to two per cent.!  It was the year of the great Exhibition, which Lord
Cholmondeley considered the event of modern times and many over-sanguine people expected it
to inaugurate a universal peace.  On the other hand Carlyle uttered fierce denunciations against
it.  It certainly excited far more interest than has any exhibition since.  Then, nothing of
the kind had ever before been seen.  Railway expectations ran high; immense traffic receipts,
sorely needed, ought to have swelled the coffers of the companies.  But no! vast numbers of
people certainly travelled to London, but a mad competition, as foolish almost as the preceding
mania, set in, and passenger fares were again and again reduced, till expected profits disappeared
and loss and disappointment were the only result.  The policy of Parliament in encouraging
the construction of rival railway routes and in fostering competition in the supposed interest
of the public was, even in those early days, bearing fruit--dead sea fruit, as many a luckless
holder of railway stock learned to his cost.

Railway shareholders throughout the kingdom were growing angry.  In the case of the Midland--they
appointed a committee of inquiry, and the directors assented to the appointment.  This committee
was to examine and report upon the general and financial conditions of the company, and was
invested with large powers.

About the same time also interviews took place between the Midland and the London and North-Western,
with the object of arranging an amalgamation of the two systems.  Some progress was made, but
no formal engagement resulted, and so a very desirable union, between an aristocratic bridegroom
and a democratic bride, remained unaccomplished.

Mr. Ellis was chairman of the Midland at this time and Mr. George Carr Glyn, afterwards the
first Lord Wolverton, occupied a similar position on the Board of the London and North-Western.
Mr. Ellis had succeeded Mr. Hudson--the "Railway King," so christened by Sydney Smith.  Mr.
Hudson in 1844 was chairman of the first shareholders' meeting of the Midland Railway.  Prior
to that date the Midland consisted of three separate railways.  In 1849 Mr. Hudson presided
for the last time at a Midland meeting, and in the following year resigned his office of chairman
of the company.

The story of the meteoric reign of the "Railway King" excited much interest when I was young,
and it may not be out of place to touch upon some of the incidents of his career.

George Hudson was born in 1800, served his apprenticeship in the cathedral city of York and
subsequently became a linendraper there and a man of property.

Many years afterwards he is reported to have said that the happiest days of his life passed
while he stood behind his counter using the yardstick, a statement which should perhaps only
be accepted under reservation.  He was undoubtedly a man of a bold and adventurous spirit,
possessed of an ambition which soared far above the measuring of calicoes or the retailing
of ribbons; but perhaps the observation was tinged by the environment of later and less happy
days when his star had set, his kingly reign come to an end, and when possibly vain regrets
had embittered his existence.  It was, I should imagine, midst the fierceness of the strife
and fury of the mania times, when his powerful personality counted for so much, that he reached
the zenith of his happiness.

[George Hudson: hudson.jpg]

Whilst conducting in York his linendraper business, a relation died and left him money.  The
railway boom had then begun.  He flung his yardstick behind him and entered the railway fray.
The Liverpool and Manchester line and its wonderful success--it paid ten per cent.--greatly
impressed the public mind, and the good people of York determined they would have a railway
to London.

A committee was appointed to carry out the project.  On this committee Mr. Hudson was placed,
and it was mainly owing to his energy and skill that the scheme came to a successful issue.
He was rewarded by being made chairman of the company.

This was his entrance into the railway world where, for a time, he was monarch.  He must have
been a man of shrewdness and capacity.  It is recorded that he acquired the land for the York
to London railway at an average cost of 1,750 pounds per mile whilst that of the North Midland
cost over 5,000 pounds.

On the 1st July, 1840, this linendraper of York had the proud pleasure of seeing the first
train from York to London start on its journey.

From this achievement he advanced to others.  He and his friends obtained the lease, for thirty-one
years, of a rival line, which turned out a great financial success.  His enterprise and energy
were boundless.

It is said that his bold spirit, his capacity for work and his great influence daunted his
most determined opponents.  For instance, the North Midland railway, part predecessor of the
Midland, was involved in difficulty.  He appeared before the shareholders, offered, if his
advice and methods were adopted, to guarantee double the then dividend.  His offer was accepted
and he was made chairman, and from that position became chairman, and for a time dictator,
of the amalgamated Midland system.  Clearly his business abilities were great; his reforms
were bold and drastic, and success attended his efforts.  He soon became the greatest railway
authority in England.  For a time the entire railway system in the north was under his control,
and the confidence reposed in him was unbounded.  He was the lion of the day: princes, peers
and prelates, capitalists and fine ladies sought his society, paid homage to his power, besought
his advice and lavished upon him unstinted adulation.

In 1845 the railway mania was at its height.  It is said that during two or three months of
that year as much as 100,000 pounds per week were expended in advertisements in connection
with railway promotions, railway meetings and railway matters generally.  Scarcely credible
this, but so it is seriously stated.  Huge sums were wasted in the promotion and construction
of British railways in early days, from which, in their excessive capital cost, they suffer
now.  In the mania period railways sprang into existence so quickly that, to use the words
of Robert Stephenson, they "appeared like the realisation of fabled powers or the magician's
wand."  The Illustrated London News of the day said: "Railway speculation has become the sole
object of the world--cupidity is aroused and roguery shields itself under its name, as a more
safe and rapid way of gaining its ends.  Abroad, as well as at home, has it proved the rallying
point of all rascality--the honest man is carried away by the current and becomes absorbed
in the vortex; the timid, the quiet, the moral are, after some hesitation, caught in the whirlpool
and follow those whom they have watched with pity and derision."

Powers were granted by Parliament in the year 1845 to construct no less than 2,883 miles of
new railway at an expenditure of about 44,000,000 pounds; and in the next year (1846) applications
were made to Parliament for authority to raise 389,000,000 pounds for the construction of further
lines.  These powers were granted to the extent of 4,790 miles at a cost of about 120,000,000
pounds.

Soon there came a change; disaster followed success; securities fell; dividends diminished
or disappeared altogether or, as was in some cases discovered, were paid out of capital, and
disappointment and ruin followed.  King Hudson's methods came under a fierce fire of criticism;
adulation was succeeded by abuse and he was disgraced and dethroned.  A writer of the day said,
"Mr. Hudson is neither better nor worse than the morality of his time."  From affluence he
came to want, and in his old age a fund was raised sufficient to purchase him an annuity of
600 pounds a year.

About this time, that most useful Institution the Railway Clearing House received Parliamentary
sanction.  The Railway Clearing System Act 1850 gave it statutory recognition.  Its functions
have been defined thus: "To settle and adjust the receipts arising from railway traffic within,
or partly within, the United Kingdom, and passing over more than one railway within the United
Kingdom, booked or invoiced at throughout rates of fares."  The system had then been in existence,
in a more or less informal way, for about eight years.  Mr. Allport, on one occasion, said
that whilst he was with the Birmingham and Derby railway (before he became general manager
of the Midland) the process of settlement of receipts for through traffic was tedious and difficult,
and it occurred to him that a system should be adopted similar to that which existed in London
and was known as the Bankers' Clearing House.  It was also said that Mr. Kenneth Morrison,
Auditor of the London and Birmingham line, was the first to see and proclaim the necessity
for a Clearing House.  Be that as it may, the Railway Clearing House, as a practical entity,
came into being in 1842.  In the beginning it only embraced nine companies, and six people
were enough to do its work.  The companies were:--

   London and Birmingham, Midland Counties, Birmingham and Derby, North
   Midland, Leeds and Selby, York and North Midland, Hull and Selby,
   Great North of England, Manchester and Leeds.

Not one of these has preserved its original name.  All have been merged in either the London
and North-Western, the North-Eastern, the Midland or the Lancashire and Yorkshire.

At the present day the Clearing House consists of practically the whole of the railway companies
in the United Kingdom, though some of the small and unimportant lines are outside its sphere.
Ireland has a Railway Clearing House of its own--established in the year 1848--to which practically
all Irish railway companies, and they are numerous, belong; and the six principal Irish railways
are members of the London Clearing House.

The English house, situated in Seymour Street, Euston Square, is an extensive establishment,
and accommodates 2,500 clerks.  As I write, the number under its roof is, by war conditions,
reduced to about 900. Serving with His Majesty's Forces are nearly 1,200, and about 400 have
been temporarily transferred to the railway companies, to the Government service and to munition
factories.

In 1842, when the Clearing House first began, the staff, as I have said, numbered six, and
the companies nine.  Fifty-eight railway companies now belong to the House, and the amount
of money dealt with by way of division and apportionment in the year before the war was 31,071,910
pounds.  In 1842 it was 193,246 pounds.

CHAPTER IV. FASHIONS AND MANNERS, VICTORIAN DAYS

The boy who is strong and healthy, overflowing with animal spirits, enjoys life in a way that
is denied to his slighter-framed, more delicate brother.  Exercise imparts to him a physical
exuberance to which the other is a stranger.  But Nature is kind.  If she withholds her gifts
in one direction she bestows them in another.  She grants the enjoyment of sedentary pursuits
to those to whom she has denied hardier pleasures.

During my schooldays I spent many happy hours alone with book or pen or pencil.  My father
was fond of reading, and for a man of his limited means, possessed a good collection of books;
a considerable number of the volumes of Bohn's Standard Library as well as Boswell's Life of
Johnson, Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy, Butler's Hudibras, Bailey's Festus, Gil Blas, Don
Quixote, Pilgrim's Progress, the Arabian Nights, Shakespeare, most of the poets from Chaucer
down; and of novels, Bulwer Lytton's, Scott's, Dickens' and Thackeray's.  These are the books
I best remember, but there were others of classic fame, and I read them all; but not, I fear
to much advantage, for though I have read many books it has been without much method, just
as fancy led, and study, memory and judgment have been little considered.  Still, unsystematic
reading is better than no reading, and, as someone has said, "a phrase may fructify if it falls
on receptive soil."

I never in my boyhood or youth, except on short visits to relatives, enjoyed the advantage,
by living in the country, of becoming intimate with rural life.  We resided at Derby in a terrace
on the outskirt of the town, much to my dislike, for monotonous rows of houses I have ever
hated.  One's home should be one's friend and possess some special feature of its own, even
in its outward aspect, to love and remember.  As George Eliot says: "We get the fonder of our
houses if they have a physiognomy of their own, as our friends have."

In my schooldays, country walks, pursued as far as health and strength allowed, were my greatest
pleasure, sometimes taken alone, sometimes with a companion.  The quiet valley of the Trent
at Repton, Anchor Church, Knoll Hills, the long bridge at Swarkestone, the charming little
country town of Melbourne, the wooded beauties of Duffield and Belper, the ozier beds of Spondon;
how often have I trod their fields, their woods, their lanes, their paths; and how pleasantly
the memory of it all comes back to me now!

In those days fashions and manners differed greatly from those of to-day. Ladies wore the crinoline
(successor to the hoop of earlier times), chignons and other absurdities, but had not ventured
upon short skirts or cigarettes.  They were much given to blushing, now a lost art; and to
swooning, a thing of the past; the "vapours" of the eighteenth century had, happily, vanished
for ever; but athletic exercises, such as girls enjoy to-day, were then undreamed of.  Why
has the pretty art of blushing gone?  One now never sees a blush to mantle on the cheek of
beauty.  Does the blood of feminine youth flow steadier than it did, or has the more unrestrained
intercourse of the sexes banished the sweet consciousness that so often brought the crimson
to a maiden's face?  The manners of maidens had more of reserve and formality then.  The off-hand
style, the nod of the head, the casual "how d'ye do," were unknown.  Woman has not now the
same desire to appear always graceful; she adopts a manly gait, talks louder, plays hockey,
rides horseback astride, and boldly enters hotel smoking rooms and railway smoking compartments
without apology.

When walking with a lady, old or young, in those days, the gentleman would offer his arm and
she would take it.  The curtsey was still observed but gradually disappearing.  When about
nineteen years of age, I remember being introduced to one of the young beauties of the town,
who I had long secretly admired.  She made me a profound and graceful curtsey--feminine homage
to my budding manhood.  The first curtsey I remember receiving, except of course in the stately
ceremonies of the dance.  For many a day afterwards my cheek glowed with pleasure at the recollection
of that sweet obeisance.  She became my sweetheart, temporarily; but a born butterfly, she
soon fluttered away, leaving me disconsolate--for a time!

Women then wrote a sloping hand, delicate penmanship, to distinguish them from men; crossed
and re-crossed their letters, and were greatly addicted to postscripts.

The men?  Well, they wore mutton chop whiskers, or, if Nature was bountiful, affected the Dundreary
style, which gave a man great distinction, and, if allied to good looks, made him perfectly
irresistible.  They wore "Champagne Charley" coats, fancy waistcoats, frilled-fronted shirts,
relic of the lace and ruffles of Elizabeth's days; velvet smoking caps, embroidered slippers,
elastic-side boots and chimney pot hats.

At eighteen years of age I had my first frock coat and tall hat.  Some of my companions, happy
youths! enjoyed this distinction at sixteen or seventeen.  These adornments were of course
for Sunday wear; no weekday clothes were worn on Sundays then.  My frock coat was of West of
England broadcloth, shiny and smooth.  Sunday attire was incomplete without light kid gloves,
lavender or lemon being the favourite shade for a young man with any pretension to style.

Next in importance to my first frock coat ranked my first portmanteau; it was a present, and
supplanted the carpet bag which, up to then, to my profound disgust, I had to use on visits
to my relatives.  The portmanteau was the sign of youth and progress; old-fashioned people
stuck to the carpet bag.

Man's attire has changed for the better; and woman's, with all its abbreviations and shortcomings,
is, on the whole, more rational; though in the domain of Fashion her vagaries will last no
doubt as long as--woman is woman; and if ever that shall cease to be, the charm of life will
be over.

With man the jacket suit, the soft hat, the soft shirt, the turn-down collar, mark the transition
from starch and stiffness to ease and comfort; and Time in his course has brought no greater
boon than this; except, perhaps, the change that marks our funeral customs.  In those days,
hatbands, gloves and scarves were provided by the bereaved family to the relatives and friends
who attended the obsequies; and all of kinship close or remote, were invited from far and near.
Hearse and coaches and nodding plumes and mutes added to the expense, and many a family of
moderate means suffered terrible privation from the costliness of these burial customs, which,
happily, now are fast disappearing.

Beds, in those days, were warmed with copper warming pans, and nightcaps adorned the slumbering
heads of both sexes.  Spittoons were part of ordinary household furniture.  To colour a meerschaum
was the ambition of smokers, swearing was considered neither low nor vulgar, and snuffing was
fashionable.  Many most respectable men chewed tobacco, and to carry one's liquor well was
a gentlemanly accomplishment.

Garrotters pursued their calling, deterred only by the cat-o'-nine tails, pickpockets abounded
and burglaries were common.

The antimacassar and the family album; in what veneration they were held! The antimacassar,
as its name implies, was designed to protect chairs and couches from the disfiguring stains
of macassar oil, then liberally used in the adornment of the hair which received much attention.
A parting, of geometrical precision, at the back of the head was often affected by men of dressy
habits, who sometimes also wore a carefully arranged curl at the front; and manly locks, if
luxuriant enough, were not infrequently permitted to fall in careless profusion over the collar
of the coat.

Of the family album I would rather not speak.  It is scarcely yet extinct.  A respectable silence
shall accompany its departing days.

Perhaps these things may to some appear mere trivialities; but to recall them awakens many
memories, brings back thoughts of bygone days--days illumined with the sunshine of Youth and
Hope on which it is pleasant to linger.  As someone has finely said: "We lose a proper sense
of the richness of life if we do not look back on the scenes of our youth with imagination
and warmth."

CHAPTER V. EARLY OFFICE LIFE

In the year 1867, at the age of sixteen, I became a junior clerk in the Midland Railway at
Derby, at a salary of 15 pounds a year.

From pre-natal days I was destined for the railway service, as an oyster to its shell.  The
possibility of any other vocation for his sons never entered the mind of my father, nor the
mind of many another father in the town of Derby.

My railway life began on a drizzling dismal day in the early autumn.  My father took me to
the office in which I was to make a start and presented me to the chief clerk.  I was a tall,
thin, delicate, shy, sensitive youth, with curly hair, worn rather long, and I am sure I did
not look at all a promising specimen for encountering the rough and tumble of railway work.

The chief clerk handed me over to one of his assistants, who without ceremony seated me on
a tall stool at a high desk, and put before me, to my great dismay, a huge pile of formidable
documents which he called Way Bills.  He gave me some instructions, but I was too confused
to understand them, and too shy to ask questions.  I only know that I felt very miserable and
hopelessly at sea.  Visions of being dismissed as an incompetent rose before me; but soon,
to my great relief, it was discovered that the Way Bills were too much for me and that I must
begin at more elementary duties.

A few weeks afterwards, when I had found my feet a little, I was promoted from the simple tasks
assigned to me in consequence of my first failure and attached to the goods-train-delays clerk,
a long-bearded elderly man with a very kind face.  He was quite fatherly to me and took a great
deal of trouble in teaching me my work.  With him I soon felt at ease, and was happy in gaining
his approbation.  One thing found favour in his eyes; I wrote a good clear hand and at fair
speed.  In those days penmanship was a fine art.  No cramped or sprawling writing passed muster.
Typewriting was not dreamed of, and, at Derby, shorthand had not appeared on the scene.

