The whole centre of gravity of Ladysmith is changed. Its belly lies no longer in the multifarious
emporia along the High Street, but in the earth-reddened, half-in visible tents that bashfully
mark the commissariat stores. Its brain is not the Town Hall, the best target in Ladysmith,
but Headquarters under the stone-pocked hill. The riddled Royal Hotel is its social centre
no longer; it is to the trench-seamed Sailors' Camp or the wind-swept shoulders of Cæsar's
Camp that men go to hear and tell the news.

Poor Ladysmith! Deserted in its markets, repeopled in its wastes; here ripped with iron splinters,
there rising again into rail-roofed, rock-walled caves; trampled down in its gardens, manured
where nothing can ever grow; skirts hemmed with sandbags and bowels bored with tunnels--the
Boers may not have hurt us, but they have left their mark for years on her.

They have not hurt us much--and yet the casualties mount up. Three to-day, two yesterday, four
dead or dying and seven wounded with one shell--they are nothing at all, but they mount up.
I suppose we stand at about fifty now, and there will be more before we are done with it.

And then there are moments when even this dribbling bombardment can be appalling.

I happened into the centre of the town one day when the two big guns were concentrating a cross-fire
upon it.

First from one side the shell came tearing madly in, with a shrill, a blast. A mountain of
earth, and a hailstorm of stones on iron roofs. Houses winced at the buffet. Men ran madly
away from it. A dog rushed out yelping--and on the yelp, from the other quarter, came the next
shell. Along the broad straight street not a vehicle, not a white man was to be seen. Only
a herd of niggers cowering under flimsy fences at a corner.

Another crash and quaking, and this time in a cloud of dust an outbuilding jumped and tumbled
asunder. A horse streaked down the street with trailing halter. Round the corner scurried the
niggers: the next was due from Pepworth's.

Then the tearing scream: horror! it was coming from Bulwan.

Again the annihilating blast, and not ten yards away. A roof gaped and a house leaped to pieces.
A black reeled over, then terror plucked him up again, and sent him running.

Head down, hands over ears, they tore down the street, and from the other side swooped down
the implacable, irresistible next.

You come out of the dust and the stench of melinite, not knowing where you were, hardly knowing
whether you were hit--only knowing that the next was rushing on its way. No eyes to see it,
no limbs to escape, no bulwark to protect, no army to avenge. You squirm between iron fingers.

Nothing to do but endure.

LADYSMITH, Dec. 6.

"There goes that stinker on Gun Hill," said the captain. "No, don't get up; have some draught
beer."

I did have some draught beer.

"Wait and see if he fires again. If he does we'll go up into the conning-tower, and have both
guns in action toge--"

Boom! The captain picked up his stick.

"Come on," he said.

We got up out of the rocking-chairs, and went out past the swinging meat-safe, under the big
canvas of the ward-room, with its table piled with stuff to read. Trust the sailor to make
himself at home. As we passed through the camp the bluejackets rose to a man and lined up trimly
on either side. Trust the sailor to keep his self-respect, even in five weeks' beleaguered
Ladysmith.

Up a knee-loosening ladder of rock, and we came out on to the green hill-top, where they first
had their camp. Among the orderly trenches, the sites of the deported tents, were rougher irregular
blotches of hole--footprints of shell.

"That gunner," said the captain, waving his stick at Surprise Hill, "is a German. Nobody but
a German atheist would have fired on us at breakfast, lunch, and dinner the same Sunday. It
got too hot when he put one ten yards from the cook. Anybody else we could have spared; then
we had to go."

We come to what looks like a sandbag redoubt, but in the eyes of heaven is a conning-tower.
On either side, from behind a sandbag epaulement, a 12-pounder and a Maxim thrust forth vigilant
eyes. The sandbag plating of the conning-tower was six feet thick and shoulder-high; the rivets
were red earth, loose but binding; on the parapets sprouted tufts of grass, unabashed and rejoicing
in the summer weather. Against the parapet leaned a couple of men with the clean-cut, clean-shaven
jaw and chin of the naval officer, and half-a-dozen bearded bluejackets. They stared hard out
of sun-puckered eyes over the billows of kopje and veldt.

Forward we looked down on the one 4·7; aft we looked up to the other. On bow and beam and quarter
we looked out to the enemy's fleet. Deserted Pepworth's was on the port-bow, Gun Hill, under
Lombard's Kop, on the starboard, Bulwan abeam, Middle Hill astern, Surprise Hill on the port-quarter.

Every outline was cut in adamant.

The Helpmakaar Ridge, with its little black ants a-crawl on their hill, was crushed flat beneath
us.

A couple of vedettes racing over the pale green plain northward looked as if we could jump
on to their heads. We could have tossed a biscuit over to Lombard's Kop. The great yellow emplacement
of their fourth big piece on Gun Hill stood up like a Spit-head Fort. Through the big telescope
that swings on its pivot in the centre of the tower you could see that the Boers were loafing
round it dressed in dirty mustard-colour.

"Left-hand Gun Hill fired, sir," said a bluejacket, with his eyes glued to binoculars. "At
the balloon"--and presently we heard the weary pinions of the shell, and saw the little puff
of white below.

"Ring up Mr Halsey," said the captain.

Then I was aware of a sort of tarpaulin cupboard under the breastwork, of creeping trails of
wire on the ground, and of a couple of sappers.

The corporal turned down his page of 'Harmsworth's Magazine,' laid it on the parapet, and dived
under the tarpaulin.

Ting-a-ling-a-ling! buzzed the telephone bell.

The gaunt up-towering mountains, the long, smooth, deadly guns--and the telephone bell!

The mountains and the guns went out, and there floated in that roaring office of the 'Daily
Mail' instead, and the warm, rustling vestibule of the playhouse on a December night. This
is the way we make war now; only for the instant it was half joke and half home-sickness. Where
were we? What were we doing?

"Right-hand Gun Hill fired, sir," came the even voice of the bluejacket. "At the balloon."

"Captain wants to speak to you, sir," came the voice of the sapper from under the tarpaulin.

Whistle and rattle and pop went the shell in the valley below.

"Give him a round both guns together," said the captain to the telephone.

"Left-hand Gun Hill fired, sir," said the bluejacket to the captain.

Nobody cared about left-hand Gun Hill; he was only a 47 howitzer; every glass was clamped on
the big yellow emplacement.

"Right-hand Gun Hill is up, sir."

Bang coughs the forward gun below us; bang-g-g coughs the after-gun overhead. Every glass clamped
on the emplacement.

"What a time they take!" sighs a lieutenant--then a leaping cloud a little in front and to
the right.

"Damn!" sighs a peach-cheeked midshipman, who--

"Oh, good shot!" For the second has landed just over and behind the epaulement. "Has it hit
the gun?"

"No such luck," says the captain: he was down again five seconds after we fired.

And the men had all gone to earth, of course.

Ting-a-ling-a-ling!

Down dives the sapper, and presently his face reappears, with "Headquarters to speak to you,
sir." What the captain said to Headquarters is not to be repeated by the profane: the captain
knows his mind, and speaks it. As soon as that was over, ting-a-ling again.

"Mr Halsey wants to know if he may fire again, sir."

"He may have one more"--for shell is still being saved for Christmas.

It was all quite unimportant and probably quite ineffective. At first it staggers you to think
that mountain-shaking bang can have no result; but after a little experience and thought you
see it would be a miracle if it had. The emplacement is a small mountain in itself; the men
have run out into holes. Once in a thousand shots you might hit the actual gun and destroy
it--but shell is being saved for Christmas.

If the natives and deserters are not lying, and the sailors really hit Pepworth's Long Tom,
then that gunner may live on his exploit for the rest of his life.

"We trust we've killed a few men," says the captain cheerily; "but we can't hope for much more."

And yet, if they never hit a man, this handful of sailors have been the saving of Ladysmith.
You don't know, till you have tried it, what a worm you feel when the enemy is plugging shell
into you and you can't possibly plug back. Even though they spared their shell, it made all
the world of difference to know that the sailors could reach the big guns if they ever became
unbearable. It makes all the difference to the Boers, too, I suspect; for as sure as Lady Anne
or Bloody Mary gets on to them they shut up in a round or two. To have the very men among you
makes the difference between rain-water and brine.

The other day they sent a 12-pounder up to Cæsar's Camp under a boy who, if he were not commanding
big men round a big gun in a big war, might with luck be in the fifth form.

"There's a 94-pounder up there," said a high officer, who might just have been his grandfather.

"All right, sir," said the child serenely; "we'll knock him out."

He hasn't knocked him out yet, but he is going to next shot, which in a siege is the next best
thing.

In the meantime he has had his gun's name, "Lady Ellen," neatly carved on a stone and put up
on his emplacement. Another gun-pit bears the golden legend "Princess Victoria Battery," on
a board elegant beyond the dreams of suburban preparatory schools. A regiment would have had
no paint or gold-leaf; the sailors always have everything. They carry their home with them,
self-subsisting, self-relying. Even as the constant bluejacket says, "Right Gun Hill up, sir,"
there floats from below ting-ting, ting-ting, ting.

Five bells!

The rock-rending double bang floats over you unheard; the hot iron hills swim away.

Five bells--and you are on deck, swishing through cool blue water among white-clad ladies in
long chairs, going home.

O Lord, how long?

But the sailors have not seen home for two years, which is two less than their usual spell.
This is their holiday.

"Of course, we enjoy it," they say, almost apologising for saving us; "we so seldom get a chance."

The Royal Navy is the salt of the sea and the salt of the earth also.

THE LAST CHAPTER

BY

VERNON BLACKBURN.

I will give no number to the last chapter of George Steevens's story of the war. There is no
reckoning between the work from his and the work from this pen. It is the chapter which covers
a grave; it does not make a completion. And now he is dead. And I have undertaken the most
difficult task, at the command--for in such a case the timorous suggestion, hooped round by
poignant apologies, is no less than a command--of that human creature whom, in the little island
under the north star, he held most dear of all--his wife, to set a copingstone, a mere nothing
in the air, upon the last work that came from his pen. I will prefer to begin with my own summary,
my own intimate view of George Steevens, as he wandered in and out, visible and invisible,
of the paths of my life.

"Weep for the dead, for his light hath failed; weep but a little for the dead, for he is at
rest." Ecclesiasticus came to my mind when the news of his death came to my knowledge. Who
would not weep over the extinction of a career set in a promise so golden, in an accomplishment
so rare and splendid? Sad enough thought it is that he is at rest; still--he rests. "Under
the wide and starry sky," words which, as I have heard him say, in his casual, unambitious
manner of speech, he was wont to repeat to himself in the open deserts of the Soudan--"Under
the wide and starry sky" the grave has been dug, and "let me lie."

    "Glad did I live, and gladly die,
    And I laid me down with a will."

The personality of George Steevens was one which might have been complex and obscure to the
ordinary acquaintance, were it not for one shining, one golden key which fitted every ward
of his temperament, his conduct, his policy, his work. He was the soul of honour. I use the
words in no vague sense, in no mere spirit of phrase-making. How could that be possible at
this hour? They are words which explain him, which are the commentary of his life, which summarise
and enlighten every act of every day, his momentary impulses and his acquired habits. "In Spain,"
a great and noble writer has said, "was the point put upon honour." The point of honour was
with George Steevens his helmet, his shield, his armour, his flag. That it was which made his
lightest word a law, his vaguest promise a necessity in act, his most facile acceptance an
engagement as fixed as the laws of motion. In old, old days I well remember how it came to
be a complacent certainty with everybody associated with Steevens that if he promised an article,
an occasional note, a review--whatever it might be--at two, three, four, five in the morning,
at that hour the work would be ready. He never flinched; he never made excuses, for the obvious
reason that there was never any necessity for excuse. Truthful, clean-minded, nobly unselfish
as he was, all these things played but the parts of planets revolving around the sun of his
life--the sun of honour. To that point I always return: but a man can be conceived who shall
be splendidly honourable, yet not lovable--a man who might repel friendship. Steevens was not
of that race. Not a friend of his but loved him with a great and serious affection for those
qualities which are too often separable from the austerity of a fine character, the honour
of an upright man. His sweetness was exquisite, and this partly because it was so unexpected.
A somewhat shy and quiet manner did not prepare men for the urbanity, the tolerance, the magnanimity
that lay at the back of his heart. Generosity in thought--the rarest form of generosity that
is reared among the flowers of this sorrowful earth--was with him habitual. He could, and did,
resent at every point the qualities in men that ran counter to his principles of honour, and
he did not spare his keen irony when such things crossed his path; but, on the other side,
he loved his friends with a whole and simple heart. I think that very few men who came under
his influence refused him their love, none their admiration.

Into all that he wrote--and I shall deal later with that point in detail--his true and candid
spirit was infused. Just as in his life, in his daily actions, you were continually surprised
by his tenderness turning round the corner of his austere reserve, so in his work his sentiment
came with a curious appeal, with tender surprises, with an emotion that was all the keener
on account of the contrast that it made with the courage, the hope, and the fine manliness
of all his thought and all his word. Children, helplessness of all kinds, touched always that
merciful heart. I can scarcely think of him as a man of the world, although he had had in his
few and glorious days experience enough to harden the spirit of any man. He could never, as
I think of him, have grown into your swaggering, money-making, bargaining man of Universal
Trade. Keen and significant his policy, his ordering of his affairs must ever have been; but
the keenness and significance were the outcome, not of any cool eye to the main chance, but
of a gay sense of the pure need of logic, not only in letters but also in living.

There, again, I touch another characteristic--his feeling for logic, for dialectic, which made
him one of the severest reasoners that it would be possible to meet in argument. He used, in
his admirably assumed air of brag, an attitude which he could take with perfect humour and
perfect dignity--to protest that he was one of two or three Englishmen who had ever mastered
the philosophical systems of Germany, from Kant to Hegel, from Hegel to Schopenhauer. Though
he said it with an airy sense of fun, and almost of disparagement, I am strongly inclined to
believe that it was true. He was never satisfied with his knowledge: invariably curious, he
was guided by his joy in pure reasoning to the philosophies of the world, and in his silent,
quiet, unobtrusive way he became a master of many subjects which life was too brief in his
case to permit him to show to his friends, much less to the world.

This, it will be readily understood, is, as I have said, the merest summary of a character,
as one person has understood it. Others will reach him from other points of view. Meanwhile
Ladysmith has him--what is that phrase of his?--"You squirm between iron fingers." Fortunate
he, so far that he is at rest, squirming no longer; and with the wail on his lips, the catch
in the throat, he went down in the embrace of a deadlier enemy than the Bulwan horror, to which
he made reference in one of the last lines he was destined to write in this world. He fell
ill in that pestilent town, as all the world knows. His constitution was strong enough; he
had not lived a life of unpropitious preparation for a serious illness; but his heart was a
danger. Typhoid is fatal to any heart-weakness, particularly in convalescence; and he was caught
suddenly as he was growing towards perfect health.

I have been privileged to see certain letters written to his wife by the friend with whom he
shared his Ladysmith house during the course of his illness. "How he contracted enteric fever,"
says Mr Maud, "I cannot tell. It is unfortunately very prevalent in the camp just now. He began
to be ill on the 13th of December, but on that day the doctor was not quite sure about its
being enteric, although he at once commenced with the treatment for that disease. The following
day there was no doubt about it, and we moved him from our noisy and uncomfortable quarters
in the Imperial Light Horse Camp to our present abode, which is quite the best house in Ladysmith.
Major Henderson of the Intelligence Department very kindly offered his own room, a fine, airy,
and well-furnished apartment, although he was barely recovered of his wound. At first I could
only procure the services of a trained orderly of the 5th Dragoon Guards lent to us by the
colonel, but a few days later we were lucky enough to find a lady nurse, who has turned out
most excellently, and she takes charge at night.... I am happy to tell you that everything
has gone on splendidly".... After describing how the fever gradually approached a crisis, Mr
Maud continues: "When he was at his worst he was often delirious, but never violent; the only
trouble was to prevent him getting out of bed. He was continually asking us to go and fetch
you, and always thought he was journeying homewards. It never does to halloa before one gets
out of the wood, but I do really think that he is well on the road to recovery." Alas!

Not so much as a continued record of Steevens's illness, as in the nature of a pathetic side-issue
to the tragedy of his death, I subjoin one or two passages from a letter sent subsequently
from Ladysmith by the same faithful friend before the end: "He has withstood the storm wonderfully
well, and he is not very much pulled down. The doctor thinks that he should be about again
in a fortnight"--the letter was written on the 4th of January--"by which time I trust General
Buller will have arrived and reopened the railway. Directly it is possible to move, I shall
take him down to Nottingham Road.... There has been little or nothing to do for the last month
beyond listening to the bursting of the Long Tom shells." That touch about General Buller's
arrival is surely one of the most strangely appealing incidents in the recent history of human
confidence and human expectation! Another friend, Mr George Lynch, whose name occurred in one
of his letters in a passage curiously characteristic of Steevens's drily incisive humour, writes
about the days that must immediately have preceded his illness: "He was as fit and well as
possible when I left Ladysmith last month." (The letter is dated from Durban, January 11.)
"We were drawing rations like the soldiers, but had some '74 port and a plum-pudding which
we were keeping for Christmas Day.... Shells fell in our vicinity more or less like angels'
visits, and I had a bet with him of a dinner. I backed our house to be hit against another
which he selected; and he won. I am to pay the dinner at the Savoy when we return."

There is little more to record of the actual facts at this moment. The following cable, which
has till now remained unpublished, tells its own tale too sadly:--

     "Steevens, a few days before death, had recovered so far as to be
     able to attend to some of his journalistic duties, though still
     confined to bed. Relapse followed; he died at five in the
     afternoon. Funeral same night, leaving Carter's house (where
     Steevens was lying during illness) at 11.30. Interred in Ladysmith
     Cemetery at midnight. Night dismal, rain falling, while the moon
     attempted to pierce the black clouds. Boer searchlight from Umbala
     flashed over the funeral party, showing the way in the darkness.
     Large attendance of mourners, several officers, garrison, most
     correspondents. Chaplain M'Varish officiated."

When I read that short and simple cablegram, the thought came to my mind that if only the greater
number of modern rioters in language were compelled to hoard their words out of sheer necessity
for the cable, we should have better results from the attempts at word-painting that now cumber
the ground. And this brings me directly to a consideration of Steevens's work. In many respects,
of course, it was never, even in separate papers, completed. Journalist and scholar he was,
both. But the world was allowed to see too much of the journalist, too little of the scholar,
in what he accomplished. 'The Monologues of the Dead' was a brilliant beginning. It proved
the splendid work of the past, it presaged more splendid work for the future. And then, if
you please, he became a man of action; and a man of action, if he is to write, must perforce
be a journalist. The preparations had made it impossible that he should ever be anything else
but an extraordinary journalist; and accordingly it fell out that the combination of a wonderful
equipment of scholarship with a vigorous sense of vitality brought about a unique thing in
modern journalism. Unique, I say: the thing may be done again, it is true; but he was the pioneer,
he was the inventor, of the particular method which he practised.

I began this discussion with a reference to the spare, austere, but quite lucid message of
the cablegram announcing the death of Steevens; and I was carried on at once to a deliberate
consideration of his literary work, because that work had, despite its vigour, its vividness,
its brilliance, just the outline, the spareness, the slimness, the austerity which are so painfully
inconspicuous in the customary painter of word-pictures. Some have said that Steevens was destined
to be the Kinglake of the Transvaal. That is patently indemonstrable. His war correspondence
was not the work of a stately historian. He could, out of sheer imaginativeness, create for
himself the style of the stately historian. His "New Gibbon"--a paper which appeared in 'Blackwood's
Magazine'--is there to prove so much; but that was not the manner in which he usually wrote
about war. He was essentially a man who had visions of things. Without the time to separate
his visions into the language of pure classicism--a feat which Tennyson superlatively contrived
to accomplish--he yet took out the right details, and by skilful combination built you, in
the briefest possible space, a strongly vivid picture. If you look straight out at any scene,
you will see what all men see when they look straight out; but when you inquire curiously into
all the quarters of the compass, you will see what no man ever saw when he simply looked out
of his two eyes without regarding the here, there, and everywhere. Applied in a vastly different
way, put to vastly different uses, the visual gift of Steevens belonged to the same order of
things. Consider this passage from his Soudan book:--

     "Black spindle-legs curled up to meet red-gimleted black faces,
     donkeys headless and legless, or sieves of shrapnel; camels with
     necks writhed back on to their humps, rotting already in pools of
     blood and bile-yellow water, heads without faces, and faces without
     anything below, cobwebbed arms and legs, and black skins grilled
     to crackling on smouldering palm-leaf--don't look at it."

The writer, swinging on at the obvious pace with which this writing swings, of course has no
chance to make as flawless a picture as the great man of leisure; but the pictorial quality
of each is precisely the same. Both understood the fine art of selection.

I have sometimes wondered if I grudged to journalism what Steevens stole from letters. I have
not yet quite come to a decision; for, had he never left the groves of the academic for the
crowded career of the man of the world, we should never have known his amazing versatility,
or even a fraction of his noble character as it was published to the world. Certainly the book
to which this chapter forms a mere pendant must, in parts, stand as a new revelation no less
of the nobility of that character than of his extraordinary foresight, his wonderful instinct
for the objectiveness of life. I believe that in his earliest childhood his feeling for the
prose of geography was like Wordsworth's cataract--it "haunted him like a passion." And all
the while the subjective side of life called for the intrusion of his prying eyes. So that
you may say it was more or less pure chance that led him to give what has proved to be the
bulk of his active years to the objective side of things, the purely actual. Take, in this
very book, that which amounts practically to a prophecy of the difficulty of capturing a point
like Spion Kop, in the passage where he describes how impossible it is to judge of the value
of a hill-top until you get there. (Pope, by the way--and I state the point not from any desire
to be pedantic, but because Steevens had a classical way with him which would out, disguise
it how he might--Pope, I say, in his "Essay on Criticism," had before made the same remark.)
Then again you have in his chapter on Aliwal the curiously intimate sketch of the Boer character--"A
people hard to arouse, but, you would say, very hard to subdue." Well, it is by the objective
side of life that we have to judge him. The futility of death makes that an absolute necessity;
but I like to think of a possible George Steevens who, when the dust and sand of campaigns
and daily journalism had been wiped away from his shoon, would have combined in a great and
single-hearted career all the various powers of his fine mind.

His death, as none needs to be told, came as a great shock and with almost staggering surprise
to the world; and it is for his memory's sake that I put on record a few of the words that
were written of him by responsible people. An Oxford contemporary has written of him:--

     "I first met him at a meeting of the Russell Club at Oxford. He was
     a great light there, being hon. sec. It was in 1890, and Steevens
     had been head-boy of the City of London School, and then Senior
     Scholar at Balliol. Even at the Russell Club, then, he was regarded
     as a great man. The membership was, I think, limited to twenty--all
     Radical stalwarts. I well remember his witty comments on a paper
     advocating Women's Rights. He was at his best when opening the
     debate after some such paper. Little did that band of ardent souls
     imagine their leader would, in a few short years, be winning fame
     for a Tory halfpenny paper.

     "He sat next me at dinner, just before he graduated, and he was in
     one of those pensive moods which sometimes came over him. I believe
     he hardly spoke. In '92 he entered himself as a candidate for a
     Fellowship at Pembroke. I recollect his dropping into the
     examination-room half an hour late, while all the rest had been
     eagerly waiting outside the doors to start their papers at once.
     But what odds? He was miles ahead of them all--an easy first. It
     was rumoured in Pembroke that the new Fellow had been seen smoking
     (a pipe, too) in the quad--that the Dean had said it was really
     shocking, such a bad example to the undergraduates, and against all
     college rules. How could we expect undergraduates to be moral if Mr
     Steevens did such things? How, indeed? Then came Mr Oscar Browning
     from Cambridge, and carried off" Steevens to the 'second university
     in the kingdom,' so that we saw but little of him. Some worshipped,
     others denounced him. The Cambridge papers took sides. One spoke of
     'The Shadow' or 'The Fetish,' au contraire: another would praise
     the great Oxford genius. Whereas at Balliol Steevens was boldly
     criticised, at Cambridge he was hated or adored.

     "A few initiated friends knew that Steevens was writing for the
     'Pall Mall' and the 'Cambridge Observer,' and it soon became
     evident that journalism was to be his life-work. Last February I
     met him in the Strand, and he was much changed: no more crush hat,
     and long hair, and Bohemian manners. He was back from the East, and
     a great man now--married and settled as well--very spruce, and
     inclined to be enthusiastic about the Empire. But still I remarked
     his old indifference to criticism. Success had improved him in
     every way: this seems a common thing with Britishers. In September
     last I knocked up against him at Rennes during the Dreyfus trial.
     As I expected, Steevens kept cool: he could always see the other
     side of a question. We discussed the impending war, and he was
     eagerly looking forward to going with the troops. I dare not tell
     his views on the political question of the war. They would surprise
     most of his friends and admirers. On taking leave I bade him be
     sure to take care of himself. He said he would."

What strikes me as being peculiarly significant of a certain aspect of his character appeared
in 'The Nursing and Hospital World.' It ran in this wise--I give merely an extract:--

