It has generally been claimed that Columbus was in bitter penury and want of money, but a close
examination of the letters and other documents relating to this time show that in his last
days he was not poor in any true sense of the word.  He was probably a hundred times richer
than any of his ancestors had ever been; he had, money to give and money to spend; the banks
honoured his drafts; his credit was apparently indisputable. But compared with the fabulous
wealth to which he would by this time have been entitled if his original agreement with the
Crown of Spain had been faithfully carried out he was no doubt poor.  There is no evidence
that he lacked any comfort or alleviation that money could buy; indeed he never had any great
craving for the things that money can buy--only for money itself.  There must have been many
rich people in Spain who would gladly have entertained him in luxury and dignity; but he was
not the kind of man to set much store by such things except in so far as they were a decoration
and advertisement of his position as a great man.  He had set himself to the single task of
securing what he called his rights; and in these days of sunset he seems to have been illumined
by some glimmer of the early glory of his first inspiration.  He wanted the payment of his
dues now, not so much for his own enrichment, but as a sign to the world that his great position
as Admiral and Viceroy was recognised, so that his dignities and estates might be established
and consolidated in a form which he would be able to transmit to his remote posterity.

Since he wrote so copiously and so constantly in these last days, the best picture of his mood
and condition is afforded in his letters to his son Diego; letters which, in spite of their
infinitely wearisome recapitulation and querulous complaint, should be carefully read by those
who wish to keep in touch with the Admiral to the end.

     Letter written by CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS to DON DIEGO, his Son,
     November 21, 1504.

     "VERY DEAR SON,--I received your letter by the courier.  You did
     well in remaining yonder to remedy our affairs somewhat and to
     employ yourself now in our business.  Ever since I came to Castile,
     the Lord Bishop of Palencia has shown me favour and has desired that
     I should be honoured.  Now he must be entreated that it may please
     him to occupy himself in remedying my many grievances and in
     ordering that the agreement and letters of concession which their
     Highnesses gave me be fulfilled, and that I be indemnified for so
     many damages.  And he may be certain that if their Highnesses do
     this, their estate and greatness will be multiplied to them in an
     incredible degree.  And it must not appear to him that forty
     thousand pesos in gold is more than a representation of it; because
     they might have had a much greater quantity if Satan had not
     hindered it by impeding my design; for, when I was taken away from
     the Indies, I was prepared to give them a sum of gold incomparable
     to forty thousand pesos.  I make oath, and this may be for thee
     alone, that the damage to me in the matter of the concessions their
     Highnesses have made to me, amounts to ten millions each year, and
     never can be made good.  You see what will be, or is, the injury to
     their Highnesses in what belongs to them, and they do not perceive
     it.  I write at their disposal and will strive to start yonder.  My
     arrival and the rest is in the hands of our Lord.  His mercy is
     infinite.  What is done and is to be done, St. Augustine says is
     already done before the creation of the world.  I write also to
     these other Lords named in the letter of Diego Mendez.  Commend me
     to their mercy and tell them of my going as I have said above.  For
     certainly I feel great fear, as the cold is so inimical to this, my
     infirmity, that I may have to remain on the road.

     "I was very much pleased to hear the contents of your letter and
     what the King our Lord said, for which you kissed his royal hands.
     It is certain that I have served their Highnesses with as much
     diligence and love as though it had been to gain Paradise, and more,
     and if I have been at fault in anything it has been because it was
     impossible or because my knowledge and strength were not sufficient.
     God, our Lord, in such a case, does not require more from persons
     than the will.

     "At the request of the Treasurer Morales, I left two brothers in the
     Indies, who are called Porras.  The one was captain and the other
     auditor.  Both were without capacity for these positions: and I was
     confident that they could fill them, because of love for the person
     who sent them to me.  They both became more vain than they had been.
     I forgave them many incivilities, more than I would do with a
     relation, and their offences were such that they merited another
     punishment than a verbal reprimand.  Finally they reached such a
     point that even had I desired, I could not have avoided doing what I
     did.  The records of the case will prove whether I lie or not.  They
     rebelled on the island of Jamaica, at which I was as much astonished
     as I would be if the sun's rays should cast darkness.  I was at the
     point of death, and they martyrised me with extreme cruelty during
     five months and without cause.  Finally I took them all prisoners,
     and immediately set them free, except the captain, whom I was
     bringing as a prisoner to their Highnesses.  A petition which they
     made to me under oath, and which I send you with this letter, will
     inform you at length in regard to this matter, although the records
     of the case explain it fully.  These records and the Notary are
     coming on another vessel, which I am expecting from day to day.  The
     Governor in Santo Domingo took this prisoner.--His courtesy
     constrained him to do this.  I had a chapter in my instructions in
     which their Highnesses ordered all to obey me, and that I should
     exercise civil and criminal justice over all those who were with me:
     but this was of no avail with the Governor, who said that it was not
     understood as applying in his territory.  He sent the prisoner to
     these Lords who have charge of the Indies without inquiry or record
     or writing.  They did not receive him, and both brothers go free.
     It is not wonderful to me that our Lord punishes.  They went there
     with shameless faces.  Such wickedness or such cruel treason were
     never heard of.  I wrote to their Highnesses about this matter in
     the other letter, and said that it was not right for them to consent
     to this offence.  I also wrote to the Lord Treasurer that I begged
     him as a favour not to pass sentence on the testimony given by these
     men until he heard me.  Now it will be well for you to remind him of
     it anew.  I do, not know how they dare to go before him with such an
     undertaking.  I have written to him about it again and have sent him
     the copy of the oath, the same as I send to you and likewise to
     Doctor Angulo and the Licentiate Zapata.  I commend myself to the
     mercy of all, with the information that my departure yonder will
     take place in a short time.

     "I would be glad to receive a letter from their Highnesses and to
     know what they order.  You must procure such a letter if you see the
     means of so doing.  I also commend myself to the Lord Bishop and to
     Juan Lopez, with the reminder of illness and of the reward for my
     services.

     "You must read the letters which go with this one in order to act in
     conformity with what they say.  Acknowledge the receipt of his
     letter to Diego Mendez.  I do not write him as he will learn
     everything from you, and also because my illness prevents it.

     "It would be well for Carbajal and Jeronimo--[Jeronimo de Aguero, a
     landowner in Espanola and a friend of Columbus]--to be at the-Court
     at this time, and talk of our affairs with these Lords and with the
     Secretary.

     "Done in Seville, November 21.

     "Your father who loves you more than himself.

                                                    .S.
                                                  .S.A.S.
                                                    XMY
                                                 Xpo FERENS."

     "I wrote again to their Highnesses entreating them to order that
     these people who went with me should be paid, because they are poor
     and it is three years since they left their homes.  The news which
     they bring is more than extraordinary.  They have endured infinite
     dangers and hardships.  I did not wish to rob the country, so as not
     to cause scandal, because reason advises its being populated, and
     then gold will be obtained freely without scandal.  Speak of this to
     the Secretary and to the Lord Bishop and to Juan Lopez and to
     whomever you think it advisable to do so."

The Bishop of Palencia referred to in this letter is probably Bishop Fonseca--probably, because
it is known that he did become Bishop of Palencia, although there is a difference of opinion
among historians as to whether the date of his translation to that see was before or after
this letter.  No matter, except that one is glad to think that an old enemy--for Fonseca and
Columbus had bitter disagreements over the fitting out of various expeditions--had shown himself
friendly at last.

     Letter written by CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS to DON DIEGO, November 28,
     1504.

     "VERY DEAR SON,--I received your letters of the 15th of this month.
     It is eight days since I wrote you and sent the letter by a courier.
     I enclosed unsealed letters to many other persons, in order that you
     might see them, and having read them, seal and deliver them.
     Although this illness of mine troubles me greatly, I am preparing
     for my departure in every way.  I would very much like to receive
     the reply from their Highnesses and wish you might procure it: and
     also I wish that their Highnesses would provide for the payment of
     these poor people, who have passed through incredible hardships and
     have brought them such great news that infinite thanks should be
     given to God, our Lord, and they should rejoice greatly over it.
     If I [lie ?] the 'Paralipomenon'--[ The Book of Chronicles]--and
     the Book of Kings and the Antiquities of Josephus, with very many
     others, will tell what they know of this.  I hope in our Lord to
     depart this coming week, but you must not write less often on that
     account.  I have not heard from Carbajal and Jeronimo.  If they are
     there, commend me to them.  The time is such that both Carbajals
     ought to be at Court, if illness does not prevent them.  My regards
     to Diego Mendez.

     "I believe that his truth and efforts will be worth as much as the
     lies of the Porras brothers.  The bearer of this letter is Martin de
     Gamboa.  I am sending by him a letter to Juan Lopez and a letter of
     credit.  Read the letter to Lopez and then give it to him.  If you
     write me, send the letters to Luis de Soria that he may send them
     wherever I am, because if I go in a litter, I believe it will be by
     La Plata.--[The old Roman road from Merida to Salamanca.]--May our
     Lord have you in His holy keeping.  Your uncle has been very sick
     and is now, from trouble with his jaws and his teeth.

     "Done in Seville, November 28.

     "Your father who loves you more than himself.

                                                    .S.
                                                  .S.A.S.
                                                    XMY
                                                 Xpo FERENS."

Bartholomew Columbus and Ferdinand were remaining with Christopher at Seville; Bartholomew
probably very nearly as ill as the Admiral, although we do not hear so many complaints about
it.  At any rate Diego, being ay Court, was the great mainstay of his father; and you can see
the sick man sitting there alone with his grievances, and looking to the next generation for
help in getting them redressed.  Diego, it is to be feared, did not receive these letters with
so much patience and attention as he might have shown, nor did he write back to his invalid
father with the fulness and regularity which the old man craved.  It is a fault common to sons.
Those who are sons will know that it does not necessarily imply lack of affection on Diego's
part; those who are fathers will realise how much Christopher longed for verbal assurance of
interest and affection, even though he did not doubt their reality.  News of the serious illness
of Queen Isabella had evidently reached Columbus, and was the chief topic of public interest.

     Letter written by CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS to DON DIEGO, his Son,
     December 1, 1504.

     "VERY DEAR SON,--Since I received your letter of November 15 I have
     heard nothing from you.  I wish that you would write me more
     frequently.  I would like to receive a letter from you each hour.
     Reason must tell you that now I have no other repose.  Many couriers
     come each day, and the news is of such a nature and so abundant that
     on hearing it all my hair stands on end; it is so contrary to what
     my soul desires.  May it please the Holy Trinity to give health to
     the Queen, our Lady, that she may settle what has already been
     placed under discussion.  I wrote you by another courier Thursday,
     eight days ago.  The courier must already be on his way back here.
     I told you in that letter that my departure was certain, but that
     the hope of my arrival there, according to experience, was very
     uncertain, because my sickness is so bad, and the cold is so well
     suited to aggravate it, that I could not well avoid remaining in
     some inn on the road.  The litter and everything were ready.  The
     weather became so violent that it appeared impossible to every one
     to start when it was getting so bad, and that it was better for so
     well-known a person as myself to take care of myself and try to
     regain my health rather than place myself in danger.  I told you in
     those letters what I now say, that you decided well in remaining
     there (at such a time), and that it was right to commence occupying
     yourself with our affairs; and reason strongly urges this.  It
     appears to me that a good copy should be made of the chapter of that
     letter which their Highnesses wrote me where they say they will
     fulfil their promises to me and will place you in possession of
     everything: and that this copy should be given to them with another
     writing telling of my sickness, and that it is now impossible for me
     to go and kiss their Royal feet and hands, and that the Indies are
     being lost, and are on fire in a thousand places, and that I have
     received nothing, and am receiving nothing, from the revenues
     derived from them, and that no one dares to accept or demand
     anything there for me, and I am living upon borrowed funds.  I spent
     the money which I got there in bringing those people who went with
     me back to their homes, for it would be a great burden upon my
     conscience to have left them there and to have abandoned them.  This
     must be made known to the Lord Bishop of Palencia, in whose favour
     I have so much confidence, and also to the Lord Chamberlain.
     I believed that Carbajal and Jeronimo would be there at such a time.
     Our Lord is there, and He will order everything as He knows it to be
     best for us.

     "Carbajal reached here yesterday.  I wished to send him immediately
     with this same order, but he excused himself profusely, saying that
     his wife was at the point of death.  I shall see that he goes,
     because he knows a great deal about these affairs.  I will also
     endeavour to have your brother and your uncle go to kiss the hands
     of Their Highnesses, and give them an account of the voyage if my
     letters are not sufficient.  Take good care of your brother.  He has
     a good disposition, and is no longer a boy.  Ten brothers would not
     be too many for you.  I never found better friends to right or to
     left than my brothers.  We must strive to obtain the government of
     the Indies and then the adjustment of the revenues.  I gave you a
     memorandum which told you what part of them belongs to me.  What
     they gave to Carbajal was nothing and has turned to nothing.
     Whoever desires to do so takes merchandise there, and so the eighth
     is nothing, because, without contributing the eighth, I could send
     to trade there without rendering account or going in company with
     any one.  I said a great many times in the past that the
     contribution of the eighth would come to nothing.  The eighth and
     the rest belongs to me by reason of the concession which their
     Highnesses made to me, as set forth in the book of my Privileges,
     and also the third and the tenth.  Of the tenth I received nothing,
     except the tenth of what their Highnesses receive; and it must be
     the tenth of all the gold and other things which are found and
     obtained, in whatever manner it may be, within this Admiralship, and
     the tenth of all the merchandise which goes and comes from there,
     after the expenses are deducted.  I have already said that in the
     Book of Privileges the reason for this and for the rest which is
     before the Tribunal of the Indies here in Seville, is clearly set
     forth.

     "We must strive to obtain a reply to my letter from their
     Highnesses, and to have them order that these people be paid.  I
     wrote in regard to this subject four days ago, and sent the letter
     by Martin de Gamboa, and you must have seen the letter of Juan Lopez
     with your own.

     "It is said here that it has been ordered that three or four Bishops
     of the Indies shall be sent or created, and that this matter is
     referred to the Lord Bishop of Palencia.  After having commended me
     to his Worship, tell him that I believe it will best serve their
     Highnesses for me to talk with him before this matter is settled.

     "Commend me to Diego Mendez, and show him this letter.  My illness
     permits me to write only at night, because in the daytime my hands
     are deprived of strength.  I believe that a son of Francisco Pinelo
     will carry this letter.  Entertain him well, because he does
     everything for me that he can, with much love and a cheerful
     goodwill.  The caravel which broke her mast in starting from Santo
     Domingo has arrived in the Algarves.  She brings the records of the
     case of the Porras brothers.  Such ugly things and such grievous
     cruelty as appear in this matter never were seen.  If their
     Highnesses do not punish it, I do not know who will dare to go out
     in their service with people.

