Sometimes these imaginative responses are given by very bright subjects, under the impression
that they are asked to "make up" a story based on the picture. We may score them plus, provided
they are not too much out of harmony with the situation and actions represented in the picture.
Interpretations so gratuitous as to have little or no bearing upon the scene depicted should
be scored minus.

REMARKS. The test of picture interpretation has been variously located from 12 to 15 years.
It cannot be too strongly emphasized that everything depends on the nature of the pictures
used, the form in which the question is put, and the standard for scoring. The Jingleman-Jack
pictures used by Kuhlmann are as easy to interpret at 10 years as the Stanford pictures at
12. Spontaneous interpretation ("What is this a picture of?" or "What do you see in this picture?")
comes no more readily at 14 years than provoked interpretation ("Explain this picture") at
12. The standard of scoring is no less important. If with the Stanford pictures we require
three satisfactory responses out of four, the test belongs at the 12-year level, but the standard
of two correct out of four can be met a year or two earlier.

Even after we have agreed upon a given series of pictures, the formula for giving the test,
and upon the requisite number of passes, there remains still the question as to the proper
degree of liberality in deciding what constitutes interpretation. There is no single point
in mental development where the "ability to interpret pictures" sweeps in with a rush. Like
the development of most other abilities, it comes by slow degrees, beginning even as early
as 6 years.

The question is, therefore, to decide whether a given response contains as much and as good
interpretation as we have a right to expect at the age level where the test has been placed.
It is imperative for any one who would use the scale correctly to acquaint himself thoroughly
with the procedure and standards described above.

XII, 8. GIVING SIMILARITIES, THREE THINGS

PROCEDURE.

As before, a little tactful urging is occasionally necessary in order to secure a response.

SCORING. Three satisfactory responses out of five are necessary for success. Any real similarity
is acceptable, whether fundamental or superficial, although the giving of fundamental likenesses
is especially symptomatic of good intelligence.

Failures may be classified under four heads: (1) Leaving one of the words out of consideration;
(2) giving a difference instead of a similarity; (3) giving a similarity that is not real or
that is too bizarre or far-fetched; and (4) inability to respond. Types (1), (3), and (4) are
almost equally numerous, while type (2) is not often encountered at this level of intelligence.

This test provokes doubtful responses somewhat oftener than the earlier test of giving similarities.
Those giving greatest difficulty are the indefinite statements like "All are useful," "All
are made of the same material," etc. Fortunately, in most of these cases an additional question
is sufficient to determine whether the subject has in mind a real similarity. Questions suitable
for this purpose are: "Explain what you mean," "In what respect are they all useful?" "What
material do you mean?" etc. Of course it is only permissible to make use of supplementary questions
of this kind when they are necessary in order to clarify a response which has already been made.

While the amateur examiner is likely to have more or less trouble in deciding upon scores,
this difficulty rapidly disappears with experience. The following samples of satisfactory and
unsatisfactory responses will serve as a fairly adequate guide in dealing with doubtful cases:--

(a) Snake, cow, sparrow

    Satisfactory. "All are animals" (or creatures, etc.). "All
    live on the land." "All have blood" (or flesh, bones, eyes,
    skin, etc.). "All move about." "All breathe air." "All are
    useful" (plus only if subject can give a use which they have
    in common). "All have a little intelligence" (or sense,
    instinct, etc.).

    Unsatisfactory. "All have legs." "All are dangerous." "All
    feed on grain" (or grass, etc.). "All are much afraid of man."
    "All frighten you." "All are warm-blooded." "All get about the
    same way." "All walk on the ground." "All can bite." "All
    holler." "All drink water." "A snake crawls, a cow walks, and a
    sparrow flies" (or some other difference). "They are not alike."

(b) Book, teacher, newspaper

    Satisfactory. "All teach." "You learn from all." "All give you
    information." "All help you get an education." "All are your
    good friends" (plus if subject can explain how). "All are
    useful" (plus if subject can explain how).

    Unsatisfactory. "All tell you the news." "A teacher writes,
    and a book and newspaper have writing." "They are not alike."
    "All read." "All use the alphabet."

(c) Wool, cotton, leather

    Satisfactory. "All used for clothing." "We wear them all."
    "All grow" (plus if subject can explain). "All have to be sent
    to the factory to be made into things." "All are useful" (plus
    if subject can give a use which all have in common). "All are
    valuable" (plus if explained).

    Unsatisfactory. "All come from plants." "All grow on animals."
    "All came off the top of something." "All are things." "They are
    pretty." "All spell alike." "All are furry" (or soft, hard,
    etc.).

(d) Knife-blade, penny, piece of wire

    Satisfactory. "All are made from minerals" (or metals). "All
    come from mines." "All are hard material."

    Unsatisfactory. "All are made of steel" (or copper, iron,
    etc.). "All are made of the same metal." "All cut." "All bend
    easily." "All are used in building a house." "All are
    worthless." "All are useful in fixing things." "All have an
    end." "They are small." "All weigh the same." "Can get them all
    at a hardware store." "You can buy things with all of them."
    "You buy them with money." "One is sharp, one is round, and one
    is long" (or some other difference).

    Such answers as "All are found in a boy's pocket," or "Boys like
    them," are not altogether bad, but hardly deserve to be called
    satisfactory. "All are useful" is minus unless the subject can
    give a use which they have in common, which in this case he is
    not likely to do. Bizarre uses are also minus; as, "All are
    good for a watch fob," "Can use all for paper weights," etc.

(e) Rose, potato, tree

    Satisfactory. "All are plants." "All grow from the ground."
    "All have leaves" (or roots, etc.). "All have to be planted."
    "All are parts of nature." "All have colors."

    Unsatisfactory. "All are pretty." "All bear fruit." "All have
    pretty flowers." "All grow on bushes." "All are valuable" (or
    useful). "They grow close to a house." "All are ornamental."
    "All are shrubbery."

REMARKS. The words of each series lend themselves readily to classification into a next higher
class. This is the best type of response, but with most of the series it accounts for less
than two thirds of the successes among subjects of 12-year intelligence. The proportion is
less than one third for subjects of 10-year intelligence and nearly three fourths at the 14-year
level. It would be possible and very desirable to devise and standardize an additional test
of this kind, but requiring the giving of an essential resemblance or classificatory similarity.

For discussion of the psychological factors involved in the similarities test, see VII, 5.

CHAPTER XVIII

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR XIV.

XIV, 1. VOCABULARY (FIFTY DEFINITIONS, 9000 WORDS)

PROCEDURE and SCORING, as in VIII, X, and XII. At year XIV fifty words must be correctly defined.

XIV, 2. INDUCTION TEST: FINDING A RULE

PROCEDURE. Provide six sheets of thin blank paper, say 8½ × 11 inches. Take the first sheet,
and telling the subject to watch what you do, fold it once, and in the middle of the folded
edge tear out or cut out a small notch; then ask the subject to tell you how many holes there
will be in the paper when it is unfolded. The correct answer, one, is nearly always given without
hesitation. But whatever the answer, unfold the paper and hold it up broadside for the subject's
inspection. Next, take another sheet, fold it once as before and say: "Now, when we folded
it this way and tore out a piece, you remember it made one hole in the paper. This time we
will give the paper another fold and see how many holes we shall have." Then proceed to fold
the paper again, this time in the other direction, and tear out a piece from the folded side
and ask how many holes there will be when the paper is unfolded. After recording the answer,
unfold the paper, hold it up before the subject so as to let him see the result. The answer
is often incorrect and the unfolded sheet is greeted with an exclamation of surprise. The governing
principle is seldom made out at this stage of the experiment. But regardless of the correctness
or incorrectness of the first and second answers, proceed with the third sheet. Fold it once
and say: "When we folded it this way there was one hole." Then fold it again and say: "And
when we folded it this way there were two holes." At this point fold the paper a third time
and say: "Now, I am folding it again. How many holes will it have this time when I unfold it?"
Record the answer and again unfold the paper while the subject looks on.

Continue in the same manner with sheets four, five, and six, adding one fold each time. In
folding each sheet recapitulate the results with the previous sheets, saying (with the sixth,
for example): "When we folded it this way there was one hole, when we folded it again there
were two, when we folded it again there were four, when we folded it again there were eight,
when we folded it again there were sixteen; now, tell me how many holes there will be if we
fold it once more." In the recapitulation avoid the expression "When we folded it once, twice,
three times," etc., as this often leads the subject to double the numeral heard instead of
doubling the number of holes in the previously folded sheet. After the answer is given, do
not fail to unfold the paper and let the subject view the result.

SCORING. The test is passed if the rule is grasped by the time the sixth sheet is reached;
that is, the subject may pass after five incorrect responses, provided the sixth is correct
and the governing rule can then be given. It is not permissible to ask for the rule until all
six parts of the experiment have been given. Nothing must be said which could even suggest
the operation of a rule. Often, however, the subject grasps the principle after two or three
steps and gives it spontaneously. In this case it is unnecessary to proceed with the remaining
steps.

REMARKS. This test was first used by the writer in a comparative study of the intellectual
processes of bright and dull boys in 1905, but it was not standardized until 1914. Rather extensive
data indicate that it is a genuine test of intelligence. Of 14-year-old school children testing
between 96 and 105 I Q, 59 per cent passed this test; of 14-year-olds testing below 96 I Q,
41 per cent passed; of those testing above 105, 71 per cent passed. That is, the test agrees
well with the results obtained by the scale as a whole. Of "average adults" only 10 per cent
fail; and of "superior adults," fewer than 5 per cent. As a rule, the higher the grade of intelligence,
the fewer the steps necessary for grasping the rule. Of the superior adults, only 35 per cent
fail to get the rule as early as the end of the fourth step.

The test is little affected by schooling, and apart from differences in intelligence it is
little influenced by age. Other advantages of the test are the keen interest it always arouses
and its independence of language ability. It has been used successfully with immigrant subjects
who had been in this country but a few months.

We have named the experiment an "induction test." It might be supposed that the solution would
ordinarily be arrived at by deduction, or by an a-priori logical analysis of the principle
involved. This, however, is rarely the case. Not one average adult out of ten reasons out the
situation in this purely logical manner. It is ordinarily only after one or more mistakes have
been made and have been exposed by the examiner holding up the unfolded paper to view that
the correct principle is grasped. In the absence of deductive reasoning the subject must note
that each unfolded sheet contains twice as many holes as the previous one, and must infer that
folding the paper again will again double the number. The ability tested is the ability to
generalize from particulars where the common element of the particulars can be discerned only
by the selective action of attention, in this case attention to the fact that each number is
the double of its predecessor.

XIV, 3. GIVING DIFFERENCES BETWEEN A PRESIDENT AND A KING

PROCEDURE. Say: "There are three main differences between a president and a king; what are
they?" If the subject stops after one difference is given, we urge him on, if possible, until
three are given.

SCORING. The three differences relate to power, tenure, and manner of accession. Only these
differences are considered correct, and the successful response must include at least two of
the three. We disregard crudities of expression and note merely whether the subject has the
essential idea. As regards power, for example, any of the following responses are satisfactory:
"The king is absolute and the president is not." "The king rules by himself, but the president
rules with the help of the people." "Kings can have things their own way more than presidents
can," etc.

It may be objected that the reverse of this is sometimes true, that the king of to-day often
has less power than the average president. Sometimes subjects mention this fact, and when they
do we credit them with this part of the test. As a matter of fact, however, this answer is
seldom given.

Sometimes the subject does not stop until he has given a half-dozen or more differences, and
in such cases the first three differences may be trivial and some of the later ones essential.
The question then arises whether we should disregard the errors and pass the subject on his
later correct responses. The rule in such cases is to ask the subject to pick out the "three
main differences."

Sometimes accession and tenure are given in the form of a single contrast, as: "The president
is elected, but the king inherits his throne and rules for life." This answer entitles the
subject to credit for both accession and tenure, the contrast as regards tenure being plainly
implied.

Unsatisfactory contrasts are of many kinds and are often amusing. Some of the most common are
the following:--

    "A king wears a crown." "A king has jewels." "A king sits on a
    throne." ("A king sets on a thorn" as one feeble-minded boy put
    it!) "A king lives in a palace." "A king has courtiers." "A king
    is very dignified." "A king dresses up more." "A president has
    less pomp and ceremony." "A president is more ready to receive
    the people." "A king sits on a chair all the time and a
    president does not." "No differences; it's just names." "A
    president does not give titles." "A king has a larger salary."
    "A king has royal blood." "A king is in more danger." "They have
    a different title." "A king is more cruel." "Kings have people
    beheaded." "A king rules in a monarchy and a president in a
    republic." "A king rules in a foreign country." "A president is
    elected and a king fights for his office." "A president appoints
    governors and a king does not." "A president lets the lawyers
    make the laws." "Everybody works for a king."

It is surprising to see how often trivial differences like the above are given. About thirty
"average adults" out of a hundred, including high-school students, give at least one unsatisfactory
contrast.

The test has been criticized as depending too much on schooling. The criticism is to a certain
extent valid when the test is used with young subjects, say of 10 or 12 years. It is not valid,
however, if the use of the test is confined to older subjects. With the latter, it is not a
test of knowledge, but of the discriminative capacity to deal with knowledge already in the
possession of the subject. It would be difficult to find an adult, not actually feeble-minded,
who is ignorant of the facts called for: That the king inherits his throne, while the president
is elected; that the tenure of the king is for life, and that of the president for a term of
years; that kings ordinarily have, or are supposed to have, more power. Even the relatively
stupid adult knows this; but he also knows that kings are different from presidents in having
crowns, thrones, palaces, robes, courtiers, larger pay, etc., and he makes no discrimination
as regards the relative importance of these differences.

The test is psychologically related to that of giving differences in year VII and to the two
tests of finding similarities; but it differs from these in requiring a comparison based on
fundamental rather than accidental distinctions. The idea is good and should be worked out
in additional tests of the same type.

The test first appeared in the Binet revised scale of 1911. Kuhlmann omits it, and besides
our own there are few statistics bearing on it. Our results show that if two essential differences
are required, the test belongs where we have placed it, but that if only one essential difference
is required, the test is easy enough for year XII.

XIV, 4. PROBLEM QUESTIONS

PROCEDURE. Say to the subject: "Listen, and see if you can understand what I read." Then read
the following three problems, rather slowly and with expression, pausing after each long enough
for the subject to find an answer:--

  (a) "A man who was walking in the woods near a city stopped
      suddenly, very much frightened, and then ran to the nearest
      policeman, saying that he had just seen hanging from the limb
      of a tree a ... a what?"
  (b) "My neighbor has been having queer visitors. First a doctor
      came to his house, then a lawyer, then a minister (preacher or
      priest). What do you think happened there?"
  (c) "An Indian who had come to town for the first time in his
      life saw a white man riding along the street. As the white man
      rode by, the Indian said--'The white man is lazy; he walks
      sitting down.' What was the white man riding on that caused
      the Indian to say, 'He walks sitting down'?"

Do not ask questions calculated to draw out the correct response, but wait in silence for the
subject's spontaneous answer. It is permissible, however, to re-read the passage if the subject
requests it.

SCORING. Two responses out of three must be satisfactory. The following explanations and examples
will make clear the requirements of the test:--

(a) What the man saw hanging

    Satisfactory. The only correct answer for the first is "A man
    who had hung himself" (or who had committed suicide, been
    hanged, etc.). We may also pass the following answer: "Dead
    branches that looked like a man hanging."

    A good many subjects answer simply, "A man." This answer cannot
    be scored because of the impossibility of knowing what is in the
    subject's mind, and in such cases it is always necessary to say:
    "Explain what you mean." The answer to this interrogation
    always enables us to score the response.

    Unsatisfactory. There is an endless variety of failures: "A
    snake," "A monkey," "A robber," or "A tramp" being the most
    common. Others include such answers as "A bear," "A tiger," "A
    wild cat," "A cat," "A bird," "An eagle," "A bird's nest," "A
    hornet's nest," "A leaf," "A swing," "A boy in a swing," "A
    basket of flowers," "An egg," "A ghost," "A white sheet,"
    "Clothes," "A purse," etc.

(b) My neighbor

    Satisfactory. The expected answer is "A death," "Some one has
    died," etc. We must always check up this response, however, by
    asking what the lawyer came for, and this must also be answered
    correctly.

    While it is expected that the subject will understand that the
    doctor came to attend a sick person, the lawyer to make his
    will, and the minister to preach the funeral, there are a few
    other ingenious interpretations which pass as satisfactory. For
    example, "A man got hurt in an accident; the doctor came to make
    him well, the lawyer to see about damages, and then he died and
    the preacher came for the funeral." Or, "A man died, the lawyer
    came to help the widow settle the estate and the preacher came
    for the funeral." We can hardly expect the 14-year-old child to
    know that it is not the custom to settle an estate until after
    the funeral.

    The following excellent response was given by an enlightened
    young eugenist: "A marriage; the doctor came to examine them and
    see if they were fit to marry, the lawyer to arrange the
    marriage settlement, and the minister to marry them." The
    following logical responses occurred once each: "A murder. The
    doctor came to examine the body, the lawyer to get evidence, and
    the preacher to preach the funeral." "An unmarried girl has
    given birth to a child. The lawyer was employed to get the man
    to marry her and then the preacher came to perform the wedding
    ceremony." Perhaps some will consider this interpretation too
    far-fetched to pass. But it is perfectly logical and,
    unfortunately, represents an occurrence which is not so very
    rare.

    If an incorrect answer is first given and then corrected, the
    correction is accepted.

    Unsatisfactory. The failures again are quite varied, but are
    most frequently due to failure to understand the lawyer's
    mission. Of 66 tabulated failures, 26 are accounted for in this
    way, while only 6 are due to inability to state the part played
    by the minister. The most common incorrect responses are: "A
    baby born" (accounting for 5 out of 66 failures); "A divorce"
    (very common with the children tested by Dr. Ordahl, at Reno,
    Nevada!); "A marriage"; "A divorce and a remarriage"; "A
    dinner"; "An entertainment"; "Some friends came to chat," etc.
    In 20 failures out of 66, marriage was incorrectly connected
    with a will, a divorce, the death of a child, etc.

