"We can go scout pace here," said Lew over his shoulder, and suiting his action to his words,
he broke into a trot. Fifty steps he went at that gait, then walked fifty. Then he ran fifty
more. So they went down the mountain in a mere fraction of the time it had taken them to ascend.
But long before they reached the bottom, Lew dropped back to a steady walk.

"We've got to save our wind for the climb up Old Ironsides," he said over his shoulder.

It was well he did so. Before them a long, high mountain stretched across their way, like a
giant caterpillar. No notch cut through its rugged side, to give an easy way to the valley
beyond. Only by climbing directly over the rugged monster could the two boys reach the snug
little valley on its far side, where they expected to find the trout teeming tinder the dark
pines. Old Ironsides was the rocky barrier that confronted them. Even Stone Mountain was not
more rugged and rocky. Like Stone Mountain it seemed to be a mammoth rock pile. Rocks of every
size and description covered its steep slope. Mostly the mountain was shaded by a good stand
of second-growth timber; but in places there were vast areas of rounded stones, like flattish
heaps of potatoes, that for acres covered the soil of the hill so deeply as to prevent all
plant growth. Old Ironsides could have been called Stone Mountain as appropriately as its neighbor,
for truly it was rock-ribbed. But the stones on its slopes, unlike those of Stone Mountain,
contained a small percentage of iron. Hence its name. The nearer slope of this hill was as
dry as it was stony. Not a spring or the tiniest trickle of water wet its rocky side for miles.
But part way down the farther slope a splendid stream gushed forth among the rocks. It was
this spring, or the stream issuing from it, that Charley and Lew hoped to reach before they
made their camp for the night.

Thanks to the work of the forest rangers in clearing the fire trail, it looked as though the
two boys would reach their goal before dark. Could they have gone straight up the slope of
Old Ironsides, they would have come almost directly to the spring itself. But the grade was
far too steep to permit that. They would have to zigzag up the hill and find the stream after
they topped the crest. Because of the peculiar formation of the land below this spring, the
water did not run directly down the hill toward the bottom, but flowed off to one side and
made its way diagonally down the slope.

At the bottom of the fire trail Lew and Charley sat down and rested for five minutes. Then
they began their difficult climb upward. And difficult it was. There was no semblance of a
path. The way led over jagged masses of rock, through dense little stands of trees, and among
growths that were hard to penetrate because of their very thinness; for where the stand was
sparse the trees had many low limbs to catch and trip and pull at those who sought to pass through.

There were great areas of bare stones to be crossed--stones rounded and weathered by the elements
through thousands of years, and finally heaped together like flattish piles of pumpkins on
a barn floor. Acres and acres were covered by these great deposits of rounded, lichened rocks.

In crossing these rocky areas it was necessary to use the greatest caution. Many of the stones
rested so insecurely that the slightest pressure would send them rolling downward. If one stone
started, others might follow, and great numbers of rocks might go rushing down the hill as
coal pours down a chute into a cellar. Serious injury was certain to result if either of the
lads got caught in such a slide; for some of the stones in these piles weighed hundreds of pounds.

Rattlesnakes constituted a second danger. The mountains hereabout were full of them. One never
could tell at what instant a rattler might be found lying among the stones, or coiled on a
flat rock that had been warmed by the sun. So like the rocks themselves in color were these
snakes that in the dull light it would have been easily possible to step on one of them without
seeing it. So the two boys advanced slowly and cautiously across these barren stretches, stepping
gingerly on stones that looked insecure and ever keeping a sharp watch for anything that might
suggest snakes.

Up they went and still upward. Across bare rock patches, through brushy growths and among dense
stands of young trees, the two boys forced their way, ever ascending, ever working upward toward
the summit. Now they made their way to the right, now to the left, and sometimes they climbed
straight upward in their efforts to avoid obstacles.

"Gee!" cried Charley after they had been climbing for some time. "This is what I call tough
going. Let's have a drink."

They sat down on a stone to rest. Perspiration was pouring down their faces. Both boys were
breathing hard. The canteen was uncorked and they took a good drink.

"Not too much," cautioned Lew, as Charley started to take a second draught. "You can't climb
if you fill up too full."

After a short rest they went on again. The way grew rockier. There were fewer piles of loose
stones, but more outcropping rocks, the bare bones of the earth. Constantly the light dwindled.
Their progress grew slower. From time to time they paused to drink and rest.

"We're never going to make it before dark," said Charley, again pausing to get his breath.
He took a drink and passed the canteen to his companion.

"Then we'll have to make it after dark," said Lew. "For the canteen is about empty and we've
got to have water. I'm so thirsty I could drink a gallon."

They said no more, but pushed ahead as fast as their weary legs would carry them.

"We're not far from the top now," Lew said after a time. "I see our old landmark over to the
left. It isn't more than half a mile from that to the water. We'll make it all right."

But he had hardly gone fifty yards before he stopped and cried out. Before him lay a blackened,
desolate area that stretched the remainder of the way to the summit. Fire had swept over the
spot. But it was not the fact that fire had been through the region that made Lew cry out.
Fire and subsequent storms had practically leveled the stand of trees between the spot where
Lew stood and the summit. Here and there a blackened tree thrust its bare trunk upward, limbless,
its top gone, a ragged, spectral, pitiful remnant of what had been a beautiful tree. But mostly
the thick stand of young poles had been laid low even as a scythe levels a field of grain.
And these fallen poles lay in almost impassable confusion, twisted and tangled and in places
heaped in towering masses. A barbed wire entanglement would hardly have been a worse obstacle.
To penetrate the mass, even in the light of noon, would have been no easy work; but to cross
the area now, with dusk fast deepening to darkness, was indeed a difficult task.

"Well," said Lew, after a few searching glances at the burned area, "we've got to go on, and
we might as well plow straight through it. I can't see that one way looks any easier than another."

They went on, slowly, painfully. Now they were forced to crawl underneath a fallen tree, now
to climb over one. Again and again their way was completely blocked by high barriers of interlocked
trunks and branches. Sometimes they had to mount the fallen trunks and cautiously walk from
one to another. Darkness came on apace. They could hardly see. The flash-light was brought
forth, the last drop in the canteen swallowed, and they started forward on their final push.

"It's only a few hundred yards to the top, now," said Lew. "It will be easier going down the
other side."

Painfully slow was their progress. More than once each of them tripped and fell. The sharp
ends of the broken branches tore their clothes and scratched them badly. But silently, doggedly,
they pushed on. At last there remained but one barrier between them and the summit. It was
a great pile of fallen trunks that had no visible ending. There was nothing to do but go over
it. From one log to another they scrambled up, each helping the other, advancing a foot at
a time, feeling the way with hands and feet and searching out a path with the little light.
So high were the trees piled that at times the boys walked ten feet in air, making their way
gingerly along the slender trunks. Eventually they got beyond the log barrier and the remainder
of the way to the top was more open. At last they stood on the very summit.

"I wonder where our landmark is," queried Lew, flashing his light this way and that. "I understand
now why we saw it so plainly from below. There were no standing trees to hide it. We never
saw it from so far away before."

The landmark was a great, upright rock like a huge chimney. It was not far distant and presently
Lew found it. The boys made their way to it.

"Now," said Lew, with a sigh of relief, "we go straight down. We should come to the brook flowing
from the spring in a few minutes. We'll have to make it soon or I'll die of thirst."

They started down the slope. The fire had swept over the summit and the way before them was
like the area they had just crossed. But they were now going down-hill and it was far easier
to force their way. A few yards at a time they advanced, now held back by a fallen log or turned
aside by dense entanglements of prostrate trunks.

Presently Lew gave a cry. "Do you see that big stone like an altar, Charley?" he called, turning
the light on a great rock. "That's the stone where we made our fire the last time we were here.
It stands within twenty-five feet of the brook."

"Thank goodness!" answered Charley. "My back is about broken. This pack weighs a ton! And I'll
die if I don't get water soon."

Recklessly they pushed forward, almost running in their eager haste.

"Here we are," exulted Lew, a moment later. "Here's the brook."

Before him he could dimly make out the depression in the earth where the stream ran. He dropped
his pack and ran forward, then threw himself flat in the darkness and felt in the stream bed
for a pool deep enough to drink from. His fingers touched only dry sand and stones.

"The light, Charley," he panted. "Bring the light, quick."

His comrade flung his own pack on the earth and ran forward to the bank of the stream. He turned
his light downward and flashed it right and left along the bed of the brook. There was no answering
sparkle of light. The bed of the brook was not even moist. The spring had gone dry.

Chapter IV

In the Burned Forest

The two boys were almost stunned by their discovery. For a moment neither spoke. Indeed neither
dared to speak. Their disappointment was so keen, their thirst so intense, that both boys were
near to tears. But presently they got command of themselves.

"I knew it had been a mighty dry season," said Lew, in amazement, "but I never imagined it
was anything like this. I supposed that spring never went dry."

The two lads stood looking at each other in consternation.

"What in the world shall we do?" asked Charley, slowly.

"I don't see that we can do anything," rejoined Lew. "I'm all in myself. I couldn't go another
rod if somebody would pay me. We'll just have to make the best of it."

"Well, we can eat if we can't drink," said Charley. "Start a fire and I'll get out the grub."

Charley began to unroll his pack, while Lew gathered up a few twigs and made a cone-shaped
little pile of them close beside the great rock. He struck a match and in a moment flames were
drawing upward through the twigs. With the hatchet Lew cut some short lengths of heavier wood
and soon the flames were leaping high, lighting up the forest for rods around.

Dismal, indeed, was the sight the two lads looked upon. Nowhere could they see anything green,
save a few scattered ferns. Everywhere gaunt, ragged, blackened trees thrust their sorrowful
looking trunks aloft. The earth was littered with blackened débris--burned and partly charred
limbs and fallen trees. The very rocks were fire-scarred and scorched. Hardly could the mind
of man conceive a picture more desolate. As the two boys looked at the scene before them, Lew
quoted the sign on the hemlock.

"Everybody loses when timber burns," he said. But though both boys were looking directly at
what seemed the very acme of destruction and loss, neither as yet comprehended the full significance
of the statement Lew was quoting.

Charley spread the grub out on his blanket and put the dishes together near the fire. While
he was waiting for a bed of coals to form, he cut some bread and spread the slices with butter.
Presently he put the little frying-pan over the coals and began to cook some meat. Every time
he bent over his pile of grub, he smelled the coffee. The odor was tantalizing, almost torturing.
Never, it seemed to him, had he ever wanted anything so much as he now wanted a drink of coffee.
But with no water they could have no coffee. Finally Charley put the package of coffee in the
coffee-pot and clamped down the lid so that the odor could reach him no longer. From time to
time Lew quietly stirred the coals. Charley fried the meat in silence. Neither boy felt like
talking.

When the meal was ready, they sat down on the dry ground and in silence ate their food.

Presently Lew broke the quiet. "I wonder what Roy had to say to-night. I thought maybe we'd
be able to get our wireless up and listen in. But I'm too tired to bother with any wireless
to-night, even from Roy. It'll be the hay for mine, quick."

He began to look for a place where they could sleep. When he had selected a spot, he took the
hatchet and with the back of it smoothed the ground, removing all stones and little stumps.
Charley, meantime, put the food away and piled the dishes. They could not be washed. Then the
two boys rolled themselves in their blankets, put their pack bags under their heads and were
asleep almost instantly. Their difficult climb had tired them utterly.

The next morning found them fully refreshed. No clouds hung above them, and the sun's rays
awoke them early. Aside from their intense thirst, neither felt any the worse for his hard
experience.

"It's still early," said Lew, as he looked at the sun that had hardly more than cleared the
summit of the eastern hills. "Let's push on down to the bottom and cook breakfast after we
reach water. It won't take very long to get down, and then we can have some coffee. Oh boy!
I never knew how good coffee was."

"I could drink anything--even medicine," smiled Charley, "so it was wet."

Rapidly the packs were assembled and the blankets rolled. "Put things together good," said
Lew, "for it will be a tough journey even if we are going down-hill. I've been looking at some
of the tangles we came through last night and I don't see how we ever made it."

"Sometimes," replied Charley, "it's a good thing a fellow can't know exactly what he's attempting.
If he did know, maybe he'd never have the nerve to try."

They started down the slope, their packs and blankets securely slung about them and even tied
fast with strings, to prevent them from catching among the fallen trees. Unintentionally they
followed the dry bed of the stream. It led along a slight depression that ran diagonally down
the mountainside. But quickly they realized that this was the most difficult path they could
have chosen. For along the margins of the brook, the timber, fed by the flow of water, had
been much denser and larger than the timber farther from the bank of the stream. So dense was
the tangle now that at first the boys could see only a few hundred yards ahead of them. Presently
they noticed that they were traveling through the thickest part of the timber, or what had
been timber. If possible, their way was more difficult than it had been in ascending the mountain.
But daylight and the fact that they were going down-hill made it possible for them to travel
with comparative rapidity. Once they noticed that they were advancing by the most difficult
route, they left the margin of the brook and cut straight down the slope.

Now the way was more open. They could see farther. But both were so preoccupied with what lay
immediately around them that for a time neither gave heed to more distant views. Furthermore,
the bottom was still obscured by a heavy night mist. The warm spring sun rapidly dissipated
this, opening the valley to view as though some invisible hand had rolled back a giant cover.
Presently Lew reached a little area that was swept absolutely bare of everything. Nothing remained
but the nude rocks and soil. Lew, who was leading the way, paused to spy out the best path.
Then he cried out in dismay. A moment later Charley stood by his side and both boys gazed in
speechless horror at the scene before them.

The magnificent stand of pines that they had expected to see in the bottom was no more. For
miles the valley before them was a blackened waste. Like giant jackstraws the huge pine sticks,
that they had last seen as magnificent, towering trees, were heaped in inextricable confusion
or still stood, broken, blasted, gaunt, limbless, spectral, awful remnants of their former
selves. No words could convey the terrible desolation of the scene. Where formerly these giant
pines had risen heavenward, higher and more stately than the most exquisite church spires or
cathedral columns, there were now only scattered and blasted stumps, while the floor of the
valley was strewn with the horrible débris. The scene was sickening, appalling.

For a moment neither lad spoke. The scene before them oppressed them, made them sick at heart.
They knew no language that would convey what was in their minds. But even yet they did not
fully understand the tragedy of a forest fire. They were soon to learn. Silently they went
on; but they had gone no more than a hundred yards when they came upon a sight that fairly
sickened them. In a little circle, as though the animals had crowded close together in their
terror and helplessness, lay the remains of a number of deer. The flesh had either been burned
or had rotted away; but the most of the bones and parts of the hides remained. There could
be no mistake as to the identity of the dead animals. The very positions of the skeletons told
a pitiful story. Blinded by smoke and flame, made frantic by the red death that was sweeping
the forest, confused, terror-stricken, weakened by gas and fumes, the poor beasts had finally
crowded together and perished under the onrushing wave of fire. For a moment the boys gazed
at the scene in fascinated horror; then they turned away, to shut out the picture. They were
oppressed, almost stunned.

They went on. Not a vestige of its former magnificent vegetation covered the slope. Nothing
in the world could be more awful, more desolate, more disheartening to behold than the area
the two chums were now crossing. Never had either seen anything that so oppressed him. For
not only had the slope of Old Ironsides been laid waste, but the entire bottom had been swept
by fire, and the opposite mountain slope devastated. Before them was nothing but desolation.

Soon they were near enough to see the sparkle of water in the bottom. In their horror at their
immediate surroundings they had temporarily forgotten even their terrible thirst. The sight
of water recalled their need.

"Thank God water can't burn!" cried Lew, as the sparkle of the brook caught his eye. "We'd
be in a fine pickle if the brook had been consumed, too."

The prospect of a drink stirred them. They threw off the spell that so depressed them and hastened
downward, reckless alike of menacing branches and loose stones and obstructing tree trunks.
Headlong they pushed downward. But fortune was with them and neither a broken bone nor a strained
ligament resulted, though more than once each lad slipped and fell. Presently they reached
the bottom of the slope and came to the very brink of the run. Almost frantically they flung
themselves on the ground and drank.

Long, copious draughts they drank; and it was not until they had quenched their thirst that
they really noticed how shrunken the brook was. Instead of the deep, rushing mountain stream
they had seen when last they visited the spot, they now found but a slender rivulet that flowed
quietly along the middle of the stream bed, leaving bare, bordering ribbons of stony bottom
along its margins. Nowhere did the water seem to reach from bank to bank, excepting where some
obstruction in the stream bed dammed the current back. Like the forest, the brook was also
a sorrowful picture. But there was this difference. The forest was dead, whereas the brook,
though feeble, still lived.

The full significance of the shrunken stream did not strike the two boys until they had traveled
for some distance up the bank of the run. Presently they came to a spot they recognized as
a favorite trout-hole. A great boulder jutted out from one bank, while opposite it, on the
other shore, stood or had stood, a mammoth hemlock. These obstructions had formed a little
pool, and the current had eaten away much earth from beneath the roots of the great tree, forming
an ideal lurking place for trout. And in this dark, deep, secure retreat great fish had lived
since time immemorial. More than one huge trout had the two chums taken here. Never was the
pool without its giant occupant, for when one big fellow was caught another moved in to take
his place, the run being fully stocked from year to year by the smaller fishes from the spring
brooks, like the vanished rivulet above. But now no trout hid under the hemlock's roots. They
stood high and dry, while the puny stream that trickled beneath them would hardly have covered
a minnow. The two boys looked at each other in dismay.

"You don't suppose the entire stream is like that, do you, Lew?" asked Charley. "There won't
be a trout in it if it is." Then, after a pause, he added: "What in the world do you suppose
has become of the trout, anyway?"

His question was soon answered, at least in part. Continuing along the bank of the run, the
boys presently came to one of the deepest pools in the stream. In the crystal water they could
see many trout, for there were no hiding-places in the pool at this low stage of water. Some
of the fish were large. At the approach of the boys the frightened trout darted frantically
about in the pool, vainly seeking cover.

Around the margins of this pool were innumerable little tracks in the earth. "Raccoons!" exclaimed
Lew. "There must have been dozens of them here."

But not until he found some little piles of fish-bones near the farther end of the pool did
he grasp the significance of the tracks. He stopped in amazement.

"Look here, Charley," he called, pointing to the piles of fish-bones. "Those coons have been
catching and eating trout." Then, after a moment's thought, he added, "If this stream is like
this in April, what will it be in August? There will be hardly a drop of water or a trout left.
Why, this brook is ruined for years as a trout-stream--maybe forever. And it used to be absolutely
the finest trout-stream in this part of the mountains."

Depressed and silent, the two lads continued along the brook. The mountains on either side
of them and the entire bottom between lay black and desolate. But far up the run they could
now see green foliage again, where the fire had been stopped.

"Let's go on to those pines before we eat our breakfast," said Charley. "It would make me sick
to eat here in these ruins."

"That's exactly the way I feel, too," replied Lew. "It is the most awful thing I ever saw.
Let's get out of it."

As rapidly as they could, they forced their way up-stream. The valley became narrower as they
advanced. It was shaped like a huge wish-bone; and they were nearing the small end, where the
mountains came together and formed a high knob. As the valley narrowed, the grade became much
steeper, and their progress was correspondingly slower.

The pines they were heading for stood almost at the top of the knob at the crotch of the wish-bone.
They were, therefore, at a considerable elevation. From the edge of these pines one would have
to travel only a short distance to reach the very summit of the knob. After a hard walk the
boys reached the end of the burned tract. They penetrated into the living forest far enough
to shut out the sight of the dead forest they had just traversed. Then they threw down their
packs and hastily set about cooking their breakfast.

"Gee!" cried Lew. "I never was so glad to get away from anything in my life. I hope I shall
never again see a sight like that. It fairly makes a fellow sick."

In their haste to start cooking, they were not as careful as they might have been in building
their fire, and they made considerable smoke. Before they were half done eating, a man appeared
farther up the run, advancing through the pines at great speed. He seemed to be in a big hurry
until he caught sight of the two boys as they sat on the dry pine-needles. After that he came
forward at an ordinary gait.

"Good-morning, boys," he said pleasantly, as he drew near. Then, catching sight of their rods,
he added, "If you came to get fish, you struck a mighty poor place."

"It used to be the best place for trout I ever saw," replied Lew. "This brook used to be full
of 'em--big ones, too. But the season has been so dry, the brook has almost disappeared."

"You mean that the fires that have swept this valley have burned it up," replied the stranger.

"It's too awful a thing to joke about," replied Lew.

"A joke!" exclaimed the stranger, frowning.

"It's the literal truth--and a most terrible truth, at that."

"I don't understand," said Lew, slowly. "How can fire burn water? I supposed the lack of snow
last winter and of rain this spring had made the brook shrink."

"Not for a minute, young man, not for a minute. If fires hadn't swept this valley the past
two or three years, there would have been plenty of water in the run, rain or no rain."

"I--I don't exactly understand," said Lew hesitatingly.

"It's like this," said the stranger. "The forest floor is like a great sponge. The decayed
leaves and twigs are so light and porous that they soak up most of the rain as it falls and
hold the water indefinitely. That keeps the springs full, and the springs feed the brooks,
and so there is water all the year round. It is nature's method of storing up water. When a
fire sweeps through the forest, especially such awful fires as have gone through this valley,
the leaves and twigs above ground are burned, and even the roots and the decaying vegetable
matter under the earth are consumed. Nothing is left but mineral matter--particles of rock,
stones, sand, and the like. The rain will no longer sink into the ground, nor will the earth
hold the water as the rotting leaves do. Then when it rains, the water runs off as fast as
it falls. The brooks are flooded for a few hours and then they dry up until another rain comes.
So you see I meant exactly what I said. This trout-stream was burned up by the forest fires.
Likewise many of the trout were burned up with it, for in places the fire made the water hotter
than trout can stand. Thousands of them were literally cooked."

For a while both boys were silent. The idea was a new one to them.

Presently Charley spoke. "I knew that fire burned up our timber," he said, "but I never thought
about its burning up our water, too. I know we're getting awful short of lumber. Is there any
danger of our running out of water? But that can't be, surely."

"It surely can be," said the stranger. "I judge you boys have been here before, and-----"

"We have," interrupted Lew.

"Then you know what a magnificent stream this run used to be. Look at it now. I don't believe
there is one-tenth as much water in it as there used to be. Suppose all the mountains in this
state should be devastated like this valley. Where would the towns and cities get their water?"

"Great Cæsar!" said Lew. "I never thought of that. There wouldn't be any water for them to
get. If the brooks dried up, the rivers would dry up, too. Why--why--what in the world would
we do? There wouldn't be any water to drink or wash in or cook with or run our factories. Why,
great Cæsar! If the forests vanished, I guess we'd be up against it. I never thought of the
forests as furnishing anything but lumber. And I never thought much about that until we tried
to buy a little lumber the other day and the dealer wanted ten dollars for half a dozen boards."

"Exactly!" said the stranger. "That's the price you and I and the rest of us in Pennsylvania
pay for allowing our forests to be destroyed."

"They haven't all been destroyed," protested Lew.

"No, but the greater part of them have been."

"You don't mean really destroyed, do you?" asked Lew.

"Yes, sir. Absolutely destroyed. You came up this valley, didn't you?"

"Sure," said Charley.

"Would you call the forest there destroyed?"

"If it isn't, I don't know how you would describe it," said Lew.

"All right, then. There are some 45,000 square miles in this state. Originally practically
all of that area was dense forests. The early settlers thought the timber would last forever
and they cut and destroyed it recklessly. The lumbermen that followed were just as wasteful.
It was all right to clear the land that was good for farming. But there are more than 20,000
square miles in this state just like these mountains--land that is fit for nothing but the
production of timber. None of that land is producing as much timber as it should. Much of it
yields very little. And more than 6,400 square miles are absolutely desert, as bare and hideous
as the burned valley below us. That's one acre in every seven in Pennsylvania. Think of it!
Six thousand, four hundred square miles, an area larger than the states of Connecticut and
Rhode Island put together, that is absolute desert! Every foot of that land ought to be producing
timber for us. Then we should have lumber at a fraction of its present cost. You see the freight
charges alone on the lumber used in this state are enormous."

"That lumber dealer told us they amounted to $25,000,000 a year," replied Lew.

"They do," assented the stranger. "And when the new freight rates go into effect the amount
will be $40,000,000. What it will be when we get our wood from the Pacific coast I have no
idea, but I suppose it will be at least double what it is now, anyway."

"The Pacific coast!" cried Lew. "Why should we get lumber from the Pacific coast when we can
get it from the South? The lumber dealer told us that practically all the wood we use now conies
from the South."

