e} represents e with upper macron.

To

M. B. W.

PREFATORY NOTE

While the present subject of discussion tempts to many an excursion into particulars, its treatment
is restricted to general outlines, with an aim simply to clarify current ideas of miracle and
the supernatural, so as to find firm holding ground for tenable positions in the present "drift
period" of theology. The chief exception made to this general treatment is the discussion given
to a class of miracles regarded with as much incredulity as any, yet as capable as any of being
accredited as probably historical events--the raisings of the "dead." The insistence of some
writers on the virgin birth and corporeal resurrection of Jesus as essential to Christianity
has required brief discussion of these also, mainly with reference to the reasonableness of
that demand. As to the latter miracle, it must be observed that in the Biblical narratives
taken as a whole, whichever of their discordant features one be disposed to emphasize, the
psychical element clearly preponderates over the physical and material.

                                                                J. M. W.
 NEW YORK,
   April 11, 1903.

CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE
 INTRODUCTORY                                                         13

 THE ARGUMENT

                                I

 The gradual narrowing of the miraculous element in the Bible
   by recent discovery and discussion.--The alarm thereby
   excited in the Church.--The fallacy which generates the
   fear.--The atheistic conception of nature which generates
   the fallacy.--The present outgrowing of this conception.           25

                                II

 The present net results of the discussion of the miraculous
   element in the Bible.--Evaporation of the former evidential
   value of miracles.--Further insistence on this value a
   logical blunder.--The transfer of miracles from the
   artillery to the baggage of the Church.--Probability of a
   further reduction of the list of miracles.--Also of a
   further transfer of events reputed miraculous to the domain
   of history.                                                        37

                                III

 Arbitrary criticism of the Biblical narratives of the raising
   of the "dead."--Facts which it ignores.--The subject
   related to the phenomena of trance, and records of
   premature burial.--The resuscitation in Elisha's tomb
   probably historical.--Jesus' raising of the ruler's
   daughter plainly such a case.--His raising of the widow's
   son probably such.--The hypothesis that his raising of
   Lazarus may also have been such critically examined.--The
   record allows this supposition.--Further considerations
   favoring it: 1. The supposition threatens no real interest
   of Christianity.--2. Enhances the character of the act as a
   work of mercy.--3. Is independent of the belief of the
   witnesses of the act.--4. Is coherent with the general
   conception of the healing works of Jesus as wrought by a
   peculiar psychical power.--Other cases.--The resurrection
   of Jesus an event in a wholly different order of
   things.--The practical result of regarding these
   resuscitations as in the order of nature.                          47

                                IV

 A clearer conception of miracle approached.--Works of Jesus
   once reputed miraculous not so reputed now, since not now
   transcending as once the existing range of knowledge and
   power.--This transfer of the miraculous to the natural
   likely to continue.--No hard and fast line between the
   miraculous and the non-miraculous.--Miracle a provisional
   word, its application narrowing in the enlarging mastery of
   the secrets of Nature and of life.                                 75

                                V

 Biblical miracles the effluence of extraordinary lives.--Life
   the world's magician and miracle-worker; its miracles now
   termed prodigies.--Miracle the natural product of an
   extraordinary endowment of life.--Life the ultimate
   reality.--What any man can achieve is conditioned by the
   psychical quality of his life.--Nothing more natural, more
   supernatural, than life.--The derived life of the world
   filial to the self-existent life of God; "begotten, not
   made."--Miracle as the product of life, the work of God.           85

                                VI

 The question, old and new, now confronting
   theologians.--Their recent retreat upon the minimum of
   miracle.--The present conflict of opinion in the
   Church.--Its turning-point reached in the antipodal
   turn-about in the treatment of miracles from the old to the
   new apologetics.--Revision of the traditional idea of the
   supernatural required for theological readjustment.                95

                                VII

 Account to be made of the law of atrophy through disuse.--The
   virgin birth and the corporeal resurrection of Jesus, the
   two miracles still insisted on as the irreducible minimum,
   affected by this law.--The vital truths of the incarnation
   and immortality independent of these miracles.--These
   truths now placed on higher ground in a truer conception of
   the supernatural.--The true supernatural is the spiritual,
   not the miraculous.--Scepticism bred from the contrary
   view.--The miracle-narratives, while less evidential for
   religion, not unimportant for history.--Psychical research
   a needed auxiliary for the scientific critic of these.            107

                                VIII

 The cardinal point in the present discussion the reality not
   of miracles, but of the supernatural.--Fallacy of pointing
   to physical events as essential characteristics of
   supernatural Revelation.--The character of a revelation
   determined not by its circumstances, but by its
   contents.--Moral nature supernatural to physical.--Nature a
   hierarchy of natures.--Supernatural Religion historically
   attested by the moral development it generates.--Transfer
   of its distinctive note from moral ideals to physical
   marvels a costly error.--Jesus' miracles a revelation, of
   a type common with others before and after.--The unique
   Revelation of Jesus was in the higher realm of divine ideas
   and ideals.--These, while unrealized in human life, still
   exhibit the fact of a supernatural Revelation.--The
   distinction of natural and supernatural belongs to the
   period of moral progress up to the spiritual maturity of
   man in the image of God.--The divine possibilities of
   humanity, imaged in Jesus, revealed as our inheritance and
   our prize.                                                        131

INTRODUCTORY

In a historical retrospect greater and more revolutionary changes are seen to have occurred
during the nineteenth century than in any century preceding. In these changes no department
of thought and activity has failed to share, and theological thought has been quite as much
affected as scientific or ethical. Especially remarkable is the changed front of Christian
theologians toward miracles, their distinctly lowered estimate of the significance of miracle,
their antipodal reverse of the long established treatment of miracles. Referring to this a
British evangelical writer[1] observes that "the intelligent believer of our own day, ... instead
of accepting Christianity on the ground of the miracles, accepts it in spite of the miracles.
Whether he admits these miracles, or rejects them, his attitude toward them is toward difficulties,
not helps."

By this diametrical change of Christian thought a great amount of scepticism has already been
antiquated. A once famous anti-Christian book, Supernatural Religion, regarded as formidable
thirty years ago, is now as much out of date for relevancy to present theological conditions
as is the old smooth-bore cannon for naval warfare. That many, indeed, are still unaware of
the change that has been experienced by the leaders of Christian thought, no one acquainted
with current discussions will deny; the fact is indubitable. It is reviewed in the following
pages with the constructive purpose of redeeming the idea of supernatural Religion from pernicious
perversion, and of exhibiting it in its true spiritual significance. The once highly reputed
calculations made to show how the earth's diurnal revolution could be imperceptibly stopped
for Joshua's convenience, and the contention that the Mediterranean produced fish with gullets
capable of giving passage to Jonah, are now as dead as the chemical controversy about phlogiston.
Yet some sceptical controversialists are still so far from cultivating the acquaintance with
recent thought which they recommend to Christian theologians, as to persist in affirmations
of amazing ignorance, e.g. "It is admitted that miracles alone can attest the reality of divine
revelation."[2] Sponsors for this statement must now be sought among unlearned Christians,
or among a few scholars who survive as cultivators of the old-fashioned argument from the "evidences."
Even among these latter the tendency to minimize miracle is undeniably apparent in a reduction
of the list classified as such, and still more in the brevity of the list insisted on for the
attestation of Christianity.

A transitional state of mind is clearly evidenced by the present division and perplexity of
Christian thought concerning the Christian miracles. Many seem to regard further discussion
as profitless, and are ready to shelve the subject. But this attitude of weariness is also
transitional. There must be some thoroughfare to firm ground and clear vision. It must be found
in agreement, first of all, on the real meaning of a term so variously and vaguely used as
miracle. In the present imperfect state of knowledge it may be impossible to enucleate miracle,
however defined, of all mystery. But even so will much be gained for clear thinking, if miracle
can be reasonably related to the greater mystery which all accept, though none understand,--the
mystery of life. This view of the dynamic relation of life to miracle[3] is here suggested
for what it may prove to be worth.

The great and general change that transfigured theology during the nineteenth century was characteristically
ethical. This, indeed, is the distinctive feature of the so-called new theology, in contrast
with that which the Protestant Reformers inherited from St. Augustine. God and Man, Faith,
Salvation and Inspiration, Redemption and Atonement, Judgment and Retribution,--all these themes
are now presented in orthodox pulpits far more conformably to ethical principles, though in
degrees varying with educated intelligence, than was customary in the sermons of half a century
ago. "One great source and spring of theological progress," says Professor Bowne, in his recent
work on Theism, "has been the need of finding a conception of God which the moral nature could
accept. The necessity of moralizing theology has produced vast changes in that field; and the
end is not yet."

The ethical character of the theological change will perhaps be most obvious in the field of
Biblical study, to which the present subject belongs. The traditional solution of such moral
difficulties in the Old Testament as commands, ostensibly divine, to massacre idolaters has
been quite discarded. It is no longer the mode to say that deeds seemingly atrocious were not
atrocious, because God commanded them. Writers of orthodox repute now say that the Thus saith
the Lord, with which Samuel prefaced his order to exterminate the Amalekites, must be understood
subjectively, as an expression of the prophet's belief, not objectively, as a divine command
communicated to him. This great change is a quite recent change. If a personal reference may
be indulged, it is not twenty years since the present writer's published protest against "The
Anti-Christian Use of the Bible in the Sunday School,"[4] the exhibition to children of some
vestiges of heathen superstition embedded in the Old Testament narratives as true illustrations
of God's ways toward men, drew forth from a religious journal a bitter editorial on "The Old
Testament and its New Enemies." But a great light has since dawned in that quarter. It is no
longer deemed subversive of faith in a divine Revelation to hold that the prophet Gad was not
infallible in regarding the plague which scourged Jerusalem as sent to punish David's pride
in his census of the nation.

A significant fact is presented in the comparison of these two aspects of the theological change
that has come to pass,--the growing importance of the ethical, and the dwindling importance
of the miraculous in the religious thought of to-day. This may reassure those who fear whereto
such change may grow. The inner significance of such a change is most auspicious. It portends
the displacement of a false by the true conception of supernatural Religion, and the removal
thereby of a serious antagonism between Science and Christian Theology, as well as of a serious
hindrance of many thoughtful minds from an intelligent embrace of Christianity.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Professor W. T. Adeney in the Hibbert Journal, January, 1903, p. 302.

[2] See the recent new edition of Supernatural Religion, "carefully revised."

[3] For an earlier statement of this by the present writer, see a discourse on "Miracle and
Life," in New Points to Old Texts. London: James Clarke & Co., 1889. New York: Thomas Whittaker.

[4] The New Englander, September, 1884.

It is barely forty years since that beloved and fearless Christian scholar, Dean Stanley, spoke
thus of the miracles recorded of the prophet Elisha: "His works stand alone in the Bible in
their likeness to the acts of mediæval saints. There alone in the Sacred History the gulf between
Biblical and Ecclesiastical miracles almost disappears."[5] It required some courage to say
as much as this then, while the storm of persecution was raging against Bishop Colenso for
his critical work on the Pentateuch. The evangelical clergymen in England and the United States
then prepared to confess as much as this, with all that it obviously implies, could have been
seated in a small room. But time has moved on, and the Church, at least the scholars of the
Church, have moved with it. No scholar of more than narrowly local repute now hesitates to
acknowledge the presence of a legendary element both in the Old Testament and in the New. While
the extent of it is still undetermined, many specimens of it are recognized. It is agreed that
the early narratives in Genesis are of this character, and that it is marked in such stories
as those of Samson, Elijah, and Elisha. Even the conservative revisers of the Authorized Version
have eliminated from the Fourth Gospel the story of the angel at the pool of Bethesda, and
in their marginal notes on the Third Gospel have admitted a doubt concerning the historicity
of the angel and the bloody sweat in Gethsemane.

Furthermore, some events, recognized as historical, have been divested of the miraculous character
once attributed to them,--the crossing of the Red Sea, for instance, by the Hebrew host. A
landslip in the thirteenth century A.D. has been noted as giving historical character to the
story of the Hebrew host under Joshua's command crossing the Jordan "on dry ground," but in
a perfectly natural way. Other classes of phenomena once regarded as miraculous have been transferred
to the domain of natural processes by the investigations and discoveries that have been made
in the field of psychical research. The forewarning which God is said to have given the prophet
Ahijah of the visit that the queen was about to pay him in disguise[6] is now recognized as
one of many cases of the mysterious natural function that we label as "telepathy." The transformations
of unruly, vicious, and mentally disordered characters by hypnotic influence that have been
effected at the Salpêtrière in Paris, and elsewhere, by physicians expert in psychical therapeutics
are closely analogous to the cures wrought by Jesus on some victims of "demoniac possession."[7]
The cases of apparition,[8] also, which have been investigated and verified by the Society
for Psychical Research have laid a solid basis of fact for the Biblical stories of angels,
as at least, a class of phenomena to be regarded as by no means altogether legendary, but having
their place among natural though mysterious occurrences.

But this progressive paring down of the miraculous element in the Bible has caused outcries
of unfeigned alarm. Christian scholars who have taken part in it are reproached as deserters
to the camp of unbelief. They are accused of banishing God from his world, and of reducing
the course of events to an order of agencies quite undivine. "Miracle," writes one of these
brethren,[9] "is the personal intervention of God into the chain of cause and effect." But
what does this mean, except that, when no miracles occur, God is not personally, i.e. actively,
in the chain of natural causes and effects? As Professor Drummond says, "If God appears periodically,
he disappears periodically." It is precisely this view of the subject that really banishes
God from his world. Those who thus define miracle regard miracles as having ceased at the end
of the Apostolic age in the first century. Except, therefore, for the narrow range of human
history that the Bible covers in time and place, God has not been personally in the chain of
natural causes and effects. Thus close to an atheistic conception of nature does zeal for traditional
orthodoxy unwittingly but really come.

The first pages of the Bible correct this error. The presence of God in his world was thus
to be evinced by his regular sustentation of its natural order, rather than by irregular occurrences,
such as the deluge, in seeming contravention of it. To seek the evidence of divine activity
in human affairs and to ground one's faith in a controlling Providence in sporadic and cometary
phenomena, rather than in the constant and cumulative signs of it to be seen in the majestic
order of the starry skies, in the reign of intelligence throughout the cosmos, in the moral
evolution of ancient savagery into modern philanthropy, in the historic manifestation throughout
the centuries of a Power not our own that works for the increase of righteousness, is a mode
of thought which in our time is being steadily and surely outgrown. It is one of those "idols
of the tribe" whose power alike over civilized and uncivilized men is broken less by argument
than by the ascent of man to wider horizons of knowledge.

It is for the gain of religion that it should be broken,--of the spiritual religion whose God
is not a tradition, a reminiscence, but a living presence, inhabiting alike the clod and the
star, the flower in the crannied wall and the life of man. So thinking of God the religious
man may rightly say,[10] "If it is more difficult to believe in miracles, it is less important.
If the extraordinary manifestations of God recounted in ancient history appear less credible,
the ordinary manifestations of God in current life appear more real. He is seen in American
history not less than in Hebrew history; in the life of to-day not less than in the life of
long ago."

FOOTNOTES:

[5] Lectures on the History of the Jewish Church, Vol. II, p. 362, American edition.

[6] 1 Kings xiv. 1-7.

[7] It is not intended to intimate that there is no such darker reality as a "possession" that
is "demoniac" indeed. It cannot be reasonably pronounced superstitious to judge that there
is some probability for that view. At any rate, it is certain that the problem is not to be
settled by dogmatic pronouncement. It is certain, also, that the burden of proof rests on those
who contend that there can be no such thing. On the other hand, it may be conceded that the
cases recorded in the New Testament do not seem to be of an essentially devilish kind. On the
general subject of "possession" see F. W. H. Myers's work on Human Personality and Survival
after Death, Vol. Varieties of Religious Experience, p. 501, note.

[8] See Dictionary of Psychology, art. "Psychical Research."

[9] Dr. Peloubet, Teachers' Commentary on the Acts, 1902.

[10] Dr. Lyman Abbott in The Outlook, February 14, 1903.

The cultivation of scientific and historical studies during the last century, especially in
its latter half, has deepened the conviction that

    "Through the ages one increasing purpose runs;"

has disposed a growing number of thoughtful minds to regard occasional signs and wonders, reported
from ancient times, as far less evidential for the reasonableness of religious faith than the
steady sustentation of the Providential order and the moral progress of the world. Fully convinced
of this, we should now estimate, before proceeding further, the present net results of the
discussion, so far as it has gone, of what is called the miraculous element in the Bible.

First, its former evidential value in proof of divine Revelation is gone for the men of to-day.
The believer in a divine Revelation does not now, if he is wise, rest his case at all on the
miracles connected with its original promulgation, as was the fashion not very long since.
This for two reasons; chiefly this: that the decisive criterion of any truth, ethical or physical,
must be truth of the same kind. Ethical truth must be ethically attested. The moral and religious
character of the Revelation presents its credentials of worth in its history of the moral and
religious renovations it has wrought both in individuals and in society. This is its proper
and incontrovertible attestation, in need of no corroboration from whatever wonderful physical
occurrences may have accompanied its first utterance. Words of God are attested as such by
the work of God which they effect. It may well be believed that those wonderful occurrences--the
Biblical name for which is "signs," or "powers," terms not carrying, like "miracles," the idea
of something contra-natural[11]--had an evidential value for those to whom the Revelation originally
came. In fact, they were appealed to by the bearers of the Revelation as evidencing its divine
origin by the mighty works of divine mercy which they wrought for sufferers from the evils
of the world. But whatever their evidential value to the eye-witnesses at that remote day,
it was of the inevitably volatile kind that exhales away like a perfume with lapse of time.
Historic doubts attack remote events, especially when of the extraordinary character which
tempts the narrator to that magnifying of the marvellous which experience has found to be a
constantly recurring human trait. It is simply impossible that the original evidential value
of the "signs" accompanying the Revelation should continue permanently unimpaired. To employ
them now as "evidences of Christianity," when the Revelation has won on ethical grounds recognition
of its divine character and can summon history to bear witness of its divine effects in the
moral uplift of the world, is to imperil the Christian argument by the preposterous logical
blunder of attempting to prove the more certain by the less certain.

A second net result consequent on the preceding may be described as the transference of miracles
from the ordnance department to the quartermaster's department of the Church. Until recently
they were actively used as part of its armament, none of which could be dispensed with. Now
they are carried as part of its baggage, impedimenta, from which everything superfluous must
be removed. It is clearly seen that to retain all is to imperil the whole. That there are miracles
and miracles is patent to minds that have learned to scan history more critically than when
a scholar like John Milton began his History of England with the legend of the voyage of "Brute
the Trojan." One may reasonably believe that Jesus healed a case of violent insanity at Gadara,
and reasonably disbelieve that the fire of heaven was twice obedient to Elijah's call to consume
the military companies sent to arrest him. Cultivated discernment does not now put all Biblical
miracles on a common level of credibility, any more than the historical work of Herodotus and
that of the late Dr. Gardiner. To defend them all is not to vindicate, but to discredit all
alike. The elimination of the indefensible, the setting aside of the legendary, the transference
of the supposedly miraculous to the order of natural powers and processes so far as vindicable
ground for such critical treatment is discovered, is the only way to answer the first of all
questions concerning the Bible: How much of this is credible history? Thus it is not only thoroughly
reasonable, but is in the interest of a reasonable belief that divine agency is revealed rather
by the upholding of the established order of Nature than by any alleged interference therewith.
With what God has established God never interferes. To allege his interference with his established
order is virtually to deny his constant immanence therein, a failure to recognize the fundamental
fact that "Nature is Spirit," as Principal Fairbairn has said, and all its processes and powers
the various modes of the energizing of the divine Will.

A third net result now highly probable is a still further reduction of the list of reputed
miracles. The critical process of discriminating the historical from the legendary, and the
natural from the non-natural, is still so comparatively recent that it can hardly be supposed
to have reached its limit. Nor can it be stayed by any impeachment of it as hostile to Christianity,
whose grand argument appeals to its present ethical effects, not to ancient thaumaturgical
accompaniments. There is, however, a considerable class of cases in which the advancing critical
process is likely even to gain credibility for the Biblical narrative in a point where it is
now widely doubted--the resuscitations of the apparently dead. Among all the Biblical miracles
none have more probably a secure historical basis.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] The Anglicized Latin word, "miracle," indiscriminately used in the
Authorized Version, denotes the superficial character of the act or
event it is applied to, as producing wonder or amazement in the
beholders. The terms commonly employed in the New Testament
(s{=e}meion, a sign; dunamis, power; less frequently teras, a
portent) are of deeper significance, and connote the inner nature of the
occurrence, either as requiring to be pondered for its meaning, or as
the product of a new and peculiar energy. The
    real interests of Christianity secure.--2. The miracle as a work of
    mercy.--3. Incompetency of the bystanders' opinion.--4.

