"Well, I's Byle, Plutarch Byle," said the stranger, raising his gaunt, gawky figure to a posture
which, though far from erect, revealed a stature so much above the average height that the
negro stepped back a few paces and stared with astonishment. Plutarch Byle's feet, hands and
head seemed somewhat too large for his trunk and limbs, but were quite in harmony with the
big joints of his knees, elbows and wrists. His attitudes were grotesque and his gestures awkward.
Light, curly hair covered his head; his nose was long and inquisitive; his eyes, big, blue
and good-humored; his mouth, incredibly wide, with shrewd, mobile lips, which habitually smiled.
A tuft of yellow beard on the end of his sharp chin, gave his face a comical expression resembling
that which caricature bestows on Uncle Sam. His voice was pitched in a high key, and was modified
by that nasal twang supposed to indicate Yankee origin; but a habit of giving his declarative
sentences an interrogative finish, might denote that he came from the mountain regions of Pennsylvania
or Virginia. A pair of linsey pantaloons, a blue hunting shirt with a fringe of red and yellow,
moccasins of tanned leather and a woollen hat were his chief visible articles of dress.

Scrutinizing Scipio's features as he might inspect a wonder in a museum, Byle interrogated him:

"Potterin' about for greens, I reckon? Do you belong here, Africanus?"

The only information drawn from the slave was that the proprietor of the island had bought
him in Virginia.

"Bought? Consarn my bones! How much did he give for you? Look here, Sambo, if I was a Roman
general, like you, and in your fix," said Byle, pointing with his left thumb over his right
shoulder and winking, "I'd skite over to the Buckeye-side of the water and forget to pay for
myself. Don't you know what the Ordinance of '87 says? 'No involuntary servitude in said territory.'
I agree with John Woolman, that niggers are our feller-creatures."

Turning abruptly, the tall man moved with long, slow strides in the direction of the white
house with green shutters, talking continually, more to himself than to the perplexed negro
who followed at his heels.

"Wonder how things are growing in the front yard? By gum! that's a fine Italian poplar! Guess
the old Coot's at home. Maybe that youngster is one of the little Bladderhatchets! Say, sonny,
come this way."

The sentence was addressed to a lad, who, bounding from the portico, ran nimbly toward the
intruder. The boy was prettily attired in a military costume, and wore a toy sword at his side
and a gay feather in his cap. He was followed by a brother smaller and much less jaunty.

"What might your name be, now, bub? By crackey, you've come out in full blossom, haven't you,
like a red-bud bush? What do you say your name is?"

"Dominick."

"Dominick, hey? I've seen many a young dominick rooster, but I never saw one with finer feathers
than yours. Suppose you flap your wings, and crow for us, like a fighting cockerel."

"I'll not crow; I'll stick my sword through you!"

"Jerusalem artichokes! He wants to kill me with his tin sword! Dominick, I give in. If your
pappy is about the house, tell him to come out; a gentleman wants to ask him something."

Before a summons could be served on Mr. Harman Blennerhassett, that person appeared emerging
from a wing of the long porch. Being extremely near-sighted, he could not distinctly see the
man who awaited him until the distance between the two was diminished to a few steps. The uninvited
guest without ceremony opened conversation.

"How d'ye do? I am Mr. Byle--B-y-l-e--Plutarch Byle. Of course everybody knows you by reputation,
Mr. Bladderhatchet--"

"Blennerhassett."

"It's a prodigious long name, ain't it? Too long, in my opinion. You can have it shortened
by law. I'm told you're from Ireland. You don't look much Irish, nor you haven't a bad brogue.
I s'pose you've got your naturalization papers all right. This administration is rather easy
on foreigners, especially French, for Jefferson has Frenchy notions. President Adams was rough
on emigrants--maybe too rough; he wanted to sock it to them hard by acts of Congress. What
is your opinion of the Alien and Sedition laws? I favor them; I'm a Federalist to the marrow-bones.
I don't reckon you're a United Irishman, Mr. Blanner--"

"Blenner, if you please--Blennerhassett. I belong to the order of United Irishmen, but I presume
your errand here is not to discuss politics. Your looks denote that you affiliate with--shall
I say, the common people, the humbler class? What is your business here, my good man?"

"Rattlesnakes and brimstone! Me your good man! Me of the humbler class! Why, Squire B., we
have no humbler class on our side of the Ohio. But you needn't apologize; I'm not huffy. You're
new to the country and your blunders are excusable. I happened along this way--"

"My time is valuable, I must ask you to be brief. What do you want?"

"You're a bigger man than I calculated to see; you're a large-sized citizen, full six foot,
I should guess, and you stoop consider'bl in the shoulders, like myself. The Byles are all
built that way. But your feet are smaller than mine, and I should think you'd feel awk'ard
in such toggery as them red breeches and shoe buckles."

"You are impertinent," snapped Blennerhassett, turning from his rude critic. "If you have nothing
to tell or to ask that is of any importance, make off, for I can be detained no longer."

"Hold on, neighbor; I've heaps yet to tell, and lots more to ask. The first thing I noticed
particularly when I landed was that puddle up there, with the hunk of raw meat soaking, and
I would like dangnation well to know why you put that meat in that puddle?"

Annoyed beyond endurance, the lord of the island would have hurried away, but he was diverted
from his intention by the unexpected conduct of his guest, who, suddenly dropping on all fours,
fell to examining with the liveliest interest a wild plant which had forced its stem up through
the sod.

"Do you know what that is?" asked Plutarch of the two boys who stood near their father, perplexed
by the dialogue to which they had listened. They shook their heads, when, glancing up at Scipio,
the questioner repeated, "Do you know?" and not waiting for a reply, "That's snakeroot; smell
it!" He plucked a portion of the herb, rubbed it between his thumb and forefinger and thrust
the bruised substance first under his own nose and then beneath the reluctant nostrils of the
disdainful Master Dominick.

Mr. Blennerhassett was himself a botanist, or desired to be considered one, and his eagerness
to become familiar with the flora of his vicinity so far overcame offended formality, that
he also got down on his knees and directed his imperfect vision to the pungent specimen. The
two men, each an oddity, presented a ludicrous picture as they knelt on the grass, their heads
almost in contact, and their long noses only a few inches above the object of their scrutiny.

"Yes, Virginia snakeroot, and I couldn't expect it to sprout up in this open place. This is
a different thing from the Seneca rattlesnake-root; there's more cure in an ounce of this than
in a pound of that. I'll wager five shillings to a sixpence that I can name you nine out of
ten of the medicines and dyestuffs growing on this island."

"If that is the case," said the Irish recluse, scrambling to his feet, "I shall be glad to
avail myself of your knowledge. There are many vines, shrubs, and trees flourishing here, the
names and qualities of which I greatly desire to learn and many herbs which perhaps--"

"I'm your man, neighbor; I'm your man. There are three things which I calculate I do know by
experience: the first is fish, the second is game, and the third is yarbs."

"What is the third?"

"Yarbs. Anything that grows wild. I'm acquainted with pretty much every critter that has seed,
flower, leaf, bark or root. I fish a good bit, and I doctor a good bit."

"You doctor, fish and hunt," repeated Blennerhassett, his attention now completely captured;
"I myself prescribe simple remedies and I am fond of the sports you mention, though a defect
of vision interferes with my shooting."

"If you like," proposed Byle, "we will prowl around this very afternoon and study physic together.
I call the wild woods God's apothecary shop."

Blennerhassett was convoyed to the depths of the island forest, where the strangely assorted
pair conversed intimately on the virtues of pleurisy-root, Indian physic and columbo. Byle
discoursed on the high price of ginseng, and the new method of preparing that specific for
the Chinese market; recommended the prompt use of succory to cure a snake bite, and the liberal
application of green stramonium leaves to heal sores on the back of a horse. He advised Blennerhassett
to acquire an appetite for custard apples, which, he said, regulated the bowels.

On returning from the excursion, Blennerhassett hurried into his library, lugging a basket
filled with botanical specimens; and Byle prepared to leave the premises. Before starting,
he beckoned the gardener, who sulkily responded to the sign. The pertinacious visitor was proof
against repulse. No social coolness could chill his confiding ardor. He took Peter's arm, and
with a backward jerk of the head declared interrogatively:

"The Mogul is sort of queer, isn't he? A screw loose somewhere, eh?"

"Well," responded Peter cautiously, "yes and no; he is queer and he isn't queer. He has plenty
of book learning and plenty of money, and a fool can't get much of either. Folks say he has
every kind of sense but common sense."

"At first he didn't want to be sociable. I asked him a civil question about a public matter,
and he shut up like a clam. Now can you tell me, as man to man, why the deuce that hunk of
beef is put to soak in that puddle, up at the head of the island?"

Peter chuckled in the contemptuous manner of a practical man, without sympathy for speculative
genius.

"That's one of his chemical experiments. The man is always up to something of the kind. The
carcass of a dead 'og was dug up on the place, and his Honor noticed that it had turned into
something like tallow, and he takes the notion that the water here has power to change flesh
into solid fat--hadipocere, he calls it--which he thinks may be used to make candles."

Byle listened to the solution of the lean-meat mystery with waning attention, for before the
explanation was concluded his roving eye caught glimpses of an apparition more interesting
than the gardener's dry sarcasm. He discerned, through openings in the boscage fringing the
river bank on the Ohio shore, an object like a scarlet flag flying rapidly along.

"Greased lightning! What strange bird is that coming down the river road? A woman on horseback,
sure as Easter flowers! Two of 'em, one in red and one in black. Don't they make them animals
cut dirt? I wouldn't miss this sight for a hogshead of tree-honey. Why, it beats a Pittsburg
horse-race on the Fourth of July!"

"Oh, it's mamma! It's mamma and Miss Evaleen coming back from Marietta," shouted Dominick.

A gang of colored men, led by Honest Moses, poled an unwieldy scow to the Ohio shore, took
the dashing equestriennes on board and ferried back to the island.

The announcement that their mistress was approaching caused a general flurry among the servants,
male and female, and several of them, headed by the boys, hastened down to the landing to receive
the ladies. Byle was not the man to let slip such an opportunity of taking a look at the paragon,
whose charms of person and brilliancy of mind he had heard many tongues extol; and he did not
hesitate to join the family group on the river bank. His curiosity was amply rewarded by the
vision of fair women which he beheld.

Madam Blennerhassett stepped from the ferryboat, beaming smiles of motherly fondness upon her
children. She wore a riding-habit of scarlet cloth embroidered with thread of gold, and a snow-white
hat, adorned with long plumes of ostrich feather. The rich attire did not blind Plutarch to
the natural beauty of "the woman herself." She was of regal stature, graceful bearing and animated
face. Her buoyant step, her rising bosom, her clear, rich voice evidenced the vital glow of
maturity in a woman still young--a June rose blooming in May.

Byle, pressing nearer, noted that the madam's hair was brown; her eyelashes long; nose, Grecian;
lips, ripe red. When he had fixed her image on his mind, and was meditating the propriety of
making friendly inquiries concerning the purpose and results of her excursion to Marietta,
her large, calm eyes searched his countenance with a look of offended dignity, which caused
his tongue to cleave to the roof of his mouth. Speechless for the moment, but not blinded,
Plutarch withdrew his optics from the imperious dame, and took an instantaneous brain-picture
of her companion, a light-footed, quick-glancing girl about eighteen years of age, whose arrival
put little Harman into an ecstasy, and gave manifest delight to the servants. Her blithe manner
and cheerful voice won Byle's complete approbation, and led him to describe her as one who
"'peared not to know there was a valley of the shadder of trouble here below."

Madam Blennerhassett instructed Moses to take care of the horses, and side by side with the
winsome maiden walked from the landing to the house, followed by a retinue of servants.

Thus abandoned, Plutarch Byle plodded his way to his skiff, pushed the light craft from the
sandy beach, ensconced his gaunt person on the rowing bench, seized the oars, and pulled up
stream, saying to himself:

"She's the compound extract of Queen 'Liz'beth and Cleopatry; but why didn't she take a fancy
to a good-looking Federalist like me, instead of throwing herself away on a near-sighted United
Irishman with silver shoe-buckles?"

II. A NOTED CHARACTER ARRIVES IN PITTSBURG.

On the last day of April, 1805, more than the usual number of guests crowded the bar-room or
lounged about the open door of the Green Tree, a popular tavern on the bank of the Monongahela,
in Pittsburg. The proprietor had found difficulty in providing refreshment for the swarm of
hungry mechanics, farmers and boatmen who elbowed their way to a seat at his famed dining-table.
To the clatter of dishes was added the clamor of voices making demands upon the decanters,
which yielded an inexhaustible supply of rum, whiskey and peach brandy.

In the throng of bar-room loafers was a swarthy boatman, wearing a leathern waistcoat, who,
on being jostled by a stalwart roysterer carrying a long rifle, poured out curses and slang
epithets, swearing he could whip any man in the tavern or in the town. The challenge was no
sooner uttered than the offender for whom it was meant called out to the landlord:

"Here, Billy, hold my shooter a minute until I pitch this Louisiana rat into the river."

"Don't mind him, Mike; he's drunk."

"Drunk or sober," blustered the quarrelsome boatman, "I swear I can whip the best man in Pittsburg
or in Pennsylvania."

This sweeping defiance elicited laughter and derision.

"Give him the heft of your fist, Mike!" cried one.

"Bruise the snout of the Mississippi alligator!"

Thus incited, Mike Fink, the recognized champion of Pittsburg, disposed of his rifle, doubled
up his fists, and stood ready for assault or defence.

"Fair fight or rough and tumble?" said he, appealing to the crowd.

"Fair fight," growled the boatman and tossed a fiery dram down his gullet. But fair fight in
the accepted sense of the phrase was farthest from his intention. Quick as a flash, he drew
from his belt a dirk, and would have stabbed his antagonist, had not a bystander seized his
uplifted arm, while another wrenched the weapon from his grasp. The ruffian's comrades hurried
their dangerous leader from the inn, and guided his steps to the river and aboard a large new
flatboat recently launched.

A flourish of bugle notes and the noise of wheels announced the arrival of the mail-coach from
the East. Everybody went out to hail the lumbering vehicle, which, drawn by four horses, came
bowling down the road in a dust-cloud of glory. The driver cracked his whip with a bang like
a pistol-shot, and firmly holding in his left hand the four long lines, brought his team to
a sudden halt in front of the tavern.

Only two passengers alighted from the stage, clambering out at the front, a mode of egress
requiring agility to avoid awkward slips and tumbles. The first to step down was a handsome
young man, who held his head proudly and looked about him with easy self-possession. A fashionable
suit of clothes and a hat in the latest Philadelphia style proclaimed him a man of "quality."
But aristocratic as were the mien and attire of this fine gentleman, he ceased to be the chief
object of attention when his fellow-traveller emerged from the pent darkness of the coach and
sprang to the pavement.

Every eye fastened on the second stranger. His was an individuality sure to command deference.
Though of slight figure, he bore himself with a lofty air, which lifted his stature and magnified
its proportions. Not one of those tarrying to behold the man could resist the feeling that
his was a dominating spirit, a will and personality not to be ignored or slighted. A careful
scanning of his externals discovered that his form was symmetrical, though the head seemed
disproportionately large; the brow was high and sloping; the nose, rather sharp; every curve
of the mouth, clear cut and delicate; the eyes, black, bright and piercing. Such was the man
who, attired in a suit of black broadcloth, with buff vest, ruffled shirt, and white stock,
and with hair tied in a modish queue, revealed himself to the gaze of the throng in front of
the Green Tree.

The spectators observed as he descended from the coach that his feet were small, and were fitted
to a nicety with polished boots of the finest leather. No amount of gaping, gazing and inquisitive
side remark embarrassed the newcomer. Perhaps his dark eyes emitted a sparkle of gratified
vanity as he glanced about him, distributing a gracious bow among his unknown fellow-citizens.
Addressing the innkeeper, he asked:

"Can you inform us whether Judge Brackenridge is in town?"

"Yes, sir; we are going that way," politely replied a stripling, who stepped forward, followed
by another youth with a law book under his arm. "This is Harry Brackenridge, the judge's son."

"Surely? and your name is--?"

"Morgan Neville."

"Son of Colonel Presley Neville?"

"Yes, sir."

"Indeed! The particular friend of Lafayette." Young Neville blushed with proud pleasure.

"Yes; father was his aide-de-camp."

"I know," said the stranger, smiling, as he turned to ask young Brackenridge, "Is the judge
at home?"

"We expect him home to-morrow from a trip to Washington College."

"Your new Western college, eh? Judge Brackenridge is a promoter of learning and literature.
Allow me to make you acquainted with Mr. Arlington, of Virginia." The Southerner saluted the
students and, inclining his head deferentially toward his travelling companion, said:

"I have the honor of introducing you to Colonel Aaron Burr."

Diverse were the effects produced on the listening spectators by Arlington's words. At the
sound of the notorious name some shrank as from the hiss of a coiled serpent. Others drew near,
as if eager to manifest partisan sympathy for the renowned leader, whose pistol had ended the
life of Alexander Hamilton ten months prior to the time of this visit to Pittsburg. The unfledged
lawyers whom his favor had distinguished were of his faction. They manifested their fealty
and gladness with boyish exuberance, by delighted looks and words expressive of esteem and
reverence. Burr was importuned to dine at their houses, but he excused himself on account of
business affairs which required prompt attention. However, he accepted an invitation to visit
Colonel Neville on the following day.

Dinner over, the newly arrived guests sought the general supply agent, with whom Burr had contracted
by letter for a boat, intending a voyage down the Ohio. The vessel was ready and that very
morning had been brought from the shipyard to the landing.

"You will find her a first-class flatboat, Mr. Burr--strong and tight--sixty foot long by fourteen
wide--four first-rate rooms, and as pretty a roof as you ever set foot on anywheres. There's
a fellow here from down Mississippi I've spoke to--a number one pole and a letter A oar--Captain
Burke Pierce by name--and he'll manage her for you, Mr. Burr, and provide his own crew."

"Where can I find this Captain Pierce?"

"I'll take you to him right away. He's down on the boat now. A mighty good hand is Burke, tough
as a bull, swims like a muskrat, but he has one failing--only one so far as I know--he will
drink, and when he's drunk he's vicious. But they all take their whiskey, these boatmen, and
so does almost every landsman, for that matter--and Pierce is no worse than the rest. But here's
the point: cap had a row at the tavern, and his crew took him down to your boat to sober off."

"Why there?"

"Well, I thought you'd ask that. I gave them leave to go to your boat out of regard to you.
I told him if he'd whistle together five or six experienced poles and a good cook, like as
not you'd hire him to take charge of her for you and steer her down the river; see to the kitchen,
beds and everything."

Inwardly remarking that the agent had presumed beyond his commission, Burr was conducted to
the boat, within which he found half a dozen rough rivermen seated around a table, playing
poker. Their redoubtable chief rose with a civil salutation not to be expected from one of
his station. He was a stalwart fellow, of swarthy complexion and strongly marked features.
A broad yellow belt confining a leather doublet was buckled around his waist; the legs of his
coarse blue woollen trousers were stuffed into the wide tops of heavy Suarrow boots, and his
head was covered by a broad hat, such as were worn by Spanish traders on the lower Mississippi.

"That's your man; that's Burke; born and raised on a broad-horns. Speak for yourself, cap;
this is Mr. Burr, which I told you about."

The boatman spoke for himself in surprisingly good language, with an air combining the bold
and the obsequious. For a fixed sum, payable in weekly instalments, he proposed to give his
own services and to hire the additional help necessary to navigate the boat, under the general
control of the owner. To this arrangement Burr finally agreed, notwithstanding an instinctive
repugnance which he had felt on first seeing the letter A oar, who was tough as a bull and
who had but one failing. As the captain received in his palm an advance payment, he called
upon his men to witness the contract and to vouch for his character, and pledged word and honor
that, by six o'clock on the evening of the following day, the boat would be in readiness for
the voyage.

Relieved of present care, Burr returned to the tavern, where many citizens, incited by various
motives, waited to pay him their respects. The rumor of his arrival had spread over town, and
speculation was rife concerning his movements. What could be the noted politician's object
in coming to the West? Was he flying from persecution? Could he be suffering remorse? Or was
he merely making a tour of observation for commercial reasons?

Burr's reticence gave little satisfaction to the busybodies who sought by direct question to
verify their several conjectures. All comers were received with a hearty handshake and were
entertained with urbane speeches. Not the humblest caller was slighted. It was late in the
evening when, having affably gotten rid of his last visitor, Burr proposed that he and Arlington
should retire. They were well content to make the best of the scanty accommodations of the
one sleeping-room to which they were both assigned.

After a disturbed night's rest Burr awoke early and called his drowsing companion.

"Rouse up, Mr. Arlington. Shake off this downy sleep."

"Downy sleep!" answered the Virginian, yawning and stretching; "the only down of this couch
is shucks and corn-cobs."

The two men had scarcely finished breakfasting when a committee of local officials called to
invite them to see the sights of growing Pittsburg.

The "Emporium," as the Gazette called the town, had a population of about two thousand. Most
of the buildings were of logs; a few of stone or brick.

Burr listened with every appearance of intense interest to animated accounts of the academy,
the old Dutch church, the ferries, the shipping-yard, Suke's Run, and Smoky Island. The party
sauntered along muddy thoroughfares--Southfield Street and Chancery Lane. They strolled through
Strawberry Avenue and Virgin Alley. They viewed the ruins of Fort Pitt, stood on the site of
historic Du Quesne, and paused to gaze up at the garrisoned post of La Fayette, over which
floated the flag of the Old Thirteen. During the tour Burr kept up a sprightly conversation.
His guides took pains, at his request, to introduce to him the young men of Pittsburg, and
those who had the favor of being presented felt themselves enrolled among his devoted adherents.
He carried their hearts, not by storm, but by irresistible sunshine.

At the appointed time the visitors were warmly welcomed at Colonel Neville's, where they were
gratified to meet Judge Brackenridge. The four gentlemen spent an hour in lively political
and military talk, over a decanter of Madeira. Under the mellowing influence of wine and good
company, the judge, with Scotch curiosity, made bold to sound Burr in regard to the purpose
of his Western trip.

"We are going out West to witness the 'Rising Glory of America,'" was the evasive answer. "I
am eager to explore that domain of which the author of 'Bunker Hill,' has sung so sublimely:

                             'Hail, happy land,
    The seat of empire, the abode of kings,
    The final stage, where time shall introduce
    Renowned characters and glorious works.'"

Flattered to hear his own verse recited by the ex-Vice-president, the judge returned a quick
response:

"It is seldom that a poet lives to hear his own prophecies fulfilled. The 'renowned characters'
are entering upon the stage; I dare say the 'glorious works' will be accomplished according
to prophecy."

The conversation returned to general themes: prospects of trade, routes of migration, growth
of western towns, literature, and education. A passing comment on the recent purchase and organization
of Louisiana led Colonel Neville to ask:

"When did you last see your former comrade-in-arms, General Wilkinson?"

"Not lately. I thought I might meet him here in Pittsburg. Is he not due here?"

"Yes, he is on the way from Philadelphia, but he travels with his family, and is liable to
many detentions. His barge lies at the wharf, to convey him to Fort Massac."

"So I learn," said Burr. "I fear I shall miss him. He is a jovial companion."

"A bon-vivant," ejaculated the Judge. "Few men enjoy a convivial occasion with his gusto, or
have the constitution to indulge as he does. Gossip charges him with living beyond his purse.
Some ill-natured rumors assert that he allows the rites of Bacchus to interfere with the duties
of Mars."

"Bacchus is a gross and vicious god. But your gossips traduce Wilkinson. He is a brave man
and a fine officer," said Burr with an emphasis of finality.

"O undoubtedly! Apropos of the wine-god, Colonel Burr, do not fail to tie up your boat at Bacchus
Island, you and Mr. Arlington, and call on my friends the Blennerhassetts. Harman Blennerhassett
is an agreeable man, though peculiar, and his wife is charming."

"A fine woman, is she?" responded Burr.

"Both beautiful and opulent. A sultana, sir!"

"Then, gentlemen," said Burr, rising with glass in hand, "let us do ourselves the honor of
drinking the health of Madam Blennerhassett."

When, at six o'clock in the evening, the travellers went down to the boat, not a soul did they
find on board. Seven o'clock came, but no Captain Pierce, no minion of his. Burr made inquiry
of the agent, the tavern-keeper and others, without obtaining information concerning any of
the missing men.

Much incensed, he and Arlington were compelled to lodge another night in the best bedchamber
of the Green Tree.

III. PILLARS OF SMOKE.

On the morning after their provoking delay, when the travellers again appeared at the boat
landing, impatient to resume their voyage, Aaron Burr was in a mood not to be trifled with.
It scarcely mollified his anger to discover on the deck of the boat the slippery crew that
had disappointed him.

"Here we are, sharp on time," bawled Captain Pierce audaciously. "How soon do you want to start?"

Burr, stepping aboard the vessel, confronted his plausible employee, and said in a tone of
stern reprimand:

"You will be of no use to me unless you obey orders to the letter. You make a bad beginning.
Why were you not here twelve hours ago?"

"I didn't agree to shove off before this morning. We were to come at six--"

"At six last evening. You broke your word."

"What was the use of lying?" said Arlington contemptuously.

The boatman lowered upon the Virginian, and muttered to Burr: "Then I must have heard wrong.
I thought you said six o'clock this morning. I'll take my oath on a pile of Bibles."

"Produce the Bibles," suggested Arlington.

Burke ignored the sneering remark, and continued his protestations to Burr. "I mean to do the
fair, square thing, as these men will tell you. Ask them. They know Burke Pierce keeps his
promises."

"Enough; I hope you do. Don't disappoint me again. Put the boat in motion."

Under the captain's directions, all the hands but one bestirred themselves. The exception,
a burly knot of muscles, with stubby beard and purple nose, instead of joining in the work,
stood idle, chewing tobacco, ostentatiously. Without a word Burr stepped lightly in front of
the impudent roustabout, and, delivering a blow, with the dexterity of an expert boxer, knocked
him into the river, amid the jeers of his associates, and of the concourse assembled on the
shore to see the boat off.

This prompt stroke of executive policy had a salutary effect. Recalcitrant subjects had warning
that the little man wearing the queue and the small, shiny boots, could not be bluffed.

The boat, once in midstream, was easily managed by the use of long, spiked poles, and, now
and then, of an oar. The captain kept his station at the stern of the uncouth craft, handling
the steering-pole. The two travellers, standing upon the roof of the ark, admired their pilot's
skill, and freely exchanged comments regarding him. To their murmured conversation, the steersman
seemed dumb, deaf and indifferent; nevertheless, he gave the closest attention to every word,
and his sense of hearing was as keen as that of a wildcat.

