As she did not lodge within the precincts of this garrison, she was one day, after tea, conducted
to the gate by the captain and the Count, and just as they approached the turnkey's lodge,
our hero's eyes were struck with the apparition of his old companion Renaldo, son of his benefactor
and patron, the Count de Melvil.  What were the emotions of his soul, when he saw that young
gentleman enter the prison, and advance towards him, after having spoke to the jailor!  He
never doubted that, being informed of his confinement, he was come to upbraid him with his
villany and ingratitude, and he in vain endeavoured to recollect himself from that terror and
guilty confusion which his appearance had inspired; when the stranger, lifting up his eyes,
started back with signs of extreme amazement, and, after a considerable pause, exclaimed, "Heaven
and earth! Sure my eyes do not deceive me! is not your name Fathom?  It is, it must be my old
friend and companion, the loss of whom I have so long regretted!"  With these words he ran
towards our adventurer, and, while he clasped him in his arms with all the eagerness of affection,
protested that this was one of the happiest days he had ever seen.

Ferdinand, who, from this salutation, concluded himself still in possession of Renaldo's good
opinion, was not deficient in expressions of tenderness and joy; he returned his embraces with
equal ardour, the tears trickled down his cheeks, and that perturbation which proceeded from
conscious perfidy and fear, was mistaken by the unsuspecting Hungarian for the sheer effects
of love, gratitude, and surprise.  These first transports having subsided, they adjourned to
the lodgings of Fathom, who soon recollected his spirits and invention so well as to amuse
the other with a feigned tale of his having been taken by the French, sent prisoner into Champagne,
from whence he had written many letters to Count Melvil and his son, of whom he could hear
no tidings; of his having contracted an intimacy with a young nobleman of France, who died
in the flower of his age, after having, in token of his friendship, bequeathed to him a considerable
legacy; by this he had been enabled to visit the land of his forefathers in the character of
a gentleman, which he had supported with some figure, until he was betrayed into a misfortune
that exhausted his funds, and drove him to the spot where he was now found.  And he solemnly
declared, that, far from forgetting the obligation he owed to Count Melvil, or renouncing the
friendship of Renaldo, he had actually resolved to set out for Germany on his return to the
house of his patron in the beginning of the week posterior to that in which he had been arrested.

Young Melvil, whose own heart had never known the instigations of fraud, implicitly believed
the story and protestations of Fathom; and though he would not justify that part of his conduct
by which the term of his good fortune was abridged, he could not help excusing an indiscretion
into which he had been hurried by the precipitancy of youth, and the allurements of an artful
woman.  Nay, with the utmost warmth of friendship, he undertook to wait upon Trapwell, and
endeavour to soften him into some reasonable terms of composition.

Fathom seemed to be quite overwhelmed with a deep sense of all this goodness, and affected
the most eager impatience to know the particulars of Renaldo's fate, since their unhappy separation,
more especially his errand to this uncomfortable place, which he should henceforth revere as
the providential scene of their reunion.  Nor did he forget to inquire, in the most affectionate
and dutiful manner, about the situation of his noble parents and amiable sister.

At mention of these names, Renaldo, fetching a deep sigh, "Alas! my friend," said he, "the
Count is no more; and, what aggravates my affliction for the loss of such a father, it was
my misfortune to be under his displeasure at the time of his death.  Had I been present on
that melancholy occasion, so well I knew his generosity and paternal tenderness, that, sure
I am, he would in his last moments have forgiven an only son, whose life had been a continual
effort to render himself worthy of such a parent, and whose crime was no other than an honourable
passion for the most meritorious of her sex.  But I was removed at a fatal distance from him,
and doubtless my conduct must have been invidiously misrepresented.  Be that as it will, my
mother has again given her hand in wedlock to Count Trebasi; by whom I have the mortification
to be informed that I am totally excluded from my father's succession; and I learn from other
quarters, that my sister is barbarously treated by this inhuman father-in-law.  Grant, Heaven,
I may soon have an opportunity of expostulating with the tyrant upon that subject."

So saying, his cheeks glowed, and his eyes lightened with resentment. Then he thus proceeded:
"My coming hither to-day was with a view to visit a poor female relation, from whom I yesterday
received a letter, describing her most deplorable situation, and soliciting my assistance;
but the turnkey affirms that there is no such person in the jail, and I was on my way to consult
the keeper, when I was agreeably surprised with the sight of my dear Fathom."

Our adventurer having wiped from his eyes the tears which were produced by the news of his
worthy patron's death, desired to know the name of that afflicted prisoner, in whose behalf
he interested himself so much, and Renaldo produced the letter, subscribed, "Your unfortunate
cousin, Helen Melvil."  This pretended relation, after having explained the degree of consanguinity
which she and the Count stood in to each other, and occasionally mentioned some anecdotes of
the family in Scotland, gave him to understand that she had married a merchant of London, who,
by repeated losses in trade, had been reduced to indigence, and afterwards confined to prison,
where he then lay a breathless corpse, having left her in the utmost extremity of wretchedness
and want, with two young children in the smallpox, and an incurable cancer in one of her own
breasts.  Indeed, the picture she drew was so moving, and her expressions so sensibly pathetic,
that no person, whose heart was not altogether callous, could peruse it without emotion.  Renaldo
had sent two guineas by the messenger, whom she had represented as a trusty servant, whose
fidelity had been proof against all the distress of her mistress; and he was now arrived in
order to reinforce his bounty.

Fathom, in the consciousness of his own practices, immediately comprehended the scheme of this
letter, and confidently assured him that no such person resided in the prison or in any other
place.  And when his friend applied for information to the keeper, these assurances were confirmed;
and that stern janitor told him he had been imposed upon by a stale trick, which was often
practised upon strangers by a set of sharpers, who make it their business to pick up hints
of intelligence relating to private families, upon which they build such superstructures of
fraud and imposition.

However piqued the young Hungarian might be to find himself duped in this manner, he rejoiced
at the occasion which had thrown Fathom in his way; and, after having made him a tender of
his purse, took his leave, on purpose to wait upon Trapwell, who was not quite so untractable
as an enraged cuckold commonly is; for, by this time, he had accomplished the best part of
his aim, which was to be divorced from his wife, and was fully convinced that the defendant
was no more than a needy adventurer, who, in all probability, would be released by an act of
parliament for the benefit of insolvent debtors; in which case, he, the plaintiff, would reap
no solid advantage from his imprisonment.

He, therefore, listened to the remonstrances of the mediator, and, after much canvassing, agreed
to discharge the defendant, in consideration of two hundred pounds, which were immediately
paid by Count Melvil, who, by this deduction, was reduced to somewhat less than thirty.

Nevertheless, he cheerfully beggared himself in behalf of his friend, for whose release he
forthwith obtained an order; and, next day, our adventurer, having bid a formal adieu to his
fellows in distress, and, in particular, to his majesty, for whose restoration his prayers
were preferred, he quitted the jail, and accompanied his deliverer, with all the outward marks
of unutterable gratitude and esteem.

Surely, if his heart had been made of penetrable stuff, it would have been touched by the circumstances
of this redemption; but had not his soul been invincible to all such attacks, these memoirs
would possibly never have seen the light.

When they arrived at Renaldo's lodgings, that young gentleman honoured him with other proofs
of confidence and friendship, by giving him a circumstantial detail of all the adventures in
which he had been engaged after Fathom's desertion from the imperial camp.  He told him, that,
immediately after the war was finished, his father had pressed him to a very advantageous match,
with which he would have complied, though his heart was not at all concerned, had not he been
inflamed with the desire of seeing the world before he could take any step towards a settlement
for life.  That he had signified his sentiments on this head to the Count, who opposed them
with unusual obstinacy, as productive of a delay which might be fatal to his proposal; for
which reason he had retired incognito from his family, and travelled through sundry states
and countries, in a disguise by which he eluded the inquiries of his parents.

That, in the course of these peregrinations, he was captivated by the irresistible charms of
a young lady, on whose heart he had the good fortune to make a tender impression.  That their
mutual love had subjected both to many dangers and difficulties, during which they suffered
a cruel separation; after the torments of which, he had happily found her in England, where
she now lived entirely cut off from her native country and connexions, and destitute of every
other resource but his honour, love, and protection.  And, finally, that he was determined
to combat his own desires, how violent soever they might be, until he should have made some
suitable provision for the consequences of a stricter union with the mistress of his soul,
that he might not, by a precipitate marriage, ruin the person whom he adored.

This end he proposed to attain, by an application to the court of Vienna, which he did not
doubt would have some regard to his own service, and that of his father; and thither he resolved
to repair, with the first opportunity, now that he had found a friend with whom he could intrust
the inestimable jewel of his heart.

He likewise gave our hero to understand, that he had been eight months in England, during which
he had lived in a frugal manner, that he might not unnecessarily exhaust the money he had been
able to raise upon his own credit; that, hitherto, he had been obliged to defer his departure
for Germany on account of his attendance upon the mother of his mistress, who was lately dead
of sorrow and chagrin; and that, since he resided in London, he had often heard of the celebrated
Count Fathom, though he never imagined that his friend Ferdinand could be distinguished by
that appellation.

CHAPTER FORTY-THREE

FATHOM JUSTIFIES THE PROVERB, "WHAT'S BRED IN THE BONE WILL NEVER COME OUT OF THE FLESH."

Some circumstances of this conversation made a deep impression upon the mind of our adventurer,
who nevertheless concealed his emotions from the knowledge of his friend, and was next day
introduced to that hidden treasure of which Renaldo had spoken with such rapture and adoration.
It was not without reason he had expatiated upon the personal attractions of this young lady,
whom, for the present, we shall call Monimia, a name that implies her orphan situation.  When
she entered the room, even Fathom, whose eyes had been sated with beauty, was struck dumb with
admiration, and could scarce recollect himself so far as to perform the ceremony of his introduction.

She seemed to be about the age of eighteen.  Her stature was tall; her motion graceful.  A
knot of artificial flowers restrained the luxuriancy of her fine black hair, that flowed in
shining ringlets adown her snowy neck.  The contour of her face was oval; her forehead remarkably
high; her complexion clean and delicate, though not florid; and her eyes were so piercing,
as to strike the soul of every beholder.  Yet, upon this occasion, one half of their vivacity
was eclipsed by a languishing air of melancholy concern; which, while it in a manner sheathed
the edge of her beauty, added a most engaging sweetness to her looks.  In short, every feature
was elegantly perfect; and the harmony of the whole ravishing and delightful.

It was easy to perceive the mutual sentiments of the two lovers at meeting, by the pleasure
that sensibly diffused itself in the countenances of both.  Fathom was received by her as the
intimate friend of her admirer, whom she had often heard of in terms of the most sincere affection;
and the conversation was carried on in the Italian language, because she was a foreigner who
had not as yet made great proficiency in the knowledge of the English tongue.  Her understanding
was such as, instead of diminishing, reinforced the prepossession which was inspired by her
appearance; and if the sum-total of her charms could not melt the heart, it at least excited
the appetite of Fathom to such a degree, that he gazed upon her with such violence of desire,
as had never transported him before; and he instantly began to harbour thoughts, not only destructive
to the peace of his generous patron, but also to the prudential maxims he had adopted on his
first entrance into life.

We have already recorded divers instances of his conduct to prove that there was an intemperance
in his blood, which often interfered with his caution; and although he had found means to render
this heat sometimes subservient to his interest, yet, in all probability, Heaven mingled the
ingredient in his constitution, on purpose to counteract his consummate craft, defeat the villany
of his intention, and at least expose him to the justice of the law, and the contempt of his
fellow-creatures.

Stimulated as he was by the beauty of the incomparable Monimia, he foresaw that the conquest
of her heart would cost him a thousand times more labour and address than all the victories
he had ever achieved; for, besides her superior understanding, her sentiments of honour, virtue,
gratitude, religion, and pride of birth, her heart was already engaged by the tenderest ties
of love and obligation, to a man whose person and acquired accomplishments at least equalled
his own; and whose connexion with him was of such a nature as raised an almost insurmountable
bar to his design; because, with what face could he commence rival to the person whose family
had raised him from want and servility, and whose own generosity had rescued him from the miseries
of a dreary gaol?

Notwithstanding these reflections, he would not lay aside an idea which so agreeably flattered
his imagination.  He, like every other projector in the same circumstances, was so partial
to his own qualifications, as to think the lady would soon perceive a difference between him
and Renaldo that could not fail to turn to his advantage in her opinion.  He depended a good
deal on the levity and inconstancy of the sex; and did not doubt that, in the course of their
acquaintance, he should profit by that languor which often creeps upon and flattens the intercourse
of lovers cloyed with the sight and conversation of each other.

This way of arguing was very natural to a man who had never known other motives than those
of sensuality and convenience; and perhaps, upon these maxims, he might have succeeded with
nine-tenths of the fair sex.  But, for once, he erred in his calculation; Monimia's soul was
perfect, her virtue impregnable.  His first approaches were, as usual, performed by the method
of insinuation, which succeeded so well, that in a few days he actually acquired a very distinguished
share of her favour and esteem. To this he had been recommended, in the warmest strain of exaggerating
friendship, by her dear Renaldo; so that, placing the most unreserved confidence in his honour
and integrity, and being almost quite destitute of acquaintance, she made no scruple of owning
herself pleased with his company and conversation; and therefore he was never abridged in point
of opportunity.  She had too much discernment to overlook his uncommon talents and agreeable
address, and too much susceptibility to observe them with indifference.  She not only regarded
him as the confidant of her lover, but admired him as a person whose attachment did honour
to Count Melvil's choice.  She found his discourse remarkably entertaining, his politeness
dignified with an air of uncommon sincerity, and she was ravished with his skill in music,
an art of which she was deeply enamoured.

While he thus ingratiated himself with the fair Monimia, Renaldo rejoiced at their intimacy,
being extremely happy in the thought of having found a friend who could amuse and protect the
dear creature in his absence. That she might be the better prepared for the temporary separation
which he meditated, he began to be less frequent in his visits, or rather to interrupt, by
gradual intermissions, the constant attendance he had bestowed upon her since her mother's
death.  This alteration she was enabled to bear by the assiduities of Fathom, when she understood
that her lover was indispensably employed in negotiating a sum of money for the purposes of
his intended voyage.  This was really the case; for, as the reader hath been already informed,
the provision he had made for that emergency was expended in behalf of our adventurer; and
the persons of whom he had borrowed it, far from approving of the use to which it was put,
and accommodating him with a fresh supply, reproached him with his benevolence as an act of
dishonesty to them; and, instead of favouring this second application, threatened to distress
him for what he had already received.  While he endeavoured to surmount these difficulties,
his small reversion was quite exhausted, and he saw himself on the brink of wanting the common
necessaries of life.

There was no difficulty which he could not have encountered with fortitude, had he alone been
concerned.  But his affection and regard for Monimia were of such a delicate nature, that,
far from being able to bear the prospect of her wanting the least convenience, he could not
endure that she should suspect her situation cost him a moment's perplexity; because he foresaw
it would wring her gentle heart with unspeakable anguish and vexation.  This, therefore, he
endeavoured to anticipate by expressions of confidence in the Emperor's equity, and frequent
declarations touching the goodness and security of that credit from which he derived his present
subsistence.

CHAPTER FORTY-FOUR

ANECDOTES OF POVERTY, AND EXPERIMENTS FOR THE BENEFIT OF THOSE WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.

His affairs being thus circumstanced, it is not to be supposed that he passed his time in tranquillity.
Every day ushered in new demands and fresh anxiety; for though his economy was frugal, it could
not be supported without money; and now not only his funds were drained, but also his private
friends tired of relieving his domestic necessities; nay, they began to relinquish his company,
which formerly they had coveted; and those who still favoured him with their company embittered
that favour with disagreeable advice, mingled with impertinent reproof. They loudly exclaimed
against the last instance of his friendship for Fathom, as a piece of wrong-headed extravagance,
which neither his fortune could afford nor his conscience excuse; and alleged that such specimens
of generosity are vicious in any man, let his finances be never so opulent, if he has any relations
of his own who need his assistance; but altogether scandalous, not to say unjust, in a person
who depends for his own support on the favour of his friends.

These expostulations did not even respect the beauteous, the accomplished, the gentle-hearted,
the orphan Monimia.  Although they owned her perfections, and did not deny that it would be
highly meritorious in any man of fortune to make her happy, they disapproved of Renaldo's attachment
to the fair beggar, made light of that intimate union of hearts which subsisted between the
two lovers, and which no human consideration could dissolve; and some among them, in the consummation
of their prudence, ventured to hint a proposal of providing for her in the service of some
lady of fashion.

Any reader of sensibility will easily conceive how these admonitions were relished by a young
gentleman whose pride was indomitable, whose notions of honour were scrupulously rigid and
romantic, whose temper was warm, and whose love was intense.  Every such suggestion was as
a dagger to his soul; and what rendered the torture more exquisite, he lay under obligations
to those very persons whose selfish and sordid sentiments he disdained; so that he was restricted
by gratitude from giving vent to his indignation, and his forlorn circumstances would not permit
him to renounce their acquaintance.  While he struggled with these mortifications, his wants
grew more and more importunate, and his creditors became clamorous.

Fathom, to whom all his grievances were disclosed, lamented his hard hap with all the demonstrations
of sympathy which he could expect to find in such a zealous adherent.  He upbraided himself
incessantly as the cause of his patron's distress; took God to witness that he would rather
have perished in gaol than have enjoyed his liberty, had he known it would have cost his dearest
friend and benefactor one-tenth part of the anguish he now saw him suffer; and, in conclusion,
the fervency of his affection glowed to such a degree, that he offered to beg, steal, or plunder
on the highway, for Renaldo's assistance.

Certain it is, he might have recollected a less disagreeable expedient than any of these to
alleviate the pangs of this unhappy lover; for, at that very period he was possessed of money
and moveables to the amount of a much greater sum than that which was necessary to remove the
severest pangs of the Count's misfortune.  But, whether he did not reflect upon this resource,
or was willing to let Melvil be better acquainted with adversity, which is the great school
of life, I shall leave the reader to determine.  Yet, so far was he from supplying the wants
of the young Hungarian, that he did not scruple to receive a share of the miserable pittance
which that gentleman made shift to extort from the complaisance of a few companions, whose
countenance he still enjoyed.

Renaldo's life was now become a sacrifice to the most poignant distress. Almost his whole time
was engrossed by a double scheme, comprehending his efforts to render his departure practicable,
and his expedients for raising the means of daily bread.  With regard to the first, he exerted
himself among a set of merchants, some of whom knew his family and expectations; and, for the
last, he was fain to depend upon the assistance of a few intimates, who were not in a condition
to furnish him with sums of consequence.  These, however, gradually dropped off, on pretence
of friendly resentment for his indiscreet conduct; so that he found himself naked and deserted
by all his former companions, except one gentleman, with whom he had lived in the most unreserved
correspondence, as with a person of the warmest friendship, and the most unbounded benevolence;
nay, he had actually experienced repeated proofs of his generosity; and such were the Count's
sentiments of the gratitude, love, and esteem, which were due to the author of these obligations,
that he would have willingly laid down his own life for his interest or advantage.  He had
already been at different times accommodated by this benefactor with occasional supplies, amounting
in the whole to about forty or fifty pounds; and so fearful was he of taking any step by which
he might forfeit the goodwill of this gentleman, that he struggled with unparelleled difficulty
and vexation, before he could prevail upon himself to put his liberality to another proof.

What maxims of delicacy will not the dire calls of necessity infringe! Reduced to the alternative
of applying once more to that beneficence which had never failed him, or of seeing Monimia
starve, he chose the first, as of two evils the least, and intrusted Fathom with a letter explaining
the bitterness of his case.  It was not without trepidation that he received in the evening
from his messenger an answer to this billet; but what were his pangs when he learned the contents!
The gentleman, after having professed himself Melvil's sincere well-wisher, gave him to understand,
that he was resolved for the future to detach himself from every correspondence which would
be inconvenient for him to maintain; that he considered his intimacy with the Count in that
light; yet, nevertheless, if his distress was really as great as he had described it, he would
still contribute something towards his relief; and accordingly had sent by the bearer five
guineas for that purpose; but desired him to take notice, that, in so doing, he laid himself
under some difficulty.

Renaldo's grief and mortification at this disappointment were unspeakable.  He now saw demolished
the last screen betwixt him and the extremity of indigence and woe; he beheld the mistress
of his soul abandoned to the bleakest scenes of poverty and want; and he deeply resented the
lofty strain of the letter, by which he conceived himself treated as a worthless spendthrift
and importunate beggar.  Though his purse was exhausted to the last shilling; though he was
surrounded with necessities and demands, and knew not how to provide another meal for his fair
dependent, he, in opposition to all the suggestions and eloquence of Fathom, despatched him
with the money and another billet, intimating, in the most respectful terms, that he approved
of his friend's new-adopted maxim, which, for the future, he should always take care to remember;
and that he had sent back the last instance of his bounty, as a proof how little he was disposed
to incommode his benefactor.

This letter, though sincerely meant, and written in a very serious mood, the gentleman considered
as an ungrateful piece of irony, and in that opinion complained to several persons of the Count's
acquaintance, who unanimously exclaimed against him as a sordid, unthankful, and profligate
knave, that abused and reviled those very people who had generously befriended him, whenever
they found it inconvenient to nourish his extravagance with further supplies.  Notwithstanding
these accumulated oppressions, he still persevered with fortitude in his endeavours to disentangle
himself from this maze of misery.  To these he was encouraged by a letter which about this
time he received from his sister, importing, that she had good reason to believe the real will
of her father had been suppressed for certain sinister views; and desiring him to hasten his
departure for Hungary, where he would still find some friends who were both able and willing
to support his cause.  He had some trinkets left; the pawnbroker's shop was still open; and
hitherto he made shift to conceal from Monimia the extent of his affliction.

The money-broker whom he employed, after having amused him with a variety of schemes, which
served no other purpose than that of protracting his own job, at length undertook to make him
acquainted with a set of monied men who had been very venturous in lending sums upon personal
security; he was therefore introduced to their club in the most favourable manner, after the
broker had endeavoured to prepossess them separately, with magnificent ideas of his family
and fortune.--By means of this anticipation he was received with a manifest relaxation of that
severity which people of this class mingle in their aspects to the world in general; and they
even vied with each other in their demonstrations of hospitality and respect; for every one
in particular looked upon him as a young heir, who would bleed freely, and mortgage at cent.
per cent.

Renaldo, buoyed up with these exterior civilities, began to flatter himself with hopes of success,
which, however, were soon checked by the nature of the conversation; during which the chairman
upbraided one of the members in open club for having once lent forty pounds upon slight security.
The person accused alleged, in his own defence, that the borrower was his own kinsman, whose
funds he knew to be sufficient; that he had granted his bond, and been at the expense of insuring
his life for the money; and, in conclusion, had discharged it to the day with great punctuality.
These allegations were not deemed exculpatory by the rest of the assembly, who with one voice
pronounced him guilty of unwarrantable rashness and indiscretion, which, in time coming, must
undoubtedly operate to the prejudice of his character and credit.

This was a bitter declaration to the young Count, who nevertheless endeavoured to improve the
footing he had gained among them, by courting their company, conforming to their manners, and
attentively listening to their discourse.  When he had cultivated them with great assiduity
for the space of some weeks, dined at their houses upon pressing invitations, and received
repeated offers of service and friendship, believing that things were now ripe for the purpose,
he, one day, at a tavern to which he had invited him to dinner, ventured to disclose his situation
to him whose countenance was the least unpromising; and as he introduced the business with
a proposal of borrowing money, he perceived his eyes sparkle with a visible alacrity, from
which he drew a happy presage. But, alas! this was no more than a transient gleam of sunshine,
which was suddenly obumbrated by the sequel of his explanation; insomuch, that, when the merchant
understood the nature of the security, his visage was involved in a most disagreeable gloom,
and his eyes distorted into a most hideous obliquity of vision; indeed, he squinted so horribly,
that Renaldo was amazed and almost affrighted at his looks, until he perceived that this distortion
proceeded from concern for a silver tobacco box which he had laid down by him on the table,
after having filled his pipe. As the youth proceeded to unfold his necessities, the other became
gradually alarmed for this utensil, to which he darted his eyes askance in this preternatural
direction, until he had slyly secured it in his pocket.

Having made this successful conveyance, he shifted his eyes alternately from the young gentleman
to the broker for a considerable pause, during which he in silence reproached the last for
introducing such a beggarly varlet to his acquaintance; then taking the pipe from his mouth,
"Sir," said he, addressing himself to the Count, "if I had all the inclination in the world
to comply with your proposal, it is really not in my power. My correspondents abroad have remitted
such a number of bad bills of late, that all my running cash hath been exhausted in supporting
their credit.  Mr. Ferret, sure I am, you was not ignorant of my situation; and I'm not a little
surprised that you should bring the gentleman to me on business of this kind; but, as the wise
man observes, Bray a fool in a mortar, and he'll never be wise."  So saying, with a most emphatic
glance directed to the broker, he rung the bell, and called for the reckoning; when, finding
that he was to be the guest of Renaldo, he thanked him drily for his good cheer, and in an
abrupt manner took himself away.

Though baffled in this quarter, the young gentleman would not despair; but forthwith employed
Mr. Ferret in an application to another of the society; who, after having heard the terms of
his commission, desired him to tell his principal, that he could do nothing without the concurrence
of his partner, who happened to be at that time in one of our American plantations.  A third
being solicited, excused himself on account of an oath which he had lately taken on the back
of a considerable loss.  A fourth being tried, made answer, that it was not in his way.  And
a fifth candidly owned, that he never lent money without proper security.

Thus the forlorn Renaldo tried every experiment without success, and now saw the last ray of
hope extinguished.  Well-nigh destitute of present support, and encompassed with unrelenting
duns, he was obliged to keep within doors, and seek some comfort in the conversation of his
charming mistress, and his faithful friend; yet, even there, he experienced the extremest rigour
of adverse fate.  Every rap at the door alarmed him with the expectation of some noisy tradesman
demanding payment.  When he endeavoured to amuse himself with drawing, some unlucky feature
of the occasional portrait recalled the image of an obdurate creditor, and made him tremble
at the work of his own hands.  When he fled for shelter to the flattering creation of fancy,
some abhorred idea always started up amidst the gay vision, and dissolved the pleasing enchantment.--Even
the seraphic voice of Monimia had no longer power to compose the anxious tumults of his mind.
Every song she warbled, every tune she played, recalled to his remembrance some scene of love
and happiness elapsed; and overwhelmed his soul with the woful comparison of past and present
fate. He saw all that was amiable and perfect in woman, all that he held most dear and sacred
upon earth, tottering on the brink of misery, without knowing the danger of her situation,
and found himself unable to prevent her fall, or even to forewarn her of the peril; for as
we have already observed, his soul could not brook the thought of communicating the tidings
of distress to the tender-hearted Monimia.

CHAPTER FORTY-FIVE

RENALDO'S DISTRESS DEEPENS, AND FATHOM'S PLOT THICKENS.

