"My son, there is no happiness without courage, nor virtue without a struggle. The word virtue
is derived from a word signifying strength, and strength is the foundation of all virtue. Virtue
is the heritage of a creature weak by nature but strong by will; that is the whole merit of
the righteous man; and though we call God good we do not call Him virtuous, because He does
good without effort. I waited to explain the meaning of this word, so often profaned, until
you were ready to understand me. As long as virtue is quite easy to practise, there is little
need to know it. This need arises with the awakening of the passions; your time has come.

"When I brought you up in all the simplicity of nature, instead of preaching disagreeable duties,
I secured for you immunity from the vices which make such duties disagreeable; I made lying
not so much hateful as unnecessary in your sight; I taught you not so much to give others their
due, as to care little about your own rights; I made you kindly rather than virtuous. But the
kindly man is only kind so long as he finds it pleasant; kindness falls to pieces at the shook
of human passions; the kindly man is only kind to himself.

"What is meant by a virtuous man? He who can conquer his affections; for then he follows his
reason, his conscience; he does his duty; he is his own master and nothing can turn him from
the right way. So far you have had only the semblance of liberty, the precarious liberty of
the slave who has not received his orders. Now is the time for real freedom; learn to be your
own master; control your heart, my Emile, and you will be virtuous.

"There is another apprenticeship before you, an apprenticeship more difficult than the former;
for nature delivers us from the evils she lays upon us, or else she teaches us to submit to
them; but she has no message for us with regard to our self-imposed evils; she leaves us to
ourselves; she leaves us, victims of our own passions, to succumb to our vain sorrows, to pride
ourselves on the tears of which we should be ashamed.

"This is your first passion. Perhaps it is the only passion worthy of you. If you can control
it like a man, it will be the last; you will be master of all the rest, and you will obey nothing
but the passion for virtue.

"There is nothing criminal in this passion; I know it; it is as pure as the hearts which experience
it. It was born of honour and nursed by innocence. Happy lovers! for you the charms of virtue
do but add to those of love; and the blessed union to which you are looking forward is less
the reward of your goodness than of your affection.  But tell me, O truthful man, though this
passion is pure, is it any the less your master? Are you the less its slave? And if to-morrow
it should cease to be innocent, would you strangle it on the spot?  Now is the time to try
your strength; there is no time for that in hours of danger. These perilous efforts should
be made when danger is still afar. We do not practise the use of our weapons when we are face
to face with the enemy, we do that before the war; we come to the battle-field ready prepared.

"It is a mistake to classify the passions as lawful and unlawful, so as to yield to the one
and refuse the other. All alike are good if we are their masters; all alike are bad if we abandon
ourselves to them. Nature forbids us to extend our relations beyond the limits of our strength;
reason forbids us to want what we cannot get, conscience forbids us, not to be tempted, but
to yield to temptation. To feel or not to feel a passion is beyond our control, but we can
control ourselves. Every sentiment under our own control is lawful; those which control us
are criminal. A man is not guilty if he loves his neighbour's wife, provided he keeps this
unhappy passion under the control of the law of duty; he is guilty if he loves his own wife
so greatly as to sacrifice everything to that love.

"Do not expect me to supply you with lengthy precepts of morality, I have only one rule to
give you which sums up all the rest. Be a man; restrain your heart within the limits of your
manhood. Study and know these limits; however narrow they may be, we are not unhappy within
them; it is only when we wish to go beyond them that we are unhappy, only when, in our mad
passions, we try to attain the impossible; we are unhappy when we forget our manhood to make
an imaginary world for ourselves, from which we are always slipping back into our own. The
only good things, whose loss really affects us, are those which we claim as our rights. If
it is clear that we cannot obtain what we want, our mind turns away from it; wishes without
hope cease to torture us. A beggar is not tormented by a desire to be a king; a king only wishes
to be a god when he thinks himself more than man.

"The illusions of pride are the source of our greatest ills; but the contemplation of human
suffering keeps the wise humble. He keeps to his proper place and makes no attempt to depart
from it; he does not waste his strength in getting what he cannot keep; and his whole strength
being devoted to the right employment of what he has, he is in reality richer and more powerful
in proportion as he desires less than we. A man, subject to death and change, shall I forge
for myself lasting chains upon this earth, where everything changes and disappears, whence
I myself shall shortly vanish! Oh, Emile! my son!  if I were to lose you, what would be left
of myself? And yet I must learn to lose you, for who knows when you may be taken from me?

"Would you live in wisdom and happiness, fix your heart on the beauty that is eternal; let
your desires be limited by your position, let your duties take precedence of your wishes; extend
the law of necessity into the region of morals; learn to lose what may be taken from you; learn
to forsake all things at the command of virtue, to set yourself above the chances of life,
to detach your heart before it is torn in pieces, to be brave in adversity so that you may
never be wretched, to be steadfast in duty that you may never be guilty of a crime. Then you
will be happy in spite of fortune, and good in spite of your passions. You will find a pleasure
that cannot be destroyed, even in the possession of the most fragile things; you will possess
them, they will not possess you, and you will realise that the man who loses everything, only
enjoys what he knows how to resign. It is true you will not enjoy the illusions of imaginary
pleasures, neither will you feel the sufferings which are their result. You will profit greatly
by this exchange, for the sufferings are real and frequent, the pleasures are rare and empty.
Victor over so many deceitful ideas, you will also vanquish the idea that attaches such an
excessive value to life. You will spend your life in peace, and you will leave it without terror;
you will detach yourself from life as from other things. Let others, horror-struck, believe
that when this life is ended they cease to be; conscious of the nothingness of life, you will
think that you are but entering upon the true life. To the wicked, death is the close of life;
to the just it is its dawn."

Emile heard me with attention not unmixed with anxiety. After such a startling preface he feared
some gloomy conclusion. He foresaw that when I showed him how necessary it is to practise the
strength of the soul, I desired to subject him to this stern discipline; he was like a wounded
man who shrinks from the surgeon, and fancies he already feels the painful but healing touch
which will cure the deadly wound.

Uncertain, anxious, eager to know what I am driving at, he does not answer, he questions me
but timidly. "What must I do?" says he almost trembling, not daring to raise his eyes. "What
must you do?" I reply firmly. "You must leave Sophy." "What are you saying?" he exclaimed angrily.
"Leave Sophy, leave Sophy, deceive her, become a traitor, a villain, a perjurer!" "Why!" I
continue, interrupting him; "does Emile suppose I shall teach him to deserve such titles?"
"No," he continued with the same vigour. "Neither you nor any one else; I am capable of preserving
your work; I shall not deserve such reproaches."

I was prepared for this first outburst; I let it pass unheeded. If I had not the moderation
I preach it would not be much use preaching it! Emile knows me too well to believe me capable
of demanding any wrong action from him, and he knows that it would be wrong to leave Sophy,
in the sense he attaches to the phrase. So he waits for an explanation. Then I resume my speech.

"My dear Emile, do you think any man whatsoever can be happier than you have been for the last
three months? If you think so, undeceive yourself. Before tasting the pleasures of life you
have plumbed the depths of its happiness. There is nothing more than you have already experienced.
The joys of sense are soon over; habit invariably destroys them. You have tasted greater joys
through hope than you will ever enjoy in reality. The imagination which adorns what we long
for, deserts its possession. With the exception of the one self-existing Being, there is nothing
beautiful except that which is not. If that state could have lasted for ever, you would have
found perfect happiness. But all that is related to man shares his decline; all is finite,
all is fleeting in human life, and even if the conditions which make us happy could be prolonged
for ever, habit would deprive us of all taste for that happiness. If external circumstances
remain unchanged, the heart changes; either happiness forsakes us, or we forsake her.

"During your infatuation time has passed unheeded. Summer is over, winter is at hand. Even
if our expeditions were possible, at such a time of year they would not be permitted. Whether
we wish it or no, we shall have to change our way of life; it cannot continue. I read in your
eager eyes that this does not disturb you greatly; Sophy's confession and your own wishes suggest
a simple plan for avoiding the snow and escaping the journey. The plan has its advantages,
no doubt; but when spring returns, the snow will melt and the marriage will remain; you must
reckon for all seasons.

"You wish to marry Sophy and you have only known her five months! You wish to marry her, not
because she is a fit wife for you, but because she pleases you; as if love were never mistaken
as to fitness, as if those, who begin with love, never ended with hatred! I know she is virtuous;
but is that enough? Is fitness merely a matter of honour? It is not her virtue I misdoubt,
it is her disposition. Does a woman show her real character in a day? Do you know how often
you must have seen her and under what varying conditions to really know her temper? Is four
months of liking a sufficient pledge for the rest of your life? A couple of months hence you
may have forgotten her; as soon as you are gone another may efface your image in her heart;
on your return you may find her as indifferent as you have hitherto found her affectionate.
Sentiments are not a matter of principle; she may be perfectly virtuous and yet cease to love
you. I am inclined to think she will be faithful and true; but who will answer for her, and
who will answer for you if you are not put to the proof? Will you postpone this trial till
it is too late, will you wait to know your true selves till parting is no longer possible?

"Sophy is not eighteen, and you are barely twenty-two; this is the age for love, but not for
marriage. What a father and mother for a family! If you want to know how to bring up children,
you should at least wait till you yourselves are children no longer. Do you not know that too
early motherhood has weakened the constitution, destroyed the health, and shortened the life
of many young women? Do you not know that many children have always been weak and sickly because
their mother was little more than a child herself? When mother and child are both growing,
the strength required for their growth is divided, and neither gets all that nature intended;
are not both sure to suffer? Either I know very little of Emile, or he would rather wait and
have a healthy wife and children, than satisfy his impatience at the price of their life and
health.

"Let us speak of yourself. You hope to be a husband and a father; have you seriously considered
your duties? When you become the head of a family you will become a citizen of your country.
And what is a citizen of the state? What do you know about it? You have studied your duties
as a man, but what do you know of the duties of a citizen? Do you know the meaning of such
terms as government, laws, country? Do you know the price you must pay for life, and for what
you must be prepared to die? You think you know everything, when you really know nothing at
all. Before you take your place in the civil order, learn to perceive and know what is your
proper place.

"Emile, you must leave Sophy; I do not bid you forsake her; if you were capable of such conduct,
she would be only too happy not to have married you; you must leave her in order to return
worthy of her. Do not be vain enough to think yourself already worthy. How much remains to
be done! Come and fulfil this splendid task; come and learn to submit to absence; come and
earn the prize of fidelity, so that when you return you may indeed deserve some honour, and
may ask her hand not as a favour but as a reward."

Unaccustomed to struggle with himself, untrained to desire one thing and to will another, the
young man will not give way; he resists, he argues. Why should he refuse the happiness which
awaits him? Would he not despise the hand which is offered him if he hesitated to accept it?
Why need he leave her to learn what he ought to know? And if it were necessary to leave her
why not leave her as his wife with a certain pledge of his return? Let him be her husband,
and he is ready to follow me; let them be married and he will leave her without fear. "Marry
her in order to leave her, dear Emile! what a contradiction! A lover who can leave his mistress
shows himself capable of great things; a husband should never leave his wife unless through
necessity. To cure your scruples, I see the delay must be involuntary on your part; you must
be able to tell Sophy you leave her against your will. Very well, be content, and since you
will not follow the commands of reason, you must submit to another master. You have not forgotten
your promise. Emile, you must leave Sophy; I will have it."

For a moment or two he was downcast, silent, and thoughtful, then looking me full in the face
he said, "When do we start?" "In a week's time," I replied; "Sophy must be prepared for our
going. Women are weaker than we are, and we must show consideration for them; and this parting
is not a duty for her as it is for you, so she may be allowed to bear it less bravely."

The temptation to continue the daily history of their love up to the time of their separation
is very great; but I have already presumed too much upon the good nature of my readers; let
us abridge the story so as to bring it to an end. Will Emile face the situation as bravely
at his mistress' feet as he has done in conversation with his friend? I think he will; his
confidence is rooted in the sincerity of his love. He would be more at a loss with her, if
it cost him less to leave her; he would leave her feeling himself to blame, and that is a difficult
part for a man of honour to play; but the greater the sacrifice, the more credit he demands
for it in the sight of her who makes it so difficult. He has no fear that she will misunderstand
his motives. Every look seems to say, "Oh, Sophy, read my heart and be faithful to me; your
lover is not without virtue."

Sophy tries to bear the unforeseen blow with her usual pride and dignity. She tries to seem
as if she did not care, but as the honours of war are not hers, but Emile's, her strength is
less equal to the task. She weeps, she sighs against her will, and the fear of being forgotten
embitters the pain of parting. She does not weep in her lover's sight, she does not let him
see her terror; she would die rather than utter a sigh in his presence. I am the recipient
of her lamentations, I behold her tears, it is I who am supposed to be her confidant. Women
are very clever and know how to conceal their cleverness; the more she frets in private, the
more pains she takes to please me; she feels that her fate is in my hands.

I console and comfort her; I make myself answerable for her lover, or rather for her husband;
let her be as true to him as he to her and I promise they shall be married in two years' time.
She respects me enough to believe that I do not want to deceive her. I am guarantor to each
for the other. Their hearts, their virtue, my honesty, the confidence of their parents, all
combine to reassure them. But what can reason avail against weakness? They part as if they
were never to meet again.

Then it is that Sophy recalls the regrets of Eucharis, and fancies herself in her place. Do
not let us revive that fantastic affection during his absence "Sophy," say I one day, "exchange
books with Emile; let him have your Telemachus that he may learn to be like him, and let him
give you his Spectator which you enjoy reading. Study the duties of good wives in it, and remember
that in two years' time you will undertake those duties." The exchange gave pleasure to both
and inspired them with confidence. At last the sad day arrived and they must part.

Sophy's worthy father, with whom I had arranged the whole business, took affectionate leave
of me, and taking me aside, he spoke seriously and somewhat emphatically, saying, "I have done
everything to please you; I knew I had to do with a man of honour; I have only one word to
say. Remembering your pupil has signed his contract of marriage on my daughter's lips."

What a difference in the behaviour of the two lovers! Emile, impetuous, eager, excited, almost
beside himself, cries aloud and sheds torrents of tears upon the hands of father, mother, and
daughter; with sobs he embraces every one in the house and repeats the same thing over and
over again in a way that would be ludicrous at any other time. Sophy, pale, sorrowful, doleful,
and heavy-eyed, remains quiet without a word or a tear, she sees no one, not even Emile. In
vain he takes her hand, and clasps her in his arms; she remains motionless, unheeding his tears,
his caresses, and everything he does; so far as she is concerned, he is gone already.  A sight
more moving than the prolonged lamentations and noisy regrets of her lover! He sees, he feels,
he is heartbroken. I drag him reluctantly away; if I left him another minute, he would never
go. I am delighted that he should carry this touching picture with him. If he should ever be
tempted to forget what is due to Sophy, his heart must have strayed very far indeed if I cannot
bring it back to her by recalling her as he saw her last.

OF TRAVEL

Is it good for young people to travel? The question is often asked and as often hotly disputed.
If it were stated otherwise--Are men the better for having travelled?--perhaps there would
be less difference of opinion.

The misuse of books is the death of sound learning. People think they know what they have read,
and take no pains to learn. Too much reading only produces a pretentious ignoramus. There was
never so much reading in any age as the present, and never was there less learning; in no country
of Europe are so many histories and books of travel printed as in France, and nowhere is there
less knowledge of the mind and manners of other nations. So many books lead us to neglect the
book of the world; if we read it at all, we keep each to our own page. If the phrase, "Can
one become a Persian," were unknown to me, I should suspect on hearing it that it came from
the country where national prejudice is most prevalent and from the sex which does most to
increase it.

A Parisian thinks he has a knowledge of men and he knows only Frenchmen; his town is always
full of foreigners, but he considers every foreigner as a strange phenomenon which has no equal
in the universe. You must have a close acquaintance with the middle classes of that great city,
you must have lived among them, before you can believe that people could be at once so witty
and so stupid. The strangest thing about it is that probably every one of them has read a dozen
times a description of the country whose inhabitants inspire him with such wonder.

To discover the truth amidst our own prejudices and those of the authors is too hard a task.
I have been reading books of travels all my life, but I never found two that gave me the same
idea of the same nation. On comparing my own scanty observations with what I have read, I have
decided to abandon the travellers and I regret the time wasted in trying to learn from their
books; for I am quite convinced that for that sort of study, seeing not reading is required.
That would be true enough if every traveller were honest, if he only said what he saw and believed,
and if truth were not tinged with false colours from his own eyes. What must it be when we
have to disentangle the truth from the web of lies and ill-faith?

Let us leave the boasted resources of books to those who are content to use them. Like the
art of Raymond Lully they are able to set people chattering about things they do not know.
They are able to set fifteen-year-old Platos discussing philosophy in the clubs, and teaching
people the customs of Egypt and the Indies on the word of Paul Lucas or Tavernier.

I maintain that it is beyond dispute that any one who has only seen one nation does not know
men; he only knows those men among whom he has lived. Hence there is another way of stating
the question about travel: "Is it enough for a well-educated man to know his fellow-countrymen,
or ought he to know mankind in general?" Then there is no place for argument or uncertainty.
See how greatly the solution of a difficult problem may depend on the way in which it is stated.

But is it necessary to travel the whole globe to study mankind? Need we go to Japan to study
Europeans? Need we know every individual before we know the species? No, there are men so much
alike that it is not worth while to study them individually. When you have seen a dozen Frenchmen
you have seen them all. Though one cannot say as much of the English and other nations, it
is, however, certain that every nation has its own specific character, which is derived by
induction from the study, not of one, but many of its members. He who has compared a dozen
nations knows men, just he who has compared a dozen Frenchmen knows the French.

