The backwoods life, as a rule, I found led to hard drinking, and even the old settler with
whom I had taken quarters, though an excellent and affectionate head of his family, and in
his ordinary life temperate and hard-working, used at long intervals to break bounds, and,
taking his savings down to the settlement, drink till he could neither pay for more nor "get
it on trust," and then come home penitent and humiliated. About two weeks after I entered the
family, the old man took me aside and informed me, mysteriously, that he was going to the settlement
for a few days, and begged me to take one of the boats and come down for him on a fixed day,
and he would row the boat back. I rowed down accordingly, sixteen miles, and found Johnson
at the landing in a state of fading intoxication, money and credit exhausted as usual, and
begging some one to give him a half pint of rum "to ease up on." He was "all on fire inside
of him," and begged so piteously that I got him a half pint and we started out, he at the oars
and I steering. A copious draught of rum, neat, brought his saturated brain to overflow, and
before we had gone a mile he was so drunk that I had to guide the oars from behind to insure
their taking the water. Then he broke out into singing, beating time on the gunwale of the
boat with such violence that it menaced capsizing every minute, and to all my remonstrances
he replied by jeering and more uproarious jollity.

It was no joke, for not to talk of him, too drunk even to hold on to the boat, I was a poor
swimmer, and in the deep and cold lake water should never have reached the shore swimming,
and I found myself obliged to menace violence. I raised the steering paddle over his head and
assured him with a savageness that reached even his drunken brain, that I should knock him
on the head and pitch him overboard if he did not keep perfectly quiet. There was imminent
danger, for the slight boat of that region requires to be treated with the care of a bark canoe,
and the menace cowed him so that he quieted down, and watched me like a whipped dog. I tried
to get the bottle away from him, but his drunken cunning anticipated me and he put it far behind
him, now and then taking a mouthful of rum to keep down the burning. Thus, he pulling and I
guiding the oars, we ran through the lower lake, seven miles, to a "carry," where the boat
had to be lifted out and carried over into the river above, around a waterfall. Here I fortunately
caught the bottle and sent it down the lake, and we labored on through another lake, three
miles, and up a crooked river to another carry into the third lake, on which we lived. He was
too drunk still to be trusted any further, and, leaving the boat at the landing with him beside
it, I carried the load over and waited for him to get sober. After an interval, long enough
I thought for him to grow sober enough to carry the boat, I went back and to my amazement he
met me, apparently in his right mind, intensely indignant with some one who, having found him
in the state of intoxication in which I left him, had given him a drink of what he called "high
wines," i.e. common alcohol, the singular effect of which was to bring him immediately to his
senses, and we reached home without further incident.

That night, somewhere near midnight, poor Mrs. Johnson awoke me, begging piteously that I would
help her and her daughter to search for her husband, who had disappeared from the house. Then
she told me that he had the habit of falling into desperate melancholy after his drunken fits,
and had even attempted suicide, and they had on one occasion cut the rope by which he had hanged
himself, barely in time, and she always expected to find him dead somewhere. We ransacked the
house, the loft, the barn, the stable, in all their corners, every shed and nook about the
premises and were returning hopeless, to wait for daylight to look for him in the lake, when,
as I passed the wood-yard (where the fire-wood was stored and chopped), I heard a groan, and,
guided by it, found him lying amongst the chips in the torpor of drunken sleep. The poor wife,
with my assistance, dragged him home and put him to bed, and when I saw him the next morning
I heard over and over again his vows and resolutions, his sermons against drink, his repentance
and pledges never to touch liquor again. When I showed incredulity, he offered to bet with
me his best yoke of oxen against one hundred dollars that he never would drink another drop
as long as he lived. I thought the bet a safe one for me, at all events, and took it and made
him write it down, and it probably kept him from another spree as long as I remained there,
but when I saw him again the next summer he was as drunk as ever. I asked him about my oxen,
and he leered and jeered and joked with drunken cunning, but said nothing more.

I passed a very happy summer, enjoying my work and wandering in the forest or exploring the
streams which flowed into the lake, for subjects. The pure air and the tranquillity of the
life, as well as its simplicity, and a certain amount of boating exercise which I went through
every day in going to my subject, brought me to the highest point of physical health I had
ever known.

The great danger to the uninitiated in the forest life is that of getting lost in this wild
maze of trees, with no kind of landmark to serve as a clue. Not a few rash beginners have become
bewildered, lost all conception of their whereabouts, and perished of starvation within a short
walk of a place of refuge. The houses there were invariably built by the waterways, and the
lines of communication were by water, so that there was no necessity for roads. One finds the
"runways" or paths made by the deer traversing the woods in every direction,--a perfect labyrinth
of byways, ending nowhere and often bringing the incautious wanderer, who supposes them to
be paths, back to his starting-place, with the result that he is at once bewildered beyond
recovery.

Years before, during one of my college vacations, I had made a fishing excursion to the northern
edge of the great woods, in company with a classmate to the manner born, and had learned the
need in my excursions of precautions against the bewilderment which follows the loss of one's
sense of direction. He told me of one of the inexperienced assistants of a surveying party
of which he was a member, engaged in running a township line in the trackless forest, who ventured
to leave the line a few minutes, and, before he could recover it, though only a short distance
from his party, had become quite insane, and could only be compelled to return with his companions
by force. An artist friend who had sketched on the southern border of the Wilderness told me
of a similar experience of an English shoemaker who came to settle in a village on the southern
edge of the woods, and who, after a short residence, went out to fish in a stream not far from
home. He did not return, and, though protracted search was made for him, no trace of him, nor
even of his clothing, was ever discovered, except that a resident in a neighboring village
said that, a day or two after the stranger had disappeared, a man answering to the description
came to his door, his clothes in tatters, and, in a wild and incoherent manner, asked the way
to the village from which he had gone, but, before any reply could be made, started off running
and disappeared in the woods again. He had contracted the woods madness and so perished.

Of this danger I was well informed, and, beside, I was more or less a child of the woodlands,
and had no apprehension of it, having, moreover, an implicit faith in what I considered a kind
of spiritual guidance in all I did,--a delusion which at least served to keep me in absolute
self-control under all circumstances. It was probably this which kept me during my wanderings
from falling into the panic which constituted the real danger, depriving the victim temporarily
of the use of his reasoning powers. I had, however, an interesting experience which gave me
a clearer comprehension of the phenomenon, which is a very curious one.

One of the woodsmen had told me of a waterfall on a trout stream of considerable size which
emptied into a lake near by us, and, in the hope of finding a subject in it, I took the boat
one afternoon and began to follow the course of the stream up from the mouth. After a half
mile of clear and navigable water it became so clogged with fallen trees that more lifting
than paddling was required, and, as its course was extremely tortuous, I occasionally got out
and examined the vicinity of the stream bed and the course above, if, perchance, there might
be better navigation beyond. On one of the digressions I suddenly came on the stream running
back on its previous course and parallel to it. Instantly, in the twinkling of an eye, the
entire landscape seemed to have changed its bearings,--the sun, which was clear in the sky,
it being about three o'clock, shone to me out of the north, and it was impossible to convince
myself that my senses deceived me, or accept the fact that the sun must be in the southwest,
the general direction from which the stream was flowing, and that, to get home again, I must
turn my back to it, if I had lost my boat, as seemed certain. Then began to come over me, like
an evil spell, the bewilderment and the panic which accompanied it. Fortunately, I recognized
this panic from the experiences I knew of, and was aware that if I gave way to it I was a lost
man, beyond any finding by the woodsmen, even if they attempted to track me.

Fresh wolf tracks were plenty all along the bank of the stream; panthers and bears abounded
in that section, and the wilderness beyond me was never explored, and hardly penetrable, so
dense was the undergrowth of dwarf firs and swamp cedars. I had one terrible moment of clear
consciousness that if I went astray at that juncture no human being would ever know where I
was, and the absolute necessity of recovering my sense of the points of compass was clear to
me. By a strong effort of the will, I repressed the growing panic, sat down on a log and covered
my face with my hands, and waited, I had no idea how long, but until I felt quite calm; and
when I looked out on the landscape again I found the sun in his proper place and the landscape
as I had known it. I walked back to my boat without difficulty and went home, and I never lost
my head again while I frequented the wilderness. I grew in time to know the points of the compass,
even when the sky was covered, and often came home from my excursions after sunset without
confusion, but I know that I then owed my escape from the most terrible of deaths entirely
to my presence of mind, and this I probably owed then, and always, to that supreme confidence
in the protection of a superior power which never deserted me.

My studies in spiritism had developed in me another feeling which was kin to this--a belief
in a spiritual insight, the possession of which would always, if entire confidence were placed
in it, tell one at the moment what should be done; an intuition which would guide him, but
only on the condition that it was trusted absolutely. And at that period of my life I followed
it with unfaltering trust. A curious illustration of this state of mind and its effect had
already occurred to me in the spring, and, as it relates to this topic and involves a very
curious psychological phenomenon, I describe it in connection with the so similar experience
of the backwoods. I had made an engagement with Mr. Brown, the sculptor, to meet him on the
trout brook that ran through my uncle's farm in Rensselaer County, New York, a hundred and
fifty miles from New York city, but I lost the last train by which I should have met him at
the appointed time,--daybreak of the following day. Determined to keep the engagement, I took
a parallel railway, which ran through western Massachusetts and a section of country which
was entirely strange to me. From the station at which I left the railway, that of Pittsfield,
there was a distance of several miles to the place of rendezvous, which was in the town of
Hancock, close to the boundary line between New York and Massachusetts. On leaving the station
I inquired the way to Hancock, and was told that as the crow flies, i.e. across an intervening
mountain, it was twelve miles without even a footpath; but, by the road around the mountain,
twenty, and that, unless I knew the mountain, I could not possibly find my way over it. It
was just sunset as I left Pittsfield, and I decided to risk the mountain, and, following a
wood road, I climbed the steep declivity, and, going in what seemed to me a nearly direct course,
after an hour's walk I recognized a gap in the hill-crest and a distant view with two little
lakes reflecting the sky which I had seen the hour before. I had been following a charcoal-burner's
road in a circle; daylight had gone, and the mists were coming on heavy as rain, making it
impossible to see ten yards before me. There was no recourse, if I was to keep the rendezvous,
but to follow the guidance of the inner sense. I determined to obey the monitor, and plunged
into the forest, in unhesitating obedience to it. I did not guess, nor did I try to make any
kind of calculation. I felt that I must go in a certain direction, and, as the darkness deepened,
I had, literally, to grope my way, walk with my hands out before me, not to run against the
trees, for, with little exception, the way lay through dense woodland, amidst which were scattered
boulders and fallen tree trunks. I could not--and I speak without the least exaggeration--see
the trees at my arm's length. The fog was so dense and the trees so wet that every leaf or
twig dripped on me till I was soon drenched as completely as if I had been plunged into a lake.
I passed the crest of the mountain and began to descend. I felt with my foot before me, and
when the foot could find nothing to rest on I drew it back and moved sidewise till I found
a step down, hanging on all the time to the branches of the trees. I descended in this way
a long distance, then came to a marsh which I recognized only by the croaking of the frogs
in it; and, skirting the sound, made my way past it, always keeping the general direction through
the divergences made necessary by the nature of the land.

At length I got through the fog and came to an open field, beyond which I saw the outlines
of trees against the clouded sky, and, keeping on, came to a road. A few yards further on a
light was visible in a roadside cottage, and other houses were near, but all dark, as it was
late and all in them were asleep. I knocked at the door where I saw the light and asked the
way to Hancock. "Why, you are in Hancock," the man of the house replied; and, on my inquiry
as to an inn, he informed me that a hundred yards further on there was an inn, to which I went.
The rain had ceased, but I was soaking, and I asked for a fire by which to dry my clothes,
and a bed, both of which were quickly prepared; and then the landlord asked me where I came
from and by what road. When I told him that I came from Pittsfield by the mountain, he exclaimed
in amazement, "Why, there is no place by which a white man could come over in broad daylight;"
an exaggeration, as I could testify, but it proved that the passage was held to be dangerous
to the ordinary foot traveler. The incident in itself has no importance, but the singular feeling
under which I made the passage of a trackless mountain, in complete darkness for the most difficult
part of the way, in perfect confidence in a mysterious guidance which justified that confidence,
was a mental phenomenon worthy of note, the more that it was in keeping with the invariable
feeling which had grown up in me from the cogitations of years. As I am telling the story of
my life, and the spiritual influences of my early years are an essential part of that life,
it cannot be irrelevant to the general result that I should show how the springs of it acted.
While I was on the wood road in the earlier portion of the walk, I followed unhesitatingly
the visible path and made no question of guidance; but, when thrown on the occult influence
in which I confided, I walked unerringly to my destination with the precision of an animal
which nature had never deserted. In the subsequent years, of which a great part was always
spent in the wilderness, the fascination of which became absorbing, this occult faculty strengthened,
so that I was never at a loss, when in the trackless forest, for my path homeward. I then thought
it a newly acquired faculty. I now regard it as simply a recovered one, inherent in all healthy
minds, but lost, as many others have been, in civilization.

And in this connection I will deal, once for all, with the gifts to me from this wild nature
to which I abandoned myself with all the ardor of a quest. The tendency of the imagination,
even healthy, acting in a vacancy, is to create illusions, or, if there be a certain occult
mental activity, such as that I have alluded to in my Pittsfield experience, to intensify its
action to such a degree that it finally usurps the function of the senses. In the solitude
of the great Wilderness, where I have passed months at a time, generally alone, or with only
my dog to keep me company, airy nothings became sensible; and, in the silence of those nights
in the forest, the whisperings of the night wind through the trees forced meanings on the expecting
ear. I came to hear voices in the air, words so clearly spoken that even an incredulous mind
could not ignore them. I sat in my boat one evening, out on the lake, watching the effects
of the sky between the gaunt pines which, under the prevalence of the west winds, grew up with
an easterly inclination of their tops, like that of a man walking, and thus seemed to be marching
eastward into the gathering darkness. They gave a sudden impression of a procession, and I
heard as distinctly as I ever heard human speech, a voice in the air which said "the procession
of the Anakim." Over and over again, as I sat alone by my camp-fire at night, dreaming awake,
I have heard a voice from across the lake calling me to come over and fetch it, and one night
I rowed my boat in the darkness more than a mile, to find no one. Watching for deer from a
treetop one day, in broad sunlight, and looking over a mountain range, along the crest of which
were pointed firs and long level ridges of rock in irregular alternation, the eerie feeling
suddenly came over me, and the mountain-top seemed a city with spires and walls, and I heard
bands of music, and then hunting-horns coming down with the wind, and there was a perfect illusion
of the sound of a hunting party hurrying down into the valley, which gave me a positive panic,
as if I were being pursued and must run. I remember also on another occasion a transformation--transfiguration
rather--of the entire landscape in colors, such as neither Titian nor Turner ever has shown
me. It was a glorification of nature such as I had never conceived and cannot now comprehend.

The fascination of indulgence in this illusory life became such that I lingered every summer
longer, and finally until November, when, in that high and northerly locality, the snow had
fallen and the lake began to freeze, living only under a bark roof, open to the air and to
the snow, which fell on my bed during the night. I can easily imagine the life leading to insanity.
Probably my interest in nature and my painting kept me measurably free from this danger, but
not from illusions as unaccountable as spiritism, and sometimes more real than the physical
facts. I had one evening, when I was lying awake in a troubled state of mind, a vision of a
woman's face, utterly unlike anybody I had ever seen, and so beautiful that with the sheer
delight of its beauty I remained for several days in a state of ecstasy, as if it were constantly
before me, and I remember it still, after more than forty years, as more beautiful than any
face I ever saw in the flesh. It was as real while it lasted as any material object could have
been, though it was a head without a body, like one of the vignetted portraits which used to
be so fashionable in my early days.

In all these years, whether in the wilderness or in the city, I lived a life more or less visionary,
and absorbed in mental problems, in the solution of which I passed days of intense thought,
and, when no solution appeared to my unaided reason, I used to fast until the solution appeared
clear, which was often not until after days of entire abstinence from food of any kind,--the
fast lasting occasionally three days,--by which time the diminishing mental energy brought
with it a diminution of the perplexity, and I came out of the morbid state in which I had been,
and probably found that there was generally an intellectual delusion in the problem. I do not
remember the particular character of these perplexities, save that they were generally questions
of right and wrong in motive or conduct; but, from the fact that they did not leave a permanent
impression, I suppose they were of the quisquilioe which seem at times to perplex the theological
world, the stuff that dreams are made of. Up to this time all the doctrines of my early creed
held me in bondage: the observance of the Seventh-Day Sabbath, and the exigencies of the letter
of the law, which entirely hid the worth of its spirit, were imperative on me, and out of the
complication I derived little happiness and much distress. This kind of Christianity seems
to me now of the nature of those burdens which the Pharisees of old laid on the consciences
of their day, and it was only years later than the time I am here writing of, when I finally
moved to Cambridge and came under the influence of the broadest form of Christianity, that
they were removed. I owe it to one of the truest friends of my early manhood,--Charles Eliot
Norton, the friend as well of Emerson, Lowell, and Longfellow,--that the real nature of these
questions of formal morality was finally made clear to me, and life made a relatively simple
matter.

This is an anticipation of the sequence of my development, and given here not to leave occasion
to recur to the subject again. On my return from the first summer in the Wilderness, I took
a studio again in New York, and entered more formally into the fellowship of the painters of
landscape. Being under no necessity of making the occupation pay, I probably profited less
than I ought by the regime, and followed my mission of art reformer as much by a literary propaganda
as by example. This, as all know who have ventured it, was more or less the effectual obstacle
to practical attainment in art.

CHAPTER XI

JOURNALISM

Given a disposition to enter into controversies on art questions, provoked by the general incompetence
of the newspaper critics of that day, and the fact that there was at that time no publication
in America devoted to the interests of art, it happened naturally that I was drawn into correspondence
with the journals on art questions, and easily made for myself a certain reputation in this
field. I obtained the position of fine-art editor of the "Evening Post," then edited by W.C.
Bryant, a position which did not interfere with my work in the studio. My duties on the paper
were light and pecuniarily of no importance, though the "Post" was the journal which, of all
the New York dailies, paid most attention to art, and had the highest authority in questions
of culture. My relations with Bryant were intellectually profitable to me. He was a man who
enjoyed the highest consideration amongst our contemporary journalists,--of inflexible integrity
in politics as well as in business affairs. The managing editor was John Bigelow, a worthy
second to such a chief. Bryant was held to be a cold man, not only in his poetry, but in his
personal relations; but I think that, so far as his personality was concerned, this was a mistake.
He impressed me as a man of strong feelings, who had at some time been led by a too explosive
expression of them to dread his own passions, and who had, therefore, cultivated a repression
which became the habit of his life. The character of his poetry, little sympathetic with human
passion, and given to the worship of nature, confirmed the general impression of coldness which
his manner suggested. I never saw him in anger, but I felt that the barrier which prevented
it was too slight to make it safe for any one to venture to touch it. A supreme sense of justice
went with a somewhat narrow personal horizon, a combination which, while it made him hold the
balance of judgment level, so far as the large world of politics was concerned, made him often
too bitter in his controversies touching political questions; but the American political daily
paper has never had a nobler type than the "Evening Post" under Bryant. Demonstrative he never
was, even with his intimates, but to the constancy and firmness of his friendship all who knew
him well could testify, and, as long as he lived, our relations were unchanged, though my wandering
ways brought me seldom near him in later years.

It was about this time that I had become acquainted with the Browns. Of Mrs. Brown I have,
in anticipation of events, spoken in connection with spiritism, apart from which she had a
remarkable individuality in many ways. She had those instantaneous perceptions of truth in
the higher regions of thought, the spiritual and moral, which seem to be either instinct or
inspiration. Their house was the meeting place of a school of transcendental thinkers (and
I use the word in its full sense) of a very remarkable character. As the Browns lived on the
Brooklyn side of the East River, we used to call it the "Brooklyn School," though there were
residents of Philadelphia and Boston among the friends who met there. Now and then we had formal
conversazioni, and at these I soon took a prominent part, though the inquiring spirit strongly
predominated over the oracular, which is likely to monopolize such assemblies. I was in that
eagerness of early and incomplete knowledge which is more ready in expression than that of
riper years, and it is probable that I distinguished myself by fluency of verbiage. It became
customary to look to me for the most hazardous reaches of conjecture or inquiry, though certainly
Mrs. Brown was worth far more than I was. I had already solved several problems which to-day
are not clear to me, and I had always a ready answer to most mysteries. Talk I certainly could,
and Mrs. Brown, who had the most sincere friendship for me, and believed in my possibilities
if not in my attainment, delighted to put me forward.

