The moment he heard the firing and the cry from behind, the general realized that something
dreadful had happened to his regiment, and the thought that he, an exemplary officer of many
years' service who had never been to blame, might be held responsible at headquarters for negligence
or inefficiency so staggered him that, forgetting the recalcitrant cavalry colonel, his own
dignity as a general, and above all quite forgetting the danger and all regard for self-preservation,
he clutched the crupper of his saddle and, spurring his horse, galloped to the regiment under
a hail of bullets which fell around, but fortunately missed him. His one desire was to know
what was happening and at any cost correct, or remedy, the mistake if he had made one, so that
he, an exemplary officer of twenty-two years' service, who had never been censured, should
not be held to blame.

Having galloped safely through the French, he reached a field behind the copse across which
our men, regardless of orders, were running and descending the valley. That moment of moral
hesitation which decides the fate of battles had arrived. Would this disorderly crowd of soldiers
attend to the voice of their commander, or would they, disregarding him, continue their flight?
Despite his desperate shouts that used to seem so terrible to the soldiers, despite his furious
purple countenance distorted out of all likeness to his former self, and the flourishing of
his saber, the soldiers all continued to run, talking, firing into the air, and disobeying
orders. The moral hesitation which decided the fate of battles was evidently culminating in
a panic.

The general had a fit of coughing as a result of shouting and of the powder smoke and stopped
in despair. Everything seemed lost. But at that moment the French who were attacking, suddenly
and without any apparent reason, ran back and disappeared from the outskirts, and Russian sharpshooters
showed themselves in the copse. It was Timokhin's company, which alone had maintained its order
in the wood and, having lain in ambush in a ditch, now attacked the French unexpectedly. Timokhin,
armed only with a sword, had rushed at the enemy with such a desperate cry and such mad, drunken
determination that, taken by surprise, the French had thrown down their muskets and run. Dolokhov,
running beside Timokhin, killed a Frenchman at close quarters and was the first to seize the
surrendering French officer by his collar. Our fugitives returned, the battalions re-formed,
and the French who had nearly cut our left flank in half were for the moment repulsed. Our
reserve units were able to join up, and the fight was at an end. The regimental commander and
Major Ekonomov had stopped beside a bridge, letting the retreating companies pass by them,
when a soldier came up and took hold of the commander's stirrup, almost leaning against him.
The man was wearing a bluish coat of broadcloth, he had no knapsack or cap, his head was bandaged,
and over his shoulder a French munition pouch was slung. He had an officer's sword in his hand.
The soldier was pale, his blue eyes looked impudently into the commander's face, and his lips
were smiling. Though the commander was occupied in giving instructions to Major Ekonomov, he
could not help taking notice of the soldier.

"Your excellency, here are two trophies," said Dolokhov, pointing to the French sword and pouch.
"I have taken an officer prisoner. I stopped the company." Dolokhov breathed heavily from weariness
and spoke in abrupt sentences. "The whole company can bear witness. I beg you will remember
this, your excellency!"

"All right, all right," replied the commander, and turned to Major Ekonomov.

But Dolokhov did not go away; he untied the handkerchief around his head, pulled it off, and
showed the blood congealed on his hair.

"A bayonet wound. I remained at the front. Remember, your excellency!"

Tushin's battery had been forgotten and only at the very end of the action did Prince Bagration,
still hearing the cannonade in the center, send his orderly staff officer, and later Prince
Andrew also, to order the battery to retire as quickly as possible. When the supports attached
to Tushin's battery had been moved away in the middle of the action by someone's order, the
battery had continued firing and was only not captured by the French because the enemy could
not surmise that anyone could have the effrontery to continue firing from four quite undefended
guns. On the contrary, the energetic action of that battery led the French to suppose that
here--in the center--the main Russian forces were concentrated. Twice they had attempted to
attack this point, but on each occasion had been driven back by grapeshot from the four isolated
guns on the hillock.

Soon after Prince Bagration had left him, Tushin had succeeded in setting fire to Schon Grabern.

"Look at them scurrying! It's burning! Just see the smoke! Fine! Grand! Look at the smoke,
the smoke!" exclaimed the artillerymen, brightening up.

All the guns, without waiting for orders, were being fired in the direction of the conflagration.
As if urging each other on, the soldiers cried at each shot: "Fine! That's good! Look at it...
Grand!" The fire, fanned by the breeze, was rapidly spreading. The French columns that had
advanced beyond the village went back; but as though in revenge for this failure, the enemy
placed ten guns to the right of the village and began firing them at Tushin's battery.

In their childlike glee, aroused by the fire and their luck in successfully cannonading the
French, our artillerymen only noticed this battery when two balls, and then four more, fell
among our guns, one knocking over two horses and another tearing off a munition-wagon driver's
leg. Their spirits once roused were, however, not diminished, but only changed character. The
horses were replaced by others from a reserve gun carriage, the wounded were carried away,
and the four guns were turned against the ten-gun battery. Tushin's companion officer had been
killed at the beginning of the engagement and within an hour seventeen of the forty men of
the guns' crews had been disabled, but the artillerymen were still as merry and lively as ever.
Twice they noticed the French appearing below them, and then they fired grapeshot at them.

Little Tushin, moving feebly and awkwardly, kept telling his orderly to "refill my pipe for
that one!" and then, scattering sparks from it, ran forward shading his eyes with his small
hand to look at the French.

"Smack at 'em, lads!" he kept saying, seizing the guns by the wheels and working the screws
himself.

Amid the smoke, deafened by the incessant reports which always made him jump, Tushin not taking
his pipe from his mouth ran from gun to gun, now aiming, now counting the charges, now giving
orders about replacing dead or wounded horses and harnessing fresh ones, and shouting in his
feeble voice, so high pitched and irresolute. His face grew more and more animated. Only when
a man was killed or wounded did he frown and turn away from the sight, shouting angrily at
the men who, as is always the case, hesitated about lifting the injured or dead. The soldiers,
for the most part handsome fellows and, as is always the case in an artillery company, a head
and shoulders taller and twice as broad as their officer--all looked at their commander like
children in an embarrassing situation, and the expression on his face was invariably reflected
on theirs.

Owing to the terrible uproar and the necessity for concentration and activity, Tushin did not
experience the slightest unpleasant sense of fear, and the thought that he might be killed
or badly wounded never occurred to him. On the contrary, he became more and more elated. It
seemed to him that it was a very long time ago, almost a day, since he had first seen the enemy
and fired the first shot, and that the corner of the field he stood on was well-known and familiar
ground. Though he thought of everything, considered everything, and did everything the best
of officers could do in his position, he was in a state akin to feverish delirium or drunkenness.

From the deafening sounds of his own guns around him, the whistle and thud of the enemy's cannon
balls, from the flushed and perspiring faces of the crew bustling round the guns, from the
sight of the blood of men and horses, from the little puffs of smoke on the enemy's side (always
followed by a ball flying past and striking the earth, a man, a gun, a horse), from the sight
of all these things a fantastic world of his own had taken possession of his brain and at that
moment afforded him pleasure. The enemy's guns were in his fancy not guns but pipes from which
occasional puffs were blown by an invisible smoker.

"There... he's puffing again," muttered Tushin to himself, as a small cloud rose from the hill
and was borne in a streak to the left by the wind.

"Now look out for the ball... we'll throw it back."

"What do you want, your honor?" asked an artilleryman, standing close by, who heard him muttering.

"Nothing... only a shell..." he answered.

"Come along, our Matvevna!" he said to himself. "Matvevna" * was the name his fancy gave to
the farthest gun of the battery, which was large and of an old pattern. The French swarming
round their guns seemed to him like ants. In that world, the handsome drunkard Number One of
the second gun's crew was "uncle"; Tushin looked at him more often than at anyone else and
took delight in his every movement. The sound of musketry at the foot of the hill, now diminishing,
now increasing, seemed like someone's breathing. He listened intently to the ebb and flow of
these sounds.

    * Daughter of Matthew.

"Ah! Breathing again, breathing!" he muttered to himself.

He imagined himself as an enormously tall, powerful man who was throwing cannon balls at the
French with both hands.

"Now then, Matvevna, dear old lady, don't let me down!" he was saying as he moved from the
gun, when a strange, unfamiliar voice called above his head: "Captain Tushin! Captain!"

Tushin turned round in dismay. It was the staff officer who had turned him out of the booth
at Grunth. He was shouting in a gasping voice:

"Are you mad? You have twice been ordered to retreat, and you..."

"Why are they down on me?" thought Tushin, looking in alarm at his superior.

"I... don't..." he muttered, holding up two fingers to his cap. "I..."

But the staff officer did not finish what he wanted to say. A cannon ball, flying close to
him, caused him to duck and bend over his horse. He paused, and just as he was about to say
something more, another ball stopped him. He turned his horse and galloped off.

"Retire! All to retire!" he shouted from a distance.

The soldiers laughed. A moment later, an adjutant arrived with the same order.

It was Prince Andrew. The first thing he saw on riding up to the space where Tushin's guns
were stationed was an unharnessed horse with a broken leg, that lay screaming piteously beside
the harnessed horses. Blood was gushing from its leg as from a spring. Among the limbers lay
several dead men. One ball after another passed over as he approached and he felt a nervous
shudder run down his spine. But the mere thought of being afraid roused him again. "I cannot
be afraid," thought he, and dismounted slowly among the guns. He delivered the order and did
not leave the battery. He decided to have the guns removed from their positions and withdrawn
in his presence. Together with Tushin, stepping across the bodies and under a terrible fire
from the French, he attended to the removal of the guns.

"A staff officer was here a minute ago, but skipped off," said an artilleryman to Prince Andrew.
"Not like your honor!"

Prince Andrew said nothing to Tushin. They were both so busy as to seem not to notice one another.
When having limbered up the only two cannon that remained uninjured out of the four, they began
moving down the hill (one shattered gun and one unicorn were left behind), Prince Andrew rode
up to Tushin.

"Well, till we meet again..." he said, holding out his hand to Tushin.

"Good-by, my dear fellow," said Tushin. "Dear soul! Good-by, my dear fellow!" and for some
unknown reason tears suddenly filled his eyes.

CHAPTER XXI

The wind had fallen and black clouds, merging with the powder smoke, hung low over the field
of battle on the horizon. It was growing dark and the glow of two conflagrations was the more
conspicuous. The cannonade was dying down, but the rattle of musketry behind and on the right
sounded oftener and nearer. As soon as Tushin with his guns, continually driving round or coming
upon wounded men, was out of range of fire and had descended into the dip, he was met by some
of the staff, among them the staff officer and Zherkov, who had been twice sent to Tushin's
battery but had never reached it. Interrupting one another, they all gave, and transmitted,
orders as to how to proceed, reprimanding and reproaching him. Tushin gave no orders, and,
silently--fearing to speak because at every word he felt ready to weep without knowing why--rode
behind on his artillery nag. Though the orders were to abandon the wounded, many of them dragged
themselves after troops and begged for seats on the gun carriages. The jaunty infantry officer
who just before the battle had rushed out of Tushin's wattle shed was laid, with a bullet in
his stomach, on "Matvevna's" carriage. At the foot of the hill, a pale hussar cadet, supporting
one hand with the other, came up to Tushin and asked for a seat.

"Captain, for God's sake! I've hurt my arm," he said timidly. "For God's sake... I can't walk.
For God's sake!"

It was plain that this cadet had already repeatedly asked for a lift and been refused. He asked
in a hesitating, piteous voice.

"Tell them to give me a seat, for God's sake!"

"Give him a seat," said Tushin. "Lay a cloak for him to sit on, lad," he said, addressing his
favorite soldier. "And where is the wounded officer?"

"He has been set down. He died," replied someone.

"Help him up. Sit down, dear fellow, sit down! Spread out the cloak, Antonov."

The cadet was Rostov. With one hand he supported the other; he was pale and his jaw trembled,
shivering feverishly. He was placed on "Matvevna," the gun from which they had removed the
dead officer. The cloak they spread under him was wet with blood which stained his breeches
and arm.

"What, are you wounded, my lad?" said Tushin, approaching the gun on which Rostov sat.

"No, it's a sprain."

"Then what is this blood on the gun carriage?" inquired Tushin.

"It was the officer, your honor, stained it," answered the artilleryman, wiping away the blood
with his coat sleeve, as if apologizing for the state of his gun.

It was all that they could do to get the guns up the rise aided by the infantry, and having
reached the village of Gruntersdorf they halted. It had grown so dark that one could not distinguish
the uniforms ten paces off, and the firing had begun to subside. Suddenly, near by on the right,
shouting and firing were again heard. Flashes of shot gleamed in the darkness. This was the
last French attack and was met by soldiers who had sheltered in the village houses. They all
rushed out of the village again, but Tushin's guns could not move, and the artillerymen, Tushin,
and the cadet exchanged silent glances as they awaited their fate. The firing died down and
soldiers, talking eagerly, streamed out of a side street.

"Not hurt, Petrov?" asked one.

"We've given it 'em hot, mate! They won't make another push now," said another.

"You couldn't see a thing. How they shot at their own fellows! Nothing could be seen. Pitch-dark,
brother! Isn't there something to drink?"

The French had been repulsed for the last time. And again and again in the complete darkness
Tushin's guns moved forward, surrounded by the humming infantry as by a frame.

In the darkness, it seemed as though a gloomy unseen river was flowing always in one direction,
humming with whispers and talk and the sound of hoofs and wheels. Amid the general rumble,
the groans and voices of the wounded were more distinctly heard than any other sound in the
darkness of the night. The gloom that enveloped the army was filled with their groans, which
seemed to melt into one with the darkness of the night. After a while the moving mass became
agitated, someone rode past on a white horse followed by his suite, and said something in passing:
"What did he say? Where to, now? Halt, is it? Did he thank us?" came eager questions from all
sides. The whole moving mass began pressing closer together and a report spread that they were
ordered to halt: evidently those in front had halted. All remained where they were in the middle
of the muddy road.

Fires were lighted and the talk became more audible. Captain Tushin, having given orders to
his company, sent a soldier to find a dressing station or a doctor for the cadet, and sat down
by a bonfire the soldiers had kindled on the road. Rostov, too, dragged himself to the fire.
From pain, cold, and damp, a feverish shivering shook his whole body. Drowsiness was irresistibly
mastering him, but he kept awake by an excruciating pain in his arm, for which he could find
no satisfactory position. He kept closing his eyes and then again looking at the fire, which
seemed to him dazzlingly red, and at the feeble, round-shouldered figure of Tushin who was
sitting cross-legged like a Turk beside him. Tushin's large, kind, intelligent eyes were fixed
with sympathy and commiseration on Rostov, who saw that Tushin with his whole heart wished
to help him but could not.

From all sides were heard the footsteps and talk of the infantry, who were walking, driving
past, and settling down all around. The sound of voices, the tramping feet, the horses' hoofs
moving in mud, the crackling of wood fires near and afar, merged into one tremulous rumble.

It was no longer, as before, a dark, unseen river flowing through the gloom, but a dark sea
swelling and gradually subsiding after a storm. Rostov looked at and listened listlessly to
what passed before and around him. An infantryman came to the fire, squatted on his heels,
held his hands to the blaze, and turned away his face.

"You don't mind your honor?" he asked Tushin. "I've lost my company, your honor. I don't know
where... such bad luck!"

With the soldier, an infantry officer with a bandaged cheek came up to the bonfire, and addressing
Tushin asked him to have the guns moved a trifle to let a wagon go past. After he had gone,
two soldiers rushed to the campfire. They were quarreling and fighting desperately, each trying
to snatch from the other a boot they were both holding on to.

"You picked it up?... I dare say! You're very smart!" one of them shouted hoarsely.

Then a thin, pale soldier, his neck bandaged with a bloodstained leg band, came up and in angry
tones asked the artillerymen for water.

"Must one die like a dog?" said he.

Tushin told them to give the man some water. Then a cheerful soldier ran up, begging a little
fire for the infantry.

"A nice little hot torch for the infantry! Good luck to you, fellow countrymen. Thanks for
the fire--we'll return it with interest," said he, carrying away into the darkness a glowing stick.

Next came four soldiers, carrying something heavy on a cloak, and passed by the fire. One of
them stumbled.

"Who the devil has put the logs on the road?" snarled he.

"He's dead--why carry him?" said another.

"Shut up!"

And they disappeared into the darkness with their load.

"Still aching?" Tushin asked Rostov in a whisper.

"Yes."

"Your honor, you're wanted by the general. He is in the hut here," said a gunner, coming up
to Tushin.

"Coming, friend."

Tushin rose and, buttoning his greatcoat and pulling it straight, walked away from the fire.

Not far from the artillery campfire, in a hut that had been prepared for him, Prince Bagration
sat at dinner, talking with some commanding officers who had gathered at his quarters. The
little old man with the half-closed eyes was there greedily gnawing a mutton bone, and the
general who had served blamelessly for twenty-two years, flushed by a glass of vodka and the
dinner; and the staff officer with the signet ring, and Zherkov, uneasily glancing at them
all, and Prince Andrew, pale, with compressed lips and feverishly glittering eyes.

In a corner of the hut stood a standard captured from the French, and the accountant with the
naive face was feeling its texture, shaking his head in perplexity--perhaps because the banner
really interested him, perhaps because it was hard for him, hungry as he was, to look on at
a dinner where there was no place for him. In the next hut there was a French colonel who had
been taken prisoner by our dragoons. Our officers were flocking in to look at him. Prince Bagration
was thanking the individual commanders and inquiring into details of the action and our losses.
The general whose regiment had been inspected at Braunau was informing the prince that as soon
as the action began he had withdrawn from the wood, mustered the men who were woodcutting,
and, allowing the French to pass him, had made a bayonet charge with two battalions and had
broken up the French troops.

"When I saw, your excellency, that their first battalion was disorganized, I stopped in the
road and thought: 'I'll let them come on and will meet them with the fire of the whole battalion'--and
that's what I did."

The general had so wished to do this and was so sorry he had not managed to do it that it seemed
to him as if it had really happened. Perhaps it might really have been so? Could one possibly
make out amid all that confusion what did or did not happen?

"By the way, your excellency, I should inform you," he continued--remembering Dolokhov's conversation
with Kutuzov and his last interview with the gentleman-ranker--"that Private Dolokhov, who
was reduced to the ranks, took a French officer prisoner in my presence and particularly distinguished
himself."

"I saw the Pavlograd hussars attack there, your excellency," chimed in Zherkov, looking uneasily
around. He had not seen the hussars all that day, but had heard about them from an infantry
officer. "They broke up two squares, your excellency."

Several of those present smiled at Zherkov's words, expecting one of his usual jokes, but noticing
that what he was saying redounded to the glory of our arms and of the day's work, they assumed
a serious expression, though many of them knew that what he was saying was a lie devoid of
any foundation. Prince Bagration turned to the old colonel:

"Gentlemen, I thank you all; all arms have behaved heroically: infantry, cavalry, and artillery.
How was it that two guns were abandoned in the center?" he inquired, searching with his eyes
for someone. (Prince Bagration did not ask about the guns on the left flank; he knew that all
the guns there had been abandoned at the very beginning of the action.) "I think I sent you?"
he added, turning to the staff officer on duty.

"One was damaged," answered the staff officer, "and the other I can't understand. I was there
all the time giving orders and had only just left.... It is true that it was hot there," he
added, modestly.

Someone mentioned that Captain Tushin was bivouacking close to the village and had already
been sent for.

"Oh, but you were there?" said Prince Bagration, addressing Prince Andrew.

"Of course, we only just missed one another," said the staff officer, with a smile to Bolkonski.

"I had not the pleasure of seeing you," said Prince Andrew, coldly and abruptly.

All were silent. Tushin appeared at the threshold and made his way timidly from behind the
backs of the generals. As he stepped past the generals in the crowded hut, feeling embarrassed
as he always was by the sight of his superiors, he did not notice the staff of the banner and
stumbled over it. Several of those present laughed.

"How was it a gun was abandoned?" asked Bagration, frowning, not so much at the captain as
at those who were laughing, among whom Zherkov laughed loudest.

Only now, when he was confronted by the stern authorities, did his guilt and the disgrace of
having lost two guns and yet remaining alive present themselves to Tushin in all their horror.
He had been so excited that he had not thought about it until that moment. The officers' laughter
confused him still more. He stood before Bagration with his lower jaw trembling and was hardly
able to mutter: "I don't know... your excellency... I had no men... your excellency."

"You might have taken some from the covering troops."

Tushin did not say that there were no covering troops, though that was perfectly true. He was
afraid of getting some other officer into trouble, and silently fixed his eyes on Bagration
as a schoolboy who has blundered looks at an examiner.

The silence lasted some time. Prince Bagration, apparently not wishing to be severe, found
nothing to say; the others did not venture to intervene. Prince Andrew looked at Tushin from
under his brows and his fingers twitched nervously.

"Your excellency!" Prince Andrew broke the silence with his abrupt voice, "you were pleased
to send me to Captain Tushin's battery. I went there and found two thirds of the men and horses
knocked out, two guns smashed, and no supports at all."

Prince Bagration and Tushin looked with equal intentness at Bolkonski, who spoke with suppressed
agitation.

"And, if your excellency will allow me to express my opinion," he continued, "we owe today's
success chiefly to the action of that battery and the heroic endurance of Captain Tushin and
his company," and without awaiting a reply, Prince Andrew rose and left the table.

Prince Bagration looked at Tushin, evidently reluctant to show distrust in Bolkonski's emphatic
opinion yet not feeling able fully to credit it, bent his head, and told Tushin that he could
go. Prince Andrew went out with him.

"Thank you; you saved me, my dear fellow!" said Tushin.

Prince Andrew gave him a look, but said nothing and went away. He felt sad and depressed. It
was all so strange, so unlike what he had hoped.

"Who are they? Why are they here? What do they want? And when will all this end?" thought Rostov,
looking at the changing shadows before him. The pain in his arm became more and more intense.
Irresistible drowsiness overpowered him, red rings danced before his eyes, and the impression
of those voices and faces and a sense of loneliness merged with the physical pain. It was they,
these soldiers--wounded and unwounded--it was they who were crushing, weighing down, and twisting
the sinews and scorching the flesh of his sprained arm and shoulder. To rid himself of them
he closed his eyes.

