In the summer of 1852 the editor visited the World's Fair, held in New York, and on her return
found the office machinery at a stand-still. She had a contract with two printers, who, in
making it, had given no notice that they were the irresponsible agents of a union, and therefore
had no right to dispose of their own labor. They professed to be entirely satisfied with their
work and wages, and loath to leave them; but Mars' Union had cracked his whip, and disobedience
was ruin, if not death. For these poor Pennsylvania self-made slaves the Visiter had no pity,
although they plead for it. It advertised for women to take their places, stating that its
editor was in its composing-room. Other, if not all other city papers, did likewise, and there
was a rush of women to the printing offices; but ninety out of a hundred had not passed that
stage of development in which women live by wheedling men. Those who wheedled most winningly
got the places, and the result in less than two months was such a mess of scandal, as drove
them, like whipped curs, back to their kennels; but the editor of the Visiter took a good look
at each of the hundred applicants, and from them selected three, who had heads, not hat pins,
on their shoulders.

Mr. Riddle was a partner in the Visiter, and engaged a woman. The editor refused to give her
a case, when he indignantly said:

"Women have no mercy on each other. There is that poor woman who has been trying to make a
living at her trade making vests, and is now on the point of starvation. I have mercy on her,
but you have none."

The answer was:

"A woman who cannot make a living at one good trade already learned, will not mend matters
by learning another. I do not propose to turn this office into an eleemosynary establishment.
I want the women whom the work wants, not those who want the work. How long could that weak
woman maintain her respectability among all these men? Would it be any kindness to put her
in a place she is incapable of filling, and where she must inflict incalculable injury on herself,
and the general cause of woman's right to labor? Do not let your generosity run away with your
judgment."

My three typos came to be the main stay of the Journal, as well as the only typos of the Visiter,
for they were the nucleus of an efficient corps of female type-setters, who held their places
until Mr. Riddle's last illness broke down his establishment.

Soon after the opening of the Pa.C.R.R., there was a bad accident, one train running into another
in a deep cut, at night; commenting on it the Visiter suggested a red light on the rear of
every train. The suggestion was accepted immediately, and this is the origin of the red light
signal.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

SUMNER, BURLINGAME AND CASSIUS M. CLAY.

The Republican party was organized in Pittsburg, and when it became national through the Philadelphia
convention in the summer of '56, and nominated Fremont, it seemed that it might injure rather
than aid the party to have a woman take a prominent place in it. The nurseling--political abolition--was
out of its cradle, had grown to man's estate, and with bearded lip had gone forth to battle,
a man among men. There were honors and emoluments to be won in the cause of the slave, and
no doubt of its final triumph.

The Visiter had been sold to Mr. Riddle and united with his weekly, thus extending its circulation,
and cutting off the ruinous expense of its publication. The Journal was thoroughly Republican,
and would be ably conducted. No further need of a page devoted to freedom, when every page
was consecrated to the overthrow of slavery.

Before taking action, it was best to consult an old subscriber, Charles Sumner, then on the
Allegheny Mountains, recovering from the Brook's assault. I took baby and went to see him.

He was domiciled in the family of Dr. Jackson, Pennsylvania State Geologist, and seemed to
be one of it. In the sitting-room were his desk and lounge, where he wrote or lay and talked,
principally with Dr. Furness, of Philadelphia, who was with him, devoting an ever-growing store
of information to the amusement of his friend. Dr. Jackson was full of instruction, and no
man more ready than Sumner to learn. He held that all knowledge was useful in adding to one's
resources--inquired minutely about the shoeing of the horse he rode; and over a watermelon
at dessert the doctor gave a lecture on amputation, which became a large capital to one at
least of his hearers, and was of intense interest to Sumner.

The children loved him, loved to be near him, and never seemed to be in his way. Once when
a toddling wee thing crept to his side while he was absorbed in writing, took hold of his clothes,
drew herself to his feet and laid her head against his knee, he placed a weight to hold his
paper, laid his hand on her head and went on with his work. When some one would have removed
her, he looked up and said:

"Oh, let the little one alone!"

He spoke with profound admiration of Mrs. Purviance, wife of the member of Congress from Butler,
Pa. Said he was sorry never to have met her. Her influence in Washington society had been so
ennobling that the friends of freedom owed her a lasting debt of gratitude. She boarded with
her husband at the National where her wealth, independence and sparkling social qualities made
her a recognized leader, while all her influence was cast upon the right side. He thought the
success of the North in the famous struggle which elected Banks Speaker of the House, was largely
due to Mrs. Purviance.

He was oppressed with anxiety about Burlingame, who had gone to Canada to fight a duel, and
there was great rejoicing, when he suddenly appeared one evening after the sun had hidden behind
the pine trees.

He and Sumner met and greeted each other with the abandon of boys. No duel had been fought,
since Brooks, the challenger, had refused to pass through Pennsylvania to Clifton, the place
of meeting, for fear of mob violence. Even the offer of a safe conduct of troops by the governor,
failed to reassure him, and Burlingame had hurried on to set his friend's mind at rest. After
the general rejoicing, the two sat facing each other, when Sumner leaned forward, placed a
hand on each of Burlingame's shoulders, and said:

"Tell me, Anson, you did not mean to shoot that man, did you?"

Burlingame's head dropped an instant, then raising it, he said, slowly:

"I intended to take the best aim I could." Here he drew back his right arm, and took the position
of holding a gun, "at the broadest part of him, his breast; wait for the word, and then--fire!"

Sumner dropped back in his chair, let his hands fall on his knees and exclaimed, sorrowfully:

"Oh, Anson! I did not believe it."

Burlingame's eyes filled with tears, and he said:

"Charles, I saw you lying bleeding and insensible on the Senate floor, when I did not expect
ever again to hear you speak; and I intended then to kill him. I tell you, Charles, we have
got to meet those fellows with guns, some day, and the sooner we begin, the better." On being
consulted, both these champions of the right said the Visiter must not desert the cause. Sumner
added solemnly:

"The slave never had more need of it; never had more need of you."

So that editor went on with her work, feeling such an opinion as almost a divine call.

In talking with Mr. Sumner during that visit, I learned that the same doctor attended both
President Harrison and President Taylor in their last illness, and used his professional authority
to prevent their friends seeing them until the fatal termination of their illness was certain.
Also, that it was that same doctor who was within call when Brooks made his assault on Sumner,
took charge of the case, and made an official statement that the injury was very slight, gave
it a superficial dressing, and sought to exclude every one from the room of his patient. Said
Sumner:

"I shuddered when I recovered consciousness, and found this man beside me."

He dismissed him promptly, and did not hesitate to say that he believed he would not have recovered
under his treatment. When the South seceded, this useful man left Washington and joined the
Confederacy.

The campaign of 1856 was very spirited. A large mass meeting was held in Pittsburg, and Cassius
M. Clay was the orator of the occasion. He was at the heighth of a great national popularity,
and seemed as if any honor might be open to him. He dined that evening with Robert Palmer,
of Allegheny, and a small party of friends. The house was brilliantly lighted, and at the table,
while Clay was talking, and every one in gala day spirits, the light suddenly went out, and
what a strange sensation fell on one guest--a feeling of coming evil.

There was no re-lighting. The gas had failed, prophetic of the going out of that brilliant
career, and its slow ending in the glimmer of a single candle.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

FINANCE AND DESERTION.

The Pittsburg Saturday Visiter began life with two subscribers, and in the second year reached
six thousand, but was always a heavy drain on my income. My domestic duties made it impossible
I could give any attention to the business department, and I was glad, at the close of the
first year, to transfer a half interest to Mr. Riddle, who became equal partner and co-editor.
At the end of the second year he proposed to buy my interest, unite the Visiter with his weekly,
and pay me a salary for editing a page.

Had the proposal been made directly to me, I should have accepted at once, but it was made
through my brother-in-law, William Swisshelm, who had been clerk and business manager of the
Visiter for eighteen months. He advised me not to accept; said the paper was netting fifteen
hundred a year, and that if I would retain my interest he would purchase Mr. Riddle's, get
type, have all the work done in a separate establishment, and make it a decided success.

I was afraid of this arrangement, but was anxious to keep up the paper as a separate publication,
and agreed on condition that he would assume the entire financial responsibility, keep my interest
at Mr. Riddle's valuation, and leave me no further risk than my services. If there were profits,
we would share them; if none, I got no pay, as usual, but sunk no money. To make the changes
he desired, I loaned him money until I had most of my small estate invested, and supposed the
paper was prospering until suddenly informed that the sheriff was about to sell it. We transferred
it to Mr. Riddle, with my services two years in advance, to pay the debts, and I wrote for
the New York Tribune, at five dollars a column, to meet my personal expenses, as my income
from my property was gone.

I forget at what time the Visiter was united to the weekly Journal; but very soon after the
presidential campaign of '52, I learned that my late partner had endorsed several notes which
were not likely to be paid by the persons who gave them, and that one of these was already
entered as a lien against his interest in the family estate. We had had no settlement, so I
went to my lawyer, William M. Shinn, who said that the entire interest of my debtor in his
father's will was worth less than my claim since his death, without heirs, before his mother
transferred his share to the other heirs. He advised me, if possible, to get a deed of that
share as the only security for which I could hope. I directed him to prepare it, went immediately
to the office, saw my late partner, and told him that if he did not execute that deed, I would
sue him for a settlement before I left the city. He did, and I took it home early in the afternoon.
In March '57, I resigned my place on the Family Journal and Visiter, feeling that my public
work was over, and that no life save one of absolute solitude was possible for me.

I had lived over twenty years without the legal right to be alone one hour--to have the exclusive
use of one foot of space--to receive an unopened letter, or to preserve a line of manuscript

     "From sharp and sly inspection."

In the latter half of the nineteenth century, a Pennsylvania court decided that a husband had
a right to open and read any communication addressed to his wife. Living as I did, under this
law I had burned the private journal kept in girlhood, and the letters received from my brother,
mother, sister and other friends, to preserve their contents from the comments of the farm
laborers and female help, who, by common custom, must eat at our table and take part in our
conversation. At the office I had received, read and burned, without answer, letters from some
of the most prominent men and women of the era; letters which would be valuable history to-day;
have, therefore, no private papers, and write this history, except a few public dates, entirely
from memory.

Into the mists some rays of light penetrated, and by them I saw that the marriage contract
by which I was bound, was that one which I had made and which secured my liberty of conscience
and voice in choosing a home.

The fraud by which church, and state substituted that bond made for Saxon swine-herds, who
ate boar's heads, lived in unchinked houses and wore brass collars, in the days when Alfred
the Great was king, was such as would vitiate any other contract, and must annul even that
of marriage; but, granting that it was binding, it must bind both parties, and had been broken
by the party of the other part through failure to comply with its requirements.

Our marriage had been a mistake, productive of mutual injury; but for one, it was not too late
to repair the wrong. He, a man in the prime of life, with unspotted reputation, living without
labor, on the income of a patrimonial estate, to which he had made large additions, could easily
find a help-mate for him; one who could pad matrimonial fetters with those devices by which
husbands are managed. My desertion would leave him free to make a new choice, and I could more
easily earn a living alone.

The much-coveted and long-delayed birth of a living child appeared to have barred my appeal
to this last resort, but the mother's right to the custody of her infant is one I would defend
to the taking of life.

My husband would consent to no separation, and we had a struggle for my separate, personal
property or its equivalent; a struggle in which Wm. M. Shinn was my lawyer, and Judge Mellon
his, and in which I secured my piano by replevin, Dr. John Scott being my bondsman, and learned
that I might not call a porter into the house to remove my trunk. I therefore got my clothing,
some books, china and bedding by stealth, and the assistance of half a dozen families of neighbors.

A test suit as to my right to support was decided in 1859, and in it a judge in my native city,
charged the jury that: "If a wife have no dress and her husband refuse to provide one, she
may purchase one--a plain dress--not silk, or lace, or any extravagance; if she have no shoes,
she may get a pair; if she be sick and he refuse to employ a physician, she may send for one,
and get the medicine he may prescribe; and for these necessaries the husband is liable, but
here his liability ceases."

The suit was about goods I had purchased by my lawyer's advice--two black silk dresses, a thirty
dollar shawl, a dozen pairs black kid gloves, stockings, flannel, linen, half dozen yards white
Brussels lace, any one of which would have outlawed the bill, even if I had gone in an Eden
costume to make the purchase; but being clothed when I made my appearance at the counter, the
merchant could not plead that I "had no dress," and lost his case.

In a subsequent suit carried up to the Supreme Court and decided in '68, it was proved that
my husband had forbidden our merchant to credit me on his account, and the merchant's books
presented in court showed that for twelve years he had kept two separate accounts, one against
my husband and one against me. On his were charged clothing for himself, mother, brothers and
employes, common groceries, etc.; while on mine were entered all my clothing, all high-priced
tea, white sugar, etc., all tableware, fine cutlery, table linen, bedding, curtains and towels;
on his were, credits for farm products; on mine, only cash; and he was credited with butter
and eggs on the same day that I was charged with bed-ticking and towels. My personal expenses
from Nov. 18, '36, the date of our marriage, until Nov. 18, '56, twenty years, averaged less
than fifty dollars a year. All my husband's labor for all his life, and mine for twenty years,
with a large part of my separate property, had gone to swell his mother's estate, on the proceeds
of which she kept her carriage and servants until she died, aged ninety-four, while I earned
a living for myself and his only child.

I left Pittsburg with my baby about the 20th of May, '57, and went by boat to St. Paul. Before
leaving, I went to settle with Mr. Riddle and say goodbye, and found him much troubled. He said:

"Why is it I have known nothing of all this? I did not dream there was anything wrong in your
domestic relations, and may have been selfish and inconsiderate."

My husband, mine no more, came upon the boat while she lay at the wharf, held baby on his knee
and wept over her; when the last bell rang, he bade me good-bye; carried her to the gangway,
held her to the last moment, then placed her in my arms, sprang ashore and hurried up the wharf.
He would, I think, have carried her off, but that he knew she would break his heart crying
for mother before I could get to her.

He had once taken her away in a fit of anger and walked the floor with her most of the night,
seriously alarmed for her life, and could not venture on that experiment again. He loved her
most tenderly, and his love was as tenderly returned. Since, as a duty to her, I was careful
to teach her to "honor thy father" on earth as well as in heaven.

Had he and I gone into the pine woods, as he proposed, upon marriage; had we been married under
an equitable law or had he emigrated to Minnesota, as he proposed, before I thought of going,
there would have been no separation; but after fifteen years in his mother's house I must run
away or die, and leave my child to a step-mother. So I ran away. He thought I would return;
enlarged and improved the house, wrote and waited for us; could make no deed without my signature;
I would sign none, and after three years he got a divorce for desertion. In '70 he married
again, and I having, voluntarily, assumed the legal guilt of breaking my marriage contract,
do cheerfully accept the legal penalty--a life of celibacy--bringing no charge against him
who was my husband, save that he was not much better than the average man. Knew his rights,
and knowing sought to maintain them against me; while, in some respects, he was to me incalculably
more than just. Years after I left him, he said to our neighbor, Miss Hawkins, when speaking of me:

"I believe she is the best woman God ever made, and we would have had no trouble but for her
friends."

My sister had removed with her husband to St. Cloud, Minnesota, and through him I had secured
forty acres of land on the shore of one of a nest of lovely lakes, lying on the east side of
the Mississippi, twelve miles from St. Cloud. On this little farm I would build a cabin of
tamarac logs, with the bark on and the ends sticking out at the corners criss-cross. My cabin
would have one room and a loft, each with a floor of broad rough boards well jointed, and a
ladder to go from one to the other. It would have an open fire-place, a rough flag hearth,
and a rustic porch, draped with hop vines and wild roses. I would have a boat, catch fish and
raise poultry. No sound of strife should ever come into my cabin but those of waves, winds,
birds and insects. Ah, what a paradise it would be!

I had not yet learned that every human soul is a Shunamite, "a company of two armies," and
wherever there is one, there is strife.

     To live is to contend,
     And life is finished when contentions end.

At St. Paul I took a stage, and night came on when we were still twenty miles from St. Cloud.
The wolves stood and looked at the stage, and I knew they were between me and my hermitage;
but they were only prairie wolves, and all day my cabin had been growing more and more beautiful.
The lakes, the flowers, the level prairies and distant knolls, but most of all the oak openings
were enchanting, and in one of these my cabin would stand.

The passengers talked politics and I talked too, and one man said to me:

"Did you say you were going to St. Cloud?

"Yes."

"Well, I tell you, madam, them sentiments of yours won't go down there. Gen. Lowrie don't allow
no abolition in these parts and he lives in St. Cloud."

I had had many surprises, but few to equal this; had heard of Gen. Lowrie as a man of immense
wealth and influence, but no one had hinted at this view of his character. I had thought of
him as the friend of my friends; but as the other passengers were confirming this account and
I watching the wolves, there flashed across my mind the thought: "This is a broad country;
but if this be true, there is not room in it for Gen. Lowrie and me."

CHAPTER XXXV.

MY HERMITAGE.

It was midnight before we reached East St. Cloud, and the ferry-boat had stopped running, so
that it was a bright morning the 7th of June when I found myself in half a dozen pairs of loving
arms. In a few days we made an excursion to the site of my cabin. It was more beautiful than
I had thought. On the opposite side of the lake lived Captain Briggs, with a head full of sea-stories,
and a New England wife. My hermitage would be greatly improved by such neighbors only one mile
distant, and as the captain had lately killed two large bears between his house and the site
of mine, there would soon be no more bears. But I must have the loft of my cabin large enough
for several beds, as the children insisted on spending their summers with me. Brother Harry
bespoke a second room, for he would want a place to stay all night when out hunting with his
friends, and my hermitage began to grow into a hotel.

I had commenced arrangements with workmen, when Harry said to me:

"Sis, Elizabeth and I have talked this matter over, and if you persist, we will take out a
writ of lunacy. There is not a man in this territory who would not say on oath, that you are
insane to think of going where the bears would eat you if the Indians did not kill you. The
troops are ordered away from the forts; you'll get frontier life enough with us, for we are
going to have music with the Indians."

Next day the troops from Fort Ripley marched past, on their way to Kansas, to put down the
Free State party. Bleeding Kansas was called on for more blood, and United States soldiers
were to sacrifice the friends of freedom on the altar of slavery. The people of Minnesota were
left without protection from savages, that the people of Kansas might be given over to the
tender mercies of men no less barbarous than the Sioux.

I had run away from the irrepressible conflict, feeling that my work was done; had fled to
the great Northwest--forever consecrated to freedom by solemn act and deed of the nation--thinking
I should see no more of our national curse, when here it confronted me as it had never done before.

My cabin perished in a night, like Jonah's gourd--perished that liberty might be crushed in
Kansas; for without a garrison at Fort Ripley, my project was utterly insane.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE MINNESOTA DICTATOR.

Every day, from my arrival in St. Cloud, evidence had been accumulating of the truth of that
stage-whisper about Gen. Lowrie, who lived in a semi-barbaric splendor, in an imposing house
on the bank of the Mississippi, where he kept slaves, bringing them from and returning them
to his Tennessee estate, at his convenience, and no man saying him nay.

He owned immense tracts of land; had and disposed of all the government contracts he pleased;
traveled over Europe with his salaried physician; said to this man "go," and he went, to that
"come," and he came, and to a third "do this," and it was done. But of all his commands "go"
was most potent; for, as president of a claim club, his orders to pre-emptors were enforced
by Judge Lynch. He never condescended to go to Congress, but sent an agent; furnished all the
Democratic votes that could possibly be wanted in any emergency, and nobody wondered when a
good list came from a precinct in which no one lived.

Republicans on their arrival in his dominion, were converted to the Democratic faith, fast
as sinners to Christianity in a Maffitt meeting, and those on whom the spirit fell not, kept
very quiet. People had gone there to make homes, not to fight the Southern tiger, and any attempt
against such overwhelming odds seemed madness, for Lowrie's dominion was largely legitimate.
He was one of those who are born to command--of splendid physique and dignified bearing, superior
intellect and mesmeric fascination. His natural advantages had been increased by a liberal
education; he had been brought up among slaves, lived among Indians as agent and interpreter,
felt his own superiority, and asserted it with the full force of honest conviction.

On all hands he was spoken of as Dictator, and there was both love and respect mingled with
the fear by which he governed. His father was a Presbyterian minister, who taught that slavery
was divine, and both were generous and lenient masters. He was the embodiment of the slave
power. All its brute force, pious pretenses, plausibility, chivalry, all the good and bad of
the Southern character; all the weapons of the army of despotism were concentrated in this
man, the friend of my friends, the man who stood ready to set me on the pinnacle of social
distinction by his recognition. Across the body of the prostrate slave lay the road to wealth,
and many good men had shut their eyes and stepped over.

The territorial government under Buchanan was a mere tool of slavery. Every federal officer
was a Southerner, or a Northern man with Southern principles. Government gold flowed freely
in that channel, and to the eagles Gen. Lowrie had but to say, as to his other servants, "come,"
and they flew into his exchequer.

So thoroughly was Minnesota under the feet of slavery, that in September, '60--after we thought
the State redeemed--the house of William D. Babbitt, in Minneapolis, was surrounded from midnight
until morning by a howling mob, stoning it, firing guns and pistols, attempting to force doors
and windows, and only prevented gaining entrance by the solidity of the building and the bravery
of its defense. It was thus besieged because its owner and occupant had dared interfere to
execute the common law in favor of freedom.

