We have considered as elements of national greatness the race itself, the favorable position,
and the material to work with. I need not enlarge upon the might and the possessions of England,
nor the general beneficence of her occupation wherever she has established fort, factory, or
colony. With her flag go much injustice, domineering, and cruelty; but, on the whole, the best
elements of civilization.

The intellectual domination of England has been as striking as the physical. It is stamped
upon all her colonies; it has by no means disappeared in the United States. For more than fifty
years after our independence we imported our intellectual food--with the exception of politics,
and theology in certain forms--and largely our ethical guidance from England. We read English
books, or imitations of the English way of looking at things; we even accepted the English
caricatures of our own life as genuine--notably in the case of the so-called typical Yankee.
It is only recently that our writers have begun to describe our own life as it is, and that
readers begin to feel that our society may be as interesting in print as that English society
which they have been all their lives accustomed to read about. The reading-books of children
in schools were filled with English essays, stories, English views of life; it was the English
heroines over whose woes the girls wept; it was of the English heroes that the boys declaimed.
I do not know how much the imagination has to do in shaping the national character, but for
half a century English writers, by poems and novels, controlled the imagination of this country.
The principal reading then, as now--and perhaps more then than now--was fiction, and nearly
all of this England supplied. We took in with it, it will be noticed, not only the romance
and gilding of chivalry and legitimacy, such as Scott gives us, but constant instruction in
a society of ranks and degrees, orders of nobility and commonalty, a fixed social status, a
well-ordered, and often attractive, permanent social inequality, a state of life and relations
based upon lingering feudal conditions and prejudices. The background of all English fiction
is monarchical; however liberal it may be, it must be projected upon the existing order of
things. We have not been examining these foreign social conditions with that simple curiosity
which leads us to look into the social life of Russia as it is depicted in Russian novels;
we have, on the contrary, absorbed them generation after generation as part of our intellectual
development, so that the novels and the other English literature must have had a vast influence
in molding our mental character, in shaping our thinking upon the political as well as the
social constitution of states.

For a long time the one American counteraction, almost the only, to this English influence
was the newspaper, which has always kept alive and diffused a distinctly American spirit--not
always lovely or modest, but national. The establishment of periodicals which could afford
to pay for fiction written about our society and from the American point of view has had a
great effect on our literary emancipation. The wise men whom we elect to make our laws--and
who represent us intellectually and morally a good deal better than we sometimes like to admit--have
always gone upon the theory, with regard to the reading for the American people, that the chief
requisite of it was cheapness, with no regard to its character so far as it is a shaper of
notions about government and social life. What educating influence English fiction was having
upon American life they have not inquired, so long as it was furnished cheap, and its authors
were cheated out of any copyright on it.

At the North, thanks to a free press and periodicals, to a dozen reform agitations, and to
the intellectual stir generally accompanying industries and commerce, we have been developing
an immense intellectual activity, a portion of which has found expression in fiction, in poetry,
in essays, that are instinct with American life and aspiration; so that now for over thirty
years, in the field of literature, we have had a vigorous offset to the English intellectual
domination of which I spoke. How far this has in the past molded American thought and sentiment,
in what degree it should be held responsible for the infidelity in regard to our "American
experiment," I will not undertake to say. The South furnishes a very interesting illustration
in this connection. When the civil war broke down the barriers of intellectual non-intercourse
behind which the South had ensconced itself, it was found to be in a colonial condition. Its
libraries were English libraries, mostly composed of old English literature. Its literary growth
stopped with the reign of George III. Its latest news was the Spectator and the Tatler. The
social order it covered was that of monarchical England, undisturbed by the fiery philippics
of Byron or Shelley or the radicalism of a manufacturing age. Its chivalry was an imitation
of the antiquated age of lords and ladies, and tournaments, and buckram courtesies, when men
were as touchy to fight, at the lift of an eyelid or the drop of the glove, as Brian de Bois-Guilbert,
and as ready for a drinking-bout as Christopher North. The intellectual stir of the North,
with its disorganizing radicalism, was rigorously excluded, and with it all the new life pouring
out of its presses. The South was tied to a republic, but it was not republican, either in
its politics or its social order. It was, in its mental constitution, in its prejudices, in
its tastes, exactly what you would expect a people to be, excluded from the circulation of
free ideas by its system of slavery, and fed on the English literature of a century ago. I
dare say that a majority of its reading public, at any time, would have preferred a monarchical
system and a hierarchy of rank.

To return to England. I have said that English domination usually carries the best elements
of civilization. Yet it must be owned that England has pursued her magnificent career in a
policy often insolent and brutal, and generally selfish. Scarcely any considerations have stood
in the way of her trade and profit. I will not dwell upon her opium culture in India, which
is a proximate cause of famine in district after district, nor upon her forcing the drug upon
China--a policy disgraceful to a Christian queen and people. We have only just got rid of slavery,
sustained so long by Biblical and official sanction, and may not yet set up as critics. But
I will refer to a case with which all are familiar--England's treatment of her American colonies.
In 1760 and onward, when Franklin, the agent of the colonies of Pennsylvania and Massachusetts,
was cooling his heels in lords' waiting-rooms in London, America was treated exactly as Ireland
was--that is, discriminated against in every way; not allowed to manufacture; not permitted
to trade with other nations, except under the most vexatious restrictions; and the effort was
continued to make her a mere agricultural producer and a dependent. All that England cared
for us was that we should be a market for her manufactures. This same selfishness has been
the keynote of her policy down to the present day, except as the force of circumstances has
modified it. Steadily pursued, it has contributed largely to make England the monetary and
industrial master of the world.

With this outline I pass to her present condition and outlook. The dictatorial and selfish
policy has been forced to give way somewhat in regard to the colonies. The spirit of the age
and the strength of the colonies forbid its exercise; they cannot be held by the old policy.
Australia boldly adopts a protective tariff, and her parliament is only nominally controlled
by the crown. Canada exacts duties on English goods, and England cannot help herself. Even
with these concessions, can England keep her great colonies? They are still loyal in word.
They still affect English manners and English speech, and draw their intellectual supplies
from England. On the prospect of a war with Russia they nearly all offered volunteers. But
everybody knows that allegiance is on the condition of local autonomy. If united Canada asks
to go, she will go. So with Australia. It may be safely predicted that England will never fight
again to hold the sovereignty of her new-world possessions against their present occupants.
And, in the judgment of many good observers, a dissolution of the empire, so far as the Western
colonies are concerned, is inevitable, unless Great Britain, adopting the plan urged by Franklin,
becomes an imperial federation, with parliaments distinct and independent, the crown the only
bond of union--the crown, and not the English parliament, being the titular and actual sovereign.
Sovereign power over America in the parliament Franklin never would admit. His idea was that
all the inhabitants of the empire must be citizens, not some of them subjects ruled by the
home citizens. The two great political parties of England are really formed on lines constructed
after the passage of the Reform Bill of 1832. The Tories had been long in power. They had made
many changes and popular concessions, but they resisted parliamentary reform. The great Whig
lords, who had tried to govern England without the people and in opposition to the crown in
the days of George III., had learned to seek popular support. The Reform Bill, which was ultimately
forced through by popular pressure and threat of civil war, abolished the rotten boroughs,
gave representation to the large manufacturing towns and increased representation to the counties,
and the suffrage to all men who had 'paid ten pounds a year rent in boroughs, or in the counties
owned land worth ten pounds a year or paid fifty pounds rent. The immediate result of this
was to put power into the hands of the middle classes and to give the lower classes high hopes,
so that, in 1839, the Chartist movement began, one demand of which was universal suffrage.
The old party names of Whig and Tory had been dropped and the two parties had assumed their
present appellations of Conservatives and Liberals. Both parties had, however, learned that
there was no rest for any ruling party except a popular basis, and the Conservative party had
the good sense to strengthen itself in 1867 by carrying through Mr. Disraeli's bill, which
gave the franchise in boroughs to all householders paying rates, and in counties to all occupiers
of property rated at fifteen pounds a year. This broadening of the suffrage places the power
irrevocably in the hands of the people, against whose judgment neither crown nor ministry can
venture on any important step.

In general terms it may be said that of these two great parties the Conservative wishes to
preserve existing institutions, and latterly has leaned to the prerogatives of the crown, and
the Liberal is inclined to progress and reform, and to respond to changes demanded by the people.
Both parties, however, like parties elsewhere, propose and oppose measures and movements, and
accept or reject policies, simply to get office or keep office. The Conservative party of late
years, principally because it has the simple task of holding back, has been better able to
define its lines and preserve a compact organization. The Liberals, with a multitude of reformatory
projects, have, of course, a less homogeneous organization, and for some years have been without
well-defined issues. The Conservative aristocracy seemed to form a secure alliance with the
farmers and the great agricultural interests, and at the same time to have a strong hold upon
the lower classes. In what his opponents called his "policy of adventure," Lord Beaconsfield
had the support of the lower populace. The Liberal party is an incongruous host. On one wing
are the Whig lords and great landowners, who cannot be expected to take kindly to a land reform
that would reform them out of territorial power; and on the other wing are the Radicals, who
would abolish the present land system and the crown itself, and institute the rule of a democracy.
Between these two is the great body of the middle class, a considerable portion of the educated
and university trained, the majorities of the manufacturing towns, and perhaps, we may say,
generally the Nonconformists. There are some curious analogies in these two parties to our
own parties before the war. It is, perhaps, not fanciful to suppose that the Conservative lords
resemble our own aristocratic leaders of democracy, who contrived to keep near the people and
had affiliations that secured them the vote of the least educated portion of the voters; while
the great Liberal lords are not unlike our old aristocratic Whigs, of the cotton order, who
have either little sympathy with the people or little faculty of showing it. It is a curious
fact that during our civil war respect for authority gained us as much sympathy from the Conservatives,
as love for freedom (hampered by the greed of trade and rivalry in manufactures) gained us
from the Liberals.

To return to the question of empire. The bulk of the Conservative party would hold the colonies
if possible, and pursue an imperial policy; while certainly a large portion of the Liberals--not
all, by any means--would let the colonies go, and, with the Manchester school, hope to hold
England's place by free-trade and active competition. The imperial policy may be said to have
two branches, in regard to which parties will not sharply divide: one is the relations to be
held towards the Western colonies, and the other in the policy to be pursued in the East in
reference to India and to the development of the Indian empire, and also the policy of aggression
and subjection in South Africa.

An imperial policy does not necessarily imply such vagaries as the forcible detention of the
forcibly annexed Boer republic. But everybody sees that the time is near when England must
say definitely as to the imperial policy generally whether it will pursue it or abandon it.
And it may be remarked in passing that the Gladstone government, thus far, though pursuing
this policy more moderately than the Beaconsfield government, shows no intention of abandoning
it. Almost everybody admits that if it is abandoned England must sink to the position of a
third-rate power like Holland. For what does abandonment mean? It means to have no weight,
except that of moral example, in Continental affairs: to relinquish her advantages in the Mediterranean;
to let Turkey be absorbed by Russia; to become so weak in India as to risk rebellion of all
the provinces, and probable attack from Russia and her Central Asian allies. But this is not
all. Lost control in Asia is lost trade; this is evident in every foot of control Russia has
gained in the Caucasus, about the Caspian Sea, in Persia. There Russian manufactures supplant
the English; and so in another quarter: in order to enjoy the vast opening trade of Africa,
England must be on hand with an exhibition of power. We might show by a hundred examples that
the imperial idea in England does not rest on pride alone, on national glory altogether, though
that is a large element in it, but on trade instincts. "Trade follows the flag" is a well-known
motto; and that means that the lines of commerce follow the limits of empire.

Take India as an illustration. Why should England care to keep India? In the last forty years
the total revenue from India, set down up to 1880 as L 1,517,000,000, has been L 53,000,000
less than the expenditure. It varies with the years, and occasionally the balance is favorable,
as in 1879, when the expenditure was L 63,400,000 and the revenue was L 64,400,000. But to
offset this average deficit the very profitable trade of India, which is mostly in British
hands, swells the national wealth; and this trade would not be so largely in British hands
if the flag were away.

But this is not the only value of India. Grasp on India is part of the vast Oriental network
of English trade and commerce, the carrying trade, the supply of cotton and iron goods. This
largely depends upon English prestige in the Orient, and to lose India is to lose the grip.
On practically the same string with India are Egypt, Central Africa, and the Euphrates valley.
A vast empire of trade opens out. To sink the imperial policy is to shut this vision. With
Russia pressing on one side and America competing on the other, England cannot afford to lose
her military lines, her control of the sea, her prestige.

Again, India offers to the young and the adventurous a career, military, civil, or commercial.
This is of great weight--great social weight. One of the chief wants of England today is careers
and professions for her sons. The population of the United Kingdom in 1876 was estimated at
near thirty-four millions; in the last few decades the decennial increase had been considerably
over two millions; at that rate the population in 1900 would be near forty millions. How can
they live in their narrow limits? They must emigrate, go for good, or seek employment and means
of wealth in some such vast field as India. Take away India now, and you cut off the career
of hundreds of thousands of young Englishmen, and the hope of tens of thousands of households.

There is another aspect of the case which it would be unfair to ignore. Opportunity is the
measure of a nation's responsibility. I have no doubt that Mr. Thomas Hughes spoke for a very
respectable portion of Christian England, in 1861, when he wrote Mr. James Russell Lowell,
in a prefatory note to "Tom Brown at Oxford," these words:

   "The great tasks of the world are only laid on the strongest
   shoulders. We, who have India to guide and train, who have for our
   task the educating of her wretched people into free men, who feel
   that the work cannot be shifted from ourselves, and must be done as
   God would have it done, at the peril of England's own life, can and
   do feel for you."

It is safe, we think, to say that if the British Empire is to be dissolved, disintegration
cannot be permitted to begin at home. Ireland has always been a thorn in the side of England.
And the policy towards it could not have been much worse, either to impress it with a respect
for authority or to win it by conciliation; it has been a strange mixture of untimely concession
and untimely cruelty. The problem, in fact, has physical and race elements that make it almost
insolvable. A water-logged country, of which nothing can surely be predicted but the uncertainty
of its harvests, inhabited by a people of most peculiar mental constitution, alien in race,
temperament, and religion, having scarcely one point of sympathy with the English. But geography
settles some things in this world, and the act of union that bound Ireland to the United Kingdom
in 1800 was as much a necessity of the situation as the act of union that obliterated the boundary
line between Scotland and England in 1707. The Irish parliament was confessedly a failure,
and it is scarcely within the possibilities that the experiment will be tried again. Irish
independence, so far as English consent is concerned, and until England's power is utterly
broken, is a dream. Great changes will doubtless be made in the tenure and transfer of land,
and these changes will react upon England to the ultimate abasement of the landed aristocracy;
but this equalization of conditions would work no consent to separation. The undeniable growth
of the democratic spirit in England can no more be relied on to bring it about, when we remember
what renewed executive vigor and cohesion existed with the Commonwealth and the fiery foreign
policy of the first republic of France. For three years past we have seen the British Empire
in peril on all sides, with the addition of depression and incipient rebellion at home, but
her horizon is not as dark as it was in 1780, when, with a failing cause in America, England
had the whole of Europe against her.

In any estimate of the prospects of England we must take into account the recent marked changes
in the social condition. Mr. Escott has an instructive chapter on this in his excellent book
on England. He notices that the English character is losing its insularity, is more accessible
to foreign influences, and is adopting foreign, especially French, modes of living. Country
life is losing its charm; domestic life is changed; people live in "flats" more and more, and
the idea of home is not what it was; marriage is not exactly what it was; the increased free
and independent relations of the sexes are somewhat demoralizing; women are a little intoxicated
with their newly-acquired freedom; social scandals are more frequent. It should be said, however,
that perhaps the present perils are due not to the new system, but to the fact that it is new;
when the novelty is worn off the peril may cease.

Mr. Escott notices primogeniture as one of the stable and, curious enough, one of the democratic
institutions of society. It is owing to primogeniture that while there is a nobility in England
there is no noblesse. If titles and lands went to all the children there would be the multitudinous
noblesse of the Continent. Now, by primogeniture, enough is retained for a small nobility,
but all the younger sons must go into the world and make a living. The three respectable professions
no longer offer sufficient inducement, and they crowd more and more into trade. Thus the middle
class is constantly recruited from the upper. Besides, the upper is all the time recruited
from the wealthy middle; the union of aristocracy and plutocracy may be said to be complete.
But merit makes its way continually from even the lower ranks upward, in the professions, in
the army, the law, the church, in letters, in trade, and, what Mr. Escott does not mention,
in the reformed civil service, newly opened to the humblest lad in the land. Thus there is
constant movement up and down in social England, approaching, except in the traditional nobility,
the freedom of movement in our own country. This is all wholesome and sound. Even the nobility
itself, driven by ennui, or a loss of former political control, or by the necessity of more
money to support inherited estates, goes into business, into journalism, writes books, enters
the professions.

What are the symptoms of decay in England? Unless the accumulation of wealth is a symptom of
decay, I do not see many. I look at the people themselves. It seems to me that never in their
history were they more full of vigor. See what travelers, explorers, adventurers they are.
See what sportsmen, in every part of the globe, how much they endure, and how hale and jolly
they are--women as well as men. The race, certainly, has not decayed. And look at letters.
It may be said that this is not the age of pure literature--and I'm sure I hope the English
patent for producing machine novels will not be infringed--but the English language was never
before written so vigorously, so clearly, and to such purpose. And this is shown even in the
excessive refinement and elaboration of trifles, the minutia of reflection, the keenness of
analysis, the unrelenting pursuit of every social topic into subtleties untouched by the older
essayists. And there is still more vigor, without affectation, in scientific investigation,
in the daily conquests made in the realm of social economy, the best methods of living and
getting the most out of life. Art also keeps pace with luxury, and shows abundant life and
promise for the future.

I believe, from these and other considerations, that this vigorous people will find a way out
of its present embarrassment, and a way out without retreating. For myself, I like to see the
English sort of civilization spreading over the world rather than the Russian or the French.
I hope England will hang on to the East, and not give it over to the havoc of squabbling tribes,
with a dozen religions and five hundred dialects, or to the military despotism of an empire
whose morality is only matched by the superstition of its religion.

The relations of England and the United States are naturally of the first interest to us. Our
love and our hatred have always been that of true relatives. For three-quarters of a century
our 'amour propre' was constantly kept raw by the most supercilious patronage. During the past
decade, when the quality of England's regard has become more and more a matter of indifference
to us, we have been the subject of a more intelligent curiosity, of increased respect, accompanied
with a sincere desire to understand us. In the diplomatic scale Washington still ranks below
the Sublime Porte, but this anomaly is due to tradition, and does not represent England's real
estimate of the status of the republic. There is, and must be, a good deal of selfishness mingled
in our friendship--patriotism itself being a form of selfishness--but our ideas of civilization
so nearly coincide, and we have so many common aspirations for humanity that we must draw nearer
together, notwithstanding old grudges and present differences in social structure. Our intercourse
is likely to be closer, our business relations will become more inseparable. I can conceive
of nothing so lamentable for the progress of the world as a quarrel between these two English-speaking
peoples.

But, in one respect, we are likely to diverge. I refer to literature; in that, assimilation
is neither probable nor desirable. We were brought up on the literature of England; our first
efforts were imitations of it; we were criticised--we criticised ourselves on its standards.
We compared every new aspirant in letters to some English writer. We were patted on the back
if we resembled the English models; we were stared at or sneered at if we did not. The criticism
that we received for our best was evidently founded on such indifference or toleration that
it was galling. At first we were surprised; then we were grieved; then we were indignant. We
have long ago ceased to be either surprised, grieved, or indignant at anything the English
critics say of us. We have recovered our balance. We know that since Gulliver there has been
no piece of original humor produced in England equal to "Knickerbocker's New York"; that not
in this century has any English writer equaled the wit and satire of the "Biglow Papers." We
used to be irritated at what we called the snobbishness of English critics of a certain school;
we are so no longer, for we see that its criticism is only the result of ignorance--simply
of inability to understand.

