So great was the longing of the Princess to be clever, that she at once promised Riquet to
marry him in a year's time, and no sooner had she made the promise than a great change took
place in her, and she found she could say all sorts of pleasant things, on all sorts of subjects,
in quite an easy manner.

She at once began a conversation with Riquet, making such brilliant remarks, that he could
almost think he had given her all his cleverness and had kept none for himself.

When the Princess returned to the Palace, everybody was astonished at the sudden and extraordinary
change, for, instead of saying stupid things, or just nothing at all, she was now full of beautiful
ideas which she expressed most charmingly.

The report of this transformation was soon spread abroad, and all the young Princes of the
neighbouring kingdoms asked for her hand in marriage, but not one did she find altogether suitable.

However, at last one arrived, who was so powerful, rich, clever and handsome, that she could
not help approving of him, and her father, noticing this, told her she was quite free to choose
what husband she wished.

The Princess thanked him, and asked for time to consider the matter.

Then, to think it over, she went by chance, into the wood where she had met Tufty Riquet.

While she was walking, deep in thought, she noticed a loud noise beneath her feet, as of many
persons hastening to and fro; then, listening attentively, she heard a voice say, "Bring me
the saucepan," and another voice cry, "Put some wood on the fire."

At the same moment the earth opened and she saw a big kitchen full of cooks, and all sorts
of things necessary for the making of a magnificent banquet, and everybody hard at work.

The Princess, astonished at this sight, asked the men for whom they were working.

"For the Prince Tufty Riquet," answered the head cook, "for to-morrow is his wedding day."

The Princess, more surprised than ever, all at once recollected that it was just a year ago
that very day that she had promised to marry the ugly Tufty Riquet.

The reason that she had not remembered her promise before was that she was foolish when she
made it, and in becoming clever she had forgotten all her former stupidities.

She had only walked on a few steps further, when Riquet appeared before her, magnificently
clad, as a Prince about to marry.

"Here you see me, madam," said he, "keeping my word, and I have no doubt that you also came
here to keep yours, and by giving me your hand to make me the happiest of men."

"I frankly confess," replied the Princess, "that I have not yet made up my mind, and I do not
think I can ever do as you wish."

"You surprise me, madam," said Riquet.

"I can quite believe that," said the Princess, "and if you were not a good and clever man,
I should not know how to act. But you are well aware that it was when I was stupid I promised
to marry you, but now, as you may imagine, I am not so easily pleased."

"Except for my ugliness," said Riquet, "have you anything against me? Do you object to my birth,
my character, or my manners?"

"Not at all," replied the Princess, "I love those things in you."

"If that is so," answered Riquet, "I shall indeed be made happy, because you can cause me to
become the most delightful of men if only you will desire it. For know, madam, the same fairy
who at my birth gave me the power to impart cleverness to whomsoever I should love, gave you
a gift also, that of being able to render beautiful the one to whom you would grant this favour."

"If that is the case," exclaimed the Princess, "I desire with all my heart that you might be
the most handsome and pleasing Prince in the world."

No sooner had the Princess uttered these words than her wish was fulfilled, though some say
that no change really took place in Riquet, but that the Princess loved him now so much that
all his ugliness was seen as beauty by her eyes.

However that may be, she straightway consented to be his bride, and, as the preparations had
already been made, the wedding took place the very next day.

THUMBLING

There was once a poor woodman sitting by the fire in his cottage and his wife sat by his side
spinning. "How lonely it is," said he, "for you and me to sit here by ourselves without any
children to play about and amuse us, while other people seem so happy and merry with their
children!" "What you say is very true," said the wife, sighing, and turning her wheel; "how
happy should I be if I had but one child! and if it were ever so small, nay, if it were no
bigger than my thumb, I should be very happy, and love it dearly." Now it came to pass that
this good woman's wish was fulfilled just as she desired; for, some time afterwards, she had
a little boy, who was quite healthy and strong, but not much bigger than my thumb. So they
said, "Well, we cannot say we have not got what we wished for, and, little as he is, we will
love him dearly;" and they called him Thumbling.

They gave him plenty of food, yet he never grew bigger, but remained just the same size as
when he was born; still, his eyes were sharp and sparkling and he soon showed himself to be
a clever little fellow, who always knew well what he was about. One day, as the woodman was
getting ready to go into the wood to cut fuel, he said, "I wish I had some one to bring the
cart after me, for I want to make haste." "Oh, father!" cried Thumbling, "I will take care
of that; the cart shall be in the wood by the time you want it." Then the woodman laughed and
said, "How can that be? You cannot reach up to the horse's bridle." "Never mind that, father,"
said Thumbling; "if my mother will only harness the horse, I will get into his ear, and tell
him which way to go." "Well," said the father, "we will try for once."

When the time came, the mother harnessed the horse to the cart, and put Thumbling into its
ear; and as he sat there, the little man told the beast how to go, crying out, "Go on," and
"Stop," as he wanted; so the horse went on just as if the woodman had driven it himself into
the wood. It happened that, as the horse was going a little too fast, and Thumbling was calling
out "Gently, gently!" two strangers came up. "What an odd thing that is!" said one, "there
is a cart going along, and I heard a carter talking to the horse but can see no one." "That
is strange," said the other; "let us follow the cart and see where it goes." So they went on
into the wood, till at last they came to the place where the woodman was. Then Thumbling, seeing
his father, cried out, "See, father, here I am, with the cart, all right and safe; now take
me down." So his father took hold of the horse with one hand, and with the other took his son
out of the ear; then he put him down upon a straw, where he sat as merry as you please. The
two strangers were all this time looking on, and did not know what to say for wonder. At last
one took the other aside and said, "That little urchin will make our fortune if we can get
him, and carry him about from town to town as a show; we must buy him." So they went to the
woodman and asked him what he would take for the little man: "He will be better off," said
they, "with us than with you." "I won't sell him at all," said the father, "my own flesh and
blood is dearer to me than all the silver and gold in the world." But Thumbling, hearing of
the bargain they wanted to make, crept up his father's coat to his shoulder, and whispered
in his ear, "Take the money, father, and let them have me; I'll soon come back to you."

So the woodman at last agreed to sell Thumbling to the strangers for a large piece of gold.
"Where do you like to sit?" said one of them. "Oh! put me on the rim of your hat, that will
be a nice gallery for me; I can walk about there, and see the country as we go along." So they
did as he wished; and when Thumbling had taken leave of his father, they carried him away with
them. They journeyed on till it began to be dusky, and then the little man said, "Let me get
down, I'm tired." So the man took off his hat and set him down on a clod of earth in a ploughed
field by the side of the road, But Thumbling ran about amongst the furrows, and at last slipped
into a mouse-hole. "Good-night, masters," said he, "I'm off! mind and look sharp after me the
next time." They ran directly to the place, and poked the ends of their sticks into the mouse-hole,
but all in vain; Thumbling only crawled further and further in, and at last it became quite
dark, so they were obliged to go their way without their prize, as sulky as you please.

When Thumbling found they were gone, he came out of his hiding-place. "What dangerous walking
it is," said he, "in this ploughed field! If I were to fall from one of these great clods,
I should certainly break my neck." At last, by good chance, he found a large empty snail-shell.
"This is lucky," said he, "I can sleep here very well," and in he crept. Just as he was falling
asleep he heard two men passing, and one said to the other, "How shall we manage to steal that
rich parson's silver and gold?" "I'll tell you," cried Thumbling. "What noise was that?" said
the thief, frightened. "I am sure I heard some one speak." They stood still listening, and
Thumbling said, "Take me with you, and I'll soon show you how to get the parson's money." "But
where are you?" said they. "Look about on the ground," answered he, "and listen where the sound
comes from." At last the thieves found him out, and lifted him up in their hands. "You little
urchin!" said they, "what can you do for us?" "Why, I can get between the iron window-bars
of the parson's house, and throw you out whatever you want." "That's a good thought," said
the thieves: "come along, we shall see what you can do."

When they came to the parson's house, Thumbling slipped through the window-bars into the room,
and then called out as loudly as he could bawl, "Will you have all that is here?" At this the
thieves were frightened, and said "Softly, softly, speak low that you may not awaken anybody."
But Thumbling pretended not to understand them, and bawled out again, "How much will you have?
Shall I throw it all out?" Now the cook lay in the next room, and hearing a noise she raised
herself in her bed and listened. Meanwhile the thieves were frightened, and ran off to a little
distance; but at last they plucked up courage, and said, "The little urchin is only trying
to make fools of us." So they came back and whispered softly to him, saying, "Now, let us have
no more of your jokes, but throw out some of the money." Then Thumbling called out as loudly
as he could, "Very well; hold out your hands, here it comes." The cook heard this quite plainly,
so she sprang out of bed and ran to open the door. The thieves rushed off as if a wolf were
at their heels; and the maid, having groped about and found nothing, went away for a light.
By the time she returned, Thumbling had slipped off into the barn; and when the cook had looked
about and searched every hole and corner, and found nobody, she went to bed, thinking she must
have been dreaming with her eyes open. The little man crawled about in the hay-loft, and at
last found a glorious place to finish his night's rest in; so he laid himself down, meaning
to sleep till daylight, and then find his way home to his father and mother. But, alas! how
cruelly was he disappointed! what crosses and sorrows happen in this world! The cook got up
early, before daybreak, to feed the cows: she went straight to the hay loft, and carried away
a large bundle of hay with the little man in the middle of it fast asleep. He still, however,
slept on, and did not wake till he found himself in the mouth of the cow, who had taken him
up with a mouthful of hay: "Good lack-a-day!" said he, "how did I manage to tumble into the
mill?" But he soon found out where he really was, and was obliged to have all his wits about
him in order that he might not get between the cow's teeth, and so be crushed to death. At
last she swallowed him down. "It is rather dark here," said he; "they forgot to build windows
in this room to let the sun in; a candle would be no bad thing."

Though he made the best of his bad luck, he did not like his quarters at all; and the worst
of it was, that more and more hay was always coming down, and the space in which he was became
smaller and smaller. At last he cried out as loudly as he could, "Don't bring me any more hay!
Don't bring me any more hay!" The maid happened to be just then milking the cow, and hearing
someone speak and seeing nobody, and yet being quite sure it was the same voice that she had
heard in the night, she was so much frightened that she fell off her stool and overset the
milk-pail. She ran off as fast as she could to her master, the parson, and said, "Sir, sir,
the cow is talking!" But the parson said, "Woman, thou art surely mad!" However, he went with
her into the cow-house to see what was the matter. Scarcely had they set their feet on the
threshold when Thumbling called out, "Don't bring me any more hay!" Then the parson himself
was frightened; and thinking the cow was surely bewitched, ordered that she should be killed
directly. So the cow was killed, and the part in which Thumbling lay was thrown away.

Thumbling soon set himself to work to get out, which was not a very easy task; but at last,
just as he had made room to get his head through, a new misfortune befell him: a hungry wolf
passed by and swallowed Thumbling and all, at a single gulp, and ran away. Thumbling, however,
was not disheartened; and thinking the wolf would not dislike having some chat with him as
he was going along, he called out, "My good friend, I can show you a famous treat." "Where's
that?" said the wolf. "In such and such a house," said Thumbling, describing his father's house,
"you can crawl through the drain into the kitchen, and there you will find cakes, ham, beef,
and everything your heart can desire." The wolf did not want to be asked twice; so that very
night he went to the house and crawled through the drain into the kitchen, and ate and drank
there to his heart's content. As soon as he was satisfied, he wanted to get away; but he had
eaten so much that he could not get out the same way that he came in. This was just what Thumbling
had reckoned upon; and he now began to set up a great shout, making all the noise he could.
"Will you be quiet?" said the wolf, "you'll awaken everybody in the house." "What's that to
me?" said the little man, "you have had your frolic, now I've a mind to be merry myself;" and
he began again singing and shouting as loudly as he could.

The woodman and his wife, being awakened by the noise, peeped through a crack in the door;
but when they saw that the wolf was there, you may well suppose that they were terribly frightened;
and the woodman ran for his axe, and gave his wife a scythe. "Now do you stay behind," said
the woodman; "and when I have knocked him on the head, do you cut him open with the scythe."
Thumbling heard all this, and said, "Father, father! I am here; the wolf has swallowed me;"
and his father said, "Heaven be praised! we have found our dear child again;" and he told his
wife not to use the scythe, for fear she should hurt him. Then he aimed a great blow, and struck
the wolf on the head, and killed him on the spot; and when he was dead they cut open his body
and set Thumbling free. "Ah!" said the father, "what fears we have had for you!" "Yes, father,"
answered he, "I have travelled all over the world, since we parted, in one way or other; and
now I am very glad to get fresh air again." "Why, where have you been?" said the father. "I
have been in a mouse-hole, in a snail-shell, down a cow's throat, and inside the wolf; and
yet here I am again safe and sound." "Well," said they, "we will not sell you again for all
the riches in the world." So they hugged and kissed their dear little son, and gave him plenty
to eat and drink, and fetched new clothes for him, for his old ones were quite spoiled on his
journey.

THE RAPHAEL HOUSE LIBRARY OF GIFT BOOKS

FOR BOYS AND GIRLS

THIRTY BEAUTIFUL VOLUMES

Edited by CAPTAIN EDRIC VREDENBURG

Pictorial Boards, Cloth Back. Cloth, Bevelled Gilt Edges

A charming series of delightful volumes that have certainly taken a foremost place amongst
the cherished classics for young people. Each book embodies a distinct feature, all are carefully
compiled, and appeal alike to children and their elders. The tales are told by able authors
of to-day and celebrated writers of past years, with lavish and excellent illustrations by
popular artists. The volumes are bound in attractive covers.

CHILDREN'S STORIES FROM OLD BRITISH LEGENDS

BY M. DOROTHY BELGRAVE AND HILDA HART.

ILLUSTRATED BY HARRY G. THEAKER.

These ancient legends of England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland, delightfully narrated and brilliantly
illustrated, constitute a volume which may well claim to be amongst the most beautiful books
of this beautiful series. Printed on rough art paper. 10 full-page colour plates, 144 pp. letterpress,
4to.

MY BOOK OF FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES

STORIES RE-TOLD BY CAPT. EDRIC VREDENBURG AND OTHERS.

ILLUSTRATED BY JENNIE HARBOUR.

The well-known stories of "Cinderella," "Beauty and the Beast," "Red Riding Hood," etc., etc.
Popular tales that are ever in demand, sumptuously illustrated with exquisitely decorative
and highly original designs. Printed on rough art paper. 12 full-page colour plates. 144 pp.
letterpress, crown 4to.

HANS ANDERSEN'S FAIRY TALES

ILLUSTRATED BY MABEL LUCIE ATTWELL

Dainty grace and quaint charm pervade this exquisite edition of a selection from the beloved
fairy tales. Numerous black and white drawings.

GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES

ILLUSTRATED BY MABEL LUCIE ATTWELL

New editions of these famous stories are ever acceptable, and in these illustrations Mabel
Lucie Attwell has excelled herself, so admirably has she depicted the conceptions of the famous
writers.

ANIMAL LEGENDS FROM MANY LANDS

BY ROSE YEATMAN WOOLF

ILLUSTRATED BY EDWIN NOBLE

Truly splendid stories illustrative of the cunning of the Fox, the greediness of the Wolf,
the obstinacy of the Mule, and other fancifully descriptive tales of the ways and doings of
the inhabitants of the Animal Kingdom. These stories, as the title of the volume indicates,
are collected from the legendary lore of many lands. The pictures are in the artist's most
spirited and powerful style.

ÆSOP'S FABLES

ILLUSTRATED BY EDWIN NOBLE

A magnificent edition of these ever-applicable and world-famed Fables, strikingly pictured
with excellent coloured and black and white drawings, and forming a most desirable volume alike
for young and old, and a handsome addition to any library.

TALES OF KING ARTHUR

AND THE KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE

BY DORIS ASHLEY

ILLUSTRATED BY ARTHUR A. DIXON.

A particularly apt selection from the marvellous exploits of the Knights of the Round Table,
related in thrilling language and illustrated in an ideal manner with pictures in colour and
black and white. A perfect present for a boy or girl.

GLORIOUS BATTLES OF ENGLISH HISTORY

BY MAJOR C.H. WYLLY

WITH FOREWORD BY SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE

ILLUSTRATED BY HARRY PAYNE

Books of Battles are ever popular, and this one, with its well-chosen incidents, told in an
easy and interesting style by an officer of the British Army, and its inspiring foreword, will
take a high rank and be greatly in demand particularly amongst that large section of the public
to whom fact appeals so much more strongly than fiction. The illustrator has spared no pains
in making his pictures worthy of their subject. 144 pp. letterpress, crown 4to.

CHILDREN'S STORIES FROM SHAKESPEARE

BY E. NESBIT; AND

WHEN SHAKESPEARE WAS A BOY

BY DR. F.J. FURNIVALL, M.A.

NEW EDITION

This book brings before the minds of children, in a most attractive manner, many of the great
dramatic poet's works, acquainting them with the characters and plots of the plays in a delicate
way, and in a style that is certain to make them long for the time when they shall read the
whole for themselves. The introductory history by Dr. Furnivall is full of charm and instruction.
This entirely new edition has full-page colour and black and white drawings by John H. Bacon,
A.R.A., Arthur Dixon, Howard Davie and Harold Copping.

CHILDREN'S STORIES FROM TENNYSON

BY NORA CHESSON

NEW EDITION

The most popular poems of Tennyson, "The Lily Maid," "Lady Clare," "The Lord of Burleigh,"
"The Story of King Arthur," etc., etc., retold in prose, and so introducing to the minds of
young people the great poet's works, and familiarising them with his celebrated characters.
This is a new edition, with additional beautiful illustrations in colour and black and white
by John H. Bacon, A.R.A., Gordon Browne, R.I., Arthur Dixon and others. The illustrations possess
all that delicacy and beauty which is characteristic of the artist. The beautiful colour pictures,
with the black and white drawings, are full of poetry and interest. To this new edition more
pictures have been added. The volume is charmingly illustrated throughout by the late John
H. Bacon, A.R.A., Howard Davie, M. Bowley, and other popular artists. Printed on rough art paper.

ALICE IN WONDERLAND

ILLUSTRATED BY MABEL LUCIE ATTWELL

An exceptionally attractive edition of the popular Fairy Tale by Lewis Carroll, characteristically
and charmingly illustrated with many black and white drawings and full-page colour plates.
This story, which will hold its own as long as dreams are dreamed, is here presented in a worthy
setting, and one which will meet with universal approbation. 152 pp. letterpress, crown 4to.

CHILDREN'S STORIES FROM DICKENS

BY MARY ANGELA DICKENS

ILLUSTRATED BY HAROLD COPPING

The child interest from some of Dickens' masterpieces is here depicted afresh, and told in
simple and charming language by his grand-daughter, Mary Angela Dickens, and other writers,
with an introduction by Percy Fitzgerald, the friend of, and eminent authority on, Charles
Dickens. The stories of Little David Copperfield, Little Nell, Tiny Tim, Little Paul Dombey,
etc., etc., are here narrated, all being profusely illustrated. These tales are admirably illustrated
with numerous drawings in colour and black and white.

THE RAPHAEL HOUSE LIBRARY OF GIFT BOOKS

Edited by CAPTAIN EDRIC VREDENBURG

Thirty beautiful Volumes, profusely illustrated in colour and black and white. Crown 4to.

TALES OF THE ALHAMBRA. By WASHINGTON IRVING. Illustrated by H.M. BROCK. 12 full-page colour
plates. 144pp. 12 full-page colour plates. 12 full-page colour plates. 144 pp.

MY BOOK OF FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES. By CAPT. EDRIC VREDENBURG and others. Illustrated by JENNIE
HARBOUR. 12 full-page colour plates. 144pp. 10 full-page colour plates. Translated and adapted
by N. KATO. Translated and adapted by SERAPHIMA PULMAN. Illustrated by ARTHUR A. DIXON. 12
full-page colour plates. 12 full-page colour plates. 152pp.

CHILDREN'S STORIES FROM ENGLISH HISTORY. By E. NESBIT and DORIS ASHLEY. Illustrated by JOHN
H. BACON, A.R.A., HOWARD DAVIE, and others. 9 full-page colour plates. 144pp. By E. NESBIT.
Illustrated by J.H. BACON, A.R.A., HOWARD DAVIE, and H. COPPING. By NORA CHESSON. Illustrated
by JOHN H. BACON, A.R.A., ARTHUR DIXON, HAROLD COPPING, and other artists. 10 full-page colour
plates. 144pp.

CHILDREN'S STORIES FROM LONGFELLOW. By DORIS ASHLEY. 12 full-page colour plates. 144 pp.

THE WATER BABIES. By CHARLES KINGSLEY. Abridged Edition. 144pp. By LEWIS CARROLL. 152pp.

MOTHER GOOSE. 144pp.

CURLY HEADS AND LONG LEGS. Stories by the Editor, GRACE C. FLOYD, and others. Illustrated by
HILDA COWHAM. 12 full-page colour plates. 144 pp.

GOLDEN LOCKS AND PRETTY FROCKS. Stories by NORMAN GALE, GRACE C. FLOYD, the Editor, and others.
Illustrated by AGNES RICHARDSON. 12 full-page colour plates. 144pp.

TINKER, TAILOR. Stories by Captain EDRIC VREDENBURG. Illustrated by Louis WAIN. 12 full-page
colour plates. 144pp.

Raphael Tuck and Sons, Ltd., London, Paris, New York. Publishers by special appointment to
Their Majesties the King and Queen.