One other variety of mystification may introduce us to some of Balzac's most powerful stories.
He indulges more frequently than could be wished in downright melodrama, or what is generally
called sensational writing. In the very brilliant sketch of Nathan in 'Une Fille d'Eve,' he
remarks that 'the mission of genius is to search, through the accidents of the true, for that
which must appear probable to all the world.' The common saying, that truth is stranger than
fiction, should properly be expressed as an axiom that fiction ought not to be so strange as
truth. A marvellous event is interesting in real life, simply because we know that it happened.
In a fiction we know that it did not happen; and therefore it is interesting only as far as
it is explained. Anybody can invent a giant or a genius by the simple process of altering figures
or piling up superlatives. The artist has to make the existence of the giant or the genius
conceivable. Balzac, however, often enough forgets this principle, and treats us to purely
preposterous incidents, which are either grotesque or simply childish. The history of the marvellous
'Thirteen,' for example, that mysterious band which includes statesmen, beggars, men of fortune,
and journalists, and goes about committing the most inconceivable crimes without the possibility
of discovery, becomes simply ludicrous. Balzac, as usual, labours to reconcile our minds to
the absurdity; but the effort is beyond his powers. The amazing disease which he invents for
the benefit of the villains in the 'Cousine Bette' can only be accepted as a broad joke. At
times, as in the story of the 'Grande Bretêche,' where the lover is bricked up by the husband
in the presence of the wife, he reminds us of Edgar Poe's worst extravagances. There is, indeed,
this much to be said for Balzac in comparison with the more recent school, who have turned
to account all the most refined methods of breaking the ten commandments and the criminal code;
the fault of the so-called sensation writer is, not that he deals in murder, bigamy, or adultery--every
great writer likes to use powerful situations--but that he relies upon our interest in startling
crimes to distract our attention from feebly-drawn characters and conventional details. Balzac
does not often fall into that weakness. If his criminals are frequently of the most outrageous
kind, and indulge even in practices unmentionable, the crime is intended at least to be of
secondary interest. He tries to fix our attention on the passions by which they are caused,
and to attract us chiefly by the legitimate method of analysing human nature--even, it must
be confessed, in some of its most abnormal manifestations. Macbeth is not interesting because
he commits half-a-dozen murders; but the murders are interesting because they are committed
by Macbeth. We may generally say as much for Balzac's villains; and it is the only justification
for a free use of blood and brutality. In applying these remarks, we come to the real secret
of Balzac's power, which will demand a fuller consideration.

It is common to say of all great novelists, and of Balzac in particular, that they display
a wonderful 'knowledge of the human heart.' The chief objection to the phrase is that such
knowledge does not exist. Nobody has as yet found his way through the complexities of that
intricate machine, and described the springs and balances by which its movement is originated
and controlled. Men of vivid imagination are in some respects less competent for such a work
than their neighbours. They have not the cool, hard, and steady hand required for psychological
dissection. Balzac gave a queer specimen of his own incapacity in an attempt to investigate
the true history of a real murder, celebrated in its day, and supposed by everybody but Balzac
to have been committed by one Peytel, who was put to death in spite of his pleading. His skill
in devising motives for imaginary atrocities was a positive disqualification for dealing with
facts and legal evidence. The greatest poet or novelist describes only one person, and that
is himself; and he differs from his inferiors, not necessarily in having a more systematic
knowledge, but in having wider sympathies, and so to speak, possessing a great number of characters.
Cervantes was at once Don Quixote and Sancho Panza; Shakespeare was Hamlet and Mercutio and
Othello and Falstaff; Scott was at once Dandie Dinmont and the Antiquary and the Master of
Ravenswood; and Balzac embodies his different phases of feeling in Eugénie Grandet and Vautrin
and the Père Goriot. The assertion that he knew the human heart must be interpreted to mean
that he could sympathise with, and give expression to, a wide range of human passions; as his
supposed knowledge of the world implies merely that he was deeply impressed by certain phenomena
of the social medium in which he was placed. Nobody, I should be inclined to think, would have
given a more unsound judgment than Balzac as to the characters of the men whom he met, or formed
a less trustworthy estimate of the real condition of society. He was totally incapable of stripping
the bare facts given by observation of the colouring which they received from his own idiosyncrasy.
But nobody, within certain points, could express more vividly in outward symbols the effect
produced upon keen sympathies and a powerful imagination by the aspect of the world around him.

The characteristic peculiarities of Balzac's novels may be described as the intensity with
which he expresses certain motives, and the vigour with which he portrays the real or imaginary
corruption of society. Upon one particular situation, or class of situations, favourable to
this peculiar power, he is never tired of dwelling. He repeats himself indeed, in a certain
sense, as a man must necessarily repeat himself who writes eighty-five stories, besides doing
other work, in less than twenty years. In this voluminous outpouring of matter the machinery
is varied with wonderful fertility of invention, but one sentiment recurs very frequently.
The great majority of Balzac's novels, including all the most powerful examples, may thus be
described as variations on a single theme. Each of them is in fact the record of a martyrdom.
There is always a virtuous hero or heroine who is tortured, and most frequently, tortured to
death, by a combination of selfish intrigues. The commonest case is, of course, that which
has become the staple plot of French novelists, where the interesting young woman is sacrificed
to the brutality of a dull husband: that, for example, is the story of the 'Femme de Trente
Ans,' of 'Le Lys dans la Vallée,' and of several minor performances; then we have the daughter
sacrificed to the avaricious father, as in 'Eugénie Grandet;' the woman sacrificed to the imperious
lover in the 'Duchesse de Langeais;' the immoral beauty sacrificed to the ambition of her lover
in the 'Splendeurs et Misères des Courtisanes;' the mother sacrificed to the dissolute son
in the 'Ménage de Garçon;' the woman of political ambition sacrificed to the contemptible intriguers
opposed to her in 'Les Employés;' and, indeed, in one way or other, as subordinate character
or as heroine, this figure of a graceful feminine victim comes into nearly every novel. Virtuous
heroes fare little better. Poor Colonel Chabert is disowned and driven to beggary by the wife
who has committed bigamy; the luckless curé, Birotteau, is cheated out of his prospects and
doomed to a broken heart by the successful villainy of a rival priest and his accomplices;
the Comte de Manerville is ruined and transported by his wife and his detestable mother-in-law;
Père Goriot is left to starvation by his daughters; the Marquis d'Espard is all but condemned
as a lunatic by the manoeuvres of his wife; the faithful servant Michu comes to the guillotine;
the devoted notary Chesnel is beggared in the effort to save his scape-grace of a master; Michaud,
another devoted adherent, is murdered with perfect success by the brutal peasantry, and his
wife dies of the news; Balthazar Claes is the victim of his devotion to science; and Z. Marcas
dies unknown and in the depths of misery as a reward for trying to be a second Colbert. The
old-fashioned canons of poetical justice are inverted; and the villains are dismissed to live
very happily ever afterwards, whilst the virtuous are slain outright or sentenced to a death
by slow torture. Thackeray, in one or two of his minor stories, has touched the same note.
The history of Mr. Deuceace, and especially its catastrophe, is much in Balzac's style; but,
as a rule, our English novelists shrink from anything so unpleasant.

Perhaps the most striking example of this method is the 'Père Goriot.' The general situation
may be described in two words, by saying that Goriot is the modern King Lear. Mesdames de Restaud
and de Nucingen are the representatives of Regan and Goneril; but the Parisian Lear is not
allowed the consolation of a Cordelia; the cup of misery is measured out to him drop by drop,
and the bitterness of each dose is analysed with chemical accuracy. We watch the poor old broken-down
merchant, who has impoverished himself to provide his daughters' dowries, and has gradually
stripped himself, first of comfort, and then of the necessaries of life to satisfy the demands
of their folly and luxury, as we might watch a man clinging to the edge of a cliff and gradually
dropping lower and lower, catching feebly at every point of support till his strength is exhausted,
and the inevitable catastrophe follows. The daughters, allowed to retain some fragments of
good feeling and not quite irredeemably hateful, are gradually yielding to the demoralising
influence of a heartless vanity. They yield, it is true, pretty completely at last; but their
wickedness seems to reveal the influence of a vague but omnipotent power of evil in the background.
There is not a more characteristic scene in Balzac than that in which Rastignac, the lover
of Madame de Nucingen, overhears the conversation between the father in his wretched garret
and the modern Goneril and Regan. A gleam of good fortune has just encouraged old Goriot to
anticipate an escape from his troubles. On the morning of the day of expected release Madame
Goneril de Nucingen rushes up to her father's garret to explain to him that her husband, the
rich banker, having engaged all his funds in some diabolical financial intrigues, refuses to
allow her the use of her fortune; whilst, owing to her own misconduct, she is afraid to appeal
to the law. They have a hideous tacit compact, according to which the wife enjoys full domestic
liberty, whilst the husband may use her fortune to carry out his dishonest plots. She begs
her father to examine the facts in the light of his financial experience, though the examination
must be deferred, that she may not look ill with the excitement when she meets her lover at
the ball. As the poor father is tormenting his brains, Madame Regan de Restaud appears in terrible
distress. Her lover has threatened to commit suicide unless he can meet a certain bill, and
to save him she has pledged certain diamonds which were heirlooms in her husband's family.
Her husband has discovered the whole transaction, and, though not making an open scandal, imposes
some severe conditions upon her future. Old Goriot is raving against the brutality of her husband,
when Regan adds that there is still a sum to be paid, without which her lover, to whom she
has sacrificed everything, will be ruined. Now old Goriot had employed just this sum--all but
the very last fragment of his fortune--in the service of Goneril. A desperate quarrel instantly
takes place between the two fine ladies over this last scrap of their father's property. They
are fast degenerating into Parisian Billingsgate, when Goriot succeeds in obtaining silence
and proposes to strip himself of his last penny. Even the sisters hesitate at such an impiety,
and Rastignac enters with some apology for listening, and hands over to the countess a certain
bill of exchange for a sum which he professes himself to owe to Goriot, and which will just
save her lover. She accepts the paper, but vehemently denounces her sister for having, as she
supposes, allowed Rastignac to listen to their hideous revelations, and retires in a fury,
whilst the father faints away. He recovers to express his forgiveness, and at this moment the
countess returns, ostensibly to throw herself on her knees and beg her father's pardon. She
apologises to her sister, and a general reconciliation takes place. But before she has again
left the room she has obtained her father's endorsement to Rastignac's bill. Even her most
genuine fury had left coolness enough for calculation, and her burst of apparent tenderness
was a skilful bit of comedy for squeezing one more drop of blood from her father and victim.
That is a genuine stroke of Balzac.

Hideous as the performance appears when coolly stated, it must be admitted that the ladies
have got into such terrible perplexities from tampering with the seventh commandment, that
there is some excuse for their breaking the fifth. Whether such an accumulation of horrors
is a legitimate process in art, and whether a healthy imagination would like to dwell upon
such loathsome social sores, is another question. The comparison suggested with 'King Lear'
may illustrate the point. In Balzac all the subordinate details which Shakespeare throws in
with a very slovenly touch are elaborately drawn, and contribute powerfully to the total impression.
On the other hand, we never reach the lofty poetical heights of the grandest scenes in 'King
Lear.' But the situation of the two heroes offers an instructive contrast. Lear is weak, but
is never contemptible; he is the ruin of a gallant old king, is guilty of no degrading compliance,
and dies like a man, with his 'good biting falchion' still grasped in his feeble hand. To change
him into Goriot we must suppose that he had licked the hand which struck him, that he had helped
on the adulterous intrigues of Goneril and Regan from sheer weakness, and that all his fury
had been directed against Cornwall and Albany for objecting to his daughters' eccentric views
of the obligation of the marriage vow. Paternal affection leading a man to the most trying
self-sacrifice is a worthy motive for a great drama or romance; but Balzac is so anxious to
intensify the emotion, that he makes even paternal affection morally degrading. Everything
must be done to heighten the colouring. Our sympathies are to be excited by making the sacrifice
as complete, and the emotion which prompts it as overpowering, as possible; until at last the
love of children becomes a monomania. Goriot is not only dragged through the mud of Paris,
but he grovels in it with a will. In short, Balzac wants that highest power which shows itself
by moderation, and commits a fault like that of an orator who emphasizes every sentence. With
less expenditure of horrors, he would excite our compassion more powerfully. But after all,
Goriot is, perhaps, more really affecting even than King Lear.

Situations of the 'Père Goriot' kind are, in some sense, more appropriate for heroines than
for heroes. Self-sacrifice is, for the present at least, considered by a large part of mankind
as the complete duty of woman. The feminine martyr can indulge without loss of our esteem in
compliances which would be degrading in a man. Accordingly Balzac finds the amplest materials
for his favourite situation in the torture of innocent women. The great example of his skill
in this department is Eugénie Grandet, in which the situation of the Père Goriot is inverted.
Poor Eugénie is the victim of a domestic tyrant, who is, perhaps, Balzac's most finished portrait
of the cold-blooded and cunning miser. The sacrifice of a woman's life to paternal despotism
is unfortunately even commoner in real life than in fiction; and when the lover, from whom
the old miser has divided her during his life, deserts her after his death, we feel that the
mournful catastrophe is demanded by the sombre prologue. The book may indeed justify, to some
extent, one of the ordinary criticisms upon Balzac, that he showed a special subtlety in describing
the sufferings of women. The question as to the general propriety of that criticism is rather
difficult for a male critic. I confess to a certain scepticism, founded partly on the general
principle that hardly any author can really describe the opposite sex, and partly on an antipathy
which I cannot repress to Balzac's most ambitious feminine portraits.

Eugénie Grandet is perhaps the purest of his women; but then Eugénie Grandet is simply stupid,
and interesting from her sufferings rather than her character. She reminds us of some patient
animal of the agricultural kind, with bovine softness of eyes and bovine obstinacy under suffering.
His other women, though they are not simply courtesans, after the fashion of some French writers,
seem, as it were, to have a certain perceptible taint; they breathe an unwholesome atmosphere.
In one of his extravagant humours, he tells us that the most perfect picture of purity in existence
is the Madonna of the Genoese painter, Piola, but that even that celestial Madonna would have
looked like a Messalina by the side of the Duchesse de Manfrigneuse. If the duchess resembled
either personage in character, it was certainly not the Madonna. And Balzac's best women give
us the impression that they are courtesans acting the character of virgins, and showing admirable
dramatic skill in the performance. They may keep up the part so obstinately as to let the acting
become earnest; but even when they don't think of breaking the seventh commandment, they are
always thinking about not breaking it. When he has done his best to describe a thoroughly pure
woman, such as Henrietta in the 'Lys dans la Vallée,' he cannot refrain from spoiling his performance
by throwing in a hint at the conclusion that, after all, she had a strong disposition to go
wrong, which was only defeated by circumstances. Indeed, the ladies who in his pages have broken
loose from all social restraints, differ only in external circumstances from their more correct
sisters. Coralie, in the 'Illusions Perdues,' is not so chaste in her conduct as the immaculate
Henriette, but is not a whit less delicate in her tastes. Madame de la Baudraye deserts her
husband, and lives for some years with her disreputable lover at Paris, and does not in the
least forfeit the sympathies of her creator. Balzac's feminine types may be classified pretty
easily. At bottom they are all of the sultana variety--playthings who occasionally venture
into mixing with the serious affairs of life, but then only on pain of being ridiculous (as
in the 'Employés,' or the 'Muse du Département'); but properly confined to their drawing-rooms,
with delicate cajoleries for their policy, and cunning instead of intellect. Sometimes they
are cold-hearted and selfish, and then they are vicious, making victims of lovers, husbands,
or fathers, consuming fortunes, and spreading ill-will by cunning intrigues; sometimes they
are virtuous, and therefore according to Balzac's logic, pitiable victims of the world. But
their virtue, when it exists, is the effect, not of lofty principle, but of a certain delicacy
of taste corresponding to a fine organisation. They object to vice, because it is apt to be
coarse; and are perfectly ready to yield, if it can be presented in such graceful forms as
not to shock their sensibilities. Marriage is therefore a complicated intrigue in which one
party is always deceived, though it may be for his or her good. If you will be loved, says
the judicious lady in the 'Mémoires de Deux Jeunes Mariées,' the secret is not to love; and
the rather flimsy epigram is converted into a great moral truth. The justification of the lady
is, that love is only made permanent by elaborate intrigue. The wife is to be always on the
footing of a mistress who can only preserve her lover by incessant and infinitely varied caresses.
To do this, she must be herself cool. The great enemy of matrimonial happiness is satiety,
and we are constantly presented with an affectionate wife boring her husband to death, and
alienating him by over-devotion. If one party is to be cheated, the one who is freest from
passion will be the winner of the game. As a maxim, after the fashion of Rochefoucauld, this
doctrine may have enough truth to be plausible; but when seriously accepted and made the substantive
moral of a succession of stories, one is reminded less of a really acute observer than of a
lad fresh from college who thinks that wisdom consists in an exaggerated cynicism. When ladies
of this variety break their hearts, they either die or retire in a picturesque manner to a
convent. They are indeed the raw material of which the genuine dévote is made. The morbid sentimentality
directed to the lover passes without perceptible shock into a religious sentimentality, the
object of which is at least ostensibly different. The graceful but voluptuous mistress of the
Parisian salon is developed without any violent transition into the equally graceful and ascetic
nun. The connection between the luxurious indulgence of material flirtations and religious
mysticism is curious, but unmistakable.

Balzac's reputation in this respect is founded, not on his little hoard of cynical maxims,
which, to say the truth, are not usually very original, but on the vivid power of describing
the details and scenery of the martyrdom, and the energy with which he paints the emotion,
of the victim. Whether his women are very lifelike, or very varied in character, may be doubted;
but he has certainly endowed them with an admirable capacity for suffering, and forces us to
listen sympathetically to their cries of anguish. The peculiar cynicism implied in this view
of feminine existence must be taken as part of his fundamental theory of society. When Rastignac
has seen Goriot buried, the ceremony being attended only by his daughters' empty carriages,
he climbs to the highest part of the cemetery, and looks over Paris. As he contemplates the
vast buzzing hive, he exclaims solemnly, 'à nous deux maintenant!' The world is before him;
he is to fight his way in future without remorse. Accordingly, Balzac's view of society is,
that it is a masquerade of devils, engaged in tormenting a few wandering angels. That society
is not what Balzac represents it to be is sufficiently proved by the fact that society exists;
as indeed he is profoundly convinced that its destruction is only a question of time. It is
rotten to the core. Lust and avarice are the moving forms of the world, while profound and
calculating selfishness has sapped the base of all morality. The type of a successful statesman
is De Marsay, a kind of imaginary Talleyrand, who rules because he has recognised the intrinsic
baseness of mankind, and has no scruples in turning it to account. Vautrin, who is an open
enemy of society, is simply De Marsay in revolt. The weapons with which he fights are distinguished
from those of greater men, not in their intrinsic wickedness, but in their being accidentally
forbidden by law. He is less of a hypocrite, and scarcely a greater villain than his more prosperous
rivals. He ultimately recognises the futility of the strife, agrees to wear a mask like his
neighbours, and accepts the congenial duties of a police agent. The secret of success in all
ranks of life is to be without scruples of morality, but exceedingly careful of breaking the
law. The bankers, Nucingen and Du Tillet, are merely cheats on a gigantic scale. They ruin
their enemies by financiering instead of picking pockets. Be wicked if you would be successful;
if possible let your wickedness be refined; but, at all events, be wicked.

There is, indeed, a class of unsuccessful villains, to be found chiefly amongst journalists,
for whom Balzac has a special aversion; they live, he tells us, partly on extortion, and partly
on the prostitution of their talents to gratify political or personal animosities, and are
at the mercy of the longest purse. They fail in life, not because they are too immoral, but
because they are too weak. They are the victims instead of the accomplices of more resolute
evil-doers. Lucien de Rubempré is the type of this class. Endowed with surpassing genius and
personal beauty, he goes to Paris to make his fortune, and is introduced to the world as it
is. On the one hand is a little knot of virtuous men, called the cénacle, who are working for
posterity and meanwhile starving. On the other is a vast mass of cheats and dupes. After a
brief struggle Lucien yields to temptation, and joins in the struggle for wealth and power.
But he has not strength enough to play his part. His head is turned by the flattery of pretty
actresses and scheming publishers: he is enticed into thoughtless dissipation, and, after a
brilliant start, finds that he is at the mercy of the cleverer villains who surround him; that
he has been bought and sold like a sheep; that his character is gone, and his imagination become
sluggish; and, finally, he has to escape from utter ruin by scarcely describable degradation.
He writes a libel on one of his virtuous friends, who is forgiving enough to improve it and
correct it for the press. In order to bury his mistress, who has been ruined with him, he has
to raise money by grovelling in the foulest depths of literary sewerage. He at last succeeds
in crawling back to his relations in the country, morally and materially ruined. He makes another
effort to rise, backed up by the diabolical arts of Vautrin, and relying rather on his beauty
than his talents. The world is again too strong for him, and, after being accomplice in the
most outrageous crimes, he ends appropriately by hanging himself in prison. Vautrin, as we
have seen, escapes from the fate of his partner because he retains coolness enough to practise
upon the vices of the governing classes. The world, in short, is composed of three classes--consistent
and, therefore, successful villains; inconsistent and, therefore, unsuccessful villains; and
virtuous persons, who never have a chance of success, and enjoy the honours of starvation.

The provinces differ from Paris in the nature of the social warfare, but not in its morality.
Passions are directed to meaner objects; they are narrower, and more intense. The whole of
a man's faculties are concentrated upon one object; and he pursues it for years with relentless
and undeviating ardour. To supplant a rival, to acquire a few more acres, to gratify jealousy
of a superior, he will labour for a lifetime. The intensity of his hatred supplies his want
of intellect; he is more cunning, if less far-sighted; and in the contest between the brilliant
Parisian and the plodding provincial we generally have an illustration of the hare and the
tortoise. The blind, persistent hatred gets the better in the long run of the more brilliant,
but more transitory, passion. The lower nature here, too, gets the better of the higher; and
Balzac characteristically delights in the tragedy produced by genius which falls before cunning,
as virtue almost invariably yields to vice. It is only when the slow provincial obstinacy happens
to be on the side of virtue that stupidity, doubled with virtue, as embodied for example in
two or three French Caleb Balderstons, generally gets the worst of it. There are exceptions
to this general rule. Even Balzac sometimes relents. A reprieve is granted at the last moment,
and the martyr is unbound from the stake. But those catastrophes are not only exceptional,
but rather annoying. We have been so prepared to look for a sacrifice that we are disappointed
instead of relieved. If Balzac's readers could be consulted during the last few pages of a
novel, I feel sure that most thumbs would be turned upwards, and the lions allowed to have
their will of the Christians. Perhaps our appetites have been depraved; but we are not in the
cue for a happy conclusion.

