"Yes, I fear they'll not lose much time over it, at the Old Bailey. We may expect to read his
name among the Newgate hangings in a month or two. Poor devil!--I'll send him some money through
my lawyer, and have Nobbs see that he gets decent counsel. Money will enable him to live his
last weeks at Newgate in comfort, at least; though 'tis beyond counsel to save his neck. His
people must never know. Nor Fanny."

"Unless he gives his real name at the trial, or in his 'last dying speech and confession.'"

"Why, even then it may not come to their ears. Best bring Fanny and your mother soon to France.
Madge will never tell, if she learns; I'll warrant her for that. To think of it!--the dear
old house in Queen Street, and the boys and girls we used to play with--Tom's fate--and now
Ned's--Fanny in England--and Madge--! Was ever such diversity of destinies in so small a family?"

He fell into his thoughts: of what strange parts we play in the world, how different from those
anybody would predict for us in our childhood--how different, from those we then predict for
ourselves. And so we were borne across the Thames, looking back to get our last view of St.
Paul's dome for some time to come; through Southwark, and finally into the country. The postilions
kept the horses at a good gait Southward. We did not urge them to this, for indeed we saw but
little necessity for great haste, as there was likely to be some time ere Falconer's death
became known to the authorities, and some time longer ere it was traced to us. But as Mr. Idsleigh,
before getting out of the way himself, might take means to lay written information against
us, which would serve at least to put the minions of the law on the right track, and as we
might be subjected to some delay at Hastings, we saw no reason to repress the postilions' zeal,
either.

In our second stage we were not favoured with so energetic conductors, and in our third we
had unfit horses. So we had occasion to be glad of our excellent start. Thus, between good
horses and bad, live postilions and lethargic, smooth roads and rough, we fared on the whole
rather well than ill, and felt but the smallest apprehension of being caught. To speak metaphorically,
the coast of France was already in our sight.

At the end of the first stage, we had breakfasted upon eggs and beer. We took an early dinner
at Tunbridge Wells, and proceeded through Sussex. 'Twas well forward in the afternoon, and
we were already preparing our eyes, faces, and nostrils for the refreshing intimation of the
sea, when our ears notified us of a vehicle following in our wake. Looking back, at a bend
of the road, we saw it was a conveyance similar to our own, and that the postilions were whipping
the horses to their utmost speed. "Whoever rides there," said I, "has paid or promised well
for haste."

"'Tis strange there should be other folk bound in a hurry for Hastings this same day," replied
Phil.

We looked at one another, with the same thought.

"Their post-boys seem to be watching our chaise as much as anything else," I remarked. "To
be sure, they can't know 'tis you and I."

"No, but if they were in quest of us, they would try to overtake this chaise or any other on
the road. Ho, postilion!--an extra crown apiece for yourselves if you leave those fellows yonder
behind for good." And Phil added quietly to me: "It won't do to offer 'em too much at first--'twould
make 'em suspicious."

"But," quoth I, as our men put their horses to the gallop. "How the devil could any one have
got so soon upon our track?"

"Why, Idsleigh may have turned informer, in his own interest--he was in a devilish difficult
position--and men would be sent with our descriptions to the post-houses. 'Tis merely possible.
Or our hackney-coachman may have guessed something, and dogged me to the Strand, and informed.
If they found where we started, of course they could track us from stage to stage. 'Tis best
to be safe--though I scarce think they're in our pursuit."

"Egad, they're in somebody's!" I cried. "Their postilions are shouting to ours to stop."

"Never mind those fellows' holloing," called Philip to our riders. "'Tis a wager--and I'll
double that crown apiece."

We bowled over the road in a way to make me think of Apollo's chariot and the horses of Phaeton;
but we lengthened not a rod the stretch betwixt us and our followers, though we nullified their
efforts to diminish it. We could make out, more by sight than by hearing--for we kept looking
back, our heads thrust out at either side--that the pursuing post-boys continued bawling vehemently
at ours. What they said, was drowned by the clatter of horses and wheels.

"Well, they have seen we are two men," said Philip, "and still they keep up the race. They
certainly must want us. Were they merely in a hurry to reach Hastings, they could do that the
sooner by sparing their horses--this is a killing pace."

"Then we're in a serious plight," said I. "Though we may beat 'em to Hastings, they will catch
us there."

"Unless we can gain a quarter of an hour's start, and, by one chance in twenty, find the Doughty
boys ashore, and their boat in harbour."

"Ay, there's one chance in twenty, maybe," I growled, looking gloomily back, and wishing I
might see the pursuing chaise upset, or one of its horses stumble.

There is an old proverb about evil wishes rebounding to strike the sender; and a recollection
of this was my paramount thought a moment later: for at a sharp turn our chaise suddenly seemed
to leap into the air and alight on one wheel, and then turned over sidewise with what appeared
to be a solemn deliberation, piling me upon Philip in a heap. We felt the conveyance dragged
some yards along the road, and then it came to a stop. A moment later we heard the postilions
cursing the horses, and then we clambered out of the upper side of the chaise, and leaped into
the road. We had been knocked, shaken, and bruised, but were not seriously hurt.

"Here's the devil to pay," cried the older postilion excitedly, turning his attention from
the trembling horses to the wrecked vehicle.

"We will pay--but you will let us ride your horses the rest of the way?" asked Phil, quietly,
rather as a matter of form than with any hope of success.

"No, sir!" roared the man. "Bean't there damage enough? Just look--"

"Tut, man," said Phil, examining the chaise, "a guinea will mend all--and there it is, and
your extra crowns, too, though you failed. Well," he added, turning to me, "shall we take to
the fields? They'll have to hunt us afoot then, and we may beat 'em at that."

But I found I was too lame, from the knocking about I had got in the upset vehicle, for any
game of hare and hounds. "Go you," said I. "I was only the second--there's less danger for me."

"I'll not go, then," said he. "What a pity I drew you into this, Bert! I ought to have considered
Fanny and your mother. They'll never forgive me--they never ought to.--Well, now we shall know
the worst!"

The second vehicle came to a triumphant stop near us, the postilions grinning with satisfaction.
Phil and I stood passive in the road: I remember wondering whether the officers of the law
would put handcuffs upon us. A head was thrust out of the window--a voice called to us.

"Madge!" we cried together, and hastened to her.

"I was afraid you might sail before I got to Hastings," cried she, with relief and joy depicted
on her face.

"Who is with you?" asked Phil.

"No one," she answered. "I left Bert's letter with my maid, to give to Fanny. I left the girl
too, to stay with her if she will take her. I didn't wish to encumber--Your chaise is broken
down: get into this one. Oh, Phil!--I couldn't bear to have you go away--and leave me--after
I had seen you again. 'Twas something to know you were in London, at least--near me. But if
you go to France--you must let me go, too--you must, dear--as your friend, your comrade and
helper, if nothing more--your old friend, that knew you so long ago--"

She lost voice here, and began to cry, still looking at him through the mist of tears. His
own eyes glistened softly as he returned her gaze; and, after a moment, he went close to the
window through which her head was thrust, raised his hand so as to stroke her hair, and kissed
her on the lips.

"Why, you shall come as my wife, of course," said he, gently. "If I had been sure you wished
it, you might have travelled with us from London, and been spared this chase.--But think what
you are giving up, dear--'tis not too late--the theatre, the praise and admiration, London--"

"Oh, hang 'em all!" cried she, looking joyous through her tears. "'Tis you I want!"

And she caught his face between her hands, and kissed it a dozen times, to the open-mouthed
wonder of the staring postilions.

       *       *       *       *       *

She took us in her post-chaise to Hastings, where the three of us embarked as we had planned
to do, having first arranged that one of the Doughty boys should go to Hampstead and act as
a sort of man servant or protector to my mother and Fanny during their loneliness. They joined
us later in Paris, and I finally accompanied them home when Captain Falconer's fatal duel was
a forgotten matter. Philip and Madge then visited Italy and Germany; and subsequently returned
to New York, having courageously chosen to outface what old scandal remained from the time
of her flight. And so, despite Phil's prediction, 'tis finally his children, not mine, that
gladden the age of Mr. and Mrs. Faringfield, and have brought back the old-time cheer to the
house; for Fanny and I have remained in England, and here our young ones are being reared.
Each under the government for which he fought--thus Philip and I abide. 'Tis no news, that
Phil has become one of the leading architects in his country. My own life has been pleasantly
monotonous, save for the duel I fought against a detractor of General Washington, which, as
I merely wounded my adversary, did not necessitate another exile from the kingdom.

It is still an unsolved mystery in London, as to what became of Miss Warren, the actress of
Drury Lane: she was for long reported to have been carried away by a strange gentleman who
killed Captain Falconer in a duel over her. 'Tis not known in New York that Mrs. Winwood was
ever on the stage. And as I must not yet make it known, nor disclose many things which have
perforce entered into this history, I perceive that my labour has been, after all, to no purpose.
I dare not give the narrative to the world, now it is done; but I cannot persuade myself to
give it to the fire, either. Let it lie hid, then, till all of us concerned in it are passed
away; and perchance it may serve to instruct some future reader how much a transient vanity
and wilfulness may wreck, and how much a steadfast love and courage may retrieve.

THE END.

NOTES.

NOTE 1 (Page 13).

Before the Revolution, there were Queen Street and Pearl Street, together forming a line continuous
though not exactly straight. After the Revolution, the whole line was named Pearl Street. King
Street and Duke Street were others that rightly underwent re-christening. But, with equal propriety,
many old names smacking of the English régime were retained, and serve as memorials of the
English part of the city's colonial history: such names, for instance, as William Street, Nassau
Street, Hanover Square, Kingsbridge; not to mention New York itself. The old Dutch rule, too,
remains marked in the city's nomenclature--for ever, let us hope. I say, "let us hope;" for
there have been attempts to have the authorities change the name of the Bowery itself, that
renowned thoroughfare which began, in the very morn of the city's history, as a lane leading
to Peter Stuyvesant's bauer. I scarce think this desecration shall ever come to pass: yet in
such matters one may not be sure of a nation which has permitted the spoiling (by the mutilation
of headlands and cliffs, for private gain) of a river the most storied in our own land, and
the most beautiful in the world.

NOTE 2 (Page 34).

In 1595 was published in London: "Vincentio Saviolo his Practise. In two Bookes. The first
intreating the use of the Rapier and Dagger. The second of Honour and Honourable Quarrels."
(Etc.) The celebrated swordsman sets forth only the Italian system, and has naught to say upon
the French. The book that Winwood studied may have been some reprint (now unknown), with notes
or additions by a later hand. In any case, he may have acquired through it sufficient rudimentary
acquaintance with some sort of practice to enable him to excite the French fencing-master's
interest.

NOTE 3 (Page 182).

"Lady Washington's Light Horse" was a name sometimes unofficially applied to Lieut.-Col. Baylor's
Dragoons. They were sleeping in a barn and outbuildings, at Old Tappan, one night in the Fall
of 1778, when they were surprised by General Grey, whose men, attacking with bayonets, killed
11, mangled 25, and took about 40 prisoners. Both Col. Baylor and Major Clough were wounded,
the latter fatally. It is of course this affair, to which Lieut. Russell's narrative alludes.

NOTE 4 (Page 191).

The Morris house, now known as the Jumel mansion, was half a generation old at the beginning
of the Revolution. Thither, as the bride of Captain Morris, a brother-officer of Washington's
in the old French war, went Mary Philipse; whom young Washington was said to have wooed while
he tarried in and about New York upon his memorable journey to Boston to solicit in vain, of
Governor Shirley, a king's commission. The Revolution found the Morrises on the side opposed
to Washington's; for a short time during the operations above New York in 1776 he occupied
this house of theirs as headquarters. They lost it through their allegiance to the royal cause,
all their American real estate being confiscated by the New York assembly. The mansion became
in time the residence of that remarkable woman who, from a barefoot girl in Providence, R.I.,
had grown up to be the wife of a Frenchman named Jumel; and to be the object of much admiration,
and the subject of some scandal. In her widowhood she received under this roof Aaron Burr,
after his duel with Hamilton (whose neighbouring country-house still exists, in Convent Avenue),
and under this roof she and Burr--both in their old age--were united in marriage. I imagine
that some of the ghosts that haunt this mansion, if they might be got in a corner, would yield
their interviewers a quaint reminiscence or two. The grounds appertaining to the house have
been sadly diminished by the opening of new streets; yet it is still a fine, striking landmark,
perched to be seen afar, as from the railroad trains that follow the East bank of the Harlem,
or, better, from West 155th Street at and about its junction with St. Nicholas Place and the
Speedway. At the time when I left New York for a temporary residence in the Old World, there
was talk of moving the house to a less commanding, but still eminent, height that crowns the
bluff rising from the Speedway: the owner was compelled, it was said, to avail himself of the
increased value of the land whereon it stood. 'Tis some pity if this has been, or has to be,
done; but nothing to the pity if the mansion had to be pulled down. Apart from all associations
and historical interest, this imposing specimen of our Colonial domestic architecture, so simple
and reposeful an edifice amidst a world of flat buildings, and of gew-gaw houses built for
sale on the instalment plan to the ubiquitous Mr. and Mrs. Veneering, is a precious relief,
nay an untiring delight, to the eye.

NOTE 5 (Page 202).

During this Winter (1779-80) the Continental army was in two main divisions. The one with which
Washington made his headquarters was hutted on the heights about Morristown, N.J. The other,
under General Heath, was stationed in the highlands of the Hudson. Intermediate territory,
of course, was more or less thoroughly guarded by detached posts, militia, and various forces
regular and irregular. The most of the cavalry was quartered in Connecticut; but Winwood's
troop, as our narrative shows, was established near Washington's headquarters. This was a memorably
cold Winter, and as severe upon the patriots as the more famous Winter (1777-78) at Valley
Forge. About the latter part of January the Hudson was frozen over, almost to its mouth.

NOTE 6 (Page 269).

Long before I fell upon Lieut. Russell's narrative, a detailed account of a British attempt
to capture Washington, by a bold night dash upon his quarters at Morristown, had caught my
eyes from the pages of the old "New Jersey Historical Collections." Washington was not the
only object of such designs during the War of Independence. One was planned for the seizure
of Governor Livingstone at his home in Elizabeth, N.J.; but, much to Sir Henry Clinton's disappointment,
that influential and witty champion of independence was not at home when the surprise party called.

NOTE 7 (Page 277).

Lieut-Gen. Knyphausen was now (January, 1780) temporarily in chief command at New York, as
Sir Henry Clinton and Lord Cornwallis had sailed South (December 26, 1779) to attack Charleston
and reduce South Carolina.

NOTE 8 (Page 311).

At that time, the Bristol and Bath stage-coaches took two days for the trip to London. Madge
doubtless would have slept a night or two at Bristol after her landing; and probably at the
Pelican Inn at Speenhamland (opposite Newbury), the usual midway sleeping-place, at the end
of the first day's ride. But bad weather may have hindered the journey, and required the passengers
to pass more than one night as inn-guests upon the road.

NOTE 9 (Page 325).

Mrs. Sheridan's surpassing beauty, talent, and amiability are well-known to all readers; as
is the fact that her brilliant husband, despite their occasional quarrels, was very much in
love with her from first to last.

NOTE 10 (Page 359).

Sir Ralph Winwood, born at Aynho, in Northamptonshire, in 1564, was frequently sent as envoy
to Holland in the reign of James I., by whom he was knighted in 1603. He was Secretary of State
from a date in 1614 till his death in 1617.

L.C. Page and Company's

Announcement of List of New Fiction.

Philip Winwood. WRITTEN BY HIS ENEMY IN WAR, HERBERT RUSSELL, LIEUTENANT IN THE LOYALIST FORCES.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 400 pages.                 $1.50

"One of the most stirring and remarkable romances that has been published in a long while,
and its episodes, incidents, and actions are as interesting and agreeable as they are vivid
and dramatic. . . . The print, illustrations, binding, etc., are worthy of the tale, and the
author and his publishers are to be congratulated on a literary work of fiction which is as
wholesome as it is winsome, as fresh and artistic as it is interesting and entertaining from
first to last paragraph."--Boston Times.

Breaking the Shackles. By FRANK BARRETT.

  Author of "A Set of Rogues."

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, gilt top, 350 pages.       $1.50

"The story opens well, and maintains its excellence throughout. . . . The author's triumph
is the greater in the unquestionable interest and novelty which he achieves. The pictures of
prison life are most vivid, and the story of the escape most thrilling."--The Freeman's Journal,
London.

The Progress of Pauline Kessler. By FREDERIC CARREL.

  Author of "Adventures of John Johns." A powerful sketch
of an adventuress who has much of the Becky Sharpe in her. The story
is crisply written and told with directness and insight into the ways
of social and political life. The characters are strong types of the
class to which they belong.

Ada Vernham, Actress. By RICHARD MARSH.

  Author of "Frivolities," "Tom Ossington's Ghost," etc.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, gilt top, 300 pages.      .$1.50

This is a new book by the author of "Frivolities," which was extremely well received last season.
It deals with the inside life of the London stage, and is of absorbing interest.

The Wallet of Kai Lung. By ERNEST BRAMAH. It deals with the fortunes of a Chinese professional
storyteller, who meets with many surprising adventures. The style suggests somewhat the rich
Oriental coloring of the Arabian Nights.

Edward Barry: SOUTH SEA PEARLER. By LOUIS BECKE.

  Author of "By Reef and Palm," "Ridan, the Devil," etc.

  With four full-page illustrations by H.C. Edwards.

This is the first complete novel from the pen of Mr. Becke, and readers of his collections
of short stories will quickly recognize that the author can write a novel that will grip the
reader. Strong, and even tragic, as is his novel in the main, "Edward Barry" has a happy ending,
and woman's love and devotion are strongly portrayed.

Unto the Heights of Simplicity. By JOHANNES REIMERS.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 300 pages.                 $1.25

We take pleasure in introducing to the reading public a writer of unique charm and individuality.
His style is notable for its quaint poetic idiom and subtle imaginative flavor. In the present
story, he treats with strength and reticence of the relation of the sexes and the problem of
marriage. Certain social abuses and false standards of morality are attacked with great vigor,
yet the plot is so interesting for its own sake that the book gives no suspicion of being a
problem novel. The descriptions of natural scenery are idyllic in their charm, and form a fitting
background for the love story.

The Black Terror. A ROMANCE OF RUSSIA. By JOHN K. LEYS.

  With frontispiece by Victor A. Searles.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 350 pages.                 $1.50

A stirring tale of the present day, presenting in a new light the aims and objects of the Nihilists.
The story is so vivid and true to life that it might easily be considered a history of political
intrigue in Russia, disguised as a novel, while its startling incidents and strange denouement
would only confirm the old adage that "truth is stranger than fiction," and that great historical
events may be traced to apparently insignificant causes. The hero of the story is a young Englishman,
whose startling resemblance to the Czar is taken advantage of by the Nihilists for the furtherance
of their plans.

The Baron's Sons. By MAURUS JOKAI.

  Author of "Black Diamonds," "The Green Book," "Pretty Michal," etc.
  Translated by Percy F. Bicknell.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, with photogravure portrait of the
  author, 350 pages.                                         $1.50

An exceedingly interesting romance of the revolution of 1848, the scene of which is laid at
the courts of St. Petersburg, Moscow, and Vienna, and in the armies of the Austrians and Hungarians.
It follows the fortunes of three young Hungarian noblemen, whose careers are involved in the
historical incidents of the time. The story is told with all of Jokai's dash and vigor, and
is exceedingly interesting. This romance has been translated for us directly from the Hungarian,
and never has been issued hitherto in English.

Slaves of Chance. By FERRIER LANGWORTHY.

  With five portraits of the heroines, from original drawings by
  Hiel. The slaves of chance, and, it might be added, of
temptation, are five pretty girls, the daughters of a pretty widow,
whose means are scarcely sufficient, even living as they do, in a
quiet way and in a quiet London street, to make both ends meet.
Dealing, as he does, with many sides of London life, the writer
sketches varied types of character, and his creations are cleverly
defined. He tells an interesting tale with delicacy and in a fresh,
attractive style.

Her Boston Experiences. By MARGARET ALLSTON (nom de plume).

  With eighteen full-page illustrations from drawings by Frank O.
  Small, and from photographs taken especially for the book.

  Small 12mo, cloth decorative, gilt top, 225 pages.         $1.25

A most interesting and vivacious tale, dealing with society life at the Hub, with perhaps a
tinge of the flavor of Vagabondia. The story has appeared serially in The Ladies' Home Journal,
where it was received with marked success. We are not as yet at liberty to give the true name
of the author, who hides her identity under the pen name, Margaret Allston, but she is well
known in literature.

Memory Street. By MARTHA BAKER DUNN.

  Author of "The Sleeping Beauty," etc.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 300 pages.                 $1.25

An exceedingly beautiful story, delineating New England life and character. The style and interest
will compare favorably with the work of such writers as Mary E. Wilkins, Kate Douglas Wiggin,
and Sarah Orne Jewett. The author has been a constant contributor to the leading magazines,
and the interest of her previous work will assure welcome for her first novel.

Winifred. A STORY OF THE CHALK CLIFFS. By S. BARING GOULD.

  Author of "Mehala," etc.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, 350 pages.    $1.50

A striking novel of English life in the eighteenth century by this well known writer. The scene
is laid partly in rural Devonshire, and partly in aristocratic London circles.

At the Court of the King: BEING ROMANCES OF FRANCE. By G. HEMBERT WESTLEY, editor of "For Love's
Sweet Sake."

  With a photogravure frontispiece from an original drawing.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 300 pages.                 $1.25

Despite the prophecies of some literary experts, the historical romance is still on the high
tide of popular favor, as exemplified by many recent successes. We feel justified, consequently,
in issuing these stirring romances of intrigue and adventure, love and war, at the Courts of
the French Kings.

God's Rebel. By HULBERT FULLER.

  Author of "Vivian of Virginia."

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 375 pages.                 $1.25

A powerful story of sociological questions. The scene is laid in Chicago, the hero being a
professor in "Rockland University," whose protest against the unequal distribution of wealth
and the wretched condition of workmen gains for him the enmity of the "Savior Oil Company,"
through whose influence he loses his position. His after career as a leader of laborers who
are fighting to obtain their rights is described with great earnestness. The character drawing
is vigorous and varied, and the romantic plot holds the interest throughout. The Albany Journal
is right in pronouncing this novel "an unusually strong story." It can hardly fail to command
an immense reading public.

A Georgian Actress. By PAULINE BRADFORD MACKIE.

  Author of "Mademoiselle de Berny," "Ye Lyttle Salem Maide," etc.

  With four full-page illustrations from drawings by E.W.D. Hamilton. The success of Miss
Mackie's previous books will justify our prediction that a new volume
will receive an instant welcome.

God--The King--My Brother. A ROMANCE. By MARY F. NIXON.

  Author of "With a Pessimist in Spain," "A Harp of Many Chords," etc.

  With a frontispiece by H.C. Edwards.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 300 pages.                 $1.25

An historical tale, dealing with the romantic period of Edward the Black Prince. The scene
is laid for the most part in the sunny land of Spain, during the reign of Pedro the Cruel--the
ally in war of the Black Prince. The well-told story records the adventures of two young English
knight-errants, twin brothers, whose family motto gives the title to the book. The Spanish
maid, the heroine of the romance, is a delightful characterization, and the love story, with
its surprising yet logical dénouement, is enthralling.

Punchinello. By FLORENCE STUART.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, gilt top, 325 pages.       $1.50

A love story of intense power and pathos. The hero is a hunchback (Punchinello), who wins the
love of a beautiful young girl. Her sudden death, due indirectly to his jealousy, and the discovery
that she had never faltered in her love for him, combine to unbalance his mind. The poetic
style relieves the sadness of the story, and the reader is impressed with the power and brilliancy
of its conception, as well as with the beauty and grace of the execution.

The Golden Fleece. Translated from the French of Amédée Achard, author of "The Huguenot's Love,"
etc.

  Illustrated by Victor A. Searles.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated, 450 pages.    $1.50

Amédée Achard was a contemporary writer of Dumas, and his romances are very similar to those
of that great writer. "The Golden Fleece" compares favorably with "The Three Musketeers" and
the other D'Artagnan romances. The story relates the adventures of a young Gascon gentleman,
an officer in the army sent by Louis XIV. to assist the Austrians in repelling the Turkish
Invasion under the celebrated Achmet Kiuperli.

The Good Ship York. By W. CLARK RUSSELL.

"Mr. Russell has no rival in the line of marine fiction."--Mail and Express.

Tom Ossington's Ghost. By RICHARD MARSH.

  Author of "Frivolities," "Ada Vernham, Actress," etc. Illustrated
  by Harold Pifford.

"An entrancing book, but people with weak nerves had better not read it at night."--To-day.

"Mr. Marsh has been inspired by an entirely original idea, and has worked it out with great
ingenuity. We like the weird but not repulsive story better than anything he has ever done."--World.

The Glory and Sorrow of Norwich. By M.M. BLAKE.

  Author of "The Blues and the Brigands," etc., etc., with twelve
  full-page illustrations.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, gilt top, 315 pages.       $1.50

The hero of this romance, Sir John de Reppes, is an actual personage, and throughout the characters
and incidents are instinct with the spirit of the age, as related in the chronicles of Froissart.
Its main claim for attention, however, is in the graphic representation of the age of chivalry
which it gives, forming a series of brilliant and fascinating pictures of mediæval England,
its habits of thought and manner of life, which live in the mind for many a day after perusal,
and assist to a clearer conception of what is one of the most charming and picturesque epochs
of history.

The Mistress of Maidenwood. By HULBERT FULLER.

Dauntless. A TALE OF A LOST CAUSE. By CAPTAIN EWAN MARTIN.

  Author of "The Knight of King's Guard."

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 400 pages, illustrated.    $1.50

A stirring romance of the days of Charles I. and Cromwell in England and Ireland. In its general
character the book invites comparison with Scott's "Waverley." It well sustains the reputation
gained by Captain Martin from "The Knight of King's Guard."

The Flame Of Life. (IL FUOCO.) Translated from the Italian of Gabriel D'Annunzio, author of
"Triumph of Death," etc., by KASSANDRA VIVARIA, author of "Via Lucis."

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative, 350 pages.                 $1.50

