Ex-parte judgments will not go in the future history, for the black man will not only act his
history but he will write it, and be it said that he knows history methods, and that with him
they are not those which come from the heat of prejudice and a direct and concerted attempt
to discredit any group of American people.

Unpatriotic and unwarranted statements do no good and lull the country to sleep, and throw
it off its guard while the effects of these statements are causing just rankling in the breasts
of the Negro people who have had a New Vision.

The Negro officers know the psychology of their own race and also of the white race; but it
is to be feared the latter will never know the mind and motive forces of the Negro, if he imagines
that his group has not had a new birth in America, whose language it speaks, whose thought
it thinks for its own betterment, and whose ideals, both social, political, and economic it
emulates.

Out of war's crucible new nations emerge. New ideas seize mankind and if the conflict has been
a just one, waged for exalted ideals and imperishable principles and not alone for mere national
security and integrity, a new character, a broader national vision is formed.

Such was the result of the early wars for democracy. The seeds of universal freedom once sown,
finally ripened not alone to the unshackling of a race, but to the fecundity and birth of a
spirit that moved all nations and peoples to seek an enlarged liberty. The finger of disintegration
and change is never still; is always on the move; always the old order is passing; always the
new, although unseen of man, is coming on. And so it is, that nations are still in the throes
of reconstruction after the great war. That it was the greatest and most terrible of all wars,
increases the difficulties incident to the establishment of the new order, precedent to a restoration
of tranquil conditions.

So radical were some of the results of the conflict, such as the overthrow of despotism in
Russia, and a swinging completely to the other extreme of the pendulum; similar happenings
in Germany and Austria transpiring, that subject peoples in general, finding themselves in
possession of a liberty which they did not expect and were not prepared for, are in a sense
bewildered; put to it, as to just what steps to take; the wisest course to pursue.

At home we have a nearer view and can begin to see emerging a new America. The men who fought
abroad will be the dominant factor in national affairs for many years. These men have returned,
and will return with a broadened vision and with new and enlarged ideas regarding themselves
and, quite to be expected, of progress and human rights.

With the leaven of thought which has been working at home, added to the new and illuminating;
more liberal viewpoint regarding the Negro attained by the American whites who served with
him in France, will come; is already born, a new national judgment and charity of opinion and
treatment, that will not abate; will grow and flourish through the coming years, a belated
sense of justice and restitution due the Negro; a most wholesome sign of shame and repentance
upon the part of the nation. The old order based on slavery and environment; the handicap of
"previous condition" has passed. Will never return! THAT, or the "Fatherhood of God and Brotherhood
of Man" is, and always was, an iridescent dream; a barren ideality!

The new America owes much of its life to the Negro; guaranteed through centuries of a devotion,
than which, there has been nothing like it; you seek in vain for a counterpart; a patriotism
and suffering and shed blood; the splendor and unselfishness of which will germinate and flower
through the ages; as long as history shall be read; to the last moment of recorded time.

In days to come, now on the way, men will say, one to another: "How could it have been that
those faithful Blacks; those loyal citizens; whose toil enriched; whose blood guaranteed the
perpetuity of our institutions; were discriminated against--WRONGED?"

In a country based and governed on the principle that all men are free and equal, discrimination
or special privilege will eat at the heart of national life. Capital must not have special
advantages over labor; neither labor over capital. Jew and Gentile, protestant and catholic,
Negro and White men, must be equal; not alone in the spirit of the law but in the application
of it. Not alone in the spirit of industrialism, commerce and ordinary affairs of life, but
in their interpretation and application as well.

Social discriminations and distinctions may prevail with no great danger to the body politic,
so long as people do not take them too seriously--do not mistake the shadow for the substance,
and regard them the paramount things of life.

Obviously the Negro no less than the Caucasian, has a right, and no government may challenge
it, to say who his associates shall be, who he shall invite into his house, but such rights
are misconstrued and exceeded when carried to the point of proscribing, oppressing or hampering
the development of other men, regardless of the nationality of their competitors.

The logical growth of achievement for the Negro is first within the lines of his own race,
but, all things being equal; genius being the handmaiden of no particular race or clime, he
is not to be hindered by the law of the land, the prejudice of sections or individuals, from
seeking to climb to any height.

The bugbear and slander, raised and kept alive by that section of the land south of the imaginary
line, to wit: that the Negro was ambitious for "racial equality," only is entitled to reference
in these pages for the purpose of according it the contempt due it. That the whites of the
country have not a complete monopoly of those unpleasing creatures known as "tuft hunters"
and "social climbers," is no doubt true, but that the Negro, as represented by intelligence
and race pride, ever worries over it; cares a rap for it, is not true.

Humanity's great benefit coming from the war, which cannot be changed or abridged, will consist
of a newer, broader sense of manhood; a demand for the inherent opportunities and rights belonging
to it; for all men of all colors, of all climes; and beyond that; of more significance; as
marking the dawn indeed of a NEW AND BETTER DAY, will be a larger, juster sense; springing
up in the nation's heart; watered by her tears, of repentance of past wrongs inflicted on the
Negro. The Negro will become the architect of his own growth and development. The South will
not be permitted; through the force of national opinion, to continue to oppress him.

The talk of the revival of KuKlux societies to intimidate the Negro; "to keep him in his place,"
is the graveyard yawp of a dying monster. Are the thousands of Negroes who faced bullets in
the most disastrous war of history, and several hundred thousand more who were ready and willing
to undergo the same perils, likely to be frightened by such a threat, such an antiquated, silly,
short-sighted piece of injustice and terrorism?

Men's necessities force a resort to common sense. Racial prejudice and ignorant, contemptible
intolerance, must disappear under, and before the presence of the renewal of business activity
in the South, and the necessity for Negro labor. Each soldier returning from Europe is a more
enlightened man than when he went away. He has had the broadening effect of travel, the chance
to mingle with other races and acquire the views born of a greater degree of equality and more
generous treatment.

These men desire to remain in their southern homes. Climatically they are suited and the country
offers them employment to which they are accustomed; but more than all, it is home, and they
are bound to it by ties of association and affection.

With a mutual desire of whites and blacks to achieve an end, common sense will find a basis
of agreement. The Negro will get better pay and better treatment. His status accordingly will
be improved. His employer will get better service, he also will be broadened and improved by
a new spirit of tolerance and charity.

Cooperation among the white and black races received a decided impetus during the war. A movement
so strongly started is sure to gather force until it attains the objects more desirious of
accomplishment. Some of these objects undoubtedly are far in the distance, but will be achieved
in time. When they are, the Negro will be far advanced on the road of racial development. The
day has dawned and the start has been made. Before the noontime, America will be prouder of
her Negro citizens and will be a happier, a more inspired and inspiring nation; a better home
for all her people.

One of the results of the war will be an improvement in the government and condition of Negroes
in Africa. Exploitation of the race for European aggrandisement is sure to be lessened. No
such misgoverned colonies as those of Germany will be tolerated under the new rule and the
new spirit actuating the victorious Allies. Evils in other sections of that continent will
disappear or receive positive amelioration.

The most hopeful sign in America is the tendency in some sections where trouble has been prevalent
in the past, to meet and discuss grievances. In some sections of the South, men of prominence
are exhibiting a willingness to meet and talk over matters with representatives of the race.
Such a spirit of tolerance will grow and eventually lead to a better understanding; perhaps
a general reconciling of differences.

Many concessions will be required before complete justice prevails and the Negro comes into
his own; before the soil can be prepared for the complete flowering of his spirit.

Primarily, before attaining to the full growth and usefulness of the citizen under the rights
guaranteed to him by the Constitution, the Negro, especially in the South, will require better
educational facilities. If he is to become a better citizen, he must have the education and
training necessary to know the full duties of citizenship. He pays his share of the school
taxes and it is manifestly unjust to deny him the accruing benefits.

He is ambitious too, and should be encouraged to own land, and to that end should have the
assistance without prejudice or discrimination, of national and state farm loan bureaus.

Unjust suffrage restrictions must and shall be removed, giving to the Negro the full rights
of other citizens in this respect. With better educational facilities and the ownership of
real estate, he will vote more intelligently, and there will be no danger that his vote will
be against the interests of the country at large or the section in which he resides.

The withering taint of "Jim Crow"-ism, must be obliterated; wiped out--will be. Railroads will
be compelled to extend the same accommodations to white and colored passengers. The traveller;
whatever his color, who pays the price for a ticket, must and shall in this land of Equality
and Justice, be accorded the same accommodations.

Peonage, so-called, will end. It cannot endure under an awakened, enlightened public opinion.
Negroes, all other things equal, will be admitted to labor unions, or labor unions will lose
the potentiality and force they should wield in labor and industrial affairs.

The Negro's contribution to the recent war and to previous conflicts, has earned him beyond
question or challenge, a right to just consideration in the military and naval establishment
of the nation. America, grudging as she has been in the past to enlarge his rights, or even
to guarantee those which she has granted, has grown too great indeed. Her discipline has been
too real to deny him this fair consideration. There will be more Negro units in the Regular
Army and National Guard organizations; untrammelled facilities for training, in government,
state and college institutions.

Selective draft figures having revealed the Negro as a better; if not the best, physical risk,
will make it easier for him to secure life insurance, which; after all is a plain business
proposition. Insurance companies are after business and are not concerned with racial distinctions
where the risk is good. The draft has furnished figures regarding the Negro's health and longevity
which hitherto were not available to insurance actuaries. Now that they have them, no reason
exists for denying insurance facilities to the race.

With a growing, every minute, of a better understanding between the races; with the Negro learning
thrift through Liberty Bonds, Savings Stamps and the lessons of the war; with an encouragement
to own property and take out insurance; being vastly enlightened through his military service,
and with improved industrial conditions about to appear, he is started on a better road, to
end only when he shall have reached the full attainment belonging to the majesty of AMERICAN
CITIZENSHIP.

With this start, lynchings, the law's delays, the denial of full educational advantages; segregation,
insanitary conditions, unjust treatment in reform and penal institutions, will vanish from
before him; will be conditions that were, but are no more.

There is a predominance of Anglo-Saxon heritage in the white blood of America. The Anglo-Saxon
was the first to establish fair play and make it his shibboleth. Should he deny it to the Negro;
his proudest and most vaunted principle would prove to be a doddering lie; a shimmering evanescence.

HE WILL NOT DENY IT!

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE--UP TO THIS POINT THE TEXT FACES ONLY HAVE BEEN NUMBERED. THE 64 FULL PAGES OF HALF-TONE
PHOTOGRAPHS (OVER 100 SEPARATE PICTURES) AND THE PLATES, TINTED IN MANY COLORS (NOT PRINTED
ON BACK) BRING THE TOTAL NUMBER OF PAGES TO OVER FOUR HUNDRED.

THE PEACE TREATY

The treaty of peace was drawn by the allied and associated powers at Versailles, and was there
delivered to the German Government's delegation on May 5, 1919--the fourth anniversary of the
Lusitania sinking.

It stipulates in the preamble that war will have ceased when all powers have signed and the
treaty shall have come into force by ratification of the signatures.

It names as party of the one part the United States, The British Empire, France, Italy, Japan,
described as the five allied and associated powers, and Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Cuba,
Equador, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, the Hedjaz, Honduras, Liberia, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru,
Portugal, Roumania, Serbia, Siam, Czecho-Slovakia and Uruguay; and on the other side Germany.

The treaty contains agreements in substance as follows:

Section 1.

Membership--The members of the league will be the signatories of the covenant, and other states
invited to accede. A state may withdraw upon giving two years' notice, if it has fulfilled
all its international obligations.

Section 2. A permanent secretariat will be established at Geneva. The league will meet at stated
intervals. Each state will have one vote and not more than three representatives. It will meet
at least once a year. Voting will be by states. Each state will have one vote and not more
than one representative. If agreement cannot be secured, the members reserve the right to take
such action as may be necessary for the maintenance of right and justice. Members resorting
to war in disregard of the covenant will immediately be debarred from all intercourse with
other members. The council will in such cases consider what military or naval action can be
taken by the league collectively.

The Mandatory System--Nations not yet able to stand by themselves will be intrusted to advanced
nations who are best fitted to guide them. In every case the mandatory will render an annual
report, and the degree of its authority will be defined.

Section 3. Belgium--Germany consents to the abrogation of the treaties of 1839 by which Belgium
was established as a neutral state, and agrees to any convention with which the allied and
associated powers may determine to replace them.

Luxemburg--Germany renounces her various treaties and conventions with the grand duchy of Luxemburg,
and recognizes that it ceased to be a part of the German zolverein from January 1,1919, and
renounces all right of exploitation of the railroads.

Political condemnations during the war are null and void and the obligation to repay war fines
is established as in other parts of allied territory.

Section 4.

Danzig--Danzig and the district immediately about it is to be constituted into the free city
of Danzig under the guaranty of the league of nations.

Denmark--The frontier between Germany and Denmark will be fixed by the self-determination of
the population.

Russia--Germany agrees to respect as permanent and inalienable the independence of all territories
which were part of the former Russian empire, to accept abrogation of the Brest-Litovsk and
other treaties entered into with the Maximalist government of Russia, to recognize the full
force of all treaties entered into by the allied and associated powers with states which were
a part of the former Russian empire, and to recognize the frontiers as determined therein.
The allied and associated powers formally reserve the right of Russia to obtain restitution
and reparation of the principles of the present treaty.

SECTION 5. German Rights Outside of Europe--Outside Europe, Germany renounces all rights, title
and privileges as to her own or her allied territories, to all the allied and associated powers.

German Colonies--Germany renounces in favor of the allied and associated powers her overseas
possessions with all rights and titles therein. All movable and immovable property belonging
to the German empire or to any German state shall pass to the government exercising authority
therein. Germany undertakes to pay reparation for damage suffered by French nationals in the
Kameruns or its frontier zone through the acts of German civil and military authorities and
of individual Germans from January 1, 1900, to August 1, 1914.

China--Germany renounces in favor of China all privileges and indemnities resulting from the
Boxer protocol of 1901, and all buildings, wharves, barracks, forts, munitions or warships,
wireless plants, and other property (except diplomatic) in the German concessions of Tientsin
and Hankow and in other Chinese territory except Kiaochow, and agrees to return to China at
her own expense all the astronomical instruments seized in 1901. Germany accepts the abrogation
of the concessions of Hankow and Tientsin, China agreeing to open them to international use.

Siam--Germany recognizes that all agreements between herself and Siam, including the right
of extra territory, ceased July 22, 1917. All German public property except consular and diplomatic
premises passes, without compensation, to Siam.

Liberia--Germany renounces all rights under the international arrangements of 1911 and 1912
regarding Liberia.

Morocco--Germany renounces all her rights, titles and privileges under the act of Algeciras
and the Franco-German agreements of 1909 and 1911 and under all treaties and arrangements with
the sheriffian empire. All movable and immovable German property may be sold at public auction,
the proceeds to be paid to the sheriffian government and deducted from the reparation account.

Egypt--Germany recognizes the British protectorate over Egypt declared on December 19, 1914,
and transfers to Great Britain the powers given to the late sultan of Turkey for securing the
free navigation of the Suez canal.

Turkey and Bulgaria--Germany accepts all arrangements which the allied and associated powers
make with Turkey and Bulgaria with reference to any right, privileges or interests claimed
in those countries by Germany or her nationals and not dealt with elsewhere.

Shantung--Germany cedes to Japan all rights, titles and privileges acquired by her treaty with
China of March 6, 1897, and other agreements, as to Shantung. All German state property in
Kiaochow is acquired by Japan free of all charges.

SECTION 6. The demobilization of the German army must take place within two months.

Armaments--All establishments for the manufacturing, preparation or storage of arms and munitions
of war, must be closed, and their personnel dismissed. The manufacture or importation of poisonous
gases is forbidden as well as the importation of arms, munitions and war material.

Conscription--Conscription is abolished in Germany. All measures of mobilization are forbidden.

All fortified and field works within fifty kilometers (thirty miles) east of the Rhine will
be dismantled. The construction of any new fortifications there is forbidden.

Control--Interallied commissions of control will see to the execution of the provisions, for
which a time limit is set, the maximum named being three months. Germany must give them complete
facilities, and pay for the labor and material necessary in demolition, destruction or surrender
of war equipment.

Naval--The German navy must be demobilized within a period of two months. All German vessels
of war in foreign ports, and the German high sea fleet interned at Scapa Flow will be surrendered,
the final disposition of these ships to be decided upon by the allied and associated powers.

Germany is required to sweep up the mines in the North sea and the Baltic. German fortifications
in the Baltic must be demolished.

During a period of three months after the peace, German high power wireless stations at Nauen,
Hanover and Berlin, will not be permitted to send any messages except for commercial purposes.

Air--The armed forces of Germany must not include any military or naval air forces except one
hundred unarmed seaplanes. The manufacture of aircraft and parts of aircraft is forbidden.
All military and aeronautical material must be surrendered.

The repatriation of German prisoners and interned civilians is to be carried out without delay
and at Germany's expense.

Both parties will respect and maintain the graves of soldiers and sailors buried on their territories.

SECTION 7. Reparation--Germany accepts responsibility for all loss and damages to which civilians
of the allies have been subjected by the war, and agrees to compensate them. Germany binds
herself to repay all sums borrowed by Belgium from the Allies. Germany irrevocably recognizes
the authority of a reparation commission named by the Allies to enforce and supervise these
payments. She further agrees to restore to the Allies cash and certain articles which can be
identified. As an immediate step toward restoration, Germany shall pay within two years $5,000,000,000
in either gold, goods, ships or other specific forms of payment.

The measures which the allied and associated powers shall have the right to take, in case of
voluntary default by Germany, and which Germany agrees not to regard as acts of war, may include
economic and financial prohibitions and reprisals and in general such other measures as the
respective governments may determine to be necessary in the circumstances.

The commission may require Germany to give from time to time, by way of guaranty, issues of
bonds or other obligations to cover such claims as are not otherwise satisfied.

SECTION 8.

Coal--Germany is to deliver annually for ten years to France coal equivalent to the difference
between annual pre-war output of Nord and Pas de Calais mines and annual production during
above ten year period. Germany further gives options over ten years for delivery of 7,000,000
tons coal per year to France, in addition to the above, of 8,000,000 tons to Belgium, and of
an amount rising from 4,500,000 tons in 1919 to 1920 to 8,500,000 tons in 1923 to 1924 to Italy,
at prices to be fixed as prescribed. Coke may be taken in place of coal in ratio of three tons
to four.

Dyestuffs and Drugs--Germany accords option to the commission on dyestuffs and chemical drugs,
including quinine, up to 50 per cent of total stock to Germany at the time the treaty comes
into force, and similar option during each six months to end of 1924 up to 25 per cent of previous
six months' output.

Cables--Germany renounces all title to specific cables, value of such as were privately owned
being credited to her against reparation indebtedness.

SECTION 9.

Contracts--Pre-war contracts between allied and associated nations, excepting the United States,
Japan and Brazil, and German nationals, are canceled except for debts for accounts already
performed.

Opium--The contracting powers agree, whether or not they have signed and ratified the opium
convention of January 23, 1912, or signed the special protocol opened at The Hague in accordance
with resolutions adopted by the third opium conference in 1914, to bring the said convention
into force by enacting within twelve months of the time of peace the necessary legislation.

Missions--The allied and associated powers agree that the properties of religious missions
in territories belonging or ceded to them shall continue in their work under the control of
the powers, Germany renouncing all claims in their behalf.

SECTION 11. Air Navigation--Aircraft of the allied and associated powers shall have full liberty
of passage and landing over and in German territory; equal treatment with German planes as
to use of German airdromes, and with most favored nation planes as to internal commercial traffic
in Germany.

(The remainder of Section 12 concerns the use of European waterways and railroads.)

SECTION 13. Each government may either enact the terms into law; approve the principles, but
modify them to local needs; leave the actual legislation in case of a federal state to local
legislatures; or reject the convention altogether without further obligation.

The international labor office is established at the seat of the league of nations as part
of its organization. It is to collect and distribute information on labor through the world
and prepare agents for the conference. It will publish a periodical in French and English and
possibly other languages. Each state agrees to make to it, for presentation to the conference,
an annual report of measures taken to execute accepted conventions. The governing body is its
executive. It consists of twenty-four members, twelve representing the government, six the
employers and six the employes, to serve for three years.

On complaint that any government has failed to carry out a convention to which it is a party
the governing body may make inquiries directly to that government and in case the reply is
unsatisfactory may publish the complaint with comment. A complaint by one government against
another may be referred by the governing body to a commission of inquiry nominated by the secretary-general
of the league. If the commission report fails to bring satisfactory action, the matter may
be taken to a permanent court of international justice for final decision. The chief reliance
for securing enforcement of the law will be publicity with a possibility of economic action
in the background.

SECTION 14. If before the expiration of the fifteen years Germany complies with all the treaty
undertakings, the occupying forces will be withdrawn.

Eastern Europe--All German troops at present in territories to the east of the new frontier
shall return as soon as the allied and associated governments deem wise.

SECTION 15.

The treaty is to become effective in all respects for each power on the date of deposition
of its ratification.