The King and Queen of Prussia soon after joined their Imperial Majesties at Tilsit; though
this unfortunate monarch, to whom there remained hardly one town of the whole kingdom he had
possessed, was naturally little disposed to take part in so much festivity.  The queen was
beautiful and graceful, though perhaps somewhat haughty and severe, which did not prevent her
being adored by all who surrounded her.  The Emperor sought to please her, and she neglected
none of the innocent coquetries of her sex in order to soften the heart of the conqueror of
her husband.  The queen several times dined with the sovereigns, seated between the two Emperors,
who vied with each other in overwhelming her with attentions and gallantries.  It is well known
that the Emperor Napoleon offered her one day a splendid rose, which after some hesitation
she accepted, saying to his Majesty with a most charming smile, "With Magdeburg, at least."
And it is well known also that the Emperor did not accept the condition.

The princess had among her ladies of honor a very old woman, who was most highly esteemed.
One evening as the queen was being escorted into the dining-hall by the two Emperors, followed
by the King of Prussia, Prince Murat, and the Grand Duke Constantine, this old lady of honor
gave way to the two latter princes.  Grand Duke Constantine would not take precedence of her,
but entirely spoiled this act of politeness by exclaiming in a rude tone, "Pass, madame, pass
on!"  And turning towards the King of Naples, added, loud enough to be heard, this disgraceful
exclamation, "The old woodcock!"

One may judge from this that Prince Constantine was far from exhibiting towards ladies that
exquisite politeness and refined gallantry which distinguished his august brother.

The French Imperial Guard on one occasion gave a dinner to the guard of the Emperor Alexander.
At the end of this exceedingly gay and fraternal banquet, each French soldier exchanged uniforms
with a Russian, and promenaded thus before the eyes of the Emperors, who were much amused by
this impromptu disguise.

Among the numerous attentions paid by the Russian Emperor to our own, I would mention a concert
by a troop of Baskir musicians, whom their sovereign brought over the Niemen for this purpose,
and never certainly did more barbarous music resound in the ears of his Majesty; and this strange
harmony, accompanied by gestures equally as savage, furnished one of the most amusing spectacles
that can be imagined.  A few days after this concert, I obtained permission to make the musicians
a visit, and went to their camp, accompanied by Roustan, who was to serve as interpreter. 
We enjoyed the pleasure of being present at a repast of the Baskirs, where around immense wooden
tubs were seated groups consisting of ten men, each holding in his hand a piece of black bread
which he moistened with a ladleful of water, in which had been diluted something resembling
red clay.  After the repast, they gave us an exhibition of shooting with the bow; and Roustan,
to whom this exercise recalled the scenes of his youth, attempted to shoot an arrow, but it
fell at a few paces, and I saw a smile of scorn curl the thick lips of our Baskirs.  I then
tried the bow in my turn, and acquitted myself in such a manner as to do me honor in the eyes
of our hosts, who instantly surrounded me, congratulating me by their gestures on my strength
and skill; and one of them, even more enthusiastic and more amicable than the others, gave
me a pat on the shoulder which I long remembered.

The day succeeding this famous concert, the treaty of peace between the three sovereigns was
signed, and his Majesty made a visit to the Emperor Alexander, who received him at the head
of his guard.  The Emperor Napoleon asked his illustrious ally to show him the bravest grenadier
of this handsome and valiant troop; and when he was presented to his Majesty, he took from
his breast his own cross of the Legion of Honor, and fastened it on the breast of the Muscovite
soldier, amid the acclamations and hurrahs of all his comrades.  The two Emperors embraced
each other a last time on the banks of the Niemen, and his Majesty set out on the road to Koenigsberg.

At Bautzen the King of Saxony came out to meet him, and their Majesties entered Dresden together.
King Frederick Augustus gave a most magnificent reception to the sovereign who, not content
with giving him a scepter, had also considerably increased the hereditary estates of the elector
of Saxony.  The good people of Dresden, during the week we passed there, treated the French
more as brothers and compatriots than as allies.

But it was nearly ten months since we had left Paris; and in spite of all the charms of the
simple and cordial hospitality of the Germans, I was very eager to see again France and my
own family.

CHAPTER III.

It was during the glorious campaign of Prussia and Poland that the imperial family was plunged
in the deepest sorrow by the death of the young Napoleon, eldest son of King Louis of Holland.
This child bore a striking resemblance to his father, and consequently to his uncle.  His hair
was blond, but would probably have darkened as he grew older.  His eyes, which were large and
blue, shone with extraordinary brilliancy when a deep impression was made on his young mind.
Gentle, lovable, and full of candor and gayety, he was the delight of the Emperor, especially
on account of the firmness of his character, which was so remarkable that, notwithstanding
his extreme youth, nothing could make him break his word. The following anecdote which I recall
furnishes an instance of this.

He was very fond of strawberries; but they caused him such long and frequent attacks of vomiting
that his mother became alarmed, and positively forbade his eating them, expressing a wish that
every precaution should be taken to keep out of the young prince's sight a fruit which was
so injurious to him.  The little Napoleon, whom the injurious effects of the strawberries had
not disgusted with them, was surprised to no more see his favorite dish; but bore the deprivation
patiently, until one day he questioned his nurse, and very seriously demanded an explanation
on this subject, which the good woman was unable to give, for she indulged him even to the
point of spoiling him.  He knew her weakness, and often took advantage of it, as in this instance
for example.  He became angry, and said to his nurse in a tone which had as much and even more
effect on her than the Emperor or the King of Holland could have had, "I will have the strawberries.
Give them to me at once." The poor nurse begged him to be quiet, and said that she would give
them to him, but she was afraid that if anything happened he would tell the queen who had done
this.  "Is that all?" replied Napoleon eagerly. "Have no fear; I promise not to tell."

The nurse yielded, and the strawberries had their usual effect.  The queen entered while he
was undergoing the punishment for his self- indulgence; and he could not deny that he had eaten
the forbidden fruit, as the proofs were too evident.  The queen was much incensed, and wished
to know who had disobeyed her; she alternately entreated and threatened the child, who still
continued to reply with the greatest composure, "I promised not to tell."  And in spite of
the great influence she had over him, she could not force him to tell her the name of the guilty
person.

Young Napoleon was devoted to his uncle, and manifested in his presence a patience and self-control
very foreign to his usual character.  The Emperor often took him on his knee during breakfast,
and amused himself making him eat lentils one by one.  The pretty face of the child became
crimson, his whole countenance manifested disgust and impatience; but his Majesty could prolong
this sport without fearing that his nephew would become angry, which he would have infallibly
done with any one else.

At such a tender age could he have been conscious of his uncle's superiority to all those who
surrounded him?  King Louis, his father, gave him each day a new plaything, chosen exactly
to suit his fancy: but the child preferred those he received from his uncle; and when his father
said to him,  But, see here, Napoleon, those are ugly things; mine are prettier."--"No," said
the young prince, "they are very nice; my uncle gave them to me."

One morning when he visited his Majesty, he crossed a saloon where amid many great personages
was Prince Murat, at that time, I think, Grand Duke of Berg.  The child passed through without
saluting any one, when the prince stopped him and said, "Will you not tell me goodmorning?"--"No,"
replied Napoleon, disengaging himself from the arms of the Grand Duke; "not before my uncle
the Emperor."

At the end of a review which had taken place in the court of the Tuileries, and on the Place
du Carrousel, the Emperor went up to his apartments, and threw his hat on one sofa, his sword
on another.  Little Napoleon entered, took his uncle's sword, passed the belt round his neck,
put the hat on his head, and then kept step gravely, humming a march behind the Emperor and
Empress.  Her Majesty, turning round, saw him, and caught him in her arms, exclaiming, "What
a pretty picture!"  Ingenious in seizing every occasion to please her husband, the Empress
summoned M. Gerard, and ordered a portrait of the young prince in this costume; and the picture
was brought to the palace of Saint-Cloud the very day on which the Empress heard of the death
of this beloved child.

He was hardly three years old when, seeing his shoemaker's bill paid with five-franc pieces,
he screamed loudly, not wishing that they should give away the picture of his Uncle Bibiche.
The name of Bibiche thus given by the young prince to his Majesty originated in this manner.
The Empress had several gazelles placed in the park of Saint-Cloud, which were very much afraid
of all the inhabitants of the palace except the Emperor, who allowed them to eat tobacco out
of his snuff-box, and thus induced them to follow him, and took much pleasure in giving them
the tobacco by the hands of the little Napoleon, whom he also put on the back of one of them.
The latter designated these pretty animals by no other name than that of Bibiche, and amused
himself by giving the same name to his uncle.

This charming child, who was adored by both father and mother, used his almost magical influence
over each in order to reconcile them to each other.  He took his father by the hand, who allowed
himself to be thus conducted by this angel of peace to Queen Hortense, and then said to him,
"Kiss her, papa, I beg you;" and was perfectly overjoyed when he had thus succeeded in reconciling
these two beings whom he loved with an equal affection.

How could such a beautiful character fail to make this angel beloved by all who knew him? 
How could the Emperor, who loved all children, fail to be devoted to him, even had he not been
his nephew, and the godson of that good Josephine whom he never ceased to love for a single
instant? At the age of seven years, when that malady, the croup, so dangerous to children,
snatched him from his heart-broken family, he already gave evidence of remarkable traits of
character, which were the foundation of most brilliant hopes.  His proud and haughty character,
while rendering him susceptible of the noblest impressions, was not incompatible with obedience
and docility.  The idea of injustice was revolting to him; but he readily submitted to reasonable
advice and rightful authority.

First-born of the new dynasty, it was fitting he should attract as he did the deepest tenderness
and solicitude of the chief.  Malignity and envy, which ever seek to defame and villify the
great, gave slanderous explanations of this almost paternal attachment; but wise and thoughtful
men saw in this adoptive tenderness only what it plainly evinced,--the desire and hope of transmitting
his immense power, and the grandest name in the universe, to an heir, indirect it is true,
but of imperial blood, and who, reared under the eyes, and by the direction of the Emperor,
would have been to him all that a son could be.  The death of the young Napoleon appeared as
a forerunner of misfortunes in the midst of his glorious career, disarranging all the plans
which the monarch had conceived, and decided him to concentrate all his hopes on an heir in
a direct line.

It was then that the first thoughts of divorce arose in his mind, though it did not take place
until two years later, and only began to be the subject of private conversation during the
stay at Fontainebleau.  The Empress readily saw the fatal results to her of the death of this
godson, and from that time she dwelt upon the idea of this terrible event which ruined her
life.  This premature death was to her an inconsolable grief; and she shut herself up for three
days, weeping bitterly, seeing no one except her women, and taking almost no nourishment. 
It even seemed that she feared to be distracted from her grief, as she surrounded herself with
a sort of avidity with all that could recall her irreparable loss. She obtained with some difficulty
from Queen Hortense some of the young prince's hair, which his heart-broken mother religiously
preserved; and the Empress had this hair framed on a cushion of black velvet, and kept it always
near her.  I often saw it at Malmaison, and never without deep emotion.

But how can I attempt to describe the despair of Queen Hortense, of that woman who became as
perfect a mother as she had been a daughter.  She never left her son a moment during his illness;
and when he expired in her arms, still wishing to remain near his lifeless body, she fastened
her arms through those of her chair, in order that she might not be torn from this heartrending
scene.  At last nature succumbed to such poignant grief: the unhappy mother fainted; and the
opportunity was taken to remove her to her own apartment, still in the chair which she had
not left, and which her arms clasped convulsively.  On awaking, the queen uttered piercing
screams, and her dry and staring eyes and white lips gave reason to fear that she was near
her end.  Nothing could bring tears to her eyes, until at last a chamberlain conceived the
idea of bringing the young prince's body, and placing it on his mother's knees; and this had
such an effect on her that her tears burst forth and saved her life, while she covered with
kisses the cold and adored remains.  All France shared the grief of the Queen of Holland.

CHAPTER IV.

We arrived at Saint-Cloud on the 27th of July; and the Emperor passed the summer partly in
this residence, and partly at Fontainebleau, returning to Paris only on special occasions,
and never remaining longer than twenty-four hours.  During his Majesty's absence, the chateau
of Rambouillet was restored and furnished anew, and the Emperor spent a few days there.  The
first time he entered the bathroom, he stopped short at the door and glanced around with every
appearance of surprise and dissatisfaction; and when I sought the cause of this, following
the direction of his Majesty's eyes, I saw that they rested on various family portraits which
the architect had painted on the walls of the room.  They were those of madame his mother,
his sisters, Queen Hortense, etc.; and the sight of such a gallery, in such a place, excited
the extreme displeasure of the Emperor.  "What nonsense!" he cried.  "Constant, summon Marshal
Duroc!"  And when the grand marshal appeared, his Majesty inquired, "Who is the idiot that
could have conceived such an idea? Order the painter to come and efface all that.  He must
have little respect for women to be guilty of such an indecency."

When the court sojourned at Fontainebleau, the inhabitants indemnified themselves amply for
his Majesty's long absences by the high price at which they sold all articles of food.  Their
extortions became scandalous impositions, and more than one foreigner making an excursion to
Fontainebleau thought himself held for ransom by a troop of Bedouins. During the stay of the
court; a wretched sacking-bed in a miserable inn cost twelve francs for a single night; the
smallest meal cost an incredible price, and was, notwithstanding, detestable; in fact, it amounted
to a genuine pillage of travelers.  Cardinal Caprara,

     [Giovanni Battista Caprara, born of a noble family at Bologna,
     1733; count and archbishop of Milan; cardinal, 1792; Negotiated the
     Concordat, 1801; died 1810]

whose rigid economy was known to all Paris, went one day to Fontainebleau to pay his court
to the Emperor, and at the hotel where he alighted took only a single cup of bouillon, and
the six persons of his suite partook only of a very light repast, as the cardinal had arranged
to return in three hours; but notwithstanding this, as he was entering his carriage, the landlord
had the audacity to present him with a bill for six hundred francs!  The prince of the church
indignantly protested, flew into a rage, threatened, etc., but all in vain; and the bill was paid.

Such an outrageous imposition could not fail to reach the Emperor's ears, and excited his anger
to such a degree that he at once ordered a fixed schedule of prices, which it was forbidden
the innkeepers to exceed. This put an end to the exactions of the bloodsuckers of Fontainebleau.

On the 21st of August, there arrived at Paris the Princess Catharine of Wurtemberg, future
wife of Prince Jerome Napoleon, King of Westphalia. This princess was about twenty-four years
of age, and very beautiful, with a most noble and gracious bearing; and though policy alone
had made this marriage, never could love or voluntary choice have made one that was happier.

The courageous conduct of her Majesty the Queen of Westphalia in 1814, her devotion to her
dethroned husband, and her admirable letters to her father, who wished to tear her from the
arms of King Jerome, are matters of history.  I have seen it stated that this prince never
ceased, even after this marriage, which was so flattering to his ambition, to correspond with
his first wife, Mademoiselle Patterson, and that he often sent to America his valet de chambre,
Rico, to inquire after this lady and their child.  If this is true, it is no less so that these
attentions to his first wife, which were not only very excusable, but even, according to my
opinion, praiseworthy in Prince Jerome, and of which her Majesty the Queen of Westphalia was
probably well aware, did not necessarily prevent her being happy with her husband.

No testimony more reliable than that of the queen her self can be given; and she expresses
herself as follows in her second letter to his Majesty, the King of Wurtemburg:--

     "Forced by policy to marry the king, my husband, fate has willed
     that I should find myself the happiest woman in the universe.  I
     feel towards my husband the united sentiments of love, tenderness,
     and esteem.  In this painful moment can the best of fathers wish to
     destroy my domestic happiness, the only kind which now remains to
     me?  I dare to say that you, my dear father, you and all my family,
     do great injustice to the king, my husband; and I trust the time
     will come when you will be convinced that you have done him
     injustice, and then you will ever find in him, as well as in myself,
     the most respectful and affectionate of children."

Her Majesty then spoke of a terrible misfortune to which she had been exposed.  This event,
which was indeed terrible, was nothing less than violence and robbery committed on a fugitive
woman defenseless and alone, by a band at the head of which was the famous Marquis de Maubreuil,
[A French political adventurer, born in Brittany, 1782; died 1855.] who had been equerry of
the King of Westphalia.  I will recur in treating of the events of 1814 to this disgraceful
affair, and will give some particulars, which I think are not generally known, in regard to
the principal authors and participants in this daring act of brigandage.

In the following month of September, a courier from the Russian cabinet arrived from St.  Petersburg,
bearing a letter to his Majesty from the Emperor Alexander; and among other magnificent gifts
were two very handsome fur pelisses of black fox and sable martin.

During their Majesties residence at Fontainebleau, the Emperor often went out in his carriage
with the Empress in the streets of the city with neither escort nor guards.  One day, while
passing before the hospital of Mont Pierreux, her Majesty the Empress saw at a window a very
aged clergyman, who saluted their Majesties.  The Empress, having returned the old man's salutation
with her habitual grace, pointed him out to the Emperor, who himself saluted him, and ordering
his coachman to stop, sent one of the footmen with a request to the old priest to come and
speak to them a moment, if it were not too great an exertion.  The old man, who still walked
with ease, hastened to descend; and in order to save him a few steps the Emperor had his carriage
driven very close to the door of the hospital.

His Majesty conversed for some time with the good ecclesiastic, manifesting the greatest kindness
and respect.  He informed their Majesties that he had been, previous to the Revolution, the
regular priest of one of the parishes of Fontainebleau, and had done everything possible to
avoid emigrating; but that terror had at length forced him to leave his native land, although
he was then more than seventy-five years old; that he had returned to France at the time of
the proclamation of the Concordat, and now lived on a modest pension hardly sufficient to pay
his board in the hospital.  "Monsieur l'Abbe," said his Majesty after listening to the old
priest attentively, "I will order your pension to be doubled; and if that is not sufficient
I hope you will apply to the Empress or to me."  The good ecclesiastic thanked the Emperor
with tears in his eyes.  "Unfortunately, Sire," said he among other things, "I am too old to
long enjoy your Majesty's reign or profit by your kindness."-- "YOU?" replied the Emperor,
smiling, "why, you are a young man.  Look at M. de Belloy; he is much your senior, and we hope
to keep him with us for a long time yet."  Their Majesties then took leave of the old man,
who was much affected, leaving him in the midst of a crowd of the inhabitants who had collected
before the hospital during this conversation, and who were much impressed by this interesting
scene and the generous kindness of the Emperor.

M. de Belloy, cardinal and archbishop of Paris, whose name the Emperor mentioned in the conversation
I have just related, was then ninety-eight years of age, though his health was excellent; and
I have never seen an old man who had as venerable an air as this worthy prelate.  The Emperor
had the profoundest respect for him, and never failed to give evidence of it on every occasion.
During this same month of September, a large number of the faithful having assembled according
to custom on Mount Valerien, the archbishop likewise repaired to the spot to hear mass.  As
he was about to withdraw, seeing that many pious persons were awaiting his benediction, he
addressed them before bestowing it in a few words which showed his kindness of heart and his
evangelical simplicity: "My children, I know that I must be very old from the loss of my strength,
but not of my zeal and my tenderness for you.  Pray God, my children, for your old archbishop,
who never fails to intercede on your behalf each day."

During his stay at Fontainebleau, the Emperor enjoyed more frequently than ever before the
pleasures of the chase.  The costume necessary was a French coat of green dragon color, decorated
with buttons and gold lace, white cashmere breeches, and Hessian boots without facings; this
was the costume for the grand hunt which was always a stag hunt; that for a hunt with guns
being a plain, green French coat with no other ornament than white buttons, on which were cut
suitable inscriptions.  This costume was the same for all persons taking part in this hunt,
with no distinguishing marks, even for his Majesty himself.

The princesses set out for the rendezvous in a Spanish carriage with either or four six horses,
and thus followed the chase, their costume being an elegant riding-habit, and a hat with white
or black plumes.

One of the Emperor's sisters (I do not now recall which) never failed to follow the hunt, accompanied
by many charming ladies who were always invited to breakfast at the rendezvous, as was always
the custom on similar occasions with the persons of the court.  One of these ladies, who was
both beautiful and intelligent, attracted the attention of the Emperor, a short correspondence
ensued, and at last the Emperor again ordered me to carry a letter.

In the palace of Fontainebleau is a private garden called the garden of Diana, to which their
Majesties alone had access.  This garden is surrounded on four sides by buildings; on the left
was the chapel with its gloomy gallery and Gothic architecture; on the right the grand gallery
(as well as I can remember); in the middle the building which contained their Majesties' apartments;
finally, in front of and facing the square were broad arcades, and behind them the buildings
intended for the various persons attached to household of the princes or the Emperor. Madame
de B----, the lady whom the Emperor had remarked, lodged in an apartment situated behind these
arcades on the ground floor; and his Majesty informed me that I would find a window open, through
which I must enter cautiously, in the darkness, and give his note to a person who would ask
for it.  This darkness was necessary, because this window opened on the garden, and though
behind the arcades, would have been noticed had there been a light.  Not knowing the interior
of these apartments, I entered through the window, thinking I could then walk on a level, but
had a terrible fall over a high step which was in the embrasure of the window.  I heard some
one scream as I fell, and a door was suddenly closed.  I had received severe bruises on my
knee, elbow, and head, and rising with difficulty, at once began a search around the apartment,
groping in the dark; but hearing nothing more, and fearing to make some fresh noise which might
be heard by persons who should not know of my presence there, I decided to return to the Emperor,
and report to him my adventures.

Finding that none of my injuries were serious, the Emperor laughed most heartily, and then
added, "Oh, oh, so there is a step; it is well to know that.  Wait till Madame B---- is over
her fright; I will go to her, and you will accompany me."  At the end of an hour, the Emperor
emerged with me from the door of his cabinet which opened on the garden.  I conducted him in
silence towards the window which was still open and assisted him to enter, and having obtained
to my cost a correct idea of the spot, directed him how to avoid a fall.

