Lesson-time over, the children resort to their tame animals, to their weaving-machines, their
wind-mills and dams; to their gardens, kites and ships; to swimming, rowing, foot-ball, marbles,
leap-frog, base-ball and cricket. In the practice of these games, skill, dexterity and knowledge
are acquired of which the pupils appreciate the utility, and enjoy not only for present, but
for anticipated future use.

Natural History, to be taught in school and made a reality, by following the guide given us
by nature in the amusements to which children resort of their own accord, should be a prominent
subject of instruction and training in the school. Cultivating the faculties of observation
and of analysis, it should be among the earliest subjects of instruction, and, at the same
time, of amusement.

But they ought not to be taught from books; nature and the teacher are the only books to be
employed until considerable progress has been made by the pupils. It is so easy to procure
the things themselves for the study of botany; an abundant supply of wild flowers can be so
readily obtained, sufficient to enable each child to be supplied with specimens for examination
and dissection. The interest of the children in their study can be so easily awakened and sustained
by the judicious teacher, the difficulties of the supposed hard words of scientific names disappear
so readily, that the real difficulty is to understand how so obvious a subject of instruction
is either wholly banished from the schools, or sought to be taught only from books, without
any reference to living nature.

The variety and multiplicity of insect life affords ample opportunity for the study of that
branch of natural history--and entomology would be found not less beautiful and interesting
than botany; the delightful excursions in which teachers and pupils would join for the gathering
of objects of natural history would at the same time serve to strengthen the bond of affection
which should exist between them. The nature of his own body and the functions of his various
organs will soon interest the pupil, and along with instruction therein he would learn the
qualities of the different kinds of animal and vegetable substances in use for food, their
relative value and importance in building up his body; he would learn to compare the food now
in use with that which was employed by our ancestors, and what has given rise to the adoption
of the new and abandonment of the old; the methods of cookery best adapted to each kind of
food, and what kinds of food are suitable for particular ages and states of health; what material,
vegetable or animal, is most suitable for clothing, separately or in combination. He would
learn to compare our present style of clothing with that adopted in past ages; he would learn
the history of the changes which have been adopted, and while feeling desirous of retaining
such as have been wisely adopted, might learn from past experience to desire to return to some
good habits as to clothing which have been abandoned.

The tight-fitting garments in which we unhealthily clothe our bodies, a fashion for which we
are indebted to the use of armor in times when the chief occupation of man was mutual slaughter,
and the great object of desire to secure protection against hostile weapons, might some time
come to be discarded for the more healthful practices of the ancient Asiatics and Romans, if
a general knowledge of the unhealthfulness of our present practices should come to prevail.

The necessity and meaning of light and cleanliness, the indifference of the human body to all
natural changes of temperature, when strengthened and maintained in health by wholesome food
and efficient bathing, might lead to the taking of effective measures to restore the old Roman
bath to general use.

As regards shelter, why a building on the ground is generally to be preferred to a cave or
shelter in the ground--what materials are best adapted for roofs, what for walls, floors, windows,
why we use stone or brick in one part of the country and wood in another; what sizes, shapes,
means of warmth and ventilation, for privacy and social enjoyment, should be adopted, and as
regards furniture and utensils, what are most suitable for the several parts of a dwelling;
what should guide our selection of material, fabrics, shape, size and pattern; how to establish
a communication from one part of a building to another; how water and light are to be had most
readily. All these things should form the subject of school study and inquiry.

The means of locomotion, how streets, roads and paths should be laid out and maintained; the
construction and use of carriages, cars, wagons, tramways, railroads, ships, steamers, propelling
power; where bridges should be built, and how; viaducts and embankments to cross valleys, cuttings
and tunnels to penetrate hills and mountains; these, too, simply at first, and afterwards in
more elaborate detail, should form subjects of school instruction, the rules determining the
selection of each and the methods of their construction not being preached in lectures, ex
Cathedra, but evolved by a patient questioning of nature, by experiment and the Socratic method
of inquiry. Exercise of the limbs under the direction of a skilled instructor, so that all
the muscles of the body may be duly trained, and a healthy body built up to support a healthy
mind. The kinds of recreation to be selected, whether bull-baiting, cock-fighting, rat-catching
or prize-fighting, should be preferred to games of skill and strength, to the drama, literature,
works of art, public walks, gardens, and museums; the comparative influence of all these upon
the health, strength, courage, activity, humanity, refinement and happiness of society; how
people may be led to prefer such as tend to general well-being to those which have a tendency
to brutalize and debase. All these also should be dwelt upon in the school.

How stores of food, of clothing, of fuel and of the materials for building may be collected
and preserved; how present labor may be made to supply future wants, and the thought of future
enjoyment be made to sweeten the present toil. How the means of instruction and of amusement
may be secured. How all engaged in supplying one need of society co-operate with all who are
engaged in supplying its other needs. What form of government is best, and how it may be best
administered. How upright judges may be secured, justice administered, and society protected
against internal and external foes. These and all the other subjects enumerated would, if handled
by a true teacher, be found most attractive to children.

The names given to the subjects at which we have glanced are: Natural History, the Mathematical
and Physical Sciences in all their branches, Vegetable and Animal Physiology, the Political
and Social Sciences; which should be presented in the order in which the attention and desire
to learn could be aroused.

It will hardly fail to strike the mind of the reader that nothing has yet been said about giving
instruction in the use of those tools for acquiring knowledge, reading, writing, ciphering
and drawing. The true teacher will understand the omission. The commencement of the instruction
in reading, writing, ciphering, drawing, and in spelling, would take place as part of the object
lesson which should be adopted as the first step to knowledge, and should be retained in the
most advanced classes as the most perfect method of applying the knowledge which has been acquired.
It would soon be understood by the pupils that the power of reading, of writing, of designing
and of calculating is essential to the acquirement of knowledge, and to any thing like extent
and variety of information on subjects relating to individual and social well-being. The desire
of acquiring this knowledge would quicken the faculties of the children, augment their industry,
and lighten the labors of the teacher to an indefinable extent. The teacher who should fail
to impart a moderate degree of skill in these arts to most, and of excellence to many, at the
same time that adequate progress was made in the study of the sciences we have named, should
be deemed unfit for his profession, and not be allowed to relieve himself from disgrace by
magnifying the difficulties of his task or by complaints of the idleness or want of capacity
of his pupils. As children will take interest in what they learn in proportion to their understanding
of its bearing upon their own happiness, and upon their actual life and surroundings, the knowledge
of themselves as beings acted upon by surrounding objects and by their own kind, should be
carefully imparted to them simultaneously with the knowledge of the qualities of the surrounding
objects destined to act upon them.

Children thus worked upon by skilled and earnest instructors; led to find out and observe the
properties of that Nature of which they form a part; their minds nourished by the enjoyment
which follows the mastering of every difficulty, and the addition of every fresh item of knowledge
to their previous store; trained also in habits of healthfulness and of amiability; will not
only cheerfully give themselves to study, but will also seek to dignify by their conduct and
to improve by practice the knowledge they progressively acquire, soon understanding, among
other things, why they are sent to school and the importance of that education, part of which
they are to acquire at school.

As the object of the school-teaching should be to prepare the pupils for actual life, they
should be made familiar with the idea that all their means of subsistence and enjoyment can
only be obtained by labor; not only should their attention be called to the fact, but they
should be made sensible how much skill, knowledge and labor and economy were needed for the
creation of existing stores, and are needed for their maintenance in undiminished quantity;
nor can this be done in any way more fitly or completely than by performing under their eyes,
and causing them to take part in, the actual business of production. The well-ordered school
is an industrial school, in which every industrial occupation, manufacturing or agricultural,
for the carrying on of which convenience can be made, should be successively practised by the
children, under the direction of skilled workers.

The farm, the factory, the shop, the counting-house and the kitchen, should each have its type
in the school, and present to the minds of the children a picture of real life; while their
practice would impart a skill and adaptability to the pupils which would insure their preparedness
for all the vicissitudes of the most eventful life.

Can any reason be suggested for adopting a different system of instruction for girls than that
which shall be determined on as best fitted for boys? We confess to our inability to perceive
any--both are organisms of the same all-pervading nature--to both the most intimate knowledge
of that which skill and perseverance secure, seems to be desirable for their happiness, and
that of all mankind. Of the two, perhaps, the greatest knowledge is needed for the woman, FOR
HERS IS THE MORE IMPORTANT AND MORE PERFECTED ORGANISM; to her is committed the performance
of the chief functions of the highest act of organized beings, viz., reproduction; therefore,
upon her knowledge and conduct, far more than upon that of the man, depends the future of the
beings in whom she is to live again.

Another great object with the true teacher, will be so to train the judgment of his pupils
as to avoid that forming of unconsidered opinion which is the parent of prejudice and a chief
obstacle to progress. Trained to investigate the foundations of every fact in nature and in
science, to weigh the evidences on which they are asked to receive assertions, whether of a
physical, moral or social nature, they will ever have a reason for the faith that is in them;
and will know how to SUSPEND JUDGMENT when the means of knowledge are insufficient.

Such pupils will not be apt to form opinions either in physical science, politics, or industrial
life, without having first thoroughly examined the bases of the opinions they form and express,
while the prejudices imbibed from nurses or parents, will be subjected to vigorous investigation,
and either received as sound doctrine, or discarded as ill-founded and superstitious. Of how
many prejudices are we not the victims, without being ourselves in the least conscious of the
fact! Our political opinions, our social customs, are taken up like the fashion of a coat,
without reason or reflection; and habit and association, but too often hold us captive long
after reason has pronounced her condemnation; our minds have been warped from truth, and we
fail to perceive our own deficiency, to recognize the mental dishonesty with which we are afflicted.
All this will be averted in the case of those who in their youth are trained to a rigorous
investigation of every fact presented to their minds, until the habit of truth, not merely
of speaking and telling the truth, but that mental truthfulness which shrinks from accepting
a falsehood for truth, and acknowledges ignorance rather than utter what is not assured--will
become as much a part of the pupil's nature as is his desire for food. In short, he would be
so trained as to feel as great a repugnance to plunge his mind into moral, as his body into
material filth.

Again, while ever merciful and pitying to the criminal, he would be intolerant of falsehood
wherever it might be found; and he would deem himself derelict in his duty, as a man and as
a citizen, did he leave corruption to rot and fester in the Commonwealth, because he and others
like him would not take the trouble to raise their voices against wrongdoers!

What a different aspect would not this great city of New York offer to our inspection to what
it now presents, had a generation been trained in the knowledge, and practised in the observance
of their duties as citizens!

Did those merchants and traders, who, in their private dealings would scorn a lie, but recognize
the duty they owe as citizens and as men of truth, they would, by uniting, soon sweep away
the serious discredit to our country and to Republican Institutions, the festering corruption
of this city and of the State; yet it is to their supine, nay wicked tolerance of the evil
that we owe the specimens of judicial corruption by which we are robbed and dishonored. Can
it be said that any system of education can be sound, which shall fail to demonstrate, at least
to the older pupils, their duties as citizens, to take an active, intelligent and upright interest
in public affairs; that shall fail to instruct them in the principles by which their judgments
should be guided, and lead them to discard every action in public affairs, which they would
not approve in private life?

We must cease to live in books, in past mystifications, in useless theories, in foolish and
unprofitable discussions, in ancient ideas and customs, and grasp the living present with all
the richness, fullness and beauty of its life. The chemistry of nature, the work of her great
laboratory, should be the study of youth as of age, instead of dead languages and the vain
and foolish mythology of Greeks and Romans wherewith at present we poison the minds of the young.

"Can we take burning coals into our bosom and not be burned?" Can we suffer the impressionable
minds of youth to be impregnated with the filth of the heathen poets in their imaginings of
gods as disgusting as themselves, without staining the pure tablet of the mind with spots and
grossness, while the children acquire a distaste for that glorious nature whose volume should
be their constant study?

We have to deal with the great present, with life, not with death--to promote health, physical
and moral, not to propagate infectious sickness. The present, wisely improved, leads to a happy
future, and is the only road to that goal. We can not jump the present and its duties and reach
the future so as to enjoy it, neither can the dead past lighten the labors of the living present.
There is a past which still lives and vivifies the present, but the quaint and filthy imagery
in which the ancient priests disguised from the profane--from all but the initiated--the mysteries
of their lore, can be of small account to a people whose great duty is the dissemination of
light and truth.

Every thing that has any relation to man's comfort and well-being, or to his happiness as a
social being, that it is, and not the dead past that we should learn, and of the things that
affect us most nearly we should learn first. What did the ancients know of steam, of electricity,
of the material elements of nature, of her forces? And little as we know, how much of that
little could be learned from a lifelong study of ancient lore? If there be aught of value in
the laws of ancient Rome which has not been translated into our native tongue, let it be translated;
but let not our youth waste precious years in learning to play upon an instrument (Greek or
Latin) which when learned can give forth no sound. But if we turn to Nature and to her grand
volume, we there find all the knowledge man can acquire. From her study, too, we can learn
a lesson, not perhaps among the least important, as to the limits fixed by nature to human
knowledge. To know of a surety what those things are which never can be known to mortal man,
is a knowledge, the want of which has driven many to puerile and superstitious practices, and
many more to madness and despair.

From the great book of Nature, God's book, is to be learned the principle of justice, of love,
of wisdom, of truth; and as the germ of justice is developed in the mind, the mind is brought
in contact with the Great Fountain, absorbs a portion of its light, enlarges, develops, becomes
stronger, assimilates to itself the essence of the great Godhead, and renders man godlike.

So with each of the other faculties of man; each draws its nourishment from its special FOUNTAIN.
Wisdom, love, justice, and truth should preside; and if judgment, sympathy and conscientiousness
be judiciously trained and developed, they will help to develop harmoniously all the other
faculties. But to this end they, and each and all of man's faculties, must be brought into
a wholesome, natural contact, each with its proper food; and by natural we mean not that contact
which might peradventure happen if left uncared for, but such as the nature of the faculty
demands for its development in due harmony, to produce the greatest amount of happiness to
its possessor. To supply this food, to bring to each faculty its proper aliment, is the business
of the true teacher. If we desire a child to be truthful, we must bring it in contact with
truth, and bring it to love truth by causing its practice to inure to the child's enjoyment.
If we wish it to be wise, we must bring its mind in contact with wisdom, exercise its analytical
powers, and train its judgment; let it see sound judgment producing happiness; let it see how
beautiful and desirable is the possession of wisdom, and the child will soon learn to seek
it for its own sake.

To chastise a child for speaking that which is untrue may fill it with fear, but does not make
it love truth. The love of truth and of wisdom must be cultivated as we cultivate the love
of music. "Seek me early, and ye shall find me." "Knock, and it shall be opened unto you."
That which the mind seeks it will find. The natural relationships are established, and it is
only for us to work in harmony with, and not obstruct or interfere with them. It is the "true
relationship of things" we need to learn. There is nothing in us that is not in nature. All
the forces developed in man are but developments of nature; and all the forces required for
his nourishment and strength exist in the bosom of Nature. Matter, light, heat, electricity
are not produced by him. In nature they exist; remove any one of them and he perishes. To Nature
then must we ever turn as the reservoir of nourishment and as the teacher, by the study of
whose volume we learn all of wisdom that can be known of mortal man, or that can tend to his
well-being; and her true relationships must be the constant object of our search. Before the
knowledge of her true relationships disappear superstition and fear and mystery. The lightning's
flash, the thunder's roar, the falling meteor and the sun's eclipse cease to terrify and alarm.
Witches, hobgoblins and demons come no longer to trouble us; the most unusual phenomena awaken
only philosophical research and curiosity. And what is true of the full-grown man is not less
true of the child.

That school wherein children above the age of infancy fail to assist the teacher in his instruction,
is an ill-ordered school. It is not the subject, but the teacher who is uninteresting; he scolds,
worries and punishes his pupils, when he himself is the fitter subject for the lash. He awakens
the sense of fear which should lie dormant, while the other faculties of his pupils slumber
in spiritless inactivity.

As the object of education is to prepare children to enter successfully and happily into life,
and wisely to discharge all the duties devolving upon them as they unfold into men and women,
and occupy the sphere assigned to them, the simple rule for the course of instruction seems
to be, that they should learn those things in the order in which they can be received by the
child's mind, which most vitally affect their well-being and happiness.

As only a healthy, well-developed body can afford a home to a healthy, well-developed mind,
physical culture claims early and constant attention, and should receive that careful regard
to which the truth contained in the well-known aphorism: "We are fearfully and wonderfully
made," entitles it. The teachings of the sciences of Pathology and of sanitary science should
be judiciously and carefully elucidated, practically and theoretically; presented step by step
to the mind of the child; and the child's body and mind should be carefully trained, so as
to develop all its physical and mental powers in harmony. Gymnasiums for the body, conducted
by men who have made themselves masters of anatomy and physiology, should be an essential feature
in every school, so that ignorance and the desire to excel may not lead to putting a strain
upon the system calculated materially to injure organs which need careful and judicious development.
Plays, games, dancing, marching and the gymnasium all require the careful supervision of a
teacher well versed in a practical knowledge of the human system, and thoroughly appreciative
of the great truth, "We are fearfully and wonderfully made." But the foundation for the school
as for the life career must be laid at home, and much as the teacher can do, he can never supply
deficiencies resulting from the want of a well-ordered home or of a healthy home training.
Never, save under necessity, should the parent yield up his sacred duty to another, at least
during the tender years of childhood.

The education of the heart and of the affections, is as essential as the school education,
and these can never be so well cultivated as under the influence of home. All must be developed
in order to maintain the true equilibrium. The boarding-school is not the place for children
to attain a sound moral development, and the sooner parents generally understand this truth,
the better for their children, for themselves and for society. As well uproot the flower, or
shrub or tree, and expect it to flourish, as to cut the child off from the influence of home,
and the care of a loving mother, father, brother and sister, and hope that the sympathetic
faculties of its mind can attain their just development.

Physical culture, heretofore neglected among us--the body being left to grow up as it may happen
or chance--will form a prominent feature of training in every well-ordered school. All the
muscles of the body will be in turn exercised, developed. The ancient Greeks afforded us here
also a wise example, which we have signally failed to imitate.

Let us secure for our children all the advantages we can from an enlightened and natural system
of education, and do all we can to perfect both mind and body. How often is the cry repeated,
"Mamma, tell me a story," and mamma, tired and weary, says she is too busy, or, for the want
of a better, tells over again for the hundredth time, "Little Red Riding Hood," or some other
equally foolish or more injurious tale, such as Bluebeard or Cinderella. Anecdotes of great
men, suitably arranged, events in history and biography, carrying with them valuable and important
morals, will afford all the amusement the child desires, without developing a love for the
marvellous and false, which leads it away in infancy from the simple, truthful, and natural.
If children are to be taught to think naturally and truthfully, we can not begin too young,
and it is the duty of parents to remember that Valentine and Orson, Cinderella, Bluebeard,
and such stories, are a web of false and exaggerated statements that will, and do produce injurious
effects upon the child's mind. The story of Aladdin's Lamp has made many a child desire to
enjoy wealth without labor, and has exerted a most pernicious, though unsuspected, influence
upon his future. Children, not less than men, seek an easy road to the objects of their desires;
and while works of imagination are to be by no means discarded in mental training, such should
not be selected as give false notions of the busy and industrial life into which the child
is to be introduced. Even in the choice and use of the finest works of fiction, the greatest
caution is necessary. The little one can hardly distinguish between a fable that amuses it,
and a lie told to shield it from punishment. If it hear nothing but truth, it will know nothing
but truth; and a truthful mind is a glorious thing to behold in children as in men. "An idle
brain is the devil's workshop;" therefore let there be no idle brains, but let all work usefully
and pleasantly. Usefully we say, for even amusement is useful. We live in a world of use, in
a world of beauty, a world that can be greatly improved, and human happiness largely increased,
according as we avail ourselves of the knowledge already acquired for the right teaching and
training of the young, so that they may grow up and develop into happy, self-supporting men
and women, diffusing happiness to all around, themselves happy in proportion to the happiness
they cause.

THE SCHOOL.

Upon the organization and arrangement of the school largely depends the success of the educator.
Two things must be borne constantly in mind. First, to create truthful and intellectual atmosphere,
where wisdom, honor, and knowledge can be inhaled as with the breath, and second, to make the
school cheerful and attractive in every way possible. We must get rid of the idea now generally
prevailing among children, that the school is to be resorted to with regret and escaped from
with pleasure.

So soon as the child will look at and become interested in pictures and toys, and will listen
to tales and little stories, it can profitably be introduced in the school, the first department
of which should be the Infant-school, or, as the Germans so aptly term it, the children's garden,
or Kinder Garten.

Here plaiting, modelling, and building, with simple object lessons for the older infants, develop
their powers of observation, and give employment and impart skill to little fingers which might
else be engaged in destroying furniture or clothes, or in pilfering from the sugar-bowl. Practical
familiarity with the properties of lines, angles, circles, spheres, cylinders, cubes, cones,
and the conic sections will be acquired, which will give a life and reality to the geometrical
studies which will occupy them in their school career. Dancing and singing will relieve the
tedium of sitting, shake off the surplus energy, give rest to the body, and power, time, and
tune to the voice. Models of houses, stores, workshops, kitchens, farms, and factories, which
later on they will assist in making, will be a source alike of amusement and instruction.

In the children's garden no teacher should have charge of more than about twelve children,
who should regard her as their mother-teacher, while she should seek to win the love and confidence
of the little ones as the beginning of her work.

Each class of twelve should have their own special room, while for general purposes, such as
music, drilling, gymnastic exercises, games, tableaux, and exhibitions of the magic lantern,
the oxyhydrogen microscope, the stereopticon, and the like, they should assemble in a large
hall. The details of arrangements will readily suggest themselves. The main feature is to have
all things natural, free, pleasant, cheerful, bright, refined, and unrestrained by external
forms or rigid rules, at the same time that order is secured by an easy discipline.

So deeply are we impressed with the importance and utility of the kinder garten, and with the
high qualities required by the teacher of the very young, that we are more and more disposed
to believe that the true order in rank and promotion among teachers should be, to speak in
paradox, downwards; that is to say, the younger the children to be taught, the higher the rank
and remuneration of the teacher; for not only is an extensive range of knowledge necessary
to enable the teacher truthfully to answer the innumerable questions of inquisitive infancy,
and to avoid giving false notions, to be afterwards with greater or less difficulty removed--always
with a shock to the moral sentiment when the child discovers it has been deceived--but also
a knowledge of the infant mind, a perception of the thoughts and fancies which chase one another
through the infant brain, a knowledge and perceptive power which only a watchful and loving
experience can acquire. An industry and a patience far beyond any needed by the teacher of
more advanced pupils are also required by the highly-cultivated men and women, to whom alone
the training of infant minds should be intrusted. Advanced pupils go more than half-way to
meet their teacher--the infant can render no assistance to his, all has to be borne, suffered
and done for him--his future habits depend mainly on those given to him in his earliest years.
Yet the care of him in these important days is generally confided to ignorant nurses and to
the less-skilled class of teachers.

