A difficulty occurred at this time which much mortified the King.  Little by little he had
taken all the ambassadors to visit Messieurs du Maine and de Toulouse, as though they were
Princes of the blood.  The nuncio, Cavallerini, visited them thus, but upon his return to Rome
was so taken to task for it, that his successor, Delfini, did not dare to imitate him. The
cardinals considered that they had lowered themselves, since Richelieu and Mazarm, by treating
even the Princes of the blood on terms of equality, and giving them their hand, which had not
been customary m the time of the two first ministers just named.  To do so to the illegitimate
offspring of the King, and on occasions of ceremony, appeared to them monstrous.  Negotiations
were carried on for a month, but Delfini would not bend, and although in every other respect
he had afforded great satisfaction during his nunciature, no farewell audience was given to
him; nor even a secret audience.  He was deprived of the gift of a silver vessel worth eighteen
hundred francs, that it was customary to present to the cardinal nuncios at their departure:
and he went away without saying adieu to anybody.

Some time before, M. de Monaco had been sent as ambassador to Rome.  He claimed to be addressed
by the title of "Highness," and persisted in it with so much obstinacy that he isolated, himself
from almost everybody, and brought the affairs of his embassy nearly to a standstill by the
fetters he imposed upon them in the most necessary transactions.  Tired at last of the resistance
he met with, he determined to refuse the title of "Excellence," although it might fairly belong
to them, to all who refused to address him as "Highness."  This finished his affair; for after
that determination no one would see him, and the business of the embassy suffered even more
than before.  It is difficult to comprehend why the King permitted such a man to remain as
his representative at a foreign Court.

Madame de Navailles died on the 14th of February: Her mother, Madame de Neuillant, who became
a widow, was avarice itself.  I cannot say by what accident or chance it was that Madame de
Maintenon in returning young and poor from America, where she had lost her father and mother,
fell in landing at Rochelle into the hands of Madame de Neuillant, who lived in Poitou.  Madame
de Neuillant took home Madame de Maintenon, but could not resolve to feed her without making
her do something in return.  Madame de Maintenon was charged therefore with the key of the
granary, had to measure out the corn and to see that it was given to the horses.  It was Madame
de Neuillant who brought Madame de Maintenon to Paris, and to get rid of her married her to
Scarron, and then retired into Poitou.

Madame de Navailles was the eldest daughter of this Madame de Neuillant, and it was her husband,
M. de Navailles, who, serving under M. le Prince in Flanders, received from that General a
strong reprimand for his ignorance.  M. le Prince wanted to find the exact position of a little
brook which his maps did not mark.  To assist him in the search, M. de Navailles brought a
map of the world!  On another occasion, visiting M. Colbert, at Sceaux, the only thing M. de
Navailles could find to praise was the endive of the kitchen garden: and when on the occasion
of the Huguenots the difficulty of changing religion was spoken of, he declared that if God
had been good enough to make him a Turk, he should have remained so.

Madame de Navailles had been lady of honour to the Queen-mother, and lost that place by a strange
adventure.

She was a woman of spirit and of virtue, and the young ladies of honour were put under her
charge.  The King was at this time young and gallant. So long as he held aloof from the chamber
of the young ladies, Madame de Navailles meddled not, but she kept her eye fixed upon all that
she controlled.  She soon perceived that the King was beginning to amuse himself, and immediately
after she found that a door had secretly been made into the chamber of the young ladies; that
this door communicated with a staircase by which the King mounted into the room at night, and
was hidden during the day by the back of a bed placed against it.  Upon this Madame de Navailles
held counsel with her husband.  On one side was virtue and honour, on the other, the King's
anger, disgrace, and exile. The husband and wife did not long hesitate.  Madame de Navailles
at once took her measures, and so well, that in a few hours one evening the door was entirely
closed up.  During the same night the King, thinking to enter as usual by the little staircase,
was much surprised to no longer find a door.  He groped, he searched, he could not comprehend
the disappearance of the door, or by what means it had become wall again. Anger seized him;
he doubted not that the door had been closed by Madame de Navailles and her husband.  He soon
found that such was the case, and on the instant stripped them of almost all their offices,
and exiled them from the Court.  The exile was not long; the Queen-mother on her death- bed
implored him to receive back Monsieur and Madame de Navailles, and he could not refuse.  They
returned, and M. de Navailles nine years afterwards was made Marechal of France.  After this
Madame de Navailles rarely appeared at the Court.  Madame de Maintenon could not refuse her
distinctions and special favours, but they were accorded rarely and by moments.  The King always
remembered his door; Madame de Maintenon always remembered the hay and barley of Madame de
Neuillant, and neither years nor devotion could deaden the bitterness of the recollection.

From just before Candlemas-day to Easter of this year, nothing was heard of but balls and pleasures
of the Court.  The King gave at Versailles and at Marly several masquerades, by which he was
much amused, under pretext of amusing the Duchesse de Bourgogne.  At one of these balls at
Marly a ridiculous scene occurred.  Dancers were wanting and Madame de Luxembourg on account
of this obtained an invitation, but with great difficulty, for she lived in such a fashion
that no woman would see her.  Monsieur de Luxembourg was perhaps the only person in France
who was ignorant of Madame de Luxembourg's conduct.  He lived with his wife on apparently good
terms and as though he had not the slightest mistrust of her.  On this occasion, because of
the want of dancers, the King made older people dance than was customary, and among others
M. de Luxembourg.  Everybody was compelled to be masked.  M. de Luxembourg spoke on this subject
to M. le Prince, who, malicious as any monkey, determined to divert all the Court and himself
at the Duke's expense.  He invited M. de Luxembourg to supper, and after that meal was over,
masked him according to his fancy.

Soon after my arrival at the ball, I saw a figure strangely clad in long flowing muslin, and
with a headdress on which was fixed the horns of a stag, so high that they became entangled
in the chandelier.  Of course everybody was much astonished at so strange a sight, and all
thought that that mask must be very sure of his wife to deck himself so.  Suddenly the mask
turned round and showed us M. de Luxembourg.  The burst of laughter at this was scandalous.
Good M. de Luxembourg, who never was very remarkable for wit, benignly took all this laughter
as having been excited simply by the singularity of his costume, and to the questions addressed
him, replied quite simply that his dress had been arranged by M. le Prince; then, turning to
the right and to the left, he admired himself and strutted with pleasure at having been masked
by M. le Prince. In a moment more the ladies arrived, and the King immediately after them.
The laughter commenced anew as loudly as ever, and M. de Luxembourg presented himself to the
company with a confidence that was ravishing. His wife had heard nothing of this masquerading,
and when she saw it, lost countenance, brazen as she was.  Everybody stared at her and her
husband, and seemed dying of laughter.  M. le Prince looked at the scene from behind the King,
and inwardly laughed at his malicious trick.  This amusement lasted throughout all the ball,
and the King, self-contained as he usually was, laughed also; people were never tired of admiring
an invention so, cruelly ridiculous, and spoke of it for several days.

No evening passed on which there was not a ball.  The chancellor's wife gave one which was
a fete the most gallant and the most magnificent possible.  There were different rooms for
the fancy-dress ball, for the masqueraders, for a superb collation, for shops of all countries,
Chinese, Japanese, &c., where many singular and beautiful things were sold, but no money taken;
they were presents for the Duchesse de Bourgogne and the ladies.  Everybody was especially
diverted at this entertainment, which did not finish until eight o'clock in the morning. Madame
de Saint-Simon and I passed the last three weeks of this time without ever seeing the day.
Certain dancers were only allowed to leave off dancing at the same time as the Duchesse de
Bourgogne.  One morning, at Marty, wishing to escape too early, the Duchess caused me to be
forbidden to pass the doors of the salon; several of us had the same fate.  I was delighted
when Ash Wednesday arrived; and I remained a day or two dead beat, and Madame de Saint-Simon
could not get over Shrove Tuesday.

La Bourlie, brother of Guiscard, after having quitted the service, had retired to his estate
near Cevennes, where he led a life of much licence. About this time a robbery was committed
in his house; he suspected one of the servants, and on his own authority put the man to the
torture.  This circumstance could not remain so secret but that complaints spread abroad. 
The offence was a capital one.  La Bourlie fled from the realm, and did many strange things
until his death, which was still more strange; but of which it is not yet time to speak.

Madame la Duchesse, whose heavy tradesmen's debts the King had paid not long since, had not
dared to speak of her gambling debts, also very heavy.  They increased, and, entirely unable
to pay them, she found herself in the greatest embarrassment.  She feared, above all things,
lest M. le Prince or M. le Duc should hear of this.  In this extremity she addressed herself
to Madame de Maintenon, laying bare the state of her finances, without the slightest disguise.
Madame de Maintenon had pity on her situation, and arranged that the King should pay her debts,
abstain from scolding her, and keep her secret.  Thus, in a few weeks, Madame la Duchesse found
herself free of debts, without anybody whom she feared having known even of their existence.

Langlee was entrusted with the payment and arrangement of these debts. He was a singular kind
of man at the Court, and deserves a word.  Born of obscure parents, who had enriched themselves,
he had early been introduced into the great world, and had devoted himself to play, gaining
an immense fortune; but without being accused of the least unfairness. With but little or no
wit, but much knowledge of the world, he had succeeded in securing many friends, and in making
his way at the Court. He joined in all the King's parties, at the time of his mistresses. Similarity
of tastes attached Langlee to Monsieur, but he never lost sight of the King.  At all the fetes
Langlee was present, he took part in the journeys, he was invited to Marly, was intimate with
all the King's mistresses; then with all the daughters of the King, with whom indeed he was
so familiar that he often spoke to them with the utmost freedom.  He had become such a master
of fashions and of fetes that none of the latter were given, even by Princes of the blood,
except under his directions; and no houses were bought, built, furnished, or ornamented, without
his taste being consulted.  There were no marriages of which the dresses and the presents were
not chosen, or at least approved, by him.  He was on intimate terms with the most distinguished
people of the Court; and often took improper advantage of his position.  To the daughters of
the King and to a number of female friends he said horribly filthy things, and that too in
their own houses, at St. Cloud or at Marly.  He was often made a confidant in matters of gallantry,
and continued to be made so all his life.  For he was a sure man, had nothing disagreeable
about him, was obliging, always ready to serve others with his purse or his influence, and
was on bad terms with no one.

While everybody, during all this winter, was at balls and amusements, the beautiful Madame
de Soubise--for she was so still--employed herself with more serious matters.  She had just
bought, very cheap, the immense Hotel de Guise, that the King assisted her to pay for.  Assisted
also by the King, she took steps to make her bastard son canon of Strasbourg; intrigued so
well that his birth was made to pass muster, although among Germans there is a great horror
of illegitimacy, and he was received into the chapter.  This point gained, she laid her plans
for carrying out another, and a higher one, nothing less than that of making her son Archbishop
of Strasbourg.

But there was an obstacle, in the way.  This obstacle was the Abbe d'Auvergne (nephew of Cardinal
de Bouillon), who had the highest position in the chapter, that of Grand Prevot, had been there
much longer than the Abbe de Soubise, was older, and of more consequence.  His reputation,
however, was against him; his habits were publicly known to be those of the Greeks, whilst
his intellect resembled theirs in no way.  By his stupidity he published his bad conduct, his
perfect ignorance, his dissipation, his ambition; and to sustain himself he had only a low,
stinking, continual vanity, which drew upon him as much disdain as did his habits, alienated
him from all the world, and constantly subjected him to ridicule.

The Abbe de Soubise had, on the contrary, everything smiling in his favour, even his exterior,
which showed that he was born of the tenderest amours.  Upon the farms of the Sorbonne he had
much distinguished himself.  He had been made Prior of Sorbonne, and had shone conspicuously
in that position, gaining eulogies of the most flattering kind from everybody, and highly pleasing
the King.  After this, he entered the seminary of Saint Magloire, then much in vogue, and gained
the good graces of the Archbishop of Paris, by whom that seminary was favoured. On every side
the Abbe de Soubise was regarded, either as a marvel of learning, or a miracle of piety and
purity of manners.  He had made himself loved everywhere, and his gentleness, his politeness,
his intelligence, his graces, and his talent for securing friends, confirmed more and more
the reputation he had established.

The Abbe d'Auvergne had a relative, the Cardinal de Furstenberg, who also had two nephews,
canons of Strasbourg, and in a position to become claimants to the bishopric.  Madame de Soubise
rightly thought that her first step must be to gain over the Cardinal to her side.  There was
a channel through which this could be done which at once suggested itself to her mind.  Cardinal
Furstenberg, it was said, had been much enamoured of the Comtesse de La Marck, and had married
her to one of his nephews, in order that he might thus see her more easily.  It was also said
that he had been well treated, and it is certain that nothing was so striking as the resemblance,
feature for feature, of the Comte de La Marck to Cardinal de Furstenberg.  If the Count was
not the son of the Cardinal he was nothing to him.  The attachment of Cardinal Furstenberg
for the Comtesse de La Marck did not abate when she became by her marriage Comtesse de Furstenberg;
indeed he could not exist without her; she lived and reigned in his house.  Her son, the Comte
de La Marck, lived there also, and her dominion over the Cardinal was so public, that whoever
had affairs with him spoke to the Countess, if he wished to succeed.  She had been very beautiful,
and at fifty-two years of age, still showed it, although tall, stout, and coarse featured as
a Swiss guard in woman's clothes.  She was, moreover, bold, audacious, talking loudly and always
with authority; was polished, however, and of good manners when she pleased.  Being the most
imperious woman in the world, the Cardinal was fairly tied to her apron-strings, and scarcely
dared to breathe in her presence.  In dress and finery she spent like a prodigal, played every
night, and lost large sums, oftentimes staking her jewels and her various ornaments.  She was
a woman who loved herself alone, who wished for everything, and who refused herself nothing,
not even, it was said, certain gallantries which the poor Cardinal was obliged to pay for,
as for everything else.  Her extravagance was such, that she was obliged to pass six or seven
months of the year in the country, in order to have enough to spend in Paris during the remainder
of the year.

It was to the Comtesse de Furstenberg, therefore, that Madame de Soubise addressed herself
in order to gain over the support of Cardinal de Furstenberg, in behalf of her son.  Rumour
said, and it was never contradicted, that Madame de Soubise paid much money to the Cardinal
through the Countess, in order to carry this point.  It is certain that in addition to the
prodigious pensions the Cardinal drew from the King, he touched at this time a gratification
of forty thousand crowns, that it was pretended had been long promised him.

Madame de Soubise having thus assured herself of the Countess and the Cardinal (and they having
been privately thanked by the King), she caused an order to be sent to Cardinal de Bouillon,
who was then at Rome, requesting him to ask the Pope in the name of the King, for a bull summoning
the Chapter of Strasbourg to meet and elect a coadjutor and a declaration of the eligibility
of the Abbe de Soubise.

But here a new obstacle arose in the path of Madame de Soubise.  Cardinal de Bouillon, a man
of excessive pride and pretension, who upon reaching Rome claimed to be addressed as "Most
Eminent Highness," and obtaining this title from nobody except his servants, set himself at
loggerheads with all the city--Cardinal de Bouillon, I say, was himself canon of Strasbourg,
and uncle of the Abbe d'Auvergne.  So anxious was the Cardinal to secure the advancement of
the Abbe d'Auvergne, that he had already made a daring and fraudulent attempt to procure for
him a cardinalship.  But the false representations which he made in order to carry his point,
having been seen through, his attempt came to nothing, and he himself lost all favour with
the King for his deceit.  He, however; hoped to make the Abbe d'Auvergne bishop of Strasbourg,
and was overpowered, therefore, when he saw this magnificent prey about to escape him.  The
news came upon him like a thunderbolt.  It was bad enough to see his hopes trampled under foot;
it was insupportable to be obliged to aid in crushing them.  Vexation so transported and blinded
him, that he forgot the relative positions of himself and of Madame de Soubise, and imagined
that he should be able to make the King break a resolution he had taken, and an engagement
he had entered into.  He sent therefore, as though he had been a great man, a letter to the
King, telling him that he had not thought sufficiently upon this matter, and raising scruples
against it.  At the same time he despatched a letter to the canons of Strasbourg, full of gall
and compliments, trying to persuade them that the Abbe de Soubise was too young for the honour
intended him, and plainly intimating that the Cardinal de Furstenberg had been gained over
by a heavy bribe paid to the Comtesse de Furstenberg.  These letters. made a terrible uproar.

I was at the palace on Tuesday, March 30th, and after supper I saw Madame de Soubise arrive,
leading the Comtesse de Furstenberg, both of whom posted themselves at the door of the King's
cabinet.  It was not that Madame de Soubise had not the privilege of entering if she pleased,
but she preferred making her complaint as public as the charges made against her by Cardinal
de Bouillon had become.  I approached in order to witness the scene.  Madame de Soubise appeared
scarcely able to contain herself, and the Countess seemed furious.  As the King passed, they
stopped him. Madame de Soubise said two words in a low tone.  The Countess in a louder strain
demanded justice against the Cardinal de Bouillon, who, she said, not content in his pride
and ambition with disregarding the orders of the King, had calumniated her and Cardinal de
Furstenberg in the most atrocious manner, and had not even spared Madame de Soubise herself.
The King replied to her with much politeness, assured her she should be contented, and passed on.

Madame de Soubise was so much the more piqued because Cardinal de Bouillon had acquainted the
King with the simony she had committed, and assuredly if he had not been ignorant of this he
would never have supported her in the affair.  She hastened therefore to secure the success
of her son, and was so well served by the whispered authority of the King, and the money she
had spent, that the Abbe de Soubise was elected by unanimity Coadjutor of Strasbourg.

As for the Cardinal de Bouillon, foiled in all his attempts to prevent the election, he wrote
a second letter to the King, more foolish than the first.  This filled the cup to overflowing.
For reply, he received orders, by a courier, to quit Rome immediately and to retire to Cluni
or to Tournus, at his choice, until further orders.  This order appeared so cruel to him that
he could not make up his mind to obey.  He was underdoyen of the sacred college.  Cibo, the
doyen, was no longer able to leave his bed.  To become doyen, it was necessary to be in Rome
when the appointment became vacant.  Cardinal de Bouillon wrote therefore to the King, begging
to be allowed to stay a short time, in order to pray the Pope to set aside this rule, and give
him permission to succeed to the doyenship, even although absent from Rome when it became vacant.
He knew he should not obtain this permission, but he asked for it in order to gain time, hoping
that in the meanwhile Cardinal Cibo might die, or even the Pope himself, whose health had been
threatened with ruin for some time.  This request of the Cardinal de Bouillon was refused.
There seemed nothing for him but to comply with the orders he had received. But he had evaded
them so long that he thought he might continue to do so.  He wrote to Pere la Chaise, begging
him to ask the King for permission to remain at Rome until the death of Cardinal Cibo, adding
that he would wait for a reply at Caprarole, a magnificent house of the Duke of Parma, at eight
leagues from Rome.  He addressed himself to Pere la Chaise, because M. de Torcy, to whom he
had previously written, had been forbidden to open his letters, and had sent him word to that
effect. Having, too, been always on the best of terms with the Jesuits, he hoped for good assistance
from Pere la Chaise.  But he found this door closed like that of M. de Torcy.  Pere la Chaise
wrote to Cardinal de Bouillon that he too was prohibited from opening his letters.  At the
same time a new order was sent to the Cardinal to set out immediately.  Just after he had read
it Cardinal Cibo died, and the Cardinal de Bouillon hastened at once to Rome to secure the
doyenship, writing to the King to say that he had done so, that he would depart in twenty-four
hours, and expressing a hope that this delay would not be refused him.  This was laughing at
the King and his orders, and becoming doyen in spite of him.  The King, therefore, displayed
his anger immediately he learnt this last act of disobedience.  He sent word immediately to
M. de Monaco to command the Cardinal de Bouillon to surrender his charge of grand chaplain,
to give up his cordon bleu, and to take down the arms of France from the door of his palace;
M. de Monaco was also ordered to prohibit all French people in Rome from seeing Cardinal de
Bouillon, or from having any communication with him.  M. de Monaco, who hated the Cardinal,
hastened willingly to obey these instructions.  The Cardinal appeared overwhelmed, but he did
not even then give in.  He pretended that his charge of grand chaplain was a crown office,
of which he could not be dispossessed, without resigning.  The King, out of all patience with
a disobedience so stubborn and so marked, ordered, by a decree in council, on the 12th September,
the seizure of all the Cardinal's estates, laical and ecclesiastical, the latter to be confiscated
to the state, the former to be divided into three portions, and applied to various uses.  The
same day the charge of grand chaplain was given to Cardinal Coislin, and that of chief chaplain
to the Bishop of Metz.  The despair of the Cardinal de Bouillon, on hearing of this decree,
was extreme.  Pride had hitherto hindered him from believing that matters would be pushed so
far against him.  He sent in his resignation only when it was no longer needed of him.  His
order he would not give up.  M. de Monaco warned him that, in case of refusal, he had orders
to snatch it from his neck.  Upon this the Cardinal saw the folly of holding out against the
orders of the King. He quitted then the marks of the order, but he was pitiful enough to wear
a narrow blue ribbon, with a cross of gold attached, under his cassock, and tried from time
to time to show a little of the blue.  A short time afterwards, to make the best of a bad bargain,
he tried to persuade himself and others, that no cardinal was at liberty to wear the orders
of any prince.  But it was rather late in the day to think of this, after having worn the order
of the King for thirty years, as grand chaplain; and everybody thought so, and laughed at the idea.

CHAPTER XVII

Chateauneuf, Secretary of State, died about this time.  He had asked that his son, La Vrilliere,
might be allowed to succeed him, and was much vexed that the King refused this favour.  The
news of Chateauneuf's death was brought to La Vrilliere by a courier, at five o'clock in the
morning. He did not lose his wits at the news, but at once sent and woke up the Princesse d'Harcourt,
and begged her to come and see him instantly. Opening his purse, he prayed her to go and see
Madame de Maintenon as soon as she got up, and propose his marriage with Mademoiselle de Mailly,
whom he would take without dowry, if the King gave him his father's appointments.  The Princesse
d'Harcourt, whose habit it was to accept any sum, from a crown upwards, willingly undertook
this strange business. She went upon her errand immediately, and then repaired to Madame de
Mailly, who without property, and burdened with a troop of children--sons and daughters, was
in no way averse to the marriage.

The King, upon getting up, was duly made acquainted with La Vrilliere's proposal, and at once
agreed to it.  There was only one person opposed to the marriage, and that was Mademoiselle
de Mailly.  She was not quite twelve years of age.  She burst out a-crying, and declared she
was very unhappy, that she would not mind marrying a poor man, if necessary, provided he was
a gentleman, but that to marry a paltry bourgeois, in order to make his fortune, was odious
to her.  She was furious against her mother and against Madame de Maintenon.  She could not
be kept quiet or appeased, or hindered from making grimaces at La Vrilliere and all his family,
who came to see her and her mother.

They felt it; but the bargain was made, and was too good to be broken. They thought Mademoiselle
de Mailly's annoyance would pass with her youth--but they were mistaken.  Mademoiselle de Mailly
always was sore at having been made Madame de la Vrilliere, and people often observed it.

At the marriage of Monseigneur the Duc de Bourgogne, the King had offered to augment considerably
his monthly income.  The young Prince, who found it sufficient, replied with thanks, and said
that if money failed him at any time he would take the liberty, of asking the King for more.
Finding himself short just now, he was as good as his word.  The King praised him highly, and
told him to ask whenever he wanted money, not through a third person, but direct, as he had
done in this instance.  The King, moreover, told the Duc de Bourgogne to play without fear,
for it was of no consequence how much such persons as he might lose.  The King was pleased
with confidence, but liked not less to see himself feared; and when timid people who spoke
to him discovered themselves, and grew embarrassed in their discourse, nothing better made
their court, or advanced their interests.

The Archbishop of Rheims presided this year over the assembly of the clergy, which was held
every five years.  It took place on this occasion at Saint Germains, although the King of England
occupied the chateau.  M. de Rheims kept open table there, and had some champagne that was
much vaunted.  The King of England, who drank scarcely any other wine, heard of this and asked
for some.  The Archbishop sent him six bottles.  Some time after, the King of England, who
had much relished the wine, sent and asked for more.  The Archbishop, more sparing of his wine
than of his money, bluntly sent word that his wine was not mad, and did not run through the
streets; and sent none.  However accustomed people might be to the rudeness of the Archbishop,
this appeared so strange that it was much spoken of: but that was all.

M. de Vendome took another public leave of the King, the Princes, and the Princesses, in order
to place himself again under the doctor's hands. He perceived at last that he was not cured,
and that it would be long before he was; so went to Anet to try and recover his health, but
without success better than before.  He brought back a face upon which his state was still
more plainly printed than at first.  Madame d'Uzes, only daughter of the Prince de Monaco,
died of this disease.  She was a woman of merit--very virtuous and unhappy--who merited a better
fate. M. d'Uzes was an obscure man, who frequented the lowest society, and suffered less from
its effects than his wife, who was much pitied and regretted.  Her children perished of the
same disease, and she left none behind her.--[Syphilis.  D.W.]

