You may say now that I have objected to literature dominating the arts, and yet I have drawn
from pictures a most complicated theory. I have felt a little, indeed, as if I was marching
through subtleties to the dismemberment of my mind, but I do not think I have anywhere contradicted
myself or suggested that an artist should work on these speculations. These may rightly arise
in the mind of the onlooker who will regard a work of art with his whole nature, not merely
with the aesthetic sense, and who will naturally pass from the first delight of vision into
a psychological analysis. A profound nature will always awaken profound reflections. There
are heads by Da Vinci as interesting in their humanity as Hamlet. When we see eyes that tempt
and allure with lips virginal in their purity, we feel in the face a union of things which
the dual nature of man is eternally desiring. It is the marriage of heaven and hell, the union
of spirit and flesh, each with their uncurbed desires; and what is impossible in life is in
his art, and is one of the secrets of its strange fascination. It may seem paradoxical to say
of Watts--a man of genius, who was always preaching through his art--that it is very difficult
to find what he really expresses. No one is ever for a moment in doubt about what is expressed
by Rossetti, Turner, Millet, Corot, or many contemporary artists who never preached at all,
but whose mood or vision peculiar to themselves is easily definable. With Watts the effort
at analyses is confused: first by his own statement about the ethical significance of his works,
which I think misleading, because while we may come away from his pictures with many feelings
of majesty or beauty or mystery, the ethical spirit is not the predominant one. That rapturous
winged spirit which he calls Love Triumphant might just as easily be called Music or Song,
and another allegory be attached to it without our feeling any more special fitness or unfitness
in the explanation. I see a beautiful exultant figure, but I do not feel love as the fundamental
mood in the painter, as I feel the religious mood is fundamental in the Angelus of Millet.
I do not need to look for a title to that or for the painting of The Shepherdess to feel how
earth and her children have become one in the vision of the painter; that the shepherdess is
not the subject, nor the sheep, nor the still evening, but altogether are one mood, one being,
in which all things move in harmony and are guided by the Great Shepherd. Well, I do not feel
that Love; or Charity, or Hope are expressed in this way in Watts, and that the ethical spirit
is not fundamental with him as the religious spirit is with Millet. He has an intellectual
conception of his moral idea, but is not emotionally obsessed by it, and the basis of a man's
art is not to be found in his intellectual conceptions, which are light things, but in his
character or rather in his temperament. We know, for all the poetical circumstances of Rossetti's
pictures, what desire it is that shines out of those ardent faces, and how with Leighton "the
form alone is eloquent," and that Tumer's God was light as surely as with any Persian worshipper
of the sun. Here and there they may have been tempted otherwise, but they never strayed far
from their temperamental way of expressing themselves in art. So that the first thing to be
dismissed in trying to understand Watts is Watts' own view of his art and its inspiration.
He is not the first distinguished man whose intellect has not proved equal to explaining rightly
its sources of power. Our next difficulty in discovering the real Watts arises because he did
not look at nature or life directly. He was overcome by great traditions. He almost persistently
looks at nature through one or two veils. There is a Phidian veil and a Venetian or rather
an Italian veil, and almost everything in life and nature which could not be expressed in terms
of these traditions he ignored. I might say that no artist of equal genius ever painted pictures
and brought so little fresh observation into his art except, perhaps, Burne-Jones. Both these
artists seem to have a secret and refined sympathy with Fuseli's famous outburst, "Damn Nature,
she always puts me out!" Even when the sitter came, Watts seems to have been uneasy unless
he could turn him into a Venetian nobleman or person of the Middle Ages, or could disguise
in some way the fact that Artist and Sitter belonged to the nineteenth century. He does not
seem to be aware that people must breathe even in pictures. His skies rest solidly on the shoulders
of his figures as if they were cut out to let the figures be inserted. If he were not a man
of genius there would have been an end of him. But he was a man of genius, and we must try
to understand the meaning of his acceptance of tradition. If we understand it in Watts we will
understand a great deal of contemporary art and literature which is called derivative, art
issuing out of art, and literature out of literature.

The fact is that this kind of art in which Watts and Burne-Jones were pioneers is an art which
has not yet come to its culmination or to any perfect expression of itself. There is a genuinely
individual impulse in it, and it is not derivative merely, although almost every phase of it
can be related to earlier art. It has nothing in common with the so-called grand school of
painting which produced worthless imitations of Michael Angelo and Raphael. It is feeling out
for a new world, and it is trying to use the older tradition as a bridge. The older art held
up a mirror to natural forms and brought them nearer to man. In the perfect culmination of
this new art one feels how a complete change might take place and natural forms be used to
express an internal nature or the soul of the artist. Colors and forms, like words after the
lapse of centuries, enlarge their significance. The earliest art was probably simple and literal--there
may have been the outline of a figure filled up with some flat color. Then as art became more
complex, colors began to have an emotional meaning quite apart from their original relation
to an object. The artist begins unconsciously to relate color more intimately to his own temperament
than to external nature. At last, after the lapse of ages, some sensitive artist begins to
imagine that he has discovered a complete language capable of expressing any mood of mind.
The passing of centuries has enriched every color, and left it related to some new phase of
the soul. Phidian or Michael Angelesque forms gather their own peculiar associations of divinity
or power. In fact, this new art uses the forms of the old as symbols or hieroglyphs to express
more complicated ideas than the older artists tried to depict.

Watts never attempted, for all his admiration of these men, to follow them in their efforts
to realize perfectly the forms that they conceived. They had done this once and for all, and
repetition may have seemed unnecessary. But the lofty temper awakened by those stupendous creations
could be aroused by a suggestion of their peculiar characteristics. Association of ideas will
in some subtle way bring us back to the Phidian demigods when we look at forms and draperies
vaguely suggestive of the Parthenon. I do not say that Watt's did this consciously, but instinctively
he felt compelled, with the gradual development of his own mind, to use the imaginative traditions
created by other artists as a language through which he might find expression peculiar to himself.
It is a highly intellectual art to which tradition was a necessity, as much as it is to the
poet, who when he speaks of "beauty" draws upon a sentiment created by millions of long-dead
lovers, or who, when he thinks of the "spirit," is, in his use of the word, the heir of countless
generations who brooded upon the mysteries.

Just as in Millet, the painter of peasants, there was a religious spirit shaping all things
into austere and elemental simplicities, so in Watts there was an intellectual spirit, seeking
everywhere for the traces of mind trying to express the bodiless and abstract. With Whitman
he seems to cry out, "The soul for ever and ever!" It is there in the astonishing head of Swinburne,
whom he reveals, if I may use a vulgar phrase, as a poetic "bounder," but illuminated and etherealized
by genius. It is in the head of Mill, the very symbol of the moral reasoning--mind. It is in
the face of Tennyson, with its too self-conscious seership, and in all those vague faces of
the imaginative paintings, into which, to use Pater's phrase, "the soul with all its maladies
has passed." In his pictures he draws on the effects of earlier art, and throws his sitters
back until they seem to belong to some nondescript mediaeval country, like the Bohemia of the
dramatists; and he darkens and shuts out the light of day that this starlight of soul may be
more clearly seen, and destroys, as far as he can, all traces of the century they live in,
for the mind lives in all the ages, and he would show it as the pilgrim of eternity. Because
Watts' art was necessarily so brooding and meditative, looking at life with half-closed eyes
and then shutting them to be alone with memory and the interpreter, his painting, so beautiful
and full of surety in early pictures like the Wounded Heron, grows to be often labored and
muddy, and his drawing uncertain. That he could draw and paint with the greatest, he every
now and then gave proof; but the surety of beautiful craftsmanship deserts those who have not
always their eye fixed on an object of vision; and Watts was not, like Blake or Shelley, one
of the proud seers whose visions are of "forms more real than living man." He seemed to feel
what his effects should be rather than to see them, or else his vision was fleeting and his
art was a laborious brooding to recapture the lost impression. In his color he always seems
to me to be second-hand, as if the bloom and freshness of his paint had worn off through previous
use by other artists. It seemed to be a necessity of his curiously intellectual art that only
traditional colors and forms should be employed, and it is only rarely we get the shock of
a new creation, and absolutely original design, as in Orpheus, where the passionate figure
turns to hold what is already a vanishing shadow.

Watts' art was an effort to invest his own age, an age of reason, with the nobilities engendered
in an age of faith. At the time Watts was at his prime his contemporaries were everywhere losing
belief in the spiritual conceptions of earlier periods; they were analyzing everything, and
were deciding that what was really true in religion, what gave it nobility, was its ethical
teaching; retain that, and religion might go, illustrating the truth of the Chinese philosopher
who said: "When the spirit is lost, men follow after charity and duty to one's neighbors."
The unity of belief was broken up into diverse intellectual conceptions. Men talked about love
and liberty, patriotism, duty, charity, and a whole host of abstractions moral and intellectual,
which they had convinced themselves were the essence of religion and the real cause of its
power over man. Whether Watts lost faith like his contemporaries I do not know, but their spirit
infected his art. He set himself to paint these abstractions; and because we cannot imagine
these abstractions with a form, we feel something fundamentally false in this side of his art.
He who paints a man, an angelic being, or a divine being, paints something we feel may have
life. But it is impossible to imagine Time with a body as it is to imagine a painting embodying
Newton's law of gravitation. It is because such abstractions do not readily take shape that
Watts drew so much on the imaginative tradition of his predecessors. Where these pictures are
impressive is where the artist slipped by his conscious aim, and laid hold of the nobility
peculiar to the men and women he used as symbols. It is not Time or Death which awes us in
Watts' picture, but majestical images of humanity; and Watts is at his greatest as an inventor
when humanity itself most occupies him when he depicts human life only, and lets it suggest
its own natural infinity, as in those images of the lovers drifting through the Inferno, with
whom every passion is burnt out and exhausted but the love through which they fell.

Life itself is more infinite, noble, and suggestive than thought. We soon come to the end of
the ingenious allegory. It tells only one story but where there is a perfect image of life
there is infinitude and mystery. We do not tire considering the long ancestry of expression
in a face. It may lead us back through the ages; but we do tire of the art which imprisons
itself within formulae, and says to the spectator: "In this way and in no other shall you regard
what is before you." No man is profound enough to explain the nature of his own inspiration.
Socrates says that the poet utters many things which are truer than he himself understands.
The same thing applies to many a great artist, who, when he paints tree or field, or face,
or form, finds that there comes on him a mysterious quickening of his nature, and he paints
he knows not what. It is like and unlike what his eyes have seen. It may be the same field,
but we feel there the presence of the spirit. It may be the same figure, but it is made transcendental,
as when the Word had become flesh and dwelt among us. His inspiration is akin to that of the
prophets of old, whose words rang but for an instant and were still, yet they created nations
whose only boundaries were the silences where their speech had not been heard. His majestical
figures are prophecies. His ecstatic landscapes bring us nigh to the beauty which was in Eden.
His art is a divine adventure, in which he, like all of us who are traveling in so many ways,
seeks, consciously or unconsciously, to regain the lost unity with nature and the knowledge
of his own immortal being, and it is so you will best understand it.

1906

AN ARTIST OF GAELIC IRELAND

The art of Hone and the elder Yeats, while in spirit filled with a sentiment which was the
persistence of ancient moods into modern times, still has not the external characteristics
of Gaeldom; but looking at the pictures of the younger Yeats it seemed to me that for the first
time we had something which could be called altogether Gaelic. The incompleteness of the sketches
suggests the term "folk" as expressing exactly the inspiration of this very genuine art. We
have had abundance of Irish folk-lore, but we knew nothing of folk-art until the figures of
Jack Yeats first romped into our imagination a few years ago. It was the folk-feeling lit up
by genius and interpreted by love. It was not, and is now less than ever, the patronage bestowed
by the intellectual artist on the evidently picturesque forms of a life below his own.

I suspect Jack Yeats thinks the life of the Sligo fisherman is as good a method of life as
any, and that he could share it for a long time without being in the least desirous of a return
to the comfortable life of convention. The name of Muglas Hyde suggests itself to me as a literary
parallel. These sketches have all the prodigality of invention, the exuberance of gesture,
and animation of "The Twisting of the Rope," and the poetry is of as high or higher an order.
In the drawing called "Midsummer Eve" there is a mystery which is not merely the mystery of
night and shadow. It is the mystery of the mingling of spirit with spirit which is suggested
by the solitary figure with face upturned to the stars. We have all memories of such summer
nights when into the charmed heart falls the enchantment we call ancient, though the days have
no fellows, nor will ever have any, when the earth glows with the dusky hues of rich pottery,
and the stars, far withdrawn into faery altitudes, dance with a gaiety which is more tremendous
and solemn than any repose. The night of this picture is steeped in such a dream, and I know
not whether it is communicated, or a feeling arising in myself; but there seems everywhere
in it the breathing of life, subtle, exultant, penetrating. It is conceived in the mood of
awe and prayer, which makes Millet's pictures as religious as any whichever hung over the altar,
for surely the "Angelus" is one of the most spiritual of pictures, though the peasants bow
their heads and worship in a temple not built with hands. I do not, of course, compare otherwise
than in the mood the "Midsummer Eve" to such a masterpiece; but there is a kinship between
the beauty revealed in great and in little things, and our thought turns from the stars to
the flowers with no feeling of descent into an alien world. But this mood is rare in life as
in art, and it is only occasionally that the younger Yeats becomes the interpreter of the spirituality
of the peasant. He is more often the recorder of the extravagant energies of the race-course
and the market-place, where he finds herded together all the grotesque humors of West Irish life.

We recognize his figures as distinctly Irish. Here the old rollicking Lever and Lover type
of Irishmen reappear, hunting like the very devil, with faces set in the last ecstasy of rapid
motion. There is an excess of energy in these furious riders which almost gives them a symbolic
character. They seem to ride on some passionate business of the soul rather than for any transitory
excitement of the body. And besides these wild horse-men there are quiet and lovely figures
like "A Mother of the Rosses," holding her child to her breast in an opalescent twilight, through
which the boat that carries her moves. There are always large and noble outlines, which suggest
that if Jack Yeats had more grandiose ambitions he might have been the Millet of Irish rural
life, but he is too much the symbolist, hating all but essentials, to elaborate his art.

In writing of Jack Yeats mention must be made of his black and white work, which at its best
has a primitive intensity. The lines have a kind of Gothic quality, reminding one of the rude
glooms, the lights and lines of some half-barbarian cathedral. They are very expressive and
never undecided. The artist always knows what he is going to do. There is no doubt he has a
clear image before him when he takes up pen or brush. A strong will is always directing the
strong lines, forcing them to repeat an image present to the inner eye. In his early days Jack
Yeats loafed about the quays at Sligo, and we may be sure he was at all the races, and paid
his penny to go into the side-shows, and see the freaks, the Fat Woman and the Skeleton Man.
It was probably at this period of his life he was captured by pirates of the Spanish Main.
My remembrance of Irish county towns at that time is that no literature flourished except the
Penny Dreadful and the local press. I may be doing Jack Yeats an injustice when hailing him
at the beginning of a fascinating career I yet suspect a long background of Penny Dreadfuls
behind it. How else could he have drawn his pirates? They are the only pirates in art who manifest
the true pride, glory, beauty, and terror of their calling as the romantic heart of childhood
conceives of it. The pirate has been lifted up to a strange kind of poetry in some of Jack
Yeats' pictures. I remember one called "Walking the Plank." The solemn theatrical face, lifted
up to the blue sky in a last farewell to the wild world and its lawless freedom, haunted me
for days. There was also a pen-and-ink drawing I wish I could reproduce here. A young buccaneer,
splendid in evil bravery, leaned across a bar where a strange, beastly, little, old, withered,
rat-like figure was drawing the drink. The little figure was like a devil with the soul all
concentrated into malice, and the whole picture affected one with terror like a descent into
some ferocious human hell.

In all these figures, pirates or peasants, there is an ever present suggestion of poetry; it
is in the skies, or in the distance, or in the colors; and these people who laugh in the fairs
will have after hours as solemn as the quiet star-gazer in the "Midsummer Eve." This poetry
is evident in the oddest ways, and escapes analysis, so elusive and so original is it, as in
the "Street of Shows." Nothing at first thought seems more hopelessly remote from poetry than
the country circus, with its lurid posters of the Giant Schoolgirl, the Petrified Man, and
the Mermaid, all in strong sunlight; but the heart carries with it its own mood, and this flaring
scene has undergone some indefinite transformation by the alchemy of genius, and it assumes
the character of a fairy tale or Arabian Nights Entertainment imagined in the fantastic dreams
of childhood. The sleepy doorkeeper is a goblin or gnome. Perhaps the charm of it all is that
it is so evidently illusion, for when the heart is strong in its own surety it can look out
on the world, and smile on things which would be unendurable if felt to be permanent, knowing
they are only dreams.

Many of these sketches have a largeness, almost a nobility, of conception, which is, I think,
a gift from father to son. "After the Harvest's Saved" is something elemental. The "Post-car"
suggests the horses of the sun, or the stage coach in De Quincey's extraordinary dream, when
the opium had finally rioted in his brain, and transformed his stage-coach into a chariot carrying
news of some everlasting victory. Blake has said "exuberance is genius," and there is an excess
of energy or passion, or a dilation of the forms, or a peace deeper than mere quietude in the
figures of Mr. Yeats' pictures, which gives them that symbolic character which genius always
impresses on its works.

The coloring grows better every year; it is more varied and purer. It is sometimes sombre,
as in the tragic and dramatic "Simon the Cyrenian," and sometimes rich and flowerlike, but
always charged with sentiment, and there is a curious fitness in it even when it is evidently
unreal. These blues and purples and pale greens--what crowd ever seemed clad in such twilight
colors? And yet we accept it as natural, for this opalescence is always in the mist-laden air
of the West; it enters into the soul today as it did into the soul of the ancient Gael, who
called it Ildathach--the many-colored land; it becomes part of the atmosphere of the mind;
and I think Mr. Yeats means here to express, by one of the inventions of genius, that this
dim radiant coloring of his figures is the fitting symbol of the fairyland which is in their
hearts. I have not felt so envious of any artist's gift for a long time; not envy of his power
of expression, but of his way of seeing things. We are all seeking today for some glimpse of
the fairyland our fathers knew; but all the fairylands, the Silver Cloud World, the Tirnanoge,
the Land of Heart's Desire, rose like dreams out of the human soul, and in tracking them there
Mr. Yeats has been more fortunate than us all, for he has come to the truth, perhaps hardly
conscious of it himself.

1902

TWO IRISH ARTISTS

It is unjust to an artist to write on the spur of the moment of his work--of the just seen
picture which pleases or displeases. For what instantly delights the eye may never win its
way into the heart, and what repels at first may steal later on into the understanding, and
find its interpretation in a deeper mood. The final test of a picture, or of any work of art,
is its power of enduring charm. There are many circles in the Paradise of Beautiful Memories,
and half unconsciously, but with a justice, we at last place each in its hierarchy, remote
or near to the centre of our being; and I propose here rather to speak of the impression left
in my memory after seeing the work of Yeats and Hone for many years, than to describe in detail
the pictures--some new, some familiar--which by a happy thought have been gathered together
for exhibition. To tell an artist that you remember his pictures with love after many years
is the highest praise you can give him; and to distinguish the impression produced from others
is a pleasure I am glad to be here allowed.

An artist like Mr. Yeats, whose main work has been in portraiture, must often find himself
before sitters with whom he has little sympathy, and we all expect to find portraits which
do not interest us, because the interpreter has been at fault, and has failed in his vision.
With the born craftsman, who always gives us beautiful brushwork, we do not expect these inequalities,
but with Mr. Yeats technical power is not the most prominent characteristic. He broods or dreams
over his sitters, and his meditation always tends to the discovery of some spiritual or intellectual
life in them, or some hidden charm in the nature, or something to love; and if he finds what
he seeks, we are sure, not always of a complete picture, but of a poetic illumination, a revelation
of character, a secret sweetness for which we forgive the weakness or indecision manifest here
and there, and which are relics of the hours before the final surety was attained.

I do not know what Mr. Yeats' philosophy of life is, but in his work he has been over-mastered
by the spirit of his race, and he belongs to those who from the earliest dawn of Ireland have
sought for the Heart's Desire, and who have refined away the world, until only fragments remained
to them. They have not accepted life as it is, and Mr. Yeats could not paint like Reynolds
or Romney the beauty of every day in its best attire. He is like the Irish poets who have rarely
left a complete description of women, but who speak of some transitory motion or fragile charm--"a
thin palm like foam of the sea," "a white body," or in such vague phrases, until it seems a
spirit is praised and not flesh and blood. I remember the faces of women and children in his
pictures where everything is blurred or obscured, save faces which have a nameless charm. They
look at you with long-remembered glances out of the brooding hour of twilight, out of reverie
and dream. It is the hidden heart which looks out, and we love these women and children for
this, for surely the heart's desire is its own secret.

His portraits of men have kindred qualities, and the magnificent picture of John O'Leary shows
him at his best. It is itself a symbol of the movement of which O'Leary was the last great
representative. The stately patriarchal head of the old chief is the head of the idealist,
so sure of his own truth that he must act, and, if needs be, become the martyr for his ideal.
But the delicate hands are not the hands of an empire-breaker. This portrait will probably
find its last resting-place in the National Gallery, where, with a curious irony, the Government
places the portraits of the dead rebels who gave its statesmen many an anxious day and many
a nightmare; and so it will go on, perhaps, until the contemplation of these pictures inspires
some boy with an equal or better head and a stronger hand, and then--.

But to return to Mr. Yeats. Some earlier pictures show him attempting to paint directly the
ideal world of romance and poetry; yet interesting as these are, they do not convey the same
impression of mystery as the pictures of today. Indeed, the light seen behind or through a
veil is always more suggestive than the unveiled light. It may be that the spirit is a formless
breath which pervades form, and it is better revealed as a light in the eyes, as a brooding
expression, than by the choice of ancient days and other-world subjects, where the shapes can
be molded to ideal forms by the artist's will. However it is, it is certain that Millet, the
realist, is more spiritual than Moreau or Burne-Jones for all their archaic design; and Mr.
Yeats, who, as his King Goll shows, might have been a great romantic painter, has probably
chosen wisely, and has painted more memorable pictures than if he had gone back to the fairyland
of Celtic mythology.

To turn from Yeats to Hone is to turn from the lighted hearth to the wilderness. Humanity is
very far away, or is huddled up under immense skies, where it seems of less importance than
the rocks. The earth on which men have lived, where the work of their hand is evident, with
all the sentiment of the presence of man, with smoke arising from numberless homes, is foreign
to Mr. Hone. The monsters of the primeval world might sprawl on the rocks, for all the evidence
of lapse of time since their day, in many of his pictures. He, too, has refined away his world
until only fragments of the earth remain to him where he can dream in; and these are waste
places, where the salt of the sea is in the wind, and the skies are gray and vapor-laden, or
the loneliness of dim twilights are over level sands. Whatever else he paints is devoid of
its proper interest, for he seems to impose on the cattle in the fields and on the habitable
places a sentiment alien to their nature. He has a mind with but one impressive mood, and his
spirit is never kindled, save in the society where none intrude; but in his own domain he is
a master, and is always sure of himself and his effect. There is no tentative, undecisive brushwork,
such as we often see in the subtle search for the unrevealed, which makes or mars Mr. Yeats'
work. He is at home in his peculiar world, while the other is always seeking for it.

"A Sunset on Malahide Sands" shows a greater intensity than is usual even in Mr. Hone's work.
There is something thrilling in this twilight trembling over the deserted world. Philosophies
may prove very well in the lecture-room, says Whitman, and not prove at all under the sky and
stars. Pictures likewise may seem beautiful in a gallery, yet look thin and unreal where, with
a turn of the head, one could look out at the pictures created hour after hour by the Master
of the Beautiful; but there is some magic in this vision made up of elemental light, darkness,
and loneliness, and we feel awed as if we knew the Spirit was hidden in His works. But primitive
as this peculiar world is, and remote from humanity, it is just here we find a human revelation;
for is not all art a symbol of the creative mind, and if we were wise enough we would understand
that in art the light on every cloud, and the clear spaces above the cloud, and the shadows
of the earth beneath are made out of the lights, infinitudes, and shadows of the soul, and
are selected from nature because of some correspondence, unconscious or half felt. But these
things belong more to the psychology of the artist mind than to the appreciation of its work.
I have said enough, I hope, to attract to the work of these artists, in a mood of true understanding,
those who would like to believe in the existence in Ireland of a genuine art. For ignored and
uncared for as art is, we have some names to be proud of, and of these Mr. Yeats and Mr. Hone
are foremost.

1902

"ULSTER"

AN OPEN LETTER TO MR.