Julien looked at her with an uneasy kind of admiration.  She was walking slowly now, grave
and thoughtful, as if in church.  Her white hood had fallen on her shoulders, and her hair,
slightly stirred by the wind, floated like a dark aureole around her pale face.  Her luminous
eyes gleamed between the double fringes of her eyelids, and her mobile nostrils quivered with
suppressed emotion.  As she passed along, the brambles from the wayside, intermixed with ivy,
and other hardy  plants, caught on the hem of her dress and formed a verdant train, giving
her the appearance of the high-priestess of some mysterious temple of Nature. At this moment,
she identified herself so perfectly with her nickname, "queen of the woods," that Julien, already
powerfully affected by her peculiar and striking style of beauty, began to experience a superstitious
dread of her influence.  His Catholic scruples, or the remembrance of certain pious lectures
administered in his childhood, rendered him distrustful, and he reproached himself for the
interest he took in the conversation of this seductive creature.  He recalled the legends of
temptations to which the Evil One used to subject the anchorites of old, by causing to appear
before them the attractive but illusive forms of the heathen deities.  He wondered whether
he were not becoming the sport of the same baleful influence; if, like the Lamias and Dryads
of antiquity, this queen of the woods were not some spirit of the elements, incarnated in human
form and sent to him for the purpose of dragging his soul down to perdition.

In this frame of mind he followed in her footsteps, cautiously, and at a distance, when she
suddenly turned, as if waiting for him to rejoin her. He then perceived that they had reached
the end of the copse, and before them lay an open space, on which the cut lumber lay in cords,
forming dark heaps on the frosty ground.  Here and there were allotments of chosen trees and
poles, among which a thin spiral of smoke indicated the encampment of the cutters.  Reine made
straight for them, and immediately presented the new owner of the chateau to the workmen. 
They made their awkward obeisances, scrutinizing him in the mistrustful manner customary with
the peasants of mountainous regions when they meet strangers.  The master workman then turned
to Reine, replying to her remarks in a respectful but familiar tone:

"Make yourself easy, mamselle, we shall do our best and rush things in order to get through
with the work.  Besides, if you will come this way with me, you will see that there is no idling;
we are just now going to fell an oak, and before a quarter of an hour is over it will be lying
on the ground, cut off as neatly as if with a razor."

They drew near the spot where the first strokes of the axe were already resounding.  The giant
tree did not seem affected by them, but remained haughty and immovable.  Then the blows redoubled
until the trunk began to tremble from the base to the summit, like a living thing.  The steel
had made the bark, the sapwood, and even the core of the tree, fly in shivers; but the oak
had resumed its impassive attitude, and bore stoically the assaults of the workmen.  Looking
upward, as it reared its proud and stately head, one would have affirmed that it never could
fall. Suddenly the woodsmen fell back; there was a moment of solemn and terrible suspense;
then the enormous trunk heaved and plunged down among the brushwood with an alarming crash
of breaking branches.  A sound as of lamentation rumbled through the icy forest, and then all
was still.

The men, with unconscious emotion, stood contemplating the monarch oak lying prostrate on the
ground.  Reine had turned pale; her dark eyes glistened with tears.

"Let us go," murmured she to Julien; "this death of a tree affects me as if it were that of
a Christian."

They took leave of the woodsmen, and reentered the forest.  Reine kept silence and her companion
was at a loss to resume the conversation; so they journeyed along together quietly until they
reached a border line, whence they could perceive the smoke from the roofs of Vivey.

"You have only to go straight down the hill to reach your home," said she, briefly; "au revoir,
Monsieur de Buxieres."

Thus they quitted each other, and, looking back, he saw that she slackened her speed and went
dreamily on in the direction of Planche-au- Vacher.

CHAPTER V

LOVE'S INDISCRETION

In the mountainous region of Langres, spring can hardly be said to appear before the end of
May.  Until that time the cold weather holds its own; the white frosts, and the sharp, sleety
April showers, as well as the sudden windstorms due to the malign influence of the ice-gods,
arrest vegetation, and only a few of the more hardy plants venture to put forth their trembling
shoots until later.  But, as June approaches and the earth becomes warmed through by the sun,
a sudden metamorphosis is effected.  Sometimes a single night is sufficient for the floral
spring to burst forth in all its plenitude.  The hedges are alive with lilies and woodruffs;
the blue columbines shake their foolscap-like blossoms along the green side-paths; the milky
spikes of the Virgin plant rise slender and tall among the bizarre and many-colored orchids.
Mile after mile, the forest unwinds its fairy show of changing scenes.  Sometimes one comes
upon a spot of perfect verdure; at other times one wanders in almost complete darkness under
the thick interlacing boughs of the ashtrees, through which occasional gleams of light fall
on the dark soil or on the spreading ferns.  Now the wanderer emerges upon an open space so
full of sunshine that the strawberries are already ripening; near them are stacked the tender
young trees, ready for spacing, and the billets of wood piled up and half covered with thistle
and burdock leaves; and a little farther away, half hidden by tall weeds, teeming with insects,
rises the peaked top of the woodsman's hut.  Here one walks beside deep, grassy trenches, which
appear to continue without end, along the forest level; farther, the wild mint and the centaurea
perfume the shady nooks, the oaks and lime-trees arch their spreading branches, and the honeysuckle
twines itself round the knotty shoots of the hornbeam, whence the thrush gives forth her joyous,
sonorous notes.

Not only in the forest, but also in the park belonging to the chateau, and in the village orchards,
spring had donned a holiday costume. Through the open windows, between the massive bunches
of lilacs, hawthorn, and laburnum blossoms, Julien de Buxieres caught glimpses of rolling meadows
and softly tinted vistas.  The gentle twittering of the birds and the mysterious call of the
cuckoo, mingled with the perfume of flowers, stole into his study, and produced a sense of
enjoyment as novel to him as it was delightful.  Having until the present time lived a sedentary
life in cities, he had had no opportunity of experiencing this impression of nature in her
awakening and luxuriant aspect; never had he felt so completely under the seductive influence
of the goddess Maia than at this season when the abundant sap exudes in a white foam from the
trunk of the willow; when between the plant world and ourselves a magnetic current seems to
exist, which seeks to wed their fraternizing emanations with our own personality.  He was oppressed
by the vividness of the verdure, intoxicated with the odor of vegetation, agitated by the confused
music of the birds, and in this May fever of excitement, his thoughts wandered with secret
delight to Reine Vincart, to this queen of the woods, who was the personification of all the
witchery of the forest. Since their January promenade in the glades of Charbonniere, he had
seen her at a distance, sometimes on Sundays in the little church at Vivey, sometimes like
a fugitive apparition at the turn of a road.  They had also exchanged formal salutations, but
had not spoken to each other. More than once, after the night had fallen, Julien had stopped
in front of the courtyard of La Thuiliere, and watched the lamps being lighted inside.  But
he had not ventured to knock at the door of the house; a foolish timidity had prevented him;
so he had returned to the chateau, dissatisfied and reproaching himself for allowing his awkward
shyness to interpose, as it were, a wall of ice between himself and the only person whose acquaintance
seemed to him desirable.

At other times he would become alarmed at the large place a woman occupied in his thoughts,
and he congratulated himself on having resisted the dangerous temptation of seeing Mademoiselle
Vincart again.  He acknowledged that this singular girl had for him an attraction against which
he ought to be on his guard.  Reine might be said to live alone at La Thuiliere, for her father
could hardly be regarded seriously as a protector.  Julien's visits might have compromised
her, and the young man's severe principles of rectitude forbade him to cause scandal which
he could not repair.  He was not thinking of marriage, and even had his thoughts inclined that
way, the proprieties and usages of society which he had always in some degree respected, would
not allow him to wed a peasant girl.  It was evident, therefore, that both prudence and uprightness
would enjoin him to carry on any future relations with Mademoiselle Vincart with the greatest
possible reserve.

Nevertheless, and in spite of these sage reflections, the enchanting image of Reine haunted
him more than was at all reasonable.  Often, during his hours of watchfulness, he would see
her threading the avenues of the forest, her dark hair half floating in the breeze, and wearing
her white hood and her skirt bordered with ivy.  Since the spring had returned, she had become
associated in his mind with all the magical effects of nature's renewal.  He discovered the
liquid light of her dark eyes in the rippling darkness of the streams; the lilies recalled
the faintly tinted paleness of her cheeks; the silene roses, scattered throughout the hedges,
called forth the remembrance of the young maiden's rosy lips, and the vernal odor of the leaves
appeared to him like an emanation of her graceful and wholesome nature.

This state of feeling began to act like an obsession, a sort of witchcraft, which alarmed him.
What was she really, this strange creature?  A peasant indeed, apparently; but there was also
something more refined and cultivated about her, due, doubtless, to her having received her
education in a city school.  She both felt and expressed herself differently from ordinary
country girls, although retaining the frankness and untutored charm of rustic natures.  She
exercised an uneasy fascination over Julien, and at times he returned to the superstitious
impression made upon him by Reine's behavior and discourse in the forest. He again questioned
with himself whether this female form, in its untamed beauty, did not enfold some spirit of
temptation, some insidious fairy, similar to the Melusine, who appeared to Count Raymond in
the forest of Poitiers.

Most of the time he would himself laugh at this extravagant supposition, but, while endeavoring
to make light of his own cowardice, the idea still haunted and tormented him.  Sometimes, in
the effort to rid himself of the persistence of his own imagination, he would try to exorcise
the demon who had got hold of him, and this exorcism consisted in despoiling the image of his
temptress of the veil of virginal purity with which his admiration had first invested her.
Who could assure him, after all, that this girl, with her independent ways, living alone at
her farm, running through the woods at all hours, was as irreproachable as he had imagined?
In the village, certainly, she was respected by all; but people were very tolerant--very easy,
in fact--on the question of morals in this district, where the gallantries of Claude de Buxieres
were thought quite natural, where the illegitimacy of Claudet offended no one's sense of the
proprieties, and where the after-dinner conversations, among the class considered respectable,
were such as Julien had listened to with repugnance.  Nevertheless, even in his most suspicious
moods, Julien had never dared broach the subject to Claudet.

Every time that the name of Reine Vincart had come to his lips, a feeling of bashfulness, in
addition to his ordinary timidity, had prevented him from interrogating Claudet concerning
the character of this mysterious queen of the woods.  Like all novices in love-affairs Julien
dreaded that his feelings should be divined, at the mere mention of the young girl's name.
He preferred to remain isolated, concentrating in himself his desires, his trouble and his doubts.

Yet, whatever efforts he made, and however firmly he adhered to his resolution of silence,
the hypochondria from which he suffered could not escape the notice of the 'grand chasserot'.
He was not clear-sighted enough to discern the causes, but he could observe the effects.  It
provoked him to find that all his efforts to enliven his cousin had proved futile.  He had
cudgelled his brains to comprehend whence came these fits of terrible melancholy, and, judging
Julien by himself, came to the conclusion that his ennui proceeded from an excess of strictness
and good behavior.

"Monsieur de Buxieres," said he, one evening when they were walking silently, side by side,
in the avenues of the park, which resounded with the song of the nightingales, "there is one
thing that troubles me, and that is that you do not confide in me."

"What makes you think so, Claudet?"  demanded Julien, with surprise.

"Paybleu!  the way you act.  You are, if I may say so, too secretive. When you wanted to make
amends for Claude de Buxieres's negligence, and proposed that I should live here with you,
I accepted without any ceremony.  I hoped that in giving me a place at your fire and your table,
you would also give me one in your affections, and that you would allow me to share your sorrows,
like a true brother comrade--"

"I assure you, my dear fellow, that you are mistaken.  If I had any serious trouble on my mind,
you should be the first to know it."

"Oh!  that's all very well to say; but you are unhappy all the same--one can see it in your
mien, and shall I tell you the reason?  It is that you are too sedate, Monsieur de Buxieres;
you have need of a sweetheart to brighten up your days."

"Ho, ho!"  replied Julien, coloring, "do you wish to have me married, Claudet?"

"Ah!  that's another affair.  No; but still I should like to see you take some interest in
a woman--some gay young person who would rouse you up and make you have a good time.  There
is no lack of such in the district, and you would only have the trouble of choosing."

M. de Buxieres's color deepened, and he was visibly annoyed.

"That is a singular proposition," exclaimed he, after awhile; "do you take me for a libertine?"

"Don't get on your high horse, Monsieur de Buxieres!  There would be no one hurt.  The girls
I allude to are not so difficult to approach."

"That has nothing to do with it, Claudet; I do not enjoy that kind of amusement."

"It is the kind that young men of our age indulge in, all the same. Perhaps you think there
would be difficulties in the way.  They would not be insurmountable, I can assure you; those
matters go smoothly enough here.  You slip your arm round her waist, give her a good, sounding
salute, and the acquaintance is begun.  You have only to improve it!"

"Enough of this," interrupted Julien, harshly, "we never can agree on such topics!"

"As you please, Monsieur de Buxieres; since you do not like the subject, we will not bring
it up again.  If I mentioned it at all, it was that I saw you were not interested in either
hunting or fishing, and thought you might prefer some other kind of game.  I do wish I knew
what to propose that would give you a little pleasure," continued Claudet, who was profoundly
mortified at the ill-success of his overtures.  "Now!  I have it.  Will you come with me to-morrow,
to the Ronces woods?  The charcoal- dealers who are constructing their furnaces for the sale,
will complete their dwellings this evening and expect to celebrate in the morning. They call
it watering the bouquet, and it is the occasion of a little festival, to which we, as well
at the presiding officials of the cutting, are invited.  Naturally, the guests pay their share
in bottles of wine. You can hardly be excused from showing yourself among these good people.
It is one of the customs of the country.  I have promised to be there, and it is certain that
Reine Vincart, who has bought the Ronces property, will not fail to be present at the ceremony."

Julien had already the words on his lips for declining Claudet's offer, when the name of Reine
Vincart produced an immediate change in his resolution.  It just crossed his mind that perhaps
Claudet had thrown out her name as a bait and an argument in favor of his theories on the facility
of love-affairs in the country.  However that might be, the allusion to the probable presence
of Mademoiselle Vincart at the coming fete, rendered young Buxieres more tractable, and he
made no further difficulties about accompanying his cousin.

The next morning, after partaking hastily of breakfast, they started on their way toward the
cutting.  The charcoal-dealers had located themselves on the border of the forest, not far
from the spot where, in the month of January, Reine and Julien had visited the wood cutters.
Under the sheltering branches of a great ash tree, the newly erected but raised its peaked
roof covered with clods of turf, and two furnaces, just completed, occupied the ground lately
prepared.  One of them, ready for use, was covered with the black earth called 'frazil', which
is extracted from the site of old charcoal works; the other, in course of construction, showed
the successive layers of logs ranged in circles inside, ready for the fire.  The workmen moved
around, going and coming; first, the head-man or patron, a man of middle age, of hairy chest,
embrowned visage, and small beady eyes under bushy eyebrows; his wife, a little, shrivelled,
elderly woman; their daughter, a thin awkward girl of seventeen, with fluffy hair and a cunning,
hard expression; and finally, their three boys, robust young fellows, serving their apprenticeship
at the trade.  This party was reenforced by one or two more single men, and some of the daughters
of the woodchoppers, attracted by the prospect of a day of dancing and joyous feasting.

These persons were sauntering in and out under the trees, waiting for the dinner, which was
to be furnished mainly by the guests, the contribution of the charcoal-men being limited to
a huge pot of potatoes which the patroness was cooking over the fire, kindled in front of the hut.

The arrival of Julien and Claudet, attended by the small cowboy, puffing and blowing under
a load of provisions, was hailed with exclamations of gladness and welcome.  While one of the
assistants was carefully unrolling the big loaves of white bread, the enormous meat pastry,
and the bottles encased in straw, Reine Vincart appeared suddenly on the scene, accompanied
by one of the farm-hands, who was also tottering under the weight of a huge basket, from the
corners of which peeped the ends of bottles, and the brown knuckle of a smoked ham.  At sight
of the young proprietress of La Thuiliere, the hurrahs burst forth again, with redoubled and
more sustained energy.  As she stood there smiling, under the greenish shadow cast by the ashtrees,
Reine appeared to Julien even more seductive than among the frosty surroundings of the previous
occasion.  Her simple and rustic spring costume was marvellously becoming: a short blue-and-yellow
striped skirt, a tight jacket of light- colored material, fitted closely to the waist, a flat
linen collar tied with a narrow blue ribbon, and a bouquet of woodruff at her bosom.  She wore
stout leather boots, and a large straw hat, which she threw carelessly down on entering the
hut.  Among so many faces of a different type, all somewhat disfigured by hardships of exposure,
this lovely face with its olive complexion, lustrous black eyes, and smiling red lips, framed
in dark, soft, wavy hair resting on her plump shoulders, seemed to spread a sunshiny glow over
the scene.  It was a veritable portrayal of the "queen of the woods," appearing triumphant
among her rustic subjects. As an emblem of her royal prerogative, she held in her hand an enormous
bouquet of flowers she had gathered on her way: honeysuckles, columbine, all sorts of grasses
with shivering spikelets, black alder blossoms with their white centres, and a profusion of
scarlet poppies.  Each of these exhaled its own salubrious springlike perfume, and a light
cloud of pollen, which covered the eyelashes and hair of the young girl with a delicate white
powder.

"Here, Pere Theotime," said she, handing her collection over to the master charcoal-dealer,
"I gathered these for you to ornament the roof of your dwelling."

She then drew near to Claudet; gave him her hand in comrade fashion, and saluted Julien:

"Good-morning, Monsieur de Buxieres, I am very glad to see you here. Was it Claudet who brought
you, or did you come of your own accord?"

While Julien, dazed and bewildered, was seeking a reply, she passed quickly to the next group,
going from one to another, and watching with interest the placing of the bouquet on the summit
of the hut.  One of the men brought a ladder and fastened the flowers to a spike.  When they
were securely attached and began to nod in the air, he waved his hat and shouted: "Hou, houp!"
This was the signal for going to table.

The food had been spread on the tablecloth under the shade of the ash- trees, and all the guests
sat around on sacks of charcoal; for Reine and Julien alone they had reserved two stools, made
by the master, and thus they found themselves seated side by side.  Soon a profound, almost
religious, silence indicated that the attack was about to begin; after which, and when the
first fury of their appetites had been appeased, the tongues began to be loosened: jokes and
anecdotes, seasoned with loud bursts of laughter, were bandied to and fro under the spreading
branches, and presently the wine lent its aid to raise the spirits of the company to an exuberant
pitch.  But there was a certain degree of restraint observed by these country folk.  Was it
owing to Reine's presence? Julien noticed that the remarks of the working-people were in a
very much better tone than those of the Auberive gentry, with whom he had breakfasted; the
gayety of these children of the woods, although of a common kind, was always kept within decent
limits, and he never once had occasion to feel ashamed.  He felt more at ease among them than
among the notables of the borough, and he did not regret having accepted Claudet's invitation.

"I am glad I came," murmured he in Reine's ear, "and I never have eaten with so much enjoyment!"

"Ah!  I am glad of it," replied the young girl, gayly, "perhaps now you will begin to like
our woods."

When nothing was left on the table but bones and empty bottles, Pere Theotime took a bottle
of sealed wine, drew the cork, and filled the glasses.

"Now," said he, "before christening our bouquet, we will drink to Monsieur de Buxieres, who
has brought us his good wine, and to our sweet lady, Mademoiselle Vincart."

The glasses clinked, and the toasts were drunk with fervor.

"Mamselle Reine," resumed Pere Theotime, with a certain amount of solemnity, "you can see,
the hut is built; it will be occupied to-night, and I trust good work will be done.  You can
perceive from here our first furnace, all decorated and ready to be set alight.  But, in order
that good luck shall attend us, you yourself must set light to the fire.  I ask you, therefore,
to ascend to the top of the chimney and throw in the first embers; may I ask this of your good-nature?"

"Why, certainly!"  replied Reine, "come, Monsieur de Buxieres, you must see how we light a
charcoal furnace."

All the guests jumped from their seats; one of the men took the ladder and leaned it against
the sloping side of the furnace.  Meanwhile, Pere Theotime was bringing an earthen vase full
of burning embers.  Reine skipped lightly up the steps, and when she reached the top, stood
erect near the orifice of the furnace.

Her graceful outline came out in strong relief against the clear sky; one by one, she took
the embers handed her by the charcoal-dealer, and threw them into the opening in the middle
of the furnace.  Soon there was a crackling inside, followed by a dull rumbling; the chips
and rubbish collected at the bottom had caught fire, and the air-holes left at the base of
the structure facilitated the passage of the current, and hastened the kindling of the wood.

"Bravo; we've got it!"  exclaimed Pere Theotime.

"Bravo!"  repeated the young people, as much exhilarated with the open air as with the two
or three glasses of white wine they had drunk.  Lads and lasses joined hands and leaped impetuously
around the furnace.

"A song, Reine!  Sing us a song!"  cried the young girls.

She stood at the foot of the ladder, and, without further solicitation, intoned, in her clear
and sympathetic voice, a popular song, with a rhythmical refrain:

                    My father bid me
                    Go sell my wheat.
                    To the market we drove
                    "Good-morrow, my sweet!
                    How much, can you say,
                    Will its value prove?"

                    The embroidered rose
                    Lies on my glove.

                    "A hundred francs
                    Will its value prove."
                    "When you sell your wheat,
                    Do you sell your love?"

                    The embroidered rose
                    Lies on my glove!

                    "My heart, Monsieur,
                    Will never rove,
                    I have promised it
                    To my own true love."

                    The embroidered rose
                    Lies on my glove.

                    "For me he braves
                    The wind and the rain;
                    For me he weaves
                    A silver chain."

                    On my 'broidered glove.
                    Lies the rose again.

Repeating the refrain in chorus, boys and girls danced and leaped in the sunlight.  Julien
leaned against the trunk of a tree, listening to the sonorous voice of Reine, and could not
take his eyes off the singer. When she had ended her song, Reine turned in another direction;
but the dancers had got into the spirit of it and could not stand still; one of the men came
forward, and started another popular air, which all the rest repeated in unison:

