  It scarcely touched upon the real point, but lost itself in respects, in reservations,
in deference, and would propose nothing that was not according to the taste of the King!  In
a word, the letter withdrew rather than advanced, and was a sort of ease-conscience which could
not be refused, and which did not promise much success.

It is easy to understand that these letters much displeased me.  Although I had anticipated
all the malice of Cardinal Dubois, I found it exceeded my calculations, and that it was more
undisguised than I imagined it would be.

Such as the letters were I was obliged to make use of them.  The Abbe de Saint-Simon wrote
to Grimaldo and to Sartine, enclosing these letter, for I myself did not yet dare to write
on account of the precautions I was obliged to use against the bad air.  Sartine and Grimaldo,
to whom I had not confided my suspicions that these recommendations would be in a very weak
tone, were thrown into the utmost surprise on reading them.

They argued together, they were indignant, they searched for a bias to strengthen that which
had so much need of strength, but this bias could not be found; they consulted together, and
Grimaldo formed a bold resolution, which astonished me to the last degree, and much troubled
me also.

He came to the conclusion that these letters would assuredly do me more harm than good; that
they must be suppressed, never spoken of to the King, who must be confirmed without them in
the belief that in according me these favours he would confer upon M. le Duc d'Orleans a pleasure,
all the greater, because he saw to what point extended all his reserve in not speaking to him
about this matter, and mine in not asking for these favours through his Royal Highness, as
there was every reason to believe I should do.  Grimaldo proposed to draw from these circumstances
all the benefit he proposed to have drawn from the letters had they been written in a fitting
spirit, and he said he would answer for it; I should have the 'grandesse' and the 'Toison d'Or'
without making the slightest allusion to the cold recommendations of M. le Duc d'Orleans to
the King of Spain, and of Dubois to him.

Sartine, by his order, made this known to the Abbe de Saint-Simon, who communicated it to me,
and after having discussed together with Hyghens, who knew the ground as well as they, and
who had really devoted himself to me, I blindly abandoned myself to the guidance and friendship
of Grimaldo, with full success, as will be seen.

In relating here the very singular fashion by which my affair succeeded, I am far indeed from
abstracting from M. le Duc d'Orleans all gratitude. If he had not confided to me the double
marriage, without the knowledge of Dubois, and in spite of the secrecy that had been asked
for, precisely on my account, I should not have been led to beg of him the embassy.

I instantly asked for it, declaring that my sole aim was the grandesse for my second son, and
he certainly accorded it to me with this aim, and promised to aid me with his recommendation
in order to arrive at it, but with the utmost secrecy on account of the vexation Dubois would
feel, and in order to give himself time to arrange with the minister and induce him to swallow
the pill.

If I had not had the embassy in this manner, it would certainly have escaped me; and thus would
have been lost all hope of the grandesse, to obtain which there would have been no longer occasion,
reason, or means.

The friendship and the confidence of this prince prevailed then over the witchery which his
miserable preceptor had cast upon him, and if he afterwards yielded to the roguery, to the
schemes, to the folly which Dubois employed in the course of this embassy to ruin and disgrace
me, and to bring about the failure of the sole object which had made me desire it, we must
only blame his villainy and the deplorable feebleness of M. le Duc d'Orleans, which caused
me many sad embarrassments, and did so much harm, but which even did more harm to the state
and to the prince himself.

It is with this sad but only too true reflection that I finish the year 1721.

CHAPTER CXII

The Regent's daughter arrived in Spain at the commencement of the year 1722, and it was arranged
that her marriage with the Prince of the Asturias should be celebrated on the 30th of January
at Lerma, where their Catholic Majesties were then staying.  It was some little distance from
my house.  I was obliged therefore to start early in the morning in order to arrive in time.
On the way I paid a visit of ceremony to the Princess, at Cogollos, ate a mouthful of something,
and turned off to Lerma.

As soon as I arrived there, I went to the Marquis of Grimaldo's apartments.  His chamber was
at the end of a vast room, a piece of which had been portioned off, in order to serve as a
chapel.  Once again I had to meet the nuncio, and I feared lest he should remember what had
passed on a former occasion, and that I should give Dubois a handle for complaint.  I saw,
therefore, but very imperfectly, the reception of the Princess; to meet whom the King and Queen
(who lodged below) and the Prince precipitated themselves, so to speak, almost to the steps
of the coach.  I quietly went up again to the chapel.

The prie-dieu of the King was placed in front of the altar, a short distance from the steps,
precisely as the King's prie-dieu is placed at Versailles, but closer to the altar, and with
a cushion on each side of it.  The chapel was void of courtiers.  I placed myself to the right
of the King's cushion just beyond the edge of the carpet, and amused myself there better than
I had expected.  Cardinal Borgia, pontifically clad, was in the corner, his face turned towards
me, learning his lesson between two chaplains in surplices, who held a large book open in front
of him.  The good prelate did not know how to read; he tried, however, and read aloud, but
inaccurately.  The chaplains took him up, he grew angry, scolded them, recommenced, was again
corrected, again grew angry, and to such an extent that he turned round upon them and shook
them by their surplices.  I laughed as much as I could; for he perceived nothing, so occupied
and entangled was he with his lesson.

Marriages in Spain are performed in the afternoon, and commence at the door of the church,
like baptisms.  The King, the Queen, the Prince, and the Princess arrived with all the Court,
and the King was announced. "Let them wait," said the Cardinal in choler, "I am not ready."
They waited, in fact, and the Cardinal continued his lesson, redder than his hat, and still
furious.  At last he went to the door, at which a ceremony took place that lasted some time.
Had I not been obliged to continue at my post, curiosity would have made me follow him.  That
I lost some amusement is certain, for I saw the King and Queen laughing and looking at their
prie-dieu, and all the Court laughing also.  The nuncio arriving and seeing by the position
I had taken up that I was preceding him, again indicated his surprise to me by gestures, repeating,
"Signor, signor;" but I had resolved to understand nothing, and laughingly pointed out the
Cardinal to him, and reproached him for not having better instructed the worthy prelate for
the honour of the Sacred College.  The nuncio understood French very well, but spoke it very
badly.  This banter and the innocent air with which I gave it, without appearing to notice
his demonstrations, created such a fortunate diversion, that nobody else was thought of; more
especially as the poor cardinal more and more caused amusement while continuing the ceremony,
during which he neither knew where he was nor what he was doing, being taken up and corrected
every moment by his chaplains, and fuming against them so that neither the King nor the Queen
could; contain themselves.  It was the same with everybody else who witnessed the scene.

I could see nothing more than the back of the Prince and the Princess as they knelt each upon
a cushion between the prie-dieu and the altar, the Cardinal in front making grimaces indicative
of the utmost confusion. Happily all I had to think of was the nuncio, the King's majordomo-major
having placed himself by the side of his son, captain of the guards.  The grandees were crowded
around with the most considerable people: the rest filled all the chapel so that there was
no stirring.

Amidst the amusement supplied to us by the poor Cardinal, I remarked extreme satisfaction in
the King and Queen at seeing this grand marriage accomplished.  The ceremony finished, as it
was not long, only the King, the Queen, and, when necessary, the Prince and Princess kneeling,
their Catholic Majesties rose and withdrew towards the left corner of their footcloth, talked
together for a short time, after which the Queen remained where she was, and the King advanced
to me, I being where I had been during all the ceremony.

The King did me the honour to say to me, "Monsieur, in every respect I am so pleased with you,
and particularly for the manner in which you have acquitted yourself of your embassy, that
I wish to give you some marks of my esteem, of my satisfaction; of my friendship.  I make you
Grandee of Spain of the first class; you, and, at the same time, whichever of your sons you
may wish to have the same distinction; and your eldest son I will make chevalier of the Toison
d'Or."

I immediately embraced his knees, and I tried to testify to him my gratitude and my extreme
desire to render myself worthy of the favour he deigned to spread upon me, by my attachment,
my very humble services, and my most profound respect.  Then I kissed his hand, turned and
sent for my, children, employing the moments which had elapsed before they came in uttering
fresh thanks.  As soon as my sons appeared, I called the younger and told him, to embrace the
knees of the King who overwhelmed us with favours, and made him grandee of Spain with me. 
He kissed the King's hand in rising, the King saying he was very glad of what he had just done.
I presented the elder to him afterwards, to thank him for the Toison.  He simply bent very
low and kissed the King's hand.  As soon as this was at an end, the King went towards the Queen,
and I followed him with my children.  I bent very low before the Queen, thanked her, then presented
to her my children, the younger first, the elder afterwards. The Queen received us with much
goodness, said a thousand civil things, then walked away with the King, followed by the Prince,
having upon his arm the Princess, whom we saluted in passing; and they returned to their apartments.
I wished to follow them, but was carried away, as it were, by the crowd which pressed eagerly
around me to compliment me.  I was very careful to reply in a fitting manner to each, and with
the utmost politeness, and though I but little expected these favours at this moment, I found
afterwards that all this numerous court was pleased with me.

A short time after the celebration of the marriage between the Regent's daughter and the Prince
of the Asturias, the day came on which my eldest son was to receive the Toison d'Or.  The Duc
de Liria was to be his, godfather, and it was he who conducted us to the place of ceremony.
His carriage was drawn by four perfectly beautiful Neapolitan horses; but these animals, which
are often extremely fantastical, would not stir. The whip was vigorously applied; results--rearing,
snorting, fury, the carriage in danger of being upset.  Time was flying; I begged the Duc de
Liria, therefore, to get into my carriage, so that we might not keep the King and the company
waiting for us.  It was in vain I represented to him that this function of godfather would
in no way be affected by changing his own coach for mine, since it would be by necessity. 
He would not listen to me.  The horses continued their game for a good half hour before they
consented to start.

All my cortege followed us, for I wished by this display to show the King of Spain how highly
I appreciated the honours of his Court.  On the way the horses again commenced their pranks.
I again pressed the Duc de Liria to change his coach, and he again refused.  Fortunately the
pause this time was much shorter than at first; but before we reached the end of our journey
there came a message to say that the King was waiting for us.  At last we arrived, and as soon
as the King was informed of it he entered the room where the chapter of the order was assembled.
He straightway sat himself down in an armchair, and while the rest of the company were placing
themselves in position; the Queen, the Princess of the Asturias, and their suite, seated themselves
as simple spectators at the end of the room.

All the chapter having arranged themselves in order, the door in front of the King, by which
we had entered, was closed, my son remaining outside with a number of the courtiers.  Then
the King covered himself, and all the chevaliers at the same time, in the midst of a silence,
without sign, which lasted as long as a little prayer.  After this, the King very briefly proposed
that the Vidame de Chartres should be received into the order.  All the chevaliers uncovered
themselves, made an inclination, without rising, and covered themselves again.  After another
silence, the King called the Duc de Liria, who uncovered himself, and with a reverence approached
the King; by whom he was thus addressed: "Go and see if the Vidame de Chartres is not somewhere
about here."

The Duc de Liria made another reverence to the King, but none to the chevaliers (who, nevertheless,
were uncovered at the same time as he), went away, the door was closed upon him, and the chevaliers
covered themselves again.  The reverences just made, and those I shall have occasion to speak
of in the course of my description, were the same as are seen at the receptions of the chevaliers
of the Saint-Esprit, and in all grand ceremonies.

The Duc de Liria remained outside nearly a quarter of an hour, because it is assumed that the
new chevalier is ignorant of the proposition made for him, and that it is only by chance he
is found in the palace, time being needed in order to look for him.  The Duc de Liria returned,
and immediately after the door was again closed, and he advanced to the King, as before, saying
that the Vidame de Chartres was in the other room.

Upon this the King ordered him to go and ask the Vidame if he wished to accept the Order of
the Toison d'Or, and be received into it, and undertake to observe its statutes, its duties,
its ceremonies, take its oaths, promise to fulfil all the conditions submitted: to every one
who is admitted into it, and agree to conduct himself in everything like a good, loyal, brave,
and virtuous chevalier.  The Duc de Liria withdrew as he had before withdrawn.  The door was
again closed.  He returned after having been absent a shorter time than at first.  The door
was again closed, and he approached the King as before, and announced to him the consent and
the thanks of the Vidame.  "Very well," replied the King. "Go seek him, and bring him here."

The Duc de Liria withdrew, as on the previous occasions, and immediately returned, having my
son on his left.  The door being open, anybody was at liberty to enter, and see the ceremony.

The Duc de Liria conducted my son to the feet of the King, and then seated himself in his place.
My son, in advancing, had lightly inclined himself to the chevaliers, right and left; and,
after having made in the middle of the room a profound bow, knelt before the King, without
quitting his sword, and having his hat under his arm, and no gloves on. The chevaliers, who
had uncovered themselves at the entry of the Duc de Liria, covered themselves when he sat down;
and the Prince of the Asturias acted precisely as they acted.

The King repeated to my son the same things, a little more lengthily, that had been said to
him by the Duc de Liria, and received his promise upon each in succession.  Afterwards, an
attendant, who was standing in waiting behind the table, presented to the King, from between
the table and the chair, a large book, open, and in which was a long oath, that my son repeated
to the King, who had the book upon his knees, the oath in French, and on loose paper; being
in it.  This ceremony lasted rather a long time: Afterwards, my son kissed the King's hand,
and the King made him rise and pass, without reverence; directly before the table, towards
the middle of which he knelt, his back to the Prince of the Asturias, his face to the attendant,
who showed him (the table being between them) what to do.  There was upon this table a great
crucifix of enamel upon a stand, with a missal open at the Canon, the Gospel of Saint-John,
and forms, in French, of promises and oaths to be made, whilst putting the hand now upon the
Canon, now upon the Gospel.  The oath-making took up some time; after which my son came back
and knelt before the King again as before.

Then, the Duc del Orco, grand ecuyer, and Valouse, premier ecuyer, who have had the Toison
since, and who were near me, went away, the Duke first, Valouse behind him, carrying in his
two hands, with marked care and respect, the sword of the Grand Captain, Don Gonzalvo de Cordova,
who is never called otherwise.  They walked, with measured step, outside the right-hand seats
of the chevaliers, then entered the chapter, where the Duc de Liria had entered with my son,
marched inside the left-hand seats of the chevaliers, without reverence, but the Duke inclining
himself; Valouse not doing so on account of the respect due to the sword; the grandees did
not incline themselves.

The Duke on arriving between the Prince of the Asturias and the King, knelt, and Valouse knelt
behind him.  Some moments after, the King made a sign to them; Valouse drew the sword from
its sheath which he put under his arm, held the naked weapon by the middle of the blade, kissed
the hilt, and presented it to the King, who, without uncovering himself, kissed the pommel,
took the sword in both hands by the handle, held it upright some moments; then held it with
one hand, but almost immediately with the other as well, and struck it three times upon each
shoulder of my son, alternately, saying to him, "By Saint-George and Saint-Andrew I make you
Chevalier."  And the weight of the sword was so great that the blows did not fall lightly.
While the King was striking them, the grand ecuyer and the premier remained in their places
kneeling.  The sword was returned as it had been presented, and kissed in the same manner.
Valouse put it back into its sheath, after which the grand ecuyer and the premier ecuyer returned
as they came.

This sword, handle included, was more than four feet long; the blade four good digits wide,
thick in proportion, insensibly diminishing in thickness and width to the point, which was
very small.  The handle appeared to me of worked enamel, long and very large; as well as the
pommel; the crossed piece long, and the two ends wide, even, worked, without branch.  I examined
it well, and I could not hold it in the air with one-hand, still less handle it with both hands
except with much difficulty.  It is pretended that this is the sword the Great Captain made
use of, and with which he obtained so many victories.

I marvelled at the strength of the men in those days, with whom I believe early habits did
much.  I was touched by the grand honour rendered to the Great Captain's memory; his sword
becoming the sword of the State, carried even by the King with great respect.  I repeated,
more than once, that if I were the Duc de Scose (who descends in a direct line from the Great
Captain by the female branch, the male being extinct), I would leave nothing undone to obtain
the Toison, in order to enjoy the honour and the sensible pleasure of being struck by this
sword, and with such great respect for my ancestor.  But to return to the ceremony from which
this little digression has taken me.

The accolade being given by the King after the blows with the sword, fresh oaths being taken
at his feet, then before the table as at first, and on this occasion at greater length, my
son returned and knelt before the King, but without saying anything more.  Then Grimaldo rose
and, without reverence, left the chapter by the left, went behind the right- hand seats of
the chevaliers, and took the collar of the Toison which was extended at the end of the table.
At this moment the King told my son to rise, and so remain standing in the same place.  The
Prince of the Asturias, and the Marquis de Villena then rose also, end approached my son, both
covered, all the other chevaliers remaining seated and covered. Then Grimaldo, passing between
the table and the empty seat of the Prince of the Asturias, presented; standing, the collar
to the King, who took it with both hands, and meanwhile Grimaldo, passing behind the Prince
of the Asturias, went and placed himself behind my son.  As soon as he was there, the King
told my son to bend very low, but without kneeling, and then leaning forward, but without rising,
placed the collar upon him, and made him immediately after stand upright.  The King then took
hold of the collar, simply holding the end of it in his hand.  At the same time, the collar
was attached to the left shoulder by the Prince of the Asturias, to the right shoulder by the
Marquis de Villena, and behind by Grimaldo; the King still holding the end.

When the collar was attached, the Prince of the Asturias, the Marquis de Villena, and Grimaldo,
without making a reverence and no chevalier uncovering himself, went back to their places,
and sat down; at, the same moment my son knelt before the King, and bared, his head.  Then
the Duc de Liria, without reverence, and uncovered (no chevalier uncovering himself), placed
himself before the King at the left, by the side of my, son, and both made their reverences
to the King; turned round to the Prince of the Asturias, did the same to him, he rising and
doing my son the honour to embrace him, and as soon as he was reseated they made a reverence
to him; then, turning to the King, made him one; afterwards they did the same to the Marquis
de Villena, who rose and embraced my son.  Then he reseated himself; upon which they made a
reverence to him, then turning again towards the King, made another to him; and so an from
right to left until every chevalier had been bowed to in a similar manner.  Then my son sat
down, and the Duc de Liria returned to his place.

After this long series of bows, so bewildering for those who play the chief part in it, the
King remained a short time in his armchair, them rose, uncovered himself, and retired into
his apartment as he came.  I had instructed my son to hurry forward and arrive before him at
the door of his inner apartment.  He was in time, and I also, to kiss the hand of the King,
and to express our thanks, which were well received.  The Queen arrived and overwhelmed us
with compliments.  I must observe that the ceremony of the sword and the accolade are not performed
at the reception of those who, having already another order, are supposed to have received
them; like the chevaliers of the Saint-Esprit and of Saint-Michel, and the chevaliers of Saint-Louis.

Their Catholic Majesties being gone, we withdrew to my house, where a very grand dinner was
prepared.  The usage is, before the reception, to visit all the chevaliers of the Toison, and
when the day is fixed, to visit all those invited to dinner on the day of the ceremony; the
godfather, with the other chevalier by whom he is accompanied, also invites them at the palace
before they enter the chapter, and aids the new chevalier to do the honours of the repast.
I had led my son with me to pay these visits.  Nearly all the chevaliers came to dine with
us, and many other nobles.  The Duc d'Albuquerque, whom I met pretty often, and who had excused
himself from attending a dinner I had previously given, on account of his stomach (ruined as
he said in the Indies), said he, would not refuse me twice, on condition that I permitted him
to take nothing but soup, because meat was too solid for him.  He came, and partook of six
sorts of soup, moderately of all; he afterwards lightly soaked his bread in such ragouts as
were near him, eating only the end, and finding everything very good.  He drank nothing but
wine and water. The dinner was gay, in spite of the great number of guests.  The Spaniards
eat as much as, nay more than, we, and with taste, choice, and pleasure: as to drink, they
are very modest.

On the 13th of March, 1722, their Catholic Majesties returned from their excursion to the Retiro.
The hurried journey I had just made to the former place, immediately after the arrival of a
courier, and in spite of most open prohibitions forbidding every one to go there, joined to
the fashion, full of favour and goodness, with which I had been distinguished by their Majesties
ever since my arrival in Spain, caused a most ridiculous rumour to obtain circulation, and
which, to my great surprise, at once gained much belief.

It was reported there that I was going to quit my position of ambassador from France, and be
declared prime minister of Spain!  The people who had been pleased, apparently, with the expense
I had kept up, and to whom not one of my suite had given the slightest cause of complaint,
set to crying after me in the streets; announcing my promotion, displaying joy at it, and talking
of it even in the shops.  A number of persons even assembled round my house to testify to me
their pleasure.  I dispersed them as civilly and as quickly as possible, assuring them the
report was not true, and that I was forthwith about to return to France.

This was nothing more than the truth.  I had finished all my business. It was time to think
about setting out.  As soon, however, as I talked about going, there was nothing which the
King and the Queen did not do to detain me.  All the Court, too, did me the favour to express
much friendship for me, and regret at my departure.  I admit even that I could not easily make
up my mind to quit a country where I had found nothing but fruits and flowers, and to which
I was attached, as I shall ever be, by esteem and gratitude.  I made at once a number of farewell
visits among the friends I had been once acquainted with; and on the 21st of March I had my
parting state audiences of the King and Queen separately. I was surprised with the dignity,
the precision, and the measure of the King's expressions, as I had been surprised at my first
audience.  I received many marks of personal goodness, and of regret at my departure from his
Catholic Majesty, and from the Queen even more; from the Prince of the Asturias a good many
also.  But in another direction I met with very different treatment, which I cannot refrain
from describing, however ridiculous it may appear.

