When clover seed is sown with the grain drill, it is sometimes sown separately from grain;
that is, without a nurse crop, and is deposited in the soil by the same tubes. But it is only
some makes of drills that will do this. Clover seed, and especially alfalfa, may be thus sown
with much advantage on certain of the Western and Southern soils, especially on those that
are light and open in character, and when the seed is to be put in without a nurse crop. Eastern
soils are usually too heavy to admit of depositing the seed thus deeply, but to this there
are some exceptions.

When sown with a nurse crop, the seed is in some instances mixed with the grain before it is
sown. In some instances it is mixed before it is brought to the field. At other times it is
added when the grain has been put in the seed-box of the drill. This method of sowing is adapted
to certain soils of the Western prairies and to very open soils in some other localities, but
under average conditions it buries seeds too deeply. There is the further objection that they
all grow in the line of the grain plants and are more shaded than they would be otherwise.
Nevertheless, under some conditions this method of sowing the plants is usually satisfactory.

One of the most satisfactory methods of sowing clover seeds along with a nurse crop is to sow
the clover with a "seeder attachment;" that is, an attachment for sowing small seeds, which
will deposit the same before or behind the grain tubes as may be desired. The seed is thus
sown at the same time as the grain, and in the process is scattered evenly over the surface
of the ground. These seeder attachments, however, will not sow all kinds of clover and grass
mixtures any more than will hand-sowing machines do the same.

=Depth to Bury the Seed.=--The depth to bury the seed varies with the conditions of soil, climate
and season. Clover seeds, like those of grasses, are buried most deeply in the light soils
of the prairie so light that they sink, so as to make walking over them unusually tiresome
when working on newly plowed land, and in other instances so light as to lift with the wind.
On such soils the seeds may be buried to the depth of 2 to 3 inches. On loam soils, a covering
of 1 inch or less would be ample, and on stiff clays the covering may even be lighter under
normal conditions.

Clover seeds are buried more deeply in dry than in moist climates, and also more deeply in
dry portions of the year than when moisture is sufficient. While it may be proper in some instances
to scatter the seeds on the surface without any covering other than is furnished by rain or
frost, it will be very necessary at other seasons to provide a covering to insure a stand of
the seed.

When clover seed is sown on ground honeycombed with frost, no covering is necessary. When sown
on winter grain in the spring, the ground not being so honeycombed, covering with the harrow
is usually advantageous. When sown on spring crops and early in the season, it may not be necessary
to cover the seed, except by using the roller, even though the seed should fall behind the
grain tubes while the grain crop is being sown, or should be sown subsequently by hand. In
other instances the harrow should be used, and sometimes both the roller and the harrow. Under
conditions such as appertain to New England and the adjacent States to Ontario and the provinces
east and to the land west of the Cascade Mountains, clover and also grass seeds do not require
so much of a covering as when sown on the prairie soils of the central portion of the continent.

=Sowing Alone or in Combinations.=--Whether clover seed should be sown alone or in combination
with the seeds of other grasses will depend upon the object sought in sowing it. When sown
to produce seed, it is usually sown without admixture, but not in every instance; when sown
to produce hay, it is nearly always sown in mixtures, but to this there are some exceptions;
when sown to produce pasture, it is almost invariably sown with something else; and when sown
to enrich the land, it is, in all, or nearly all, instances, sown without admixture.

When sown primarily to produce seed, there are no good reasons why timothy and probably some
other grasses may not be sown with medium red and mammoth clover, when pasture is wanted from
the land in the season or seasons immediately following the production of seed.

The presence of these grasses may not seriously retard the growth of the clover plants until
after they have produced seed, and subsequently they will grow more assertively and produce
pasture as the clover fails. Moreover, should they mature any seed at the same time that the
clover seeds mature, they may usually be separated in the winnowing process, owing to a difference
in the size of the seeds. But timothy should not be sown with alsike clover that is being grown
for seed, since the seeds of these are so nearly alike in size that they cannot be separated.

When hay is wanted, the practice is very common of sowing timothy along with the medium red,
mammoth and alsike varieties of clover. Timothy grows well with each of these; supports them
to some extent when likely to lodge; matures at the same time as the mammoth and alsike clovers;
comes on more assertively as the clovers begin to fail, thus prolonging the period of cropping
or pasturing; and feeds upon the roots of the clovers in their decay.

Next to timothy, redtop is probably the most useful grass to sow with these clovers, and may
in some instances be added to timothy in the mixtures. Some other grasses may also be added
under certain conditions, or substituted for timothy or redtop. In certain instances, it has
also been found profitable to mix certain of the clovers in addition to adding grass seeds
when hay is wanted. The more important of these mixtures will be referred to when treating
of growing the different varieties in subsequent chapters. When growing them, the aim should
be to sow those varieties together which mature about the same time. The advantages from growing
them together for hay include larger yields, a finer quality of hay, and a more palatable fodder.

In the past it has been the almost uniform practice to sow alfalfa alone, but this practice
is becoming modified to some extent, and is likely to become more so in the future, especially
when grown for pasture.

When sown to produce pasture, unless for one or two seasons, clover seed is sown in various
mixtures of grasses in all or nearly all instances. The grasses add to the permanency of the
pastures, while the clovers usually furnish abundant grazing more quickly than the grasses.
Several of them, however, are more short-lived than grasses usually are, hence the latter are
relied upon to furnish grazing after the clovers have begun to fail. In laying down permanent
pastures, the seed of several varieties is usually sown, but in moderate quantities. The larger
the number of the varieties sown that are adapted to the conditions, the more varied, the more
prolonged and the more ample is the grazing likely to be.

When clovers, except the crimson variety, are sown for the exclusive purpose of adding to the
fertility of the land, they are usually sown along with some other crop that is to be harvested,
the clover being plowed under the following autumn or the next spring. These are usually sown
without being mixed with other varieties, and the two kinds most frequently sown primarily
to enrich the land are the medium red and crimson varieties. The former grows more quickly
than other varieties, and the latter, usually sown alone, comes after some crop already harvested,
and is buried in time to sow some other crop on the same land the following spring.

=Sowing with or without a Nurse Crop.=--Nearly all varieties of clover are usually sown with
a nurse crop; that is, a crop which provides shade for the plants when they are young and delicate.
But the object in sowing with a nurse crop is not so much to secure protection to the young
plants as to get them established in the soil, so that they will produce a full crop the following
season. Two varieties, however, are more commonly sown alone. These are alfalfa and crimson clover.

Alfalfa is more commonly sown alone because the young plants are somewhat delicate and easily
crowded out by other plants amid which they are growing. Because of the several years during
which alfalfa will produce crops when once established, it is deemed proper to sacrifice a
nurse crop in order to get a good stand of the young plants. The other clovers are usually
able to make a sufficient stand, though grown along with a nurse crop. In some situations alfalfa
will also do similarly, as, for instance, where the conditions are very favorable to its growth.
Crimson clover is more commonly sown alone for the reason, first, that it is frequently sown
at a season when other crops are not being sown; second, that it grows better without a nurse
crop; and third, that if grown with a nurse crop the latter would have to be used in the same
way as the clover.

Some have advocated sowing clovers without a nurse crop under any conditions. Such advocacy
in the judgment of the author is not wise. It is true that in some instances a stand of the
various clovers is more certainly assured when they are sown without a nurse crop, but in such
situations it is at least questionable if it would not be better to sow some other crop as
a substitute for clover. But there may be instances, as where clover will make a good crop
of hay the year that it is sown, when sowing it thus would be justifiable. In a majority of
instances, however, it will not make such a crop, because of the presence of weeds, which,
in the first place, would hinder growth, and in the second, would injure the quality of the hay.

The nurse crops with which clovers may be sown are the small cereal grains, as rye, barley,
wheat and oats. Sometimes they are sown with flax, rape and millet. They usually succeed best
when sown along with rye and barley, since these shade them less and are cut earlier, thus
making less draft on moisture in the soil and admitting sunlight at an earlier period. Oats
make the least advantageous nurse crop, because of the denseness of the shade, but if they
are sown thinly and cut for hay soon after they come into head, they are then a very suitable
nurse crop. One chief objection to flax as a nurse crop is that it is commonly sown late. The
chief virtue in rape as a nurse crop is that the shade is removed early through pasturing.
The millets are objectionable as nurse crops through the denseness of the shade which they
furnish and also because of the heavy draught which they make on soil moisture. Peas and vetches
should not be used as nurse crops, since they smother the young clover plants through lodging
in the advanced stages of their growth.

=Amounts of Seed to Sow.=--The amounts of clover seed to sow are influenced by the object sought
in sowing; by combinations with which the seeds are sown, and by the relative size of the seeds.
The soil and climate should also be considered, although these influences are probably less
important than those first named.

When clovers are sown for pasture only, or to fertilize the soil speedily and to supply it
with humus, the largest amounts of seed are sown. But for these purposes it is seldom necessary
to use more than 12 pounds of seed per acre. These amounts refer to the medium red and mammoth
varieties, which are more frequently used than the other varieties for the purposes named.
They also include the crimson sown usually to fertilize the soil. When sown to provide seed
only, 12 pounds per acre of the medium red, mammoth and crimson varieties will usually suffice.
Half the quantity of alsike will be enough, and one-third the quantity of the small white,
or a little more than that. Whether alfalfa is grown for seed, for hay or for pasture, about
the same amounts of seed are used; that is, 15 to 20 pounds per acre. When sown with nurse
crops and simply to improve the soil, it is customary to sow small rather than large quantities
of seed, and for the reason that the hazard of failure to secure a stand every season is too
considerable to justify the outlay. From 4 to 5 pounds per acre are frequently sown and of
the medium or mammoth variety.

When the mammoth and medium varieties of clover are sown for hay with one or two kinds of grass
only, it is not common to sow more than 6 to 8 pounds of either per acre. The maximum amount
of the seed of the alsike required when thus sown with grasses may be set down at 5 pounds
per acre. These three varieties are chiefly used for such mixtures. With more varieties of
grass in the mixtures, the quantities of clover seed used will decrease. When clovers are sown
with mixtures intended for permanent pastures, it would not be possible to name the amounts
of seed to sow without knowing the grasses used also, but it may be said that, as a rule, in
those mixtures, the clovers combined seldom form more than one-third of the seed used.

The seeds of some varieties of clover are less than one-third of the size of other varieties.
This, therefore, affects proportionately, or at least approximately so, the amounts of seed
required. For instance, while it might be proper to sow 12 pounds of medium or mammoth clover
to accomplish a certain result, less than one-third of the quantity of the small white variety
would suffice for the same end.

The influences of climate and soil on the quantities of seed required are various, so various
that to consider them fully here would unduly prolong the discussion. But it may be said that
the harder the conditions in both respects, the more the quantity of seed required and vice versa.

=Pasturing.=--When clover seed is sown in nurse crops that are matured before being harvested,
the pasturing of the stand secured the autumn following is usually to be avoided. Removing
the covering which the plants have provided for themselves is against their passing through
the winter in the best form. In some instances the injury proves so serious as to result in
a loss of all, or nearly all, the plants. The colder the winters, the less the normal snowfall
and the more the deficiency of moisture, the greater is the hazard. But in some instances so
great is the growth of the clover plants that not to graze them down in part at least would
incur the danger of smothering many of the plants, especially in regions where the snowfall
is at all considerable.

But when the seed is sown alone or in mixtures of grain and even of other grasses in the spring,
grazing the same season will have the effect of strengthening the plants. This result is due
chiefly to the removal of the shade that weeds and other plants would furnish were they not
thus eaten down, but it is also due in part to the larger share of soil moisture that is thus
left for the clover plants. Pasturing clover sown thus should be avoided when the ground is
so wet as to poach or become impact in consequence. Unless on light, spongy soils which readily
lose their moisture, such grazing should not begin until the plants have made considerable
growth, nor should it be too close, or root development in the pastures will be hindered.

It would not be possible to fix the stage of growth when the grazing should begin on clover
fields kept for pasture subsequent to the season of sowing. The largest amount of food would
be furnished if grazing were deferred until the blossoming stage were reached and the crop
were then grazed down quickly. But this is not usually practicable, hence the grazing usually
begins at a period considerably earlier. In general, however, the plants should not be grazed
down very closely, or growth will be more or less hindered.

Grazing clover in the spring and somewhat closely for several weeks after growth begins, has
been thought conducive to abundant seed production. This result is due probably to the greater
increase in the seed heads that follow such grazing. This would seem to explain why clover
that has been judiciously grazed produces even more seed than that clipped off by the mower
after it has begun to grow freely.

In nearly all localities the grazing of medium red clover, and even of mammoth clover, somewhat
closely in the autumn of the second year, is to be practised rather than avoided. These two
varieties being essentially biennial in their habit of growth will not usually survive the
second winter, even though not grazed, hence not to graze them would result in a loss of the
pasture.

With nearly all kinds of clover there is some danger from bloat in grazing them with cattle
or sheep while yet quite succulent, and the danger is intensified when the animals are turned
in to graze with empty stomachs or when the clover is wet with dew or rain. When such bloating
occurs, for the method of procedure see page 95. The danger that bloat will be produced is
lessened in proportion as other grasses abound in the pastures.

=Harvesting.=--All the varieties of clover, except alfalfa, are best cut for hay when in full
bloom. Here and there a head may have turned brown. If cut earlier, the crop is difficult to
cure, nor will it contain a maximum of nutriment. If cut later it loses much in palatability.
Alfalfa should be cut a little earlier, or just when it is nicely coming into bloom, as if
cut later the shedding of the leaves in the curing is likely to be large.

All clovers are much injured by exposure to rain or dew. They will also lose much if cured
in the swath, without being frequently stirred with the tedder; that is, it will take serious
injury if cured in the swath as it fell from the mower. If cured thus, it will lose in aroma
and palatability, through the breaking of leaves and, consequently, in feeding value. To avoid
these losses, clover is more frequently cured in the cock. When cured thus, it preserves the
bright green color, the aroma and the tint of the blossoms, it is less liable to heat in the
mow or stack and is greatly relished by live stock when fed to them.

To cure it thus, it is usually tedded once or twice after it has lost some of its moisture.
It is then raked as soon as it is dried enough to rake easily, and put up into cocks. When
the quantity to be cured is not large caps are sometimes used to cover the cocks to shed the
rain when the weather is showery. These are simply square strips of some kind of material that
will shed rain, weighted at the corners to keep them from blowing away. The clover remains
in the cocks for two or three days, or until it has gone through the "sweating" process. Exposure
to two or three showers of rain falling at intervals while partially cured in the swath or
winrow will greatly injure clover hay.

When the area to be harvested is large, clover is sometimes cured in the swath. When thus cured
it is stirred with the tedder often enough to aid in curing the hay quickly. It is then raked
into winrows and drawn from these to the place of storage. In good weather clover may be cured
thus so as to make fairly good hay, but not so good as is made by the other method of curing.
It is much more expeditiously made, but there is some loss in leaves, in color and in palatability.

Some farmers cure clover by allowing it to wilt a little after it is cut, and then drawing
and storing it in a large mow. They claim that it must be entirely free from rain or dew when
thus stored. This plan of curing clover has been successfully practised by some farmers for
many years; others who have tried it have failed, which makes it evident that when stored thus,
close attention must be given to all the details essential to success.

Clover may also be cured in the silo. While some have succeeded in making good ensilage, in
many cases it has not proved satisfactory. The time may come when the conditions to be observed
in making good silage from clover will be such that the element of hazard in making the same
will be removed. In the meantime, it will usually be more satisfactory to cure clover in the
ordinary way.

Grasses cure more easily and more quickly than clovers. Consequently, when these are grown
together so that the grasses form a considerable proportion of the hay, the methods followed
in curing the grasses will answer also for the clovers. For these methods the reader is referred
to the book "Grasses and How to Grow Them" by the author. The influence that grasses thus exert
on the growing of clovers furnishes a weighty reason for growing them together.

=Storing.=--Clovers are ready to store when enough moisture has left the stems to prevent excessive
fermentation when put into the place of storage. Hay that has been cured in the cock is much
less liable to heat when stored so as to produce mould, than hay cured in the swath or winrow.
The former has already gone through the heating process or, at least, partially so. Some experience
is necessary to enable one to be quite sure as to the measure of the fitness of hay for being
stored. When it can be pitched without excessive labor it is ready for being stored, but the
unskilled will not likely be able to judge of this accurately. If a wisp is taken some distance
from the top of the winrow or cock and twisted between the hands, if moisture exudes it is
too damp, and if the hay breaks asunder readily it is too dry. When no moisture is perceptible
and yet the wisp does not break asunder, the hay is ready to be drawn. Care must be taken that
the wisp chosen be representative of the mass of the hay. To make sure of this, the test should
be applied several times.

Where practicable the aim should be to store clover hay under cover, owing to the little power
which it has to shed rain in the stack. This is only necessary, however, in climates with considerable
rainfall during the year and where irrigation is practised, as in the mountain States clover
hay may be kept in the stack without any loss from rain, and it can be cured exactly as the
ranchman may desire, since he is never embarrassed when making hay by bad weather. When storing
clovers, the time of the day at which it is stored influences the keeping qualities of the
hay. Hay stored at noontide may keep properly, whereas, if the same were stored while dew is
falling it might be too damp for being thus stored.

Much care should be taken in stacking clover hay that it may shed rain properly. The following
should be observed among other rules of less importance that may be given: 1. Make a foundation
of rails, poles or old straw or hay that will prevent the hay near the ground from taking injury
from the ground moisture. 2. Keep the heart of the stack highest from the first and the slope
gradual and even from the center toward the sides. 3. Keep the stack evenly trodden, or it
will settle unevenly, and the stack will lean to one side accordingly. 4. Increase the diameter
from the ground upward until ready to draw in or narrow to form the top. 5. Aim to form the
top by gradual rather than abrupt narrowing. 6. Top out by using some other kind of hay or
grass that sheds the rain better than clover. 7. Suspend weights to some kind of ropes, stretching
over the top of the stack to prevent the wind from removing the material put on to protect
the clover from rain.

=Feeding.=--The clovers furnish a ration more nearly in balance than almost any other kind
of food. If the animals to which they are fed could consume enough of them to produce the desired
end, concentrated foods would not be wanted. They are so bulky, however, relatively, that to
horses and mules at work, to dairy cows in milk and cattle that are being fattened, to sheep
under similar conditions, and to swine, it is necessary to add the concentrated grain foods,
more or less, according to the precise object. But for horses, mules, cattle, sheep and goats
that are growing subsequent to the weaning stage, and for mature animals of these respective
classes not producing, that is, not yielding returns, a good quality of clover hay will suffice
for a considerable time at least without the necessity of adding any other food.

It is considered inferior to timothy as a fodder for horses. This preference is doubtless owing
largely to the fact, first, that clover breaks up more and loses more leaves when being handled,
especially when being transported; and second, that clover is frequently cured so imperfectly
as to create dust from over-fermentation or through breaking of the leaves, because of being
over-dried, and the dust thus created is prejudicial to the health of these animals. It tends
to produce "heaves." This may in part be obviated by sprinkling the hay before it is fed. When
clover is properly cured, it is a more nutritious hay than timothy, and is so far preferable
for horses, but since timothy transports in much better form, it is always likely to be more
popular in the general market than clover. The possibility of feeding clover to horses for
successive years without any evils resulting is made very apparent from feeding alfalfa thus
in certain areas of the West.

Clover hay is specially useful as a fodder for milk-producing animals, owing to the high protein
content which it contains. Dairymen prefer it to nearly all kinds of fodders grown, and the
same is true of shepherds. When very coarse, however, a considerable proportion of the stems
is likely to be left uneaten, especially by sheep. Because of this it should be the aim to
grow it so that this coarseness of stem will not be present. This is accomplished, first, by
growing it thickly, and second, by growing the clovers in combination with one another and
also with certain of the grasses.

Clovers are especially helpful in balancing the ration where corn is the principal food crop
grown. The protein of the clover crop aids greatly in balancing the excess of carbo-hydrates
in the corn crop, hence much attention should be given to the production of clovers in such areas.

=Renewing.=--Because of the comparatively short life of several of the most useful of the varieties
of clover, no attempt is usually made to renew them when they fail, unless when growing in
pasture somewhat permanent in character. To this, however, there may be some exceptions. On
certain porous soils it has been found possible to maintain medium red clover and also the
mammoth and alsike varieties for several years by simply allowing some of the seed to ripen
in the autumn, and in this way to re-seed the land, a result made possible through moderate
grazing of the meadow in the autumn, and in some instances through the absence of grazing altogether,
as when the conditions may not be specially favorable to the growth of clover.

It is not uncommon, however, to renew alfalfa, by adding more seed when it is disked in the
spring, as it sometimes is to aid in removing weeds from the land. The results vary much with
the favorableness of the conditions for growing alfalfa or the opposite.

In pastures more or less permanent in character, clovers may be renewed by disking the ground,
adding more clover seed, and then smoothing the surface by running over it the harrow, and
in some instances also the roller. This work is best done when the frost has just left the
ground for a short distance below the surface.

Some kinds of clover are so persistent in their habit of growth that when once in the soil
they remain, and therefore do not usually require renewal. These include the small white, the
yellow, the Japan, burr clover and sweet clover. In soils congenial to these respective varieties,
the seeds usually remain in the soil in sufficient quantities to restock the land with plants
when it is again laid down to grass. Nearly all of these varieties are persistent seed producers;
hence, even though grazed, enough seed is formed to produce another crop of plants.

=Clovers as Soil Improvers.=--All things considered, no class of plants grown upon the farm
are so beneficent in the influence which they exert upon the land as clovers. They improve
it by enriching it; they improve it mechanically; and they aid plant growth by gathering and
assimilating, as it were, food for other plants.

All clovers have the power of drawing nitrogen from the air and depositing the same in the
tubercles formed on the roots of the plants. These tubercles are small, warty-like substances,
which appear during the growing season. They are more commonly formed on the roots within the
cultivable area, and therefore are easily accessible to the roots of the plants which immediately
follow. Clovers are not equally capable of thus drawing nitrogen from the air, nor are the
same varieties equally capable of doing this under varying conditions. The relative capabilities
of varieties to thus deposit nitrogen in the soil is by no means equal, but up to the present
time it would seem correct to say that relative capability in all of these has not yet been
definitely ascertained. With reference to the whole question much has yet to be learned, but
it is now certain that in all, or nearly all, instances in which clovers are grown on land,
they leave it much richer in nitrogen than it was when they were sown upon the same.

They also add to the fertility of the surface soil by gathering plant food in the subsoil below
where many plants feed. They have much power to do this, because they are deep rooted and they
are strong feeders; that is, they have much power to take up food in the soil or subsoil. Part
of the food thus gathered in the subsoil helps to form roots in the cultivable area and part
aids in forming top growth for pasture or for hay. If grazed down or if made into hay and fed
so that the manure goes back upon the land the fertility of the same is increased in all leading
essentials. This increase is partly made at the expense of the fertility in the subsoil. But
the stores of fertility in the subsoil are such usually as to admit of thus being drawn upon
indefinitely.

Clovers improve soils mechanically by rendering them more friable, by giving them increased
power to hold moisture, and by improving drainage in the subsoil. Of course, they have not
the power to do this equally, but they all have this power in degree and in all the ways that
have been named.

