"You see, nephew, her comprehension is almost equal to your own of that fine passage."

"I hope you think, sir, that I knew it to be Latin as well as she did?"

"Why, as to that—But stay, she is about to speak."

"I will have no priest—none," said the beldam, with impotent vehemence; "as I have lived I
will die—none shall say that I betrayed my mistress, though it were to save my soul!"

"That bespoke a foul conscience," said the mendicant;—"I wuss she wad mak a clean breast, an
it were but for her sake;" and he again assailed her.

"Weel, gudewife, I did your errand to the Yerl."

"To what Earl? I ken nae Earl;—I ken'd a Countess ance—I wish to Heaven I had never ken'd her!
for by that acquaintance, neighbour, their cam,"— and she counted her withered fingers as she
spoke "first Pride, then Malice, then Revenge, then False Witness; and Murder tirl'd at the
door-pin, if he camna ben. And werena thae pleasant guests, think ye, to take up their quarters
in ae woman's heart? I trow there was routh o' company."

"But, cummer," continued the beggar, "it wasna the Countess of Glenallan I meant, but her son,
him that was Lord Geraldin."

"I mind it now," she said; "I saw him no that langsyne, and we had a heavy speech thegither.
Eh, sirs! the comely young lord is turned as auld and frail as I am: it's muckle that sorrow
and heartbreak, and crossing of true love, will do wi' young blood. But suldna his mither hae
lookit to that hersell?—we were but to do her bidding, ye ken. I am sure there's naebody can
blame me—he wasna my son, and she was my mistress. Ye ken how the rhyme says—I hae maist forgotten
how to sing, or else the tune's left my auld head—

                  "He turn'd him right and round again,
                       Said, Scorn na at my mither;
                   Light loves I may get mony a ane,
                       But minnie neer anither.

Then he was but of the half blude, ye ken, and her's was the right Glenallan after a'. Na,
na, I maun never maen doing and suffering for the Countess Joscelin—never will I maen for that."

Then drawing her flax from the distaff, with the dogged air of one who is resolved to confess
nothing, she resumed her interrupted occupation.

"I hae heard," said the mendicant, taking his cue from what Oldbuck had told him of the family
history—"I hae heard, cummer, that some ill tongue suld hae come between the Earl, that's Lord
Geraldin, and his young bride."

"Ill tongue?" she said in hasty alarm; "and what had she to fear frae an ill tongue?—she was
gude and fair eneugh—at least a' body said sae. But had she keepit her ain tongue aff ither
folk, she might hae been living like a leddy for a' that's come and gane yet."

"But I hae heard say, gudewife," continued Ochiltree, "there was a clatter in the country,
that her husband and her were ower sibb when they married."

"Wha durst speak o' that?" said the old woman hastily; "wha durst say they were married?—wha
ken'd o' that?—Not the Countess—not I. If they wedded in secret, they were severed in secret—They
drank of the fountains of their ain deceit."

"No, wretched beldam!" exclaimed Oldbuck, who could keep silence no longer, "they drank the
poison that you and your wicked mistress prepared for them."

"Ha, ha!" she replied, "I aye thought it would come to this. It's but sitting silent when they
examine me—there's nae torture in our days; and if there is, let them rend me!—It's ill o'
the vassal's mouth that betrays the bread it eats."

"Speak to her, Edie," said the Antiquary; "she knows your voice, and answers to it most readily."

"We shall mak naething mair out o' her," said Ochiltree. "When she has clinkit hersell down
that way, and faulded her arms, she winna speak a word, they say, for weeks thegither. And
besides, to my thinking, her face is sair changed since we cam in. However, I'se try her ance
mair to satisfy your honour.—So ye canna keep in mind, cummer, that your auld mistress, the
Countess Joscelin, has been removed?"

"Removed!" she exclaimed; for that name never failed to produce its usual effect upon her;
"then we maun a' follow—a' maun ride when she is in the saddle. Tell them to let Lord Geraldin
ken we're on before them. Bring my hood and scarf—ye wadna hae me gang in the carriage wi'
my leddy, and my hair in this fashion?"

She raised her shrivelled arms, and seemed busied like a woman who puts on her cloak to go
abroad, then dropped them slowly and stiffly; and the same idea of a journey still floating
apparently through her head, she proceeded, in a hurried and interrupted manner,—"Call Miss
Neville—What do you mean by Lady Geraldin? I said Eveline Neville, not Lady Geraldin— there's
no Lady Geraldin; tell her that, and bid her change her wet gown, and no' look sae pale. Bairn!
what should she do wi' a bairn?—maidens hae nane, I trow.—Teresa—Teresa—my lady calls us!—Bring
a candle;— the grand staircase is as mirk as a Yule midnight—We are coming, my lady!"—With
these words she sunk back on the settle, and from thence sidelong to the floor. *

* Note I. Elspeth's death.

 Edie ran to support her, but hardly got her in his arms, before he said,
"It's a' ower—she has passed away even with that last word."

"Impossible," said Oldbuck, hastily advancing, as did his nephew. But nothing was more certain.
She had expired with the last hurried word that left her lips; and all that remained before
them were the mortal relics of the creature who had so long struggled with an internal sense
of concealed guilt, joined to all the distresses of age and poverty.

"God grant that she be gane to a better place!" said Edie, as he looked on the lifeless body;
"but oh! there was something lying hard and heavy at her heart. I have seen mony a ane dee,
baith in the field o' battle, and a fair-strae death at hame; but I wad rather see them a'
ower again, as sic a fearfu' flitting as hers!"

"We must call in the neighbours," said Oldbuck, when he had somewhat recovered his horror and
astonishment, "and give warning of this additional calamity. I wish she could have been brought
to a confession. And, though of far less consequence, I could have wished to transcribe that
metrical fragment. But Heaven's will must be done!"

They left the hut accordingly, and gave the alarm in the hamlet, whose matrons instantly assembled
to compose the limbs and arrange the body of her who might be considered as the mother of their
settlement. Oldbuck promised his assistance for the funeral.

"Your honour," said Alison Breck, who was next in age to the deceased, "suld send doun something
to us for keeping up our hearts at the lykewake, for a' Saunders's gin, puir man, was drucken
out at the burial o' Steenie, and we'll no get mony to sit dry-lipped aside the corpse. Elspeth
was unco clever in her young days, as I can mind right weel, but there was aye a word o' her
no being that chancy. Ane suldna speak ill o' the dead—mair by token, o' ane's cummer and neighbour—but
there was queer things said about a leddy and a bairn or she left the Craigburnfoot. And sae,
in gude troth, it will be a puir lykewake, unless your honour sends us something to keep us
cracking."

"You shall have some whisky," answered Oldbuck, "the rather that you have preserved the proper
word for that ancient custom of watching the dead.— You observe, Hector, this is genuine Teutonic,
from the Gothic Leichnam, a corpse. It is quite erroneously called Late-wake, though Brand
favours that modern corruption and derivation."

"I believe," said Hector to himself, "my uncle would give away Monkbarns to any one who would
come to ask it in genuine Teutonic! Not a drop of whisky would the old creatures have got,
had their president asked it for the use of the Late-wake."

While Oldbuck was giving some farther directions, and promising assistance, a servant of Sir
Arthur's came riding very hard along the sands, and stopped his horse when he saw the Antiquary.
"There had something," he said, "very particular happened at the Castle"—(he could not, or
would not, explain what)—"and Miss Wardour had sent him off express to Monkbarns, to beg that
Mr. Oldbuck would come to them without a moment's delay."

"I am afraid," said the Antiquary, "his course also is drawing to a close. What can I do?"

"Do, sir?" exclaimed Hector, with his characteristic impatience,—"get on the horse, and turn
his head homeward—you will be at Knockwinnock Castle in ten minutes."

"He is quite a free goer," said the servant, dismounting to adjust the girths and stirrups,—"he
only pulls a little if he feels a dead weight on him."

"I should soon be a dead weight off him, my friend," said the Antiquary.—"What the devil, nephew,
are you weary of me? or do you suppose me weary of my life, that I should get on the back of
such a Bucephalus as that? No, no, my friend, if I am to be at Knockwinnock to-day, it must
be by walking quietly forward on my own feet, which I will do with as little delay as possible.
Captain M'Intyre may ride that animal himself, if he pleases."

"I have little hope I could be of any use, uncle, but I cannot think of their distress without
wishing to show sympathy at least—so I will ride on before, and announce to them that you are
coming.—I'll trouble you for your spurs, my friend."

"You will scarce need them, sir," said the man, taking them off at the same time, and buckling
them upon Captain Mlntyre's heels, "he's very frank to the road."

Oldbuck stood astonished at this last act of temerity, "are you mad, Hector?" he cried, "or
have you forgotten what is said by Quintus Curtius, with whom, as a soldier, you must needs
be familiar,—Nobilis equus umbra quidem virgae regitur; ignavus ne calcari quidem excitari
potest; which plainly shows that spurs are useless in every case, and, I may add, dangerous
in most."

But Hector, who cared little for the opinion of either Quintus Curtius or of the Antiquary,
upon such a topic, only answered with a heedless "Never fear—never fear, sir."

              With that he gave his able horse the head,
              And, bending forward, struck his armed heels
              Against the panting sides of his poor jade,
                Up to the rowel-head; and starting so,
                He seemed in running to devour the way,
                      Staying no longer question.

"There they go, well matched," said Oldbuck, looking after them as they started—"a mad horse
and a wild boy, the two most unruly creatures in Christendom! and all to get half an hour sooner
to a place where nobody wants him; for I doubt Sir Arthur's griefs are beyond the cure of our
light horseman.

Murmuring to himself such scraps of cynical philosophy, our Antiquary paced the sands towards
Knockwinnock; but it is necessary we should outstrip him, for the purpose of explaining the
reasons of his being so anxiously summoned thither.

CHAPTER TWENTIETH.

             So, while the Goose, of whom the fable told,
                Incumbent, brooded o'er her eggs of gold,
             With hand outstretched, impatient to destroy,
                Stole on her secret nest the cruel Boy,
             Whose gripe rapacious changed her splendid dream,
            —For wings vain fluttering, and for dying scream.
                                   The Loves of the Sea-weeds.

From the time that Sir Arthur Wardour had become possessor of the treasure found in Misticot's
grave, he had been in a state of mind more resembling ecstasy than sober sense. Indeed, at
one time his daughter had become seriously apprehensive for his intellect; for, as he had no
doubt that he had the secret of possessing himself of wealth to an unbounded extent, his language
and carriage were those of a man who had acquired the philosopher's stone. He talked of buying
contiguous estates, that would have led him from one side of the island to the other, as if
he were determined to brook no neighbour save the sea. He corresponded with an architect of
eminence, upon a plan of renovating the castle of his forefathers on a style of extended magnificence
that might have rivalled that of Windsor, and laying out the grounds on a suitable scale. Troops
of liveried menials were already, in fancy, marshalled in his halls, and—for what may not unbounded
wealth authorize its possessor to aspire to?—the coronet of a marquis, perhaps of a duke, was
glittering before his imagination. His daughter—to what matches might she not look forward?
Even an alliance with the blood-royal was not beyond the sphere of his hopes. His son was already
a general—and he himself whatever ambition could dream of in its wildest visions.

In this mood, if any one endeavoured to bring Sir Arthur down to the regions of common life,
his replies were in the vein of Ancient Pistol—

                   A fico for the world, and worldlings base
                   I speak of Africa and golden joys!

The reader may conceive the amazement of Miss Wardour, when, instead of undergoing an investigation
concerning the addresses of Lovel, as she had expected from the long conference of her father
with Mr. Oldbuck, upon the morning of the fated day when the treasure was discovered, the conversation
of Sir Arthur announced an imagination heated with the hopes of possessing the most unbounded
wealth. But she was seriously alarmed when Dousterswivel was sent for to the Castle, and was
closeted with her father—his mishap condoled with—his part taken, and his loss compensated.
All the suspicions which she had long entertained respecting this man became strengthened,
by observing his pains to keep up the golden dreams of her father, and to secure for himself,
under various pretexts, as much as possible out of the windfall which had so strangely fallen
to Sir Arthur's share.

Other evil symptoms began to appear, following close on each other. Letters arrived every post,
which Sir Arthur, as soon as he had looked at the directions, flung into the fire without taking
the trouble to open them. Miss Wardour could not help suspecting that these epistles, the contents
of which seemed to be known to her father by a sort of intuition, came from pressing creditors.
In the meanwhile, the temporary aid which he had received from the treasure dwindled fast away.
By far the greater part had been swallowed up by the necessity of paying the bill of six hundred
pounds, which had threatened Sir Arthur with instant distress. Of the rest, some part was given
to the adept, some wasted upon extravagances which seemed to the poor knight fully authorized
by his full-blown hopes,—and some went to stop for a time the mouths of such claimants as,
being weary of fair promises, had become of opinion with Harpagon, that it was necessary to
touch something substantial. At length circumstances announced but too plainly, that it was
all expended within two or three days after its discovery; and there appeared no prospect of
a supply. Sir Arthur, naturally impatient, now taxed Dousterswivel anew with breach of those
promises through which he had hoped to convert all his lead into gold. But that worthy gentleman's
turn was now served; and as he had grace enough to wish to avoid witnessing the fall of the
house which he had undermined, he was at the trouble of bestowing a few learned terms of art
upon Sir Arthur, that at least he might not be tormented before his time. He took leave of
him, with assurances that he would return to Knockwinnock the next morning, with such information
as would not fail to relieve Sir Arthur from all his distresses.

"For, since I have consulted in such matters, I ave never," said Mr. Herman Dousterswivel,
"approached so near de arcanum, what you call de great mystery,—de Panchresta—de Polychresta—I
do know as much of it as Pelaso de Taranta, or Basilius—and either I will bring you in two
and tree days de No. III. of Mr. Mishdigoat, or you shall call me one knave myself, and never
look me in de face again no more at all."

The adept departed with this assurance, in the firm resolution of making good the latter part
of the proposition, and never again appearing before his injured patron. Sir Arthur remained
in a doubtful and anxious state of mind. The positive assurances of the philosopher, with the
hard words Panchresta, Basilius, and so forth, produced some effect on his mind. But he had
been too often deluded by such jargon, to be absolutely relieved of his doubt, and he retired
for the evening into his library, in the fearful state of one who, hanging over a precipice,
and without the means of retreat, perceives the stone on which he rests gradually parting from
the rest of the crag, and about to give way with him.

The visions of hope decayed, and there increased in proportion that feverish agony of anticipation
with which a man, educated in a sense of consequence, and possessed of opulence,—the supporter
of an ancient name, and the father of two promising children,—foresaw the hour approaching
which should deprive him of all the splendour which time had made familiarly necessary to him,
and send him forth into the world to struggle with poverty, with rapacity, and with scorn.
Under these dire forebodings, his temper, exhausted by the sickness of delayed hope, became
peevish and fretful, and his words and actions sometimes expressed a reckless desperation,
which alarmed Miss Wardour extremely. We have seen, on a former occasion, that Sir Arthur was
a man of passions lively and quick, in proportion to the weakness of his character in other
respects; he was unused to contradiction, and if he had been hitherto, in general, good-humoured
and cheerful, it was probably because the course of his life had afforded no such frequent
provocation as to render his irritability habitual.

On the third morning after Dousterswivel's departure, the servant, as usual, laid on the breakfast
table the newspaper and letters of the day. Miss Wardour took up the former to avoid the continued
ill-humour of her father, who had wrought himself into a violent passion, because the toast
was over-browned.

"I perceive how it is," was his concluding speech on this interesting subject,—"my servants,
who have had their share of my fortune, begin to think there is little to be made of me in
future. But while I am the scoundrel's master I will be so, and permit no neglect—no, nor endure
a hair's-breadth diminution of the respect I am entitled to exact from them."

"I am ready to leave your honour's service this instant," said the domestic upon whom the fault
had been charged, "as soon as you order payment of my wages."

Sir Arthur, as if stung by a serpent, thrust his hand into his pocket, and instantly drew out
the money which it contained, but which was short of the man's claim. "What money have you
got, Miss Wardour?" he said, in a tone of affected calmness, but which concealed violent agitation.

Miss Wardour gave him her purse; he attempted to count the bank notes which it contained, but
could not reckon them. After twice miscounting the sum, he threw the whole to his daughter,
and saying, in a stern voice, "Pay the rascal, and let him leave the house instantly!" he strode
out of the room.

The mistress and servant stood alike astonished at the agitation and vehemence of his manner.

"I am sure, ma'am, if I had thought I was particularly wrang, I wadna hae made ony answer when
Sir Arthur challenged me. I hae been lang in his service, and he has been a kind master, and
you a kind mistress, and I wad like ill ye should think I wad start for a hasty word. I am
sure it was very wrang o' me to speak about wages to his honour, when maybe he has something
to vex him. I had nae thoughts o' leaving the family in this way."

"Go down stair, Robert," said his mistress—"something has happened to fret my father—go down
stairs, and let Alick answer the bell."

When the man left the room, Sir Arthur re-entered, as if he had been watching his departure.
"What's the meaning of this?" he said hastily, as he observed the notes lying still on the
table—"Is he not gone? Am I neither to be obeyed as a master or a father?"

"He is gone to give up his charge to the housekeeper, sir,—I thought there was not such instant
haste."

"There is haste, Miss Wardour," answered her father, interrupting her;—"What I do henceforth
in the house of my forefathers, must be done speedily, or never."

He then sate down, and took up with a trembling hand the basin of tea prepared for him, protracting
the swallowing of it, as if to delay the necessity of opening the post-letters which lay on
the table, and which he eyed from time to time, as if they had been a nest of adders ready
to start into life and spring upon him.

"You will be happy to hear," said Miss Wardour, willing to withdraw her father's mind from
the gloomy reflections in which he appeared to be plunged, "you will be happy to hear, sir,
that Lieutenant Taffril's gun-brig has got safe into Leith Roads—I observe there had been apprehensions
for his safety—I am glad we did not hear them till they were contradicted."

"And what is Taffril and his gun-brig to me?"

"Sir!" said Miss Wardour in astonishment; for Sir Arthur, in his ordinary state of mind, took
a fidgety sort of interest in all the gossip of the day and country.

"I say," he repeated in a higher and still more impatient key, "what do I care who is saved
or lost? It's nothing to me, I suppose?"

"I did not know you were busy, Sir Arthur; and thought, as Mr. Taffril is a brave man, and
from our own country, you would be happy to hear"—

"Oh, I am happy—as happy as possible—and, to make you happy too, you shall have some of my
good news in return." And he caught up a letter. "It does not signify which I open first—they
are all to the same tune."

He broke the seal hastily, ran the letter over, and then threw it to his daughter. "Ay—I could
not have lighted more happily!—this places the copestone."

Miss Wardour, in silent terror, took up the letter. "Read it—read it aloud!" said her father;
"it cannot be read too often; it will serve to break you in for other good news of the same kind."

She began to read with a faltering voice, "Dear Sir."

"He dears me too, you see, this impudent drudge of a writer's office, who, a twelvemonth since,
was not fit company for my second table—I suppose I shall be dear Knight' with him by and by."

"Dear Sir," resumed Miss Wardour; but, interrupting herself, "I see the contents are unpleasant,
sir—it will only vex you my reading them aloud."

"If you will allow me to know my own pleasure, Miss Wardour, I entreat you to go on—I presume,
if it were unnecessary, I should not ask you to take the trouble."

"Having been of late taken into copartnery," continued Miss Wardour, reading the letter, "by
Mr. Gilbert Greenhorn, son of your late correspondent and man of business, Girnigo Greenhorn,
Esq., writer to the signet, whose business I conducted as parliament-house clerk for many years,
which business will in future be carried on under the firm of Greenhorn and Grinderson (which
I memorandum for the sake of accuracy in addressing your future letters), and having had of
late favours of yours, directed to my aforesaid partner, Gilbert Greenhorn, in consequence
of his absence at the Lamberton races, have the honour to reply to your said favours."

"You see my friend is methodical, and commences by explaining the causes which have procured
me so modest and elegant a correspondent. Go on—I can bear it."

And he laughed that bitter laugh which is perhaps the most fearful expression of mental misery.
Trembling to proceed, and yet afraid to disobey, Miss Wardour continued to read—"I am for myself
and partner, sorry we cannot oblige you by looking out for the sums you mention, or applying
for a suspension in the case of Goldiebirds' bond, which would be more inconsistent, as we
have been employed to act as the said Goldiebirds' procurators and attorneys, in which capacity
we have taken out a charge of horning against you, as you must be aware by the schedule left
by the messenger, for the sum of four thousand seven hundred and fifty-six pounds five shillings
and sixpence one-fourth of a penny sterling, which, with annual-rent and expenses effeiring,
we presume will be settled during the currency of the charge, to prevent further trouble. Same
time, I am under the necessity to observe our own account, amounting to seven hundred and sixty-nine
pounds ten shillings and sixpence, is also due, and settlement would be agreeable; but as we
hold your rights, title-deeds, and documents in hypothec, shall have no objection to give reasonable
time—say till the next money term. I am, for myself and partner, concerned to add, that Messrs.
Goldiebirds' instructions to us are to proceed peremptorie and sine mora, of which I have the
pleasure to advise you, to prevent future mistakes, reserving to ourselves otherwise to age'
as accords. I am, for self and partner, dear sir, your obliged humble servant, Gabriel Grinderson,
for Greenhorn and Grinderson."

"Ungrateful villain!" said Miss Wardour.

"Why, no—it's in the usual rule, I suppose; the blow could not have been perfect if dealt by
another hand—it's all just as it should be," answered the poor Baronet, his affected composure
sorely belied by his quivering lip and rolling eye—"But here's a postscript I did not notice—come,
finish the epistle."

"I have to add (not for self but partner) that Mr. Greenhorn will accommodate you by taking
your service of plate, or the bay horses, if sound in wind and limb, at a fair appreciation,
in part payment of your accompt."

"G—d confound him!" said Sir Arthur, losing all command of himself at this condescending proposal:
"his grandfather shod my father's horses, and this descendant of a scoundrelly blacksmith proposes
to swindle me out of mine! But I will write him a proper answer."

And he sate down and began to write with great vehemence, then stopped and read aloud:—"Mr.
Gilbert Greenhorn,—in answer to two letters of a late date, I received a letter from a person
calling himself Grinderson, and designing himself as your partner. When I address any one,
I do not usually expect to be answered by deputy—I think I have been useful to your father,
and friendly and civil to yourself, and therefore am now surprised—And yet," said he, stopping
short, "why should I be surprised at that or anything else? or why should I take up my time
in writing to such a scoundrel?—I shan't be always kept in prison, I suppose; and to break
that puppy's bones when I get out, shall be my first employment."

"In prison, sir?" said Miss Wardour, faintly.

"Ay, in prison to be sure. Do you make any question about that? Why, Mr. what's his name's
fine letter for self and partner seems to be thrown away on you, or else you have got four
thousand so many hundred pounds, with the due proportion of shillings, pence, and half-pence,
to pay that aforesaid demand, as he calls it."

"I, sir? O if I had the means!—But where's my brother?—why does he not come, and so long in
Scotland? He might do something to assist us."

"Who, Reginald?—I suppose he's gone with Mr. Gilbert Greenhorn, or some such respectable person,
to the Lamberton races—I have expected him this week past; but I cannot wonder that my children
should neglect me as well as every other person. But I should beg your pardon, my love, who
never either neglected or offended me in your life."

And kissing her cheek as she threw her arms round his neck, he experienced that consolation
which a parent feels, even in the most distressed state, in the assurance that he possesses
the affection of a child.

Miss Wardour took the advantage of this revulsion of feeling, to endeavour to soothe her father's
mind to composure. She reminded him that he had many friends.

"I had many once," said Sir Arthur; "but of some I have exhausted their kindness with my frantic
projects; others are unable to assist me—others are unwilling. It is all over with me. I only
hope Reginald will take example by my folly."

"Should I not send to Monkbarns, sir?" said his daughter.

"To what purpose? He cannot lend me such a sum, and would not if he could, for he knows I am
otherwise drowned in debt; and he would only give me scraps of misanthropy and quaint ends
of Latin."

"But he is shrewd and sensible, and was bred to business, and, I am sure, always loved this
family."

"Yes, I believe he did. It is a fine pass we are come to, when the affection of an Oldbuck
is of consequence to a Wardour! But when matters come to extremity, as I suppose they presently
will—it may be as well to send for him. And now go take your walk, my dear—my mind is more
composed than when I had this cursed disclosure to make. You know the worst, and may daily
or hourly expect it. Go take your walk—I would willingly be alone for a little while."

When Miss Wardour left the apartment, her first occupation was to avail herself of the half
permission granted by her father, by despatching to Monkbarns the messenger, who, as we have
already seen, met the Antiquary and his nephew on the sea-beach.

