All this is the consequence, I repeat, of the Renaissance and the Reformation, which, although
apparently they lived in a state of internecine war, were twin-brothers. The Italians of the
Renaissance were all of them Socinians; the humanists, with Erasmus at their head, regarded
Luther, the German monk, as a barbarian, who derived his driving force from the cloister, as
did Bruno and Campanella. But this barbarian was their twin-brother, and though their antagonist
he was also the antagonist of the common enemy. All this, I say, is due to the Renaissance
and the Reformation, and to what was the offspring of these two, the Revolution, and to them
we owe also a new Inquisition, that of science or culture, which turns against those who refuse
to submit to its orthodoxy the weapons of ridicule and contempt.

When Galileo sent his treatise on the earth's motion to the Grand Duke of Tuscany, he told
him that it was meet that that which the higher authorities had determined should be believed
and obeyed, and that he considered his treatise "as poetry or as a dream, and as such I desire
your highness to receive it." And at other times he calls it a "chimera" or a "mathematical
caprice." And in the same way in these essays, for fear also--why not confess it?--of the Inquisition,
of the modern, the scientific, Inquisition, I offer as a poetry, dream, chimera, mystical caprice,
that which springs from what is deepest in me. And I say with Galileo, Eppur si muove! But
is it only because of this fear? Ah, no! for there is another, more tragic Inquisition, and
that is the Inquisition which the modern man, the man of culture, the European--and such am
I, whether I will or not--carries within him. There is a more terrible ridicule, and that is
the ridicule with which a man contemplates his own self. It is my reason that laughs at my
faith and despises it.

And it is here that I must betake me to my Lord Don Quixote in order that I may learn of him
how to confront ridicule and overcome it, and a ridicule which perhaps--who knows?--he never knew.

Yes, yes--how shall my reason not smile at these dilettantesque, would-be mystical, pseudo-philosophical
interpretations, in which there is anything rather than patient study and--shall I say scientific?--objectivity
and method? And nevertheless ... eppur si muove!

Eppur si muove! And I take refuge in dilettantism, in what a pedant would call demi-mondaine
philosophy, as a shelter against the pedantry of specialists, against the philosophy of the
professional philosophers. And who knows?... Progress usually comes from the barbarian, and
there is nothing more stagnant than the philosophy of the philosophers and the theology of
the theologians.

Let them talk to us of Europe! The civilization of Thibet is parallel with ours, and men who
disappear like ourselves have lived and are living by it. And over all civilizations there
hovers the shadow of Ecclesiastes, with his admonition, "How dieth the wise man?--as the fool"
(ii. 16).

Among the people of my country there is an admirable reply to the customary interrogation,
"How are you?"[59] and it is "Living." And that is the truth--we are living, and living as
much as all the rest. What can a man ask for more?

Among us Spaniards another phrase has very rapidly passed into current usage, the expression
"It's a question of passing the time," or "killing the time." And, in fact, we make time in
order to kill it. But there is something that has always preoccupied us as much as or more
than passing the time--a formula which denotes an esthetical attitude--and that is, gaining
eternity, which is the formula of the religious attitude. The truth is, we leap from the esthetic
and the economic to the religious, passing over the logical and the ethical; we jump from art
to religion.

One of our younger novelists, Ramón Pérez de Ayala, in his recent novel, La Pata de la Raposa,
has told us that the idea of death is the trap, and spirit the fox or the wary virtue with
which to circumvent the ambushes set by fatality, and he continues: "Caught in the trap, weak
men and weak peoples lie prone on the ground ...; to robust spirits and strong peoples the
rude shock of danger gives clear-sightedness; they quickly penetrate into the heart of the
immeasurable beauty of life, and renouncing for ever their original hastiness and folly, emerge
from the trap with muscles taut for action and with the soul's vigour, power, and efficiency
increased a hundredfold." But let us see; weak men ... weak peoples ... robust spirits ...
strong peoples ... what does all this mean? I do not know. What I think I know is that some
individuals and peoples have not yet really thought about death and immortality, have not felt
them, and that others have ceased to think about them, or rather ceased to feel them. And the
fact that they have never passed through the religious period is not, I think, a matter for
either men or peoples to boast about.

The immeasurable beauty of life is a very fine thing to write about, and there are, indeed,
some who resign themselves to it and accept it as it is, and even some who would persuade us
that there is no problem in the "trap." But it has been said by Calderón that "to seek to persuade
a man that the misfortunes which he suffers are not misfortunes, does not console him for them,
but is another misfortune in addition."[61] And, furthermore, "only the heart can speak to
the heart," as Fray Diego de Estella said (Vanidad del Mundo, cap. xxi.).

A short time ago a reply that I made to those who reproached us Spaniards for our scientific
incapacity appeared to scandalize some people. After having remarked that the electric light
and the steam engine function here in Spain just as well as in the countries where they were
invented, and that we make use of logarithms as much as they do in the country where the idea
of them was first conceived, I exclaimed, "Let others invent!"--a paradoxical expression which
I do not retract. We Spaniards ought to appropriate to ourselves some of those sage counsels
which Count Joseph de Maistre gave to the Russians, a people not unlike ourselves. In his admirable
letters to Count Rasoumowski on public education in Russia, he said that a nation should not
think the worse of itself because it was not made for science; that the Romans had no understanding
of the arts, neither did they possess a mathematician, which, however, did not prevent them
from playing their part in the world; and in particular we should take to heart everything
that he said about that crowd of arrogant sciolists who idolize the tastes, the fashions, and
the languages of foreign countries, and are ever ready to pull down whatever they despise--and
they despise everything.

We have not the scientific spirit? And what of that, if we have some other spirit? And who
can tell if the spirit that we have is or is not compatible with the scientific spirit?

But in saying "Let others invent!" I did not mean to imply that we must be content with playing
a passive rôle. No. For them their science, by which we shall profit; for us, our own work.
It is not enough to be on the defensive, we must attack.

But we must attack wisely and cautiously. Reason must be our weapon. It is the weapon even
of the fool. Our sublime fool and our exemplar, Don Quixote, after he had destroyed with two
strokes of his sword that pasteboard visor "which he had fitted to his head-piece, made it
anew, placing certain iron bars within it, in such a manner that he rested satisfied with its
solidity, and without wishing to make a second trial of it, he deputed and held it in estimation
of a most excellent visor."[62] And with the pasteboard visor on his head he made himself immortal--that
is to say, he made himself ridiculous. For it was by making himself ridiculous that Don Quixote
achieved his immortality.

And there are so many ways of making ourselves ridiculous I ... Cournot said (Traité de l'enchaînement
des idées fondamentales, etc., § 510): "It is best not to speak to either princes or peoples
of the probabilities of death; princes will punish this temerity with disgrace; the public
will revenge itself with ridicule." True, and therefore it is said that we must live as the
age lives. Corrumpere et corrumpi sæculum vocatur (Tacitus: Germania 19).

It is necessary to know how to make ourselves ridiculous, and not only to others but to ourselves.
And more than ever to-day, when there is so much chatter about our backwardness compared with
other civilized peoples, to-day when a parcel of shallow-brained critics say that we have had
no science, no art, no philosophy, no Renaissance, (of this we had perhaps too much), no anything,
these same critics being ignorant of our real history, a history that remains yet to be written,
the first task being to undo the web of calumniation and protest that has been woven around it.

Carducci, the author of the phrase about the contorcimenti dell'affannosa grandiositá spagnola,
has written (in Mosche Cochiere) that "even Spain, which never attained the hegemony of the
world of thought, had her Cervantes." But was Cervantes a solitary and isolated phenomenon,
without roots, without ancestry, without a foundation? That an Italian rationalist, remembering
that it was Spain that reacted against the Renaissance in his country, should say that Spain
non ebbe egemonia mai di pensiero is, however, readily comprehended. Was there no importance,
was there nothing akin to cultural hegemony, in the Counter-Reformation, of which Spain was
the champion, and which in point of fact began with the sack of Rome by the Spaniards, a providential
chastisement of the city of the pagan popes of the pagan Renaissance? Apart from the question
as to whether the Counter-Reformation was good or bad, was there nothing akin to hegemony in
Loyola or the Council of Trent? Previous to this Council, Italy witnessed a nefarious and unnatural
union between Christianity and Paganism, or rather, between immortalism and mortalism, a union
to which even some of the Popes themselves consented in their souls; theological error was
philosophical truth, and all difficulties were solved by the accommodating formula salva fide.
But it was otherwise after the Council; after the Council came the open and avowed struggle
between reason and faith, science and religion. And does not the fact that this change was
brought about, thanks principally to Spanish obstinacy, point to something akin to hegemony?

Without the Counter-Reformation, would the Reformation have followed the course that it did
actually follow? Without the Counter-Reformation might not the Reformation, deprived of the
support of pietism, have perished in the gross rationalism of the Aufklärung, of the age of
Enlightenment? Would nothing have been changed had there been no Charles I., no Philip II.,
our great Philip?

A negative achievement, it will be said. But what is that? What is negative? what is positive?
At what point in time--a line always continuing in the same direction, from the past to the
future--does the zero occur which denotes the boundary between the positive and the negative?
Spain, which is said to be the land of knights and rogues--and all of them rogues--has been
the country most slandered by history precisely because it championed the Counter-Reformation.
And because its arrogance has prevented it from stepping down into the public forum, into the
world's vanity fair, and publishing its own justification.

Let us leave on one side Spain's eight centuries of warfare against the Moors, during which
she defended Europe from Mohammedanism, her work of internal unification, her discovery of
America and the Indies--for this was the achievement of Spain and Portugal, and not of Columbus
and Vasco da Gama--let us leave all this, and more than this, on one side, and it is not a
little thing. Is it not a cultural achievement to have created a score of nations, reserving
nothing for herself, and to have begotten, as the Conquistadores did, free men on poor Indian
slaves? Apart from all this, does our mysticism count for nothing in the world of thought?
Perhaps the peoples whose souls Helen will ravish away with her kisses may some day have to
return to this mysticism to find their souls again.

But, as everybody knows, Culture is composed of ideas and only of ideas, and man is only Culture's
instrument. Man for the idea, and not the idea for man; the substance for the shadow. The end
of man is to create science, to catalogue the Universe, so that it may be handed back to God
in order, as I wrote years ago in my novel, Amor y Pedagogia. Man, apparently, is not even
an idea. And at the end of all, the human race will fall exhausted at the foot of a pile of
libraries--whole woods rased to the ground to provide the paper that is stored away in them--museums,
machines, factories, laboratories ... in order to bequeath them--to whom? For God will surely
not accept them.

That horrible regenerationist literature, almost all of it an imposture, which the loss of
our last American colonies provoked, led us into the pedantry of extolling persevering and
silent effort--and this with great vociferation, vociferating silence--of extolling prudence,
exactitude, moderation, spiritual fortitude, synteresis, equanimity, the social virtues, and
the chiefest advocates of them were those of us who lacked them most. Almost all of us Spaniards
fell into this ridiculous mode of literature, some more and some less. And so it befell that
that arch-Spaniard Joaquín Costa, one of the least European spirits we ever had, invented his
famous saying that we must Europeanize Spain, and, while proclaiming that we must lock up the
sepulchre of the Cid with a sevenfold lock, Cid-like urged us to--conquer Africa! And I myself
uttered the cry, "Down with Don Quixote!" and from this blasphemy, which meant the very opposite
of what it said--such was the fashion of the hour--sprang my Vida de Don Quijote y Sancho and
my cult of Quixotism as the national religion.

I wrote that book in order to rethink Don Quixote in opposition to the Cervantists and erudite
persons, in order to make a living work of what was and still is for the majority a dead letter.
What does it matter to me what Cervantes intended or did not intend to put into it and what
he actually did put into it? What is living in it is what I myself discover in it, whether
Cervantes put it there or not, what I myself put into and under and over it, and what we all
put into it. I wanted to hunt down our philosophy in it.

For the conviction continually grows upon me that our philosophy, the Spanish philosophy, is
liquescent and diffused in our literature, in our life, in our action, in our mysticism, above
all, and not in philosophical systems. It is concrete. And is there not perhaps as much philosophy
or more in Goethe, for example, as in Hegel? The poetry of Jorge Manrique, the Romancero, Don
Quijote, La Vida es Sueño, the Subida al Monte Carmelo, imply an intuition of the world and
a concept of life (Weltanschauung und Lebensansicht). And it was difficult for this philosophy
of ours to formulate itself in the second half of the nineteenth century, a period that was
aphilosophical, positivist, technicist, devoted to pure history and the natural sciences, a
period essentially materialist and pessimist.

Our language itself, like every cultured language, contains within itself an implicit philosophy.

A language, in effect, is a potential philosophy. Platonism is the Greek language which discourses
in Plato, unfolding its secular metaphors; scholasticism is the philosophy of the dead Latin
of the Middle Ages wrestling with the popular tongues; the French language discourses in Descartes,
the German in Kant and in Hegel, and the English in Hume and in Stuart Mill. For the truth
is that the logical starting-point of all philosophical speculation is not the I, neither is
it representation (Vorstellung), nor the world as it presents itself immediately to the senses;
but it is mediate or historical representation, humanly elaborated and such as it is given
to us principally in the language by means of which we know the world; it is not psychical
but spiritual representation. When we think, we are obliged to set out, whether we know it
not and whether we will or not, from what has been thought by others who came before us and
who environ us. Thought is an inheritance. Kant thought in German, and into German he translated
Hume and Rousseau, who thought in English and French respectively. And did not Spinoza think
in Judeo-Portuguese, obstructed by and contending with Dutch?

Thought rests upon prejudgements, and prejudgements pass into language. To language Bacon rightly
ascribed not a few of the errors of the idola fori. But is it possible to philosophize in pure
algebra or even in Esperanto? In order to see the result of such an attempt one has only to
read the work of Avenarius on the criticism of pure experience (reine Erfahrung), of this prehuman
or inhuman experience. And even Avenarius, who was obliged to invent a language, invented one
that was based upon the Latin tradition, with roots which carry in their metaphorical implications
a content of impure experience, of human social experience.

All philosophy is, therefore, at bottom philology. And philology, with its great and fruitful
law of analogical formations, opens wide the door to chance, to the irrational, to the absolutely
incommensurable. History is not mathematics, neither is philosophy. And how many philosophical
ideas are not strictly owing to something akin to rhyme, to the necessity of rightly placing
a consonant! In Kant himself there is a great deal of this, of esthetic symmetry, rhyme.

Representation is, therefore, like language, like reason itself--which is simply internal language--a
social and racial product, and race, the blood of the spirit, is language, as Oliver Wendell
Holmes has said, and as I have often repeated.

It was in Athens and with Socrates that our Western philosophy first became mature, conscious
of itself, and it arrived at this consciousness by means of the dialogue, of social conversation.
And it is profoundly significant that the doctrine of innate ideas, of the objective and normative
value of ideas, of what Scholasticism afterwards knew as Realism, should have formulated itself
in dialogues. And these ideas, which constitute reality, are names, as Nominalism showed. Not
that they may not be more than names (flatus vocis), but that they are nothing less than names.
Language is that which gives us reality, and not as a mere vehicle of reality, but as its true
flesh, of which all the rest, dumb or inarticulate representation, is merely the skeleton.
And thus logic operates upon esthetics, the concept upon the expression, upon the word, and
not upon the brute perception.

And this is true even in the matter of love. Love does not discover that it is love until it
speaks, until it says, I love thee! In Stendhal's novel, La Chartreuse de Parme, it is with
a very profound intuition that Count Mosca, furious with jealousy because of the love which
he believes unites the Duchess of Sanseverina with his nephew Fabrice, is made to say, "I must
be calm; if my manner is violent the duchess, simply because her vanity is piqued, is capable
of following Belgirate, and then, during the journey, chance may lead to a word which will
give a name to the feelings they bear towards each other, and thereupon in a moment all the
consequences will follow."

Even so--all things were made by the word, and the word was in the beginning.

Thought, reason--that is, living language--is an inheritance, and the solitary thinker of Aben
Tofail, the Arab philosopher of Guadix, is as absurd as the ego of Descartes. The real and
concrete truth, not the methodical and ideal, is: homo sum, ergo cogito. To feel oneself a
man is more immediate than to think. But, on the other hand, History, the process of culture,
finds its perfection and complete effectivity only in the individual; the end of History and
Humanity is man, each man, each individual. Homo sum, ergo cogito; cogito ut sim Michael de
Unamuno. The individual is the end of the Universe.

And we Spaniards feel this very strongly, that the individual is the end of the Universe. The
introspective individuality of the Spaniard was pointed out by Martin A.S. Hume in a passage
in The Spanish People,[63] upon which I commented in an essay published in La España Moderna.[64]

And it is perhaps this same introspective individualism which has not permitted the growth
on Spanish soil of strictly philosophical--or, rather, metaphysical--systems. And this in spite
of Suárez, whose formal subtilties do not merit the name of philosophy.

Our metaphysics, if we can be said to possess such a thing, has been metanthropics, and our
metaphysicians have been philologists--or, rather, humanists--in the most comprehensive sense
of the term.

Menéndez de Pelayo, as Benedetto Croce very truly said (Estetica, bibliographical appendix),
was inclined towards metaphysical idealism, but he appeared to wish to take something from
other systems, even from empirical theories. For this reason Croce considers that his work
(referring to his Historia de las ideas estéticas de España) suffers from a certain uncertainty,
from the theoretical point of view of its author, Menéndez de Pelayo, which was that of a perfervid
Spanish humanist, who, not wishing to disown the Renaissance, invented what he called Vivism,
the philosophy of Luis Vives, and perhaps for no other reason than because he himself, like
Vives, was an eclectic Spaniard of the Renaissance. And it is true that Menéndez de Pelayo,
whose philosophy is certainly all uncertainty, educated in Barcelona in the timidities of the
Scottish philosophy as it had been imported into the Catalan spirit--that creeping philosophy
of common sense, which was anxious not to compromise itself and yet was all compromise, and
which is so well exemplified in Balmes--always shunned all strenuous inward combat and formed
his consciousness upon compromises.

Angel Ganivet, a man all divination and instinct, was more happily inspired, in my opinion,
when he proclaimed that the Spanish philosophy was that of Seneca, the pagan Stoic of Cordoba,
whom not a few Christians regarded as one of themselves, a philosophy lacking in originality
of thought but speaking with great dignity of tone and accent. His accent was a Spanish, Latino-African
accent, not Hellenic, and there are echoes of him in Tertullian--Spanish, too, at heart--who
believed in the corporal and substantial nature of God and the soul, and who was a kind of
Don Quixote in the world of Christian thought in the second century.

But perhaps we must look for the hero of Spanish thought, not in any actual flesh-and-bone
philosopher, but in a creation of fiction, a man of action, who is more real than all the philosophers--Don
Quixote. There is undoubtedly a philosophical Quixotism, but there is also a Quixotic philosophy.
May it not perhaps be that the philosophy of the Conquistadores, of the Counter-Reformers,
of Loyola, and above all, in the order of abstract but deeply felt thought, that of our mystics,
was, in its essence, none other than this? What was the mysticism of St. John of the Cross
but a knight-errantry of the heart in the divine warfare?

And the philosophy of Don Quixote cannot strictly be called idealism; he did not fight for
ideas. It was of the spiritual order; he fought for the spirit.

Imagine Don Quixote turning his heart to religious speculation--as he himself once dreamed
of doing when he met those images in bas-relief which certain peasants were carrying to set
up in the retablo of their village church[65]--imagine Don Quixote given up to meditation upon
eternal truths, and see him ascending Mount Carmel in the middle of the dark night of the soul,
to watch from its summit the rising of that sun which never sets, and, like the eagle that
was St. John's companion in the isle of Patmos, to gaze upon it face to face and scrutinize
its spots. He leaves to Athena's owl--the goddess with the glaucous, or owl-like, eyes, who
sees in the dark but who is dazzled by the light of noon--he leaves to the owl that accompanied
Athena in Olympus the task of searching with keen eyes in the shadows for the prey wherewith
to feed its young.

And the speculative or meditative Quixotism is, like the practical Quixotism, madness, a daughter-madness
to the madness of the Cross. And therefore it is despised by the reason. At bottom, philosophy
abhors Christianity, and well did the gentle Marcus Aurelius prove it.

The tragedy of Christ, the divine tragedy, is the tragedy of the Cross. Pilate, the sceptic,
the man of culture, by making a mockery of it, sought to convert it into a comedy; he conceived
the farcical idea of the king with the reed sceptre and crown of thorns, and cried "Behold
the man!" But the people, more human than he, the people that thirsts for tragedy, shouted,
"Crucify him! crucify him!" And the human, the intra-human, tragedy is the tragedy of Don Quixote,
whose face was daubed with soap in order that he might make sport for the servants of the dukes
and for the dukes themselves, as servile as their servants. "Behold the madman!" they would
have said. And the comic, the irrational, tragedy is the tragedy of suffering caused by ridicule
and contempt.

The greatest height of heroism to which an individual, like a people, can attain is to know
how to face ridicule; better still, to know how to make oneself ridiculous and not to shrink
from the ridicule.

I have already spoken of the forceful sonnets of that tragic Portuguese, Antero de Quental,
who died by his own hand. Feeling acutely for the plight of his country on the occasion of
the British ultimatum in 1890, he wrote as follows:[66] "An English statesman of the last century,
who was also undoubtedly a perspicacious observer and a philosopher, Horace Walpole, said that
for those who feel, life is a tragedy, and a comedy for those who think. Very well, then, if
we are destined to end tragically, we Portuguese, we who feel, we would far rather prefer this
terrible, but noble, destiny, to that which is reserved, and perhaps at no very remote future
date, for England, the country that thinks and calculates, whose destiny it is to finish miserably
and comically." We may leave on one side the assertion that the English are a thinking and
calculating people, implying thereby their lack of feeling, the injustice of which is explained
by the occasion which provoked it, and also the assertion that the Portuguese feel, implying
that they do not think or calculate--for we twin-brothers of the Atlantic seaboard have always
been distinguished by a certain pedantry of feeling; but there remains a basis of truth underlying
this terrible idea--namely, that some peoples, those who put thought above feeling, I should
say reason above faith, die comically, while those die tragically who put faith above reason.
For the mockers are those who die comically, and God laughs at their comic ending, while the
nobler part, the part of tragedy, is theirs who endured the mockery.

The mockery that underlies the career of Don Quixote is what we must endeavour to discover.

And shall we be told yet again that there has never been any Spanish philosophy in the technical
sense of the word? I will answer by asking, What is this sense? What does philosophy mean?
Windelband, the historian of philosophy, in his essay on the meaning of philosophy (Was ist
Philosophie? in the first volume of his Präludien) tells us that "the history of the word 'philosophy'
is the history of the cultural significance of science." He continues: "When scientific thought
attains an independent existence as a desire for knowledge for the sake of knowledge, it takes
the name of philosophy; when subsequently knowledge as a whole divides into its various branches,
philosophy is the general knowledge of the world that embraces all other knowledge. As soon
as scientific thought stoops again to becoming a means to ethics or religious contemplation,
philosophy is transformed into an art of life or into a formulation of religious beliefs. And
when afterwards the scientific life regains its liberty, philosophy acquires once again its
character as an independent knowledge of the world, and in so far as it abandons the attempt
to solve this problem, it is changed into a theory of knowledge itself." Here you have a brief
recapitulation of the history of philosophy from Thales to Kant, including the medieval scholasticism
upon which it endeavoured to establish religious beliefs. But has philosophy no other office
to perform, and may not its office be to reflect upon the tragic sense of life itself, such
as we have been studying it, to formulate this conflict between reason and faith, between science
and religion, and deliberately to perpetuate this conflict?

Later on Windelband says: "By philosophy in the systematic, not in the historical, sense, I
understand the critical knowledge of values of universal validity (allgemeingiltigen Werten)."
But what values are there of more universal validity than that of the human will seeking before
all else the personal, individual, and concrete immortality of the soul--or, in other words,
the human finality of the Universe--and that of the human reason denying the rationality and
even the possibility of this desire? What values are there of more universal validity than
the rational or mathematical value and the volitional or teleological value of the Universe
in conflict with one another?

For Windelband, as for Kantians and neo-Kantians in general, there are only three normative
categories, three universal norms--those of the true or the false, the beautiful or the ugly,
and the morally good or evil. Philosophy is reduced to logics, esthetics, and ethics, accordingly
as it studies science, art, or morality. Another category remains excluded--namely, that of
the pleasing and the unpleasing, or the agreeable and the disagreeable: in other words, the
hedonic. The hedonic cannot, according to them, pretend to universal validity, it cannot be
normative. "Whosoever throws upon philosophy," wrote Windelband, "the burden of deciding the
question of optimism and pessimism, whosoever demands that philosophy should pronounce judgement
on the question as to whether the world is more adapted to produce pain than pleasure, or vice
versa--such a one, if his attitude is not merely that of a dilettante, sets himself the fantastic
task of finding an absolute determination in a region in which no reasonable man has ever looked
for one." It remains to be seen, nevertheless, whether this is as clear as it seems, in the
case of a man like myself, who am at the same time reasonable and yet nothing but a dilettante,
which of course would be the abomination of desolation.

It was with a very profound insight that Benedetto Croce, in his philosophy of the spirit in
relation to esthetics as the science of expression and to logic as the science of pure concept,
divided practical philosophy into two branches--economics and ethics. He recognizes, in effect,
the existence of a practical grade of spirit, purely economical, directed towards the singular
and unconcerned with the universal. Its types of perfection, of economic genius, are Iago and
Napoleon, and this grade remains outside morality. And every man passes through this grade,
because before all else he must wish to be himself, as an individual, and without this grade
morality would be inexplicable, just as without esthetics logic would lack meaning. And the
discovery of the normative value of the economic grade, which seeks the hedonic, was not unnaturally
the work of an Italian, a disciple of Machiavelli, who speculated so fearlessly with regard
to virtù, practical efficiency, which is not exactly the same as moral virtue.

But at bottom this economic grade is but the rudimentary state of the religious grade. The
religious is the transcendental economic or hedonic. Religion is a transcendental economy and
hedonistic. That which man seeks in religion, in religious faith, is to save his own individuality,
to eternalize it, which he achieves neither by science, nor by art, nor by ethics. God is a
necessity neither for science, nor art, nor ethics; what necessitates God is religion. And
with an insight that amounts to genius our Jesuits speak of the grand business of our salvation.
Business--yes, business; something belonging to the economic, hedonistic order, although transcendental.
We do not need God in order that He may teach us the truth of things, or the beauty of them,
or in order that He may safeguard morality by means of a system of penalties and punishments,
but in order that He may save us, in order that He may not let us die utterly. And because
this unique longing is the longing of each and every normal man--those who are abnormal by
reason of their barbarism or their hyperculture may be left out of the reckoning--it is universal
and normative.

