Along about half way from Cape St. Roque to the Amazon, the wind which had been blowing hard
for two days, from E.S.E., and raising lively waves all about, increased to a gale that knocked
up seas, washing over the little craft more than ever. The thing was becoming monotonous and
tiresome; for a change, therefore, I ran in toward the land, so as to avoid the ugly cross
sea farther out in the current. This course was a mistaken one; we had not sailed far on it
when a sudden rise of the canoe, followed by an unusually long run down on the slope of a roller,
told us of a danger that we hardly dared to think of, then a mighty comber broke, but, as Providence
willed, broke short of the canoe, which under shortened sail was then scudding very fast.

We were on a shoal, and the sea was breaking from the bottom! The second great roller came
on, towering up, up, up, until nothing longer could support the mountain of water, and it seemed
only to pause before its fall to take aim and surely gather us up in its sweeping fury.

I put the helm a-lee; there was nothing else to do but this, and say prayers. The helm hard
down, brought the canoe round, bows to the danger, while in breathless anxiety we prepared
to meet the result as best we could. Before we could say "Save us, or we perish," the sea broke
over with terrific force and passed on, leaving us trembling in His hand, more palpably helpless
than ever before. Other great waves came madly on, leaping toward destruction; how they bellowed
over the shoal! I could smell the slimy bottom of the sea, when they broke! I could taste the
salty sand!

In this perilous situation, buried sometimes in the foaming breakers, and at times tossed like
a reed on the crest of the waves, we struggled with might and main at the helm and the sheets,
easing her up or forcing her ahead with care, gaining little by little toward deep water, till
at last she came out of the danger, shook her feathers like a sea-bird, and rode on waves less
perilous. Then we had time and courage to look back, but not till then.

And what a sight we beheld! The horizon was illumined with phosphorescent light from the breakers
just passed through. The rainstorm which had obscured the coast was so cleared away now that
we could see the whole field of danger behind us. One spot in particular, the place where the
breakers dashed over a rock which appeared awash, in the glare flashed up a shaft of light
that reached to the heavens.

This was the greatest danger we had yet encountered. The elasticity of our canoe, not its bulk,
saved it from destruction. Her light, springy timbers and buoyant bamboo guards brought her
upright again and again through the fierce breakers. We were astonished at the feats of wonder
of our brave little craft.

Fatigued and worn with anxiety, when clear of the shoal we hauled to under close reefs, heading
off shore, and all hands lay down to rest till daylight. Then, squaring away again, we set
what sail the canoe could carry, scudding before it, for the wind was still in our favour,
though blowing very hard. Nevertheless the weather seemed fine and pleasant at this stage of
our own pleased feelings. Any weather that one's craft can live in, after escaping a lee shore,
is pleasant weather--though some may be pleasanter than other.

What we most wished for, after this thrilling experience, was sea room, fair wind, and plenty
of it. That these without stint would suit us best, was agreed on all hands. Accordingly then
I shaped the course seaward, clearing well all the dangers of the land.

The fierce tropical storm of the last few days turned gradually into mild trade-winds, and
our cedar canoe skipped nimbly once more over tranquil seas. Our own agitation, too, had gone
down and we sailed on unruffled by care. Gentle winds carried us on over kindly waves, and
we were fain to count fair days ahead, leaving all thoughts of stormy ones behind. In this
hopeful mood we sailed for many days, our spirits never lowering, but often rising higher out
of the miserable condition which we had fallen into through misfortunes on the foreign shore.
When a star came out, it came as a friend, and one that had been seen by friends of old. When
all the stars shone out, the hour at sea was cheerful, bright, and joyous.

     For every rippling, dancing wave,
       That leaped upon the air,
     Had caught a star in its embrace,
       And held it trembling there.

"The days pass, and our ship flies fast upon her way."

For several days while sailing near the line we saw the constellations of both hemispheres,
but heading north, we left those of the south at last, with the Southern Cross--most beautiful
in all the heavens--to watch over a friend.

Leaving these familiar southern stars and sailing toward constellations in the north, we hoist
all sail to the cheery breeze which carries us on.

In this pleasant state of sailing with our friends all about us, we stood on and on, never
doubting once our pilot or our ship.

A phantom of the stately Aquidneck appeared one night, sweeping by with crowning skysails set,
that fairly brushed the stars. No apparition could have affected us more than the sight of
this floating beauty, so like the Aquidneck, gliding swiftly and quietly by, from her mission
to some foreign land--she, too, was homeward bound!

This incident of the Aquidneck's ghost, as it appeared to us, passing at midnight on the sea,
left a pang of lonesomeness for a while.

But a carrier dove came next day, and perched upon the mast, as if to tell that we had yet
a friend! Welcome harbinger of good! you bring us thoughts of angels.

The lovely visitor remained with us two days, off and on, but left for good on the third, when
we reached away from Avis Island, to which, maybe, it was bound. Coming as it did from the
east, and flying west toward the island when it left, bore out the idea of the lay of sweet
singer Kingsley's "Last Buccaneer."

     If I might but be a sea dove, I'd fly across the main
     To the pleasant Isle of Avis, to look at it once again.

The old Buccaneer, it may have been, but we regarded it as the little bird, which most likely
it was, that sits up aloft to look out for poor "Jack."[6]

A moth, blown to our boat on the ocean, found shelter and a welcome there. The dove we secretly
worshipped.

With utmost confidence in our little craft, inspired by many thrilling events, we now carried
sail, blow high, blow low, till at times she reeled along with a bone in her mouth quite to
the mind of her mariners. Thinking one day that she might carry more sail on the mast already
bending hopefully forward, and acting upon the liberal thought of sail, we made a wide mistake,
for the mainmast went by the board, under the extra press and the foremast tripped over the
bows. Then spars, booms, and sails swung alongside like the broken wings of a bird, but were
grappled, however, and brought aboard without much loss of time. The broken mast was then secured
and strengthened by "fishes" or splints after the manner in which doctors fish a broken limb.

Both of the masts were very soon refitted and again made to carry sail, all they could stand;
and we were again bowling along as before. We made that day a hundred and seventy-five miles,
one of our best days' work.

I protest here that my wife should not have cried "More sail! more sail!" when as it has been
seen the canoe had on all the sail that she could carry. Nothing further happened to change
the usual daily events until we reached Barbadoes. Flying-fish on the wing striking our sails,
at night, often fell on deck, affording us many a toothsome fry. This happened daily, while
sailing throughout the trade-wind regions. To be hit by one of these fish on the wing, which
sometimes occurs, is no light matter, especially if the blow be on the face, as it may cause
a bad bruise or even a black eye. The head of the flying-fish being rather hard makes it in
fact a night slugger to be dreaded. They never come aboard in the daylight. The swift darting
bill-fish, too, is a danger to be avoided in the tropics at night. They are met with mostly
in the Pacific Ocean; therefore South Sea Islanders are loath to voyage during the "bill-fish
season."

As to the flight of these fishes, I would estimate that of the flying-fish as not exceeding
fifteen feet in height, or five hundred yards of distance, often not half so much.

Bill-fish, darting like an arrow from a bow, have, fortunately for sailors, not the power or
do not rise much above the level of the waves, and cannot dart further, say, than two hundred
and fifty feet, according to the day for jumping. Of the many swift fish in the sea, the dolphin,
perhaps, is the most marvellous. Its oft-told beauty, too, is indeed remarkable. A few of these
fleet racers were captured, on the voyage, but were found tough and rank; notwithstanding some
eulogy on them by other epicures, we threw the mess away. Those hooked by my crew were perhaps
the tyrrhena pirates "turned into dolphins" in the days of yore.

On the 19th day from Pernambuco, early in the morning, we made Barbadoes away in the West.
First, the blue, fertile hills, then green fields came into view, studded with many white buildings
between sentries of giant wind-mills as old nearly as the hills. Barbadoes is the most pleasant
island in the Antilles; to sail round its green fringe of coral sea is simply charming. We
stood in to the coast, well to windward, sailing close in with the breakers so as to take in
a view of the whole delightful panorama as we sailed along. By noon we rounded the south point
of the island and shot into Carlysle Bay, completing the run from Pernambuco exactly in nineteen
days. This was considerably more than an hundred miles a day. The true distance being augmented
by the circuitous route we adopted made it 2,150 miles.

FOOTNOTES:

[5] We had the pleasure of meeting this gentleman again on the voyage at Barbadoes, again at
New London, and finally with delight we heard him lecture on his travels, at Newport, and saw
there produced on the wall the very picture of the Liberdade taken by the doctor on the great
ocean.

[6]

     There's a sweet little cherub that sits up aloft,
     To look out for a berth for poor Jack.--Dibdin's Poems.

Many old friends and acquaintances came down to see us upon our arrival at Barbadoes, all curious
to inspect the strange craft. While there our old friend, the Palmer, that we left at Bahia,
came in to refit, having broken a mast "trying to beat us," so Garfield would have it. For
all that we had beaten her by four days. Who then shall say that we anchored nights or spent
much time hugging the shore? The Condor was also at Barbadoes in charge of an old friend, accompanied
by a pleasant helpmeet and companion who had shared the perils of shipwreck with her husband
the year before in a hurricane among the islands.

Meeting so many of this class of old friends of vast and varied experiences gave contentment
to our visit, and we concluded to remain over at this port till the hurricane season should
pass. Our old friend, the Finance, too, came in, remaining but a few hours. However, she hurried
away with her mails, homeward bound.

The pleasant days at Barbadoes with its enchantment flew lightly by; and on the 7th of October
we sailed, giving the hurricane season the benefit of eight days. The season is considered
over on the 15th of that month.

Passing thence through the Antilles into the Caribbean Sea, a new period of our voyage was
begun. Fair breezes filled the sails of the Liberdade as we glided along over tranquil seas,
scanning eagerly the islands as they came into view, dwelling on each, in our thoughts, as
hallowed ground of the illustrious discoverers--the same now as seen by them! The birds, too,
of "rare plumage," were there, flying from island to island, the same as seen by the discoverers;
and the sea with fishes teemed, of every gorgeous hue, lending enchantment to the picture,
not less beautiful than the splendour on the land and in the air to thrill the voyager now,
the same as then; we ourselves had only to look to see them.

Whether it was birds with fins, or fishes with wings, or neither of these that the old voyagers
saw, they discovered yet enough to make them wonder and rejoice.

"Mountains of sugar, and rivers of rum and flying-fish, was what I saw, mother," said the son
on his return from a voyage to these islands. "John," said the enraptured mother, "you must
be mistaken about the fish; now don't lie to me, John. Mountains of sugar, no doubt you saw,
and even rivers of rum, my boy, but flying-fish could never be."

And yet the fish were there.

Among the islands of great interest which came in view, stretching along the Caribbean Sea,
was that of Santa Cruz, the island famous for its brave, resolute women of days gone by, who,
while their husbands were away, successfully defended home and happiness against Christian
invaders, and for that reason were called fierce savages. I would fain have brought away some
of the earth of the island in memory of those brave women. Small as our ship was, we could
have afforded room in it for a memento thus consecrated; but the trades hauling somewhat to
the northward so headed us off that we had to forgo the pleasure of landing on its shores.

Pushing forward thence, we reached Porto Rico, the nearest land in our course from the Island
of Brave Women, standing well in with the southeast capes. Sailing thence along the whole extent
of the south coast, in waters as smooth as any mill pond, and past island scenery worth the
perils of ten voyages to see, we landed, on the 12th of October, at Mayaguez in the west of
the island, and there shook the kinks out of our bones by pleasant walks in tropic shades.

Time, five days from Barbadoes; distance 570 miles.

This was to be our last run among the trees in the West Indies, and we made the most of it.
"Such a port for mariners I'll never see again!" The port officials, kind and polite, extended
all becoming courtesies to the quaint "barco piquina."

The American Consul, Mr. Christie, Danish Consul, Mr. Falby, and the good French Consul, vied
in making our visit a pleasant one.

Photographers at Mayaguez desiring a picture of the canoe with the crew on deck at a time when
we felt inclined to rest in the shade on shore, put a negro on board to take the place of captain.
The photographs taken then found their way to Paris and Madrid journals where, along with some
flattering accounts, they were published, upon which it was remarked that the captain was a
fine-looking fellow, but "awfully tanned!" The moke was rigged all ataunto for the occasion,
and made a picture indicative of great physical strength, one not to be ashamed of, but he
would have looked more like me, I must say, if they had turned him back to.

We enjoyed long carriage drives over rich estates at Mayaguez. We saw with pain, however, that
the atmosphere of the soldier hung over all, pervading the whole air like a pestilence.

Musketed and sabred and uniformed in their bed-ticking suits; hated by the residents and despised
by themselves, they doggedly marched, counter-marched and wheeled, knowing that they are loathsome
in the island, and that their days in the New World are numbered. The sons of the colonies
are too civil and Christianlike to be ruled always by sword and gun.

On the 15th of October, after three days' rest, we took in, as usual before sailing from ports,
sufficient fresh supplies to carry us to the port steered for next, then set sail from pleasant
Mayaguez, and bore away for the old Bahama Channel, passing east of Hayti, thence along the
north coast to the west extremity of the island, from which we took departure for the head-lands
of Cuba, and followed that coast as far as Cardinas, where we took a final departure from the
islands, regretting that we could not sail around them all.

The region on the north side of Cuba is often visited by gales of great violence, making this
the lee shore; a weather eye was therefore kept lifting, especially in the direction of their
source, which is from north to nor'west. However, storms prevailed from other quarters, mostly
from the east, bringing heavy squalls of wind, rain and thunder every afternoon, such as once
heard will never be forgotten. Peal on peal of nature's artillery for a few hours, accompanied
by vivid lightning, was on the cards for each day, then all would be serene again.

The nights following these severe storms were always bright and pleasant, and the heavens would
be studded with constellations of familiar, guiding stars.

My crew had now no wish to bear up for port short of one on our own coast, but, impatient to
see the North Star appear higher in the heavens, strung every nerve and trimmed every sail
to hasten on.

Nassau, the place to which letters had been directed to us, we forbore to visit. This departure
from a programme which was made at the beginning was the only change that we made in the "charter
party" throughout the voyage. There was no haphazard sailing on this voyage. Daily observations
for determining latitude and longitude were invariably made unless the sun was obscured. The
result of these astronomical observations were more reliable than one might suppose, from their
being taken on a tittlish canoe. After a few days' practising, a very fair off-hand contact
could be made, when the canoe rose on the crest of a wave, where manifestly would be found
the best result. The observer's station was simply on the top of the cabin, where astride,
like riding horseback, Victor and I took the "sights," and indeed became expert "snap observers"
before the voyage ended.

One night in the Bahama Channel, while booming along toward the Banks to the nor'west of us
before stiff trades, I was called in the first watch by Victor, to come up quickly, for signs
of the dread "norther" were in the sky. Our trusty barometer had been low, but was now on the
cheerful side of change. This phenomenon disturbed me somewhat, till the discovery was made,
as we came nearer, that it was but the reflection of the white banks on the sky that we saw,
and no cause at all for alarm.

Soon after this phenomenon the faint glimmer of Lobos Light was descried flickering on the
horizon, two points on the weather bow. I changed the course three points to windward, having
determined to touch at the small Cay where the lighthouse stands; one point being allowed for
leeway, which I found was not too much.

Three hours later we fetched in under the lee of the reef, or Cay, as it is commonly called,
and came to in one and a half fathoms of water in good shelter.

We beheld then overhead in wonderful beauty what had awed us from the distance in the early
night--a chart of the illuminating banks marked visibly on the heavens.

We furled sails and, setting a light in the rigging, turned in; for it lacked three hours yet
of daylight. And what an interesting experience ours had been in the one short night! By the
break of day my crew were again astir, preparing to land and fill water at a good landing which
we now perceived farther around the point to leeward, where the surf was moderate.

On the Cay is stored some hundred thousand gallons of rain water in cisterns at the base of
the iron tower which carries the light; one that we saw from the canoe at a distance of fourteen
miles.

The keeper of the light, a hardy native of Nassau, when he discovered the new arrival at his
"island," hoisted the British Board of Trade flag on a pole in the centre of this, his little
world, then he came forward to speak us, thinking at first, he said, that we were shipwrecked
sailors, which indeed we were, but not in distress, as he had supposed when hoisting the flag,
which signified assistance for distressed seamen. On learning our story, however, he regarded
us with grave suspicions, and refused water to Victor, who had already landed with buckets,
telling him that the captain would have to bring his papers ashore and report. The mate's report
would not be taken. Thus in a moment was transformed the friend in need to governor of an island.
This amused me greatly, and I sent back word to my veritable Sancho Panza that in my many voyages
to islands my mate had attended to the customs reports; at which his Excellency chafed considerably,
giving the gunnels of his trousers a fitful tug up now and then as he paced the beach, waiting
my compliance with the rules of the island. The governor, I perceived, was suspicious of smugglers
and wreckers, apparently understanding their ways, if, indeed, even he were not a reformed
pirate himself.

However, to humour the punctiliousness of his Excellency, now that he was governor of an island,
I placed my papers in my hat, and, leaping into the surf, waded ashore, where I was received
as by a monarch.

The document I presented was the original Passe Especial, the one with the big seal on it,
written in Portuguese; had it been in Choctàw the governor would have read it with the same
facility that he did this, which he stared at knowingly and said, "all right, take all the
water you want; it is free."

I lodged a careful report of the voyage with the governor and explained to his Excellency the
whereabouts of the "Island of Rio," as his grace persistently called Rio de Janeiro, whence
dated my papers.

Conversing on the subject of islands, which was all the world to him, the governor viewed with
suspicion the absence of a word in my documents, referring even to an islet; this, in his mind,
was a reprehensible omission; for surely New York, to which the papers referred, was built
on an island. Upon this I offered to swear to the truth of my clearance, "as far as known to
me," after the manner of cheap custom-house swearing with which shipmasters, in some parts
of the world, are made familiar. "Not on the island!" quickly exclaimed the governor, "'for
thou shalt not disglorify God's name,' is written in the Bible."

I assured the governor of my appreciation of his pious sentiment of not over-swearing,--a laudable
plan that even the Chinese adopt as a policy, and one that I would speak of on my return home,
to the end that we all emulate the laws of the island; whereupon the governor, greatly pleased,
urged me to take some more water, minding me again that it was free.

In a very few minutes I got all the water I wished for; also some aurora shells from the governor's
lady, who had arisen with the sun to grace the day and of all things most appropriate held
in her generous lap beautiful aurora shells for which--to spoil the poem--I bartered cocoa-nuts
and rusty gnarly yams.

The lady was on a visit only to her lord and master, the monarch of all he surveyed. Beside
this was their three children also on a visit, from Nassau, and two assistant keepers of the
light which made up the total of this little world in the ocean.

It was the smallest kingdom I had ever visited, peopled by happy human beings and the most
isolated by far.

The few blades of grass which had struggled into existence, not enough to support a goat, was
all there was to look at on the island except the lighthouse, and the sand and themselves.

Some small buildings and a flagstaff had once adorned the place, but together with a coop of
chickens, the only stock of the islanders--except a dog--had been swept away by a hurricane
which had passed over the island a short time before. The water for which we had called being
now in the canoe, and my people on board waiting for me, I bade the worthy governor good-bye,
and, saluting his charming island queen in a seaman-like manner, hastened back to my own little
world; and bore away once more for the north. Sailing thence over the Great Bahama Banks, in
a crystal sea, we observed on the white marl bottom many curious living things, among them
the conch in its house of exquisite tints and polished surface, the star-fish with radiated
dome of curious construction, and many more denizens of the place, the names of which I could
not tell, resting on the soft white bed under the sea.

"They who go down to the sea in ships, they see the wonders of the Lord," I am reminded by
a friend who writes me, on receipt of some of these curious things which I secured on the voyage,
adding: "For all these curious and beautiful things are His handiwork. Who can look at such
things without the heart being lifted up in adoration?"

For words like these what sailor is there who would not search the caves of the ocean? Words
too, from a lady.

Two days of brisk sailing over the white Bahama Banks brought us to Bimini. Thence a mere push
would send us to the coast of our own native America. The wind in the meantime hauling from
regular nor'east trade to the sou'west, as we came up to Bimini, promising a smooth passage
across, we launched out at once on the great Gulf Stream, and were swept along by its restless
motion, making on the first day, before the wind and current, two hundred and twenty miles.
This was great getting along for a small canoe. Going at the same high rate of speed on the
second night in the stream, the canoe struck a spar and went over it with a bound. Her keel
was shattered by the shock, but finally shaking the crippled timber clear of herself she came
on quite well without it. No other damage was done to our craft, although at times her very
ribs were threatened before clearing this lively ocean river. In the middle of the current,
where the seas were yet mountainous but regular, we went along with a wide, swinging motion
and fared well enough; but on nearing the edge of the stream a confused sea was met with, standing
all on end, in every which way, beyond a sailor's comprehension. The motion of the Liberdade
was then far from poetical or pleasant. The wind, in the meantime, had chopped round to the
nor'east, dead ahead; being thus against the current, a higher and more confused sea than ever
was heaped up, giving us some uneasiness. We had, indeed, several unwelcome visitors come tumbling
aboard of our craft, one of which furiously crashing down on her made all of her timbers bend
and creak. However, I could partially remedy this danger by changing the course.

"Seas like that can't break this boat," said our young boatswain; "she's built strong." It
was well to find among the crew this feeling of assurance in the gallant little vessel. I,
too, was confident in her seaworthiness. Nevertheless, I shortened sail and brought her to
the wind, watching the lulls and easing her over the combers, as well as I could. But wrathful
Neptune was not to let us so easily off, for the next moment a sea swept clean over the helmsman,
wetting him through to the skin and, most unkind cut of all, it put out our fire, and capsized
the hash and stove into the bottom of the canoe. This left us with but a damper for breakfast!
Matters mended, however, as the day advanced, and for supper we had a grand and glorious feast.
Early in the afternoon we made the land and got into smooth water. This of itself was a feast,
to our minds.

The land we now saw lying before us was hills of America, which we had sailed many thousands
of miles to see. Drawing in with the coast, we made out, first the broad, rich forests, then
open fields and villages, with many signs of comfort on every hand. We found it was the land
about Bull's Bay on the coast of South Carolina, and night coming on, we could plainly see
Cape Roman Light to the north of us. The wind falling light as we drew in with the coast, and
finding a current against us, we anchored, about two miles from the shore, in four fathoms
of water. It was now 8 p.m., October 28, 1888, thirteen days from Mayaguez, twenty-one days
from Barbadoes, etc.

The following was the actual time at sea and distances in nautical miles from point to point
on the courses steered, approximately:

                           Days.    Distance.

From Paranagua to Santos         1        150
 "   Santos to Rio de Janeiro
         (towed by Finance)    ¾        200
 "   Rio to Cape Frio            2         70
 "   Cape Frio to Carvellas      4        370
 "   Carvellas to Saint Paulo    3        270
 "   Saint Paulo to Bahia        ½         40
 "   Bahia to Pernambuco         5        390
 "   Pernambuco to Barbadoes    19      2,150
 "   Barbadoes to Mayaguez       5        570
 "   Mayaguez to Cape Roman     13      1,300
                                ---     -----
                                53¼     5,510

Computing all the distances of the ins and outs that we made would considerably augment the
sum. To say, therefore, that the Liberdade averaged a hundred and three miles a day for fifty-three
days would be considerably inside the truth.

This was the voyage made in the boat which cost less than a hundred dollars outside of our
own labour of building. Journals the world over have spoken not unkindly of the feat; encomiums
in seven languages reached us through the newspapers while we lay moored in Washington. Should
the same good fortune that followed the Liberdade attend this little literary craft, when finished,
it would go safe into many lands. Without looking, however, to this mark of good fortune, the
journal of the voyage has been as carefully constructed as was the Liberdade, and I trust,
as conscientiously, by a hand, alas! that has grasped the sextant more often than the plane
or pen, and for the love of doing. This apology might have been more appropriately made in
the beginning of the journal, maybe, but it comes to me now, and like many other things done,
right or wrong, but done on the impulse of the moment, I put it down.

No one will be more surprised at the complete success of the voyage and the speedy progress
made than were we ourselves who made it.

A factor of the voyage, one that helped us forward greatly, and which is worthy of special
mention, was the ocean current spoken of as we came along in its friendly sway.

Many are the theories among fresh-water philosophists respecting these currents, but in practical
sailing, where the subject is met with in its tangible form, one cause only is recognized;
namely, the action of the wind on the surface of the water, pushing the waves along. Out on
the broad ocean the effect at first is hardly perceptible, but the constant trades, sending
countless millions of waves in one direction, cause at last a mighty moving power, which the
mariner meets sometimes as an enemy to retard and delay, sometimes as a friend, as in our case,
to help him on his way. These are views from a practical experience with no theory to prove.

