Now for the story. Many years ago, soon after the landing of the first Pilgrim Fathers in New
England, there was a man by the name of John Eliot, who came to this new and unsettled country
of America. He was a devoted Christian, an earnest, patient, persistent missionary. He lived
for sixty years in Massachusetts, and most of those years were spent among the redskins who
inhabited that section. He loved them, worked with them, learned their language, reduced it
to writing, then translated for them the Scriptures. He was called, and he is still known by
the name, "Apostle to the Indians." The word at the head of the page shows what labors he entered
into. All this was made possible through putting into practice his own motto, "Prayer and pains,
through faith in Christ, will do anything."

What good John Eliot did for the Indians some one must have done for the human race. Who invented
the first alphabet? Who conceived the idea of letters? Who planned out the putting of certain
letters together to form a word, then placing certain words in a string to form a sentence,
that sentence conveying an idea? Who did all this? We do not know. The blessed work has gone
on, until the knowledge of letters is so taken for granted that we have a saying, "as plain
as ABC."

The Bible has almost kept pace with language. There are few languages to-day into which the
Word has not been translated. We shall not rest until every child of every tongue is able to
read God's message of love and salvation in the language in which he was born.

MEMORY HYMN [200]

    "O word of God incarnate."

WHAT THE TREES SAID TO ME

Across the street from my home is a large and beautiful park. It has inviting, winding paths,
great quantities of flowers and many varieties of trees. Early one summer day, before most
people were up, I strolled through the park. I thought I was all alone, but suddenly I heard
a voice, "Stand erect. Do not walk with stooping shoulders. Head up, shoulders back!" Now I
confess I was walking, and thinking as I walked, with shoulders bent and head forward. At once
I straightened up and looked about to see who was speaking. It was the voice of a pine tree,
growing hard by the path, tall and straight as a plumb line. "Thank you," I said to the pine.

No sooner had I left the pine, and was again deep in thought, when I heard another voice. "Be
courteous, you can never accomplish anything by scolding, insulting or driving people. Be fair
and just. Be like Christ, a Christian gentleman." Now who in the world is speaking to me? I
looked everywhere and there was not the sign of a person in all the park. "Here I am," the
voice said. I looked and there, right before me, was a graceful elm tree, smiling and courteously
bowing low to me. "I shall try and heed your word," I said.

Going on my way I was no longer absorbed in thought, for I knew that other trees would have
something to say. Sure enough, "Be steadfast," I heard. What tree could that be? I should have
known at once. The maple, of course.

Now the white birch beckons. How its face shines in the light of the early morning! But dark
or light I can distinguish it from all its fellows. Always white of face and clean of life.
So I hear it say, "Be clean."

Turning my steps homeward I said to the kindly trees, "Good-by, and thank you. I shall never
forget this morning's walk."

MEMORY HYMN [745]

    "Into the woods my Master went."

BANKS

Here is a bank. I have been reading lately about banks. You know that in Jesus' day they did
not have banks such as we have. People took their treasures and jewels and hid them in a vessel,
or dug a hole in the earth and covered their valuable possessions with dirt. But now one of
the most prominent institutions of any community is the bank.

What does this bank stand for? In the first place it means Strength. It is made of very heavy,
hard material. There is money in this bank. It does not belong to me, it is the property of
our Beginners' Department. Each Sunday they put their birthday money in here, then at the end
of the year they open it and the contents is given to our Sunday School Missionary Society.
That the money may be kept safe and sound to the end of the year the bank is made very strong.

In the second place I notice that there is a single opening and that the opening is made very
small. It is meant for small coins, I could not possibly get a one dollar piece into this opening.
No, it is meant for dimes, nickels and pennies. That is, it stands for Thrift. Each little
child brings his or her amount, small in itself, but when they are all together there is a
considerable sum.

Again, I see that this bank is made in the form of a church. It is really quite a beautiful
building. Here is the steeple, here the steps and the wide entrance doors, and the windows
with genuine cathedral glass. I think it is splendid to have a bank look like a church, for
after all a church is a sort of bank.

MEMORY VERSE, Matthew 6: 21

    "For where your treasure is there will your heart be also."

MEMORY HYMN [208]

    "I love thy kingdom, Lord."

WORK

This morning I want to talk to you about work. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy."
We are sorry for girls and boys who are compelled to work, who have little or no time for play.
Now that is one side. How about the other side? All play and no work makes Jack--what? There
are many words we can use here. I have thought about this a long time and I have decided that
the best word to put in here is useless. All play and no work makes Jack a useless boy, and
of all creatures in the world who have no place in the scheme of things it is one who is useless.

Now the men who are useful, we shall find, are the men who, as boys, worked as well as played.
A few days ago I sat at a public dinner next to one of the best-known men in this city, and
a useful man he is. We were talking about some of the things boys could busy themselves with
and earn a little money. I said, "I carried papers when I was a boy." He replied, "I carried
papers on the streets of New York City when I was a boy." I do not doubt that if we could have
gone to all the men who sat at that dinner each of the one hundred and fifty would have answered,
"Yes, I worked when I was a boy."

I have here an illustration of work. Here are four nuts, a brazil nut, an almond, a walnut
and a pecan. Each morning as you go to school you pass through the park. There in the park
the squirrels are always to be seen, and to you they seem to be ever at play. There are days,
warm spring days, lovely autumn days, when you do not like to go to school, and I hear you
say, "I wish I could be like these squirrels, playing around all day long." But the squirrels
do not play around all day long. They are at work, gathering nuts and storing them away for
winter use. If I should give these nuts to the squirrels they would have to work to open them.
All that is good in life comes through work. God wants us to work as well as play, and play
as well as work.

MEMORY VERSE, Matthew 21: 18

"Son, go work to-day in my vineyard."

MEMORY HYMN [422]

    "Work, for the night is coming."

THE BIG STORE

Many of the girls and boys who read this little book live in or near one of the great cities
where they have huge department stores. I love to visit a big store. I have spent hours, more
likely days, if I should count up all the time, in Wanamaker's in New York and Philadelphia,
Marshall Field's in Chicago, Hengerer's in Buffalo, and Eaton's in Toronto. Any season of the
year, and almost any hour of the day, these stores are thronged with people, for people like
to go to the big store.

Now I am thinking of another big store, a truly big store, the great big store of Life. We
have to visit at this store whether we want to or not. It is not a matter of choice but of
necessity. Every morning you visit the big store of Life. Every evening you return home with
what you have bought.

Not only must you visit this store but you must also buy. When you visit Wanamaker's you do
not have to buy unless you choose. In the big store of Life, however, you have no choice in
the matter, you must buy. What must you buy? Well, you may buy anything you choose. This is
the beautiful thing about the big store of Life--while we are compelled to buy we are permitted
to choose. We must also pay.

"Good morning, John, what would you like to buy this morning."

"I think I'll buy a good geography lesson."

"All right, you can buy that, but you must pay the price."

"What is the price?"

"Study, earnest study. Never leave the preparation until the last minute or trust to luck."

Yes, it is true, right on through every department in the big store of Life, you can buy whatsoever
you choose, but you must pay the price.

MEMORY HYMN [332]

    "Thou my everlasting portion."

BREAD

I have here a loaf of bread. This is good-looking bread, is it not? I can almost hear you say,
"Please pass the bread." That is, I hope you say that. I hope you do not say, "Gimme the bread."

Now every girl and boy here knows what it is to be hungry, I'm sure of that. And when one is
real hungry there is nothing that tastes as good as bread. Of course there should be some butter,
or jam, or peanut butter spread over the top--my, it makes the mouth water, doesn't it!

We speak of bread as the staff of life because we could not be strong in body if we did not
have bread. We love ice cream and cake, meat and potatoes, and many other things, but our meal
is not properly balanced unless there is a plate of bread on the table.

Jesus taught us to pray, "Give us this day our daily bread." I think this has a twofold meaning.
It refers to our physical hunger and our spiritual needs. All bread comes from the Father above,
our Father of love. Do you remember those beautiful lines,

    "Back of the loaf is the snowy flour,
    And back of the flour, the mill;
    And back of the mill, the seed, and the sun, and the shower,
      And the Father's will."

Jesus once spoke of himself as the Bread sent down from above. Our Father gives us daily bread
for our physical needs, and he has also sent us Christ for our spiritual strength. My dear
young people, take him as your Saviour.

MEMORY VERSE, John 6: 51

    "I am the living bread which came down from heaven."

MEMORY HYMN [325]

    "Break thou the bread of life."

GOD'S MEASURE

Here I have some measures. This is a rule, we call it a folding foot rule. Here is a square.
And here is a tape measure. There are other measures, quarts and pecks and bushels. Then there
are liquid measures, quarts and gallons and barrels. There are also measures of weight, ounces,
pounds and tons. Now these different measures are the same all over the United States. A pound
of butter in New York is the same as a pound of butter in California. There are other countries
that do not have measures like ours. France, for example, has the metric system. Should you
go into a dry goods store in Paris you would not ask for a yard of cloth, but for a meter.

God's measures are the same. God has a measure for girls and boys, and that measure is the
same in Ohio, Mexico, England or Spain. If it is wrong to steal in Germany, it is wrong to
steal in Brazil. If it was wrong to commit murder in the first century, it is wrong to take
life in this century. The Ten Commandments are some of God's measures for us.

John, come up here, I want to measure you. Stand there, that's right. I have the mark, now
let us see how tall you are. Four feet, three and one-half inches. That is fine. You are a
big boy, aren't you? I wish too that I could measure you according to God's measure. But I
cannot do that. You must do that yourself. How tall are you as you look at yourself in the
light of the Saviour's life? According to his measure I pray that you may be tall and strong.

MEMORY HYMN [128]

    "We may not climb the heavenly steeps."

SLEEP

I hope you had a good sleep last night. I hope you sleep well every night. God's best gift
to his children is sleep. You think there are some better gifts, do you? Name them. Ah, I thought
you were mistaken. The more you think about it the more you will agree with me that sleep,
the Father's loving provision for tired people, is a most blessed gift.

Now God gives sleep not only to girls and boys but to all of his creatures. Do you know how
some of those creatures sleep? I will tell you. Elephants and horses commonly sleep standing
up. How would you like to hear your mother say to you, "Robert, it's time to go to bed, stand
in the corner there and sleep." Most birds sleep with the head turned toward the tail and the
beak poked in under the feathers. Storks, gulls and all other long-legged birds sleep standing
on one leg. It would be more difficult to sleep that way than just standing in the corner,
wouldn't it? The fox and the wolf sleep with the tip of the nose and the soles of the feet
close together, and the big, bushy tail covering all to keep them warm. Owls sleep in the daytime.
They have eyelids, and over the eyelids, curtains. These curtains are drawn across the eyes,
sideways, and keep out the strong light of the day. Hares, snakes and fish sleep with their
eyes open.

Why does God give us sleep? Is it for the pleasure of sleeping? No. He gives us sleep that
our bodies and minds may be refreshed. The strength we have expended during the day is repaid
us in the sleep of the night. Be grateful to your heavenly Father when to-night you kneel to pray:

"Now I lay me down to sleep."

MEMORY VERSE, Psalm 127: 2
    "So he giveth his beloved sleep."

MEMORY HYMN [541]

    "Of all the thoughts of God."

ON TIME

I once lived in a town of some five thousand population. In the center of the town was a public
square, and at the most prominent corner of the square was a jeweler's store. In the window
of the store was a clock which regulated the coming and going of nearly all the inhabitants.
You see the children on their way to school had to pass this store, and they always glanced
in the window to see if they were on time. People going away had to pass this store to get
to the depot; they too looked at the jeweler's clock to see if they had plenty of time to make
their train. The men who worked in the main factory of the town went by this corner; each man
as he passed would pull out his watch and set it by the jeweler's clock.

Now one morning, for some reason or other, the clock was fifteen minutes slow. Children, hurrying
to school, looked in at the window, and, seeing how much time they had they loitered and were
late. Men and women, going to the train or work, glanced at the clock, as was their custom,
and, finding that they did not have to hurry some missed their train, while others were behind
time at work.

We are all human clocks. We set the time for others. Your example, girls and boys, has much
to do with the way other young people, your companions, act. If you, Mary, fail to get your
lessons, some of your friends are going to say, "Mary doesn't study much and I'm not going
to either." Robert, if you indulge in some bad habit your chum is going to say, "Robert does
this and I guess I can too." Is your life clock running true? Are you on time?

MEMORY HYMN [420]

    "True-hearted, whole-hearted."

DOORS

This morning, after you were awake, you passed through your bedroom door. Then you went through
the bathroom door. Later you entered, through a door, the dining room. After a time, with your
father and mother, you left the house through the outside door. You walked down the street
and here you are in church, having entered through yonder door. Every day you are passing through
various doors. What wonderful things doors are! I wonder who invented doors. What would we
do without doors?

There are doors to houses and there are doors to life. Let me tell you about them. A door is
made of wood. What beautiful wood is in these church doors! The doors of life are made of our
will. By the exercise of our will we open and close whatsoever doors of life we choose.

The doors of our houses swing on hinges. Heavy doors seem as light as a feather because they
are so delicately hung upon hinges. The hinges of the doors of life are made not of brass or
iron, but of love.

When, in a little while, you leave this church you will take hold of a knob and pull open the
door. The doors of life have knobs. Those knobs are called courtesy. You can open well nigh
any door you choose if only you will use the knob courtesy.

What about the lock? Yes, doors have locks. So also have the doors of life. Can you guess what
locks the door of life? It is faith. If you have faith, faith in God, faith in the Saviour,
faith in things that are true and pure, you need never fear that your house of life will be
broken into by burglars. You are secure if you have the lock of faith. Now here is a strange
paradox, namely--you lock your door only by opening it. Open your door to the Master.

MEMORY HYMN [282]

    "O Jesus, thou art standing."

CHEAPEST AND BEST

A business man would not consider this subject a very good advertisement. He believes that
the best things are never cheapest. There are a few instances however in which that is not
the case.

First, the air we breathe. It does not cost us anything, it isn't metered out to us, so we
have a saying, "as free as air." You go down to the drug store and buy a bottle of perfume.
A good perfume will cost not less than a dollar a bottle. The air we breathe is infinitely
purer and better than the costliest perfume.

Second, the water we drink. Do you like ice cream soda? I am sure you do. If you do not you
are not a normal girl or boy. How much do you have to pay for a good ice cream soda? That depends;
some places it is ten cents and some fifteen cents. You think you might like to have ice cream
soda every meal, but you would soon tire of it. The water you drink is necessary, and it costs
you nothing.

Third, a book, that is this book, the Bible. If you wish to buy an up-to-date book of fiction
it will cost you anywhere from $1.00 to $3.00. But here is a book, the most popular, the most
wonderful book that was ever written. You can buy a Bible for a few pennies, and if you do
not have the pennies there is a great Bible Society that will give you a copy, that none may
be without the Word of Life.

Finally, the things that are cheapest and best are the things of the soul, the spiritual ministries
and influences of life. They are worship, communion, faith, hope, prayer and love. No one stands
at yonder door and demands a dollar of you as you enter. The seats in this church are free
to rich and poor, aged and young. These free seats typify the salvation that is here proclaimed.

MEMORY HYMN [304]

    "I heard the voice of Jesus."

IN THE DARK

I have here what are commonly known as Chinese lilies. Two weeks ago they were only two or
three inches high. Now they are between two and three feet. How rapidly they have grown! I
How can we account for it? I can give one reason. It is because they had adequate preparation.
The bulbs from which these lilies grew were kept in the dark for ten days. There, in the dark,
they stored up strength and energy for the work that was before them.

Many years of our Saviour's life were spent in obscurity. They were years when, as far as the
world is concerned, he was in the dark, preparing for the great work of his public ministry.
My dear young people, do not be fretful over the days and years you have to go to school. They
are not simply days of waiting, they are days of preparation.

Again, these lilies come from dark and humble surroundings. Here is a very plain dish. In the
dish are a few ordinary stones; picked up in our yard. Water is poured upon the stones. Among
these stones the lily bulbs take root. Girls and boys, it does not matter a great deal what
sort of a home you have, if only it is a good home. John Wesley's youth was hid away in a poor
Methodist parsonage. Abraham Lincoln was born and grew up in the dark and humble surroundings
of a log cabin. Our Saviour himself was born in a manger, and his boyhood home was far from
being a palace. Make the best of what you have and all will be well. God will take care of
you and bring you out of the darkness.

How fragrant these lilies are! Faith, hope, love, patience, strength and truth, these fragrant
qualities of life often grow best in the dark. May our good Father make your life fragrant
is my prayer.

MEMORY HYMN [460]

    "Lead, kindly light."

THE STILL SMALL VOICE

What is the loudest noise you ever heard? Did you ever hear an immense cannon fired? Of course
you have heard thunder. The loudest, most terrifying noise I ever heard was a boiler explosion.
The town heating plant was only three doors from my home. The whole plant blew up one prayer
meeting evening. The church building was plunged into darkness, the walls shook, windows were
broken on every side. In terror people got down on their knees and crept toward the door. That
was the loudest noise I ever heard.

Now I have here a hammer. I will drop it to the floor. Listen. Is the noise very loud? Here
I have a heavy railroad spike. Hear the noise this makes as it is dropped. And now I shall
drop this large nail. The noise that made is not nearly as loud as the noise occasioned by
the falling hammer. Here is a small nail. You will have to listen very carefully if you hear
the sound of the nail as it strikes the carpet. Have you good ears? Let us test them. Here
is an ordinary pin. If you keep very quiet you will be able to hear the falling of this tiny
pin. Do not move in your seat. Every one, attention! Listen. Did you hear it? Yes, most of you did.

That pin did not make much noise. No sound could be more subdued than a dropping pin. Ah, but
there is a sound that is infinitely more quiet. At the same time it is louder than the roll
of thunder, or the firing of a huge cannon, or the explosion of a great boiler. Some call it
"conscience." I like to think of it as a voice. It is the still, small voice within. When you
go to do wrong this voice speaks to you. Hear the voice, and give good heed.

MEMORY VERSE, I Kings 19: 12

    "And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the
    fire: and after the fire a still small voice."

MEMORY HYMN [320]

    "I want a principle within."

THANKSGIVING

What does Thanksgiving mean to you? I hear one boy say, "It means a big dinner." I think we
all agree with him. Who does not welcome and enjoy a good dinner! I hear Mary say, "Thanksgiving
means a day off from school." I guess you are right too. School is not such a charming place
that girls and boys are unwilling to have an occasional holiday.

