Inside was a lithographed circular, headed "Confidential" and bearing the Paris address of
a firm of private detectives who undertook, in conditions of attested and inviolable discretion,
to investigate "delicate" situations, look up doubtful antecedents, and furnish reliable evidence
of misconduct--all on the most reasonable terms.

For a long time Ralph sat and stared at this document; then he began to laugh and tossed it
into the scrap-basket. After that, with a groan, he dropped his head against the edge of his
writing table.

XXII

When he woke, the first thing he remembered was the fact of having cried.

He could not think how he had come to be such a fool. He hoped to heaven no one had seen him.
He supposed he must have been worrying about the unfinished piece of work at the office: where
was it, by the way, he wondered? Why--where he had left it the day before, of course! What
a ridiculous thing to worry about--but it seemed to follow him about like a dog...

He said to himself that he must get up presently and go down to the office. Presently--when
he could open his eyes. Just now there was a dead weight on them; he tried one after another
in vain. The effort set him weakly trembling, and he wanted to cry again. Nonsense! He must
get out of bed.

He stretched his arms out, trying to reach something to pull himself up by; but everything
slipped away and evaded him. It was like trying to catch at bright short waves. Then suddenly
his fingers clasped themselves about something firm and warm. A hand: a hand that gave back
his pressure! The relief was inexpressible. He lay still and let the hand hold him, while mentally
he went through the motions of getting up and beginning to dress. So indistinct were the boundaries
between thought and action that he really felt himself moving about the room, in a queer disembodied
way, as one treads the air in sleep. Then he felt the bedclothes over him and the pillows under
his head.

"I MUST get up," he said, and pulled at the hand.

It pressed him down again: down into a dim deep pool of sleep. He lay there for a long time,
in a silent blackness far below light and sound; then he gradually floated to the surface with
the buoyancy of a dead body. But his body had never been more alive. Jagged strokes of pain
tore through it, hands dragged at it with nails that bit like teeth. They wound thongs about
him, bound him, tied weights to him, tried to pull him down with them; but still he floated,
floated, danced on the fiery waves of pain, with barbed light pouring down on him from an arrowy
sky.

Charmed intervals of rest, blue sailings on melodious seas, alternated with the anguish. He
became a leaf on the air, a feather on a current, a straw on the tide, the spray of the wave
spinning itself to sunshine as the wave toppled over into gulfs of blue...

He woke on a stony beach, his legs and arms still lashed to his sides and the thongs cutting
into him; but the fierce sky was hidden, and hidden by his own languid lids. He felt the ecstasy
of decreasing pain, and courage came to him to open his eyes and look about him...

The beach was his own bed; the tempered light lay on familiar things, and some one was moving
about in a shadowy way between bed and window. He was thirsty and some one gave him a drink.
His pillow burned, and some one turned the cool side out. His brain was clear enough now for
him to understand that he was ill, and to want to talk about it; but his tongue hung in his
throat like a clapper in a bell. He must wait till the rope was pulled...

So time and life stole back on him, and his thoughts laboured weakly with dim fears. Slowly
he cleared a way through them, adjusted himself to his strange state, and found out that he
was in his own room, in his grandfather's house, that alternating with the white-capped faces
about him were those of his mother and sister, and that in a few days--if he took his beef-tea
and didn't fret--Paul would be brought up from Long Island, whither, on account of the great
heat, he had been carried off by Clare Van Degen.

No one named Undine to him, and he did not speak of her. But one day, as he lay in bed in the
summer twilight, he had a vision of a moment, a long way behind him--at the beginning of his
illness, it must have been--when he had called out for her in his anguish, and some one had
said: "She's coming: she'll be here next week."

Could it be that next week was not yet here? He supposed that illness robbed one of all sense
of time, and he lay still, as if in ambush, watching his scattered memories come out one by
one and join themselves together. If he watched long enough he was sure he should recognize
one that fitted into his picture of the day when he had asked for Undine. And at length a face
came out of the twilight: a freckled face, benevolently bent over him under a starched cap.
He had not seen the face for a long time, but suddenly it took shape and fitted itself into
the picture...

Laura Fairford sat near by, a book on her knee. At the sound of his voice she looked up.

"What was the name of the first nurse?"

"The first--?"

"The one that went away."

"Oh--Miss Hicks, you mean?"

"How long is it since she went?"

"It must be three weeks. She had another case."

He thought this over carefully; then he spoke again. "Call Undine."

She made no answer, and he repeated irritably: "Why don't you call her? I want to speak to her."

Mrs. Fairford laid down her book and came to him.

"She's not here--just now."

He dealt with this also, laboriously. "You mean she's out--she's not in the house?"

"I mean she hasn't come yet."

As she spoke Ralph felt a sudden strength and hardness in his brain and body. Everything in
him became as clear as noon.

"But it was before Miss Hicks left that you told me you'd sent for her, and that she'd be here
the following week. And you say Miss Hicks has been gone three weeks."

This was what he had worked out in his head, and what he meant to say to his sister; but something
seemed to snap shut in his throat, and he closed his eyes without speaking.

Even when Mr. Spragg came to see him he said nothing. They talked about his illness, about
the hot weather, about the rumours that Harmon B. Driscoll was again threatened with indictment;
and then Mr. Spragg pulled himself out of his chair and said: "I presume you'll call round
at the office before you leave the city."

"Oh, yes: as soon as I'm up," Ralph answered. They understood each other.

Clare had urged him to come down to Long Island and complete his convalescence there, but he
preferred to stay in Washington Square till he should be strong enough for the journey to the
Adirondacks, whither Laura had already preceded him with Paul. He did not want to see any one
but his mother and grandfather till his legs could carry him to Mr. Spragg's office. It was
an oppressive day in mid-August, with a yellow mist of heat in the sky, when at last he entered
the big office-building. Swirls of dust lay on the mosaic floor, and a stale smell of decayed
fruit and salt air and steaming asphalt filled the place like a fog. As he shot up in the elevator
some one slapped him on the back, and turning he saw Elmer Moffatt at his side, smooth and
rubicund under a new straw hat.

Moffatt was loudly glad to see him. "I haven't laid eyes on you for months. At the old stand
still?"

"So am I," he added, as Ralph assented. "Hope to see you there again some day. Don't forget
it's MY turn this time: glad if I can be any use to you. So long." Ralph's weak bones ached
under his handshake.

"How's Mrs. Marvell?" he turned back from his landing to call out; and Ralph answered: "Thanks;
she's very well."

Mr. Spragg sat alone in his murky inner office, the fly-blown engraving of Daniel Webster above
his head and the congested scrap-basket beneath his feet. He looked fagged and sallow, like
the day.

Ralph sat down on the other side of the desk. For a moment his throat contracted as it had
when he had tried to question his sister; then he asked: "Where's Undine?"

Mr. Spragg glanced at the calendar that hung from a hat-peg on the door. Then he released the
Masonic emblem from his grasp, drew out his watch and consulted it critically.

"If the train's on time I presume she's somewhere between Chicago and Omaha round about now."

Ralph stared at him, wondering if the heat had gone to his head. "I don't understand."

"The Twentieth Century's generally considered the best route to Dakota," explained Mr. Spragg,
who pronounced the word ROWT.

"Do you mean to say Undine's in the United States?"

Mr. Spragg's lower lip groped for the phantom tooth-pick. "Why, let me see: hasn't Dakota been
a state a year or two now?"

"Oh, God--" Ralph cried, pushing his chair back violently and striding across the narrow room.

As he turned, Mr. Spragg stood up and advanced a few steps. He had given up the quest for the
tooth-pick, and his drawn-in lips were no more than a narrow depression in his beard. He stood
before Ralph, absently shaking the loose change in his trouser-pockets.

Ralph felt the same hardness and lucidity that had come to him when he had heard his sister's
answer.

"She's gone, you mean? Left me? With another man?"

Mr. Spragg drew himself up with a kind of slouching majesty. "My daughter is not that style.
I understand Undine thinks there have been mistakes on both sides. She considers the tie was
formed too hastily. I believe desertion is the usual plea in such cases."

Ralph stared about him, hardly listening. He did not resent his father-in-law's tone. In a
dim way he guessed that Mr. Spragg was suffering hardly less than himself. But nothing was
clear to him save the monstrous fact suddenly upheaved in his path. His wife had left him,
and the plan for her evasion had been made and executed while he lay helpless: she had seized
the opportunity of his illness to keep him in ignorance of her design. The humour of it suddenly
struck him and he laughed.

"Do you mean to tell me that Undine's divorcing ME?"

"I presume that's her plan," Mr. Spragg admitted.

"For desertion?" Ralph pursued, still laughing.

His father-in-law hesitated a moment; then he answered: "You've always done all you could for
my daughter. There wasn't any other plea she could think of. She presumed this would be the
most agreeable to your family."

"It was good of her to think of that!"

Mr. Spragg's only comment was a sigh.

"Does she imagine I won't fight it?" Ralph broke out with sudden passion.

His father-in-law looked at him thoughtfully. "I presume you realize it ain't easy to change
Undine, once she's set on a thing."

"Perhaps not. But if she really means to apply for a divorce I can make it a little less easy
for her to get."

"That's so," Mr. Spragg conceded. He turned back to his revolving chair, and seating himself
in it began to drum on the desk with cigar-stained fingers.

"And by God, I will!" Ralph thundered. Anger was the only emotion in him now. He had been fooled,
cheated, made a mock of; but the score was not settled yet. He turned back and stood before
Mr. Spragg.

"I suppose she's gone with Van Degen?"

"My daughter's gone alone, sir. I saw her off at the station. I understood she was to join
a lady friend."

At every point Ralph felt his hold slip off the surface of his father-in-law's impervious fatalism.

"Does she suppose Van Degen's going to marry her?"

"Undine didn't mention her future plans to me." After a moment Mr. Spragg appended: "If she
had, I should have declined to discuss them with her." Ralph looked at him curiously, perceiving
that he intended in this negative way to imply his disapproval of his daughter's course.

"I shall fight it--I shall fight it!" the young man cried again. "You may tell her I shall
fight it to the end!"

Mr. Spragg pressed the nib of his pen against the dust-coated inkstand. "I suppose you would
have to engage a lawyer. She'll know it that way," he remarked.

"She'll know it--you may count on that!"

Ralph had begun to laugh again. Suddenly he heard his own laugh and it pulled him up. What
was he laughing about? What was he talking about? The thing was to act--to hold his tongue
and act. There was no use uttering windy threats to this broken-spirited old man.

A fury of action burned in Ralph, pouring light into his mind and strength into his muscles.
He caught up his hat and turned to the door.

As he opened it Mr. Spragg rose again and came forward with his slow shambling step. He laid
his hand on Ralph's arm.

"I'd 'a' given anything--anything short of my girl herself--not to have this happen to you,
Ralph Marvell."

"Thank you, sir," said Ralph.

They looked at each other for a moment; then Mr. Spragg added: "But it HAS happened, you know.
Bear that in mind. Nothing you can do will change it. Time and again, I've found that a good
thing to remember."

XXIII

In the Adirondacks Ralph Marvell sat day after day on the balcony of his little house above
the lake, staring at the great white cloud-reflections in the water and at the dark line of
trees that closed them in. Now and then he got into the canoe and paddled himself through a
winding chain of ponds to some lonely clearing in the forest; and there he lay on his back
in the pine-needles and watched the great clouds form and dissolve themselves above his head.

All his past life seemed to be symbolized by the building-up and breaking-down of those fluctuating
shapes, which incalculable wind-currents perpetually shifted and remodelled or swept from the
zenith like a pinch of dust. His sister told him that he looked well--better than he had in
years; and there were moments when his listlessness, his stony insensibility to the small pricks
and frictions of daily life, might have passed for the serenity of recovered health.

There was no one with whom he could speak of Undine. His family had thrown over the whole subject
a pall of silence which even Laura Fairford shrank from raising. As for his mother, Ralph had
seen at once that the idea of talking over the situation was positively frightening to her.
There was no provision for such emergencies in the moral order of Washington Square. The affair
was a "scandal," and it was not in the Dagonet tradition to acknowledge the existence of scandals.
Ralph recalled a dim memory of his childhood, the tale of a misguided friend of his mother's
who had left her husband for a more congenial companion, and who, years later, returning ill
and friendless to New York, had appealed for sympathy to Mrs. Marvell. The latter had not refused
to give it; but she had put on her black cashmere and two veils when she went to see her unhappy
friend, and had never mentioned these errands of mercy to her husband.

Ralph suspected that the constraint shown by his mother and sister was partly due to their
having but a dim and confused view of what had happened. In their vocabulary the word "divorce"
was wrapped in such a dark veil of innuendo as no ladylike hand would care to lift. They had
not reached the point of differentiating divorces, but classed them indistinctively as disgraceful
incidents, in which the woman was always to blame, but the man, though her innocent victim,
was yet inevitably contaminated. The time involved in the "proceedings" was viewed as a penitential
season during which it behoved the family of the persons concerned to behave as if they were
dead; yet any open allusion to the reason for adopting such an attitude would have been regarded
as the height of indelicacy.

Mr. Dagonet's notion of the case was almost as remote from reality. All he asked was that his
grandson should "thrash" somebody, and he could not be made to understand that the modern drama
of divorce is sometimes cast without a Lovelace.

"You might as well tell me there was nobody but Adam in the garden when Eve picked the apple.
You say your wife was discontented? No woman ever knows she's discontented till some man tells
her so. My God! I've seen smash-ups before now; but I never yet saw a marriage dissolved like
a business partnership. Divorce without a lover? Why, it's--it's as unnatural as getting drunk
on lemonade."

After this first explosion Mr. Dagonet also became silent; and Ralph perceived that what annoyed
him most was the fact of the "scandal's" not being one in any gentlemanly sense of the word.
It was like some nasty business mess, about which Mr. Dagonet couldn't pretend to have an opinion,
since such things didn't happen to men of his kind. That such a thing should have happened
to his only grandson was probably the bitterest experience of his pleasantly uneventful life;
and it added a touch of irony to Ralph's unhappiness to know how little, in the whole affair,
he was cutting the figure Mr. Dagonet expected him to cut.

At first he had chafed under the taciturnity surrounding him: had passionately longed to cry
out his humiliation, his rebellion, his despair. Then he began to feel the tonic effect of
silence; and the next stage was reached when it became clear to him that there was nothing
to say. There were thoughts and thoughts: they bubbled up perpetually from the black springs
of his hidden misery, they stole on him in the darkness of night, they blotted out the light
of day; but when it came to putting them into words and applying them to the external facts
of the case, they seemed totally unrelated to it. One more white and sun-touched glory had
gone from his sky; but there seemed no way of connecting that with such practical issues as
his being called on to decide whether Paul was to be put in knickerbockers or trousers, and
whether he should go back to Washington Square for the winter or hire a small house for himself
and his son.

The latter question was ultimately decided by his remaining under his grandfather's roof. November
found him back in the office again, in fairly good health, with an outer skin of indifference
slowly forming over his lacerated soul. There had been a hard minute to live through when he
came back to his old brown room in Washington Square. The walls and tables were covered with
photographs of Undine: effigies of all shapes and sizes, expressing every possible sentiment
dear to the photographic tradition. Ralph had gathered them all up when he had moved from West
End Avenue after Undine's departure for Europe, and they throned over his other possessions
as her image had throned over his future the night he had sat in that very room and dreamed
of soaring up with her into the blue...

It was impossible to go on living with her photographs about him; and one evening, going up
to his room after dinner, he began to unhang them from the walls, and to gather them up from
book-shelves and mantel-piece and tables. Then he looked about for some place in which to hide
them. There were drawers under his book-cases; but they were full of old discarded things,
and even if he emptied the drawers, the photographs, in their heavy frames, were almost all
too large to fit into them. He turned next to the top shelf of his cupboard; but here the nurse
had stored Paul's old toys, his sand-pails, shovels and croquet-box. Every corner was packed
with the vain impedimenta of living, and the mere thought of clearing a space in the chaos
was too great an effort.

He began to replace the pictures one by one; and the last was still in his hand when he heard
his sister's voice outside. He hurriedly put the portrait back in its usual place on his writing-table,
and Mrs. Fairford, who had been dining in Washington Square, and had come up to bid him good
night, flung her arms about him in a quick embrace and went down to her carriage.

The next afternoon, when he came home from the office, he did not at first see any change in
his room; but when he had lit his pipe and thrown himself into his arm-chair he noticed that
the photograph of his wife's picture by Popple no longer faced him from the mantel-piece. He
turned to his writing-table, but her image had vanished from there too; then his eye, making
the circuit of the walls, perceived that they also had been stripped. Not a single photograph
of Undine was left; yet so adroitly had the work of elimination been done, so ingeniously the
remaining objects readjusted, that the change attracted no attention.

Ralph was angry, sore, ashamed. He felt as if Laura, whose hand he instantly detected, had
taken a cruel pleasure in her work, and for an instant he hated her for it. Then a sense of
relief stole over him. He was glad he could look about him without meeting Undine's eyes, and
he understood that what had been done to his room he must do to his memory and his imagination:
he must so readjust his mind that, whichever way he turned his thoughts, her face should no
longer confront him. But that was a task that Laura could not perform for him, a task to be
accomplished only by the hard continuous tension of his will.

With the setting in of the mood of silence all desire to fight his wife's suit died out. The
idea of touching publicly on anything that had passed between himself and Undine had become
unthinkable. Insensibly he had been subdued to the point of view about him, and the idea of
calling on the law to repair his shattered happiness struck him as even more grotesque than
it was degrading. Nevertheless, some contradictory impulse of his divided spirit made him resent,
on the part of his mother and sister, a too-ready acceptance of his attitude. There were moments
when their tacit assumption that his wife was banished and forgotten irritated him like the
hushed tread of sympathizers about the bed of an invalid who will not admit that he suffers.

His irritation was aggravated by the discovery that Mrs. Marvell and Laura had already begun
to treat Paul as if he were an orphan. One day, coming unnoticed into the nursery, Ralph heard
the boy ask when his mother was coming back; and Mrs. Fairford, who was with him, answered:
"She's not coming back, dearest; and you're not to speak of her to father."

Ralph, when the boy was out of hearing, rebuked his sister for her answer. "I don't want you
to talk of his mother as if she were dead. I don't want you to forbid Paul to speak of her."

Laura, though usually so yielding, defended herself. "What's the use of encouraging him to
speak of her when he's never to see her? The sooner he forgets her the better."

Ralph pondered. "Later--if she asks to see him--I shan't refuse."

Mrs. Fairford pressed her lips together to check the answer: "She never will!"

Ralph heard it, nevertheless, and let it pass. Nothing gave him so profound a sense of estrangement
from his former life as the conviction that his sister was probably right. He did not really
believe that Undine would ever ask to see her boy; but if she did he was determined not to
refuse her request.

Time wore on, the Christmas holidays came and went, and the winter continued to grind out the
weary measure of its days. Toward the end of January Ralph received a registered letter, addressed
to him at his office, and bearing in the corner of the envelope the names of a firm of Sioux
Falls attorneys. He instantly divined that it contained the legal notification of his wife's
application for divorce, and as he wrote his name in the postman's book he smiled grimly at
the thought that the stroke of his pen was doubtless signing her release. He opened the letter,
found it to be what he had expected, and locked it away in his desk without mentioning the
matter to any one.

He supposed that with the putting away of this document he was thrusting the whole subject
out of sight; but not more than a fortnight later, as he sat in the Subway on his way down-town,
his eye was caught by his own name on the first page of the heavily head-lined paper which
the unshaved occupant of the next seat held between grimy fists. The blood rushed to Ralph's
forehead as he looked over the man's arm and read: "Society Leader Gets Decree," and beneath
it the subordinate clause: "Says Husband Too Absorbed In Business To Make Home Happy." For
weeks afterward, wherever he went, he felt that blush upon his forehead. For the first time
in his life the coarse fingering of public curiosity had touched the secret places of his soul,
and nothing that had gone before seemed as humiliating as this trivial comment on his tragedy.
The paragraph continued on its way through the press, and whenever he took up a newspaper he
seemed to come upon it, slightly modified, variously developed, but always reverting with a
kind of unctuous irony to his financial preoccupations and his wife's consequent loneliness.
The phrase was even taken up by the paragraph writer, called forth excited letters from similarly
situated victims, was commented on in humorous editorials and served as a text for pulpit denunciations
of the growing craze for wealth; and finally, at his dentist's, Ralph came across it in a Family
Weekly, as one of the "Heart problems" propounded to subscribers, with a Gramophone, a Straight-front
Corset and a Vanity-box among the prizes offered for its solution.

XXIV

"If you'd only had the sense to come straight to me, Undine Spragg! There isn't a tip I couldn't
have given you--not one!"

This speech, in which a faintly contemptuous compassion for her friend's case was blent with
the frankest pride in her own, probably represented the nearest approach to "tact" that Mrs.
James J. Rolliver had yet acquired. Undine was impartial enough to note in it a distinct advance
on the youthful methods of Indiana Frusk; yet it required a good deal of self-control to take
the words to herself with a smile, while they seemed to be laying a visible scarlet welt across
the pale face she kept valiantly turned to her friend. The fact that she must permit herself
to be pitied by Indiana Frusk gave her the uttermost measure of the depth to which her fortunes
had fallen. This abasement was inflicted on her in the staring gold apartment of the Hotel
Nouveau Luxe in which the Rollivers had established themselves on their recent arrival in Paris.
The vast drawing-room, adorned only by two high-shouldered gilt baskets of orchids drooping
on their wires, reminded Undine of the "Looey suite" in which the opening scenes of her own
history had been enacted; and the resemblance and the difference were emphasized by the fact
that the image of her past self was not inaccurately repeated in the triumphant presence of
Indiana Rolliver.

"There isn't a tip I couldn't have given you--not one!" Mrs. Rolliver reproachfully repeated;
and all Undine's superiorities and discriminations seemed to shrivel up in the crude blaze
of the other's solid achievement.

There was little comfort in noting, for one's private delectation, that Indiana spoke of her
husband as "Mr. Rolliver," that she twanged a piercing R, that one of her shoulders was still
higher than the other, and that her striking dress was totally unsuited to the hour, the place
and the occasion. She still did and was all that Undine had so sedulously learned not to be
and to do; but to dwell on these obstacles to her success was but to be more deeply impressed
by the fact that she had nevertheless succeeded.

Not much more than a year had elapsed since Undine Marvell, sitting in the drawing-room of
another Parisian hotel, had heard the immense orchestral murmur of Paris rise through the open
windows like the ascending movement of her own hopes. The immense murmur still sounded on,
deafening and implacable as some elemental force; and the discord in her fate no more disturbed
it than the motor wheels rolling by under the windows were disturbed by the particles of dust
that they ground to finer powder as they passed.

"I could have told you one thing right off," Mrs. Rolliver went on with her ringing energy.
"And that is, to get your divorce first thing. A divorce is always a good thing to have: you
never can tell when you may want it. You ought to have attended to that before you even BEGAN
with Peter Van Degen."

Undine listened, irresistibly impressed. "Did YOU?" she asked; but Mrs. Rolliver, at this,
grew suddenly veiled and sibylline. She wound her big bejewelled hand through her pearls--there
were ropes and ropes of them--and leaned back, modestly sinking her lids.

"I'm here, anyhow," she rejoined, with "CIRCUMSPICE!" in look and tone.

Undine, obedient to the challenge, continued to gaze at the pearls. They were real; there was
no doubt about that. And so was Indiana's marriage--if she kept out of certain states.

"Don't you see," Mrs. Rolliver continued, "that having to leave him when you did, and rush
off to Dakota for six months, was--was giving him too much time to think; and giving it at
the wrong time, too?" "Oh, I see. But what could I do? I'm not an immoral woman."

"Of course not, dearest. You were merely thoughtless that's what I meant by saying you ought
to have had your divorce ready."

A flicker of self-esteem caused Undine to protest. "It wouldn't have made any difference. His
wife would never have given him up."

"She's so crazy about him?"

"No: she hates him so. And she hates me too, because she's in love with my husband."

Indiana bounced out of her lounging attitude and struck her hands together with a rattle of rings.

"In love with your husband? What's the matter, then? Why on earth didn't the four of you fix
it up together?"

"You don't understand." (It was an undoubted relief to be able, at last, to say that to Indiana!)
"Clare Van Degen thinks divorce wrong--or rather awfully vulgar."

"VULGAR?" Indiana flamed. "If that isn't just too much! A woman who's in love with another
woman's husband? What does she think refined, I'd like to know? Having a lover, I suppose--like
the women in these nasty French plays? I've told Mr. Rolliver I won't go to the theatre with
him again in Paris--it's too utterly low. And the swell society's just as bad: it's simply
rotten. Thank goodness I was brought up in a place where there's some sense of decency left!"
She looked compassionately at Undine. "It was New York that demoralized you--and I don't blame
you for it. Out at Apex you'd have acted different. You never NEVER would have given way to
your feelings before you'd got your divorce."

A slow blush rose to Undine's forehead.

"He seemed so unhappy--" she murmured.

"Oh, I KNOW!" said Indiana in a tone of cold competence. She gave Undine an impatient glance.
"What was the understanding between you, when you left Europe last August to go out to Dakota?"

"Peter was to go to Reno in the autumn--so that it wouldn't look too much as if we were acting
together. I was to come to Chicago to see him on his way out there."

"And he never came?"

"No."

"And he stopped writing?"

"Oh, he never writes."

Indiana heaved a deep sigh of intelligence. "There's one perfectly clear rule: never let out
of your sight a man who doesn't write."

"I know. That's why I stayed with him--those few weeks last summer...."

