It is an excellent plan, if the ground is disengaged two or three months previous to the time
it is wanted for the cucumber bed, to mark it out six feet wide, and put in six inches of dung
or leaf mould, and lay it up in ridges of two feet six inches in width, and a foot in depth.
When wanted for use, level it down, and dig a trench three feet wide for the dung, levelling
it as before directed. This method, if it can be conveniently attended to, is certainly preferable
to the other, as it allows an opportunity of incorporating the dung and mould together. If
hot dung cannot be easily obtained, it may be dispensed with, provided the seed is not sown
earlier than the month of May.

Let the ground be ridged up as before directed, and when wanted for use, level it down; then
mark out six feet wide beds for each, and three feet alleys; afterwards place the line to the
middle of the ridge, and mark out three feet six inches, which must be the distance from the
centre of each glass. Take out two spadesful of the mould, level it on the ridge, and put one
spadeful of light rich earth in its place, for the purpose of receiving the seed. If the natural
soil is light and rich, take out one spadeful, making it round and hollow, about eight inches
wide; then sow the seed from eight to twelve under each glass. If the mould is dry, apply water
to the seed, place the glasses on, and shut them down close, observing as they become dry,
to sprinkle them with water.

After the seed has been up about a week, it will be necessary to thin them out, in the proportion
of six plants to each glass; and in the week following reduce them to three, which is the proper
number to be grown together finally for a crop. When they are thus divided, put some light
mould round the stems of the plants, which should be done at two different times, allowing
a week to elapse between each application, and filling up the hollow that is left.

As soon as they have made two rough leaves, top them at the second joint. This is a plan which
may be adopted with success. Hot dung is also of great advantage, as it will cause them to
come into bearing nearly a month sooner than would otherwise be the case.

After the plants have been topped, as above directed, let them run to six joints, and then
top them again, when they will show fruit, which may be topped at the first joint. If the hand-glasses
are large, fruit will be ready to cut very early.

Be particular in not suffering them to run to too much vine; six joints is quite sufficient
at the first, and afterwards always keep them topped at the first or second joint. By strict
attention to this mode of treatment, you may ensure a more abundant crop, and much finer fruit,
than can be calculated upon from the usual method of suffering the vine to grow to a considerable
length, which tends materially to weaken and exhaust the plant.

Let them be kept under the glasses as long as possible, without danger of injuring them, admitting
a small quantity of air in the day-time, when the weather is warm, by means of a piece of wood,
in the form of a wedge, about seven inches long, five inches wide, flat, and about three inches
at the top. This will enable you to rise or fall the glass according to the quantity of air
necessary to be admitted.

Before placing the vine outside the glasses, it will be necessary to admit a larger portion
of air, both night and day, for three or four days, in order to harden the plants; then mulch
the bed all over with litter, which will cause the fruit to be kept clean, and the roots moist,
an essential requisite in the culture of cucumbers.

Though moisture is so extremely necessary, yet at all times in the application of water you
must be regulated by the temperature of the season. If the weather is hot and dry when they
come into full bearing, from three to four gallons of water will be required to each glass
every two or three days, if the soil is light, but if of a strong loamy nature, less will be
sufficient.

Lay out the vines regular, peg them down, and place four half bricks, that is, one to each
corner, under the frame of the glass; or another method may be adopted, in raising the glass
to the south by means of a piece of stick, about the thickness of a broom-stick, a foot in
length, with three notches cut in it, about two inches apart, for the purpose of resting the
glass upon. This plan is far preferable to the former, in materially accelerating the growth
of the fruit, by preventing too great a current of air; besides possessing the advantage of
easier access to the plants, when there is a necessity for examining them. It is, however,
requisite when this method is adopted, that the ridges should always front the south.

If the above directions are strictly attended to, and the season is in any degree favorable,
a plentiful crop of fine fruit may be expected.

DIMENSIONS OF THE BOXES AND LIGHTS FOR

Early and Late Cucumbers.

Three-light Boxes for October sowing.

The boxes should be made of good seasoned deal, one inch and a half thick, ten feet seven inches
long, four feet three inches wide, and one foot eight inches deep at the back, and eleven inches
in the front. The bars to be three inches wide, to have two narrow slips two inches in height,
and one slip at each end. The bars to be fluted on each side of the slips, with oak corners,
five inches wide.

The lights to be four feet three inches and a half long, three feet six inches wide, and the
back rail two inches and three quarters wide; the front to be three inches, and the sides two
inches and a half; with three bars, rounded off to a point inside, three quarters of an inch
wide. To be made of good seasoned deal, and to have horns both in the back and front. The squares
must be formed of strong crown glass, leaded and cemented; let there be five in length, the
one in front being five inches long. A small iron bar must be passed in the middle, under the
lead of each light, which must also have iron handles.

One-light Box for October sowing.

The lights to be half an inch longer than the box; and in all other respects the same as those
before described.

For January sowing. In other respects to be the same as those for October.

For Spring sowing.

The boxes to be one foot two inches deep at the back, and eight inches in the front. In other
respects, the boxes as well as the lights for spring sowing, must be the same as those directed
for the January seed-bed.

Both boxes and lights should have three coats of paint, white inside, and a dark lead colour
on the outside.

ON THE CULTURE OF THE EARLY AND LATE

Melon.

ON THE MANAGEMENT REQUIRED IN THE CULTURE OF

Early and Late Melons.

For early melons have three loads of dung for a three-light box; but if you have previously
grown early cucumbers, the old linings will be useful for the melon bed, by mixing a proportion
of one half of fresh dung with it. This, in fact, will be better than all fresh, as it requires
only once turning, whereas new dung should be turned twice. In gentlemen's gardens there is
generally an abundance of leaves, and sometimes a scarcity of dung; when such is the case,
leaves, mixed with an equal proportion of dung, may be used very successfully for the early
melon; and for the late one all leaves, from trees or shrubs, will answer the purpose, particularly
where there are brick pits.

Let the dung be put together for a week, and lay the same time before it is turned. Be careful
that the bottom is dry where the bed is built; raise it with mould or road sand to the height
of six or eight inches, and allow the bottom to be eight or nine inches longer and wider than
the box, so that when the bed is made, it may be drawn up in a gradual manner to about three
or four inches wider than the box, observing at the same time to beat it well down with a fork.
Let it be about three feet nine inches at the back by three feet six inches in the front; should
there, however, happen to be a scarcity of dung, a foot of strawberry or asparagus halm, fagots,
or pieces of wood, or, indeed, some of each, may be added at the bottom of the bed.

If the dung is dry, apply water to it, that it may be properly moistened; and after the bed
is formed, let it be again watered, as the plants will not thrive so well, nor the linings
have the proper effect, if the bed is kept too dry.

The bed should be made three weeks or a month before the plants are put into it, and must be
perfectly sweet before they are ridged out. When the bed is in a proper condition, hollow it
out in the middle to the depth of four inches, and put a large barrow-fall of mould to each
hill, pressing it down close with the hand about a foot deep.

The day before you intend to ridge out, put a pot of plants in the bed, to prove whether it
is sweet, which, if you ascertain to be the case, and the box is large, ridge them out, three
plants to a light; but if small two will be sufficient.

The proper time to sow the seed for an early crop is about the middle of January; and the early
cucumber bed will do very well for the purpose. Those sown at this time will be fit to cut
in the first or second week of May; but if there is no particular necessity for fruit so early,
the beginning of February is a preferable season to sow, when they will be ready to cut by
the latter end of May or the beginning of June.

The Early Cantaloupe is the best sort for an early crop. Let them be sown in leaf mould, about
eighteen or twenty seeds in a forty-eight size pot; immediately apply water, and plunge the
pots in a good sharp heat. As soon as the seed makes its appearance, which will be in the course
of about three days, if it is good, un-plunge the pots and give them a little water. In two
or three days more they will be fit to pot off, which ought always to be done when about a
week old, as they strike much more freely when potted off young. Let the soil for potting off
the plants be half leaf mould, and half light loam or bog earth.

The best season to sow for a second crop is the beginning of March, and well calculated for
the Stroud Rock, Scarlet Rock, White-seeded Rock, Green Flesh, and, in fact, many others of
nearly the same description, though under different names, which they have derived from those
gardeners who have cultivated them by impregnating one with the other. It is by no means, however,
advisable to sow the Black Rock before the latter end of March, as it is only calculated for
a late melon, and should be grown in large boxes, two plants to a light. This, though a fine
looking fruit, and well flavoured, will not suit those whose object is to produce a large quantity;
for, by attempting to grow more than two in a light, they will not rock, nor arrive to any
degree of perfection.[7]

The Stroud Rock is a particular favourite with the Author, who has produced fruit of this kind
upwards of seven pounds in weight, though the common size varies from three to five. This description
of melon is not generally known, although it is a fine looking and excellent flavoured fruit:
it possesses a thin skin, orange-coloured flesh, and the rind is very dark.

The Scarlet Rock is, however, the finest flavoured melon that can be produced, though small
in its growth, seldom exceeding the weight of three pounds, and commonly from one to two. The
flesh is of a deep scarlet colour, and it is rather inclined to rock.

The Early Cantaloupe is the most productive melon in bearing; but in order to obtain them good
flavoured no more than one fruit must be suffered to swell on a plant at a time, except the
lights are large, when two may be allowed, that is, six in a light; but if, however, the plants
are confined to one fruit, a second crop may be obtained.

The White-seeded Rock is a very fine melon in appearance, and much approved of by some gardeners
for its qualities in ripening early for a rock; but it will not, however, keep long, soon loses
its flavour, and the colour changes very yellow; it is also extremely tender in its growth,
and very inferior in flavour to the Stroud Rock; neither is it so handsome a fruit, so well-flavoured,
nor does it ripen any sooner.

The Green Flesh is a fine flavoured melon, with a thin skin, but generally small in its dimensions.
The Author has, however, a sort of this kind that will grow from three to five pounds in weight.

The Black Rock melon should not be sown later than the latter end of May; the Stroud and Scarlet
Rock may be sown as late as the tenth of June; and the Early Cantaloupe about the twentieth
of June.

In order to produce fine fruit, be particular in having a good depth of earth, from a foot
to eighteen inches will be necessary. When the hills are made for the very early melons, one
large barrow-full of mould will be sufficient, which must be pressed down close with the hand.
Those that are sown in March will require one barrow-full and a half, and those afterwards
two. In applying this mould, put one barrow-full in first, and tread it down; then add the
remainder, and press it close down with the hand. Procure some good holding loam of a greasy
nature, such as is generally found in the marshes, which is the most preferable kind of soil
for melons, and let it be well weathered before using. It ought to lay twelve, or at the least
six months. Mix this with a sixth proportion of good rotten dung or leaf mould, and let it
be turned over two or three different times, that it may be properly sweetened and incorporated
together; taking care, however, that it is not broken too fine.

The mould intended for the hills of the first crop should be lighter than for those grown afterwards,
being composed of light loam, mixed with a sixth part of leaf mould or rotten dung; or an equal
proportion of stiff loam and leaf mould. As mould is added after the plants have been ridged
out, let it be trod down close, and take particular care that the roots are never exposed to
the sun, but as soon as they make their appearance through the hills, increase the mould, in
the proportion of a barrow-full to each hill for the early melon, and two, or even more, to
the later one.

In watering the plants, as the season advances, you must be regulated by the composition of
the soil, and the temperature of the weather. If the soil is stiff, it will not require half
the quantity that should be applied to light mould. If the weather is warm, much water is necessary,
but if cold very little should be given, as too much moisture at that time will create the canker.

Heat being materially requisite for preserving the growth of the melon, great care must be
taken in keeping the bed well supplied with linings, which must be added until the weather
becomes fine and settled; they will generally be required until the beginning of June; but
if the season is even then cold, it is better to continue them longer.

In covering up the early plants, at the first ridging out, a single or double mat will be sufficient;
after that add a little hay, and increase it if the weather is cold. This should be continued
until the middle of June, or later, if the season is unfavourable.

Many gardeners being unacquainted with the proper mode of training and topping the melon, and
thereby finding it extremely difficult to set the fruit, the Author will here give the method
always pursued by himself, which, if strictly observed, will be found to be attended with far
less trouble, and more certain in its effect than the plan generally adopted.

When the plants are potted off, top them at the second break; that is, let them grow to two
leaves; then take out the break, which in some kinds is in the centre, and in others in the
second leaf. If you require the fruit very fine, two plants will be sufficient in a light;
but should there be no particular necessity in that respect, and the lights are sufficiently
capacious, three may be matured extremely well.

Have four runners to a light; that is, if two plants, two runners to each; but if three, two
runners to one plant, and one to each of the other two. If the lights are large, they may be
suffered to run to eight joints; but if, on the contrary, the lights are confined, six will
be sufficient; and all other breaks that come out at home, with the first break that issues
from the runners, should be effectually taken away, in order that the others may derive strength
and nourishment. As soon as they make the first breaks from the runners, which by some are
denominated cross bars, top them at the first joint, and in most sorts they will generally
show fruit; but if it should so happen that this does not succeed, top them again, when they
are certain of showing fruit at the second.

If they are impregnated in the same manner as prescribed in the directions for the cucumber,
there will be no difficulty in setting the fruit, which will also show much bolder, and possess
greater strength when topped in close.

Every description of melon will be brought to a greater degree of perfection, by being suffered
to swell off on the first shows, which can alone be effected by keeping them thin of vine:
if this is particularly attended to, no apprehension need be entertained of the fruit being
small or delicate, as, in proportion to the quantity of vine, so it decreases the strength
and vigour of the plants.

Great care is necessary in watering the plants: when they are young, it should be applied with
a rose; but as soon as the runners are extended all over the bed, that may be dispensed with.
If the weather is dull, a small quantity of water will be sufficient; and if very fine, more
must be applied carefully without a rose, which will be found beneficial in causing them to
set more freely.[8] An insufficiency of moisture is an error too prevalent with many gardeners
in the culture of the melon, and indeed the inferiority of their fruit, both in weight and
flavour, may be greatly attributed to want of judgment in this particular; for if the plants
are kept thin of vine, the necessity of which has been before stated, they are of course more
open to the air, and the sun has greater power in drying up the soil, consequently the plants
will become exhausted, and the fruit will ripen before its growth is properly matured.

The Early Cantaloupe melon, if left to its full time, will be five weeks from the period of
setting before it ripens; the Stroud about six; the Scarlet seven; and the Black Rock upwards
of seven; there will, however, be some difference between those forced early with bottom heat,
and those grown late; the early ones coming to perfection three or four days, or even a week
before the other.

The proper time to sow for under-ground melons, that is, such as are grown without linings,
is from the twenty-fifth of March to the twentieth of June; observing, at the same time, that
those which are sown in March will require stronger beds than those that are set three weeks
or a month later.

The beds for the first should be formed of good dung, well worked, and three feet in height;
whereas the latter will only require two feet. Dig a trench the size of the frame, about eighteen
inches deep; and if the soil is a strong good holding loam, it will answer the purpose for
any description of rock melon; they requiring a strong soil to bring them to perfection; a
light loam, however, may be used for the Early Cantaloupe.

As soon as the bed is formed, tread it down well, make it even, and let it have about six inches
fall from the back to the front; then put on the boxes and lights, and when the heat rises
to its proper height, which will be in the course of three or four days, put the mould in for
the hills, in the proportion of two barrows-full to a light, levelling it about an inch all
over the bed, for the purpose of preventing the rank steam from injuring the plants. On the
following day they may be ridged out, and watered, being very particular in sprinkling the
bed regularly over. Admit air freely both night and day at first, until the bed is purified,
and becomes perfectly sweet; this will be the case in about a week, when they may be shut down
at night. Let the topping and training be the same as directed for the early ones.

If the soil is strong, and of a binding nature, a bank may be made on the outside, at the back
and front, about a foot or eighteen inches wide, which will prove a great support to the fruit,
and cause them to grow much larger and finer; but if the soil is light and rich, by no means
make a bank, nor ridge out the plants in it, as mould of that description is not at all adapted
for the production of fine melons. The only one that will in any degree thrive in light rich
soil is the Early Cantaloupe; but any kind of the rock description will never come to perfection.

It is here necessary to observe that it is impossible ever to obtain fine or good flavoured
fruit, if more than one is suffered to swell on a plant at a time, as that support which is
essential and ought to be directed to one object, by becoming divided, is insufficient for
the perfection of more, and naturally weakens the fruit, and renders it of little or no value.

Many horticulturists experience much difficulty from the effects of the red spider and canker
in melons; the former being caused by keeping them too dry, and the latter arising from too
much moisture. In order to avoid these evils, the following directions should be particularly
attended to. When the weather is hot, or there is a strong bottom heat, it is necessary to
be free in the application of water, especially round the sides of the boxes; for when the
plants cover the bed, it will not be requisite to give any in the centre over the stems.

When the plants cover the surface of the bed always water without a rose, observing that it
should be invariably done in the morning, and when the weather is fine, so as to allow the
vines to get dry before night, which will not be the case, if it is applied in the afternoon;
and should the following day be dull, and perhaps continue so for three or four, the vines
will remain wet, and then there is every probability of their getting the canker, which entirely
proceeds from a cold chill, created by unnecessary moisture.

The canker is a very destructive disorder, and extremely difficult to eradicate. The only means
that can be adopted, or likely to prove beneficial, is to keep the plants as dry as possible,
and to give a good heat; being careful, at the same time, not to run into the other extreme,
and create the red spider. If, however, the plants are kept thin of vine, and water is applied
in the manner before directed, no fear need be entertained of either of the above disorders.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] The Author has in his possession a sort of this description, from which he has produced
fruit upwards of ten pounds in weight.

[8] As the season advances, and the sun becomes powerful, it will be necessary to shade them
from the extreme violence of the heat. Mats are generally made use of, but the Author considers
evergreen boughs far preferable, as the former entirely precludes the sun, whereas the latter
is beneficial to the plants, in admitting it partially. This will be generally requisite from
about ten until two; and at that time, in proportion to the degree of shade, a larger quantity
of air must be admitted.

DIMENSIONS OF THE BOXES AND LIGHTS FOR

Early and late Melons.

Boxes and Lights for the first early Melons.

The wood-work should be of the same thickness, as those directed for early cucumbers, and the
boxes of the same length; but two feet deep at the back, five feet wide, and one foot three
inches in the front.

For Melons sown from the middle of February until the latter end of March, grown with linings.

The boxes and lights to be the same in thickness, length, and depth; five feet six inches wide;
four bars to a light, with a small iron bar across the middle, in the inside, under the lead-work.

For late Melons, grown without Linings.

The boxes and lights to be the same as those before described, with the exception of being
eighteen inches deep at the back, by eleven inches in the front.

Brick Pits.

Let these be formed of nine inch brick-work, sunk one foot under-ground; five feet high at
the back, by three feet six inches in the front, from the bottom; and six feet wide in the
inside. Let the lights be three feet eight inches wide.

THE END.

PRINTED BY S. CAVE, ISLINGTON GREEN.