The one shore is an honest and good life, for your own delight and the profit of others. But
there is a bad life, too--a life so sugared, so common to all, that if you follow it, you do
not notice that it is a bad life, and suffer only in your conscience, if you have one; but
if you leave it, and do not reach the real shore, you will be made miserable by solitude and
by the reproach of having deserted your fellows, and you will be ashamed. In short, I want
to say that it is out of the question to want to be rather good; it is out of the question
to jump into the water unless you know how to swim. One must be truthful and wish to be good
with all one's might, too. Do you feel this in you? The drift of what I say is that we all
know what PRINCESS MARYA ALEXEVNA [20] verdict about your marriage would be: that if young
people marry without a sufficient fortune, it means children, poverty, getting tired of each
other in a year or two; in ten years, quarrels, want--hell. And in all this PRINCESS MARYA
ALEXEVNA is perfectly right and plays the true prophet, unless these young people who are getting
married have another purpose, their one and only one, unknown to PRINCESS MARYA ALEXEVNA, and
that not a brainish purpose, not one recognized by the intellect, but one that gives life its
color and the attainment of which is more moving than any other. If you have this, good; marry
at once, and give the lie to PRINCESS MARYA ALEXEVNA. If not, it is a hundred to one that your
marriage will lead to nothing but misery. I am speaking to you from the bottom of my heart.
Receive my words into the bottom of yours, and weigh them well. Besides love for you as a son,
I have love for you also as a man standing at the cross-ways. I kiss you and Lyolya and Noletchka
and Seryozha, if he is back. We are all alive and well.

The following letter belongs to the same period:

Your letter to Tanya has arrived, my dear friend Ilya, and I see that you are still advancing
toward that purpose which you set up for yourself; and I want to write to you and to her--for
no doubt you tell her everything--what I think about it. Well, I think about it a great deal,
with joy and with fear mixed. This is what I think. If one marries in order to enjoy oneself
more, no good will ever come of it. To set up as one's main object, ousting everything else,
marriage, union with the being you love, is a great mistake. And an obvious one, if you think
about it. Object, marriage. Well, you marry; and what then? If you had no other object in life
before your marriage, it will be twice as hard to find one.

As a rule, people who are getting married completely forget this.

So many joyful events await them in the future, in wedlock and the arrival of children, that
those events seem to constitute life itself. But this is indeed a dangerous illusion.

If parents merely live from day to day, begetting children, and have no purpose in life, they
are only putting off the question of the purpose of life and that punishment which is allotted
to people who live without knowing why; they are only putting it off and not escaping it, because
they will have to bring up their children and guide their steps, but they will have nothing
to guide them by. And then the parents lose their human qualities and the happiness which depends
on the possession of them, and turn into mere breeding cattle.

That is why I say that people who are proposing to marry because their life SEEMS to them to
be full must more than ever set themselves to think and make clear to their own minds for the
sake of what each of them lives.

And in order to make this clear, you must consider the circumstances in which you live, your
past. Reckon up what you consider important and what unimportant in life. Find out what you
believe in; that is, what you look on as eternal and immutable truth, and what you will take
for your guide in life. And not only find out, but make clear to your own mind, and try to
practise or to learn to practise in your daily life; because until you practise what you believe
you cannot tell whether you believe it or not.

I know your faith, and that faith, or those sides of it which can be expressed in deeds, you
must now more than ever make clear to your own mind, by putting them into practice.

Your faith is that your welfare consists in loving people and being loved by them. For the
attainment of this end I know of three lines of action in which I perpetually exercise myself,
in which one can never exercise oneself enough and which are specially necessary to you now.

First, in order to be able to love people and to be loved by them, one must accustom oneself
to expect as little as possible from them, and that is very hard work; for if I expect much,
and am often disappointed, I am inclined rather to reproach them than to love them.

Second, in order to love people not in words, but in deed, one must train oneself to do what
benefits them. That needs still harder work, especially at your age, when it is one's natural
business to be studying.

Third, in order to love people and to b. l. b. t., [21] one must train oneself to gentleness,
humility, the art of bearing with disagreeable people and things, the art of behaving to them
so as not to offend any one, of being able to choose the least offense. And this is the hardest
work of all--work that never ceases from the time you wake till the time you go to sleep, and
the most joyful work of all, because day after day you rejoice in your growing success in it,
and receive a further reward, unperceived at first, but very joyful after, in being loved by
others.

So I advise you, Friend Ilya, and both of you, to live and to think as sincerely as you can,
because it is the only way you can discover if you are really going along the same road, and
whether it is wise to join hands or not; and at the same time, if you are sincere, you must
be making your future ready.

Your purpose in life must not be the joy of wedlock, but, by your life to bring more love and
truth into the world. The object of marriage is to help one another in the attainment of that
purpose.

The vilest and most selfish life is the life of the people who have joined together only in
order to enjoy life; and the highest vocation in the world is that of those who live in order
to serve God by bringing good into the world, and who have joined together for that very purpose.
Don't mistake half-measures for the real thing. Why should a man not choose the highest? Only
when you have chosen the highest, you must set your whole heart on it, and not just a little.
Just a little leads to nothing. There, I am tired of writing, and still have much left that
I wanted to say. I kiss you.

HELP FOR THE FAMINE-STRICKEN

AFTER my father had come to the conclusion that it was not only useless to help people with
money, but immoral, the part he took in distributing food among the peasants during the famines
of 1890, 1891, and 1898 may seem to have shown inconsistency and contradiction of thought.

"If a horseman sees that his horse is tired out, he must not remain seated on its back and
hold up its head, but simply get off," he used to say, condemning all the charities of the
well-fed people who sit on the back of the working classes, continue to enjoy all the benefits
of their privileged position, and merely give from their superfluity.

He did not believe in the good of such charity and considered it a form of self-hallucination,
all the more harmful because people thereby acquire a sort of moral right to continue that
idle, aristocratic life and get to go on increasing the poverty of the people.

In the autumn of 1890 my father thought of writing an article on the famine, which had then
spread over nearly all Russia.

Although from the newspapers and from the accounts brought by those who came from the famine-stricken
parts he already knew about the extent of the peasantry's disaster, nevertheless, when his
old friend Ivanovitch Rayovsky called on him at Yasnaya Polyana and proposed that he should
drive through to the Dankovski District with him in order to see the state of things in the
villages for himself, he readily agreed, and went with him to his property at Begitchovka.

He went there with the intention of staying only for a day or two; but when he saw what a call
there was for immediate measures, he at once set to work to help Rayovsky, who had already
instituted several kitchens in the villages, in relieving the distress of the peasantry, at
first on a small scale, and then, when big subscriptions began to pour in from every side,
on a continually increasing one. The upshot of it was that he devoted two whole years of his
life to the work.

It is wrong to think that my father showed any inconsistency in this matter. He did not delude
himself for a moment into thinking he was engaged on a virtuous and momentous task, but when
he saw the sufferings of the people, he simply could not bear to go on living comfortably at
Yasnaya or in Moscow any longer, but had to go out and help in order to relieve his own feelings.
Once he wrote:

There is much about it that is not what it ought to be; there is S. A.'s money [22] and the
subscriptions; there is the relation of those who feed and those who are fed. THERE IS SIN
WITHOUT END, but I cannot stay at home and write. I feel the necessity of taking part in it,
of doing something.

Six years later I worked again at the same job with my father in Tchornski and Mtsenski districts.

After the bad crops of the two preceding years it became clear by the beginning of the winter
of 1898 that a new famine was approaching in our neighborhood, and that charitable assistance
to the peasantry would be needed. I turned to my father for help. By the spring he had managed
to collect some money, and at the beginning of April he came himself to see me.

I must say that my father, who was very economical by nature, was extraordinarily cautious
and, I may say, even parsimonious in charitable matters. It is of course easy to understand,
if one considers the unlimited confidence which he enjoyed among the subscribers and the great
moral responsibility which he could not but feel toward them. So that before undertaking anything
he had himself to be fully convinced of the necessity of giving aid.

The day after his arrival, we saddled a couple of horses and rode out. We rode as we had ridden
together twenty years before, when we went out coursing with our greyhounds; that is, across
country, over the fields.

It was all the same to me which way we rode, as I believed that all the neighboring villages
were equally distressed, and my father, for the sake of old memories, wanted to revisit Spasskoye
Lyutovinovo, which was only six miles from me, and where he had not been since Turgenieff's
death. On the way there I remember he told me all about Turgenieff's mother, who was famous
through all the neighborhood for her remarkable intelligence, energy, and craziness. I do not
know that he ever saw her himself, or whether he was telling me only the reports that he had heard.

As we rode across the Turgenieff's park, he recalled in passing how of old he and Ivan Sergeyevitch
had disputed which park was best, Spasskoye or Yasnaya Polyana. I asked him:

"And now which do you think?"

"Yasnaya Polyana IS the best, though this is very fine, very fine indeed."

In the village we visited the head-man's and two or three other cottages, and came away disappointed.
There was no famine.

The peasants, who had been endowed at the emancipation with a full share of good land, and
had enriched themselves since by wage-earnings, were hardly in want at all. It is true that
some of the yards were badly stocked; but there was none of that acute degree of want which
amounts to famine and which strikes the eye at once.

I even remember my father reproaching me a little for having sounded the alarm when there was
no sufficient cause for it, and for a little while I felt rather ashamed and awkward before him.

Of course when he talked to the peasants he asked each of them if he remembered Turgenieff
and eagerly picked up anything they had to say about him. Some of the old men remembered him
and spoke of him with great affection.

MY FATHER'S ILLNESS IN THE CRIMEA

IN the autumn of 1901 my father was attacked by persistent feverishness, and the doctors advised
him to spend the winter in the Crimea. Countess Panina kindly lent him her Villa Gaspra, near
Koreiz, and he spent the winter there.

Soon after his arrival, he caught cold and had two illnesses one after the other, enteric fever
and inflammation of the lungs. At one time his condition was so bad that the doctors had hardly
any hope that he would ever rise from his bed again. Despite the fact that his temperature
went up very high, he was conscious all the time; he dictated some reflections every day, and
deliberately prepared for death.

The whole family was with him, and we all took turns in helping to nurse him. I look back with
pleasure on the nights when it fell to me to be on duty by him, and I sat in the balcony by
the open window, listening to his breathing and every sound in his room. My chief duty, as
the strongest of the family, was to lift him up while the sheets were being changed. When they
were making the bed, I had to hold him in my arms like a child.

I remember how my muscles quivered one day with the exertion. He looked at me with astonishment
and said:

"You surely don't find me heavy? What nonsense!"

I thought of the day when he had given me a bad time at riding in the woods as a boy, and kept
asking, "You're not tired?"

Another time during the same illness he wanted me to carry him down-stairs in my arms by the
winding stone staircase.

"Pick me up as they do a baby and carry me."

He had not a grain of fear that I might stumble and kill him. It was all I could do to insist
on his being carried down in an arm-chair by three of us.

Was my father afraid of death?

It is impossible to answer the question in one word. With his tough constitution and physical
strength, he always instinctively fought not only against death, but against old age. Till
the last year of his life he never gave in, but always did everything for himself and even
rode on horseback.

To suppose, therefore, that he had no instinctive fear of death is out of the question. He
had that fear, and in a very high degree, but he was constantly fighting to overcome it.

Did he succeed?

I can answer definitely yes. During his illness he talked a great deal of death and prepared
himself for it firmly and deliberately. When he felt that he was getting weaker, he wished
to say good-by to everybody, and he called us all separately to his bedside, one after the
other, and gave his last words of advice to each. He was so weak that he spoke in a half-whisper,
and when he had said good-by to one, he had to rest for a while and collect his strength for
the rest.

When my turn came, he said as nearly as I can remember:

"You are still young and strong and tossed by storms of passion. You have not therefore yet
been able to think over the chief questions of life. But this stage will pass. I am sure of
it. When the time comes, believe me, you will find the truth in the teachings of the Gospel.
I am dying peacefully simply because I have come to know that teaching and believe in it. May
God grant you this knowledge soon! Good-by."

I kissed his hand and left the room quietly. When I got to the front door, I rushed to a lonely
stone tower, and there sobbed my heart out in the darkness like a child. Looking round at last,
I saw that some one else was sitting on the staircase near me, also crying.

So I said farewell to my father years before his death, and the memory of it is dear to me,
for I know that if I had seen him before his death at Astapova he would have said just the
same to me.

To return to the question of death, I will say that so far from being afraid of it, in his
last days he often desired it; he was more interested in it than afraid of it. This "greatest
of mysteries" interested him to such a degree that his interest came near to love. How eagerly
he listened to accounts of the death of his friends, Turgenieff, Gay, Leskof, [23] Zhemtchuzhnikof
[24]; and others! He inquired after the smallest matters; no detail, however trifling in appearance,
was without its interest and importance to him.

His "Circle of Reading," November 7, the day he died, is devoted entirely to thoughts on death.

"Life is a dream, death is an awakening," he wrote, while in expectation of that awakening.

Apropos of the "Circle of Reading," I cannot refrain from relating a characteristic incident
which I was told by one of my sisters.

When my father had made up his mind to compile that collection of the sayings of the wise,
to which he gave the name of "Circle of Reading," he told one of his friends about it.

A few days afterward this friend came to see him again, and at once told him that he and his
wife had been thinking over his scheme for the new book and had come to the conclusion that
he ought to call it "For Every Day," instead of "Circle of Reading."

To this my father replied that he preferred the title "Circle of Reading" because the word
"circle" suggested the idea of continuous reading, which was what he meant to express by the title.

Half an hour later the friend came across the room to him and repeated exactly the same remark
again. This time my father made no reply. In the evening, when the friend was preparing to
go home, as he was saying good-by to my father, he held his hand in his and began once more:

"Still, I must tell you, Lyoff Nikolaievich, that I and my wife have been thinking it over,
and we have come to the conclusion," and so on, word for word the same.

"No, no, I want to die--to die as soon as possible," groaned my father when he had seen the
friend off.

"Isn't it all the same whether it's 'Circle of Reading' or 'For Every Day'? No, it's time for
me to die: I cannot live like this any longer."

And, after all, in the end, one of the editions of the sayings of the wise was called "For
Every Day" instead of "Circle of Reading."

"Ah, my dear, ever since this Mr. ---- turned up, I really don't know which of Lyoff Nikolaievich's
writings are by Lyoff Nikolaievich and which are by Mr. ----!" murmured our old friend, the
pure-hearted and far from malicious Marya Alexandrovna Schmidt.

This sort of intrusion into my father's work as an author bore, in the "friend's" language,
the modest title of "corrections beforehand," and there is no doubt that Marya Alexandrovna
was right, for no one will ever know where what my father wrote ends and where his concessions
to Mr. ----'s persistent "corrections beforehand" begin, all the more as this careful adviser
had the forethought to arrange that when my father answered his letters he was always to return
him the letters they were answers to.[25]

Besides the desire for death that my father displayed, in the last years of his life he cherished
another dream, which he made no secret of his hope of realizing, and that was the desire to
suffer for his convictions. The first impulse in this direction was given him by the persecution
on the part of the authorities to which, during his lifetime, many of his friends and fellow-thinkers
were subjected.

When he heard of any one being put in jail or deported for disseminating his writings, he was
so disturbed about it that one was really sorry for him. I remember my arrival at Yasnaya some
days after Gusef's arrest.[26] I stayed two days with my father, and heard of nothing but Gusef.
As if there were nobody in the world but Gusef! I must confess that, sorry as I was for Gusef,
who was shut up at the time in the local prison at Krapivna, I harbored a most wicked feeling
of resentment at my father's paying so little attention to me and the rest of those about him
and being so absorbed in the thought of Gusef.

I willingly acknowledge that I was wrong in entertaining this narrow-minded feeling. If I had
entered fully into what my father was feeling, I should have seen this at the time.

As far back as 1896, in consequence of the arrest of a doctor, Miss N----, in Tula, my father
wrote a long letter to Muravyof, the Minister of Justice, in which he spoke of the "unreasonableness,
uselessness, and cruelty of the measures taken by the Government against those who disseminate
these forbidden writings," and begged him to "direct the measures taken to punish or intimidate
the perpetrators of the evil, or to put an end to it, against the man whom you regard as the
real instigator of it... all the more, as I assure you beforehand, that I shall continue without
ceasing till my death to do what the Government considers evil and what I consider my sacred
duty before God."

As every one knows, neither this challenge nor the others that followed it led to any result,
and the arrests and deportations of those associated with him still went on.

My father felt himself morally responsible toward all those who suffered on his account, and
every year new burdens were laid on his conscience.

MASHA'S DEATH

As I reach the description of the last days of my father's life, I must once more make it clear
that what I write is based only on the personal impressions I received in my periodical visits
to Yasnaya Polyana.

Unfortunately, I have no rich shorthand material to rely on, such as Gusef and Bulgakof had
for their memoirs, and more especially Dushan Petrovitch Makowicki, who is preparing, I am
told, a big and conscientious work, full of truth and interest.

In November, 1906, my sister Masha died of inflammation of the lungs. It is a curious thing
that she vanished out of life with just as little commotion as she had passed through it. Evidently
this is the lot of all the pure in heart.

No one was particularly astonished by her death. I remember that when I received the telegram,
I felt no surprise. It seemed perfectly natural to me. Masha had married a kinsman of ours,
Prince Obolenski; she lived on her own estate at Pirogovo, twenty-one miles from us, and spent
half the year with her husband at Yasnaya. She was very delicate and had constant illnesses.

When I arrived at Yasnaya the day after her death, I was aware of an atmosphere of exaltation
and prayerful emotion about the whole family, and it was then I think for the first time that
I realized the full grandeur and beauty of death.

I definitely felt that by her death Masha, so far from having gone away from us, had come nearer
to us, and had been, as it were, welded to us forever in a way that she never could have been
during her lifetime.

I observed the same frame of mind in my father. He went about silent and woebegone, summoning
all his strength to battle with his own sorrow; but I never heard him utter a murmur of a complaint,
only words of tender emotion. When the coffin was carried to the church he changed his clothes
and went with the cortege. When he reached the stone pillars he stopped us, said farewell to
the departed, and walked home along the avenue. I looked after him and watched him walk away
across the wet, thawing snow with his short, quick old man's steps, turning his toes out at
a sharp angle, as he always did, and never once looking round.

My sister Masha had held a position of great importance in my father's life and in the life
of the whole family. Many a time in the last few years have we had occasion to think of her
and to murmur sadly: "If only Masha had been with us! If only Masha had not died!"

In order to explain the relations between Masha and my father I must turn back a considerable
way. There was one distinguishing and, at first sight, peculiar trait in my father's character,
due perhaps to the fact that he grew up without a mother, and that was that all exhibitions
of tenderness were entirely foreign to him.

I say "tenderness" in contradistinction to heartiness. Heartiness he had and in a very high degree.

His description of the death of my Uncle Nikolai is characteristic in this connection. In a
letter to his other brother, Sergei Nikolayevitch, in which he described the last day of his
brother's life, my father tells how he helped him to undress.

"He submitted, and became a different man.... He had a word of praise for everybody, and said
to me, 'Thanks, my friend.' You understand the significance of the words as between us two."

It is evident that in the language of the Tolstoy brothers the phrase "my friend" was an expression
of tenderness beyond which imagination could not go. The words astonished my father even on
the lips of his dying brother.

During all his lifetime I never received any mark of tenderness from him whatever.

He was not fond of kissing children, and when he did so in saying good morning or good night,
he did it merely as a duty.

It is therefore easy to understand that he did not provoke any display of tenderness toward
himself, and that nearness and dearness with him were never accompanied by any outward manifestations.

It would never have come into my head, for instance, to walk up to my father and kiss him or
to stroke his hand. I was partly prevented also from that by the fact that I always looked
up to him with awe, and his spiritual power, his greatness, prevented me from seeing in him
the mere man--the man who was so plaintive and weary at times, the feeble old man who so much
needed warmth and rest.

The only person who could give him that warmth was Masha.

She would go up to him, stroke his hand, caress him, and say something affectionate, and you
could see that he liked it, was happy, and even responded in kind. It was as if he became a
different man with her. Why was it that Masha was able to do this, while no one else even dared
to try? If any other of us had done it, it would have seemed unnatural, but Masha could do
it with perfect simplicity and sincerity.

I do not mean to say that others about my father loved him less than Masha; not at all; but
the display of love for him was never so warm and at the same time so natural with any one
else as with her.

So that with Masha's death my father was deprived of this natural source of warmth, which,
with advancing years, had become more and more of a necessity for him.

Another and still greater power that she possessed was her remarkably delicate and sensitive
conscience. This trait in her was still dearer to my father than her caresses.

How good she was at smoothing away all misunderstandings! How she always stood up for those
who were found any fault with, justly or unjustly! It was all the same to her. Masha could
reconcile everybody and everything.

During the last years of his life my father's health perceptibly grew worse. Several times
he had the most sudden and inexplicable sort of fainting fits, from which he used to recover
the next day, but completely lost his memory for a time.

Seeing my brother Andrei's children, who were staying at Yasnaya, in the zala one day, he asked
with some surprise, "Whose children are these?" Meeting my wife, he said, "Don't be offended,
my dear; I know that I am very fond of you, but I have quite forgotten who you are"; and when
he went up to the zala after one of these fainting fits, he looked round with an astonished
air and said, "Where's my brother Nitenka." Nitenka had died fifty years before.

The day following all traces of the attack would disappear.

During one of these fainting fits my brother Sergei, in undressing my father, found a little
note-book on him. He put it in his own pocket, and next day, when he came to see my father,
he handed it back to him, telling him that he had not read it.

"There would have been no harm in YOUR seeing it," said my father, as he took it back.

This little diary in which he wrote down his most secret thoughts and prayers was kept "for
himself alone," and he never showed it to any one. I saw it after my father's death. It is
impossible to read it without tears.

It is curious that the sudden decay of my father's memory displayed itself only in the matter
of real facts and people. He was entirely unaffected in his literary work, and everything that
he wrote down to the last days of his life is marked by his characteristic logicalness and
force. It may be that the reason he forgot the details of real life was because he was too
deeply absorbed in his abstract work.

My wife was at Yasnaya Polyana in October, and when she came home she told me that there was
something wrong there. "Your mother is nervous and hysterical; your father is in a silent and
gloomy frame of mind."

I was very busy with my office work, but made up my mind to devote my first free day to going
and seeing my father and mother.

When I got to Yasnaya, my father had already left it.

I paid Aunt Masha a visit some little time after my father's funeral. We sat together in her
comfortable little cell, and she repeated to me once more in detail the oft-repeated story
of my father's last visit to her.

"He sat in that very arm-chair where you are sitting now, and how he cried!" she said.

"When Sasha arrived with her girl friend, they set to work studying this map of Russia and
planning out a route to the Caucasus. Lyovotchka sat there thoughtful and melancholy.

"'Never mind, Papa; it'll be all right,' said Sasha, trying to encourage him.

"'Ah, you women, you women!' answered her father, bitterly. 'How can it ever be all right?'

"I so much hoped that he would settle down here; it would just have suited him. And it was
his own idea, too; he had even taken a cottage in the village," Aunt Masha sadly recalled.

"When he left me to go back to the hotel where he was staying, it seemed to me that he was
rather calmer.

"When he said good-by, he even made some joke about his having come to the wrong door.

"I certainly would never have imagined that he would go away again that same night."

It was a grievous trial for Aunt Masha when the old confessor Iosif, who was her spiritual
director, forbade her to pray for her dead brother because he had been excommunicated. She
was too broad-minded to be able to reconcile herself to the harsh intolerance of the church,
and for a time she was honestly indignant. Another priest to whom she applied also refused
her request.

Marya Nikolayevna could not bring herself to disobey her spiritual fathers, but at the same
time she felt that she was not really obeying their injunction, for she prayed for him all
the same, in thought, if not in words.

There is no knowing how her internal discord would have ended if her father confessor, evidently
understanding the moral torment she was suffering, had not given her permission to pray for
her brother, but only in her cell and in solitude, so as not to lead others astray.

MY FATHER'S WILL. CONCLUSION

