Everybody answers "No!" I knew you would answer no. And now, gentlemen who have laughed at
my pretension to discover a profession, say, have I not? I have laid my finger upon the spot
where the social deficit exists. I have shown that we labor under a want; and when the world
wants, do we not know that a man will step forth to fill the vacant space that Fate has left
for him? Pass we now to the--

SECOND PROFESSION.

This profession, too, is a great, lofty and exceptional one, and discovered by me considering
these things, and deeply musing upon the necessities of society. Nor let honorable gentlemen
imagine that I am enabled to offer them in this profession, more than any other, a promise
of what is called future glory, deathless fame, and so forth. All that I say is, that I can
put young men in the way of making a comfortable livelihood, and leaving behind them, not a
name, but what is better, a decent maintenance to their children. Fitz-Boodle is as good a
name as any in England. General Fitz-Boodle, who, in Marlborough's time, and in conjunction
with the famous Van Slaap, beat the French in the famous action of Vischzouchee, near Mardyk,
in Holland, on the 14th of February, 1709, is promised an immortality upon his tomb in Westminster
Abbey; but he died of apoplexy, deucedly in debt, two years afterwards: and what after that
is the use of a name?

No, no; the age of chivalry is past. Take the twenty-four first men who come into the club,
and ask who they are, and how they made their money? There's Woolsey-Sackville: his father
was Lord Chancellor, and sat on the woolsack, whence he took his title; his grandfather dealt
in coal-sacks, and not in woolsacks,--small coal-sacks, dribbling out little supplies of black
diamonds to the poor. Yonder comes Frank Leveson, in a huge broad-brimmed hat, his shirt-cuffs
turned up to his elbows. Leveson is as gentlemanly a fellow as the world contains, and if he
has a fault, is perhaps too finikin. Well, you fancy him related to the Sutherland family:
nor, indeed, does honest Frank deny it; but entre nous, my good sir, his father was an attorney,
and his grandfather a bailiff in Chancery Lane, bearing a name still older than that of Leveson,
namely, Levy. So it is that this confounded equality grows and grows, and has laid the good
old nobility by the heels. Look at that venerable Sir Charles Kitely, of Kitely Park: he is
interested about the Ashantees, and is just come from Exeter Hall. Kitely discounted bills
in the City in the year 1787, and gained his baronetcy by a loan to the French princes. All
these points of history are perfectly well known; and do you fancy the world cares? Psha! Profession
is no disgrace to a man: be what you like, provided you succeed. If Mr. Fauntleroy could come
to life with a million of money, you and I would dine with him: you know we would; for why
should we be better than our neighbors?

Put, then, out of your head the idea that this or that profession is unworthy of you: take
any that may bring you profit, and thank him that puts you in the way of being rich.

The profession I would urge (upon a person duly qualified to undertake it) has, I confess,
at the first glance, something ridiculous about it; and will not appear to young ladies so
romantic as the calling of a gallant soldier, blazing with glory, gold lace, and vermilion
coats; or a dear delightful clergyman, with a sweet blue eye, and a pocket-handkerchief scented
charmingly with lavender-water. The profession I allude to WILL, I own, be to young women disagreeable,
to sober men trivial, to great stupid moralists unworthy.

But mark my words for it, that in the religious world (I have once or twice, by mistake no
doubt, had the honor of dining in "serious" houses, and can vouch for the fact that the dinners
there are of excellent quality)--in the serious world, in the great mercantile world, among
the legal community (notorious feeders), in every house in town (except some half-dozen which
can afford to do without such aid), the man I propose might speedily render himself indispensable.

Does the reader now begin to take? Have I hinted enough for him that he may see with eagle
glance the immense beauty of the profession I am about to unfold to him? We have all seen Gunter
and Chevet; Fregoso, on the Puerta del Sol (a relation of the ex-Minister Calomarde), is a
good purveyor enough for the benighted olla-eaters of Madrid; nor have I any fault to find
with Guimard, a Frenchman, who has lately set up in the Toledo, at Naples, where he furnishes
people with decent food. It has given me pleasure, too, in walking about London--in the Strand,
in Oxford Street, and elsewhere, to see fournisseurs and comestible-merchants newly set up.
Messrs. Morel have excellent articles in their warehouses; Fortnum and Mason are known to most
of my readers.

But what is not known, what is wanted, what is languished for in England is a DINNER-MASTER,--a
gentleman who is not a provider of meat or wine, like the parties before named, who can have
no earthly interest in the price of truffled turkeys or dry champagne beyond that legitimate
interest which he may feel for his client, and which leads him to see that the latter is not
cheated by his tradesmen. For the dinner-giver is almost naturally an ignorant man. How in
mercy's name can Mr. Serjeant Snorter, who is all day at Westminster, or in chambers, know
possibly the mysteries, the delicacy, of dinner-giving? How can Alderman Pogson know anything
beyond the fact that venison is good with currant jelly, and that he likes lots of green fat
with his turtle? Snorter knows law, Pogson is acquainted with the state of the tallow-market;
but what should he know of eating, like you and me, who have given up our time to it? (I say
ME only familiarly, for I have only reached so far in the science as to know that I know nothing.)
But men there are, gifted individuals, who have spent years of deep thought--not merely intervals
of labor, but hours of study every day--over the gormandizing science,--who, like alchemists,
have let their fortunes go, guinea by guinea, into the all-devouring pot,--who, ruined as they
sometimes are, never get a guinea by chance but they will have a plate of pease in May with
it, or a little feast of ortolans, or a piece of Glo'ster salmon, or one more flask from their
favorite claret-bin.

It is not the ruined gastronomist that I would advise a person to select as his TABLE-MASTER;
for the opportunities of peculation would be too great in a position of such confidence--such
complete abandonment of one man to another. A ruined man would be making bargains with the
tradesmen. They would offer to cash bills for him, or send him opportune presents of wine,
which he could convert into money, or bribe him in one way or another. Let this be done, and
the profession of table-master is ruined. Snorter and Pogson may almost as well order their
own dinners, as be at the mercy of a "gastronomic agent" whose faith is not beyond all question.

A vulgar mind, in reply to these remarks regarding the gastronomic ignorance of Snorter and
Pogson, might say, "True, these gentlemen know nothing of household economy, being occupied
with other more important business elsewhere. But what are their wives about? Lady Pogson in
Harley Street has nothing earthly to do but to mind her poodle, and her mantua-maker's and
housekeeper's bills. Mrs. Snorter in Belford Place, when she has taken her drive in the Park
with the young ladies, may surely have time to attend to her husband's guests and preside over
the preparations of his kitchen, as she does worthily at his hospitable mahogany." To this
I answer, that a man who expects a woman to understand the philosophy of dinner-giving, shows
the strongest evidence of a low mind. He is unjust towards that lovely and delicate creature,
woman, to suppose that she heartily understands and cares for what she eats and drinks. No:
taken as a rule, women have no real appetites. They are children in the gormandizing way; loving
sugar, sops, tarts, trifles, apricot-creams, and such gewgaws. They would take a sip of Malmsey,
and would drink currant-wine just as happily, if that accursed liquor were presented to them
by the butler. Did you ever know a woman who could lay her fair hand upon her gentle heart
and say on her conscience that she preferred dry sillery to sparkling champagne? Such a phenomenon
does not exist. They are not made for eating and drinking; or, if they make a pretence to it,
become downright odious. Nor can they, I am sure, witness the preparations of a really great
repast without a certain jealousy. They grudge spending money (ask guards, coachmen, inn-waiters,
whether this be not the case). They will give their all, heaven bless them to serve a son,
a grandson, or a dear relative, but they have not the heart to pay for small things magnificently.
They are jealous of good dinners, and no wonder. I have shown in a former discourse how they
are jealous of smoking, and other personal enjoyments of the male. I say, then, that Lady Pogson
or Mrs. Snorter can never conduct their husbands' table properly. Fancy either of them consenting
to allow a calf to be stewed down into gravy for one dish, or a dozen hares to be sacrificed
to a single puree of game, or the best Madeira to be used for a sauce, or half a dozen of champagne
to boil a ham in. They will be for bringing a bottle of Marsala in place of the old particular,
or for having the ham cooked in water. But of these matters--of kitchen philosophy--I have
no practical or theoretic knowledge; and must beg pardon if, only understanding the goodness
of a dish when cooked, I may have unconsciously made some blunder regarding the preparation.

Let it, then, be set down as an axiom, without further trouble of demonstration, that a woman
is a bad dinner-caterer; either too great and simple for it, or too mean--I don't know which
it is; and gentlemen, according as they admire or contemn the sex, may settle that matter their
own way. In brief, the mental constitution of lovely woman is such that she cannot give a great
dinner. It must be done by a man. It can't be done by an ordinary man, because he does not
understand it. Vain fool! and he sends off to the pastry-cook in Great Russell Street or Baker
Street, he lays on a couple of extra waiters (green-grocers in the neighborhood), he makes
a great pother with his butler in the cellar, and fancies he has done the business.

Bon Dieu! Who has not been at those dinners?--those monstrous exhibitions of the pastry-cook's
art? Who does not know those made dishes with the universal sauce to each: fricandeaux, sweet-breads,
damp dumpy cutlets, &c., seasoned with the compound of grease, onions, bad port-wine, cayenne
pepper, curry-powder (Warren's blacking, for what I know, but the taste is always the same)--there
they lie in the old corner dishes, the poor wiry Moselle and sparkling Burgundy in the ice-coolers,
and the old story of white and brown soup, turbot, little smelts, boiled turkey, saddle-of-mutton,
and so forth? "Try a little of that fricandeau," says Mrs. Snorter, with a kind smile. "You'll
find it, I think, very nice." Be sure it has come in a green tray from Great Russell Street.
"Mr. Fitz-Boodle, you have been in Germany," cries Snorter, knowingly; "taste the hock, and
tell me what you think of THAT."

How should he know better, poor benighted creature; or she, dear good soul that she is? If
they would have a leg-of-mutton and an apple-pudding, and a glass of sherry and port (or simple
brandy-and-water called by its own name) after dinner, all would be very well; but they must
shine, they must dine as their neighbors. There is no difference in the style of dinners in
London; people with five hundred a year treat you exactly as those of five thousand. They WILL
have their Moselle or hock, their fatal side-dishes brought in the green trays from the pastry-cook's.

Well, there is no harm done; not as regards the dinner-givers at least, though the dinner-eaters
may have to suffer somewhat; it only shows that the former are hospitably inclined, and wish
to do the very best in their power,--good honest fellows! If they do wrong, how can they help
it? they know no better.

And now, is it not as clear as the sun at noonday, that A WANT exists in London for a superintendent
of the table--a gastronomic agent--a dinner-master, as I have called him before? A man of such
a profession would be a metropolitan benefit; hundreds of thousands of people of the respectable
sort, people in white waistcoats, would thank him daily. Calculate how many dinners are given
in the City of London, and calculate the numbers of benedictions that "the Agency" might win.

And as no doubt the observant man of the world has remarked that the freeborn Englishman of
the respectable class is, of all others, the most slavish and truckling to a lord; that there
is no fly-blown peer but he is pleased to have him at his table, proud beyond measure to call
him by his surname (without the lordly prefix); and that those lords whom he does not know,
he yet (the freeborn Englishman) takes care to have their pedigrees and ages by heart from
his world-bible, the "Peerage:" as this is an indisputable fact, and as it is in this particular
class of Britons that our agent must look to find clients, I need not say it is necessary that
the agent should be as high-born as possible, and that he should be able to tack, if possible,
an honorable or some other handle to his respectable name. He must have it on his professional
card--

           THE HONORABLE GEORGE GORMAND GOBBLETON,

               Apician Chambers, Pall Mall.

     Or,

            SIR AUGUSTUS CARVER CRAMLEY CRAMLEY,

         Amphitryonic Council Office, Swallow Street.

or, in some such neat way, Gothic letters on a large handsome crockeryware card, with possibly
a gilt coat-of-arms and supporters, or the blood-red hand of baronetcy duly displayed. Depend
on it plenty of guineas will fall in it, and that Gobbleton's supporters will support him comfortably
enough.

For this profession is not like that of the auctioneer, which I take to be a far more noble
one, because more varied and more truthful; but in the Agency case, a little humbug at least
is necessary. A man cannot be a successful agent by the mere force of his simple merit or genius
in eating and drinking. He must of necessity impose upon the vulgar to a certain degree. He
must be of that rank which will lead them naturally to respect him, otherwise they might be
led to jeer at his profession; but let a noble exercise it, and bless your soul, all the "Court
Guide" is dumb!

He will then give out in a manly and somewhat pompous address what has before been mentioned,
namely, that he has seen the fatal way in which the hospitality of England has been perverted
hitherto, accapare'd by a few cooks with green trays. (He must use a good deal of French in
his language, for that is considered very gentlemanlike by vulgar people.) He will take a set
of chambers in Canton Gardens, which will be richly though severely furnished, and the door
of which will be opened by a French valet (he MUST be a Frenchman, remember), who will say,
on letting Mr. Snorter or Sir Benjamin Pogson in, that "MILOR is at home." Pogson will then
be shown into a library furnished with massive bookcases, containing all the works on cookery
and wines (the titles of them) in all the known languages in the world. Any books, of course,
will do, as you will have them handsomely bound, and keep them under plate-glass. On a side-table
will be little sample-bottles of wine, a few truffles on a white porcelain saucer, a prodigious
strawberry or two, perhaps, at the time when such fruit costs much money. On the library will
be busts marked Ude, Careme, Bechamel, in marble (never mind what heads, of course); and, perhaps,
on the clock should be a figure of the Prince of Conde's cook killing himself because the fish
had not arrived in time: there may be a wreath of immortelles on the figure to give it a more
decidedly Frenchified air. The walls will be of a dark rich paper, hung round with neat gilt
frames, containing plans of menus of various great dinners, those of Cambaceres, Napoleon,
Louis XIV., Louis XVIII., Heliogabalus if you like, each signed by the respective cook.

After the stranger has looked about him at these things, which he does not understand in the
least, especially the truffles, which look like dirty potatoes, you will make your appearance,
dressed in a dark dress, with one handsome enormous gold chain, and one large diamond ring;
a gold snuff-box, of course, which you will thrust into the visitor's paw before saying a word.
You will be yourself a portly grave man, with your hair a little bald and gray. In fact, in
this, as in all other professions, you had best try to look as like Canning as you can.

When Pogson has done sneezing with the snuff, you will say to him, "Take a fauteuil. I have
the honor of addressing Sir Benjamin Pogson, I believe?" And then you will explain to him your
system.

This, of course, must vary with every person you address. But let us lay down a few of the
heads of a plan which may be useful, or may be modified infinitely, or may be cast aside altogether,
just as circumstances dictate. After all I am not going to turn gastronomic agent, and speak
only for the benefit perhaps of the very person who is reading this:--

"SYNOPSIS OF THE GASTRONOMIC AGENCY OF THE HONORABLE GEORGE GOBBLETON.

"The Gastronomic Agent having traversed Europe, and dined with the best society of the world,
has been led naturally, as a patriot, to turn his thoughts homeward, and cannot but deplore
the lamentable ignorance regarding gastronomy displayed in a country for which Nature has done
almost everything.

"But it is ever singularly thus. Inherent ignorance belongs to man; and The Agent, in his Continental
travels, has always remarked, that the countries most fertile in themselves were invariably
worse tilled than those more barren. The Italians and the Spaniards leave their fields to Nature,
as we leave our vegetables, fish, and meat. And, heavens! what richness do we fling away, what
dormant qualities in our dishes do we disregard,--what glorious gastronomic crops (if the Agent
may be permitted the expression)--what glorious gastronomic crops do we sacrifice, allowing
our goodly meats and fishes to lie fallow! 'Chance,' it is said by an ingenious historian,
who, having been long a secretary in the East India House, must certainly have had access to
the best information upon Eastern matters--'Chance,' it is said by Mr. Charles Lamb, 'which
burnt down a Chinaman's house, with a litter of sucking-pigs that were unable to escape from
the interior, discovered to the world the excellence of roast-pig.' Gunpowder, we know, was
invented by a similar fortuity." [The reader will observe that my style in the supposed character
of a Gastronomic Agent is purposely pompous and loud.] "So, 'tis said, was printing,--so glass.--We
should have drunk our wine poisoned with the villanous odor of the borachio, had not some Eastern
merchants, lighting their fires in the Desert, marked the strange composition which now glitters
on our sideboards, and holds the costly produce of our vines.

"We have spoken of the natural riches of a country. Let the reader think but for one moment
of the gastronomic wealth of our country of England, and he will be lost in thankful amazement
as he watches the astonishing riches poured out upon us from Nature's bounteous cornucopia!
Look at our fisheries!--the trout and salmon tossing in our brawling streams; the white and
full-breasted turbot struggling in the mariner's net; the purple lobster lured by hopes of
greed into his basket-prison, which he quits only for the red ordeal of the pot. Look at whitebait,
great heavens!--look at whitebait, and a thousand frisking, glittering, silvery things besides,
which the nymphs of our native streams bear kindly to the deities of our kitchens--our kitchens
such as they are.

"And though it may be said that other countries produce the freckle-backed salmon and the dark
broad-shouldered turbot; though trout frequent many a stream besides those of England, and
lobsters sprawl on other sands than ours; yet, let it be remembered, that our native country
possesses these altogether, while other lands only know them separately; that, above all, whitebait
is peculiarly our country's--our city's own! Blessings and eternal praises be on it, and, of
course, on brown bread and butter! And the Briton should further remember, with honest pride
and thankfulness, the situation of his capital, of London: the lordly turtle floats from the
sea into the stream, and from the stream to the city; the rapid fleets of all the world se
donnent rendezvous in the docks of our silvery Thames; the produce of our coasts and provincial
cities, east and west, is borne to us on the swift lines of lightning railroads. In a word--and
no man but one who, like The Agent, has travelled Europe over, can appreciate the gift--there
is no city on earth's surface so well supplied with fish as London!

"With respect to our meats, all praise is supererogatory. Ask the wretched hunter of chevreuil,
the poor devourer of rehbraten, what they think of the noble English haunch, that, after bounding
in the Park of Knole or Windsor, exposes its magnificent flank upon some broad silver platter
at our tables? It is enough to say of foreign venison, that THEY ARE OBLIGED TO LARD IT. Away!
ours is the palm of roast; whether of the crisp mutton that crops the thymy herbage of our
downs, or the noble ox who revels on lush Althorpian oil-cakes. What game is like to ours?
Mans excels us in poultry, 'tis true; but 'tis only in merry England that the partridge has
a flavor, that the turkey can almost se passer de truffes, that the jolly juicy goose can be
eaten as he deserves.

"Our vegetables, moreover, surpass all comment; Art (by the means of glass) has wrung fruit
out of the bosom of Nature, such as she grants to no other clime. And if we have no vineyards
on our hills, we have gold to purchase their best produce. Nature, and enterprise that masters
Nature, have done everything for our land.

"But, with all these prodigious riches in our power, is it not painful to reflect how absurdly
we employ them? Can we say that we are in the habit of dining well? Alas, no! and The Agent,
roaming o'er foreign lands, and seeing how, with small means and great ingenuity and perseverance,
great ends were effected, comes back sadly to his own country, whose wealth he sees absurdly
wasted, whose energies are misdirected, and whose vast capabilities are allowed to lie idle.
. . ." [Here should follow what I have only hinted at previously, a vivid and terrible picture
of the degradation of our table.] ". . . Oh, for a master spirit, to give an impetus to the
land, to see its great power directed in the right way, and its wealth not squandered or hidden,
but nobly put out to interest and spent!

"The Agent dares not hope to win that proud station--to be the destroyer of a barbarous system
wallowing in abusive prodigality--to become a dietetic reformer--the Luther of the table.

"But convinced of the wrongs which exist, he will do his humble endeavor to set them right,
and to those who know that they are ignorant (and this is a vast step to knowledge) he offers
his counsels, his active co-operation, his frank and kindly sympathy. The Agent's qualifications
are these:-- '1. He is of one of the best families in England; and has in himself, or through
his ancestors, been accustomed to good living for centuries. In the reign of Henry V., his
maternal great-great-grandfather, Roger de Gobylton' [the name may be varied, of course, or
the king's reign, or the dish invented], 'was the first who discovered the method of roasting
a peacock whole, with his tail-feathers displayed; and the dish was served to the two kings
at Rouen. Sir Walter Cramley, in Elizabeth's reign, produced before her Majesty, when at Killingworth
Castle, mackerel with the famous GOOSEBERRY SAUCE, &c.'

"2. He has, through life, devoted himself to no other study than that of the table: and has
visited to that end the courts of all the monarchs of Europe: taking the receipts of the cooks,
with whom he lives on terms of intimate friendship, often at enormous expense to himself.

"3. He has the same acquaintance with all the vintages of the Continent; having passed the
autumn of 1811 (the comet year) on the great Weinberg of Johannisberg; being employed similarly
at Bordeaux, in 1834; at Oporto, in 1820; and at Xeres de la Frontera, with his excellent friends,
Duff, Gordon and Co., the year after. He travelled to India and back in company with fourteen
pipes of Madeira (on board of the Samuel Snob' East Indiaman, Captain Scuttler), and spent
the vintage season in the island, with unlimited powers of observation granted to him by the
great houses there.

"4. He has attended Mr. Groves of Charing Cross, and Mr. Giblett of Bond Street, in a course
of purchases of fish and meat; and is able at a glance to recognize the age of mutton, the
primeness of beef, the firmness and freshness of fish of all kinds.

"5. He has visited the parks, the grouse-manors, and the principal gardens of England, in a
similar professional point of view."

The Agent then, through his subordinates, engages to provide gentlemen who are about to give
dinner-parties--"1. With cooks to dress the dinners; a list of which gentlemen he has by him,
and will recommend none who are not worthy of the strictest confidence.

"2. With a menu for the table, according to the price which the Amphitryon chooses to incur.

"3. He will, through correspondence, with the various fournisseurs of the metropolis, provide
them with viands, fruit, wine, &c., sending to Paris, if need be, where he has a regular correspondence
with Messrs. Chevet.

"4. He has a list of dexterous table-waiters (all answering to the name of John for fear of
mistakes, the butler's name to be settled according to pleasure), and would strongly recommend
that the servants of the house should be locked in the back-kitchen or servants' hall during
the time the dinner takes place.

"5. He will receive and examine all the accounts of the fournisseurs,--of course pledging his
honor as a gentleman not to receive one shilling of paltry gratification from the tradesmen
he employs, but to see that the bills are more moderate, and their goods of better quality,
than they would provide to any person of less experience than himself.

"6. His fee for superintending a dinner will be five guineas: and The Agent entreats his clients
to trust ENTIRELY to him and his subordinates for the arrangement of the repast,--NOT TO THINK
of inserting dishes of their own invention, or producing wine from their own cellars, as he
engages to have it brought in the best order, and fit for immediate drinking. Should the Amphitryon,
however, desire some particular dish or wine, he must consult The Agent in the first case by
writing, in the second, by sending a sample to The Agent's chambers. For it is manifest that
the whole complexion of a dinner may be altered by the insertion of a single dish; and, therefore,
parties will do well to mention their wishes on the first interview with The Agent. He cannot
be called upon to recompose his bill of fare, except at great risk to the ensemble of the dinner
and enormous inconvenience to himself.

"7. The Agent will be at home for consultation from ten o'clock until two, earlier if gentlemen
who are engaged at early hours in the City desire to have an interview: and be it remembered,
that a PERSONAL INTERVIEW is always the best: for it is greatly necessary to know not only
the number but the character of the guests whom the Amphitryon proposes to entertain,--whether
they are fond of any particular wine or dish, what is their state of health, rank, style, profession,
&c.

"8. At two o'clock, he will commence his rounds; for as the metropolis is wide, it is clear
that he must be early in the field in some districts. From 2 to 3 he will be in Russell Square
and the neighborhood; 3 to 3 3/4, Harley Street, Portland Place, Cavendish Square, and the
environs; 3 3/4 to 4 1/4, Portman Square, Gloucester Place, Baker Street, &c.; 4 1/4 to 5,
the new district about Hyde Park Terrace; 5 to 5 3/4, St. John's Wood and the Regent's Park.
He will be in Grosvenor Square by 6, and in Belgrave Square, Pimlico, and its vicinity, by
7. Parties there are requested not to dine until 8 o'clock; and The Agent, once for all, peremptorily
announces that he will NOT go to the palace, where it is utterly impossible to serve a good
dinner."

"TO TRADESMEN.

"Every Monday evening during the season the Gastronomic Agent proposes to give a series of
trial-dinners, to which the principal gormands of the metropolis, and a few of The Agent's
most respectable clients, will be invited. Covers will be laid for TEN at nine o'clock precisely.
And as The Agent does not propose to exact a single shilling of profit from their bills, and
as his recommendation will be of infinite value to them, the tradesmen he employs will furnish
the weekly dinner gratis. Cooks will attend (who have acknowledged characters) upon the same
terms. To save trouble, a book will be kept where butchers, poulterers, fishmongers, &c. may
inscribe their names in order, taking it by turns to supply the trial-table. Wine-merchants
will naturally compete every week promiscuously, sending what they consider their best samples,
and leaving with the hall-porter tickets of the prices. Confectionery to be done out of the
house. Fruiterers, market-men, as butchers and poulterers. The Agent's maitre-d'hotel will
give a receipt to each individual for the articles he produces; and let all remember that The
Agent is a VERY KEEN JUDGE, and woe betide those who serve him or his clients ill!

"GEORGE GORMAND GOBBLETON.

"CARLTON GARDENS, June 10, 1842."

Here I have sketched out the heads of such an address as I conceive a gastronomic agent might
put forth; and appeal pretty confidently to the British public regarding its merits and my
own discovery. If this be not a profession--a new one--a feasible one--a lucrative one,--I
don't know what is. Say that a man attends but fifteen dinners daily, that is seventy-five
guineas, or five hundred and fifty pounds weekly, or fourteen thousand three hundred pounds
for a season of six months: and how many of our younger sons have such a capital even? Let,
then, some unemployed gentleman with the requisite qualifications come forward. It will not
be necessary that he should have done all that is stated in the prospectus; but, at any rate,
let him SAY he has: there can't be much harm in an innocent fib of that sort; for the gastronomic
agent must be a sort of dinner-pope, whose opinions cannot be supposed to err.

And as he really will be an excellent judge of eating and drinking, and will bring his whole
mind to bear upon the question, and will speedily acquire an experience which no person out
of the profession can possibly have; and as, moreover, he will be an honorable man, not practising
upon his client in any way, or demanding sixpence beyond his just fee, the world will gain
vastly by the coming forward of such a person,--gain in good dinners, and absolutely save money:
for what is five guineas for a dinner of sixteen? The sum may be gaspille by a cook-wench,
or by one of those abominable before-named pastry-cooks with their green trays.

If any man take up the business, he will invite me, of course, to the Monday dinners. Or does
ingratitude go so far as that a man should forget the author of his good fortune? I believe
it does. Turn we away from the sickening theme!

And now, having concluded my professions, how shall I express my obligations to the discriminating
press of this country for the unanimous applause which hailed my first appearance? It is the
more wonderful, as I pledge my sacred word, I never wrote a document before much longer than
a laundress's bill, or the acceptance of an invitation to dinner. But enough of this egotism:
thanks for praise conferred sound like vanity; gratitude is hard to speak of, and at present
it swells the full heart of

GEORGE SAVAGE FITZ-BOODLE.