Columbus tacked in and out along the Cuban coast; he saw the two mountains--Cristal and Moa;
he explored a harbour to which he gave the name of Puerto del Principe, and an archipelago
which he called the Sea of Nuestra Señora. Each night the fishermen's fires were seen upon
the numerous islands, the inhabitants of which lived upon spiders and huge worms. Several times
the Spaniards landed upon different points of the coast, and there planted the cross as a sign
of taking possession of the country. The natives often spoke to the admiral about a certain
island of Babeque, where gold abounded, and thither Columbus resolved to go, but Martin-Alonzo
Pinzon, the captain of the Pinta, the best sailer of the three ships, was beforehand with him,
and at day-break on the 21st of November, he had completely disappeared from sight. The admiral
was very angry at this separation, his feelings on the subject appearing plainly in his narrative,
where he says, "Pinzon has said and done to me many like things." Continuing his exploration
of the coast of Cuba, Columbus discovered the Bay of Moa, the Point of Mangle, Point Vaez,
and the harbour of Barracoa, but nowhere did he meet with cannibals, although the huts of the
natives were often to be seen adorned with human skulls, a sight which appeared to give great
satisfaction to the islanders on board the fleet. On the following days, they saw the Boma
River, and the caravels, doubling the point of Los Azules, found themselves upon the eastern
part of the island, whose coast they had now reconnoitred for a distance of 375 miles. But
Columbus instead of continuing his route to the south turned off to the east, and on the 5th
of December perceived a large island, called by the natives Bohio. This was Hayti, or San Domingo.

In the evening, the Nina by the admiral's orders, entered a harbour which was named Port Mary;
it is situated at the north-western extremity of the island, and, with the cape near which
it lies, is now called St. Nicholas. The next day the Spaniards discovered a number of headlands,
and an islet, called Tortuga Island. Everywhere on the appearance of the ships, the Indian
canoes took to flight. The island, along which they were now coasting, appeared very large
and very high, from which latter peculiarity it gained, later on, its name of Hayti, which
signifies High Land. The coast was explored by the Spaniards as far as Mosquito Bay; its natural
features, its plains and hills, its plants and the birds which fluttered amongst the beautiful
trees of the island, all recalled to the memory the landscapes of Castille, and for this reason
Columbus named it Hispaniola, or Spanish Island. The inhabitants were extremely timid and distrustful;
they fled away into the interior and no communication could be held with them. Some sailors,
however, succeeded in capturing a young woman, whom they carried on board with them. She was
young and rather pretty. The admiral gave her, besides rings and beads, some clothing, of which
she had great need, and after most generous treatment, he sent her back to shore.

This good conduct had the result of taming the natives, and the next day, when nine of the
sailors, well armed, ventured as far as sixteen miles inland, they were received with respect,
the savages running to them in crowds, and offering them everything which their country produced.
The sailors returned to the ships enchanted with their excursion. The interior of the island
they had found rich in cotton plants, mastic-trees and aloes, while a fine river, named afterwards
the Three Rivers, flowed gently along its limpid course. On December 15th, Columbus again set
sail, and was carried by the wind towards Tortuga Island, upon which he saw a navigable stream
of water, and a valley so beautiful that he called it the Vale of Paradise. The day following,
having tacked into a deep gulf, an Indian was seen who, notwithstanding the violence of the
wind, was skilfully manoeuvring a light canoe. This Indian was invited to come on board, was
loaded with presents by the admiral, and then put on shore again, at one of the harbours of
Hispaniola, now called the Puerto de Paz. This kindness tended to attach the natives to the
admiral, and from that day they came in numbers round the caravels; their king came with them,
a strong, vigorous, and somewhat stout young man of twenty years of age; he was naked, like
his subjects of both sexes, who showed him much respect, but with no appearance of servility.
Columbus ordered royal honours to be rendered to him, and in return, the king, or rather cacique,
informed the admiral that the provinces to the east abounded in gold.

Next day another cacique arrived, offering to place all the treasures of his country at the
service of the Spaniards. He was present at a fête in honour of the Virgin Mary, that Columbus
caused to be celebrated with great pomp on board his vessel, which was gaily dressed with flags
on the occasion. The cacique dined at the admiral's table, apparently enjoying the repast;
after he had himself tasted of the different viands and beverages, he sent the dishes and goblets
to the members of his suite; he had good manners, spoke little, but showed great politeness.
After the feast, he gave the admiral some thin leaves of gold, while Columbus, on his side,
presented him with some coins, upon which were engraved the portraits of Ferdinand and Isabella,
and after explaining to him by signs that these were the representations of the most powerful
sovereigns in the world, he caused the royal banners of Castille to be displayed before the
savage prince. When night fell, the cacique retired, highly delighted with his visit; and on
his departure he was saluted with a salvo of artillery. On the day following, the crews before
quitting this hospitable coast, set up a large cross in the middle of the little town. In issuing
from the gulf formed by Tortuga Island and Hispaniola, they discovered several harbours, capes,
bays, and rivers; at the point of Limbé, a small island which Columbus named St. Thomas, and
finally, an enormous harbour safe and sheltered, hidden between the island and the Bay of Acul,
and to which access was given by a canal surrounded by high mountains covered with trees.

The admiral often disembarked upon this coast, the natives receiving him as an ambassador from
heaven, and imploring him to remain among them. Columbus gave them quantities of little bells,
brass rings, glass beads, and other toys, which they eagerly accepted. A cacique named Guacanagari,
reigning over the province of Marien, sent to the admiral a belt adorned with the figure of
an animal with large ears, of which the nose and tongue were made of beaten gold. Gold appeared
to be abundant in the island, and the natives soon brought a considerable quantity of it to
the strangers. The inhabitants of this part of Hispaniola seemed to be superior in intelligence
and appearance to those of that portion of the island which had been first visited; in the
opinion of Columbus, the paint, red, black, or white, with which the natives covered their
bodies, served to protect them from sunstroke. The huts of these savages were pretty and well
built. Upon Columbus questioning them as to the country which produced gold, they always indicated
one towards the east, a country which they called Cibao, and which the admiral continued to
identify with Cipango or Japan.

On Christmas Day a serious accident occurred to the admiral's caravel, the first damage sustained
in this hitherto prosperous voyage. An inexperienced steersman was at the helm of the Santa-Maria
during an excursion outside the Gulf of St. Thomas; night came on, and he allowed the vessel
to be caught in some currents which threw her upon the rocks; the caravel grounded and her
rudder stuck fast. The admiral, awakened by the shock, ran upon deck; he ordered an anchor
to be fastened forward, by which the ship might warp herself off and so float again. The master
and some of the sailors charged with the execution of this order, jumped into the long boat,
but seized with a sudden panic, they rowed away in haste to the Nina. Meantime the tide fell,
and the Santa-Maria ran further aground; it became necessary to cut away the masts to lighten
her, and soon it was evident that everything on board must be removed to the other ship. The
cacique Guacanagari, quite understanding the dangerous situation of the caravel, came with
his brothers and other relations, accompanied by a great number of the Indians, and helped
in unlading the ship. Thanks to this prince, not a single article of the cargo was stolen,
and during the whole night armed natives kept watch around the stores of provisions.

The next day Guacanagari went on board the Nina, to console the admiral, and to place all his
own possessions at his disposal, at the same time offering him a repast of bread, doe's flesh,
fish, roots, and fruit. Columbus, much moved by these tokens of friendship, formed the design
of founding an establishment on this island. With this purpose in view, he addressed himself
to gain the hearts of the Indians by presents and kindness, and wishing also to give them an
adequate notion of his power, he ordered the discharge of an arquebuse and a small cannon,
of which the reports frightened the poor savages terribly. On December 26th, the Spaniards
commenced the construction of a fort upon this part of the coast, the intention of the admiral
being to leave there a certain number of men, with a year's provision of bread, wine, and seed,
and to give them the long boat belonging to the Santa-Maria. The works at the fort were pushed
forward with rapidity. It was also on the 26th that they received news of the Pinta, which
had been separated from the flotilla since November 21st. The natives announced that she was
at anchor in a river at the extreme point of the island, but a canoe despatched by Guacanagari
returned without having found her. Then Columbus, not wishing to continue his explorations
under the present conditions, since the loss of the Santa-Maria, which could not be floated
again, left him but one caravel, decided to return to Spain, and preparations for the departure
began.

On the 2nd of January Columbus caused his soldiers to act a mimic battle, greatly to the admiration
of the cacique and his subjects. Afterwards the admiral chose out thirty-nine men to form the
garrison of the fortress during his absence, naming Rodrigo de Escovedo as their commander.
The greater part of the cargo of the Santa-Maria was to be left behind with them, for their
year's provision. Amongst these first colonists of the New World were included a writer, an
alguazil, a cooper, a doctor, and a tailor. These Spaniards were charged with the mission of
seeking for gold-mines, and of choosing a suitable site for the building of a town. On the
3rd of January, after solemn leave-takings of the cacique and the new colonists, the Nina weighed
anchor and sailed out of the harbour. An island was soon discovered, having upon it a very
high mountain; to this was given the name of Monte-Christi. Columbus had already sailed for
two days along the coast, when he was aware of the approach of the Pinta, and very soon her
captain, Martin Alonzo Pinzon, came on board the Nina, endeavouring to excuse his conduct.
The real truth was that Pinzon had taken the lead with the view of being the first to reach
the pretended island of Babeque, of which the riches had been described in glowing colours
by the natives. The admiral was very ready to accept the bad reasons given him by Captain Pinzon,
and learnt from him that the Pinta had done nothing but coast along the shores of Hispaniola,
without discovering any new island.

On the 7th of January the ships lay to, to stop a leak which had sprung in the hold of the
Nina. Columbus profited by this delay to explore a wide river, situated about three miles from
Monte-Christi, and which carried so much gold-dust along with it, that he gave it the name
of the Golden River. The admiral would have desired to visit this part of Hispaniola with greater
care, but the crews were in haste to return home, and under the influence of the brothers Pinzon,
began to murmur against his authority.

On the 9th of January the caravels set sail and steered towards the east-south-east, skirting
the coast, and distinguishing by names even its smallest sinuosities; of such were point Isabella,
the cape of La Roca, French Cape, Cape Cabron, and the Bay of Samana, situated at the eastern
extremity of the island, where was a port, in which the fleet, being becalmed, came to anchor.
At first the relations between the foreigners and the natives were excellent, but a change
was suddenly perceived, the savages ceasing to barter, and making some hostile demonstrations,
which left no doubt of the bad intentions entertained by them. On the 13th of January the savages
made a sudden and unexpected attack upon the Spaniards, who, however, put a bold face on the
matter, and by the aid of their weapons, put their enemies to flight after a few minutes' combat.
Thus, for the first time, the blood of the Indian flowed beneath the hand of the European.

On the morrow Columbus again set sail, having on board four young natives, whom, notwithstanding
their objections, he persisted in carrying off with him. His crews, embittered and fatigued,
caused him great uneasiness, and in his narrative of the voyage, this great man, superior though
he were to all human weaknesses, and a being whom adverse fate could not humble, bemoans himself
bitterly over this trial. It was on the 16th of January that the homeward voyage commenced
in good earnest, and Cape Samana, the extreme point of Hispaniola, disappeared below the horizon.
The passage proved a quick one, and no incident is recorded until the 12th of February, when
the vessels encountered a fearful storm lasting three days, with furious wind, enormous waves,
and much lightning from the north-north-east. Three times did the terrified sailors make a
vow of pilgrimage to St. Mary of Guadalupe, to our Lady of Loretto, and to St. Clara of Moguer,
and at length, in extremity of fear, the whole crew swore to go and pray in their shirts and
with naked feet in some church dedicated to the Virgin. But in spite of all, the storm raged
with redoubled fury, and even the admiral feared for the result. In case of a catastrophe,
he thought it well hastily to write upon a parchment an abstract of his discoveries, with a
request that who ever should find the document would forward it to the King of Spain; wrapping
the parchment in oil-cloth, he enclosed it in a wooden barrel, which was thrown into the sea.

At sunrise on the 15th of February the hurricane abated, the two caravels which had been separated
by the storm again joined company, and after three days they cast anchor at the island of St.
Mary, one of the Azores; as soon as they arrived there, the admiral sought to further the accomplishment
of the vows made during the storm, and with this object, sent half of his people on shore;
but these were unhappily made prisoners by the Portuguese, who did not restore them to liberty
for five days, notwithstanding the urgent remonstrances made by Columbus. The admiral put to
sea again on the 23rd of February; again the winds were contrary, and again, amidst a violent
tempest, he took fresh vows in company with all his crew, promising to fast on the first Saturday
which should follow their arrival in Spain. At last, on the 4th of March, the pilots sighted
the mouth of the Tagus, in which the Nina took refuge, whilst the Pinta, caught by the wind,
was carried away into the Bay of Biscay.

The Portuguese welcomed the admiral kindly, the king even admitting him to an audience. Columbus
was in haste to return to Spain; as soon as the weather permitted, the Nina again set sail,
and at mid-day on the 15th of March, she cast anchor in the port of Palos, after seven months
and a half of navigation, during which Columbus had discovered the islands of San Salvador,
Conception, Great Exuma, Long Island, the Mucaras, Cuba, and San Domingo.

The court of Ferdinand and Isabella was then at Barcelona, whither the admiral was summoned.
He set out immediately, taking with him the Indians whom he had brought from the New World.
The enthusiasm he excited was extreme; from all parts the people ran to look at him as he passed,
rendering him royal honours. His entry into Barcelona was magnificent. The king and queen,
with the grandees of Spain, received him with great pomp at the palace of the Deputation. He
there gave an account of his wonderful voyage, and presented the specimens of gold which he
had brought with him; then all the assembly knelt down and chanted the Te Deum. Christopher
Columbus was afterwards ennobled by letters patent, and the king granted him a coat of arms
bearing this device: "To Castille and Leon, Columbus gives a New World." The fame of the Genoese
navigator rang through the whole of Europe; the Indians whom he had brought with him were baptized
in presence of the whole court; and thus, the man of genius, so long poor and unknown, had
now risen to the highest point of celebrity.

III. CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.

The narrative of the adventures of the great Genoese navigator had over-excited the minds of
the hearers. Imagination already caught glimpses of golden continents situated beyond the seas.
All the passions which are engendered by cupidity were seething in the people's hearts. The
admiral, under pressure of public opinion, must set forth again with the most brief delay.
He was himself also, eager to return to the theatre of his conquests, and to yet enrich the
maps of the day with more new discoveries. He declared himself, therefore, ready to start.

The king and queen placed at his disposal a flotilla composed of three large ships and fourteen
caravels. Twelve hundred men were to sail in them. Several Castilian nobles, with firm faith
in the lucky star of Columbus, decided to try their fortune with him beyond seas. In the holds
of the vessels were horses, cattle, instruments of all kinds for collecting and purifying gold,
grain of various kinds; in a word, everything that might be needful in the establishing an
important colony. Of the ten natives brought to Europe, five returned to their country, three,
who were ill, remained behind in Europe, the other two were dead. Columbus was named captain-general
of the squadron, with unlimited powers.

On the 25th of September, 1493, the seventeen ships left Cadiz, with all sails set, amidst
the acclamations of an immense crowd of people and on the 1st of October, they cast anchor
at the island of Ferro, the most westerly of the Canary group. On sailing again, the fleet
was favoured by wind and sea, and after twenty-three days of navigation came in sight of new
land. At sunrise on the 3rd of November, being the Sunday in the octave of All Saints, the
pilot of the flag-ship, the Marie-Galante, cried out, "Good news, there is land." This land
proved to be an island covered with trees; the admiral, thinking it uninhabited, did not stop;
but, after passing several scattered islets, he arrived before a second island. The first he
named Dominica, the second Marie-Galante, names which they retain to the present day. The next
day a still larger island was in sight, and, says the narrative of this voyage given by Peter
Martyr, the contemporary of Columbus, "When they were arrived, they saw it was the island of
the infamous cannibals, or Caribbees, of whom they had only heard a rumour during the first
voyage."

The Spaniards, well armed, landed upon the shore, where they found about thirty circular houses
built of wood and covered with palm leaves. In the interior of the huts were suspended hammocks
made of cotton. In the centre of the village were placed two trees or posts around which were
entwined the dead bodies of two serpents. At the approach of the strangers the natives fled
in haste, leaving behind them several prisoners whom they were preparing to devour. The sailors
searched the houses, and found both leg and arm bones, heads so newly cut off that the blood
was still moist, and other human remains, which left no doubt as to the food consumed by these
Caribbees. This island, which, with its principal rivers, the admiral caused to be partially
explored, was named Guadaloupe, on account of the resemblance it bore to one of the Spanish
provinces. Some Indian women were carried off by the sailors, but, after having been kindly
treated on board the admiral's ship, they were sent back to land, Columbus hoping that this
conduct towards the females would induce the men of the place to come on board, but in this
he was disappointed.

On the 8th of November the signal for departure was given, and the whole fleet sailed for Hispaniola,
the present San Domingo, and the island upon which Columbus had left thirty-nine of the companions
of his first voyage. In turning again towards the north, a large island was discovered, to
which the natives who had been kept on board after having been saved from the jaws of the Caribbees,
gave the name of Mandanino. They declared that it was inhabited only by women, and as Marco
Polo had mentioned an Asiatic country which possessed an exclusively feminine population, Columbus
was confirmed in the idea that he was sailing upon the coast of Asia. He felt a great desire
to explore this island, but the contrary winds completely prevented his doing so. Thirty miles
from thence an island was seen surrounded by high mountains; it received the name of Montserrat;
on the next day another, which was called Santa-Maria la Rodonda; and on the day following
two more islands, St. Martin and Santa Cruz.

The squadron anchored before Santa Cruz, to take in water. There occurred a scene of grave
import, reported by Peter Martyr in such expressive words, that we cannot do better than quote
them: "The admiral," he says, "ordered thirty men from his ship to go ashore and explore the
island; and these men, being landed on the coast, were aware of four dogs and as many young
men and women coming towards them, extending their arms in supplication, and praying for help
and deliverance from the cruel people. The cannibals on seeing this fled, as in the island
of Guadaloupe, and all retired into the forests. And our people remained two days on the island
to visit it.

"During that time, those who had remained with the boat saw a canoe coming towards them from
a distance, containing eight men and as many women; to these our people made signs; but they
on approaching, began to transpierce ours with their arrows, before they had time to cover
themselves with their bucklers, so that one Spaniard was killed by a shaft aimed by a woman,
who also transfixed another with a second arrow. These savages had poisoned arrows, the poison
being contained in the tip; amongst them was a woman whom all the others obeyed, bowing before
her. And this was, as they conjectured, a queen, having a son of cruel appearance, robust,
and with the face of a lion, who followed her.

"Ours then, considering that it was better to fight hand to hand, than to wait for greater
evils in thus fighting at a distance, advanced their boat by rowing, and by so great violence
did they make it move forward, that the stern of the said boat came with such velocity, it
caused the enemies' canoe to founder.

"But these Indians, being very good swimmers, without moving themselves either more slowly
or more rapidly, did not cease, both men and women, to shoot arrows with all their might, at
our people. And they succeeded in reaching, by swimming, a rock covered with the water, upon
which they mounted, and still fought manfully. Nevertheless, they were finally taken, and one
of them slain, and the son of the queen, pierced in two places; when they were taken to the
admiral's ship they showed no less ferociousness and atrocity of mien, than if they had been
lions of Libya who felt themselves taken in the net. And such were they that no man could have
even looked upon them without his heart trembling with horror, so greatly was their look hideous,
terrible, and infernal."

From all this it is clear that the strife between the Indians and the Europeans was beginning
to be serious. Columbus sailed again towards the north, going in the midst of islands "pleasant
and innumerable," covered with forests overshadowed by mountains of various hues. This collection
of islands was called the Archipelago of the Eleven Thousand Virgins. Soon appeared the island
of St. John Baptist (now Porto Rico), a place infested by Caribbees, but cultivated with care,
and appearing truly superb from its immense woods. Some sailors landed upon the shore, but
only found there a dozen uninhabited huts. The admiral put to sea again, and sailed along the
southern coast of Porto Rico for about one hundred and fifty miles.

On Friday, the 12th of November, Columbus at last reached the island of Hispaniola. With what
emotions must he not have been agitated in revisiting the theatre of his first success, in
seeking to behold that fortress in which he had left his companions! What might not have happened
in the course of a year to those Europeans left alone in this barbarous land? Soon a great
canoe, bringing the brother of the Cacique Guacanagari, came alongside of the Marie-Galante,
and the Indian prince springing on board, offered two images of gold to the admiral. Still
Columbus sought for his fortress, but, although he had anchored opposite its site, there was
no trace whatever to be seen of it. With feelings of the deepest anxiety as to the fate of
his companions, he went on shore. What was his dismay, when he found nothing left of the fortress
but a few ashes! What could have become of his compatriots? Had their lives been the forfeit
of this first attempt at colonization? The admiral ordered the simultaneous discharge of the
cannon from all the ships to announce his arrival at Hispaniola. But none of his companions
appeared. Columbus, in despair, immediately despatched messengers to the Cacique Guacanagari;
who, on their return brought sad news. If Guacanagari might be believed, some other caciques,
irritated by the presence of the foreigners in their island, had attacked the unfortunate colonists,
and had massacred them to the last man. Guacanagari himself had received a wound in endeavouring
to defend them, and to corroborate his story he showed his leg enveloped in a cotton bandage.

Columbus did not believe in this intervention of the cacique, but, resolving to dissimulate,
he welcomed Guacanagari kindly when he came on board the next day; the cacique accepted an
image of the Virgin, suspending it on his bosom. He appeared astonished at the sight of the
horses which they showed him, these animals having been hitherto quite unknown to himself and
his companions. When his visit was over, he returned to the shore, regained the region of mountains,
and was seen no more.

The admiral then despatched one of his captains with three hundred men under his orders, to
scour the country and carry off the cacique. This captain penetrated far into the interior,
but found no traces of the cacique, nor of the unfortunate colonists. During this excursion,
a great river was discovered, and also a fine sheltered harbour, which was named Port Royal.
However, in spite of the bad success of his first attempt, Columbus had resolved to found a
new colony upon this island, which appeared to be rich both in gold and silver. The natives
constantly spoke of mines situated in the province of Cibao, and in the month of January two
gentlemen, Alonzo de Hojeda and Corvalan, set out accompanied by a numerous escort to verify
these assertions. They discovered four rivers having auriferous sands, and brought back with
them a nugget which weighed nine ounces. The admiral on seeing these riches was confirmed in
his idea that Hispaniola was the famous Ophir, spoken of in the Book of Kings. After looking
for a site upon which to build a town, he laid the foundation of Isabella in a spot at the
mouth of a river which formed a harbour, and at a distance of thirty miles east from Monte
Christi. On the Feast of the Epiphany, thirteen priests officiated in the church in presence
of an immense crowd of natives.

Columbus was now anxious to send news of the colony to the King and Queen of Spain. Twelve
ships laden with gold collected in the island, and with various specimens of the produce of
the soil, were prepared to return to Europe under the command of Captain Torrès. This flotilla
set sail on the 2nd of February, 1494, and a short time afterwards Columbus sent back one more
of the five ships which remained to him, with the Lieutenant Bernard of Pisa, against whom
he had cause of complaint.

As soon as order was established in the colony of Isabella, the admiral, leaving his brother
behind as governor, set out, accompanied by five hundred men, to visit the mines of Cibao.
The country they traversed seemed to be splendidly fertile; vegetables came to perfection in
thirteen days; corn sown in February was in full ear in April, and each year yielded two abundant
harvests. They crossed successively mountains and valleys, where often the pick-axe had to
be used to clear a way over these still virgin lands; at last the Spaniards arrived at Cibao.
There the admiral caused a fort to be constructed of wood and stone on a hill near the brink
of a large river; it was surrounded with a deep ditch, and Columbus bestowed upon it the name
of St. Thomas, in derision of some of his officers who were incredulous upon the subject of
the gold-mines. It ill became them to doubt, for from all parts the natives brought nuggets
and gold dust, which they were eager to exchange for beads, and above all for the hawks' bells,
of which the silvery sound excited them to dance. This country was not only a land of gold,
it was also a country rich in spices and aromatic gums, the trees which bore them forming quite
large forests. The Spaniards considered the conquest of this wealthy island a cause of unmixed
congratulation.

