Then followed a wild running and trampling and hoarse shouting, but the forms of the men were
lost in the darkness and the sounds were distorted and confused by the roaring of the wind
through the shingle-bundles. By this time the sea was running inches high, and threatening
every moment to engulf the frail bark. Now came the mate, hurrying aft, and said, close to
the captain's ear, in a low, agitated voice:

"Prepare for the worst, sir--we have sprung a leak!"

"Heavens! where?"

"Right aft the second row of logs."

"Nothing but a miracle can save us! Don't let the men know, or there will be a panic and mutiny!
Lay her in shore and stand by to jump with the stern-line the moment she touches. Gentlemen,
I must look to you to second my endeavors in this hour of peril. You have hats--go forward
and bail for your lives!"

Down swept another mighty blast of wind, clothed in spray and thick darkness. At such a moment
as this, came from away forward that most appalling of all cries that are ever heard at sea:

"MAN OVERBOARD!"

The captain shouted:

"Hard a-port! Never mind the man! Let him climb aboard or wade ashore!"

Another cry came down the wind:

"Breakers ahead!"

"Where away?"

"Not a log's length off her port fore-foot!"

We had groped our slippery way forward, and were now bailing with the frenzy of despair, when
we heard the mate's terrified cry, from far aft:

"Stop that dashed bailing, or we shall be aground!"

But this was immediately followed by the glad shout:

"Land aboard the starboard transom!"

"Saved!" cried the captain. "Jump ashore and take a turn around a tree and pass the bight aboard!"

The next moment we were all on shore weeping and embracing for joy, while the rain poured down
in torrents. The captain said he had been a mariner for forty years on the Neckar, and in that
time had seen storms to make a man's cheek blanch and his pulses stop, but he had never, never
seen a storm that even approached this one. How familiar that sounded! For I have been at sea
a good deal and have heard that remark from captains with a frequency accordingly.

We framed in our minds the usual resolution of thanks and admiration and gratitude, and took
the first opportunity to vote it, and put it in writing and present it to the captain, with
the customary speech. We tramped through the darkness and the drenching summer rain full three
miles, and reached "The Naturalist Tavern" in the village of Hirschhorn just an hour before
midnight, almost exhausted from hardship, fatigue, and terror. I can never forget that night.

The landlord was rich, and therefore could afford to be crusty and disobliging; he did not
at all like being turned out of his warm bed to open his house for us. But no matter, his household
got up and cooked a quick supper for us, and we brewed a hot punch for ourselves, to keep off
consumption. After supper and punch we had an hour's soothing smoke while we fought the naval
battle over again and voted the resolutions; then we retired to exceedingly neat and pretty
chambers upstairs that had clean, comfortable beds in them with heirloom pillowcases most elaborately
and tastefully embroidered by hand.

Such rooms and beds and embroidered linen are as frequent in German village inns as they are
rare in ours. Our villages are superior to German villages in more merits, excellences, conveniences,
and privileges than I can enumerate, but the hotels do not belong in the list.

"The Naturalist Tavern" was not a meaningless name; for all the halls and all the rooms were
lined with large glass cases which were filled with all sorts of birds and animals, glass-eyed,
ably stuffed, and set up in the most natural eloquent and dramatic attitudes. The moment we
were abed, the rain cleared away and the moon came out. I dozed off to sleep while contemplating
a great white stuffed owl which was looking intently down on me from a high perch with the
air of a person who thought he had met me before, but could not make out for certain.

But young Z did not get off so easily. He said that as he was sinking deliciously to sleep,
the moon lifted away the shadows and developed a huge cat, on a bracket, dead and stuffed,
but crouching, with every muscle tense, for a spring, and with its glittering glass eyes aimed
straight at him. It made Z uncomfortable. He tried closing his own eyes, but that did not answer,
for a natural instinct kept making him open them again to see if the cat was still getting
ready to launch at him--which she always was. He tried turning his back, but that was a failure;
he knew the sinister eyes were on him still. So at last he had to get up, after an hour or
two of worry and experiment, and set the cat out in the hall. So he won, that time.

CHAPTER XVIII

[The Kindly Courtesy of Germans]

In the morning we took breakfast in the garden, under the trees, in the delightful German summer
fashion. The air was filled with the fragrance of flowers and wild animals; the living portion
of the menagerie of the "Naturalist Tavern" was all about us. There were great cages populous
with fluttering and chattering foreign birds, and other great cages and greater wire pens,
populous with quadrupeds, both native and foreign. There were some free creatures, too, and
quite sociable ones they were. White rabbits went loping about the place, and occasionally
came and sniffed at our shoes and shins; a fawn, with a red ribbon on its neck, walked up and
examined us fearlessly; rare breeds of chickens and doves begged for crumbs, and a poor old
tailless raven hopped about with a humble, shamefaced mein which said, "Please do not notice
my exposure--think how you would feel in my circumstances, and be charitable." If he was observed
too much, he would retire behind something and stay there until he judged the party's interest
had found another object. I never have seen another dumb creature that was so morbidly sensitive.
Bayard Taylor, who could interpret the dim reasonings of animals, and understood their moral
natures better than most men, would have found some way to make this poor old chap forget his
troubles for a while, but we have not his kindly art, and so had to leave the raven to his griefs.

After breakfast we climbed the hill and visited the ancient castle of Hirschhorn, and the ruined
church near it. There were some curious old bas-reliefs leaning against the inner walls of
the church--sculptured lords of Hirschhorn in complete armor, and ladies of Hirschhorn in the
picturesque court costumes of the Middle Ages. These things are suffering damage and passing
to decay, for the last Hirschhorn has been dead two hundred years, and there is nobody now
who cares to preserve the family relics. In the chancel was a twisted stone column, and the
captain told us a legend about it, of course, for in the matter of legends he could not seem
to restrain himself; but I do not repeat his tale because there was nothing plausible about
it except that the Hero wrenched this column into its present screw-shape with his hands --just
one single wrench. All the rest of the legend was doubtful.

But Hirschhorn is best seen from a distance, down the river. Then the clustered brown towers
perched on the green hilltop, and the old battlemented stone wall, stretching up and over the
grassy ridge and disappearing in the leafy sea beyond, make a picture whose grace and beauty
entirely satisfy the eye.

We descended from the church by steep stone stairways which curved this way and that down narrow
alleys between the packed and dirty tenements of the village. It was a quarter well stocked
with deformed, leering, unkempt and uncombed idiots, who held out hands or caps and begged
piteously. The people of the quarter were not all idiots, of course, but all that begged seemed
to be, and were said to be.

I was thinking of going by skiff to the next town, Necharsteinach; so I ran to the riverside
in advance of the party and asked a man there if he had a boat to hire. I suppose I must have
spoken High German--Court German--I intended it for that, anyway--so he did not understand
me. I turned and twisted my question around and about, trying to strike that man's average,
but failed. He could not make out what I wanted. Now Mr. X arrived, faced this same man, looked
him in the eye, and emptied this sentence on him, in the most glib and confident way: "Can
man boat get here?"

The mariner promptly understood and promptly answered. I can comprehend why he was able to
understand that particular sentence, because by mere accident all the words in it except "get"
have the same sound and the same meaning in German that they have in English; but how he managed
to understand Mr. X's next remark puzzled me. I will insert it, presently. X turned away a
moment, and I asked the mariner if he could not find a board, and so construct an additional
seat. I spoke in the purest German, but I might as well have spoken in the purest Choctaw for
all the good it did. The man tried his best to understand me; he tried, and kept on trying,
harder and harder, until I saw it was really of no use, and said:

"There, don't strain yourself--it is of no consequence."

Then X turned to him and crisply said:

"MACHEN SIE a flat board."

I wish my epitaph may tell the truth about me if the man did not answer up at once, and say
he would go and borrow a board as soon as he had lit the pipe which he was filling.

We changed our mind about taking a boat, so we did not have to go. I have given Mr. X's two
remarks just as he made them. Four of the five words in the first one were English, and that
they were also German was only accidental, not intentional; three out of the five words in
the second remark were English, and English only, and the two German ones did not mean anything
in particular, in such a connection.

X always spoke English to Germans, but his plan was to turn the sentence wrong end first and
upside down, according to German construction, and sprinkle in a German word without any essential
meaning to it, here and there, by way of flavor. Yet he always made himself understood. He
could make those dialect-speaking raftsmen understand him, sometimes, when even young Z had
failed with them; and young Z was a pretty good German scholar. For one thing, X always spoke
with such confidence--perhaps that helped. And possibly the raftsmen's dialect was what is
called PLATT-DEUTSCH, and so they found his English more familiar to their ears than another
man's German. Quite indifferent students of German can read Fritz Reuter's charming platt-Deutch
tales with some little facility because many of the words are English. I suppose this is the
tongue which our Saxon ancestors carried to England with them. By and by I will inquire of
some other philologist.

However, in the mean time it had transpired that the men employed to calk the raft had found
that the leak was not a leak at all, but only a crack between the logs--a crack that belonged
there, and was not dangerous, but had been magnified into a leak by the disordered imagination
of the mate. Therefore we went aboard again with a good degree of confidence, and presently
got to sea without accident. As we swam smoothly along between the enchanting shores, we fell
to swapping notes about manners and customs in Germany and elsewhere.

As I write, now, many months later, I perceive that each of us, by observing and noting and
inquiring, diligently and day by day, had managed to lay in a most varied and opulent stock
of misinformation. But this is not surprising; it is very difficult to get accurate details
in any country. For example, I had the idea once, in Heidelberg, to find out all about those
five student-corps. I started with the White Cap corps. I began to inquire of this and that
and the other citizen, and here is what I found out:

1. It is called the Prussian Corps, because none but Prussians are admitted to it.

2. It is called the Prussian Corps for no particular reason. It has simply pleased each corps
to name itself after some German state.

3. It is not named the Prussian Corps at all, but only the White Cap Corps.

4. Any student can belong to it who is a German by birth.

5. Any student can belong to it who is European by birth.

6. Any European-born student can belong to it, except he be a Frenchman.

7. Any student can belong to it, no matter where he was born.

8. No student can belong to it who is not of noble blood.

9. No student can belong to it who cannot show three full generations of noble descent.

10. Nobility is not a necessary qualification.

11. No moneyless student can belong to it.

12. Money qualification is nonsense--such a thing has never been thought of.

I got some of this information from students themselves--students who did not belong to the corps.

I finally went to headquarters--to the White Caps--where I would have gone in the first place
if I had been acquainted. But even at headquarters I found difficulties; I perceived that there
were things about the White Cap Corps which one member knew and another one didn't. It was
natural; for very few members of any organization know ALL that can be known about it. I doubt
there is a man or a woman in Heidelberg who would not answer promptly and confidently three
out of every five questions about the White Cap Corps which a stranger might ask; yet it is
a very safe bet that two of the three answers would be incorrect every time.

There is one German custom which is universal--the bowing courteously to strangers when sitting
down at table or rising up from it. This bow startles a stranger out of his self-possession,
the first time it occurs, and he is likely to fall over a chair or something, in his embarrassment,
but it pleases him, nevertheless. One soon learns to expect this bow and be on the lookout
and ready to return it; but to learn to lead off and make the initial bow one's self is a difficult
matter for a diffident man. One thinks, "If I rise to go, and tender my bow, and these ladies
and gentlemen take it into their heads to ignore the custom of their nation, and not return
it, how shall I feel, in case I survive to feel anything." Therefore he is afraid to venture.
He sits out the dinner, and makes the strangers rise first and originate the bowing. A table
d'hôte dinner is a tedious affair for a man who seldom touches anything after the three first
courses; therefore I used to do some pretty dreary waiting because of my fears. It took me
months to assure myself that those fears were groundless, but I did assure myself at last by
experimenting diligently through my agent. I made Harris get up and bow and leave; invariably
his bow was returned, then I got up and bowed myself and retired.

Thus my education proceeded easily and comfortably for me, but not for Harris. Three courses
of a table d'hôte dinner were enough for me, but Harris preferred thirteen.

Even after I had acquired full confidence, and no longer needed the agent's help, I sometimes
encountered difficulties. Once at Baden-Baden I nearly lost a train because I could not be
sure that three young ladies opposite me at table were Germans, since I had not heard them
speak; they might be American, they might be English, it was not safe to venture a bow; but
just as I had got that far with my thought, one of them began a German remark, to my great
relief and gratitude; and before she got out her third word, our bows had been delivered and
graciously returned, and we were off.

There is a friendly something about the German character which is very winning. When Harris
and I were making a pedestrian tour through the Black Forest, we stopped at a little country
inn for dinner one day; two young ladies and a young gentleman entered and sat down opposite
us. They were pedestrians, too. Our knapsacks were strapped upon our backs, but they had a
sturdy youth along to carry theirs for them. All parties were hungry, so there was no talking.
By and by the usual bows were exchanged, and we separated.

As we sat at a late breakfast in the hotel at Allerheiligen, next morning, these young people
entered and took places near us without observing us; but presently they saw us and at once
bowed and smiled; not ceremoniously, but with the gratified look of people who have found acquaintances
where they were expecting strangers. Then they spoke of the weather and the roads. We also
spoke of the weather and the roads. Next, they said they had had an enjoyable walk, notwithstanding
the weather. We said that that had been our case, too. Then they said they had walked thirty
English miles the day before, and asked how many we had walked. I could not lie, so I told
Harris to do it. Harris told them we had made thirty English miles, too. That was true; we
had "made" them, though we had had a little assistance here and there.

After breakfast they found us trying to blast some information out of the dumb hotel clerk
about routes, and observing that we were not succeeding pretty well, they went and got their
maps and things, and pointed out and explained our course so clearly that even a New York detective
could have followed it. And when we started they spoke out a hearty good-by and wished us a
pleasant journey. Perhaps they were more generous with us than they might have been with native
wayfarers because we were a forlorn lot and in a strange land; I don't know; I only know it
was lovely to be treated so.

Very well, I took an American young lady to one of the fine balls in Baden-Baden, one night,
and at the entrance-door upstairs we were halted by an official--something about Miss Jones's
dress was not according to rule; I don't remember what it was, now; something was wanting--her
back hair, or a shawl, or a fan, or a shovel, or something. The official was ever so polite,
and ever so sorry, but the rule was strict, and he could not let us in. It was very embarrassing,
for many eyes were on us. But now a richly dressed girl stepped out of the ballroom, inquired
into the trouble, and said she could fix it in a moment. She took Miss Jones to the robing-room,
and soon brought her back in regulation trim, and then we entered the ballroom with this benefactress
unchallenged.

Being safe, now, I began to puzzle through my sincere but ungrammatical thanks, when there
was a sudden mutual recognition --the benefactress and I had met at Allerheiligen. Two weeks
had not altered her good face, and plainly her heart was in the right place yet, but there
was such a difference between these clothes and the clothes I had seen her in before, when
she was walking thirty miles a day in the Black Forest, that it was quite natural that I had
failed to recognize her sooner. I had on MY other suit, too, but my German would betray me
to a person who had heard it once, anyway. She brought her brother and sister, and they made
our way smooth for that evening.

Well--months afterward, I was driving through the streets of Munich in a cab with a German
lady, one day, when she said:

"There, that is Prince Ludwig and his wife, walking along there."

Everybody was bowing to them--cabmen, little children, and everybody else--and they were returning
all the bows and overlooking nobody, when a young lady met them and made a deep courtesy.

"That is probably one of the ladies of the court," said my German friend.

I said:

"She is an honor to it, then. I know her. I don't know her name, but I know HER. I have known
her at Allerheiligen and Baden-Baden. She ought to be an Empress, but she may be only a Duchess;
it is the way things go in this way."

If one asks a German a civil question, he will be quite sure to get a civil answer. If you
stop a German in the street and ask him to direct you to a certain place, he shows no sign
of feeling offended. If the place be difficult to find, ten to one the man will drop his own
matters and go with you and show you.

In London, too, many a time, strangers have walked several blocks with me to show me my way.

There is something very real about this sort of politeness. Quite often, in Germany, shopkeepers
who could not furnish me the article I wanted have sent one of their employees with me to show
me a place where it could be had.

CHAPTER XIX

[The Deadly Jest of Dilsberg]

However, I wander from the raft. We made the port of Necharsteinach in good season, and went
to the hotel and ordered a trout dinner, the same to be ready against our return from a two-hour
pedestrian excursion to the village and castle of Dilsberg, a mile distant, on the other side
of the river. I do not mean that we proposed to be two hours making two miles--no, we meant
to employ most of the time in inspecting Dilsberg.

For Dilsberg is a quaint place. It is most quaintly and picturesquely situated, too. Imagine
the beautiful river before you; then a few rods of brilliant green sward on its opposite shore;
then a sudden hill--no preparatory gently rising slopes, but a sort of instantaneous hill--a
hill two hundred and fifty or three hundred feet high, as round as a bowl, with the same taper
upward that an inverted bowl has, and with about the same relation of height to diameter that
distinguishes a bowl of good honest depth--a hill which is thickly clothed with green bushes--a
comely, shapely hill, rising abruptly out of the dead level of the surrounding green plains,
visible from a great distance down the bends of the river, and with just exactly room on the
top of its head for its steepled and turreted and roof-clustered cap of architecture, which
same is tightly jammed and compacted within the perfectly round hoop of the ancient village wall.

There is no house outside the wall on the whole hill, or any vestige of a former house; all
the houses are inside the wall, but there isn't room for another one. It is really a finished
town, and has been finished a very long time. There is no space between the wall and the first
circle of buildings; no, the village wall is itself the rear wall of the first circle of buildings,
and the roofs jut a little over the wall and thus furnish it with eaves. The general level
of the massed roofs is gracefully broken and relieved by the dominating towers of the ruined
castle and the tall spires of a couple of churches; so, from a distance Dilsberg has rather
more the look of a king's crown than a cap. That lofty green eminence and its quaint coronet
form quite a striking picture, you may be sure, in the flush of the evening sun.

We crossed over in a boat and began the ascent by a narrow, steep path which plunged us at
once into the leafy deeps of the bushes. But they were not cool deeps by any means, for the
sun's rays were weltering hot and there was little or no breeze to temper them. As we panted
up the sharp ascent, we met brown, bareheaded and barefooted boys and girls, occasionally,
and sometimes men; they came upon us without warning, they gave us good day, flashed out of
sight in the bushes, and were gone as suddenly and mysteriously as they had come. They were
bound for the other side of the river to work. This path had been traveled by many generations
of these people. They have always gone down to the valley to earn their bread, but they have
always climbed their hill again to eat it, and to sleep in their snug town.

It is said that the Dilsbergers do not emigrate much; they find that living up there above
the world, in their peaceful nest, is pleasanter than living down in the troublous world. The
seven hundred inhabitants are all blood-kin to each other, too; they have always been blood-kin
to each other for fifteen hundred years; they are simply one large family, and they like the
home folks better than they like strangers, hence they persistently stay at home. It has been
said that for ages Dilsberg has been merely a thriving and diligent idiot-factory. I saw no
idiots there, but the captain said, "Because of late years the government has taken to lugging
them off to asylums and otherwheres; and government wants to cripple the factory, too, and
is trying to get these Dilsbergers to marry out of the family, but they don't like to."

The captain probably imagined all this, as modern science denies that the intermarrying of
relatives deteriorates the stock.

Arrived within the wall, we found the usual village sights and life. We moved along a narrow,
crooked lane which had been paved in the Middle Ages. A strapping, ruddy girl was beating flax
or some such stuff in a little bit of a good-box of a barn, and she swung her flail with a
will--if it was a flail; I was not farmer enough to know what she was at; a frowsy, barelegged
girl was herding half a dozen geese with a stick--driving them along the lane and keeping them
out of the dwellings; a cooper was at work in a shop which I know he did not make so large
a thing as a hogshead in, for there was not room. In the front rooms of dwellings girls and
women were cooking or spinning, and ducks and chickens were waddling in and out, over the threshold,
picking up chance crumbs and holding pleasant converse; a very old and wrinkled man sat asleep
before his door, with his chin upon his breast and his extinguished pipe in his lap; soiled
children were playing in the dirt everywhere along the lane, unmindful of the sun.

Except the sleeping old man, everybody was at work, but the place was very still and peaceful,
nevertheless; so still that the distant cackle of the successful hen smote upon the ear but
little dulled by intervening sounds. That commonest of village sights was lacking here--the
public pump, with its great stone tank or trough of limpid water, and its group of gossiping
pitcher-bearers; for there is no well or fountain or spring on this tall hill; cisterns of
rain-water are used.

Our alpenstocks and muslin tails compelled attention, and as we moved through the village we
gathered a considerable procession of little boys and girls, and so went in some state to the
castle. It proved to be an extensive pile of crumbling walls, arches, and towers, massive,
properly grouped for picturesque effect, weedy, grass-grown, and satisfactory. The children
acted as guides; they walked us along the top of the highest walls, then took us up into a
high tower and showed us a wide and beautiful landscape, made up of wavy distances of woody
hills, and a nearer prospect of undulating expanses of green lowlands, on the one hand, and
castle-graced crags and ridges on the other, with the shining curves of the Neckar flowing
between. But the principal show, the chief pride of the children, was the ancient and empty
well in the grass-grown court of the castle. Its massive stone curb stands up three or four
feet above-ground, and is whole and uninjured. The children said that in the Middle Ages this
well was four hundred feet deep, and furnished all the village with an abundant supply of water,
in war and peace. They said that in the old day its bottom was below the level of the Neckar,
hence the water-supply was inexhaustible.

But there were some who believed it had never been a well at all, and was never deeper than
it is now--eighty feet; that at that depth a subterranean passage branched from it and descended
gradually to a remote place in the valley, where it opened into somebody's cellar or other
hidden recess, and that the secret of this locality is now lost. Those who hold this belief
say that herein lies the explanation that Dilsberg, besieged by Tilly and many a soldier before
him, was never taken: after the longest and closest sieges the besiegers were astonished to
perceive that the besieged were as fat and hearty as ever, and were well furnished with munitions
of war--therefore it must be that the Dilsbergers had been bringing these things in through
the subterranean passage all the time.

The children said that there was in truth a subterranean outlet down there, and they would
prove it. So they set a great truss of straw on fire and threw it down the well, while we leaned
on the curb and watched the glowing mass descend. It struck bottom and gradually burned out.
No smoke came up. The children clapped their hands and said:

"You see! Nothing makes so much smoke as burning straw--now where did the smoke go to, if there
is no subterranean outlet?"

So it seemed quite evident that the subterranean outlet indeed existed. But the finest thing
within the ruin's limits was a noble linden, which the children said was four hundred years
old, and no doubt it was. It had a mighty trunk and a mighty spread of limb and foliage. The
limbs near the ground were nearly the thickness of a barrel.

That tree had witnessed the assaults of men in mail--how remote such a time seems, and how
ungraspable is the fact that real men ever did fight in real armor!--and it had seen the time
when these broken arches and crumbling battlements were a trim and strong and stately fortress,
fluttering its gay banners in the sun, and peopled with vigorous humanity--how impossibly long
ago that seems!--and here it stands yet, and possibly may still be standing here, sunning itself
and dreaming its historical dreams, when today shall have been joined to the days called "ancient."

Well, we sat down under the tree to smoke, and the captain delivered himself of his legend:
THE LEGEND OF DILSBERG CASTLE It was to this effect. In the old times there was once a great
company assembled at the castle, and festivity ran high. Of course there was a haunted chamber
in the castle, and one day the talk fell upon that. It was said that whoever slept in it would
not wake again for fifty years. Now when a young knight named Conrad von Geisberg heard this,
he said that if the castle were his he would destroy that chamber, so that no foolish person
might have the chance to bring so dreadful a misfortune upon himself and afflict such as loved
him with the memory of it. Straightway, the company privately laid their heads together to
contrive some way to get this superstitious young man to sleep in that chamber.

And they succeeded--in this way. They persuaded his betrothed, a lovely mischievous young creature,
niece of the lord of the castle, to help them in their plot. She presently took him aside and
had speech with him. She used all her persuasions, but could not shake him; he said his belief
was firm, that if he should sleep there he would wake no more for fifty years, and it made
him shudder to think of it. Catharina began to weep. This was a better argument; Conrad could
not hold out against it. He yielded and said she should have her wish if she would only smile
and be happy again. She flung her arms about his neck, and the kisses she gave him showed that
her thankfulness and her pleasure were very real. Then she flew to tell the company her success,
and the applause she received made her glad and proud she had undertaken her mission, since
all alone she had accomplished what the multitude had failed in.

