THE ORGANIZATION OF THE CONGREGATION IN THE EARLY LUTHERAN CHURCHES IN AMERICA.

by

BEALE M. SCHMUCKER, D.D.

From the Lutheran Church Review, July, 1887.

Philadelphia: 1887.

The Organization of the Congregation in the Early Lutheran Churches in America.

The Lutheran Church in this country has had an opportunity, as never before in its history,
to determine for itself the whole form of its organization, uncontrolled by any external forces.
In the old world the intimate and organic union of the church with the State left little liberty
in this respect. When, therefore, the early Lutheran immigrants in this country were disposed
to form themselves into congregations, to adopt regulations for their own government, to settle
their relations to other Lutheran congregations, to determine the order of worship to be observed,
they had to feel their way in the dark. No little time passed before all these matters became
settled on a permanent basis. To follow them in their efforts to obtain a satisfactory organization
of the congregation, is what I propose now to do.

There is grave reason to doubt whether, prior to the arrival in Pennsylvania of Henry Melchior
Muehlenberg, any of the German Lutheran congregations in Pennsylvania had a well-developed,
clearly defined, written constitution. I have carefully examined all the written records of
nearly all the congregations which were in existence at that time, and have failed to find
evidence of any such constitution. The first known written constitution of the church at Philadelphia
was introduced in 1746 by Brunnholtz and Muehlenberg, and it was brief and rudimentary. The
congregation at the Swamp, New Hanover, was the earliest German congregation in America, begun
in 1703 by Justus Falckner, but whatever the form of organization which it may have received
from him, or his immediate successor, no record of it is known to exist, and the first written
constitution now known is in the hand-writing Muehlenberg. The Tulpehocken congregations were
established by Palatinates from the Hudson and Mohawk, who came to Pennsylvania in 1723 and
1729. They were familiar with the congregational organizations in New York under Kocherthal
and Falckner, which were formed under the counsel of Court Preacher Boehm, probably after the
similitude of the Savoy Church in London, and under the influence of the long established Dutch
Lutheran constitution in New York, based on that at Amsterdam. But no written constitution
is now known in Tulpehocken earlier than that introduced by Muehlenberg. In all the old congregations
the case is the same, so far as any known evidence proves.

In all the German congregations in Pennsylvania, however, an organization was found when Muehlenberg
came, which had arisen out of the necessities of the case, and in all of them it had the same
character. There were two orders of officers in each congregation, called Elders and Vorsteher,
elected by the members for a definite term. The open letter given by the congregations at Philadelphia,
Trappe and New Hanover, to their representatives sent to Europe in 1733, is signed by the Vorsteher
and Elders of the congregations, and there were like officers in these congregations when Muehlenberg
arrived, to whom he presented his credentials. The form of power of attorney sent by Dr. Francke
to be signed by the congregations in 1734, is addressed to the Elders and Vorsteher, and the
letter sent to Dr. Ziegenhagen in 1739, is signed by the Elders and Vorsteher. The proceedings
of the first meeting of the Ministerium of Pennsylvania show the presence of Deputy Elders
and Vorsteher from the ten congregations represented. Indeed, it may be said that in all the
congregations there were these two classes of officers. The distinction between the two classes
may not have been very clear, and sometimes both are spoken of as Vorsteher, but after a general
examination of their records, we are persuaded that it was a prevalent, if not universal usage
of the congregations, before Muehlenberg's arrival, to elect these two classes of officers,
to whom the direction of their affairs was intrusted. In the congregational constitution furnished
the Salzburg emigrants to Georgia in 1733 by Drs. Urlsperger, Ziegenhagen and Francke, based
on that of the Savoy Church at London, Elders and Deacons, annually elected by a majority of
the members, were provided for.

The question very naturally arises and claims consideration, Whence came this usage of the
Pennsylvania German Lutheran congregations? This arrangement is almost entirely unknown in
the Lutheran Church in Germany, where the church is united with the State, and has little right
of self-government. That the same mode of organization should have been adopted at the outset
by them all is not only in itself strange, but shows that this arrangement must have been brought
to their notice from some quarter, and having been tested commended itself to them. We believe
that this provision of Elders and Vorsteher or Deacons, was accepted by them from the Swedish
Lutheran Churches on the Delaware, the early Dutch Reformed and German Reformed Churches in
Pennsylvania, and the Dutch Lutheran Churches in New York and New Jersey, and ultimately from
the German Lutheran Church in London, and the Dutch Lutheran Church in Amsterdam. And as these
earlier organizations exerted an influence not merely upon the first shaping of the German
Lutheran congregations, but continuously upon the whole formation of their congregational constitutions,
until they assumed their final complete condition, it is the more proper that they should receive
careful consideration.

ORIGINAL SOURCES OF ORGANIZATION IN THE GERMAN LUTHERAN CHURCHES IN PENNSYLVANIA.

1. The Swedish Congregations. Acrelius, in his history of New Sweden, does not describe the
earliest organization of the congregation. The earliest mention Acrelius makes of congregational
officers, is in the time of Fabritius in 1684, when Church Wardens made an appeal to the members
with reference to the pastor's salary. In Sandel's time, 1702, new Church Wardens and Church
Councilmen were installed, which suggests that these two offices were found in the time of
Fabritius, so short a time previous. If this be a correct conclusion, the question would arise,
whether this arrangement was introduced by Fabritius, or was in existence from the beginning?
Fabritius was sent out from Amsterdam as the first settled pastor of the Dutch Lutheran congregations
in New York. If those congregations were not fully organized before he came, they were certainly
organized by him, and in either case after the type of that at Amsterdam. Fabritius founded
the Swedish congregation at Philadelphia, and it is very possible that he may have given it
a constitution like that of New York and Amsterdam. I do not know whether the congregations
in Sweden have any such arrangement as is found in the churches on the Delaware. I find the
office of Church Wardens mentioned in the Kirchen-Ordnung of Charles XI. in 1686, but am not
sure of the extent to which the office agrees with that in the Wicaco Church. Acrelius describes
the organization of this last-named congregation in Sandel's time, p. 216. "Pastor Sandel held
a parish meeting, installed new Church Wardens (Kyrkowaerdar) and Church Councilmen (Kyrkoraeder),
and at the same time explained to each of these their duties. Thus, 1.) The Councilmen were
to have the oversight of the preservation and improvement of the church and parsonage. 2.)
That each in his turn should look after the life of the people, and if any one should conduct
himself improperly, give timely notice of it to the pastor, so that with his concurrence and
advice, and according to the circumstances of the persons and their deeds, they might be brought
before the Church Council (Kyrkoraedet), and either admonished, placed on trial, or excluded
from the congregation. The office of the Church Wardens was: 1.) To collect and pay over the
Priests' salary twice a year; 2.) To take up the collections in the church, and the other church
dues, as for marriages, churching of women, burials, etc.; 3.) To take care of the poor of
the congregation; 4.) To keep the accounts of the church in good order and exhibit them annually
on the 1st of May; 5.) To provide the pay for the sexton, etc."

This whole arrangement bears a close resemblance to that of the Dutch Lutheran Churches, and
is virtually that found in the German Churches in Pennsylvania when Muehlenberg came. The Church
Council consisted of the minister, the councilmen and wardens. These lay officers served for
a fixed time, and were installed in their offices; but, unfortunately, it cannot be learned
from this account in what manner they were chosen. The above arrangement continued in force
until, in 1765, Provost Wrangel prepared a new constitution and secured a charter. In the new
instrument the officers of the congregation are styled Rector, Church Wardens and Vestrymen,
after the Anglican style. This constitution was wrought out by Wrangel in conference with Muehlenberg,
and the mode of selection of officers is almost precisely the same as in the German Constitution
of 1762: twice the number are nominated by those in office, and the election is by a majority
of votes of the congregation.

The Swedish congregation at Philadelphia, as well as those at Morlatton and Merion to a less
extent, undoubtedly exercised a marked influence on the German Lutheran congregations. It was
well organized long before establishment of the first German Lutheran congregation in America.
The pastor of the Wicaco Church from 1677 to 1693, Fabritius, was a German, and cared for such
German Lutherans as settled near the city. Rudman, who succeeded him, showed his interest in
the Germans by bringing Falckner into the ministry, and his successor, Sandel, united with
him in this act. Rudman preached in Dutch, and may have also understood German. The first regular
ministrant to the German congregation at Philadelphia was the Swede, John Eneberg, and it is
probable that it was organized by him. Pastor Dylander held service for the Germans regularly
in the Wicaco Church, and Muehlenberg's services were held there mainly until the erection
of St. Michael's. The Swedish ministers met with the Germans in the earlier meetings of the
ministerium. The relations between Provost Wrangel and Muehlenberg were of the most intimate
nature; they labored together as brothers in the superintendence of the congregations under
their care, and finally when Muehlenberg was working out the enduring constitution of the German
Church, Wrangel wrought out that of the Swedish Church. The German Church constitution was
prepared with the co-operation of Wrangel, and he attended the meeting of the congregation
at which it was accepted, and made an address. From the earliest times to the completion of
the final constitution, the influence of the Swedish organization was strongly felt.

2. The Reformed Churches in Pennsylvania. The Dutch Reformed congregations at Bensalem and
Neshaminy in Bucks County and at Whitemarsh, Montgomery County, were the earliest Reformed
Churches in Pennsylvania, and antedate all the German Lutheran congregations except that at
New Hanover. These Churches were organized in 1710 by Domine Paulus Van Vlecq, and in each
of them a senior and a senior elder and deacon were elected to serve for two years. The senior
went out of office annually, and the junior became senior, while the newly-elected officer
became the junior. The mode of election is not entirely clear. The record simply says at Bensalem:
"The Church Council, both Elders and Deacons, of Sammeny and Bensalem, were installed (bevestight)
by Dom. Van Vlecq May 21, 1710," the day after that given for the organization. They may have
been elected the previous day. At White Marsh the record says: "The church at Wytmess was organized
June 4, 1710, the same day the Church Council there was installed." The record of the Dutch
Reformed Church at Six Mile Run, near New Brunswick, N. J., organized November 15, 1710, says:
"The Church Council was elected Nov. 15, and after having been announced three times, was installed."
At the next election it is said: "Anno 1711, Oct. 23, the Church Council was elected, and after
having been three times announced without objection made, they were installed Oct. 24," on
which date also the treasurer presented his account. There must have been several services
on those two days, at each of which the names of those elected were published. It does not
appear in what manner the choice was made. They may have been selected by those in office,
and when no objection was made after publication, the consent of the congregation was supposed
to be given, or they may have been chosen by vote of the congregation. I am assured by Dr.
Talbot W. Chambers, of the Collegiate Church in New York, that both of these modes are and
have long been usual in the Reformed Churches, and that in the old mother congregation at New
York, now enlarged to be the Collegiate Church, the former mode of selection has been used
ever since its establishment. These officers were named Elders (Ouderlinge) and Deacons (Diaconen),
who, with the Pastor, formed the Church Council (Kerckenraet). They were not chosen for life,
but in this country, as in Holland, for a fixed term, usually two years. This organization
of the Dutch Reformed congregations in this country agrees, entirely with that of the Reformed
Church in Holland, as described by Benthem in his "Hollaendische Kirchen und Schul Staat,"
except that in Holland the pastors and elders alone form the Church Council; but there the
deacons are also admitted to it in feeble congregations where the number of elders was small.
Another feature of the organization of the Dutch Reformed Churches is that, in important cases,
all who have ever held the office of elder or deacon are called together to give counsel. The
Dutch churches here named were situated near to our Lutheran people, and they were the earliest
formed among the Reformed or Lutherans, and must naturally have had an influence on their neighbors.
In the Neshaminy settlement were found representatives of three religious bodies: there were
Dutch Lutherans, who were afterward visited by Muehlenberg, Swedish Lutherans ministered to
by the Wicaco pastors, and in largest numbers Dutch Reformed, with resident pastors, with whom
the Scotch-Irish Presbyterian settlers coalesced. The Swedish pastors certainly held services
in the Reformed Church, and I have no doubt that Muehlenberg's services were held in the same
church, as the Lutherans were few and never had a separate building.

The German Reformed congregations in Philadelphia, 1727, Germantown, Skippach, 1720, Goschenhoppen,
1731, Saucon, 1731, Egypt, 1731, Oley, 1731, Mosellem, 1731, and therefore in general throughout
the district between the Schuylkill and Delaware, were formed somewhat earlier than the Lutheran
congregations in their vicinity. As the members of the two religious bodies were closely intermarried
and often worshipped in the same buildings, it is self-evident that the earlier organizations
must have had an important influence on the later. Beside this, in Europe, especially in Holland,
but also in Germany, there was a fuller self-government in the Reformed congregations than
prevailed in the Lutheran in Germany. Their system was, therefore, better adapted for transplanting
to a new country, where there was no connection between Church and State. The earliest German
Reformed pastors came by way of Holland, and were aided by the church of that country, so that
we may expect to find a close similarity between the Reformed organizations in this country,
both German and Dutch, and we will not be disappointed in this. In his "Historic Manual of
the Reformed Church," Rev. Dr. J. H. Dubbs shows such familiarity with the condition and history
of the Reformed congregations from the beginning, that it was natural that we should turn to
him, as a personal friend through many years, for reliable information as to the form of organization
in the older congregation. In answer he says: "There can, I think, be no doubt that the offices
of elder and deacon were brought over from the Fatherland, precisely as we have them at present.
Max Goebel informs us (Geschichte des Chr. Lebens, vol. ii., p. 76) that in the Reformed Churches
of the Rhine country, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, elders were always elected
with prayer in the presence of the most prominent members of the congregation. Ordinarily the
election was conducted by the Consistory: sometimes by the congregation itself, a double number
of candidates being proposed by the retiring members of the Consistory. Every year one-half
of the elders retired from office. The deacons were elected in the same manner as the elders.
Their office had special reference to the wants of the poor. The election of elders for life
was entirely unknown in the Dutch and German churches. Such is Goebel's account. I have few
documents of an earlier date than 1740; but between that date and 1760 there are many in which
both offices are mentioned. I have a document of 1730 signed by the 'AEltesten' of the Reformed
Church at Philadelphia. A petition in English, addressed in 1732 to Governor Gordon, is signed
by seven 'Ancients' of the same congregation. Here four of the names are new, showing an intervening
election. The deacons are not mentioned, but would naturally not appear in a document of that
kind. Most of the early letters are addressed to the 'AElteste und Diaconen' of the several
churches. The rules for the Government of the Reformed Church at Amwell, N. J., 1749, are signed
by the 'AElteste und Diaconen oder Vorsteher.' It seems, therefore, that the two terms were
used interchangeably. With regard to the points of doubt you suggest, I can only say:

"1. The two distinct orders, elders and deacons, have certainly existed from the beginning
in the American churches.

"2. The name of the second order in German is either Diacon or Vorsteher; the former name probably
more ecclesiastical, the latter more popular.

"3. The term of office was always fixed, but the period varied in different congregations.
There was no life term, except in the ministry.

"4. The mode of selection probably varied in different churches as it does now. I imagine that
in most churches the most prominent members met on an appointed day to hold the annual 'Kirchenrechnung,'
and then quietly 'made out,' without a formal election, who were to fill the vacancies in the
consistory. Very frequently, no doubt, retiring members nominated their own successors, to
be approved or rejected by the congregational meeting." This clear description of German Reformed
usage shows how great similarity there was in this respect between the American Reformed descendants
of Hollanders and Germans. These Swedish and Reformed modes of congregational organization
were here fully in operation in the territory on which our earliest German congregations were
established.

3. The Lutheran Congregations at Amsterdam and London. The constitution of the Lutheran Church
at Amsterdam is the most important and influential original source of Lutheran congregational
organizations in America. It is the model from which the constitution of the Dutch Lutheran
Churches in New York and New Jersey are directly derived. It is the original source of the
constitution of the Savoy Church in London, which claims to be a simple translation of it,
with some modifications. The Amsterdam constitution was, therefore, the immediate basis of
the congregations in New York City, Albany, Loonenburg, Hackensack, on the Raritan, and of
other congregations in New York founded by Falckner, Berkenmeyer and Knoll. The London constitution
was the on which the congregations founded by Kocherthal at East and West Camp, Rhinebeck,
Newburg, Schoharie, and those which grew out of them all along the Hudson and Mohawk rested,
modified by the influence of the previously existing organizations, based on the Amsterdam
constitution. So that is may be said that the Amsterdam constitution, with the modifications
made at London, is the source of organization for all the older congregations in New York and
upper New Jersey. In Pennsylvania, if my surmise that the Swedish Wicaco Church received its
constitution through Fabritius from New York be correct, the Amsterdam constitution underlies
the Swedish organization, the influence of which on the German churches we have described.
The London book was in the hands of Muehlenberg and the other German pastors in Penna., given
to them by Ziegenhagen in London. Muehlenberg became acquainted with the Dutch Lutheran constitution,
based on that of Amsterdam, in 1745, at the Raritan, and in 1750-1752 at New York and Hackensack,
where for two summers he was pastor of congregations in which it prevailed. His estimate of
it was very favorable; he says: "These Pastors (of the Dutch Church in New York) introduced
a constitution, which they have prepared after the model of that of the Evangelical Lutheran
Church in Amsterdam, and it was subscribed by them, as well as by the Elders and Deacons, and
hitherto the Agende of Amsterdam has been used, all which were very well suited to the circumstances
in America, and served to edification." The influence of these two constitutions, of Amsterdam
and London, on those by whom the gradual completion of the work of organization in Penna. was
made was very prominent. The London Constitution was the basis of that furnished by Ziegenhagen,
Urlsperger and Francke to the Salzburgers, who settled in Georgia, and exerted an important
influence on later congregations in that State and in the Carolinas. Having had the continuous
approbation and commendation of Boehme and Ziegenhagen, court preachers at London, by whom,
to so large an extent, the German immigration to this country was directed and counselled in
religious matters, to whom nearly all correspondence was primarily directed, and who stood
so near to the sovereign of the colonies, by whom also the calls to the Halle Missionaries
were given them though the men were chosen at Halle; this constitution came to the Halle Missionaries
clothed with great weight of authority. It is, therefore, right and proper, that above all
others, these two constitutions should receive our careful examination. As that of Amsterdam
is the earlier, and the original basis of the other, we will first describe it, and then show
the modifications made at London.

The Constitution of Amsterdam was originally adopted in 1597 and bore the title "Kerkelijke
Ordonnantie, for the government, in the doctrines of the Divine Word, administration of the
Sacraments and other matters pertaining to the administration of the Church, of the Congregation
and Church at Amsterdam, which assembles in a house and adheres to the genuine unaltered Augsburg
Confession, prepared and established by the Ministers and Deputies there, in the year of Christ
1597." The congregation dates from about 1588, and built its first church in 1632, before which
time it worshiped in a house arranged for its use, but not having the form of a church. This
constitution was revised in 1614, and in 1644 it was accepted as the general constitution for
the Lutheran churches in the Netherlands. In 1682 it was materially changed and brought in
the shape which it afterwards retained. The original form of 1597, with the changes made in
1614 and 1682 indicated in foot notes, is given in full in the "Geschiedenis der Amsterdamsche
Luthersche Gemecnte, door F. J. Domela Nieuwenhuis, Amsterdam, 1876, 8vo. pp. 298, 124." Appendix
pp.32-62. It is very full and minute in its provisions and covers thirty octavo pages. A German
translation of the edition of 1682 is given in Benthem's Hollaendische Kirch und Schul Staat,
Francfurt, 1698. It is divided into two parts.

Part I. Chapter I. Of Doctrine. "The pastors of this congregation shall regulate and determine
all their teaching and preaching by the rule of the divine Word, the biblical, prophetical
and apostolical writings, and according to our Symbolical Books, to wit:--the unaltered Augsburg
Confession, delivered to Charles V., Anno 30, the Apology of the same, the Smalcald Articles,
and Formula of Concord, together with both Catechisms of Luther throughout, and shall not teach
or preach anything contrary to the same, be it privately or publicly, nor shall they introduce
or use new phrases (forms of statement) which are at variance with the same, or contradict
them. In like manner in all points in dispute between us and others, they shall be guided and
governed by the aforesaid Scriptures and also the aforesaid Symbolical Books, and shall decide
and judge them by these alone, and shall plainly declare the foundation and understanding thereof
to the congregation. They shall also order and direct all their preaching to the edification
of the congregation, in such wise that the Word of God may be taught purely and clearly, the
true doctrine be distinguished from the false and the true doctrine be urged on the people
so that they may understand how to guard themselves against false teaching and teachers." This
chapter is long and defines the whole obligations of the preachers of the Word. Chapter 2.
Of the times and places of assemblage for the preaching of the divine Word. Chapter 3. Of the
Sacrament of Holy Baptism. Chapter 4. Of the Sermon of Repentance (Boetpredicatien) and the
absolution before the administration of the Lord's Supper. Chapter 5. Of the administration
of the Most Holy Supper. Chapter 6. Of Christian Discipline and the Ban. Chapter 7. Of Marriage.
Chapter 8. Of the Visitation of the Sick and of the Poor, who cannot come to church. Chapter
9. Of the Burial of the Dead.

Part II. The Christelijcke Ordonnantie of the Congregation in Amsterdam, of the Conventu Ecclesiastico
or Consistory, of the Calling, Office, Ministrations of the Preachers, Deputies (Deputy Elders
1682) and Deacons. Chapter 1. 'Of the Consistory. To the Consistory belong the Preachers, with
the Deputy Elders (Gedeputierden Ouderlingen); such other persons may attend as by the usage
of the Congregation are called thereto. At the meetings first of all the Holy Spirit shall
be invoked, in prayer, and the session shall close with the giving of thanks. The oldest Pastor
shall preside, and he, or the oldest Elder, shall present the matters for consideration, call
on each for his opinion, and take the vote. In matters of doctrine, where we have the Word
of God, the Preachers alone shall decide according to the same (after consultation with the
Elders, 1682), but in matters of government the majority shall decide. In matters of great
importance, as the calling of the Preacher, all former Elders, and also the Deacons, shall
be called to take counsel and the majority of all votes shall decide (1682 all former Elders,
called Oudste Raeden, and all former Deacons). Occasions of discipline of Preachers, Elders,
Deacons, or other members were subject to action by the Consistory.

Chapter 2. Of the Call, Office, Duties, Salary and Dismissal of Preachers. The Call, which
consists in a nomination and an election, shall be made by the Preachers, Deputy Elders, former
Elders (Oudste Raeden), Ruling Deacons and former Deacons (Oude Diaconen). The Candidate, if
previously a Pastor, must present testimonials from his previous charge of his irreproachable
life and of his adherence to the pure doctrine of our Confession and our Symbolical Books,
or if unordained be fully examined and approved, and his ordination promised by the proper
authorities, and he must subscribe and obey this constitution with all its provisions. Provision
is made for the trial of all charges against a Preacher. The widow of a Pastor receives his
salary for nine months after his death.

Chapter 3. Of the Call and Office of the Deputy Elders. The congregation is exhorted on the
Sunday before election to pray God that pious and devout men may be chosen. The Preachers,
Elders and Deacons select twice the number of persons to be elected, whose names are publicly
presented to the congregation, and any who have well-founded objection to make against any
one proposed, is exhorted to present it. At the election the Preachers, Elders, former Elders,
Deacons, former Deacons, and the contributing members of the congregation, in this order, present
their votes, and those who receive most votes are chosen. The elders elected must present themselves
before the congregation, answer publicly the questions as to their confession of faith, promise
faithfully to fulfill the duties of their office, and be installed, with the laying on of hands
and prayer. Their duties are described at length, and in summary are these: 1. To watch that
the Word be purely preached by pious Preachers, the sacraments administered as Christ commanded,
and the constitution observed. 2. To see that the Preachers and other ministrants duly and
promptly receive their salaries. 3. Watch over the congregation that all sin, shame and offence
be avoided. 4. Keep accurate account of all expenditures. 5. After their term of office expires
attend all meetings of the Consistory when called. 6. Carry out, when they enter upon their
office, all measures taken by their predecessors for the peace and prosperity of the congregation.
7. On all festive and Sunday services stand at the church doors with plates to receive the
offerings for the use of the church.

Chapter 4. Of the Call, Office and Duties of the Deacons. The Deacons are elected at the same
time, place, and in all respects in the same manner as the Elders, and they also are installed
exactly as the Elders. Their duties are these: Like the Elders to collect the offerings at
the church doors made for the poor, and to keep an account of the receipts in a separate book;
annually to visit the families of the congregation and receive their offerings for the poor,
and to use and apply these gifts for the benefit of the poor; when distinguished and wealthy
Lutherans visit the place to call upon them and ask an offering for the poor; to receive all
legacies intended for the poor, and to keep an account of all these receipts. Then follow full
directions for the care and relief of the poor, the needy, the stranger, with a thoroughly
organized system for the whole work. The Deacons have nothing to do with the general affairs
of the congregation, but are charged with the care of the poor and needy, and with this alone.

