A boy that leaves school and shifts for himself by blacking boots, selling papers, and "swiping"
fruit often appears much smarter than a boy of the same age who is going to school all the
time and does not see so much of the world. A boy of twelve who has lived by his wits is often
keener than a boy of the same age who has been well brought up at home and at school, but such
a boy knows about as much and is about as much of a man at twelve as he will ever be, while
the boy that gets an education becomes more and more of a man as long as he lives.

But this might be said a thousand times to every truant, and it would have very little effect,
because he thinks that he will be an exception. He never sees beyond his own boyish smartness.
Few men and women realize how true it is that these smart rascally fellows, who persist in
remaining in ignorance, are to be the vicious, pauper, criminal class who are to fill the dens
of vice, the poorhouses, and the prisons; who are to be burglars, highwaymen, and murderers.
In place of opinions, it is well sometimes to present facts so clear and definite that they
cannot be forgotten.

R.A. Dugdale, of New York State, began the study of "The Jukes" family in 1874, and in 1877
in the twentieth annual report of the New York Prison Commission he made a statement of the
results.[Footnote: G.P. Putnam's Sons, New York, reprinted this study in "The Jukes."] This
brief summary of "the Jukes" is based upon the facts which Mr. Dugdale has published.

"The Jukes" is a name given to a large family of degenerates. It is not the real name of any
family, but a general term applied to forty-two different names borne by those in whose veins
flows the blood of one man. The word "jukes" means "to roost." It refers to the habit of fowls
to have no home, no nest, no coop, preferring to fly into the trees and roost away from the
places where they belong. The word has also come to mean people who are too indolent and lazy
to stand up or sit up, but sprawl out anywhere. "The Jukes" are a family that did not make
good homes, did not provide themselves with comforts, did not work steadily. They are like
hens that fly into the trees to roost.

The father of "The Jukes" Mr. Dugdale styled "Max." He was born about 1720 of Dutch stock.
Had he remained with his home folk in the town and been educated, and thrifty like the rest
of the boys, he might have given the world a very different kind of family from "The Jukes."

Max was a jolly good fellow and not very bad. He was popular and he could tell a good story
that made everybody laugh. Of course he was vulgar, such jolly good fellows are usually vulgar.
He would not go to school, because he did not like it. He would not stay in evenings, for he
did not like that. He did not enjoy being talked to, but always wanted to talk himself, and
to talk to boys who would laugh at his yarns. He would not work for he did not like it. He
wanted to go fishing, hunting, and trapping; so he left home early and took to the woods.

Max liked nature. He thought he was lots better than town people because he knew more about
nature. He found a lovely spot on the border of a beautiful lake in New York State, where the
rocks are grand, the waters lovely, the forest glorious. There was never a more charming place
in which to be good and to love God than this place where Max built his shanty about 1750.
But he did not go there to worship or to be good. He went simply to get away from good people,
to get where he would not have to work, and where he would not be preached to, and this beautiful
spot became a notorious cradle of crime. Nature is lovely, but it makes all the difference
in the world how we know nature and why we love it.

In 1874 Richard L. Dugdale was employed by the New York Prison Commission to visit the prisons
of the state. In this visit he was surprised to find criminals in six different prisons whose
relatives were mostly criminals or paupers, and the more surprised to discover that these six
criminals, under four different names, were all descended from the same family. This led Mr.
Dugdale to study their relatives, living and dead. He gave himself up to this work with great
zeal, studying the court and prison records, reports of town poorhouses, and the testimony
of old neighbors and employers. He learned the details of 540 descendants of Max in five generations.
He learned the exact facts about 169 who married into the family. It is customary to count
as of a family the men who marry into it. He traced in part others, which carried the number
up to 1,200 persons of the family of the Jukes.

The Jukes rarely married foreign-born men or women, so that it may be styled a distinctively
American family. The almost universal traits of the family were idleness, ignorance, and vulgarity.
They would not work, they could not be made to study, and they loved vulgarity. These characteristics
led to disease and disgrace, to pauperism and crime. They were a disgustingly diseased family
as a whole. There were many imbeciles and many insane. Those of "the Jukes" who tended to pauperism
were rarely criminal, and those who were criminal were rarely paupers. The sick, the weak,
and goody-goody ones were almost all paupers; the healthy, strong ones were criminals.

It is a well-known fact in sociology that criminals are of three classes: First, those who
direct crime, the capitalists in crime, who are rarely arrested, who seldom commit any crime,
but inspire men to crime in various ways. These are intelligent and have to be educated to
some extent. They profit by crime and take slight risks.

Second, those who commit heroic crimes and find some satisfaction in the skill and daring required.
Safe-breaking, train robbery, and some types of burglary require men of ability and pluck,
and those who do these things have a species of pride in it.

Third, those who commit weak and imbecile crimes, which mark the doer as a sneak and a coward.
These men rob hen roosts, waylay helpless women and old men, steal clothing in hallways, and
burn buildings. They are always cowardly about everything they do, and never have the pluck
to steal chickens even until they are half drunk. They often commit murder, but only when they
are detected in some sneaking crime and shoot because they are too cowardly to face their discoverer.

Now the Jukes were almost never of the first or second class. They could not be criminals that
required capital, brains, education or nerve. Even the kind of pauperism and crime in which
they indulged was particularly disgraceful. This is inevitably true of all classes of people
who combine idleness, ignorance, and vulgarity. They are not even respectable among criminals
and paupers.

There is an honorable pauperism. It is no disgrace to be poor or to be in a poorhouse if there
is a good reason for it. One may be manly in poverty. But the Jukes were never manly or honorable
paupers, they were weaklings among paupers.

They were a great expense to the state, costing in crime and pauperism more than $1,250,000.
Taken as a whole, they not only did not contribute to the world's prosperity, but they cost
more than $1,000 a piece, including all men, women, and children, for pauperism and crime.

Those who worked did the lowest kind of service and received the smallest wages. Only twenty
of the 1,200 learned a trade, and ten of those learned it in the state prison. Even they were
not regularly employed. Men who work regularly even at unskilled labor are generally honest
men and provide for the family. A habit of irregular work is a species of mental or moral weakness,
or both. A man or woman who will not stick to a job is morally certain to be a pauper or a
criminal.

One great benefit of going to school, especially of attending regularly for eight or ten months
each year for nine years or more, is that it establishes a habit of regularity and persistency
in effort. The boy who leaves school to go to work does not necessarily learn to work steadily,
but often quite the reverse. Few who graduate from a grammar school, or who take the equivalent
course in a rural school, fail to be regular in their habits of effort. This accounts in part
for the fact that few unskilled workmen ever graduated from a grammar school. Scarcely any
of the Jukes were ever at school any considerable time. Probably no one of them ever had so
much as a completed rural school education.

It is very difficult to find anyone who is honest and industrious, pure and prosperous, who
has not had a fair education, if he ever had the opportunity, as all children in the United
States now have. It is an interesting fact developed from a study of the Jukes that it is much
easier to reform a criminal than a pauper.

Here are a few facts by way of conclusion. On the basis of the facts gathered by Mr. Dugdale,
310 of the 1,200 were professional paupers, or more than one in four. These were in poorhouses
or its equivalent for 2,300 years.

Three hundred of the 1,200, or one in four, died in infancy from lack of good care and good
conditions.

There were fifty women who lived lives of notorious debauchery.

Four hundred men and women were physically wrecked early by their own wickedness.

There were seven murderers.

Sixty were habitual thieves who spent on the average twelve years each in lawless depredations.

There were 130 criminals who were convicted more or less often of crime.

What a picture this presents! Some slight improvement was apparent when Mr. Dugdale closed
his studies. This resulted from evening schools, from manual training schools, from improved
conditions of labor, from the later methods of treating prisoners.

CHAPTER II

A STUDY OF JONATHAN EDWARDS

The story of the Jukes as published by Mr. Dugdale has been the text of a multitude of sermons,
the theme of numberless addresses, the inspiration of no end of editorials and essays. For
twenty years there was a call for a companion picture. Every preacher, orator, and editor who
presented the story of the Jukes, with its abhorrent features, wanted the facts for a cheery,
comforting, convincing contrast. This was not to be had for the asking. Several attempts had
been made to find the key to such a study without discovering a person of the required prominence,
born sufficiently long ago, with the necessary vigor of intellect and strength of character
who established the habit of having large families.

In 1897 a professional scholarly organization--to which the author has the honor to belong--assigned
to him, without his knowledge or consent, the duty of preparing an essay upon Jonathan Edwards
for the May meeting of 1898. The study then begun led to a search for the facts regarding his
family, and when it came to light that one of Jonathan Edwards' descendants presided over the
New York Prison Commission when it employed Mr. Dugdale to make a study of the Jukes, the appropriateness
of the contrast was more than ever apparent.

In this study the sources of information are the various genealogies of families in which the
descendants of Mr. Edwards play a part, various town histories and church and college publications,
but chiefly the biographical dictionaries and encyclopaedias in which the records of the men
of the family are chronicled. It would be impossible to follow out the positions occupied by
the various members but for the pride they all feel in recording the fact that they are descendants
of Jonathan Edwards. A good illustration of this may be had in the current announcements of
the marvelously popular novel, "Richard Carvel," in which it is always emphasized that Mr.
Winston Churchill, the author, is a descendant of Jonathan Edwards.

Only two Americans established a considerable and permanent reputation in the world of European
thought prior to the present century,--Benjamin Franklin and Jonathan Edwards. In 1736, Dr.
Isaac Watts published in England Mr. Edwards' account of the beginning of the great awakening
in the Connecticut valley. Here more than a century and a half ago, when the colonies were
small, their future unsuspected and the ability of their leaders unrecognized, Jonathan Edwards
"erected the standard of Orthodoxy for enlightened Protestant Europe." Who can estimate the
eloquence of that simple fact? Almost everything of his which was published in the colonies
was speedily republished in England. Of what other American philosopher and theologian has
this been true? Here are a few of the tributes to Mr. Edwards:

Daniel Webster: "The Freedom of the Will" by Mr. Edwards is the greatest achievement of the
human intellect.

Dr. Chalmers: The greatest of theologians.

Robert Hall: He was the greatest of the sons of men.

Dugald Stewart: Edwards on the Will never was answered and never will be answered.

Encyclopaedia: One of the greatest metaphysicians of his age.

Edinburgh Review: One of the acutest and most powerful of reasoners.

London Quarterly Review: His gigantic specimen of theological argument is as near to perfection
as we may expect any human composition to approach. He unites the sharpness of the scimetar
and the strength of the battle-axe.

Westminster Review: From the days of Plato there has been no life of more simple and imposing
grandeur than that of Jonathan Edwards.

President McCosh, of Princeton: The greatest thinker that America has produced.

Lyman Beecher: A prince among preachers. In our day there is no man who comes within a thousand
miles of him.

Griswold's Prose Writers: The first man of the world during the second quarter of the eighteenth
century.

Hollister's History of Connecticut: The most gifted man of the eighteenth century, perhaps
the most profound thinker in the world.

Moses Coit Tyler: The most original and acute thinker yet produced in America.

This is the man whose intellectual life has thrilled in the mental activity of more than 1,400
men and women of the past century and a half, and which has not lost its virtue or its power
in all these years.

England and Scotland are not wont to sit at our feet even in this day, and yet they sat at
the feet of Jonathan Edwards as in the presence of a master when he was a mere home missionary,
living among the Indians, to whom he preached every Lord's day.

The birth of fame is always an interesting study. It is easy to play the part of a rocket if
one can sizzle, and flash, and rise suddenly in darkness, but to take one's place among luminaries
and shine with permanent brilliancy is so rare an experience as to present a fascinating study.

Jonathan Edwards was twenty-eight years of age, had been the pastor of a church on the frontier,
as Northampton was, for four years without any notable experience, when he was invited to preach
the annual sermon before the association of ministers at Boston. Never since that day have
Boston and Harvard been more thoroughly the seat of culture and of intellectual power than
then. It was a remarkable event for a young man of twenty-eight to be invited to come from
the Western limit of civilization and preach the annual sermon before the philosophical, theological,
and scholastic masters of the East. This sermon was so powerful that the association published
it. This was his first appearance in print. So profoundly moved by this effort were the churches
of New England that the clergymen generally gave public thanks to the Head of the Church for
raising up so great a teacher and preacher. Thus was born the fame of Jonathan Edwards.

It is nearly 170 years since then. Science and invention, enterprise and ambition have done
great things for America and for Americans. We have mighty universities, libraries, and laboratories,
but we have no man who thinks more clearly, writes more logically, speaks more vigorously than
did Jonathan Edwards, and we have never had such a combination of spirit and power in any other
American. This mastery is revealing itself in various ways in hundreds of his descendants to-day,
and it has never ceased to do it since his blood gave tonic to the thought and character of
his children and his children's children.

CHAPTER III

THE INHERITANCE AND TRAINING OF MR. EDWARDS

No man can have the intellectual power, nobility of character, and personal grandeur of Jonathan
Edwards and transmit it to his children's children for a century and a half who has not himself
had a great inheritance. The whole teaching of the culture of animals and plants leaves no
room to question the persistency of character, and this is so grandly exemplified in the descendants
of Mr. Edwards that it is interesting to see what inheritances were focused in him.

It is not surprising to find that the ancestors of Mr. Edwards were cradled in the intellectual
literary activities of the days of Queen Elizabeth. The family is of Welsh origin and can be
traced as far as 1282, when Edward, the conquerer, appeared. His great-great-grandfather, Richard
Edwards, who went from Wales to London about 1580, was a clergyman in the Elizabethan period.
Those were days which provided tonic for the keenest spirits and brightest minds and professional
men profited most from the influence of Spencer, Bacon, and Shakespeare.

Among the first men to come to the new colonies in New England was William, a son of this clergyman,
born about 1620, who came to Hartford, where his son Richard, born 1647, the grandfather of
Jonathan, was an eminently prosperous merchant. Richard was an only son. The father of Jonathan,
Timothy Edwards, was an only son in a family of seven. Aristocracy was at its height in the
household of the merchants of Hartford in the middle of the seventeenth century.

Harvard was America's only college, and it was a great event for a young man to go from Hartford
to Harvard, but this Timothy Edwards did, and he took all attainable honors, graduating in
1661, taking the degrees of A.B. and A.M. the same day, "an uncommon mark of respect paid extraordinary
proficiency in learning." This brilliant graduate of Harvard was soon settled over the church
at East Windsor, Conn., where he remained sixty-five years as pastor.

Who can estimate the inheritance which comes to a child of such a pastor who had been born
in a merchant's home. In the four generations which stood behind Jonathan Edwards were two
merchants and two preachers, a grand combination for manly and intellectual power.

In this pastor's home Jonathan Edwards was born October 5, 1703. Those were days in which great
men came into the world. There were born within fifteen years of Jonathan Edwards a wonderful
array of thinkers along religious and philosophic lines, men who have molded the thought and
lives of a multitude of persons. Among these intellectual giants born within fifteen years
of Mr. Edwards were John Wesley, George Whitefield, Swedenborg, Voltaire, Rousseau, and Hume.

In order to appreciate the full significance of Mr. Edwards' legacy to the world, it is well
to study some conditions of his life. It would not be easy to find a man whose surroundings
and training in childhood were better than those of Jonathan Edwards. The parsonage on the
banks of the Connecticut was a delightful home. His parents and his grandparents were ideal
American Christian educated persons. He was prepared for college by his father and mother.
He was a devout little Christian before he was twelve years of age. When he was but ten years
old he, with two other lads about his own age, made a booth of branches in a retired spot in
a neighboring wood, where the three went daily for a season of prayer.

He began the study of Latin at six and at twelve had a good preparation for college in Latin,
Greek, and Hebrew, all of which had come from home study. He not only knew books, but he knew
nature and loved her. From early childhood to advanced years this remained true. He entered
Yale college at twelve years of age. In a letter which he wrote while a college freshman he
speaks of himself as a child. Not many freshmen take that view of themselves, but a lad of
twelve, away from home at college could have been little more than a child.

He was the fifth in a family of eleven children, so that he had no lack of companionship from
both older and younger sisters. The older sisters had contributed much to his preparation for
college. They were a never-failing source of inspiration. At fourteen he read in a masterly
way "Locke on the Human Understanding." It took a powerful hold on his mind and greatly affected
his life. In a letter to his father he asked a special favor that he might have a copy of "The
Art of Thinking," not because it was necessary to his college work, but because he thought
it would be profitable.

While still in his teens he wrote a series of "Resolutions," the like of which it would be
difficult to duplicate in the case of any other youth. These things are dwelt upon as indicating
the way in which every fibre of his being was prepared for the great moral and intellectual
legacy he left his children and his children's children. Here are ten of his seventy resolutions:

Resolved, to do whatever I think to be my duty, and most for the good and advantage of mankind
in general.

Resolved, so to do, whatever difficulties I meet with, how many soever, and how great soever.

Resolved, to be continually endeavoring to find out some new contrivance and invention to promote
the forementioned things.

Resolved, never to lose one moment of time, but to improve it in the most profitable way I
possibly can.

Resolved, to live with all my might while I do live.

Resolved, to be endeavoring to find out fit objects of charity and liberality.

Resolved, never to do anything out of revenge.

Resolved, never to suffer the least motions of anger towards irrational beings.

Resolved, never to speak evil of any one, so that it shall tend to his dishonor, more or less,
upon no account except for some real good.

Resolved, to maintain the strictest temperance in eating and drinking.

Yale in the days of Mr. Edwards was not the Yale of the closing year of the nineteenth century.
It has now 2,500 students and has had 19,000 graduates. It had a very humble beginning in March,
1702, the year before Mr. Edwards was born. It began with one lone student. The father of Jonathan
Edwards had been greatly interested in the starting of the college. In 1701, Rev. Mr. Russell,
of Branford, a graduate of Harvard, as was the senior Edwards, invited to his home ten other
Connecticut pastors of whom nine were graduates of Harvard. Each brought from his library some
of his most valuable books, and laying them upon Mr. Russell's table, said: "I give these books
for the founding of a college in this colony." This produced a profound impression upon the
clergymen of Connecticut, notably upon the graduates of Harvard. The first year the college
was nominally located at Saybrook, but as there was only one student he lived with the president
at Killingworth, now Clinton, nine miles away.

When Jonathan Edwards, a lad of twelve, entered college, there had been, all told, only about
fifty graduates. It was during the time that he was a student that the college took the name
of Yale. The first year he was there the college was in three places at the same time because
of dissensions among the students, and the very small class graduated in two places because
neither faction would go to the other place. In all these agitations Mr. Edwards took no part.
He simply devoted himself to his studies and followed the line of least resistance so far as
taking sides in a senseless controversy was concerned. After graduation he remained at Yale
two years for post-graduate work, mostly in theology, and then accepted an invitation to preach
for the leading Presbyterian church in New York City; but after eight months he returned to
Yale as a tutor and remained two years.

At this time he was very severe in discipline, bending every energy to securing the right conditions
for the most and best work. This is what he wrote in his diary when he was twenty-one:

"By a sparingness in diet, and eating, as much as may be, what is light and easy of digestion,
I shall doubtless be able to think more clearly, and shall gain time:

1. By lengthening out my life.

2. Shall need less time for digestion after meals.

3. Shall be able to study more closely, without injury to my health.

4. Shall need less time for sleep.

5. Shall more seldom be troubled with the headache."

Mr. Edwards was twenty-three years of age when he was ordained at Northampton as associate
pastor with his grandfather Stoddard, then in his 84th year, and the 54th year of his pastorate.
Soon after this Mr. Stoddard died and Mr. Edwards became pastor in full charge and remained
for twenty-five years. He was a great student and thinker. He rose at four o'clock and spent
thirteen hours a day in his study. It is worth while to follow the personal intellectual habits
of the man whose descendants we are to study. When he was ready for the consideration of a
great subject he would set apart a week for it and mounting his horse early Monday morning
would start off for the hills and forests. When he had thought himself up to a satisfactory
intensity he would alight, fasten his horse, go off into the woods and think himself through
that particular stage of the argument, then he would pin a bit of paper on some particular
place on his coat as a reminder of the conclusion he had reached. He would then ride on some
miles further and repeat the experience. Not infrequently he would be gone the entire week
on a thinking expedition, returning with the front of his coat covered with the scalps of intellectual
victories. Without stopping for any domestic salutations he would go at once to his study and
taking off these bits of paper in the same order in which he had put them on would carefully
write out his argument. In nothing did Jonathan Edwards stand out so clearly as boy, youth
and man as in his sacrifice of every other feature of his life for the attainment of power
as a thinker.

Mr. Edwards has gone into history as a theologian of the most stalwart character. It is undeniable
that he preached the most terrific doctrine ever uttered by an American leader, but this was
only the logical result of the intellectual projection of his effort to make sacrifices in
order to benefit humanity. As a child he sacrificed everything for health and virtue that he
might have influence, and as a man he knew no other plan or purpose in life. His masterpiece
is upon the "will" which he developed to the full in himself.

The greatest religious awakening that the Western world has ever known was started in his church
at Northampton, not over ecclesiastical differences, or theological discussion but over a question
of morality among the young people of the town. It had to do with the impropriety of the young
ladies entertaining their gentlemen friends on Sunday evenings and especially of their allowing
them to remain to such unreasonable hours. And the issue which ultimately drove him from his
pastorate, after twenty-five years of service, by an almost unanimous vote was not one of ecclesiasticism
or theology, but of morals among the young people. He insisted upon vigorous action in relation
to the loose and as he thought immoral reading of the youth of the town. As this involved some
prominent families he had to retire from the pastorate.

The views of Mr. Edwards on pastoral work reveal the singleness of purpose of the man as a
student and thinker. He never made pastoral calls. He had no criticism to make of those pastors
who had talent for entertaining people by occasional calls, but as he had no gifts in that
direction he regarded it advisable to use his time in cultivating such talents as he had. Whoever
wished to talk with him about personal, moral or religious conditions found in him a profitable
counsellor. In his preaching, which was equal to anything America has ever known, he made no
attempt to win his hearers by tricks of oratory or by emotional appeals, though he had a most
fascinating personality. He was six feet in height, slender in form, with a high, broad forehead,
eyes piercing and luminous and a serene countenance. In the pulpit he was graceful, easy, natural
and earnest, though he had little action. He rested his left elbow on the pulpit and held his
manuscript in his left hand while with his right he turned the leaves. In him were combined
the intellectual and moral vigor which are calculated to make the progenitor of a great family.

CHAPTER IV

THE CHILDREN'S START IN LIFE

The eleven children of Jonathan Edwards had an unenviable start in life so far as their environment
was concerned. The oldest was still in her teens when serious trouble arose in the parish at
Northampton. Mr. Edwards was pastor at Northampton for twenty-five years, and a more fruitful
pastorate or a more glorious ministerial career for a quarter of a century no man could ask.
He made that church on the frontier the largest Protestant church in the world, and it was
the most influential as well as the best known. There began the greatest religious awakening
of modern times. In his church, resulting from his preaching, began a revival which stirred
into activity every church in Massachusetts, every church in the colonies, and most of the
Protestant churches of Great Britain and Europe.

After this long and eminently successful pastorate, Mr. Edwards preached a sermon about the
reading and conversation of young people upon subjects of questionable propriety, which led
to such local excitement that upon the recommendation of an ecclesiastical council he was dismissed
by a vote of 200 to 20, and the town voted that he be not permitted on any occasion to preach
or lecture in the church. Mr. Edwards was wholly unprepared financially for this unusual ecclesiastical
and civic action. He had no other means of earning a living, so that, until donations began
to come in from far and near, Mrs. Edwards, at the age of forty, the mother of eleven children
with the youngest less than a year old, was obliged to take in work for the support of the
family. After a little time Mr. Edwards secured a small mission charge in an Indian village
where there were twelve white and 150 Indian families. Here he remained eight years in quiet
until, a few weeks before his death, he was called to the presidency and pastorate of Princeton,
then a young and small college.

