What had delayed me in progress was lack of using the right Procedure and the right Prayer.
I sought for God with persistence and great longing; but I sought Him as the Father, and the
Godhead is inaccessible to the creature. On becoming truly desirous of finding God it is necessary
that with great persistence we pray the Father in the name of Jesus Christ that He will give
us to Jesus Christ and nil the heart and mind with love for Christ. Only through Jesus Christ
can we find the Godhead, and we cannot be satisfied with less than the Godhead. With the creature
we cannot come into contact with the Godhead--but with the soul only. The soul is awakened,
revived, reglorified by Grace of Jesus Christ; and the Holy Spirit effects the repentance and
conversion of the heart and mind, for without this conversion towards a spiritual life the
soul remains in bondage to the unconverted creature.

VIII

One day I returned from a walk, and hardly had I entered my room when I commenced thinking
with great nearness and intimacy of Jesus; and suddenly, with the most intense vividness, He
presented Himself before my consciousness so that I inwardly perceived Him, and at once I was
overcome by a great agony of remorse for my unworthiness: it was as though my heart and mind
broke in pieces and melted in the stress of this fearful pain, which continued--increased--became
unendurable, and lasted altogether an hour. Too ignorant to know that this was the pain of
Repentance, I did not understand what had happened to me; but now indeed at least I knew beyond
a doubt that I had a soul! My wonderful Lord had come to pay me a visit, and I was not fit
to receive Him--hence my agony. I would try with all my strength to improve myself for Him.

I was at first at a standstill to know even where to commence in this improvement, for words
fail to describe what I now saw in myself! Up till now I had publicly confessed myself a sinner,
and privately calmly thought of myself as a sinner, but without being disturbed by it or perceiving
how I was one! I kept the commandments in the usual degree and way, and was conscientious in
my dealings with others. Now all at once--by this Presentment of Himself before my soul--which
had lasted for no more than one moment of time--I suddenly, and with terrible clearness, saw
the whole insufferable offensiveness of myself.

For some time, even for some weeks, I remained like a person half-stunned with astonishment.
Then I determined to try to become less selfish, less irritable and impatient, to show far
more consideration for everyone else, to be rigidly truthful: in fact, try to commence an alteration.

For one thing--about telling lies--I had always been quite truthful in large things, but often
told some social lies for my own convenience, and sometimes told them for no reason at all!
This spontaneous Evil filled me with more astonishment than shame; whence did this Evil come?
I could never account for this strange Intruder which seemed to have a separate life and will
of its own, and which, with no conscious invitation upon my part, would suddenly visit me!
and in all manner of shapes and ways! But whatever my difficulties, I had always this immense
incentive--to please my Jesus, tender and wonderful, my Perfect Friend.

Two years went by, and on Easter morning, at the close of the service as I knelt in prayer
in the church, He suddenly presented Himself again before my soul, and again I saw myself,
and again I went down and down into those terrible abysses of spiritual pain; and I suffered
more than I suffered the first time: indeed, I have never had the courage to quite fully recall
the full depths of this anguish to mind.

After this my soul knew Jesus as Christ the Son of God, and my heart and mind accepted this
without any further wonder or question, and entirely without knowing how this knowledge had
been given, for it came as a gift.

A great repose now commenced to fill me, and the world and all its interests and ways seemed
softly and gently blown out of my heart by the wings of a great new love, my love for the Risen
Christ.

Though outwardly my friends might see no change, yet inwardly I was secretly changing month
by month. Even the great love I had for my husband began to fade: this caused me distress;
I thought I was growing heartless, and yet it was rather that my heart had grown so large that
no man could fill it! I felt within me an immense, incomprehensible capacity for love, and
the whole world with all its contents seemed totally, even absurdly, inadequate to satisfy
this great capacity. I suffered over it without understanding it.

IX

I had a garden full of old-fashioned flowers, surrounded by high walls with thatch. As I grew
in my heart more and more away from the world, I worked more in the garden, and whilst I worked
I thought mostly about God--God so far away and hidden, and yet so near my heart.

There were many different song-birds in the garden, and one robin. I loved the robin best of
all. His song was not so beautiful as the blackbird's or so mellow as the thrush's; but they
hid and ran away from me, whilst the robin sought me out and stayed with me and sang me, all
to myself, a little, tiny, gentle song of which I never grew tired. If I stayed quite still,
he came so close he almost touched me; but if I moved towards him, he flew away in a great fright.

It seemed to me I was like that robin, and I wanted to come close, close to the feet of God.
But He would not let me find Him. He would not make me any sign. He would not let me feel I
knew Him. Did He in His wisdom know that if He showed Himself too openly I should go mad with
fear or joy? I could not tell. But every day as the robin sang to me in the garden I sang to
God a little gentle song out of my heart--a song to the hidden God Who called me, and when
I answered Him would not be found, and, still remaining hidden, called and called till I was
dumb with the pain and wonder of this mystery.

Then suddenly came the Great War. My husband was amongst the first to have to go. All my love
for him which I had thought to be fading now rose up again to its full strength: it was no
mere weakly sentiment, but a powerful type of human love which had been able to carry me through
fifteen years of married life without one hour of quarrelling; its roots were deep into my
heart and mind: the very strength and perfection of it but made of it a greater instrument
for torture. Why should this most beautiful of all human emotions carry with it so heavy a
penalty, for which no remedy appeared to exist? It had not then been made clear to me that
all human loves must first be offered up and ascend into the love of God: then only are they
freed from this Pain-Tax. God must first be All in All to us before we can enter amongst the
number who are all in all to Him--constantly consoled by Him. This condition of being all in
all is demanded as a right by all men and women in mutual love, yet we deny this right to God:
we are not even willing to attempt it! this failure to be willing is the grave error we make.
Our attitude to God is not one of love, but of an expectancy of favours. An identical sacrifice
is demanded of us in marriage--father, mother, brothers, sisters, friends: all these loves
must become subservient to the new love, and with what willingness and smiles this sacrifice
is usually made! Not so with our sacrifices to God--we make them with bitter tears, hard hearts,
long faces. Is He never hurt by this perpetual grudgingness of love?

But I had not yet learnt any of this, and I could not accept, I could not swallow this terrible
cup. I thought of Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane. He understood and knew all pain; I had
His companionship, but He offered me no cessation of this pain. It must be borne; had He not
borne His own up to the bitter end? I shrank, appalled, from the suffering I was already in
and the suffering that lay before me. Relief from this agony, relief, relief! But there was
no relief. In utter darkness all must be gone through. At least I was not so foolish as to
attribute all this horror that was closing in upon the world to the direct Will of God: I could
perceive that, on the contrary, it was the spirit of Anti-Christ, it was the will of Man with
his greeds, his cruelty, his self-sufficient pride, together with a host of other evils, which
had brought all this to pass. But could not--would not--God deliver the innocent; must all
alike descend into the pit?

I tried to obtain relief by casting this burden on to Christ, and was not able to accomplish
it. I tried to draw the succour of God down into my heart, and I tried to throw myself out
and up to Him--I could do neither: the vast barrier remained; Faith could not take me through it.

A horrible kind of second sight now possessed me, so that, although I never heard one word
from my husband, I became aware of much that was happening to him--knew him pressed perpetually
backwards, fighting for his life, knew him at times lying exhausted out in the open fields
at night. At last I began to fear for my reason; I became afraid of the torture of the nights
and sat up reading, forcing my mind to concentrate itself upon the book--the near-to-hand help
of the book was more effective than the spiritual help in which something altogether vital
was still missing. Relief only came when after a month a letter reached me from my husband,
saying that the terrible retreat was over and he safe.

Months and years dragged by. Sometimes the pain of it all was eased; sometimes it increased.

As grass mown down and withered in the fields gives out the pleasant scent of hay, so in her
laceration and her anguish did the soul, I wondered, give off some Pain-Song pleasing to Almighty
God.

At first I recoiled with terror from this thought; finally love overcame the terror--I was
willing to have it so, if it pleased Him. My soul reached down into great and fearful depths.
I envied the soldiers dying upon the battlefields; life was become far more terrible to me
than death. Looking back upon my struggles, I see with profound astonishment how unaware I
was of my impudence to God in attributing to Him qualities of cruelty and callousness, such
as are to be found only amongst the lowest men!

Yet good was permitted to come out of this evil; for where I attributed to God a callousness
and even an enjoyment of my sufferings, I learnt self-sacrifice, the effacement of all personal
gain, and total submission for love's sake to His Will, cruel though I might imagine it to
be. With what tears does the heart afterwards address itself in awed repentance to its Beloved
and Gentle God!

A painful illness came and lasted for months. Having no home, I was obliged to endure the misery
of it as best I could among strangers. At this time I touched perhaps the very lowest depths.
How often I longed that I might never wake in the morning! I loathed my life.

During this illness I came exceedingly near to Christ, so much so that I am not able to describe
the vividness of it. What I learnt out of this time of suffering I do not know--save complete
submission. I became like wax--wax which was asked to take only one impression, and that pain.
I was too dumb; I should have remembered those words, that "men ought not to faint, but to pray."

Bewildered, and mystified by my own unhappiness and that of so many others all around me, I
sank in my submission too much into a state of lethargic resignation, whereas an onward-driving
resolution to win through, a powerful determination to seek and obtain the immediate protection
and assistance of God, a standing before God, and a claiming of His help--these things are
required of the soul: in fact that importunity is necessary of which Jesus spoke (Luke xi.

Such times of distress are storms, fearful battles of the soul in which she must not faint
but rise up and walk towards God and clamour for help; and she will receive it. In His own
good time He will give her all that she asks and more even than she dreamed of. She must claim
from God a continual restrengthening, and search with glowing aspiration for a more joyous love.

X

It was summer-time: a great battle was raging in France. A friend wrote me that my husband
was up in the very foremost part of it. I heard no word from my husband; weeks passed, and
still the same ominous silence. At last the day came when the shadow of these two fearful years
rose up and overwhelmed me altogether. I went up on to the wild lonely hill where I so often
walked, and there I contended with God for His help. For the first time in my life there was
nothing between God and myself--this had continually happened with Jesus Christ, but not with
God the Father, Who remained totally inaccessible to me. Now, like a man standing in a very
dark place and seeing nothing but knowing himself immediately near to another--so I knew myself
in very great nearness to God. I had no need for eyes to see outwardly, because of the immense
magnetism of this inward Awareness. At one moment my heart and mind ran like water before Him--praying
Him, beseeching Him for His help; at another my soul stood straight up before Him, contending
and claiming because she could bear no more: and it felt as though the Spirit of God stood
over against my spirit, and my spirit wrestled with God's Spirit for more than an hour. But
He gave me no answer, no sign, no help. He gave me nothing but that awful silence which seems
to hang for ever between God and Man. And I became exhausted, and turned away in despair from
God, and from supplication, and from striving, and from contending, and, very quiet and profoundly
sad, I stood looking out across the hills to the distant view--how gentle and lovely this peace
of the evening sky, whilst on earth all the nations of the world were fighting together in
blood and fury and pain!

I had stood there for perhaps ten minutes, mutely and sadly wondering at the meaning of it
all, and was commencing to walk away when suddenly I was surrounded by a great whiteness which
blotted out from me all my surroundings. It was like a great light or white cloud which hid
all my surroundings from me, though I stood there with my eyes wide open: and the cloud pricked,
so that I said to myself, "It is an electric cloud," and it pricked me from my head down to
my elbows, but no further. I felt no fear whatever, but a very great wonder, and stood there
all quite simple and placid, feeling very quiet. Then there began to be poured into me an indescribably
great vitality, so that I said to myself, "I am being filled with some marvellous Elixir."
And it filled me from the feet up, gently and slowly, so that I could notice every advance
of it. As it rose higher in me, so I grew to feel freed: that is to say, I had within me the
astounding sensation of having the capacity to pass where or how I would--which is to say I
felt freed of the law of gravity. I was like a free spirit--I felt and knew within myself this
glorious freedom! I tasted for some moments a new form of living! Words are unable to convey
the splendour of it, the boundless joy, the liberty, the glory of it.

And the incomprehensible Power rose and rose in me until it reached the very crown of my head,
and immediately it had quite filled me a marvellous thing happened--the Wall, the dreadful
Barrier between God and me, came down entirely, and immediately I loved Him. I was so filled
with love that I had to cry aloud my love, so great was the force and the wonder and the delight
and the might of it.

And now, slowly, the vivid whiteness melted away so that I saw everything around me once more
just as before; but for a little while I continued to stand there very still and thoughtful,
because I was filled with wonder and great peace.

Then I turned to walk home, but I walked as a New Creature in a New World--my heart felt like
the heart of an angel, glowing white-hot with the love for God, and all my sorrows fled away
in a vast joy! This was His answer, this was His help. After years and years of wrestling and
struggling, in one moment of time He had let me find Him, He had poured His Paradise into my
soul! Never was such inconceivable joy--never was such gladness! My griefs and pains and woes
were wiped away--totally effaced as though they had never existed!

Oh, the magnificence of such splendid joy! The whole of space could scarcely now be large enough
to hold me! I needed all of it--I welcomed its immensity as once I was oppressed by it. God
and my Soul, and Love, and Light, and Space!

PART II

At last my little suffering life is sheltered in the known, the felt, protection of the Ineffable
and Invisible Being. The Being Who, without revealing Himself to me by sight or sound, yet
communicates Himself to me in some divine manner at once all-sufficing and inexpressible. I
ask no questions: I am in no haste of anxious learning. My heart and my mind and my soul stand
still and drink in the glory of this happiness. All day, often half the night, I worship Him.
I love Him with this new love, so different from anything known before. The greatest earthly
love, by comparison to it, has become feeble, impure, almost grotesque in its inefficiency--a
tinsel counterfeit of this glistening mystery which must still be spoken of as love because
I know no other name.

I find it difficult, almost impossible, to speak to my fellow-creatures, because I have only
two words, two thoughts in my entire being: my God, and my love for Him.

I am like a thing that is magnetised, held: I am not able, day or night, to detach my mind
from God.

I wake with His name upon my lips, with His glory in my soul. In all this there is no virtue
on my part; there is no effort; the capacity for this boundless devotion is a free gift. Coming
immediately after my anguished prayer on the hill, it appears to me to have come solely on
account of that one prayer--the previous prayers, struggles, endeavours of five-and-twenty
years are entirely forgotten. I comprehend nothing of the mystery, neither as yet do I feel
any desire to comprehend it; but in a world where only love, beauty, happiness, and repose
exist, I walk and talk and live alone with God.

Yet the war was continuing as usual, my husband was in the same danger, I became ill with influenza,
my friends continued to die of wounds, my relations to be killed one by one; but in all this
there was no pain: the sting, the anguish, had gone out of every single thing in life.

My consciousness feels to be composed of two extremes: I am a child of a few years of age,
to whom sin, suffering, pain, evil, and temptation are not known, and yet, though knowing so
little, I know the unutterably great--I know God. This cannot be expressed--merely, it can
be said that two extremes have met.

This new consciousness, this new worship, this new love is for the Godhead. Christ is gone
up into the Godhead, and I worship Him in, and as One with, the Godhead. For three months this
continues uninterruptedly. Then Jesus Christ presents Himself to my consciousness. Jesus, Who
led me to this happiness, now calls and calls to my soul. Immediately I commence to respond
to Him. He is drawing me away; He is teaching me something--at first I do not know what, but
soon I know that He is leading me out of this Eden, this paradise of my childhood: I know it,
because I begin to feel pain again, and to recognise evil. O my Jesus, my Jesus, must I really
follow Thee out of Paradise back into pain? Yes, in less than two weeks I am fully back in
the world again--but not the same world, because I know how to escape from it. The Door that
I knocked at, and that all in one moment was opened to me, is never closed. I can go in and
out. God never closes to me the right of way; never severs those secret wires of Divine Communication.

But my soul is not nursed, as it were, in His Hands day and night--she must learn to grow up.
Woeful education, deadly days of learning, stony paths that hurt, that hurt all the more because
of the felicity that only so recently was mine.

For three months I am walking further and further out of Eden and back into the horrors of
the world--following Jesus.

One night I compose myself as usual for sleep, but I do not sleep, neither can I say that I
am quite awake. It is neither sleep, nor is my wakefulness the usual wakefulness. I do not
dream, I cannot move. My consciousness is alight with a new fiery energy of life; it feels
to extend to an infinite distance beyond my body, and yet remains connected with my body. I
live in a manner totally new and totally incomprehensible, a life in which none of my senses
are used and which is yet a thousand, and more than a thousand, times as vivid. It is living
at white heat--without forms, without sound, without sight, without anything which I have ever
been aware of in this world, and at a terrible speed. What is the meaning of all this? I do
not know: my body is quite helpless and is distressed, but I am not afraid. God is teaching
me something in His own way. For six weeks every night I enter this condition, and the duration
and power or intensity of it increase by degrees. It feels that my soul is projected or travels
for incalculable distances beyond my body--(long afterwards I understand through experience
that this is not the mode of it, but that the soul remaining in the body is by some de-insulation
exposed to the knowledge of spirit-life as and when free of the flesh)--and I learn to comprehend
and to know a new manner of living, as a swimmer learns a new mode of progression by means
of his swimming, which is not his natural way.

By the end of three weeks I can remain nightly for many hours in this condition, which is always
accompanied by an intense and vivid consciousness of God.

As this consciousness of God becomes more and more vivid so my body suffers more and more.
By day I can only eat the smallest morsels of food, which almost choke me, but I drink a great
quantity of water. I am perfectly healthy, though I have hardly any sleep and very little,
indeed almost no, food--the suffering is only at night with the breathing and the heart when
in this strange condition. But I have no anxiety whatever; I am glad that He shall do as He
pleases with me. Nothing but love can give us this supreme confidence.

During the whole of these experiences I live in a state of very considerable abstraction. But
this now suddenly increases, increases to such an extent that I hardly know whether to call
it abstraction or the extremity of poverty. I now become divested of all interests outside
and inside, divested of the greater part of my intelligence, divested of my will. I am of no
value whatever, less than the dust on the road.

In this awful nothingness I am still I. My consciousness continues and is not confounded with
or lost in any other consciousness, but is reduced to stark nakedness and worth nothing: and
this worthless nothing is hung up and, as it were, suspended nowhere in particular as far from
earth as from heaven, totally unknown and unwanted by both God and Man. I am naked patience--waiting.
I have a few thoughts, but very few: I think one thought where in normal times I should think
ten thousand. I feel and know that I am nothing, and I feel that this has been done to me;
just as before, all that I had was also done to me and was a gift. So I acknowledge that I
once had and was perhaps something and that now I possess and certainly am nothing--I acknowledge
it, I accept it, without hesitation, without protest. One of my few thoughts is that I shall
remain for the rest of my natural life in this pitiful state where, however, I shall hope to
be preserved from further sinning simply because I have not a sufficiency of will, intelligence,
or thought with which to sin! I am too completely nothing to be able to sin. I have another
thought, which is that as I no longer have any intelligence with which to deal with the ordinary
difficulties of life, such as street life and traffic, I shall shortly be run over and killed;
and so I put a card with my address on it into my little handbag, for the convenience of those
who shall be obliged to deal with my body afterwards.

I have just sufficient capacity left me to automatically, mechanically, go through with the
necessities of life. I have not become idiotic. I live in a tremendous and profound solitude,
such a solitude as would frighten many people greatly. But my beautiful pastime had accustomed
me to solitude and also to something of this nothingness--a brief nothingness was a necessary
part of the beautiful pastime: so I have no fears now of any kind; but I wonder. Perhaps I
am just four things--wonder, patience, resignation, and nothing.

Yet through this dreadful solitude penetrates the inspiration of some unseen guide. As regards
this particular time I am convinced that this guide is an outside presence. I depend in all
my goings and comings upon the guidance of this guide who proves incredibly accurate in every
detail, in details of even the smallest necessities. If this guide is a part of myself, it
is that of me with which I have not previously come in contact; and it is not the Reason, but
far beyond the Reason, for it divines. It is then either a spiritual guide, companion, or guardian
angel, or it is a power possessed by the soul herself--a foretasting cognisance, a mysterious
intuition of which we as yet comprehend little or nothing, and which we have not yet learnt
to command: it presents itself; it absents itself; but it condescends to every need; it is
always helpful, always beneficent; it sees that which it sees before the event; it hears that
which it hears before the words are spoken. It guides by what would seem to be two very different
modes: the greater things come by a mode altogether indescribable; but for the small things
of every day I will take simple examples here and there. I am abroad. Someone in the family
at home is taken dangerously ill. I am urgently needed; but the trains are overcrowded, I am
unable to get my seat transferred to an earlier date, I cannot let them know at home when I
shall return: all is uncertain, all is chaos. I am painfully anxious, I am ashamed to say I
am greatly worried: I turn as always to my Lord, asking Him to forgive these selfish fears
and to help me. A little while later a scene presents itself to me--I see my own room, I hear
the voice of a page-boy standing in the door and saying, "You are wanted on the telephone";
then I am at the telephone, and a voice is saying to me, "Your train accommodation is transferred
to Friday the 19th." That is all, because I am rung off.

Five days pass.

