I trust I shall not be held to a minute description of our dear Lizzie's person and costume.
Who is so great a recluse as never to have beheld young ladyhood in full dress? Many of us
have sisters and daughters. Not a few of us, I hope, have female connections of another degree,
yet no less dear. Others have looking-glasses. I give you my word for it that Elizabeth made
as pretty a show as it is possible to see. She was of course well-dressed. Her skirt was of
voluminous white, puffed and trimmed in wondrous sort. Her hair was profusely ornamented with
curls and braids of its own rich substance. From her waist depended a ribbon, broad and blue.
White with coral ornaments, as she wrote to Jack in the course of the week. Coral ornaments,
forsooth! And pray, Miss, what of the other jewels with which your person was decorated,--the
rubies, pearls, and sapphires? One by one Lizzie assumes her modest gimcracks: her bracelet,
her gloves, her handkerchief, her fan, and then--her smile. Ah, that strange crowning smile!

An hour later, in Mrs. Littlefield's pretty drawing-room, amid music, lights, and talk, Miss
Crowe was sweeping a grand curtsy before a tall, sallow man, whose name she caught from her
hostess's redundant murmur as Bruce. Five minutes later, when the honest matron gave a glance
at her newly started enterprise from the other side of the room, she said to herself that really,
for a plain country-girl, Miss Crowe did this kind of thing very well. Her next glimpse of
the couple showed them whirling round the room to the crashing thrum of the piano. At eleven
o'clock she beheld them linked by their finger-tips in the dazzling mazes of the reel. At half-past
eleven she discerned them charging shoulder to shoulder in the serried columns of the Lancers.
At midnight she tapped her young friend gently with her fan.

"Your sash is unpinned, my dear.--I think you have danced often enough with Mr. Bruce. If he
asks you again, you had better refuse. It's not quite the thing.--Yes, my dear, I know.--Mr.
Simpson, will you be so good as to take Miss Crowe down to supper?"

I'm afraid young Simpson had rather a snappish partner.

After the proper interval, Mr. Bruce called to pay his respects to Mrs. Littlefield. He found
Miss Crowe also in the drawing-room. Lizzie and he met like old friends. Mrs. Littlefield was
a willing listener; but it seemed to her that she had come in at the second act of the play.
Bruce went off with Miss Crowe's promise to drive with him in the afternoon. In the afternoon
he swept up to the door in a prancing, tinkling sleigh. After some minutes of hoarse jesting
and silvery laughter in the keen wintry air, he swept away again with Lizzie curled up in the
buffalo-robe beside him, like a kitten in a rug. It was dark when they returned. When Lizzie
came in to the sitting-room fire, she was congratulated by her hostess upon having made a "conquest."

"I think he's a most gentlemanly man," says Lizzie.

"So he is, my dear," said Mrs. Littlefield; "Mr. Bruce is a perfect gentleman. He's one of
the finest young men I know. He's not so young either. He's a little too yellow for my taste;
but he's beautifully educated. I wish you could hear his French accent. He has been abroad
I don't know how many years. The firm of Bruce and Robertson does an immense business."

"And I'm so glad," cries Lizzie, "he's coming to Glenham in March! He's going to take his sister
to the water-cure."

"Really?--poor thing! She has very good manners."

"What do you think of his looks?" asked Lizzie, smoothing her feather.

"I was speaking of Jane Bruce. I think Mr. Bruce has fine eyes."

"I must say I like tall men," says Miss Crowe.

"Then Robert Bruce is your man," laughs Mr. Littlefield. "He's as tall as a bell-tower. And
he's got a bell-clapper in his head, too."

"I believe I will go and take off my things," remarks Miss Crowe, flinging up her curls.

Of course it behooved Mr. Bruce to call the next day and see how Miss Crowe had stood her drive.
He set a veto upon her intended departure, and presented an invitation from his sister for
the following week. At Mrs. Littlefield's instance, Lizzie accepted the invitation, despatched
a laconic note to Mrs. Ford, and stayed over for Miss Bruce's party. It was a grand affair.
Miss Bruce was a very great lady: she treated Miss Crowe with every attention. Lizzie was thought
by some persons to look prettier than ever. The vaporous gauze, the sunny hair, the coral,
the sapphires, the smile, were displayed with renewed success. The master of the house was
unable to dance; he was summoned to sterner duties. Nor could Miss Crowe be induced to perform,
having hurt her foot on the ice. This was of course a disappointment; let us hope that her
entertainers made it up to her.

On the second day after the party, Lizzie returned to Glenham. Good Mr. Littlefield took her
to the station, stealing a moment from his precious business-hours.

"There are your checks," said he; "be sure you don't lose them. Put them in your glove."

Lizzie gave a little scream of merriment.

"Mr. Littlefield, how can you? I've a reticule, Sir. But I really don't want you to stay."

"Well, I confess," said her companion.--"Hullo! there's your Scottish chief! I'll get him to
stay with you till the train leaves. He may be going. Bruce!"

"Oh, Mr. Littlefield, don't!" cries Lizzie. "Perhaps Mr. Bruce is engaged."

Bruce's tall figure came striding towards them. He was astounded to find that Miss Crowe was
going by this train. Delightful! He had come to meet a friend who had not arrived.

"Littlefield," said he, "you can't be spared from your business. I will see Miss Crowe off."

When the elder gentleman had departed, Mr. Bruce conducted his companion into the car, and
found her a comfortable seat, equidistant from the torrid stove and the frigid door. Then he
stowed away her shawls, umbrella, and reticule. She would keep her muff? She did well. What
a pretty fur!

"It's just like your collar," said Lizzie. "I wish I had a muff for my feet," she pursued,
tapping on the floor.

"Why not use some of those shawls?" said Bruce; "let's see what we can make of them."

And he stooped down and arranged them as a rug, very neatly and kindly. And then he called
himself a fool for not having used the next seat, which was empty; and the wrapping was done
over again.

"I'm so afraid you'll be carried off!" said Lizzie. "What would you do?"

"I think I should make the best of it. And you?"

"I would tell you to sit down there"; and she indicated the seat facing her. He took it. "Now
you'll be sure to," said Elizabeth.

"I'm afraid I shall, unless I put the newspaper between us." And he took it out of his pocket.
"Have you seen the news?"

"No," says Lizzie, elongating her bonnet-ribbons. "What is it? Just look at that party."

"There's not much news. There's been a scrimmage on the Rappahannock. Two of our regiments
engaged,--the Fifteenth and the Twenty-Eighth. Didn't you tell me you had a cousin or something
in the Fifteenth?"

"Not a cousin, no relation, but an intimate friend,--my guardian's son. What does the paper
say, please?" inquires Lizzie, very pale.

Bruce cast his eye over the report. "It doesn't seem to have amounted to much; we drove back
the enemy, and recrossed the river at our ease. Our loss only fifty. There are no names," he
added, catching a glimpse of Lizzie's pallor,--"none in this paper at least."

In a few moments appeared a newsboy crying the New York journals.

"Do you think the New York papers would have any names?" asked Lizzie.

"We can try," said Bruce. And he bought a "Herald," and unfolded it. "Yes, there is a list,"
he continued, some time after he had opened out the sheet. "What's your friend's name?" he
asked, from behind the paper.

"Ford,--John Ford, second lieutenant," said Lizzie.

There was a long pause.

At last Bruce lowered the sheet, and showed a face in which Lizzie's pallor seemed faintly
reflected.

"There is such a name among the wounded," he said; and, folding the paper down, he held it
out, and gently crossed to the seat beside her.

Lizzie took the paper, and held it close to her eyes. But Bruce could not help seeing that
her temples had turned from white to crimson.

"Do you see it?" he asked; "I sincerely hope it's nothing very bad."

"Severely," whispered Lizzie.

"Yes, but that proves nothing. Those things are most unreliable. Do hope for the best."

Lizzie made no answer. Meanwhile passengers had been brushing in, and the car was full. The
engine began to puff, and the conductor to shout. The train gave a jog.

"You'd better go, Sir, or you'll be carried off," said Lizzie, holding out her hand, with her
face still hidden.

"May I go on to the next station with you?" said Bruce.

Lizzie gave him a rapid look, with a deepened flush. He had fancied that she was shedding tears.
But those eyes were dry; they held fire rather than water.

"No, no, Sir; you must not. I insist. Good bye."

Bruce's offer had cost him a blush, too. He had been prepared to back it with the assurance
that he had business ahead, and, indeed, to make a little business in order to satisfy his
conscience. But Lizzie's answer was final.

"Very well," said he, "good bye. You have my real sympathy, Miss Crowe. Don't despair. We shall
meet again."

The train rattled away. Lizzie caught a glimpse of a tall figure with lifted hat on the platform.
But she sat motionless, with her head against the window-frame, her veil down, and her hands idle.

She had enough to do to think, or rather to feel. It is fortunate that the utmost shock of
evil tidings often comes first. After that everything is for the better. Jack's name stood
printed in that fatal column like a stern signal for despair. Lizzie felt conscious of a crisis
which almost arrested her breath. Night had fallen at midday: what was the hour? A tragedy
had stepped into her life: was she spectator or actor? She found herself face to face with
death: was it not her own soul masquerading in a shroud? She sat in a half-stupor. She had
been aroused from a dream into a waking nightmare. It was like hearing a murder-shriek while
you turn the page of your novel. But I cannot describe these things. In time the crushing sense
of calamity loosened its grasp. Feeling lashed her pinions. Thought struggled to rise. Passion
was still, stunned, floored. She had recoiled like a receding wave for a stronger onset. A
hundred ghastly fears and fancies strutted a moment, pecking at the young girl's naked heart,
like sandpipers on the weltering beach. Then, as with a great murmurous rush, came the meaning
of her grief. The flood-gates of emotion were opened.

At last passion exhausted itself, and Lizzie thought. Bruce's parting words rang in her ears.
She did her best to hope. She reflected that wounds, even severe wounds, did not necessarily
mean death. Death might easily be warded off. She would go to Jack; she would nurse him; she
would watch by him; she would cure him. Even if Death had already beckoned, she would strike
down his hand: if Life had already obeyed, she would issue the stronger mandate of Love. She
would stanch his wounds; she would unseal his eyes with her kisses; she would call till he
answered her.

Lizzie reached home and walked up the garden path. Mrs. Ford stood in the parlor as she entered,
upright, pale, and rigid. Each read the other's countenance. Lizzie went towards her slowly
and giddily. She must of course kiss her patroness. She took her listless hand and bent towards
her stern lips. Habitually Mrs. Ford was the most undemonstrative of women. But as Lizzie looked
closer into her face, she read the signs of a grief infinitely more potent than her own. The
formal kiss gave way: the young girl leaned her head on the old woman's shoulder and burst
into sobs. Mrs. Ford acknowledged those tears with a slow inclination of the head, full of
a certain grim pathos: she put out her arms and pressed them closer to her heart.

At last Lizzie disengaged herself and sat down.

"I am going to him," said Mrs. Ford.

Lizzie's dizziness returned. Mrs. Ford was going,--and she, she?

"I am going to nurse him, and with God's help to save him."

"How did you hear?"

"I have a telegram from the surgeon of the regiment"; and Mrs. Ford held out a paper.

Lizzie took it and read: "Lieutenant Ford dangerously wounded in the action of yesterday. You
had better come on."

"I should like to go myself," said Lizzie: "I think Jack would like to have me."

"Nonsense! A pretty place for a young girl! I am not going for sentiment; I am going for use."

Lizzie leaned her head back in her chair, and closed her eyes. From the moment they had fallen
upon Mrs. Ford, she had felt a certain quiescence. And now it was a relief to have responsibility
denied her. Like most weak persons, she was glad to step out of the current of life, now that
it had begun to quicken into action. In emergencies, such persons are tacitly counted out;
and they as tacitly consent to the arrangement. Even to the sensitive spirit there is a certain
meditative rapture in standing on the quiet shore, (beside the ruminating cattle,) and watching
the hurrying, eddying flood, which makes up for the loss of dignity. Lizzie's heart resumed
its peaceful throbs. She sat, almost dreamily, with her eyes shut.

"I leave in an hour," said Mrs. Ford. "I am going to get ready.--Do you hear?"

The young girl's silence was a deeper consent than her companion supposed.

IV.

It was a week before Lizzie heard from Mrs. Ford. The letter, when it came, was very brief.
Jack still lived. The wounds were three in number, and very serious; he was unconscious; he
had not recognized her; but still the chances either way were thought equal. They would be
much greater for his recovery nearer home; but it was impossible to move him. "I write from
the midst of horrible scenes," said the poor lady. Subjoined was a list of necessary medicines,
comforts, and delicacies, to be boxed up and sent.

For a while Lizzie found occupation in writing a letter to Jack, to be read in his first lucid
moment, as she told Mrs. Ford. This lady's man-of-business came up from the village to superintend
the packing of the boxes. Her directions were strictly followed; and in no point were they
found wanting. Mr. Mackenzie bespoke Lizzie's admiration for their friend's wonderful clearness
of memory and judgment. "I wish we had that woman at the head of affairs," said he. "'Gad,
I'd apply for a Brigadier-Generalship."--"I'd apply to be sent South," thought Lizzie. When
the boxes and letter were despatched, she sat down to await more news. Sat down, say I? Sat
down, and rose, and wondered, and sat down again. These were lonely, weary days. Very different
are the idleness of love and the idleness of grief. Very different is it to be alone with your
hope and alone with your despair. Lizzie failed to rally her musings. I do not mean to say
that her sorrow was very poignant, although she fancied it was. Habit was a great force in
her simple nature; and her chief trouble now was that habit refused to work. Lizzie had to
grapple with the stern tribulation of a decision to make, a problem to solve. She felt that
there was some spiritual barrier between herself and repose. So she began in her usual fashion
to build up a false repose on the hither side of belief. She might as well have tried to float
on the Dead Sea. Peace eluding her, she tried to resign herself to tumult. She drank deep at
the well of self-pity, but found its waters brackish. People are apt to think that they may
temper the penalties of misconduct by self-commiseration, just as they season the long aftertaste
of beneficence by a little spice of self-applause. But the Power of Good is a more grateful
master than the Devil. What bliss to gaze into the smooth gurgling wake of a good deed, while
the comely bark sails on with floating pennon! What horror to look into the muddy sediment
which floats round the piratic keel! Go, sinner, and dissolve it with your tears! And you,
scoffing friend, there is the way out! Or would you prefer the window? I'm an honest man forevermore.

One night Lizzie had a dream, a rather disagreeable one,--which haunted her during many waking
hours. It seemed to her that she was walking in a lonely place, with a tall, dark-eyed man
who called her wife. Suddenly, in the shadow of a tree, they came upon an unburied corpse.
Lizzie proposed to dig him a grave. They dug a great hole and took hold of the corpse to lift
him in; when suddenly he opened his eyes. Then they saw that he was covered with wounds. He
looked at them intently for some time, turning his eyes from one to the other. At last he solemnly
said, "Amen!" and closed his eyes. Then she and her companion placed him in the grave, and
shovelled the earth over him, and stamped it down with their feet.

He of the dark eyes and he of the wounds were the two constantly recurring figures of Lizzie's
reveries. She could never think of John without thinking of the courteous Leatherborough gentleman,
too. These were the data of her problem. These two figures stood like opposing knights, (the
black and the white,) foremost on the great chess-board of fate. Lizzie was the wearied, puzzled
player. She would idly finger the other pieces, and shift them carelessly hither and thither;
but it was of no avail: the game lay between the two knights. She would shut her eyes and long
for some kind hand to come and tamper with the board; she would open them and see the two knights
standing immovable, face to face. It was nothing new. A fancy had come in and offered defiance
to a fact; they must fight it out. Lizzie generously inclined to the fancy, the unknown champion,
with a reputation to make. Call her blasée if you like, this little girl, whose record told
of a couple of dances and a single lover, heartless, old before her time. Perhaps she deserves
your scorn. I confess she thought herself ill-used. By whom? by what? wherein? These were questions
Miss Crowe was not prepared to answer. Her intellect was unequal to the stern logic of human
events. She expected two and two to make five: as why should they not for the nonce? She was
like an actor who finds himself on the stage with a half-learned part and without sufficient
wit to extemporize. Pray, where is the prompter? Alas, Elizabeth, that you had no mother! Young
girls are prone to fancy that when once they have a lover, they have everything they need:
a conclusion inconsistent with the belief entertained by many persons, that life begins with
love. Lizzie's fortunes became old stories to her before she had half read them through. Jack's
wounds and danger were an old story. Do not suppose that she had exhausted the lessons, the
suggestions of these awful events, their inspirations, exhortations,--that she had wept as
became the horror of the tragedy. No: the curtain had not yet fallen, yet our young lady had
begun to yawn. To yawn? Ay, and to long for the afterpiece. Since the tragedy dragged, might
she not divert herself with that well-bred man beside her?

Elizabeth was far from owning to herself that she had fallen away from her love. For my own
part, I need no better proof of the fact than the dull persistency with which she denied it.
What accusing voice broke out of the stillness? Jack's nobleness and magnanimity were the hourly
theme of her clogged fancy. Again and again she declared to herself that she was unworthy of
them, but that, if he would only recover and come home, she would be his eternal bond-slave.
So she passed a very miserable month. Let us hope that her childish spirit was being tempered
to some useful purpose. Let us hope so.

She roamed about the empty house with her footsteps tracked by an unlaid ghost. She cried aloud
and said that she was very unhappy; she groaned and called herself wicked. Then, sometimes,
appalled at her moral perplexities, she declared that she was neither wicked nor unhappy; she
was contented, patient, and wise. Other girls had lost their lovers: it was the present way
of life. Was she weaker than most women? Nay, but Jack was the best of men. If he would only
come back directly, without delay, as he was, senseless, dying even, that she might look at
him, touch him, speak to him! Then she would say that she could no longer answer for herself,
and wonder (or pretend to wonder) whether she were not going mad. Suppose Mrs. Ford should
come back and find her in an unswept room, pallid and insane? or suppose she should die of
her troubles? What if she should kill herself?--dismiss the servants, and close the house,
and lock herself up with a knife? Then she would cut her arm to escape from dismay at what
she had already done; and then her courage would ebb away with her blood, and, having so far
pledged herself to despair, her life would ebb away with her courage; and then, alone, in darkness,
with none to help her, she would vainly scream, and thrust the knife into her temple, and swoon
to death. And Jack would come back, and burst into the house, and wander through the empty
rooms, calling her name, and for all answer get a death-scent! These imaginings were the more
creditable or discreditable to Lizzie, that she had never read "Romeo and Juliet." At any rate,
they served to dissipate time,--heavy, weary time,--the more heavy and weary as it bore dark
foreshadowings of some momentous event. If that event would only come, whatever it was, and
sever this Gordian knot of doubt!

The days passed slowly: the leaden sands dropped one by one. The roads were too bad for walking;
so Lizzie was obliged to confine her restlessness to the narrow bounds of the empty house,
or to an occasional journey to the village, where people sickened her by their dull indifference
to her spiritual agony. Still they could not fail to remark how poorly Miss Crowe was looking.
This was true, and Lizzie knew it. I think she even took a certain comfort in her pallor and
in her failing interest in her dress. There was some satisfaction in displaying her white roses
amid the apple-cheeked prosperity of Main Street. At last Miss Cooper, the Doctor's sister,
spoke to her:--

"How is it, Elizabeth, you look so pale, and thin, and worn out? What you been doing with yourself?
Falling in love, eh? It isn't right to be so much alone. Come down and stay with us awhile,--till
Mrs. Ford and John come back," added Miss Cooper, who wished to put a cheerful face on the matter.

For Miss Cooper, indeed, any other face would have been difficult. Lizzie agreed to come. Her
hostess was a busy, unbeautiful old maid, sister and housekeeper of the village physician.
Her occupation here below was to perform the forgotten tasks of her fellow-men,--to pick up
their dropped stitches, as she herself declared. She was never idle, for her general cleverness
was commensurate with mortal needs. Her own story was, that she kept moving, so that folks
couldn't see how ugly she was. And, in fact, her existence was manifest through her long train
of good deeds,--just as the presence of a comet is shown by its tail. It was doubtless on the
above principle that her visage was agitated by a perpetual laugh.

Meanwhile more news had been coming from Virginia. "What an absurdly long letter you sent John,"
wrote Mrs. Ford, in acknowledging the receipt of the boxes. "His first lucid moment would be
very short, if he were to take upon himself to read your effusions. Pray keep your long stories
till he gets well." For a fortnight the young soldier remained the same,--feverish, conscious
only at intervals. Then came a change for the worse, which, for many weary days, however, resulted
in nothing decisive. "If he could only be moved to Glenham, home, and old sights," said his
mother, "I should have hope. But think of the journey!" By this time Lizzie had stayed out
ten days of her visit.

One day Miss Cooper came in from a walk, radiant with tidings. Her face, as I have observed,
wore a continual smile, being dimpled and punctured all over with merriment,--so that, when
an unusual cheerfulness was super-diffused, it resembled a tempestuous little pool into which
a great stone has been cast.

"Guess who's come," said she, going up to the piano, which Lizzie was carelessly fingering,
and putting her hands on the young girl's shoulders. "Just guess!"

Lizzie looked up.

"Jack," she half gasped.

"Oh, dear, no, not that! How stupid of me! I mean Mr. Bruce, your Leatherborough admirer."

"Mr. Bruce! Mr. Bruce!" said Lizzie. "Really?"

"True as I live. He's come to bring his sister to the Water-Cure. I met them at the post-office."

Lizzie felt a strange sensation of good news. Her finger-tips were on fire. She was deaf to
her companion's rattling chronicle. She broke into the midst of it with a fragment of some
triumphant, jubilant melody. The keys rang beneath her flashing hands. And then she suddenly
stopped, and Miss Cooper, who was taking off her bonnet at the mirror, saw that her face was
covered with a burning flush.

That evening, Mr. Bruce presented himself at Doctor Cooper's, with whom he had a slight acquaintance.
To Lizzie he was infinitely courteous and tender. He assured her, in very pretty terms, of
his profound sympathy with her in her cousin's danger,--her cousin he still called him,--and
it seemed to Lizzie that until that moment no one had begun to be kind. And then he began to
rebuke her, playfully and in excellent taste, for her pale cheeks.

"Isn't it dreadful?" said Miss Cooper. "She looks like a ghost. I guess she's in love."

"He must be a good-for-nothing lover to make his mistress look so sad. If I were you, I'd give
him up, Miss Crowe."

"I didn't know I looked sad," said Lizzie.

"You don't now," said Miss Cooper. "You're smiling and blushing. A'n't she blushing, Mr. Bruce?"

"I think Miss Crowe has no more than her natural color," said Bruce, dropping his eye-glass.
"What have you been doing all this while since we parted?"

"All this while? it's only six weeks. I don't know. Nothing. What have you?"

"I've been doing nothing, too. It's hard work."

"Have you been to any more parties?"

"Not one."

"Any more sleigh-rides?"

"Yes. I took one more dreary drive all alone,--over that same road, you know. And I stopped
at the farm-house again, and saw the old woman we had the talk with. She remembered us, and
asked me what had become of the young lady who was with me before. I told her you were gone
home, but that I hoped soon to go and see you. So she sent you her love"----

"Oh, how nice!" exclaimed Lizzie.

"Wasn't it? And then she made a certain little speech; I won't repeat it, or we shall have
Miss Cooper talking about your blushes again."

"I know," cried the lady in question: "she said she was very"----

"Very what?" said Lizzie.

"Very h-a-n-d----what every one says."

"Very handy?" asked Lizzie. "I'm sure no one ever said that."

"Of course," said Bruce; "and I answered what every one answers."

"Have you seen Mrs. Littlefield lately?"

