 It is too late, however, to save
the life of Colomba, who has been mortally wounded in endeavouring to divert the soldiers from
Orso's hiding-place. Mackenzie's music is exceedingly clever and effective. He uses guiding
themes with judgment and skill, and his employment of some old Corsican melodies is also very
happy. 'Colomba' is a work which eminently merits revival, and it will be probably heard of
again. 'The Troubadour,' which was produced a few years later, failed completely. The story
is thoroughly dull, and completely failed to inspire the musician. Sir Alexander Mackenzie
has recently completed the score of an opera on the subject of Dickens's 'Cricket on the Hearth,'
the production of which is awaited with much interest.

During the closing years of the nineteenth century the fortunes of English opera, never very
brilliant, reached a lower point than at any time in our musical history. The Carl Rosa opera
company fell upon evil days, and was compelled to restrict its energies almost entirely to
the performance of stock operas, while at Covent Garden the opportunities afforded to native
composers were few and far between. In these disheartening circumstances it is not surprising
that English musicians were not encouraged to devote their powers to a form of art in which
so little prospect of success could be entertained. What they might have achieved under happier
conditions the operatic career of Sir Charles Stanford suggests in the most convincing manner.
Stanford is a composer whose natural endowment conspicuously fits him for operatic work, and
he has grasped such opportunities as have been vouchsafed to him with almost unvarying success.
Had he been blessed with a more congenial environment he would have taken rank with the foremost
operatic composers of his time.

His first opera, 'The Veiled Prophet,' was originally performed at Hanover in 1881, but was
not actually heard in London until it was produced at Covent Garden in 1894. The libretto,
an admirable condensation of Moore's well-known poem from the pen of Mr. W. Barclay Squire,
gave the composer ample opportunities for picturesque and dramatic effect. Stanford's music
is tuneful and vigorous throughout, and such weaknesses as are occasionally perceptible are
due rather to inexperience of the stage than to any failure in inspiration.

'The Canterbury Pilgrims,' written to a libretto by Gilbert à Beckett, which was produced in
1884, was happily named by some one at the time an English 'Meistersinger,' and indeed it is
not difficult to imagine what model Stanford had in his mind when writing his brilliant and
genial opera, Geoffrey, the host of the Tabard Inn, has a pretty daughter named Cicely, who
is loved by the jovial apprentice, Hubert. Geoffrey finds out their attachment, and determines
to sent Cicely upon a visit to an aunt in Kent, in company with a body of pilgrims who are
just starting for Canterbury. Sir Christopher Synge, a knight of Kent, has cast sheep's eyes
upon the pretty girl, and hearing of her intended trip bids his factotum, Hal o' the Chepe,
assemble a company of ragamuffins, and carry her off on her way to Canterbury. Hubert contrives
to get enlisted among them, so as to be able to watch over his sweetheart, and Dame Margery,
Sir Christopher's wife, also in disguise, joins the pilgrims, in the hope of keeping an eye
upon her errant spouse. In the second act the pilgrims arrive at Sidenbourne. Dame Margery
helps the lovers to escape, and taking Cicely's place receives the vows and sighs of her husband.
In the third act the lovers have been overtaken and caught by the irate Geoffrey, and Hubert
is dragged to trial before Sir Christopher. After an amusing trial scene, the knight discovers
that Cicely is one of the culprits, and at once pardons them both. Geoffrey is persuaded to
forgive the young couple, and all ends happily, Stanford's music is a happy compromise between
old and new. In his use of guiding themes, and in his contrapuntal treatment of the orchestra
he follows Wagner, but his employment of new devices is tempered by due regard for established
tradition. He is happiest in dealing with humorous situations, and in the lighter parts of
the opera his music has a bustling gaiety which fits the situation very happily. In the more
passionate scenes he is less at home, and the love duet in particular is by no means entirely
satisfactory. Stanford's next work, 'Savonarola,' was performed in London for the first time
by a German company under Dr. Hans Richter in 1884. Interesting as much of the music is, the
performance was not successful, partly owing to the almost unmitigated gloom of the libretto.
Far the best part of the work, both musically and dramatically, is the prologue, which tells
of the love of Savonarola for Clarice, of her marriage, and of his renouncement of the world.
The merit of this scene is so great that it might be worth the composer's while to produce
it as a one-act opera, in which form it would be safe to predict for it a genuine success.

Stanford's next work for the stage was 'Shamus O'Brien,' a romantic opera dealing with a typically
Irish subject, which was produced in 1896 with great success. The form of the work is that
of a genuine comic opera, the dialogue being interspersed throughout with music, but although
less ambitious in form than his earlier works, 'Shamus O'Brien' has a deeper artistic importance.
With all its cleverness and ingenuity, 'The Canterbury Pilgrims' is German in method and expression,
and it is merely by the accident of language that it can be classed as British opera at all.
In 'Shamus O'Brien' the composer drew his inspiration from the melodies and rhythms of his
native Ireland, and the result is that his work ranks as an original and independent effort,
instead of being merely a brilliant exercise.

In 1901 Sir Charles Stanford's 'Much Ado about Nothing' was produced at Covent Garden. The
libretto by Julian Sturgis is a clever adaptation of Shakespeare's comedy, in which the action
is judiciously compressed into four scenes without any incidents of importance being omitted.
First we have the ball at Leonato's house, with some love-making for Claudio and Hero, and
a wit-combat between Beatrice and Benedick. Here, too, Don John hatches his plot against Hero's
honour, and Don Pedro unfolds his scheme for tricking Beatrice and Benedick into mutual love.
The second act takes place in Leonato's garden. Claudio serenades his mistress, who comes down
from her balcony and joins him in a duet. Then follows the cozening of Benedick, and the act
ends effectively by Don John showing to Claudio the supposed Hero admitting Borachio to her
chamber. The third scene is in the church, following Shakespeare very closely, and the last
takes place in an open square in Messina with Hero's tomb on one side, where, after a scene
with Dogberry, Borachio confesses his crime, and Hero is restored to her lover. Stanford's
music is a masterly combination of delicate fancy and brilliant humour, and when serious matters
are in hand he is not found wanting. A distinctive feature of the work is the absence of Wagnerian
influence. Stanford uses guiding themes, it is true, and often in a most suggestive manner,
but they do not form the basis of his score. If foreign influence there be in 'Much Ado about
Nothing,' it is that of Verdi in his 'Falstaff' manner. Like Verdi Stanford strikes a true
balance between voices and instruments. His orchestra prattles merrily along, underlining each
situation in turn with happy emphasis, but it never attempts to dethrone the human voice from
its pride of place. Like the blithe Beatrice, 'Much Ado about Nothing' was born under a star
that danced. It overflows with delicious melody, and its orchestration is the ne plus ultra
of finished musicianship. Since its production in London it has been performed with great success
in the provinces by the Moody-Manners opera company, and has lately been produced in Germany.

Dr. Frederic Cowen is another of our English musicians who, in more favourable circumstances,
would doubtless have proved himself an operatic composer of distinction. 'Pauline,' a work
founded upon 'The Lady of Lyons,' which was played by the Carl Rosa company in 1876, seems
to have won little success. 'Thorgrim,' produced by the same company in 1889, was more fortunate.
The plot is founded upon an Icelandic saga, and has but little dramatic interest. There is
much charm in Dr. Cowen's music, and some of the lighter scenes in the opera are gracefully
treated, but his talent is essentially delicate rather than powerful, and the fierce passions
of the Vikings scarcely come within its scope.

'Signa' (1893), an opera founded upon Ouida's novel of that name, showed traces of Italian
influence. It was produced at Milan with considerable success, and was afterwards given in
London. In 'Harold' (1895), Dr. Cowen attempted too ambitious a task. The tale of the conquest
of England was ill suited to his delicate muse, and the opera achieved little more than a succès
d'estime.

Sir Arthur Sullivan (1842-1900) was the most successful English composer of opera during the
later years of the nineteenth century. His name is of course principally associated with the
long series of light operas written in conjunction with Mr. W.S. Gilbert; but it must not be
forgotten that he also essayed grand opera with no little success.

The experiment made by the Carl Rosa company in 1899 of playing his early oratorio, 'The Martyr
of Antioch,' as an opera had, not unnaturally, very little success, but 'Ivanhoe' (1891) showed
that Sullivan could adapt his style to the exigencies of grand opera with singular versatility.
'Ivanhoe' was handicapped by a patchy and unequal libretto, but it contained a great deal of
good music, and we have probably not heard the last of it yet. For the present generation,
however, Sullivan's fame rests almost entirely upon his comic operas, which indeed have already
attained something like the position of classics and may prove, it is sincerely to be hoped,
the foundation of that national school of opera which has been so often debated and so ardently
desired, but is still, alas! so far from practical realisation.

Sullivan's first essay in comic opera dates from the year 1867, which saw the production of
his 'Contrabandista' and 'Cox and Box,' both written to libretti by Sir Frank Burnand, and
both showing not merely admirable musicianship and an original vein of melody, but an irresistible
sense of humour and a rare faculty for expressing it in music. 'Thespis' (1871) first brought
him into partnership with Mr. Gilbert, a partnership which was further cemented by 'Trial by
Jury' (1875). It was 'Trial by Jury' that opened the eyes of connoisseurs to the possibilities
lying within the grasp of these two young men, whose combined talents had produced a work so
entirely without precedent in the history of English or indeed of any music. The promise of
'Trial by Jury' was amply borne out by 'The Sorcerer' (1877), which remains in the opinion
of many the best of the whole series of Gilbert and Sullivan operas--but indeed there is hardly
one of them that has not at one time or another been preferred above its fellows by expert
opinion. 'The Sorcerer' naturally gave Sullivan more scope than 'Trial by Jury.' Here for the
first time he showed what he could do in what may be called his old English vein, in reproduction
of the graceful dance measures of old time, and in imitations of Elizabethan madrigals so fresh
and tuneful that they seem less the resuscitation of a style long dead than the creation of
an entirely new art-form. In a different vein was the burlesque incantation, a masterpiece
of musical humour, in which the very essence of Mr. Gilbert's strange topsy-turvydom seems
transmuted into sound.

In 'H.M.S. Pinafore' (1878) Sullivan scored his first great popular success. 'The Sorcerer'
had appealed to the few; 'Pinafore' carried the masses by storm. In humour and in musicianship
alike it is less subtle than its predecessor, but it triumphed by sheer dash and high spirits.
There is a smack of the sea in music and libretto alike. 'Pinafore' was irresistible, and Sullivan
became the most popular composer of the day. 'The Pirates of Penzance' (1880) followed the
lines of 'Pinafore,' with humour perhaps less abundant but with an added touch of refinement.
There are passages in 'The Pirates' tenderer in tone, one might almost say more pathetic, than
anything Sullivan had previously written, passages which gave more than a hint of the triumphs
he was later to win in that mingling of tears and laughter of which he had the secret In 'Patience'
(1881) musician and librettist mutually agreed to leave the realm of farcical extravagance,
and to turn to satire of a peculiarly keen-edged and delicate kind--that satire which caresses
while it cuts, and somehow contrives to win sympathy for its object even when it is most mordant.
There are people nowadays who have been known to declare that the "æsthetic" movement had no
existence outside the imagination of Mr. Gilbert and 'Mr. Punch.' In the eighties, however,
everybody believed in it, and believed too that 'Patience' killed it. What is quite certain
is that, whoever killed it, 'Patience' embalmed it in odours and spices of the most fragrant
and costly description, so that it has remained a thing of beauty even to our own day. In 'Iolanthe'
(1882) Mr. Gilbert reached the dizziest height of topsy-turvydom to which he ever climbed,
and set Sullivan to solve what was perhaps the most difficult problem of his whole career.
To bring the atmosphere of fairyland into the House of Lords was a task which the most accomplished
master of musical satire might well have refused, but Sullivan came victoriously through the
ordeal. His 'Iolanthe' music, with its blending of things aërial with things terrene, and its
contrast between the solid qualities of our hereditary legislators and the irresponsible ecstasy
of fairyland is one of the most surprising feats of musical imagination that even his career
can furnish. In 'Princess Ida' (1884), which is, so to speak, a burlesque of a burlesque, his
task was easier. 'Princess Ida' contains some of his most brilliant excursions into the realm
of parody--parodies of grand opera, parodies of the traditional Handelian manner, parodies
of sentimental love-making--but it also contains some of the purest and most beautiful music
he ever wrote. Some of Sullivan's melodies, indeed, would be more fitting on the lips of Tennyson's
romantic princess than on those of Mr. Gilbert's burlesque "suffragette". 'Princess Ida' was
not appreciated at its true value and still awaits its revenge, but in 'The Mikado' (1885)
the two collaborators scored the greatest success of their career. The freshness and novelty
of its surroundings--Japan had not then, so to speak, become the property of the man in the
street--counted for something in the triumph of 'The Mikado,' but it is unquestionably one
of the very best of the series. Mr. Gilbert never wrote wittier or more brilliant dialogue,
and Sullivan never dazzled his admirers by more astonishing feats of musicianship. 'Ruddigore'
(1887) was less successful than any of its predecessors. If the satire of 'Princess Ida' was
just a shade above the heads of the Savoy audience, the satire of 'Ruddigore' was perhaps a
shade below them. 'Ruddigore' is a burlesque of transpontine melodrama, and a very good burlesque
too; but the Savoy audience knew next to nothing about transpontine melodrama, and so the satire
was missed and the piece fell flat. It was a pity, because Sullivan's music was in his happiest
manner. There may yet, however, be a future for 'Ruddigore,' 'The Yeomen of the Guard' (1888)
opened fresh ground. For the moment Mr. Gilbert turned his back upon topsy-turvydom and Sullivan
approached the frontiers of grand opera.

'The Yeomen of the Guard' has a serious plot, and at times lingers on the threshold of tragedy.
Sullivan caught the altered spirit of his collaborator with perfect sympathy, and struck a
note of romantic feeling unique in his career. With 'The Gondoliers' (1889) the scene brightened
again, and merriment reigned supreme once more. Perhaps at times there was a suspicion of weariness
in Mr. Gilbert's wit, and some of Sullivan's melodies had not all the old distinction of manner,
but the piece was an incarnation of liveliness and gaiety, and its success rivalled the historic
glories of 'The Mikado.' With 'The Gondoliers' came the first solution of continuity in the
Gilbert and Sullivan partnership. Differences arose; Mr. Gilbert retired from the councils
of the Savoy Theatre, and Sullivan had to look out for a new collaborator. He found one in
Mr. Sydney Grundy, and their 'Haddon Hall' was produced in 1892. In spite of charming music,
reflecting very gracefully the old English atmosphere of the story, its success was only moderate,
and the world of music was much relieved to hear that the differences between Mr. Gilbert and
the Savoy authorities had been adjusted, and that the two famous collaborators were to join
forces once more. Unfortunately 'Utopia' (1893) echoed but faintly the magical harmonies of
the past. The old enchantment was gone; the spell was shattered. Both collaborators seemed
to have lost the clue that had so often led to triumph. Again they drifted apart, and Sullivan
turned once more to his old friend, Sir Frank Burnand. Together they produced 'The Chieftain'
(1894), a revised and enlarged version of their early indiscretion, 'The Contrabandista.' Success
still held aloof, and for the last time Sullivan and Mr. Gilbert joined forces. In 'The Grand
Duke' (1896) there were fitful gleams of the old splendour, notably in an amazing sham--Greek
chorus, which no one but Sullivan could have written, but the piece could not for a moment
be compared to even the weakest of the earlier operas. The fate of 'The Beauty Stone' (1898),
written to a libretto by Messrs Pinero and Comyns Carr, was even more deplorable. Fortunately
Sullivan's collaboration with Captain Basil Hood brought him an Indian summer of inspiration
and success. 'The Rose of Persia' (1900), if not upon the level of his early masterpieces,
contained better music than he had written since the days of 'The Gondoliers,' and at least
one number--the marvellous Dervish quartet--that for sheer invention and musicianship could
hardly be matched even in 'The Mikado' itself. There was a great deal of charming music, too,
in 'The Emerald Isle' (1901), which Sullivan left unfinished at his death, and Mr. Edward German
completed.

During his lifetime, Sullivan was called the English Auber by people who wanted to flatter
him, and the English Offenbach by people who wanted to snub him. Neither was a very happy nickname.
He might more justly have been called the English Lortzing, since he undoubtedly learnt more
than a little from the composer of 'Czar und Zimmermann,' whose comic operas he heard during
his student days at Leipzig. But Sullivan owed very little to anyone. His genius was thoroughly
his own and thoroughly English, and in that lies his real value to posterity. For if we are
ever to have a national English opera, we shall get it by writing English music, not by producing
elaborate exercises in the manner of Wagner, Verdi, Massenet, Strauss, or anybody else. Most
great artistic enterprises spring from humble sources, and our young lions need not be ashamed
of producing a mere comic opera or two before attacking a full-fledged music-drama. Did not
Wagner himself recommend a budding bard to start his musical career with a Singspiel? It is
safest as a rule to begin building operations from the foundation, and a better foundation
for a school of English opera than Sullivan's series of comic operas could hardly be desired.

In his younger days Sullivan had many disciples. Alfred Cellier, the composer of the world-famous
'Dorothy,' was the best of them. Edward Solomon was hardly more than a clever imitator. The
mantle of Sullivan seems now to have fallen on Mr. Edward German, who besides completing Sullivan's
unfinished 'Emerald Isle,' won brilliant success with his enchanting 'Merrie England.' His
'Princess of Kensington' was saddled with a dull libretto, but the music was hardly inferior
to that of its predecessor, and much the same may be said of his latest work 'Tom Jones.'

The recent performances of English composers in the field of grand opera have not been very
encouraging. Few indeed are the opportunities offered to our native musicians of winning distinction
on the lyric stage, and of late we have been regaled with the curious spectacle of English
composers setting French or German libretti in the hope of finding in foreign theatres the
hearing that is denied them in their own. Miss Ethel Smyth is the most prominent and successful
of the composers whose reputation has been made abroad. Her 'Fantasio' has not been given in
England, but 'Der Wald,' an opera in one act, after having been produced in Germany was given
at Covent Garden in 1902 with conspicuous success. The libretto, which is the work of the composer
herself, is concise and dramatic. Heinrich the forester loves Röschen, the woodman's daughter,
but on the eve of their marriage he has the misfortune to attract the notice of Iolanthe, the
mistress of his liege lord the Landgrave Rudolf. He rejects her advances, and in revenge she
has him stabbed by her followers. This is the bare outline of the story, but the value of the
work lies in the highly poetical and imaginative framework in which it is set. Behind the puny
passions of man looms the vast presence of the eternal forest, the mighty background against
which the children of earth fret their brief hour and pass into oblivion. The note which echoes
through the drama is struck in the opening scene--a tangled brake deep in the heart of the
great stillness, peopled by nymphs and fauns whose voices float vaguely through the twilight.
Every scene in the drama is tinged with the same mysterious influence, until at the close the
spirit-voices chant their primeval hymn over the bodies of the lovers in the gathering night.
Miss Smyth's music has the same mastering unity. The voice of the forest is the keynote of
her score. Perhaps it can hardly be said that she has altogether succeeded in translating into
music the remarkable conception which is the foundation of her libretto. Had she done so, she
might at once have taken her place by the side of Wagner, the only composer of modern times
who has handled a philosophical idea of this kind in music with any notable success. But her
music has an individual strain of romance, which stamps her as a composer of definite personality,
while in the more dramatic scenes she shows a fine grip of the principles of stage effect.
Her latest work 'Strandrecht,' in English 'The Wreckers' (1906), was produced at Leipzig, and
shortly afterwards was given at Prague. It has not yet found its way to London. The scene is
laid in Cornwall in the eighteenth century. The inhabitants of that wild coast, though fervent
Methodists, live by 'wrecking,' in which they are encouraged by their minister. Thurza, the
minister's faithless wife, alone protests against their cruelty and hypocrisy, and persuades
her lover, a young fisherman, to light fires in order to warn mariners from the dangerous coast.
The treachery, as it seems to the rest of the villagers, of Thurza and her lover is discovered,
and after a rough-and-ready trial they are left in a cavern close to the sea to be overwhelmed
by the rising tide. Miss Smyth's music is spoken of as strongly dramatic, and marked by a keen
sense of characterisation.

The operas of Mr. Isidore de Lara, a composer who, in spite of his name, is said to be of English
extraction, may conveniently be mentioned here. It is generally understood that the production
of these works at Covent Garden was due to causes other than their musical value, but in any
case they do not call for detailed criticism. Mr. de Lara's earlier works, 'The Light of Asia,'
'Amy Robsart,' and 'Moina' failed completely. There is better work in 'Messaline' (1899). The
musical ideas are poor in quality, but the score is put together in a workmanlike manner, and
the orchestration is often clever. The libretto, which recounts the intrigues of the Empress
Messalina with two brothers, Hares and Helion, a singer and a gladiator, is in the highest
degree repellent, and it would need far better music than Mr. de Lara's to reconcile a London
audience to so outrageous a subject. Mr. de Lara's latest production, 'Sanga' (1906), does
not seem to have sustained the promise of 'Messaline.' Another composer whom necessity has
driven to ally his music to a foreign libretto is Mr. Herbert Bunning, whose opera 'La Princesse
Osra' was produced at Covent Garden in 1902. Mr. Alick Maclean, whose 'Quentin Durward' and
'Petruccio' had already shown remarkable promise, has lately won considerable success in Germany
with 'Die Liebesgeige.'

Scanty is the catalogue of noteworthy operas with English words produced in recent years. The
most remarkable of them are Mr. Colin MacAlpin's 'The Cross and the Crescent,' which won the
prize offered by Mr. Charles Manners in 1903 for an English opera, and Mr. Nicholas Gatty's
'Greysteel,' a very able and musicianly setting of an episode from one of the Norse sagas,
which was produced at Sheffield in 1906.

It is difficult to be sanguine as to the prospects of English opera. Circumstances are certainly
against the production of original work in this country, though it is legitimate to hope that
the recent revival of interest in Sullivan's works may lead our composers to devote their energies
to the higher forms of comic opera. Anything is better than the mere imitation of foreign models
which has for so long been characteristic of English opera. By turning to the melodies of his
native land, Weber founded German opera, and if we are ever to have a school of opera in England
we must begin by building upon a similar foundation.

INDEX OF OPERAS

A Basso Porto (Spinelli), 300 Abreise, Die (D'Albert), 313 Abu Hassan (Weber), 89 Adriana Lecouvreur
(Ciléa), 298 Africaine, L' (Meyerbeer), 136 Agrippina (Handel), 15 Aida (Verdi), 271 Alceste
(Gluck), 25 Alceste (Lulli), 8 Alcina (Handel), 56 Alfonso und Estrella (Schubert), 104 Almira
(Handel), 13 Alzira (Verdi), 264 Amadis (Lulli), 8 Amant Jaloux, L' (Grétry), 45 Amica (Mascagni),
294 Amico Fritz, L' (Mascagni), 293 Amy Robsart (De Lara), 348 Ancêtre, L' (Saint Saëns), 238
Andrea Chénier (Giordano), 297 Anna Bolena (Donizetti), 116 Aphrodite (Erlanger), 259 Ariane
(Massenet), 249 Ariane et Barbe-Bleue (Dukas), 259 Arianna (Monteverde), 4 Armide (Gluck),
32 Artaserse (Gluck), 20 Artaxerxes (Arne), 324 Ascanio (Saint Saëns), 236 Asrael (Franchetti),
301 Astarté (Leroux), 259 Attaque du Moulin, L' (Bruneau), 253 Attila (Verdi), 264 Aucassin
und Nicolette (Enna), 322

Ballo in Maschera, Un (Verdi), 269 Barbares, Les (Saint Saëns), 236 Barbier von Bagdad, Der
(Cornelius), 303 Barbiere di Siviglia, Il (Paisiello), 49 Barbiere di Siviglia, Il (Rossini),
107 Bardes, Les (Lesueur), 78 Bärenhäuter, Der (S. Wagner), 313 Basoche, La (Messager), 259
Bastien und Bastienne (Mozart), 52 Battaglia di Legnano, La (Verdi), 265 Bauer ein Schelm,
Der (Dvorak), 318 Béatrice et Bénédict (Berlioz), 143 Beauty Stone, The (Sullivan), 344 Beggar's
Opera, The (Pepusch), 323 Benvenuto Cellini (Berlioz), 143 Betly (Donizetti), 116 Bohème, La
(Leoncavallo), 296 Bohème, La (Puccini), 286 Bohemian Girl, The (Balfe), 325 Bonduca (Purcell),
11 Brides of Venice, The (Benedict), 328 Bruder Lustig (S. Wagner), 313 Bruid van der Zee,
De (Blockx), 260

Cabrera, La (Dupont), 259 Caduta de' Giganti (Gluck), 21 Canterbury Pilgrims, The (Stanford),
333 Carmélite, La (Hahn), 259 Carmen (Bizet), 227 Castor et Pollux (Rameau), 24 Cavalleria
Rusticana (Mascagni), 292 Cendrillon (Massenet), 246 Cendrillon (Nicolo), 85 Châlet, Le (Adam),
149 Chatterton (Leoncavallo), 296 Chérubin (Massenet), 248 Chi sofre speri (Mazzocchi and Marazzoli),
40 Chieftain, The (Sullivan), 343 Chopin (Orefice), 300 Christus (Rubinstein), 321 Cid, Der
(Cornelius), 305 Cid, Le (Massenet), 244 Cinq-Mars (Gounod), 223 Circe (Banister), 10 Clemenza
di Tito, La (Mozart), 68 Cleopatra (Enna), 322 Colomba (Mackenzie), 331 Colombe, La (Gounod),
220 Contes d' Hoffmann, Les (Offenbach), 229 Contrabandista, The (Sullivan), 339 Corsaro, Il
(Verdi), 265 Così fan tutte (Mozart), 67 Cox and Box (Sullivan), 339 Cricket on the Hearth,
The (Goldmark), 308 Cricket on the Hearth, The (Mackenzie), 332 Crispino e la Comare (Ricci),
124 Cristoforo Colombo (Franchetti), 301 Cross and the Crescent, The (MacAlpin), 348 Czar und
Zimmermann (Lortzing), 102

Dafne (Peri), 2 Dafne (Schütz), 12 Dalibor (Smetana), 318 Dame Blanche, La (Boieldieu), 85
Damnation de Faust, La (Berlioz), 145 Danaïdes, Les (Salieri), 75 Daria (Marty), 259 Deidamia
(Handel), 16 Demon, The (Rubinstein), 321 Déserteur, Le (Monsigny), 45 Deux Avares, Les (Grétry),
45 Deux Journées, Les (Cherubini), 77 Devin du Village, Le (Rousseau), 44 Dickschädel, Der
(Dvorak) 318 Dido and Æneas (Purcell), 10 Dinorah (Meyerbeer), 141 Djamileh (Bizet), 227 Doktor
und Apotheker (Dittersdorf), 84 Dolores (Auteri-Manzocchi), 300 Don Carlos (Verdi), 270 Don
César de Bazan (Massenet), 240 Don Giovanni (Mozart), 64 Don Pasquale (Donizetti), 118 Donna
Diana (Reznicek), 313 Dori, La (Cesti), 14 Dornröschen (Humperdinck), 312 Dorothy (Cellier),
345 Drei Pintos, Die (Weber), 97 Duc d'Albe, Le (Donizetti), 116 Due Foscari, I (Verdi), 264

Ebreo, L' (Apolloni), 280 Echo et Narcisse (Gluck), 38 Edgar (Puccini), 285 Eleonora (Paer),
50 Elisir d'Amore, L' (Donizetti), 119 Emerald Isle, The (Sullivan), 344 Enfant Roi, L' (Bruneau),
255 Enrico di Borgogna (Donizetti), 113 Entführung aus dem Serail, Die (Mozart), 56 Ernani
(Verdi), 263 Érostrate (Reyer), 238 Erschaffene, gefallene und aufgerichtete Mensch, Der (Theile),
12 Esclarmonde (Massenet), 244 Esmeralda (A.G. Thomas), 330 Étienne Marcel (Saint Saëns), 235
Étoile du Nord, L' (Meyerbeer), 139 Étranger, L' (Indy), 256 Eugene Onegin (Tchaikovsky), 321
Eulenspiegel (Kistler), 309 Euridice (Peri), 2 Euryanthe (Weber), 93 Evangelimann, Der (Kienzl),
313

