As the downfall of snow continues very heavy some tough poles are cut down and one end of them
so fastened in the snow that they are firmly held.  They are so slanted toward the fire, with
the wind in the rear, that when roofed over with the big deerskin and a couple dropped each
side it is astonishing how comfortably sheltered a few persons thus can be.  The active Indians
shook the dry snow off from some robes, and placing them as a floor Mr Ross and the boys were
soon under a storm- tight roof and gazing into the great fire just before them, that gave them
both warmth and cheer.  A hot breakfast was enjoyed as soon as the Indians could cook it.

Some of the Indians improvised a similar lean-to for themselves, while others stood out in
the gale around the fire perfectly unconcerned.  To them the heavy storm was as little heeded
as the songs of the robins in springtime, or the summer zephyrs among the trees.

Owing to the delay of a half day on account of this disagreeable storm, the party did not reach
the vicinity of the beaver house until toward evening.  So it was resolved to find a good place
for the camp, as the Indian hunters who owned this house said they would not take the beavers
until the third day in the afternoon, and then they would take all they decided to in a short
time.  This was, of course, all a mystery to the boys, and so they were obliged to have patience,
and witness the contest between animal instinct and cunning, and man's reason, observation,
and ingenuity.

The spot selected for the camp was not far from the beaver house, which stood in its symmetrical
proportions well covered with snow, and looked like a great haystack in some farmer's yard at home.

The boys had observed on the sled of these Indians who owned the beaver house a little wicker-like
basket well-lined with rabbit skin.  One day, when peering into it, two fierce little dogs
snapped at them most viciously, and seemed very much annoyed at their intrusion.  In the evening
at the camp fire they asked Mr Ross about them, and were surprised to hear that they are what
are called beaver dogs.  He said they were valuable, for with their help the Indians would
get the beaver in a very novel which they would see commenced to-morrow.  Mr Ross cautioned
the boys not to put their naked hands near the vicious brutes, as they were very fierce, and
especially disliked white people.

The camp was a well-sheltered, comfortable one for such a place, and as the storm had completely
passed away, the evening, although very cold, was a fairly enjoyable one.  The routine at this
camp was similar to the first.  The only excitement the boys had, was when one of the Indians
came in from exploring the beaver house and dam, and told them that a large wolverine was seen
walking on the dam the heavers had made, and then round and round the beaver house.

"Beaver plenty safe there," he added, in his broken English.  "Wall four feet thick.  Frost
make all like stone.  Only one door, and that under the thick ice and water.  Wolverine no
catch beaver in that house." Then he added: "Beaver there for Injun to take.  White boys see
how him do it quick, two days more.  Plenty work first, then plenty beaver."

This picturesque talk to the boys was very interesting, and so they were all eager to see,
as Sam said, "the curtain go up and the show begin."

As nothing could be done the next day before daylight, there was no particular hurry in getting
up.  After giving orders to the men who were left in charge at the camp to see that the dogs
there remained, and that everything was kept in the best of order, and dinner ready at a certain
hour, Mr Ross and the boys, like the rest, strapped on their snowshoes and away they tramped.
The Indian hunters had the little dogs with them.  These they carefully carried and kept covered
up when not at work.  The boys were first taken to the top of a hill, from which the whole
pond, dam, and beaver house could be distinctly seen.  Then Mr Ross explained that, while the
beaver generally dwelt in their house during the winter, they had in addition what the Indians
called kitchens.  These were cunningly hid along the shore at the edge of the ice.  All were
now out of sight and under the snow.  They were ingeniously made, in such a way that the beaver
by frequently visiting them and breaking away the ice, as it formed on the inside, could thus
keep them open.  They were really breathing places for the beaver in case they should be attacked
in their houses and driven out.

Inexperienced hunters often try to get the beaver by chopping, digging, or even blasting with
gunpowder a hole into the beaver house.  If the pond is well supplied with kitchens, or breathing
places, the beavers need only laugh at such hunters, for just as soon as they become alarmed
by these outside noises they plunge into the water, which is always open in the warm house,
and dive out under the outer edge and away they go under the thick ice to the kitchens, which
are so cunningly hid away. There they quietly remain and breathe the air, which is necessary
as it comes through the light snow, and through the rushes and reeds, from which they keep
the ice.  When the noise is over and the beavers think that their enemies have gone, they go
back to the house.  If the invaders have much destroyed the house, the beavers desert it entirely
and live in these kitchens until the spring freshets come and melt and carry away the ice.

Sometimes a large colony of beavers with a big house will have twenty kitchens.  If one is
discovered they swim to another.  We must remember that the beaver, although an amphibious
animal and able to remain quite a time under water, requires fresh air, and so must go where
he can get it, or he will die.  The length of time that a beaver can live under the ice without
air is a matter of dispute, even among the experienced hunters themselves.  They all, however,
agree in saying that, when beavers find all of their retreats cut off, as a last resort they
come up to the ice and breathe out the air in their lungs against the ice, and then, when it
is good, they breathe it in again.  But the trouble is that they lose some air bubbles each
time, and so they soon become exhausted and die.

In the meantime, while these interesting explanations were being made to the boys the Indians
had commenced their operations.  They had cut down a couple of small green birch trees which
were eight or ten inches in diameter.  Then they cut off lengths of about eight feet each.
On these they vigorously set to work with their axes, and so cut or trimmed these down, except
a foot or fifteen inches at one end, so that when finished they were like gigantic pounders.

With these made and thrown over their shoulders they took their way to the pond, only carrying
in addition the two little dogs.  When the pond was reached the little dogs were set down in
the snow near the edge.  At first they only moaned and shivered and begged to be again taken
up by their masters.  These, however, had no intention of doing anything of the kind.

"Umisk!  Umisk!" they excitedly cried, and soon this Indian word for "beaver" began to have
its effect upon the dogs.  Pricking up their ears, they began running about, until at length,
with a couple of yelps of triumph, they were off.  They hurried away as fast as their little
legs could carry them through the light snow to a spot near the shore. Here they began making
the snow fly as rapidly as was possible with their fore paws.  One of the Indians assisted
them by utilising his snowshoe as a shovel, and, sure enough, there at the very edge of the
ice they found a mass of rushes and grass most cunningly arranged, with a little space in the
centre where it was open water.  This was a beaver's kitchen that had been so cunningly discovered
by the keen scent of the little dogs.

As soon as it had been discovered the Indians quickly picked up the little dogs and stowed
the shivering creatures in warm bags on their backs.  Now the boys were able to see the use
to which these great big pounders, hewn out of the young birch trees, were put.  With both
of them the men began vigorously pounding down the coarse grass and rushes, and left the place
so exposed that in a few hours it would be so solidly frozen over that not a particle of air
could enter.

Leaving this kitchen now completely destroyed, they began skirting the shore for a little distance
up farther from the beaver house.  Once more they lifted the little dogs out of the warm bags
and placed the shivering animals on the ice.  Then again the cry rang out, "Umisk! Umisk!"
The result was as before.  Like as an electric shock these words acted upon these queer little
dogs, and at once they seemed to forget all about the cold and most vigorously set to work,
and in a very few minutes had discovered another kitchen.  This one was destroyed in the same
manner as was the first.

Thus on and on they cautiously prospected and worked.  At one place where they had gone but
a short distance from the last kitchen destroyed, suddenly one of the little dogs obstinately
turned back and rushed to a spot where even the most experienced Indian had not the slightest
suspicion of anything being, until the keen instinct of the dog discovered it.  Following up
the little fellow to the spot where he was now barking most furiously, the men had not dug
long in the snow before they found the most cunningly hid away kitchen on the whole pond. So
large was it, and so well arranged as the breathing place of a large number of beavers, that
the hunters declared that if they had let that single one escape them they would have completely
failed when they made their attack upon the beaver house.  This sharpness on the part of the
little dog made the men the more careful, and so it was noon ere the end of the pond was reached
and about half of this work was completed.

Dinner was ready for all when they returned to the camp.  The boys were hungry and the cold
had helped to sharpen their appetites.

"How is it?" said Sam, "that I find myself picking out the fattest part of the meat and hardly
caring to eat anything else?"

"That is," said Mr Ross, "because you are in first-class health.  And Nature, true to her instincts,
is giving you and the rest of us the craving for just the kind of food that is now best adapted
to our requirements.  Fat food has more heat in it than any other kind, and so that which you
here crave is that which is really the most suitable. Living as we now are, day and night,
out in the open air in this sharp cold weather, we require much more heat to keep us up to
our normal temperature than if we were inside of the warm walls of Sagasta-weekee."

When dinner was ended the party returned to the pond, and the work of discovering and destroying
the remaining beavers' kitchens went on all the afternoon.  The following night the two Indian
hunters, upon whom so much depended, did not take any sleep, but with their heavy pounders
kept on the alert against the efforts of the clever beavers.  When they returned to the camp
for a hasty breakfast in the morning they reported that they had had a very busy night, as
the beavers seemed to have become possessed with the idea that an attack was soon to be made
upon them in their house.  The result was they were very active all night, and persistent in
their efforts to break through the new ice as it formed, and thus, if possible, keep some of
their kitchens available in case of need.  Some were so bold that if the Indians had been so
inclined they could easily have speared them, as they so bravely charged the new ice with their
heads and broke it up.  They said that at that largest kitchen, which they so nearly overlooked,
the beavers made their most persistent attacks.  At times as many as a half dozen would together
strike bravely at the ice.  However, they thought that they had now succeeded in getting every
place frozen air-tight and they could safely begin the work of attack upon the house, so that
they would be ready by to-morrow to begin the capture of the beaver.

Axes and ice chisels were the powerful tools required to-day.  Beginning at the shore on each
side of the beaver house, the Indians cut two channels in the ice about a foot wide, and so
converging that they met about six feet in front of the house.  Then the ice was cut out about
ten feet further into the pond directly in front of the house.  The capital letter Y will give
a correct idea of the cuttings thus made. The upper two lines are the ones from the shore on
each side of the beaver house; the lower and wider part of the letter represents the channel
cut in front.  This was perhaps ten feet long and about two feet in width.

The next step was by careful measurement with a long pole to find the depth of the water in
these channels thus free of ice.  When this was done everybody able to handle an axe was soon
busily at work cutting down small trees into poles not less than four inches in diameter, and
so long that when well driven in the mud the tops would still be considerably above the ice.
None but straight, strong ones were of any use.  Then, beginning close to the shore, the Indians,
using, of course, the shorter poles where the water was shallow, began driving them in the
mud through the channels cut in the ice.  They worked very carefully, for the beaver when aroused
is a strong as well as a cunning animal, and the hunter who would not fail must be prepared
for every emergency.  The poles were driven in the two upper sides until the approaching columns
of them came within about two feet of each other at the front.  From this point the Indians
turned and began driving the poles in the mud in two lines, parallel to each other, running
out into the pond.  This left a channel, allowing for the diameter of the poles, of, say, from
twelve to fifteen inches wide and ten feet long.

Carefully examining and testing over and over again the grip of each pole which had been driven
into the mud at the bottom of the pond, the men were at length well satisfied with their work
and said: "Very good. Injun have much fine beaver this time.  We will have beavers' tails for
supper to-morrow night."

So anxious were those Indian hunters that even during the second night they slept but little,
and several times slipped away from the camp and walked around from kitchen to kitchen to see
that in every place the ice was firm and unbroken.  In the morning, when all were at breakfast,
they reported that as the cold had become so intense they felt confident of success and anticipated
the capture of a large number of beaver.  For days they had been working up to this consummation.
Experienced men grimly and remorselessly had pitted their long years of experience against
the instincts and cunning of a colony of beavers, and, as it always is, in the end, man must
conquer.

"What are you going to do next?" is the question of the boys.  All the answer, however, they
receive, is to be patient and they will soon see for themselves.  Their interest, however,
is increased when to all is uttered the command, "Get all the guns ready, and load them heavily
with powder."  With several extra charges they are all soon on their way to the beaver house.
When there they find that the water in the channel cut in the front yesterday has ice on it
fully six inches in thickness. This will give some idea of the severity of the cold, but nobody
seems to notice it in the excitement of the hour.  Very quickly is this ice broken up and thrown
out on the frozen surface of the pond.

One of the Indians has in his hand a long, stiff rod about the size of a bamboo fish pole.
This will play an important part in the capture of the beaver, as we shall see later on.  The
next part of the program is of great interest to the boys.  Everybody now goes to the land
side of the beaver house, and at once there begins the greatest din and racket it is possible
for the whole party to make.  The guns are all fired off, and loaded and fired again and again.
The men with their great pounders most vigorously beat against the solid walls on the land
side, as though they would burst in upon the now terrified inhabitants.  This attack and noise
continued until it is supposed that all of the frightened animals have fled away from the house,
which they must have imagined was about being knocked to pieces about their ears.  The result
is the house is deserted, and the now frightened beaver are away out somewhere in the pond,
swimming under the ice.

As soon as the Indians feel confident that all have forsaken the house they hurry out on the
pond in the front.  Here in the open water, in the space between the poles which were so solidly
driven, the long slender pole is pushed down firmly through the water into the mud at the bottom
of the pond.  One of the Indians now quickly pulls off his shirt sleeve, as well as that of
his coat, and throws himself down on the ice close to the open channel which has been described.
His comrade quickly throws a warm blanket over him to at least partly protect him from the
intense cold.  Then, arming himself with a heavy axe, this second Indian quietly steps back
a pace or two.

"Hush!  Everybody keep still or sit down on the ice, and do not utter a word.  Do not move
your feet on the ice; do not even breathe heavily, for beavers have wonderful powers of hearing."

Promptly had everyone obeyed Mr Ross, who had uttered these commands. He had placed the boys
where they could easily see the wonderful way, in which these experienced hunters would quickly
gather up their beaver harvest, after all their effort and toil.

But where are the beavers?  They are in all probability out under the ice, swimming about from
one kitchen to another, vainly trying to find one in which they can get their lungs full of
fresh air.  If the men and those saucy little dogs have been successful in closing up all of
these resorts, vain are the beavers' efforts.  For a long time these wonderful creatures are
able to keep alive under water, but there is a limit to this ability, and then it becomes a
matter of life or death to them. Thus it now was with these beavers.  They had been frightened
from their home, and had hoped to be able to obtain fresh air at places carefully prepared
for just such emergencies.  But, alas! these have failed them, and now there is nothing else
to do but to make the effort to get back to their home as soon as possible.  This, they now
find, is no easy matter.  A strange barricade of stakes is in the way, and there is only one
opening, and even that is a very narrow one.  But they are now in such sad straits for fresh
air that they must try that one place and get to their home or perish.

Meanwhile the boys, sitting so still and quiet on the ice, began to think that it was getting
very monotonous, especially Sam, who found it to be extremely difficult to have to hold his
tongue so long.  But look! The top of that long slender twig is being roughly shaken, and quick
as a flash down goes the naked arm of the alert Indian, and as rapidly does it come up again,
and in the strong grasp of his hand is a fine, large beaver.  With a sudden swinging movement
he sends it sprawling out on the ice, where his comrade is waiting to dispatch it with his axe.

Now the boys see the important part played by that little stick.  See, it moves again, and
once more the long, naked arm is thrust down and another great beaver is thrown out on the
ice.  This one, like his predecessor, is quickly dispatched.  For a time all is still again.
The beavers crowding behind these two that have been so readily captured have been frightened
by their sudden movements, so unnatural, and so they hesitated to follow.  But others are closely
following behind, and all are suffering acutely now for the want of fresh air, and thus it
is only a minute or two before the moving stick tells the story that another beaver is making
the attempt to reach a spot where he can get some fresh air.  Vain indeed are his efforts,
for no sooner does he touch that fatal stick than down goes that strong, muscular hand and
arm and he is thrown out on the ice, to be killed in the same manner as were his fellows.

See what a splendid black beaver that is!  But, O dear! he has lost him. Yes, he has.  That
is too bad, and he brought him up far enough for his head to be out of the water, and so he
once more filled up his lungs, and as he tumbled in he fell beyond the stick.  So that one
is lost for this year.

But there is no time for mourning over the loss of one, even if he was a beauty.  They crowd
up quickly now, and the Indians are busy.  They keep cool and alert, for the harvest is increasing.

The condition of the beavers is now so desperate that recklessly they are crowding on, and
although the man is pulling them out as rapidly as possible it is evident that numbers, especially
of the smaller ones, are slipping by, and thus are lost for that year.  In order to secure
a greater number the second Indian gives his axe to Mr Ross and goes to the help of his comrade.

No need of quiet now.  The remaining beavers must get by that stick or perish, and as they
make the attempt, while some are captured, many others escape.  Thus it goes on until the last
one has either been secured by the Indians or has eluded them.  Let us hope that he escaped
to live another year.

"Count the spoils, boys," shouts Mr Ross.  No second command is needed. They collect them together
and find that there are forty-seven of them, and not a small one among them.  In addition,
there were plenty that escaped to restock the house, and in two years it will in all probability
be as rich a beaver harvest field as it has been to-day.

Winter Adventures of Three Boys--by Egerton R.  Young

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

WISE ECONOMY OF INDIAN HUNTERS--GAME NEVER ALL KILLED--BEAVERS' TAILS-- THE BOYS INTERESTED
IN THEM--PREPARATIONS FOR THE RETURN TRIP--LOADS PACKED--WOLVERINES--THEIR CUNNING THEFT OF
FIVE BEAVERS--DOGS AND MEN ON THEIR TRAIL--SURVIVING BEAVERS ALREADY AT WORK--THE RETURN OF
THE HUNTERS--CAPTURED WOLVERINES--JOURNEY RESUMED--THE CAMP--THE CRY OF "WOLVES!"

Allowing a number of the beavers to escape was the almost universal custom of those northern
Indian hunters.  They never killed all the game of any kind.  Thus where they alone hunted,
the forests continued to yield their yearly supplies.  But when the white trapper enters with
his steel traps and poisons he kills all before him, if possible, even if he does not secure
one half of it.  The result is that great regions once rich in valuable fur-bearing animals
are now as completely denuded of them as are the prairies of the once countless herds of buffalo.
Pathetic is the picture of the last of the buffalo!

The call, loud and clear, was sent by the far-reaching voice of one of the hunters to the watchers
at the camp, and speedily in answer came a couple of trains of dogs.  These were attached to
the two now well- filled sleds, and the whole party, flushed with triumph at their success,
returned to the camp.  They are all in good trim for their dinner, and speedily is it dispatched,
for all these beavers must be skinned, if possible, before they freeze.

The Indian servants of Mr Ross aid the hunters, and so the work is rapidly done.  As the flesh
of the beaver is very much prized as an article of food, the carcasses were carefully prepared.
The tails were left attached to the bodies, with the exception of a half dozen, which were
left out for the evening meal.  These tails very much interested and amused the boys, not only
on account of their odd appearance, but because of the many queer tales they had heard about
them.  The tail of the beaver serves as a rudder to its owner when he is swimming.  It aids
him in various ways when he is building his cozy house and marvellously constructed dam.  Next
to his powerful teeth it is his best weapon of defence, as with it he can strike a very heavy
blow.  Thus it was no wonder that the boys were interested in these half dozen tails, on which
they expected to dine that evening.

The process of preparation was very simple.  The tails were from twelve to fifteen inches long
and from six to eight inches in width, and about an inch thick.  They were oval-shaped, somewhat
resembling in appearance a mason's trowel.  They were covered with close-fitting, fishlike
scales.  The first thing necessary in preparing them for the table is to hold them so close
to a hot fire that the scales will speedily blister off.  The next thing is to boil them for
a long time, especially if they are the tails of old beavers.  Then it is best to allow them
to get thoroughly cold, as they taste very much better then, than when eaten hot.  On carving
them the correct method is to cut the meat in long strips from the powerful central bone. 
These are then to be served up and eaten with a little salt.  Beavers' tails thus prepared
make a very dainty dish.  Indeed, it is one of the great delicacies of the country, prized
alike by both Indians and travellers.  The other two great delicacies of the country are the
moose's nose and the bear's paws.

"That looks queer to me," said Sam, "that the delicacies of a country should be the beaver's
tail, the bear's paws, and the moose's nose.  If such is the case, you see that when here eating
even the delicacies of the land you are reduced to extremities!"

"A very good one, Sam," shouted the boys.  "Old Ireland forever!"

The beavers' tails, although never tasted before by the boys, were very much enjoyed by them.
They racked their brains and memories to try and think of some article of food that had a taste
somewhat similar, but had to give it up.  So they had to agree with Alec that if you wished
to know just how beavers' tails tasted--well, you must eat one.

As the evening promised to be a calm and beautiful one, Mr Ross said that they had better start
not long after midnight.  They could travel on the back trail until they reached the camp where
the storm had struck them without much difficulty; after which in all probability they would
have to make a fresh trail.  A blizzard storm in that land quickly obliterates a trail, and
thus the return journey is often made without a single evidence of any other trip ever having
been made in that region of country.  Their great success in capturing so many beavers meant
a large additional weight on their sleds.  However, against that was the fact that their vigorous
appetites had very considerably reduced the weight of their outfit, and in addition their dogs
had, since they left home, devoured about a thousand-weight of fish.  Forty-seven beavers weigh
a good deal when they have to be drawn many scores of miles on dog-sleds, and so, in spite
of the lightened loads, it was no easy matter to arrange them on the sleds.

That they might be ready to make the desired start in good time, it was thought best that Mr
Ross and the boys should go to bed in their camp outfit as has been described, while the men
should load up the sleds as far as possible, just leaving sufficient room in the deerskin wrappings
for the packing away of the bedding and the other essentials required at the midnight meal.
This meant that the Indians would have at least two hours' less sleep than the whites.  This
would be no unusual occurrence. As a general thing the Indians sleep very little when travelling,
in summer or winter.  This is especially the case when they are employed as canoemen or dog-drivers.
They are so alert and watchful and anxious that everything should go right, that often white
men have travelled for weeks together with several of these red men in their employ, without
ever having once seen one of them asleep.  They seldom think of lying down until long after
their employers have gone to sleep, and then they are up long before them in the mornings.
And yet how few there are who have given these most vigilant and faithful of comrades or servants
their due meed of praise!

To the music of the few quiet whispered words of the men, as they actively attended to the
work of packing up the sleds, Mr Ross and the boys quickly fell into dreamless slumber.  When
the men had finished packing and fastening up the loads they dragged them out in line on the
homeward trail, leaving sufficient space between the sleds for the dogs when they should be
harnessed to them.  The result was that the whole line of sleds, when thus stretched out, extended
quite a distance from the camp.

Loud were the shoutings and many were the indignant utterances which quickly aroused Mr Ross
and his young bedfellows from their slumbers.

"What is the matter?" demanded Mr Ross.

"Wolverines!" was the quick response.

Great indeed was the excitement, and at first the boys could hardly realise how the mention
of that one word could cause such commotion. Even Mr Ross was about as much excited as anyone
else.  While guns were being loaded, and other preparations were being made for a speedy hunt,
the cause of all the excitement was soon told.  It was that, in spite of the presence of so
many persons and dogs, the wolverines had crept up to the sleds, and had stolen away five of
the best beavers, and in addition had so badly scented with their horrid odour more than a
dozen others that they were absolutely worthless.

"How was it possible that none of the dogs detected them?" asked Mr Ross.  "They are generally
sleeping in various places around the camp. I am sure I cannot understand how those brutes,
cunning as they are, could play such a trick upon us."

In response to this one of the men explained that after they had finished arranging their loads
they went out and brought into the camp all of the dogs, so as to have no trouble in finding
them when they would be required.  They stated also that, during the brief time they tried
to get a little sleep, some of the dogs were very restless, and they had to speak sternly to
them to induce them to be quiet.  Then he added:

"The dogs most uneasy were those of Sam's train.  Several times they growled, and were very
uneasy.  Spitfire was the worst, and acted like a dog ready for a fight."

