In justice to the memory of a monarch, to whom justice has never been done, it should be remarked,
in passing, that Edward IV. deserved the favors of Fortune, if talent for war insures success
in war. He was, so far as success goes, one of the greatest soldiers that ever lived. He never
fought a battle that he did not win, and he never won a battle without annihilating his foe.
He was not yet nineteen when he commanded at Towton, at the head of almost fifty thousand men;
and two months before he had gained the Battle of Mortimer's Cross, under circumstances that
showed skillful generalship. No similar instance of precocity is to be found in the military
history of mankind. His victories have been attributed to Warwick, but it is noticeable that
he was as successful over Warwick as he had been over the Lancastrians, against whom Warwick
originally fought. Barnet was, with fewer combatants, as remarkable an action as Towton; and
at Mortimer's Cross Warwick was not present, while he fought and lost the second battle of
St. Alban's seventeen days after Edward had won his first victory. Warwick was not a general,
but a magnificent paladin, resembling much Coeur de Lion, and most decidedly out of place in
the England of the last half of the fifteenth century. What is peculiarly remarkable in Edward's
case is this: he had received no military training beyond that which was common to all high-born
youths in that age. The French wars had long been over, and what had happened in the early
years of the Roses' quarrel was certainly not calculated to make generals out of children.
In this respect Edward stands quite alone in the list of great commanders. Alexander, Hannibal,
the first Scipio Africanus, Pompeius, Don John of Austria, Condé, Charles XII., Napoleon, and
some other young soldiers of the highest eminence, were either all regularly instructed in
the military art, or succeeded to the command of veteran armies, or were advised and assisted
by old and skilful generals. Besides, they were all older than Edward when they first had independent
command. Gaston de Foix approaches nearest to the Yorkist king, but he gained only one battle,
was older at Ravenna than Edward was at Towton, and perished in the hour of victory. Clive,
perhaps, may be considered as equalling the Plantagenet king in original genius for war, but
the scene of his actions, and the materials with which he wrought, were so very different from
those of other youthful commanders, that no just comparison can be made between him and any
one of their number.

The English have asserted that they lost the Battle of Falkirk, in 1746, because of the severity
of a snow-storm that took place when they went into action, a strong wind blowing the snow
straight into their faces; and one of the causes of the defeat of the Highlanders at Culloden,
three months later, was another fall of snow, which was accompanied by wind that then blew
into their faces. Fortune was impartial, and made the one storm to balance the other.

That the American army was not destroyed soon after the Battle of Long Island must be attributed
to the foggy weather of the 29th of August, 1776. But for the successful retreat of Washington's
army from Long Island, on the night of the 29th-30th, the Declaration of Independence would
have been made waste paper in "sixty days" after its adoption; and that retreat could not have
been made, had there not been a dense fog under cover of which to make it, and to deter the
enemy from action. Washington and his whole army would have been slain or captured, could the
British forces have had clear weather in which to operate. "The fog which prevailed all this
time," says Irving, "seemed almost Providential. While it hung over Long Island, and concealed
the movements of the Americans, the atmosphere was clear on the New York side of the river.
The adverse wind, too, died away, the river became so smooth that the rowboats could be laden
almost to the gunwale; and a favoring breeze sprang up for the sail-boats. The whole embarkation
of troops, ammunition, provisions, cattle, horses, and carts, was happily effected, and by
daybreak the greater part had safely reached the city, thanks to the aid of Glover's Marblehead
men. Scarce anything was abandoned to the enemy, excepting a few heavy pieces of artillery.
At a proper time, Mifflin with his covering party left the lines, and effected a silent retreat
to the ferry. Washington, though repeatedly entreated, refused to enter a boat until all the
troops were embarked, and crossed the river with the last." Americans should ever regard a
fog with a certain reverence, for a fog saved their country in 1776.

That Poland was not restored to national rank by Napoleon I. was in some measure owing to the
weather of the latter days of 1806. Those of the French officers who marched through the better
portions of that country were for its restoration, but others who waded through its terrible
mud took different ground in every sense. Hence there was a serious difference of opinion in
the French councils on this vitally important subject, which had its influence on Napoleon's
mind. The severe winter-weather of 1806-7, by preventing the Emperor from destroying the Russians,
which he was on the point of doing, was prejudicial to the interests of Poland; for the ultimate
effect was, to compel France to treat with Russia as equal with equal, notwithstanding the
crowning victory of Friedland. This done, there was no present hope of Polish restoration,
as Alexander frankly told the French Emperor that the world would not be large enough for them
both, if he should seek to renew Poland's rank as a nation. So far as the failure of the French
in 1812 is chargeable upon the weather, the weather must be considered as having been again
the enemy of Poland; for Napoleon would have restored that country, had he succeeded in his
Russian campaign. Such restoration would then have been a necessity of his position. But it
was not the weather of Russia that caused the French failure of 1812. That failure was all
but complete before the invaders of Russia had experienced any very severe weather. The two
powers that conquered Napoleon were those which General Von Knesebeck had pointed out to Alexander
as sure to be too much for him,--Space and Time. The cold, frosts, and snows of Russia simply
completed what those powers had so well begun, and so well done.

In the grand campaign of 1813, the weather had an extraordinary influence on Napoleon's fortunes,
the rains of Germany really doing him far more mischief than he had experienced from the snows
of Russia; and, oddly enough, a portion of this mischief came to him through the gate of victory.
The war between the French and the Allies was renewed the middle of August, and Napoleon purposed
crushing the Army of Silesia, under old Blücher, and marched upon it; but he was recalled by
the advance of the Grand Army of the Allies upon Dresden; for, if that city had fallen into
their hands, his communications with the Rhine would have been lost. Returning to Dresden,
he restored affairs there on the 26th of August; and on the 27th, the Battle of Dresden was
fought, the last of his great victories. It was a day of mist and rain, the mist being thick,
and the rain heavy. Under cover of the mist, Murat surprised a portion of the Austrian infantry,
and, as their muskets were rendered unserviceable by the rain, they fell a prey to his horse,
who were assisted by infantry and artillery, more than sixteen thousand men being killed, wounded,
or captured. The left wing of the Allies was annihilated. So far all was well for the Child
of Destiny; but Nemesis was preparing to exact her dues very swiftly. A victory can scarcely
be so called, unless it be well followed up; and whether Dresden should be another Austerlitz
depended upon what might be done during the next two or three days. Napoleon did not act with
his usual energy on that critical occasion, and in seven months he had ceased to reign. Why
did he refrain from reaping the fruits of victory? Because the weather, which had been so favorable
to his fortunes on the 27th, was quite as unfavorable to his person. On that day he was exposed
to the rain for twelve hours, and when he returned to Dresden, at night, he was wet to the
skin, and covered with mud, while the water was streaming from his chapeau, which the storm
had knocked out of a cocked hat. It was a peculiarity of Napoleon's constitution, that he could
not expose himself to damp without bringing on a pain in the stomach; and this pain seized
him at noon on the 28th, when he had partaken of a repast at Pirna, whither he had gone in
the course of his operations against the beaten enemy. This illness caused him to cease his
personal exertions, but not from giving such orders as the work before him required him to
issue. Perhaps it would have had no evil effect, had it not been, that, while halting at Pirna,
news came to him of two great failures of distant armies, which led him to order the Young
Guard to halt at that place,--an order that cost him his empire. One more march in advance,
and Napoleon would have become greater than ever he had been; but that march was not made,
and so the flying foe was converted into a victorious army. For General Vandamme, who was at
the head of the chief force of the pursuing French, pressed the Allies with energy, relying
on the support of the Emperor, whose orders he was carrying out in the best manner. This led
to the Battle of Kulm, in which Vandamme was defeated, and his army destroyed for the time,
because of the overwhelming superiority of the enemy; whereas that action would have been one
of the completest French victories, had the Young Guard been ordered to march from Pirna, according
to the original intention. The roads were in a most frightful state, in consequence of the
wet weather; but, as a victorious army always finds food, so it always finds roads over which
to advance to the completion of its task, unless its chief has no head. Vandamme had a head,
and thought he was winning the Marshal's staff which Napoleon had said was awaiting him in
the midst of the enemy's retiring masses. So confident was he that the Emperor would support
him, that he would not retreat while yet it was in his power to do so; and the consequence
was that his corps d'armée was torn to pieces, and himself captured. Napoleon had the meanness
to charge Vandamme with going too far and seeking to do too much, as he supposed he was slain,
and therefore could not prove that he was simply obeying orders, as well as acting in exact
accordance with sound military principles. That Vandamme was right is established by the fact
that an order came from Napoleon to Marshal Mortier, who commanded at Pirna, to reinforce him
with two divisions; but the order did not reach Mortier until after Vandamme had been defeated.
Marshal Saint-Cyr, who was bound to aid Vandamme, was grossly negligent, and failed of his
duty; but even he would have acted well, had he been acting under the eye of the Emperor, as
would have been the case, had not the weather of the 27th broken down the health of Napoleon,
and had not other disasters to the French, all caused by the same storm that had raged around
Dresden, induced Napoleon to direct his personal attention to points remote from the scene
of his last triumph.[B]

[Footnote B: There was a story current that Napoleon's indisposition on the 28th of August
was caused by his eating heartily of a shoulder of mutton stuffed with garlic, not the wholesomest
food in the world; and the digestive powers having been reduced by long exposure to damp, this
dish may have been too much for them. Thiers says that the Imperial illness at Pirna was "a
malady invented by flatterers," and yet only a few pages before he says that "Napoleon proceeded
to Pirna, where he arrived about noon, and where, after having partaken of a slight repast,
he was seized with a pain in the stomach, to which he was subject after exposure to damp."
Napoleon suffered from stomach complaints from an early period of his career, and one of their
effects is greatly to lessen the powers of the sufferer's mind. His want of energy at Borodino
was attributed to a disordered stomach, and the Russians were simply beaten, not destroyed,
on that field. When he beard of Vandamme's defeat, Napoleon said, "One should make a bridge
of gold for a flying enemy, where it is impossible, as in Vandamme's case, to oppose to him
a bulwark of steel." He forgot that his own plan was to have opposed to the enemy a bulwark
of steel, and that the non-existence of that bulwark on the 30th of August was owing to his
own negligence. Still, the reverse at Kulm might not have proved so terribly fatal, had it
not been preceded by the reverses on the Katzbach, which also were owing to the heavy rains,
and news of which was the cause of the halting of so large a portion of his pursuing force
at Pirna, and the march of many of his best men back to Dresden, his intention being to attempt
the restoration of affairs in that quarter, where they had been so sadly compromised under
Macdonald's direction. He was as much overworked by the necessity of attending to so many theatres
of action as his armies were overmatched in the field by the superior numbers of the Allies.

But he had hours, we might say days, to settle his destiny, and was not tied down to a moment.
Afterward he had the fairness to admit that he had lost a great opportunity to regain the ascendency
in not supporting Vandamme with the whole of the Young Guard.]

When Napoleon was called from the pursuit of Blücher by Schwarzenberg's advance upon Dresden,
he confided the command of the army that was to act against that of Silesia to Marshal Macdonald,
a brave and honest man, but a very inferior soldier, yet who might have managed to hold his
own against so unscientific a leader as the fighting old hussar, had it not been for the terrible
rainstorm that began on the night of the 25th of August. The swelling of the rivers, some of
them deep and rapid, led to the isolation of the French divisions, while the rain was so severe
as to prevent them from using their muskets. Animated by the most ardent hatred, the new Prussian
levies, few of whom had been in service half as long as our volunteers, and many of whom were
but mere boys, rushed upon their enemies, butchering them with butt and bayonet, and forcing
them into the boiling torrent of the Katzbach. Puthod's division was prevented from rejoining
its comrades by the height of the waters, and was destroyed, though one of the best bodies
in the French army. The state of the country drove the French divisions together on the same
lines of retreat, creating immense confusion, and leading to the most serious losses of men
and matériel. Macdonald's blunder was in advancing after the storm began, and had lasted for
a whole night. His officers pointed out the danger of his course, but he was one of those men
who think, that, because they are not knaves, they can accomplish everything; but the laws
of Nature no more yield to honest stupidity than to clever roguery. The Baron Von Müffling,
who was present in Blücher's army, says, that, when the French attempted to protect their retreat
at the Katzbach with artillery, the guns stuck in the mud; and he adds,--"The field of battle
was so saturated by the incessant rain, that a great portion of our infantry left their shoes
sticking in the mud, and followed the enemy barefoot." Even a brook, called the Deichsel, was
so swollen by the rain that the French could cross it at only one place, and there they lost
wagons and guns. Old Blücher issued a thundering proclamation for the encouragement of his
troops. "In the battle on the Katzbach," he said to them, "the enemy came to meet you with
defiance. Courageously, and with the rapidity of lightning, you issued from behind your heights.
You scorned to attack them with musketry-fire: you advanced without a halt; your bayonets drove
them down the steep ridge of the valley of the raging Neisse and Katzbach. Afterwards you waded
through rivers and brooks swollen with rain. You passed nights in mud. You suffered for want
of provisions, as the impassable roads and want of conveyance hindered the baggage from following.
You struggled with cold, wet, privations, and want of clothing; nevertheless you did not murmur,--with
great exertions you pursued your routed foe. Receive my thanks for such laudable conduct. The
man alone who unites such qualities is a true soldier. One hundred and three cannons, two hundred
and fifty ammunition-wagons, the enemy's field-hospitals, their field-forges, their flour-wagons,
one general of division, two generals of brigade, a great number of colonels, staff and other
officers, eighteen thousand prisoners, two eagles, and other trophies, are in your hands. The
terror of your arms has so seized upon the rest of your opponents, that they will no longer
bear the sight of your bayonets. You have seen the roads and fields between the Katzbach and
the Bober: they bear the signs of the terror and confusion of your enemy." The bluff old General,
who at seventy had more "dash" than all the rest of the leaders of the Allies combined, and
who did most of the real fighting business of "those who wished and worked" Napoleon's fall,
knew how to talk to soldiers, which is a quality not always possessed by even eminent commanders.
Soldiers love a leader who can take them to victory, and then talk to them about it. Such a
man is "one of them."

Napoleon never recovered from the effects of the losses he experienced at Kulm and on the Katzbach,--losses
due entirely to the wetness of the weather. He went downward from that time with terrible velocity,
and was in Elba the next spring, seven months after having been on the Elbe. The winter campaign
of 1814, of which so much is said, ought to furnish some matter for a paper on weather in war;
but the truth is, that that campaign was conducted politically by the Allies. There was never
a time, after the first of February, when, if they had conducted the war solely on military
principles, they could not have been in Paris in a fortnight.

Napoleon's last campaign owed its lamentable decision to the peculiar character of the weather
on its last two days, though one would not look for such a thing as severe weather in June,
in Flanders. But so it was, and Waterloo would have been a French victory, and Wellington where
Henry was when he ran against Eclipse,--nowhere,--if the rain that fell so heavily on the 17th
of June had been postponed only twenty-four hours. Up to the afternoon of the 17th, the weather,
though very warm, was dry, and the French were engaged in following their enemies. The Anglo-Dutch
infantry had retreated from Quatre-Bras, and the cavalry was following, and was itself followed
by the French cavalry, who pressed it with great audacity. "The weather," says Captain Siborne,
"during the morning, had become oppressively hot; it was now a dead calm; not a leaf was stirring;
and the atmosphere was close to an intolerable degree; while a dark, heavy, dense cloud impended
over the combatants. The 18th [English] Hussars were fully prepared, and awaited but the command
to charge, when the brigade guns on the right commenced firing, for the purpose of previously
disturbing and breaking the order of the enemy's advance. The concussion seemed instantly to
rebound through the still atmosphere, and communicate, as an electric spark, with the heavily
charged mass above. A most awfully loud thunder-clap burst forth, immediately succeeded by
a rain which has never, probably, been exceeded in violence even within the tropics. In a very
few minutes the ground became perfectly saturated,--so much so, that it was quite impracticable
for any rapid movement of the cavalry." This storm prevented the French from pressing with
due force upon their retiring foes; but that would have been but a small evil, if the storm
had not settled into a steady and heavy rain, which converted the fat Flemish soil into a mud
that would have done discredit even to the "sacred soil" of Virginia, and the latter has the
discredit of being the nastiest earth in America. All through the night the windows of heaven
were open, as if weeping over the spectacle of two hundred thousand men preparing to butcher
each other. Occasionally the rain fell in torrents, greatly distressing the soldiers, who had
no tents. On the morning of the 18th the rain ceased, but the day continued cloudy, and the
sun did not show himself until the moment before setting, when for an instant he blazed forth
in full glory upon the forward movement of the Allies. One may wonder if Napoleon then thought
of that morning "Sun of Austerlitz," which he had so often apostrophized in the days of his
meridian triumphs. The evening sun of Waterloo was the practical antithesis to the rising sun
of Austerlitz.

The Battle of Waterloo was not begun until about twelve o'clock, because of the state of the
ground, which did not admit of the action of cavalry and artillery until several hours had
been allowed for its hardening. That inevitable delay was the occasion of the victory of the
Allies; for, if the battle had been opened at seven o'clock, the French would have defeated
Wellington's army before a Prussian regiment could have arrived on the field. It has been said
that the rain was as baneful to the Allies as to the French, as it prevented the early arrival
of the Prussians; but the remark comes only from persons who are not familiar with the details
of the most momentous of modern pitched battles. Bülow's Prussian corps, which was the first
to reach the field, marched through Wavre in the forenoon of the 18th; but no sooner had its
advanced guard--an infantry brigade, a cavalry regiment, and one battery--cleared that town,
than a fire broke out there, which greatly delayed the march of the remainder of the corps.
There were many ammunition-wagons in the streets, and, fearful of losing them, and of being
deprived of the means of fighting, the Prussians halted, and turned firemen for the occasion.
This not only prevented most of the corps from arriving early on the right flank of the French,
but it prevented the advanced guard from acting, Bülow being too good a soldier to risk so
small a force as that immediately at his command in an attack on the French army. It was not
until about half-past one that the Prussians were first seen by the Emperor, and then at so
great a distance that even with glasses it was difficult to say whether the objects looked
at were men or trees. But for the bad weather, it is possible that Bülow's whole corps, supposing
there had been no fire at Wavre, might have arrived within striking distance of the French
army by two o'clock, P.M.; but by that hour the battle between Napoleon and Wellington would
have been decided, and the Prussians would have come up only to "augment the slaughter," had
the ground been hard enough for operations at an early hour of the day. As the battle was necessarily
fought in the afternoon, because of the softness of the soil consequent on the heavy rains
of the preceding day and night, there was time gained for the arrival of Bülow's corps by four
o'clock of the afternoon of the 18th. Against that corps Napoleon had to send almost twenty
thousand of his men, and sixty-six pieces of cannon, all of which might have been employed
against Wellington's army, had the battle been fought in the forenoon. As it was, that large
force never fired a shot at the English. The other Prussian corps that reached the field toward
the close of the day, Zieten's and Pirch's, did not leave Wavre until about noon. The coming
up of the advanced guard of Zieten, but a short time before the close of the battle, enabled
Wellington to employ the fresh cavalry of Vivian and Vandeleur at another part of his line,
where they did eminent service for him at a time which is known as "the crisis" of the day.
Taking all these facts into consideration, it must be admitted that there never was a more
important rain-storm than that which happened on the 17th of June, 1815. Had it occurred twenty-four
hours later, the destinies of the world might, and most probably would, have been completely
changed; for Waterloo was one of those decisive battles which dominate the ages through their
results, belonging to the same class of combats as do Marathon, Pharsalia, Lepanto, Blenheim,
Yorktown, and Trafalgar. It was decided by water, and not by fire, though the latter was hot
enough on that fatal field to satisfy the most determined lover of courage and glory.

