23. If our Lord bestows any virtue upon us, we must make much of it, and by no means run the
risk of losing it; so it is in those things which concern our good name, and many other matters.
You, my father, must believe that we are not all of us detached, though we think we are; it
is necessary for us never to be careless on this point.  If any one detects in himself any
tenderness about his good name, and yet wishes to advance in the spiritual life, let him believe
me and throw this embarrassment behind his back, for it is a chain which no file can sever;
only the help of God, obtained by prayer and much striving on his part, can do it.  It seems
to me to be a hindrance on the road, and I am astonished at the harm it does.  I see some persons
so holy in their works, and they are so great as to fill people with wonder.  O my God, why
is their soul still on the earth?  Why has it not arrived at the summit of perfection?  What
does it mean? What keeps him back who does so much for God?  Oh, there it is!--self-respect!
and the worst of it is, that these persons will not admit that they have it, merely because
Satan now and then convinces them that they are under an obligation to observe it.

24. Well, then, let them believe me: for the love of our Lord, let them give heed to the little
ant, who speaks because it is His pleasure.  If they take not this caterpillar away, though
it does not hurt the whole tree, because some virtues remain, the worm will eat into every
one of them.  Not only is the tree not beautiful, but it also never thrives, neither does it
suffer the others near it to thrive; for the fruit of good example which it bears is not sound,
and endures but a short time.  I say it again and again, let our self-respect be ever so slight,
it will have the same result as the missing of a note on the organ when it is played,--the
whole music is out of tune.  It is a thing which hurts the soul exceedingly in every way, but
it is a pestilence in the way of prayer.

25. Are we striving after union with God? and do we wish to follow the counsels of Christ,--who
was loaded with reproaches and falsely accused,--and, at the same time, to keep our own reputation
and credit untouched?  We cannot succeed, for these things are inconsistent one with another.
Our Lord comes to the soul when we do violence to ourselves, and strive to give up our rights
in many things.  Some will say, I have nothing that I can give up, nor have I any opportunity
of doing so.  I believe that our Lord will never suffer any one who has made so good a resolution
as this to miss so great a blessing.  His Majesty will make so many arrangements for him, whereby
he may acquire this virtue,--more frequently, perhaps, than he will like.  Let him put his
hand to the work.  I speak of the little nothings and trifles which I gave up when I began--or,
at least, of some of them: the straws which I said [8] I threw into the fire; for I am not
able to do more.  All this our Lord accepted: may He be blessed for evermore!

26. One of my faults was this: I had a very imperfect knowledge of my Breviary and of my duties
in choir, simply because I was careless and given to vanities; and I knew the other novices
could have taught me.  But I never asked them, that they might not know how little I knew.
It suggested itself to me at once, that I ought to set a good example: this is very common.
Now, however, that God has opened my eyes a little, even when I know a thing, but yet am very
slightly in doubt about it, I ask the children.  I have lost neither honour nor credit by it--on
the contrary, I believe our Lord has been pleased to strengthen my memory.  My singing of the
Office was bad, and I felt it much if I had not learned the part intrusted to me,--not because
I made mistakes before our Lord, which would have been a virtue, but because I made them before
the many nuns who heard me.  I was so full of my own reputation, that I was disturbed, and
therefore did not sing what I had to sing even so well as I might have done.  Afterwards, I
ventured, when I did not know it very well, to say so.  At first, I felt it very much; but
afterwards I found pleasure in doing it.  So, when I began to be indifferent about its being
known that I could not sing well, it gave me no pain at all, and I sang much better.  This
miserable self-esteem took from me the power of doing that which I regarded as an honour, for
every one regards as honourable that which he likes.

27. By trifles such as these, which are nothing,--and I am altogether nothing myself, seeing
that this gave me pain,--by little and little, doing such actions, and by such slight performances,--they
become of worth because done for God,--His Majesty helps us on towards greater things; and
so it happened to me in the matter of humility.  When I saw that all the nuns except myself
were making great progress,--I was always myself good for nothing,--I used to fold up their
mantles when they left the choir.  I looked on myself as doing service to angels who had been
there praising God.  I did so till they--I know not how--found it out; and then I was not a
little ashamed, because my virtue was not strong enough to bear that they should know of it.
But the shame arose, not because I was humble, but because I was afraid they would laugh at
me, the matter being so trifling.

28. O Lord, what a shame for me to lay bare so much wickedness, and to number these grains
of sand, which yet I did not raise up from the ground in Thy service without mixing them with
a thousand meannesses!  The waters of Thy grace were not as yet flowing beneath them, so as
to make them ascend upwards.  O my Creator, oh, that I had anything worth recounting amid so
many evil things, when I am recounting the great mercies I received at Thy hands!  So it is,
O my Lord.  I know not how my heart could have borne it, nor how any one who shall read this
can help having me in abhorrence when he sees that mercies so great had been so ill-requited,
and that I have not been ashamed to speak of these services.  Ah! they are only mine, O my
Lord; but I am ashamed I have nothing else to say of myself; and that it is that makes me speak
of these wretched beginnings, in order that he who has begun more nobly may have hope that
our Lord, who has made much of mine, will make more of his.  May it please His Majesty to give
me this grace, that I may not remain for ever at the beginning!  Amen. [9]

1. 2 Cor. ii. 11: "Non enim ignoramus cogitationes ejus."

2. Ch. xxvii. section 4.

3. See Inner Fortress, vi. ch. iv. section 12.

4. Way of Perfection, ch. lxv. section 2; but ch. xxxvi. of the previous editions.

5. See ch. x. section 10.

6. Ch. xiii. section 3.

7. Ch. xx. section 38.

8. Ch. xxx. section 25.

9. Don Vicente de la Fuente thinks the first "Life" ended here; that which follows was written
under obedience to her confessor, F. Garcia of Toledo, and after the foundation of the monastery
of St. Joseph, Avila.

1. Some considerable time after our Lord had bestowed upon me the graces I have been describing,
and others also of a higher nature, I was one day in prayer when I found myself in a moment,
without knowing how, plunged apparently into hell.  I understood that it was our Lord's will
I should see the place which the devils kept in readiness for me, and which I had deserved
by my sins.  It was but a moment, but it seems to me impossible I should ever forget it even
if I were to live many years.

2. The entrance seemed to be by a long narrow pass, like a furnace, very low, dark, and close.
The ground seemed to be saturated with water, mere mud, exceedingly foul, sending forth pestilential
odours, and covered with loathsome vermin.  At the end was a hollow place in the wall, like
a closet, and in that I saw myself confined.  All this was even pleasant to behold in comparison
with what I felt there.  There is no exaggeration in what I am saying.

3. But as to what I then felt, I do not know where to begin, if I were to describe it; it is
utterly inexplicable.  I felt a fire in my soul.  I cannot see how it is possible to describe
it. My bodily sufferings were unendurable.  I have undergone most painful sufferings in this
life, and, as the physicians say, the greatest that can be borne, such as the contraction of
my sinews when I was paralysed, [1] without speaking of others of different kinds, yea, even
those of which I have also spoken, [2] inflicted on me by Satan; yet all these were as nothing
in comparison with what I felt then, especially when I saw that there would be no intermission,
nor any end to them.

4. These sufferings were nothing in comparison with the anguish of my soul, a sense of oppression,
of stifling, and of pain so keen, accompanied by so hopeless and cruel an infliction, that
I know not how to speak of it.  If I said that the soul is continually being torn from the
body, it would be nothing, for that implies the destruction of life by the hands of another
but here it is the soul itself that is tearing itself in pieces. I cannot describe that inward
fire or that despair, surpassing all torments and all pain.  I did not see who it was that
tormented me, but I felt myself on fire, and torn to pieces, as it seemed to me; and, I repeat
it, this inward fire and despair are the greatest torments of all.

5. Left in that pestilential place, and utterly without the power to hope for comfort, I could
neither sit nor lie down: there was no room.  I was placed as it were in a hole in the wall;
and those walls, terrible to look on of themselves, hemmed me in on every side.  I could not
breathe.  There was no light, but all was thick darkness.  I do not understand how it is; though
there was no light, yet everything that can give pain by being seen was visible.

6. Our Lord at that time would not let me see more of hell. Afterwards, I had another most
fearful vision, in which I saw the punishment of certain sins.  They were most horrible to
look at; but, because I felt none of the pain, my terror was not so great. In the former vision,
our Lord made me really feel those torments, and that anguish of spirit, just as if I had been
suffering them in the body there.  I know not how it was, but I understood distinctly that
it was a great mercy that our Lord would have me see with mine own eyes the very place from
which His compassion saved me.  I have listened to people speaking of these things, and I have
at other times dwelt on the various torments of hell, though not often, because my soul made
no progress by the way of fear; and I have read of the diverse tortures, and how the devils
tear the flesh with red-hot pincers. But all is as nothing before this; it is a wholly different
matter.  In short, the one is a reality, the other a picture; and all burning here in this
life is as nothing in comparison with the fire that is there.

7. I was so terrified by that vision,--and that terror is on me even now while I am writing,--that,
though it took place nearly six years ago, [3] the natural warmth of my body is chilled by
fear even now when I think of it.  And so, amid all the pain and suffering which I may have
had to bear, I remember no time in which I do not think that all we have to suffer in this
world is as nothing.  It seems to me that we complain without reason. I repeat it, this vision
was one of the grandest mercies of our Lord.  It has been to me of the greatest service, because
it has destroyed my fear of trouble and of the contradiction of the world, and because it has
made me strong enough to bear up against them, and to give thanks to our Lord, who has been
my Deliverer, as it now seems to me, from such fearful and everlasting pains.

8. Ever since that time, as I was saying, everything seems endurable in comparison with one
instant of suffering such as those I had then to bear in hell.  I am filled with fear when
I see that, after frequently reading books which describe in some manner the pains of hell,
I was not afraid of them, nor made any account of them.  Where was I?  How could I possibly
take any pleasure in those things which led me directly to so dreadful a place?  Blessed for
ever be Thou, O my God! and, oh, how manifest is it that Thou didst love me much more than
I did love Thee! How often, O Lord, didst Thou save me from that fearful prison! and how I
used to get back to it contrary to Thy will.

9. It was that vision that filled me with the very great distress which I feel at the sight
of so many lost souls,--especially of the Lutherans,--for they were once members of the Church
by baptism,--and also gave me the most vehement desires for the salvation of souls; for certainly
I believe that, to save even one from those overwhelming torments, I would most willingly endure
many deaths.  If here on earth we see one whom we specially love in great trouble or pain,
our very nature seems to bid us compassionate him; and if those pains be great, we are troubled
ourselves.  What, then, must it be to see a soul in danger of pain, the most grievous of all
pains, for ever? Who can endure it?  It is a thought no heart can bear without great anguish.
Here we know that pain ends with life at last, and that there are limits to it; yet the sight
of it moves our compassion so greatly.  That other pain has no ending; and I know not how we
can be calm, when we see Satan carry so many souls daily away.

10. This also makes me wish that, in a matter which concerns us so much, we did not rest satisfied
with doing less than we can do on our part,--that we left nothing undone.  May our Lord vouchsafe
to give us His grace for that end!  When I consider that, notwithstanding my very great wickedness,
I took some pains to please God, and abstained from certain things which I know the world makes
light of,--that, in short, I suffered grievous infirmities, and with great patience, which
our Lord gave me; that I was not inclined to murmur or to speak ill of anybody; that I could
not--I believe so--wish harm to any one; that I was not, to the best of my recollection, either
avaricious or envious, so as to be grievously offensive in the sight of God; and that I was
free from many other faults,--for, though so wicked, I had lived constantly in the fear of
God,--I had to look at the very place which the devils kept ready for me.  It is true that,
considering my faults, I had deserved a still heavier chastisement; but for all that, I repeat
it, the torment was fearful, and we run a great risk whenever we please ourselves. No soul
should take either rest or pleasure that is liable to fall every moment into mortal sin.  Let
us, then, for the love of God, avoid all occasions of sin, and our Lord will help us, as He
has helped me.  May it please His Majesty never to let me out of His hands, lest I should turn
back and fall, now that I have seen the place where I must dwell if I do.  I entreat our Lord,
for His Majesty's sake, never to permit it.  Amen.

11. When I had seen this vision, and had learned other great and hidden things which our Lord,
of His goodness, was pleased to show me,--namely, the joy of the blessed and the torment of
the wicked,--I longed for the way and the means of doing penance for the great evil I had done,
and of meriting in some degree, so that I might gain so great a good; and therefore I wished
to avoid all society, and to withdraw myself utterly from the world. I was in spirit restless,
yet my restlessness was not harassing, but rather pleasant.  I saw clearly that it was the
work of God, and that His Majesty had furnished my soul with fervour, so that I might be able
to digest other and stronger food than I had been accustomed to eat.  I tried to think what
I could do for God, and thought that the first thing was to follow my vocation to a religious
life, which His Majesty had given me, by keeping my rule in the greatest perfection possible.

12. Though in that house in which I then lived there were many servants of God, and God was
greatly served therein, yet, because it was very poor, the nuns left it very often and went
to other places, where, however, we could serve God in all honour and observances of religion.
The rule also was kept, not in its original exactness, but according to the custom of the whole
Order, authorised by the Bull of Mitigation.  There were other inconveniences also: we had
too many comforts, as it seemed to me; for the house was large and pleasant.  But this inconvenience
of going out, though it was I that took most advantage of it, was a very grievous one for me;
for many persons, to whom my superiors could not say no, were glad to have me with them. My
superiors, thus importuned, commanded me to visit these persons; and thus it was so arranged
that I could not be long together in the monastery.  Satan, too, must have had a share in this,
in order that I might not be in the house, where I was of great service to those of my sisters
to whom I continually communicated the instructions which I received from my confessors.

13. It occurred once to a person with whom I was speaking to say to me and the others that
it was possible to find means for the foundation of a monastery, if we were prepared to become
nuns like those of the Barefooted Orders. [4]  I, having this desire, began to discuss the
matter with that widowed lady who was my companion,--I have spoken of her before, [5]--and
she had the same wish that I had.  She began to consider how to provide a revenue for the home.
I see now that this was not the way,--only the wish we had to do so made us think it was; but
I, on the other hand, seeing that I took the greatest delight in the house in which I was then
living, because it was very pleasant to me, and, in my own cell, most convenient for my purpose,
still held back.  Nevertheless, we agreed to commit the matter with all earnestness to God.

14. One day, after Communion, our Lord commanded me to labour with all my might for this end.
He made me great promises,--that the monastery would be certainly built; that He would take
great delight therein; that it should be called St. Joseph's; that St. Joseph would keep guard
at one door, and our Lady at the other; that Christ would be in the midst of us; that the monastery
would be a star shining in great splendour; that, though the religious Orders were then relaxed,
I was not to suppose that He was scantily served in them,--for what would become of the world,
if there were no religious in it?--I was to tell my confessor what He commanded me, and that
He asked him not to oppose nor thwart me in the matter.

15. So efficacious was the vision, and such was the nature of the words our Lord spoke to me,
that I could not possibly doubt that they came from Him.  I suffered most keenly, because I
saw in part the great anxieties and troubles that the work would cost me, and I was also very
happy in the house I was in then; and though I used to speak of this matter in past times,
yet it was not with resolution nor with any confidence that the thing could ever be done. 
I saw that I was now in a great strait; and when I saw that I was entering on a work of great
anxiety, I hesitated; but our Lord spoke of it so often to me, and set before me so many reasons
and motives, which I saw could not be gainsaid,--I saw, too, that such was His will; so I did
not dare do otherwise than put the whole matter before my confessor, and give him an account
in writing of all that took place.

16. My confessor did not venture definitely to bid me abandon my purpose; but he saw that naturally
there was no way of carrying it out; because my friend, who was to do it, had very little or
no means available for that end.  He told me to lay the matter before my superior, [6] and
do what he might bid me do.  I never spoke of my visions to my superior, but that lady who
desired to found the monastery communicated with him.  The Provincial was very much pleased,
for he loves the whole Order, gave her every help that was necessary, and promised to acknowledge
the house. Then there was a discussion about the revenues of the monastery, and for many reasons
we never would allow more than thirteen sisters together.  Before we began our arrangements,
we wrote to the holy friar, Peter of Alcantara, telling him all that was taking place; and
he advised us not to abandon our work, and gave us his sanction on all points.

17. As soon as the affair began to be known here, there fell upon us a violent persecution,
which cannot be very easily described--sharp sayings and keen jests.  People said it was folly
in me, who was so well off in my monastery; as to my friend, the persecution was so continuous,
that it wearied her. I did not know what to do, and I thought that people were partly in the
right.  When I was thus heavily afflicted, I commended myself to God, and His Majesty began
to console and encourage me. He told me that I could then see what the Saints had to go through
who founded the religious Orders: that I had much heavier persecutions to endure than I could
imagine, but I was not to mind them.  He told me also what I was to say to my friend; and what
surprised me most was, that we were consoled at once as to the past, and resolved to withstand
everybody courageously. And so it came to pass; for among people of prayer, and indeed in the
whole neighbourhood, there was hardly one who was not against us, and who did not think our
work the greatest folly.

18. There was so much talking and confusion in the very monastery wherein I was, that the Provincial
began to think it hard for him to set himself against everybody; so he changed his mind, and
would not acknowledge the new house.  He said that the revenue was not certain, and too little,
while the opposition was great. On the whole, it seemed that he was right; he gave it up at
last, and would have nothing to do with it.  It was a very great pain to us,--for we seemed
now to have received the first blow,--and in particular to me, to find the Provincial against
us; for when he approved of the plan, I considered myself blameless before all.  They would
not give absolution to my friend, if she did not abandon the project; for they said she was
bound to remove the scandal.

