PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

July 11, 1891.

VOCES POPULI.

MORE POT-POURRI FROM THE PARK.

    SCENE--The Park, near Cumberland Gate, on almost any fine
    afternoon. Behind the rails separating the turf from the
    paths, Orators, Preachers, and Reciters are holding forth,
    for the delectation of small groups, who are mostly engaged in
    discussing some totally different subject. A set debate, with
    a time-limit, and a purely ornamental Chairman, is in progress
    between a Parnellite and an Anti-Parnellite. The reader will
    kindly imagine himself to be passing slowly along the line.

A Youthful Socialist (haranguing the usual crowd of well-to-do loungers, and working himself
up to the requisite white-heat of factitious fury). And what are these Capitalists? I'll tell
yer. Jest a lot o' greedy gobblers and profit-mongering sharks, as eat up the smaller fry.
And what are you? Why, you're the small fish as eat mud--and let yourselves be gobbled! (The
crowd accept this definition of themselves with perfect gaiety and good-humour.) Some will
tell yer that these lazy, idle loafers, work as hard as what we do ourselves. (Derisive laughter
at this ridiculous idea.) Mind yer, I'm not saying they don't. Honly, the 'arder they work,
the worse it is for us; because the more they work the more they rob! That's what they send
their sons to Oxford and to Cambridge--as was built and endowed for the benefit of us, the
labourin' classes--for. They send 'em there to learn 'ow to rob!

    [Here a discussion breaks out between a Sceptic and a
    Spiritualist, who, with half-a-dozen interested auditors,
    have been putting their heads together in a corner.

The Sceptic. No,--but keep to the point,--you're shufflin' the question. I want to argue this
out on logical grounds. I know as well as you do that, if only I 'ave 'armony and a round table
in my family, I can make that table dance the poker--but what I'm puttin' to you is (triumphantly),
'ow does that prove to me as I'm in communication with the Bogie Man? That's what you've got
to answer.

The Y.S.. We Soshalists 'ate the Tories as we 'ate sin. Why, young polertician as I ham, &c., &c.

The Spiritualist (an elderly and earnest person). All I can reply to you is, we Spiritualists
do not think--we know that these phenomena appear--yes, as surely as I know I am 'olding this
stick in my 'and.

The Sceptic (pityingly). There you go again, yer see--that stick ain't the point. I can see
the stick. A stick ain't a phenomena--you're confusin' two different things. Now I'm goin'
to offer you a fair challenge. You perdooce me a Spirit--not in a back room, with the lights
out, but 'ere, in broad daylight, in this Park--you get that Spirit to naturalise itself, or
whatever you call it, and I'll believe in 'im. Come, now!

A Bystander. Ah, that's the way to corner 'is sort. 'E knows 'e carn't do it!

The Spiritualist (with a smile of sad superiority). Ridicule ain't argyment. [The discussion
continues.

The Young Socialist. Don't tork to me of Patriotism! What have the likes of you and me got
to be patriotic about? I'm a Universalist, I am, and so long as a man rallies round our glorious
Red Flag (here he waves a dingy scarlet rag on a stick), it's all one to me whether his own
colour is black, yeller, green, brown, or white!

    [Applause.

Reciter Number One (in the midst of a thrilling prose narrative about a certain "'ARRY," who
has apparently got into legal difficulties for having thrown a cocoa-nut stick at a retired
Colonel). Well, I went into the Court 'ouse, and there, sure enough, was my pore mate 'ARRY
in the dock, and there was hold Ginger-whiskers (laughter) a setting on the bench along with
the hother beaks, lookin' biliouser, and pepperier, and more happerplecticker nor ever! "Prison-ar,"
he sez, addressin' 'ARRY (imitation of the voice and manner of a retired Colonel), "Prison-ar,
'ave you--har--hanythink to say in your beyarf--har?" And then, hall of a sudden, I sor a flash
come into my dear 'ole comride 'ARRY's heyes, as he strightened 'imself in the dock, and gave
the milingtery sloot, and then, in a voice as sounded as true and sweet and clear as a bell,
he sez--

A Dingy and Unprepossessing Preacher (unctuously). Well beloved friends, as I was telling yer,
I went 'ome to the 'ouse of that pious Methodist lady, and she told me as 'ow she 'ad two dear
unconverted sons, an' I knelt down (&c., &c.), an' after that we 'ad our tea, and then I preached
a sermon--ah, I well remember I took my tex from (&c. &c.)--an' then she gave me supper (more
unctuously still), as nice a bit o' cold beef and 'ome-brewed ale as ever I wish to taste,
and I slep' that blessed night in a warm comfortable bed--and this (drawing the inevitable
moral) this brings me round to what I started on, inasmuch as it proves (with a forbidding
smile) as 'ow yer may sometimes hentertain a angel unawares!

Reciter Number Two (giving his own private version of "The Ticket of Leave Man.") Fourpence
'ap'ny, Gentlemen, is not a very 'arty nor corjial recognition of my talent; 'owever, I will
now perceed with the Drarmer. The Curtain rises upon the Second Hact. Hover three years 'ave
elapsed since Robert Brierley--(&c.) We are in May Hedwardses lodgings. She is torkin to 'er
goldfinch. If you boys don't give over larkin' and stand back, you'll get a cuff on some of
your 'eds. "Goldie," she sez, "I've 'ad a letter from 'Im this morning!" And the bird puts
his little 'ed a one side, and a'most seems as if he compre'ended 'er meanin'! Mrs. Willoughby
is 'eard outside sayin', "May I come in?" I will now hendeavour to give you a imitation of
Mrs. Willoughby.

    [He cocks his hat rather more on one side, to indicate
    feminine garrulity, and continues.

Anti-Parnellite Irishman (warmly). Is it kape to the point? Oi till that white-feeced an' black-hearrted
loiar, TIM MURPHY, that if he interrups me wance more whoile o'im in possession o' the chair,
oi'll step down an' call 'm to orrder by landin' 'um a clump on the conk!

Reciter Number Three (who is working his way through a bloodcurdling poem, with a hat on the
ground before him):--

  And on came them maddened 'orses, with their foiery, smokin' breath;
  As were bearin' the woman I lurved to a crule and 'orrible death!
      [Pathetically.
  'Ow could I save my darlin' from layin' a mangled 'eap
  On the grorss below where the buttercups blow, along of the innercent sheep!
  (Wildly.) I felt my brine was reeling--I'adn't a minnit to lose!
      [He strains forward, in agony.
  With a stifled prayer, and a gasp for air, I--

    [Here he suddenly becomes aware of an overlooked penny
    on the grass, and replaces it carefully in the hat before
    proceeding.

First Bystander (discussing Physical Courage with a friend). No, I never 'ad no pluck. I don't
see the use of it myself--on'y gits you into rows'. (Candidly.) I'm a blanky coward, I am.

His Friend (admiringly). Give us yer 'and. Yer can't be a blankier coward than me!

The A.P. (with just pride). Oi've been wan o' the biggest libertines in this or anny other
city in me toime--there's no blagardhism oi'd have put beyant me--but oi till ye this. If PARNELL
was to come up to me here, now, and ask me to sheek um by the hand, oi'd say, "Shtand back,
ye d----d scoundthrel!" Ah, oi would that!

Belated Orator (perorating to an embarrassed stranger on a seat before him, under a muddled
impression that he is addressing a spell-bound multitude). I tell yer--yes, hevery man, and
hevery woman among yer--(Here he bends forward, and touches his hearer's right and left elbow
impressively) don't you go away under the impression I'm talking of what I don't understan'!
(The Stranger shifts his leg and looks another way.) I speak sense, don't I? You never 'eard
nothin' like this afore, any of yer, 'ave yer? That's because I read between the lines! (Waving
his arm wildly.) An' I want heach man and boy of you to 'member my words, and hact upon them
when the time comes!

    [Here he staggers off with a proud and exalted air, to the
    immense relief of his hearer.

A Professional Pietist (with a modest working capital of one hymn and a nasal drone). "My richest
gynes" ... (To Charitable Passer. A copper, Sir? bless your kind 'art!) "I cayount" ... (Examining
it. A bloomin' French 'ap'ny!) ... "but loss; And pour contemp'" ... (Call yerself a Christian
gen'lman, yer--&c.) ... "on a--a--ll my proide!"

    (Here the Reader will probably have had enough of it.)

       *       *       *       *       *

A REAL TREAT.--Advice to Covent-gardeners.--If Carmen is to be done again this season with
the same cast as it had on Saturday last, no one who cares for an exceptionally first-rate
performance should miss this opera-tunity. There is no better representative of Carmen than
Mlle. ZELIE DE LUSSAN,--how can there be, since the Spanish Gipsy heroine of the plot is herself
a Loose 'un? Madame MELBA was charming as Mickie Ella, the Irish girl in Spain. M. LASSALLE
appeared as Escamillo. the bull-fighter, in a novel, and doubtless a correct, costume, and
his great Toréador song was vociferously encored. Then, finally, JEAN DE RESKÉ, who made of
the usually idiotic Don José a fine acting as well as a fine singing part. It drew a big house,
and would have been a pretty dish to set before an Emperor on Wednesday, if, on that occasion,
the Opera itself were the only consideration.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIRE KING'S ABDICATION.

  "My palate is parched with Pierian thirst,
    Away to Parnassus I'm beckoned."
  I sing of the glories of Fire King the First!
    (Who's fit to be Fire King the Second?)

  Captain EYRE MASSEY SHAW is a "Sovereign" indeed,
    Abdicating? Alas! that too true is;
  For he's a Fire King of a different breed
    From the Monarch described by MONK LEWIS.

  No mere King of Flames, fiery-faced à la SKELT,
    Inhabiting regions most torrid,
  With a breath that is warranted copper to melt,
    And eyes indescribably horrid.

  He hath not a blazing Bardolphian nose,
    He is not flamboyant or furious;
  His Crown's a brass helmet, his Sceptre a hose;
    True Fire King,--all others are spurious.

  For he rules the flames; he has done so for long;
    And now that he talks of retiring,
  Men mourn for the fire-queller cautious and strong,
    Whose reign they've so long been admiring.

  Clear-headed, cool Captain, great chief M.F.B.,
    All London is sorry to lose you;
  As kindly as kingly, from prejudice free;
    No danger could daunt or confuse you.

  As doffing your helmet, and dropping your hose,
    You bid us farewell, we all own you
  As one of Fiend Fire's most redoubtable foes;
    As that thirty years we have known you.

  Our Big Boards might job, and our Big Wigs might jaw,
    But, spite of their tricks and their cackle,
  One Chief we could trust; we were sure that our SHAW
    His duty would manfully tackle.

  So farewell, great Fire King! Your crown you lay by;
    E'en you cannot lay by your credit.
  Ignipotent Knight? Well, you ought to stand high
    In the next Honour-List! Punch has said it!

       *       *       *       *       *

OFF TO MASHERLAND.

(BY OUR OWN GRANDOLPH.)

(SECOND LETTER.--B.)

THE MAGNUM OPUS.

À propos of this heading, what a treasure a Magnum Opal would be. This remark is only "by the
way." My motto is Business First, Play (on words) afterwards. So to work.

I really think I shall take to Guide-book writing. Grandolph's Guides would be immensely popular.
I'm sure I can do it--for upon my word I can do a'most anything if I only buckle to. By the
way, 'Buckle' suggests history. Can go in for "making history" when I've done this work. WILLIAMS--not
MONTAGU the Magistrate--(good title this for something)--but my friend the Companionable Captain
---- is at work; when he has done, he reads out a few descriptive paragraphs for my approbation,
or the contrary. When I nod it means that I like it; when I don't nod, he has to wait till
I do. I generally begin nodding about the middle of the first paragraph.

"Well," says he, the other day, quite suddenly, "I'm glad you like it all so much."

"Like all what?" I exclaimed, blowing the cigar-ash off my pyjamas, and wondering to myself
how I could have been so absorbed in his reading aloud as to have let my half-smoked havannah
tumble on to the floor.

"Why, all I've been reading to you for the last hour and a half," returned the Captain, apparently
somewhat annoyed; peppery chap, the Captain,--'Curried' Captain when on board Sir DONALD's
boat,--but to resume. Says the Curried Captain, still a bit annoyed, "You passed all the paragraphs,
one after the other, and whenever I stopped to ask you how you liked it, you nodded."

I didn't like to hurt the gallant scribe's feelings, but the fact is that he, as a reader,
has a very soothing-syrupy tone and, I fancy, that in less than a quarter of an hour, judging
by the moiety of my cigar. I must have fallen fast asleep.

"That's posted, is it?" I ask, evading further explanation. "It is," he answers. "But I've
got another lot--"

"Good!" I interrupt him, rather abruptly I own, but, from experience I say it, if I don't take
myself when in the humour--'on the hop,' so to speak, as they said of the scarabæus in Kent--(trust
me for natural history and plenty of it)--I'm no use at all. Now at this moment I am wide awake,
a giant refreshed; so I light another fragrant weed, and call for another cool drink, as I
haven't the smallest idea what became of the one I ordered when the Gallant Graphist commenced
reading; I rather suspect he 'put it to his lips when so dispoged,' and that, in this instance
also, he mistook my nod for silent but emphatic encouragement.

"Now," I say to the Amiable Amanuensis and Adaptable Author, "you read your stuff aloud with
emphasis and discretion, and I'll chuck in the ornamental part. Excuse me, that's my drink,"
I say, with an emphasis on the possessive pronoun, for the Soldierly Scribe, in a moment of
absorption, was about to apply that process to my liquor. He apologises handsomely, and commences
his recital. In the absence of a gong,--one ought never to travel without a gong,--I whack
the tea-tray with a paper-knife. "All in to begin!"

"The mail train," &c., &c. I make my notes, and remark that MURRAY and BRADSHAW lost a great
chance in not having long ago secured the services of the Corresponding Captain. "The railroad
passes through mountain scenery of exceptional," &c., &c. BRADSHAW and MURRAY, not to mention
BAEDEKER and BLACK, absolutely not in it with the Wandering Warrior. "About thirty miles from
Cape Town"--

A SIMPLE SUGGESTION.

I stop him at this point. "Couldn't we have a song here?"

"Why?" asks the Simple Soldier, glaring at me, and pulling his moustache.

"Just to lighten it up a bit," I explain. "You see 'About thirty miles' and so forth, suggests
the old song of Within a Mile of Edinboro' Town."

"Don't see it," says the Virtuous Veteran, stolidly.

"Well, I'll make a note of it," and I add pleasantly, as is my way, "if it's a song, I'll make
several notes of it."

"Um!" growls the Severe Soldier, and once again I defeat him in an attempt at surprising my
outpost, i.e., my tumbler of cool drink. He apologises gruffly but politely, and then continues
his reading.

ON WE GOES AGAIN.

He continues to read about "distances," "so many feet above sea-levels," "engineering skill,"
&c., &c., which I observe to him will all make capital padding for a guide-book, when I am
suddenly struck by the sound of the word I had just used, viz., 'padding.'

PADDINGTON.

"By Jove!" I exclaim.

"What is it?" asks the Confused Captain, looking up from his MS.

"'Padding,'" I reply--"Only add a 'ton' to it, and that will give it just the weight I require.
Don't you see?" I ask him, impetuously. But he merely shakes his head, and lugs at his moustache.
I explain the idea, as if it were a charade. I say, "The whole notion is 'padding--ton.' See?"

The Ruminating Reader thinks it won't do. "Yes it will," I urge--"it will lighten it up. Who
wants statistics without anecdote? Now for an anecdote; and I knock one off, sur le champ,
about the engine-driver, the stoker, and several other persons, all on the look-out for promotion,
informing me of their being Paddington men of considerable political influence at home. The
Cautious Captain accepts the anecdote, interpolates it, and after I have called for and imbibed
another tumbler of 'my own partik,' and lighted another cigar, the Conscientious Captain resumes
his entertainment."

NO PIANO.

He reads on. Another drink, just to rivet my attention. Will he take something? No? Then I
will. His health, and song--I mean 'treatise,' or whatever he calls it--say 'lecture.' Wish
we'd had a piano. Never will travel without one again. Mem.--Gong and piano. I don't pretend
to be a thorough musician, but as a one-fingered player I'd give Sir CHARLES HALLÉ odds and
beat him. Now then--let's see where were we. Another tumbler iced. Good. Allez! Captain, go ahead!

Somehow or another, after this--that is, I can only time it by the fact of my having called
for a fourth or fifth glass of iced drink, or it may have been my half-dozenth, for time does
fly so,--the Captain having, I suspect, drank the greater part of the previous one whenever
I didn't happen to be looking that way--I begin to think I must have once more given my assent
by nodding to a lot of stuff of which I could not nave heard more than three pages, as, when
I arouse myself from my reverie, the tumbler is empty, the Captain has gone out, and so has
my cigar.

AWAY! AWAY!

"Action is the word!" said I, suddenly jumping up; and, having seized a spade, and provided
myself with a large sack, which I carried across my shoulders, I set off for the diamond-fields.
Unrecognised by a soul, I went to work on my own account; and the brilliant things I saw--far
more brilliant than even the witticisms of WOLFFY, or the sarcasms of ARTHUR B! Into my sack
go thousands of diamonds! The sack is full! Aladdin and the Lamp not in it with me! "Hallo!"
shouts a voice, gruffly. I could see no one. "Vox et præterea nil," as we used to say at Eton.
Suddenly I felt myself collared. I made a gallant attempt at resistance. A spade is a spade
I know, but what is a spade and one against twenty with pistols and daggers, headed by the
redoubtable Filliblusterer THOMAS TIDDLER himself? "Strip him!" said T.T., shortly.

Will you believe that the only way in which in this country they arrive at implicitly believing
every word you utter, is by denuding you of all your clothes, so as to get at the naked truth,
holding you up by the heels for the purpose of shaking the diamonds out of you, in case any
are concealed in your hair, mouth, ears, eyes and so forth.

"He has diamonds on the brain!" I hear some ruffian exclaim, and in another second--

       *       *       *       *       *

Well--what happened I cannot tell you: I must have fainted. When I came to myself I was lying
by the chair in which I had been previously sitting when listening to the Captain's reading,
and bending over me with a glass of water in his hand, was the faithful and clever Doctor whose
companionship on this voyage of discovery I am daily and hourly learning to appreciate at its
proper value. I fancy the ship's crew were round about me, with the Engineer and the Chaplain.
I feel inclined to say, "HARDY, HARDY, kiss me, HARDY!" and then something about "Tell them
at home"--but the words stick in my throat, as they did in Macbeth's throat (only they were
other words) when he was on his throat-sticking expedition. (Little Shakspearian reference
thrown in here, and no extra charge.)

"How many of these has he had?" I hear the Doctor say, and I perceived that he was holding
up an empty tumbler. I should like to explain that, as we were engaged in composition, there
had been 'composing draughts.' I fancy I caught the tone of the Clever Captain's voice in reply,
but the next minute I felt myself being lifted up and carried off. I wished to tell them of
my strange adventure, and how I had barely escaped with my life, but somehow drowsiness overcame
me, and I must have fallen asleep.

BUSINESS AS BEFORE.

To-day I sit down to write out this strange story. Once I asked the Cautious Captain and the
Doubting Doctor "if they had seen anything of my pickaxe and the sack of diamonds." But they
only smiled at one another, elevated their eyebrows, then winked, and laughed.

What is their little game?

No matter. I will lie low. My motto is "Diamonds are trumps." I'm not here as Aladdin for nothing.
"Aha!" as the old melodramatic villain used to say, "a time will come! No mattar!"

RATHER CURRIE-OUS!

I don't know whether it is owing to my voyage in a DONALD CURRIE steamer--'twas the first opportunity
that ever I had of tasting a DONALD CURRIE, and excellent it is, as of course, was all our
"board" on board--(send this joke to WOLFFY--he'll work it up and make a real impromptu sparkler
of it--and I don't grudge him the kudos of it, not one little bit)--or to the change of air,
but I am bound to say openly that I do think the G.O.M. has been right about most things, especially
about Majuba (who was Pa JUBA? Send this to DRUMMY WOLFFY), and--well, I shall have more to
say on this subject. If this meets the eye of any friendly person, will he kindly remember
me to my Uncle? Thanks. That's the ticket. More anon.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT ON THE HEMPERER'S WISIT TO THE CITY.

The pore owerworked Committee has gone and got thereselves into a nice mess, and all by their
kindness in wanting to let as many people as possibel see the grate show on Friday. They has
acshally bin and ordered a grate bilding with rows of seats, out in Gildhall Yard, enuff to
hold about a thousand Ladies and Gentlemen, all in their best close, with capital views of
ewerybody and ewerythink, and now they are told that it won't be posserbel not to give em nothing
to heat or to drink, tho' they must set there quite quiet for at least three hours! I wunder
what they will all think of Copperashun Horspitality after that!

I'm told as one werry respectable but ancient Deputy acshally surgested, that after the Hemperer
and Hempress and their sweet had all gone home, all the whole thousand starving wisitors should
be turned into Gildhall and allowed to eat and drink all the fragments as was left. Yes, Mr.
Deputy, all wery kind and thortful of you as regards the harf-starved wisitors, but how about
us Waiters? You, with all your experience, ewidentally don't know the wally of what such eminent
Swells as Hemperers and Hempresses leaves on their plates, and the skrambel for 'em drectly
as they leaves. Why, I have acshally seen with my own estonished eyes, a lady, after enquiring
of me which chair a sutten elustreous person had set in, stoop down and kiss its harm, wich
was nex to kissin his hand, and then give harf-a-crown for harf a happel as was left on the
plate! Ah, that's what I calls true loyalty, and werry much it is admired by all of us.

I hunderstands as the Government, wanting to estonish the Hemperer, has lent the City a reglar
army of troops to stand on both sides of the Streets from Buckinham Pallis all the way to Gildhall.
And in case the estonishing site shood make him feel just a leetle dazed, the jolly old Copperashun
has bin and gone and hired no less than three Millingterry Bands of Music to play to him, and
cheer him up.

There was a talk of engaging all the many German Bands, as makes our streets so musical, to
give the Hemperer a serrynade at Lunch; but Mr. WEST HILL, of the Gildhall Skool of Music,
thort it might be too much for His Madjesty's feelinx, so the highdear was given up. I werily
bleeves that of all the many anxious buzzoms as is a beating with suppressed emotion for next
Friday, the carmest and the all serenest of the lot is that of ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A BOOK OF BURLESQUE."

  A volume most welcome on table or desk
  Is DAVENPORT ADAMS's Book of Burlesque.
  He deals with the subject from earliest days,
  To modern examples and Gaiety plays.
  We've extracts from PLANCHÉ and GILBERT to hand,
  With puns ta'en from BYRON and jokes from BURNAND.
  There's fun at your asking wherever you look,
  And not a dull page you'll declare in the book.
  You'll find it delightful, for no one Macadams
  The road of the reader like DAVENPORT ADAMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIBERTY AND LICENCE.--It is said that The Maske of Flowers would never have drawn gold on Monday
last to the coffers of that excellent charity, the Convalescent Home at Westgate-on-Sea had
not one of the Prominent Performers consented to become the responsible and actual Manager
of the "Theatre Royal, Inner Temple." By the terms of his licence he was bound, amongst other
things, to see that no smoking was permitted in the auditorium, no exhibition of wild beasts
was allowed on the premises, and no hanging took place from the flies. It is satisfactory to
learn (that, in spite of many Benchers being present) none of these wholesome regulations were
infringed. It is true that the Music of the Maske was duly executed, but then this painful
operation was conducted (by Mr. PRENDERGAST) from the floor of the building, and not from its
roof. Thus the orders of the LORD CHAMBERLAIN were strictly observed by a Barrister, who can
now claim to have been Manager of a genuine Temple of the Drama.

       *       *       *       *       *

A REMINDER.--Mr. EDMUND B.V. CHRISTIAN, in Baily's Magazine, quoted by the P.M.G. last Thursday,
complains "that cricket, the most popular of games, fills so small a space in literature."
Does he forget that CHARLES DICKENS devoted one entire Christmas Book to The Cricket on the Hearth?

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

NO. I.--TO SOCIAL AMBITION.

DEAR SIR, OR MADAM,

I trust you will observe and appreciate the discreet ambiguity of style with which I have chosen
to address you. I may assure you at once that I have done this not without considerable thought.
For, though I have often watched you in the exercise of your energies, I have never yet been
able to satisfy myself as to whether I ought to class you amongst our rougher sex, or include
you in the ranks of those who wear high heels, and very low dresses. Sometimes you fix your
place of business in a breast adequately covered by a stiff and shining shirt-front and a well-cut
waistcoat. Sometimes you inhabit the expansive bosom of a matron. Nor do you confine yourself
to one class alone out of the many that go to the composition of our social life. You have
impelled grocers to ludicrous pitches of absurdity; you have driven the wife of a working-man
to distraction because her neighbour's front room possesses a more expensive carpet, of a sprucer
pattern than her own. Clerks have suffered acutely from your stings, and actresses have spent
many a sleepless night under your malign influence. You have tortured Dukes on the peaks of
gracious splendour where they sit enthroned as far above common mortals as they ought to be
above the common feeling of envy; and you have caused even Queens to writhe because there happened
to be a few stray Empresses in the world.

On the whole, then, I think I do wisely in leaving the question of your sex a doubtful one.
You would wish it so left yourself, otherwise so powerful a personality as yours would, I am
certain, have revealed itself with greater clearness to an honest investigator, such as I humbly
trust I have proved myself. But, be that as it may, I can assert with perfect confidence that
you are no respecter of persons, though it must, in fairness, be added, that one of your chief
functions seems to be to implant an exaggerated respect and admiration of others in the minds
of your victims. In saying this I praise your impartiality, while I hint a dislike of your
ordinary methods. Not that I have any hope of causing you to desist. For to desist would be
to cease to exist, and I cannot fairly expect you to commit suicide, however much I may desire
it. Moreover, your subjects--for, to be candid, you are a despot--seem to like you. You minister
so craftily to their self-esteem, you flatter their vanity with an adroitness so remarkable,
that, after a few feeble struggles, they resign themselves, body and soul, to your thrall.
Even then you proceed warily. Your first labour is to collect, with patient care, all the little
elements of dissatisfaction that are latent in every nature, and to blend them with the petty
disappointments to which even the best of us are liable. The material thus obtained you temper
with intentions that seem to be good, and eventually you forge out of it a weapon of marvellous
point and sharpness, with which you mercilessly goad your victims along the path that leads
to ridicule and disaster.

Let me take an instance which I am sure you will remember. When I first met little DABCHICK,
I thought I had never seen a happier mortal. He was clever, good-natured, and sprightly. He
sold tea somewhere in Mincing Lane, and on the proceeds of his sales he managed to support
a wife and two pleasant children in reasonable comfort at Balham. Mrs. DABCHICK could not be
accused by her best friends of over-refinement, but everybody agreed that she was just the
homely, comfortable, housewifely person who would always make DABCHICK happy, and be a good
and careful mother to his children. Often in the old days when I came down to Balham and took
pot-luck with DABCHICK, while Mrs. DABCHICK beamed serenity and middle-class satisfaction upon
me from the other end of the table, and the juvenile JOHNNY DABCHICK recited in a piping treble
one of Mr. GEORGE R. SIMS's most moving pieces for our entertainment, often, I say, have I
envied the simple happiness of that family, and gone back to my bachelor chambers with an increased
sense of dissatisfaction. Why, I thought to myself, had fate denied to me the peaceful domesticity
of the DABCHICKS? I was as good a man as DABCHICK, probably, if the truth were known, a better
than he. Yet there he was with a good wife, an agreeable family, and a comfortable income to
compensate him for his extravagance with the letter h, while I had to toil and moil in solitary
gloom.

