Mrs. All. There never was much going on. I should rather have said it was Marlborough House
being shut up that made everything so dull from the first.

Mrs. Ard. Ah, that does make such a difference, doesn't it? (She feels she must make an effort
to recover lost ground.) I fully expected to be at Homburg this year.

Mrs. All. Then you would have met Lady NEURALINE MENTHOL She was ordered there, I happen to know.

Mrs. Ard. Really, you don't say so? Lady NEURALINE! Well, that's the first I've heard of it.
(It is also the first time she has heard of HER, but she trusts to be spared so humiliating
an admission.)

Mrs. All. It's a fact, I can assure you. You know her, perhaps?

Mrs. Ard. (who would dearly like to say she does, if she only dared). Well, I can hardly say
I exactly know her. I know of her. I've met her about, and so on. (She tells herself this is
quite as likely to be true as not.)

Mrs. All. (who, of course, does not know Lady NEURALINE either). Ah, she is a most delightful
person--requires knowing, don't you know.

Mrs. Ard. So many in her position do, don't they? (So far as she is concerned--they ALL do.)
You'd think it was haughtiness--but it's really only manner.

Mrs. All. (feeling that she can go ahead with safety now). I have never found anything of that
sort in Lady NEURALINE myself (which is perfectly true). She's rather odd and flighty, but
quite a dear. By the way, how sad it is about those poor dear CHUTNEYS--the Countess, don't
you know!

Mrs. Ard. Ah (as if she knew all the rest of the family), I don't know her at all.

Mrs. All. Such a sweet woman--but the trouble she's had with her eldest boy, Lord MANGO! He
married quite beneath him, you know, some girl from the provinces--not a county-family girl even.

Mrs. Ard. (shocked). Dear, dear! not a county family!

Mrs. All. No; somebody quite common--I forget the name, but it was either GHERKIN or ONION,
or something of that sort. I was told they had been in Chili a good while. Poor MANGO never
had much taste, or he would never have got mixed up with such a set. Anyway, he's got himself
into a terrible pickle. I hear Capsicums is actually to be sold to pay his debts.

Mrs. Ard. You don't say so! Capsicums! Gracious!

Mrs. All. Yes, isn't it a pity! Such a lovely old place as it was, too--the most comfortable
house to stay at in all England; so beautifully warm! But it's dreadful to think of how the
aristocracy are taking to marry out of their own set. Look at the Duke of DRAGNET--married
a Miss DUCKWEED--goodness only knows where he picked her up! but he got entangled somehow,
and now his people are trying to get rid of her. I see so many of these cases. Well, I'm afraid
I must wish you good evening--it's my time for retiring. (Patronisingly.) I've quite enjoyed
this conversation--such a pleasure in a place like this to come across a congenial companion!

Mrs. Ard. (fluttered and flattered). I'm sure you're exceedingly kind to say so, and I can
say the same for myself. I hope we may become better acquainted. (To herself, after Mrs. ALLBUTT
has departed.) I've quite taken to that woman--she's so thoroughly the lady, and moves in very
high society, too. You can tell that from the way she talks. What's that paper oil the table?
(She picks up a journal in a coloured wrapper.) Society Snippets, the Organ of the Upper Ten.
One Penny. The very thing I wanted. It's such a comfort to know who's who. (She opens it and
reads sundry paragraphs headed "Through the Keyhole.") Now how funny this is! Here's the very
same thing about the dulness of the Season that she said. That shows she must be really in
it. And a note about Lady NEURALINE being about to recruit at Homburg. And another about her
reputation for eccentricity, and her "sweetness to the select few privileged to be her intimates."
And here's all about Lord MANGO, and what a pleasant house Capsicums is, and his marriage,
and the Duke of DRAGNET's too. Her information was very correct, I must say! (A light begins
to break in upon her.) I wonder whether--but there--people of her sort wouldn't require to
read the papers for such things.

    [Here the door opens, and Mrs. ALLBUTT appears, in some
    embarrassment.

Mrs. All. (scrutinising the tables). Oh, it's nothing. I thought I'd left something of mine
here; it was only a paper--I see I was mistaken, don't trouble.

Mrs. Ard. (producing Society Snippets). I expect it will be this. (Mrs. ALLBUTT's face reveals
her ownership.) I took it up, not knowing it was yours. (Meaningly.) It has some highly interesting
information, I see.

Mrs. All. (slightly demoralised). Oh, has it? I--I've not had time to glance at it yet. Pray
don't let me deprive you of it. I dare say there's very little in it I don't know already.

Mrs. Ard. So I should have thought. (To herself, after Mrs. ALLBUTT has retired in disorder.)
Fancy that woman trying to take me in like that, and no more in Society than I am--if so much!
However, I've found her out before going too far--luckily. And I've a good mind to take in
this Society Snippets myself--it certainly does improve one's conversation. She won't have
it all her own way next time!

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR SONGS RE-SUNG.

NO. IX.--"IN THE MORNING."

The Music-hall Muse, if not exactly impeccably moral, is, at least, good at moralising. Not
only to topers, Totties, larky Benedicts and spreeish servant-maids, is there pregnant meaning
in the warning words "But oh! what a difference in the morning!!!" As may thus--pace "NORTON
ATKINS" and "FELIX MCGLENNON"--be made manifest:--

AIR--"IN THE MORNING!"

  I'd sing of the singular triumphs we see,
            At night, at night!
  In Politics, Pleasure, Love, Art, L.S.D.,
            At night, at night!
  The "Johnnies" of Sport and the "Oof-birds" of Cash,
  The Statesmen who shine, and the Beauties who mash,
  Are in champagny spirits and cut quite a dash,
            At night, at night!
  But oh! don't their hearts ache,
            In the morning?
  Then cometh disillusion and self-scorning.
  Things look their natural size
            Unto hot awaking eyes,
  For no gingerbread is gilded,
            In the morning!

  A Premier potent may perorate free,
            At night, at night!
  And pretty Primrosers will shout and agree,
            At night, at night!
  He'll say those brave Orangemen Home Rule will quash,
  He'll hint that raised Tariffs trade rivals must smash,
  And his eloquence sounds neither rabid nor rash,
            At night, at night!
  But oh! what a difference
            In the morning!
  He vows he merely meant a friendly warning,
  But fuss and fad 'twill boom.
  And his colleagues growl with gloom
  O'er the "Times" upon their tables,
            In the morning!

  Observe what the Specials call "News of the Day"
            At night, at night!
  The Dalziel Telegrams startle, and slay,
            At night, at night!
  There's war in the East, or the CZAR is laid low,
  Financiers have failed--Fifty Millions or so!--
  Or they've found Jack the Ripper in far Jericho,
            At night, at night!
  But oh, what a difference
            In the morning!
  Those Latest Wires were lies, small facts adorning.
  "It is not as we stated,
  For the cable's mutilated,"
  And "we hear 'tis contradicted"
            In the morning!

  Regard the young Clerk who's been out for the day,
            At night, at night!
  First to the Derby, and then to the play,
            At night, at night!
  He "spotted a winner" at twenty to one,
  His winnings will far more than pay for his fun;
  He's happy, free-handed, and "sure as a gun,"
            At night, at night!
  But oh, what a difference
            In the morning!
  The bookie bolts, his "gaffer" gives him warning,
  He's not worth half-a-dollar,
  His prospect's "out of collar,"
  And he curses speculation
            In the morning!

  Behold the young playwright who hears his own piece,
            At night, at night!
  He thinks that (ironic) applause will ne'er cease,
            At night, at night!
  His "little one-act thing" is stodgy and slow,
  But the Pit is good-natured, the youth's in a glow,
  And he thinks--with some "cuts"--it will be "a great go,"
            At night, at night!
  But oh, what a difference
            In the morning!
  The critics call the thing "an awful warning,"
  They "guy," and sneer, and scoff,
  And his bantling's taken off,
  "To make room for some old farce, Sir!"
            In the morning!

       *       *       *       *       *

TAKING THE OAT-CAKE.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--I was very much interested in the statement I saw in the papers the other
day, that the best preservatives of a Lady's complexion are--Oatmeal and Oranges! I at once
began the diet, but have not succeeded very well at present. Porridge, even with milk and cream,
and plenty of sugar, is such commonplace stuff, and one can't really be expected to eat oatmeal
raw, though Scotch gamekeepers are said to do so. But then they are out in the open air all
day, and I am not. Oranges are nice enough--but oh, Mr. Punch, what a lot of them one has to
take before one feels as if one had had a meal! As I have stopped all other food, I am becoming
rather weak. My complexion is, I think, improved--at all events, it is far less red or pink
than it used to be--but I really haven't the strength to go out of doors to show it off. Even
writing is a burden--so I will close, hoping that my experiences may benefit others who like
to try the regimen.

LYDIA LANGUISH.

P.S.--My Doctor has just stopped the diet!

DEAR SIR,--We are sure that the Oatmeal-and-Orange prescription is an invaluable one for the
complexion. We recently tried it on a Street Arab, and after one or two doses--accompanied
by the employment of soap and water--he developed such a beautiful pink-and-white skin, that
his parents failed to recognise him. This was unfortunate in one way, as he has now become
chargeable on the rates. Talking of rates, we may mention that we supply finest Midlothian
Campaign Oatmeal at a more reasonable figure than any other firm in the trade. Price-list on
application.

Yours obediently, McCANNY & Co.

Edinburgh.

SIR,--I am not less than fifty years' old, and marked with small-pox, and therefore I think
that Oatmeal and Oranges would be sure to do my complexion good. As mine is perhaps a rather
unusual case, I am trying the remedy in a peculiarly thorough way. I have an Oatmeal-bath twice
a day, during which I suck six oranges. My breakfast consists of porridge and marmalade. I
have engaged a policeman to knock at my front door three times every night, to wake me. I then
sit up in bed and consume oat-cakes soaked in orange-juice. I also dress in yellow, and I have
written to Belfast to ask if I can be admitted to an Orange Society there, but hitherto I have
received no reply. You will, I think, agree with me that I am giving the new treatment a fair
trial. Yours truly,

TABITHA NUPKINS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BAMSGATE SANDS.

  It's hey for the sands, for the jolly Ramsgate Sands,
  Where the children shout and tumble, spade and bucket in their
          hands.
  Where sandy castles rise in scores, I trow a man might float
  A fleet of six-inch pleasure-skiffs on many a deep-dug moat.
  Where, while the banjos discord make, the German bands make noise,
  And nursemaids by the hundred shepherd flocks of girls and boys.
  Where the boys tuck up their trousers, and the girls tuck up their
          frocks,
  A paddling tribe who scorn their shoes and customary socks.

  Ye loud-voiced men of cocoa-nuts, what is it that you say?
  "Come try yer luck, roll, bowl, or pitch; the lydies stand'
          alf-way."
  One youth I saw who took his stand, a clerk of pith was he,
  He shut one eye and aimed with care, then let the ball fly free.
  Twice, thrice, nay, thirty times he flung, his BETSY standing by,
  And scornfully advising him to close his other eye.
  Yet, when at last he had to own he could not do the trick,
  No solitary cocoa-nut had toppled from its stick.

  Papa is in his glory here, that proud and happy man,
  But in spite of all his efforts, he can't get coloured tan.
  Yet every week-day morning, from ten o'clock till one,
  He turns that British face of his unflinching to the sun.
  Mamma she sits beside him; I overheard her say,
  "Lor, Pa, you'll soon be brown as brown, you're not so red to-day."
  But wives can't flatter tints away, and when he leaves the place,
  I'd guarantee to light my pipe at Pa's tomato face.

  A front-row stall I quick secured, a green and gaudy bench,
  And paid my humble penny to a very buxom wench.
  The tide was running out amain, and slowly, bit by bit,
  She moved her back seats forward till she left me in the pit.
  Stout Mr. BIGGS, the hair-dresser, the Bond-Street mould of form,
  Sat next me with his family, and seemed to find it warm;
  And, while admiring Mrs. B. hung on her BIGGS's lips.
  He favoured me, as is his wont, with all the sporting tips.

  But the most delightful object I saw upon that shore
  Was a ruddy-faced and chubby-legged philosopher of four.
  Though his sisters capered round him, the sage refused to budge,
  He continued quietly digging just as solemn as a judge;
  And if he fell, as men may fall, he spurned their proffered aid,
  But lay awhile and pondered, while he clutched his wooden spade;
  Then, having thought some problem out, and found that life was vain,
  He slowly raised his three-foot form, and set to work again.

  And so the round of pleasure goes; a man could scarce believe
  How swift the merry hours spin by from dewy morn to eve.
  The goat-carts never want for fares fresh from their nurses' arms,
  All day the patient donkeys bear some maid's or matron's charms.
  The haughty ones may carp and sneer, we know their sorry style,
  But we who revel on this shore can hear them with a smile.
  We may be vulgar; what's the odds? We're cottage-folk, not "Grands,"
  And our simple pleasures please us on the jolly Ramsgate Sands.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRURIOLANUS'S NEXT.--The Prodigal Daughter is to be produced, when she's of proper age to come
out, at Drury Lane. Who gave her that name? Is it her "Pettitt nom," or was it her Godfather,
Sir DRURIOLANUS LE GRAND, or was it the joint effort of GRAND et PETTITT, so as to satisfy
all comers Great and Small? The Prodigal Son has already served as the title of an Opera directly
founded on the Scriptural parable of the Prodigal, and has recently been used as the title
of the now famous ballet d'action. There was also a Père Prodigue--which the English schoolboy
thought was French for an uncommonly big Marie Louise specimen; so there is justification and
authority for bringing this new member of The Prodigal family before the Public. Having once
started, there maybe no end to the family of Prodigals. There will follow--The Prodigal Aunt,
The Prodigal Uncle, The Prodigal Second Cousin by first Husband's Marriage, and so on, ad infinitum.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAND OF THE (RATHER TOO) FREE.

    SCENE--The Landing-Stage of an English Port.

Custom-House Officer (through an interpreter). Do you speak English?

Emigrant (ditto). No.

Cust.-H. Off. (as before). Have you any money?

Emi. (ditto). Not a kopeck.

Cust.-H. Off. Where do you come from?

Emi. Polish Russia.

Cust.-H. Off. Have you any family?

Emi. A sick wife and eight sick children.

Cust.-H. Off. Do any of you know a trade?

Emi. None of us.

Cust.-H. Off. Are you well enough to work?

Emi. No.

Cust.-H. Off. Have you any friends in England?

Emi. Don't know a soul.

Cust.-H. Off. Have you any luggage?

Emi. Only the Cholera!

       *       *       *       *       *

A COMPENDIOUSLY GRAMMATICAL TREE.--A Yew Tree. First it may be a 'Igh Tree, but it is a Yew
Tree. It is either a He Tree or a She Tree. If small, it represents the first person plural
by being a "Wee Tree:" the second person plural is the Manager and Manageress of the Haymarket,
"Ye Trees;" and the third person plural would be expressed by a Devonshire Gardener indicating
this talented couple as "They Trees."

       *       *       *       *       *

TEE, TEE, ONLY TEE!

(SONG OF THE GOLF ENTHUSIAST. AFTER THOMAS MOORE.)

AIR--"Thee, thee, only thee."

  The dawn of morn, the daylight's sinking,
  Shall find me on the Links, and thinking
      Of Tee, Tee, only Tee!
  When rivals meet upon the ground,
    The Putting-green's a realm enchanted,
  Nay, in Society's giddy round
    My soul, (like Tooting's thralls) is haunted
      By Tee, Tee, only Tee!'

  For that at early morn I waken,
  And swiftly bolt my eggs and bacon,
      For Tee, Tee, only Tee!
  I'm game to start all in the dark
    To the Links hurrying--resting never.
  The Caddie yawns, but, like a lark,
    I halt not, heed not, hastening ever
      To Tee, Tee, only Tee!

  Of chilly fog I am no funker,
  I'll brave the very biggest bunker
      For Tee, Tee, only Tee!
  A spell that nought on earth can break
    Holds me. Golf's charms can ne'er be spoken;
  But late I'll sleep, and early wake,
    Of loyalty be this my token,
      To Tee, Tee, only Tee!

       *       *       *       *       *

INNS AND OUTS.

NO. II.--THE HEAD-WETTER.

I entitle him as self-pronounced. If "Mr." is the Grand-Hôtel Jupiter, the Head-Waiter is its
Mercury. Nothing modern is so versatile as the Head-Waiter. The first thing about the Head-Waiter
is his cigars. These are covered with tinsel and colours: very gay--almost as gay as the Head-Waiter.
They are of unpronounceable and unknown brands. They vary in price and size, but agree in flavour--liquorice,
tempered by ink. Like the fabled fruit, they crumble to ashes in your mouth. If you are only
a bird of passage, you will often find a box or so in your room. "Great opportunity--veritable
Pestarenas of Nockudaun--one whole box for a sovereign English," the Head-Waiter assures you.
The memory of that man is astounding; he remembers all the numbers, all the wines, all the
names, and all the Lady's-maids. For he is a bit of a Leporello, is the Head-Waiter.

After dinner, where he takes a dozen orders, makes a dozen recommendations, and tells a dozen
lies at once, you may see him philandering by the Lake with MARY ANN, JEANETTE, and KLARA,
all jealous, and all adoring, teaching each the language of the other, and all the art of love.
I have often envied him. The Head-Waiter's life is a "happy one." He is ubiquitous; Egypt,
The Riviera, Switzerland, and Italy, see him by turns; in each he has a white waistcoat, of
which Mr. CHAMBERLAIN might be proud, infinite occupation, and infinite diversion; his nimbleness,
his light-heartedness, his languages, and his cigars, are inexhaustible.

How we besiege him in the morning! "Luncheon, ADOLF, for a party of seven, in a basket--a nice
basket, you know--and don't forget the corkscrew." "Yes, yes, I know--and you take the bottle-bier--it
is much better nor the warne. Ha! Ha!" What a laugh!--a roguish, child-like merriment of a
Greek-godlike character--or want of it. Old Ladies talk to him quite trustingly at first sight;
it's "ADOLF, have you such a thing as a bottle of gum--gummi, gum, you understand"; or, "Could
you get me another cushion"? He can, and does. As for the children, they love him; he romps
with them, and does conjuring tricks, and warbles innumerable songs. That man gets through
more in one day than the Prime Minister of England--and, between you and me, I believe he is
fully as capable--and yet he finds time to write a letter to his old mother at Hamburg--I have
seen him do it. Perhaps it was about the cigars! The only people who hate ADOLF are the Under-Waiters;
he rules them with a rod of iron, marshalling their heated battalions at table d'hôte, and
plundering them of their sweethearts; if he breaks anything (hearts included), it is they who
have to pay. It is ADOLF's only weakness--he is a bully to underlings of his own trade. But
then he has been an Under-Waiter once himself, and suffering brutalises; however, he is outside
the sphere of morality, and I could pardon him almost anything.

From time to time his fascinations induce an Englishman or Englishwoman to take this treasure
home as a servant. But ADOLF in livery, and ADOLF with his magic order-book, are two very different
people. Little things are missing; he becomes quarrelsome; the gipsy-spirit returns--and he
is off again, blithe as ever, on his travels. "London very naice," he says, as you buy that
infernal Pestarena; "Porebier, very naise; 'Ampton Court, very naise; I know dem, hein? But,
is no sunshine, no air, no gaiety." And ADOLF cannot exist without sunshine, air, and gaiety.
Also he prefers being his own master, which, as Head-Waiter, he practically is.

How insinuating he is about the food, "Some naice fishes? Dey was laiving dis morning." And
then, how accommodating! I was once in the Grand Hôtel during the usual "exceptional season,"
when it rained unintermittently for a fortnight; the place was empty; "tristeful," as ADOLF
styled it. The genius played billiards with me every day, and always won, though I rather fancy
myself; and then how mindful he is of your individual bettings. "I gif you dis place by de
window--to do you joy!" he ejaculates. The simple creature, he is constantly trying to "make
you please."

I always present ADOLF with ten shillings--five on arrival, and five on departure. This procures
me many harmless little privileges; and when old BROWN calls him an impertinent brute, I know
that BROWN and ten shillings are difficult to part.

There is nothing ADOLF will not do for you for a sovereign--but I cannot run to this; and yet
this is the impression he has made.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AN OLD AND NEW PEER.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--Look here! I've done good service in my time, and no one likes to see himself
deprived of an honoured title, or forced to take a back seat. I've been trodden under-foot
over and over again--but I've borne it with fortitude, and never, never given way. Now, what
do I hear? That a Gentleman, a Government Whip, for whom I have the highest esteem and respect,
is now to assume the title which, by right of position, place, time, and prescription, belongs
to me, and to me only, I can bear much, but, after so many years of devoted service, during
which, with all my opportunities, I have never once made any attempt to leave my place to go
higher up, or to go lower down, or, in either case, to go with the tide, I cannot, and, indeed,
will not, yield my title to anyone, however good and useful to his Party he may have been,
but proudly declaring myself as good as any "Sprig of Nobility," even as this one who cometh
up as a Flower, I beg, protestingly, to remind the world at large that I am "Nulli Secundus,"
and de facto et dejure,

THE ONLY BATTERSEA PEER.

P.S.--Spell it with an "i" or "e," it's all one. If my "i" is put out, and "he" has got in
instead, that's a mere quibble or quebble.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMBERS WE SHALL MISS.

Our Old Parliamentary Artistic Hand been at it again; looking with eyesight blurred with sorrow
on familiar forms of some Members stranded at General Election. Dismembered, and, for some
time at least, not to be remembered. COWLEY LAMBERT always been a rover. Went Midland Circuit
for short time, and having made the Circuit, made for home. Then he accomplished "A Trip to
Cashmere and Ladak." Opportunity now for varying itinerary, and making a "Trip to Ladak and
Cashmere." Must be moving somewhere. Wrote himself down in Dod "a Progressive Conservative."
Has now progressed out of sight of the Chair. This particular CAMPBELL is neither coming nor
going. He's gone.

PULESTON seems quite pleased to find LLEWELLYN sitting there, all unconscious of his doom.
PULESTON a little astonished himself when things went bad at Carnarvon. Only short time ago
made Constable of Castle; thought P.C. PULESTON sure to come in at head of poll; but, "from
information received," appears he didn't.

Observe the eye of HAVELOCK-ALLAN on the alert. He cannot see behind his back, but instinctively
knows there is an Irish Member in the vicinity. His teeth close, his moustache curls, his eyes
glare. He once publicly, in course of debate, sat upon an Irish Member; not metaphorically,
but physically. Irish Member, when he wriggled from under, appealed to SPEAKER on point of
order. SPEAKER ruled proceeding decidedly out of order. "But I sat on him, TOBY, dear boy,"
HAVELOCK said, triumphantly; "and I shall retain the impression to end of my life."

"So will he," I observed, when HAVELOCK was safe out of hearing. He doesn't like retorts.

The sketch of BAUMANN evidently taken at the moment he heard the announcement of poll at North
Salford. Seems to have knocked him rather of a heap. Was known in House as Cupid's Bowman;
a smart able, useful Member, whom we shall all be glad to see back again.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

"'Over the Hills and far away!' follow yours faithfully CLEMENT SCOTT." This is the full title,
and signed advice to the public given on the frontispiece of his little shilling book published
by EGLINTON. It is dedicated to Sir EDWARD LAWSON--"right thing to do my boy!"--and appropriately
so, as if the Baron's memory runneth not to the contrary, most if not all the articles in this
author's little holiday-book have appeared at some time or other in the D.T., and do not suffer
any D.T.rioration by being bound up together in this shilling volume. It tells of a visit to
Hayling, where he picked up health, strength, and an aspirate, when he went there ailing; he
tells of Suffolk, where a branch of the Great Punchian Family is settled, known as The Suffolk
Punches; he prattles of Honeymoon Land, where he met the man with seven wives, each of whom
had a cat, and to each cat there was a kit, and to each wife a kit too, it is to be hoped,
in the shape otherwise of a trousseau, and of many other pleasant restful places and refreshing
jaunts he tells delightfully. "But of all the pleasant places in which his lines have fallen,
commend me," quoth the Baron,--"and the lines he has written will send many to these pleasant
places--(But O the Trippers!)--of all these give me the Flower Farm at Holy Vale and the Valley
of Ferns." If the reader cannot go to all the sweet resorts herein mentioned, let him be induced
by the first article to visit Holy Vale, and he will find CLEMENT SCOTT an admirable guide
for "the Scilly Season." Of course our NOT-YET-DUN-SCOTUS hath visited the Cyril-Flower-Farm
on the Norfolk Coast. Advice: Stand not on the money-order of your going, but go at once, and
stop there. As to money, remember your Uncle dwells in Poppy Land, quoth their true friend,

THE TRAVELLED BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

