"Will you let Captain Logan go alone?" reproached the women.

"No.  I'm with you, Cap," exclaimed John Martin.  "A man can die but once, and I'm as ready
now as I'll ever be."

"Open the gate.  Keep the savages off us.  That's all we ask," Captain Logan ordered.

He and John Martin stood, braced for their dash.  The gate was swung ajar, and instantly they
dived through.  But as if he had gained strength, Burr Harrison rose to his knees.  Seeing,
John Martin whirled and leaped back under cover again.  He afterward explained that he thought
Burr was coming in of himself, and rifles would be needed more in the fort than outside.

Captain Logan only paused; then, crouched, he darted on, for Harrison had toppled.  During
the space of just a moment or two the Indians were silent.  Now, before he had reached his
goal, a musket whanged, from the thicket--a second followed--the firing swelled to a volley,
while the stockade answered.

Was he down?  No, not yet.  He had seized Burr, and hoisting him in his two arms was coming
at a plunging run through the spatter of bullets and the drift of powder-smoke.

The gate swung wider.  He was here--he panted in, out-sped by the balls but still on his feet.
Eager hands received him and his burden; the gate slammed to and the bar fell into place.

"Hurt, Logan?"

"No.  Never mind me; watch the walls."

There were bullet-holes in his shirt and hat.  The gate and the pickets enclosing it were riddled,
but by a miracle the lead had not touched his flesh.

The women tended to Burr.  He was grievously wounded--he lived six weeks and died in his bed,
which was better than dying by torture or the tomahawk.  So Captain Logan's hero deed had not
been in vain.

The rescue made the Indians very angry.  They laid themselves to the siege, and so briskly
they maintained it that there was no rest for the little garrison of only ten able-bodied men,
nor was there any chance for succor from Harrodsburg or Boonesborough.

Within less than a week the ammunition was almost spent, and the food alarmingly low.  Help
must be summoned from the Holston settlement on the Holston River in southwestern Virginia,
two hundred miles by Boone's Trace.

How many might be spared from the feeble garrison?  Not more than two--not more than one; and
after a short debate, Captain Logan himself set out, in the night of June 6.

It was a forlorn hope, but he slipped out amidst the darkness, by way of a loosened picket
in the rear of the stockade, and vanished.  The garrison strained their ears, listening.  They
heard nothing, and breathed a sigh of relief.  For an hour more they listened, fearing sudden
burst of whoops and shots.  Silence reigned.  Good!  Captain Logan was through the lines by
this time.

But could he make it, when all the surrounding country was being watched by the Shawnee scouts?
He had planned to avoid the Boone Trace.  That surely would be guarded close; it was the white
man's road.  He was to follow no trail at all, and the wilderness had swallowed him.

Two weeks passed.  There was no token of any nature from Captain Logan. Likely enough he had
perished; the bullet, the tomahawk, perhaps the torture stake, had stopped him.  His wife was
in despair, and the garrison were beginning to despair, for the powder had dwindled, and the
Indians had relaxed their relentless circle for never an instant. It seemed impossible that
a man could get through them, going or coming.

In the night of June 23 the guards heard a scratching on the loose picket.  A trick?  Be careful.

"Hist!  It's I--Logan."

What!  They stood aside, with hatchets lifted; but he it was, for he poked a pack ahead of
him, and slipped in after.

He told his story.  Five hundred miles, at least, he had trudged, always at top speed, day
and night; making his own trail, through tangled vines, across streams, up and down lonely
gorges;  and now he brought powder, and the promise of reinforcements.

In all his journey eastward and westward he had not been sighted by an Indian.  It was a trip
long remembered in the border country.

With such a leader, no garrison would yield.  Logan's Station was filled with courage and hope
renewed.  It fought on, day after day, night after night, constantly expecting the reinforcements.
Finally it seemed that Captain Logan's venture had been for naught; a month had elapsed since
his return, and the reinforcements had not arrived.  Once more the powder was low, and by this
time the scanty provisions had been reduced to miserably small rations.

This was August 23.  The end appeared near.  On August 25 gun shots sounded, in the timber
behind the Shawnee lines.  Indians were running. Relief had come--the reinforcements were breaking
through!  Hurrah!

No!  The gun-fire ceased.  Hope died again.  The Indians were too thick.  Logan's Station settled
for another night of waiting.

But the next morning, where were the Shawnees?  From the stockade weary eyes searched to locate
the shadowy forms.  All was quiet.  What had happened?  If the Indians actually were gone,
that could mean only one thing: relief.  Could it be true, at last!

Within a short time, amidst the cheers of the men and the sobs of the women Colonel John Bowman
led his column of Virginians straight into the widely open gate of the fort.

He had brought from the Holston one hundred rifle-men.  He had already been at Boonesborough--therefore
his delay.  From Boonesborough he had advanced for Logan's Station, sweeping the timber.  The
Shawnees had ambushed six of his advance scouts, and killed two.  But here he was, just in
nick of time, with his hardy Long Knives, whose rifles were as much feared as the rifles of
the Long Hunters.

Logan's Station, Harrodsburg and Boonesborough were saved, for the present.  The Shawnees,
Mingos and warring Delawares continued to watch them close.

Benjamin Logan lived on, as scout, soldier and Kentucky statesman, and died peacefully in 1802,
aged fifty years.

This was the Zane settlement away up in the panhandle of North-Western Virginia; to-day the
city of Wheeling, West Virginia.

The Zanes, first there, were three brothers: Colonel Ebenezer, Silas and Jonathan.  They all
were of the roving "wild-turkey" breed, and bolder spirits never wore buckskin or sighted a
rifle.  A fourth brother, Isaac, had been taken by the Indians when nine years old, and had
chosen to stay with them.  He married a sister of a Wyandot chief; rose to be a chief, himself,
but never lifted the hatchet against the whites.  On the contrary, he helped them when he might.

It was in the summer of 1769 that the three Zanes led a party from present Moorfield, on the
South Branch of the Potomac River in eastern West Virginia, to explore northwest into a country
where Ebenezer already had spent a season.  They reached the Ohio and looked down upon the
shining river, and the lovely vales surrounding, where Wheeling up-sprang.

Ebenezer Zane, then twenty-three years old, built a cabin on a knoll near the river above the
mouth of Wheeling Creek.  The Zane family home was here long after Wheeling became a town.
Jonathan lived with Eb; Silas put up a cabin beside the creek.  The next year they went back
for their wives and children; other settlers returned with them.  Among these were John Wetzel,
whose five sons, Lewis, Jacob, Martin, John and George grew to be such frontier fighters that
Lewis was called the Boone of West Virginia; there were the McCollochs--John, William and Samuel--whose
sister Elizabeth had married Eb Zane; and another of the Zanes, Andrew.

Those were days of large families.

Up and down the east bank of the Ohio, north and south of Wheeling Creek, the number of cabins
gradually increased, until in the year of the "three bloody sevens" they numbered some twenty-five
or thirty.

They were scattered here and there under the protection of a fort that had been built three
years before by the Government.  At first it was named Fort Fincastle, after Fincastle County
of Virginia; the name had been changed to Fort Henry, in honor of the great Patrick Henry,
orator and governor of the State of Virginia; but it was known also as Wheeling Fort.

And considerable of a fort it was, too--ranking second to only the famed Fort Pitt at Pittsburgh.
It stood near the river edge of a flat bluff about a quarter of a mile up the Ohio from the
mouth of Wheeling Creek.  Its stockade of sharpened white-oak pickets seventeen feet high enclosed
more than half an acre, with small block-houses or bastions in the corners, and with a commandant's
log house of two stories, in the middle.

Inland, or east from it, there arose a high hill--Wheeling Hill. Between the fort and the base
of the hill were the Ebenezer Zane cabin and the other cabins, on the bottom-lands, forming
Wheeling.

To this time young Wheeling had been little bothered by the Indians. But the Ohio River was
the border country; it flowed through a No-Man's Land.  On the east and south the white people
were pressing toward it, on the west and north the red people were seeking to keep its banks
clear.  The struggle waged back and forth.  All the territory of present Ohio was red, and
in Ohio and adjacent Indiana the Shawnees, Miamis, Wyandot Hurons, the Mingos, the war Delawares,
and such, had their principal towns.  The Wheeling settlements in the pan-handle were within
short striking distance of the Indian strongholds.

The War of the Revolution had been in full stride for a year.  The majority of the Indians
of the northwest sided with the British, in the hopes of keeping their country from the Americans.
It is said that Isaac Zane, the white Wyandot, sent the word of danger to the commanding officer
at Fort Pitt.  At any rate, on the first day of August, 1777, Chief White-eyes the friendly
Delaware appeared there with warning that the Indians of the Northern Confederacy, helped by
the British, were making ready "to take Wheeling home with them."

General Edward Hand of Fort Pitt dispatched a runner to Colonel David Shepherd, of Fort Shepherd,
six miles up Wheeling Creek.

"The Indians are planning to attack Wheeling.  You will therefore remove your forces from Fort
Shepherd and rally all the militia of your district between the Ohio and the Monongahela at
Fort Henry."

No regular troops might be spared by General Washington; they were needed at the front--and
these were dark days for the Buff and Blue. The home guards, or militia, needs must protect
the settlements on the far border.  But Fort Henry itself had no garrison of any kind.  The
settlers around-about were supposed to defend it when defending themselves.

Colonel David Shepherd was lieutenant in charge of the pan-handle--which at that time included
a slice of Pennsylvania on the east.  He had under him a number of small block-houses.  From
these and the settlements he summoned eleven companies of militia.  He also worked hard to
put Fort Henry in good repair.

Had the Indians struck at once, they might have scored heavily, in spite of the fighting Zanes,
Wetzels, McCollochs, and all.  But they delayed, and by the last week of August Colonel Shepherd
reported to General Hand:

"We are well prepared.  Fort Henry is Indian proof."

He relaxed, and dismissed nine of the militia companies, so that only two remained: the companies
of Captain Joseph Ogle and Captain Samuel Mason, composed mainly of Wheeling men.  There were
about sixty, in all.

The night of the last day of August Captain Ogle returned to the fort from a scout with twelve
of his men.  He had been watching the trails.

"Never a sign of Injun anywhere around," he and Martin Wetzel and the others declared.

The warning by White-eyes seemed to have been a false alarm, or else the Indians had learned
of the preparations and had backed out.

That very night, however, the Indians cunningly crossed the Ohio below the fort, instead of
above; there were almost four hundred of them--Shawnees, Wyandots, Mingos, accompanied by a
white man interpreter.  They saw the lights in the fort, and planned their favorite morning
surprise instead of a direct attack.

So they formed two lines from the river to a bend in the creek, facing the fort and surrounding
the settlers' cabins.  A corn field hid them. The main road from the fort down through the
corn field led right between the two lines.  Then they posted six warriors, who should show
themselves and decoy the garrison out.

Some of the militia-men were in the fort; others were with their families in the cabins, for
after the first alarm the cabins had been used again.  Wheeling slept well this night of August
31, with no inkling that three hundred and eighty or more red enemies were occupying its own
corn fields.

A heavy fog dimmed the sunrise.  Andrew Zane, Samuel Tomlinson, John Boyd (a mere lad) and
a negro slave started out to hunt the horses of James McMechen, who had decided to leave. 
All unsuspecting, they passed right through the first line of Indians.  They met the six decoys.

For a few minutes there was lively work.  A single shot brought poor young Boyd to the ground;
in making for the fort Andrew Zane leaped a terrific distance (the stories say, seventy feet)
down a cliff bank; but the six Indians did not pursue far, none of the other Indians took part,
and Andrew Zane, Samuel Tomlinson and the negro reached safety.

"How many out there, Andy?"

"Six is all we counted.  We saw no sign of more," panted Andrew Zane.

"By thunder, we can't let Boyd lie unavenged, without a try.  That's beyond human nature. 
With Colonel Shepherd's permission I'll take some men and shake the rascals up," Captain Mason
exclaimed.

Out he marched, with fourteen of his company.  The six Indians decoyed them on.  Those scores
of fierce eyes that had been peering from trees and corn-stalks, waiting for the morning to
break and for this very sally to occur, focussed on the sight.

Suddenly the war-whoop rang.  Behind, and on either flank of the Captain Mason party the painted
scalps and faces of the Indians rose above the tassels and brush--their muskets belched smoke
and lead through the fog.

Wellnigh by the one volley two-thirds of the men fell; the others turned in retreat.  Soon
it become every man for himself.  William Shepherd, son of Colonel Shepherd, almost gained
the stockade.  Shelter beckoned, faintly seen.  But his foot caught in a grape-vine, down he
pitched, head-long, and a war-club finished him.  Captain Mason and his sergeant burst through
the Indian line, and raced up the slope, for the protection of the loop-holes.  The captain
had been twice wounded, and had lost his rifle.

Midway, the sergeant dropped.  Captain Mason paused for a moment, to help him.

"No use, Cap.  I've got to stay.  Take my gun and save yourself. Better one, here, than two."

It had to be.  Captain Mason took the gun.  Without a weapon, the brave and crippled sergeant
died like a hero.

An Indian, tomahawk in hand, pursued the captain close.  Captain Mason sensed the lifted hatchet
poised to split his head.  He was too weak to run farther--he whirled, to grapple.  He had
not noticed that the sergeant's rifle was loaded.  By a vigorous shove he pushed the Indian
backward, down hill, and the tomahawk blade was buried in the ground. The gun!  It was loaded
and capped!  He leveled and fired just in time, and the Indian, at the very muzzle, fell dead.

The captain made onward.  He concealed himself under a large felled tree; remained there for
the rest of the day and into the night.

The people of the cabins and the fort had heard the fracas out in the fog.  They could see
little.  Still not knowing how many Indians there were, Captain Ogle and twelve men sallied
to the reinforcement.  They, too, were ambushed, and wiped out.  Captain Ogle himself hid in
a fence-corner, until darkness.  Only Sergeant Jacob Ogle, his son, Martin Wetzel and perhaps
one other man, escaped to the fort.

From the Captain Mason party only Hugh McConnell and Thomas Glenn came. Of the twenty-six men
under the two captains these five, alone, ran gasping in from the deadly fog; and two had been
badly wounded.

By this time the women and children, carrying the babies, and many of them still in their night-clothes,
had scurried from their cabin homes into the fort.  The mists were lifting; and barely had
the gates of the fort been closed again when the Indian lines advanced upon the village. They
appeared, marching to beat of drum, with the British flag flying; crossed the corn-field bottom-land
and took possession of the village. The cabins and out-buildings swarmed with them.

From a window of a cabin near to the fort the white savage shouted a message.  He promised
mercy to all the people who would join the cause of their sovereign, King George; he had come
to escort them safely to Detroit.  And he read a proclamation from Lieutenant-Governor Henry
Hamilton, the general commanding the British Northwest, offering pardon to the "rebels" who
would renounce the cause of the Colonies.  The people here would be allowed fifteen minutes
to decide.

There were no faint hearts in Fort Henry.  You may do your worst."

"Think well of that," retorted the Indian's spokesman.  "I have a thousand warriors.  They
are rich with powder and guns furnished by their father at Detroit.  Once you enrage them,
I will not be able to hold them back.  Then it will not be possible for you to escape. Better
for you to save your wives and children by accepting the offer of the governor and yielding
to your rightful king."

But a rifle bullet made him duck.  The attack opened at once.

There were thirty-three men and grown boys in the fort; and as many women and children.  Led
by the white savage, the Indians charged the gate with battering-ram logs; the log-carriers
fell, but a hundred warriors stormed the palisade and tore with their knives and tomahawks
and fingers at the pickets.

From the loop-holes the long rifles cracked in a steady drum-fire. Every man and boy who could
raise a muzzle aimed and fired and aimed and fired again.  Every woman was busy--running bullets,
filling powder flasks, loading rifles and leaning them ready for the eager, groping hands,
and serving out water and food.

Two of the strongest women, Mothers Glum and Betsy Wheat, took station at loop-holes and shot
the same as the men.  Border women, they, who well knew the uses of a rifle.

A dummy cannon, of painted wood, had been mounted upon the flat roof of the commandant's quarters.
But the Indian soon saw that it did not awaken.  They laughed and jeered, and grew bolder.

Within the fort all was a reek of powder-smoke; the stout pickets quivered to the pelting balls--every
loop-hole was a target.  Never did a garrison work harder; there was not an idle hand, for
the wounded crawled about, helping.

The Indians withdrew as quickly as they had come, and from the cover of the cabins shot furiously.
In the afternoon they tried once more. They divided, and launched a heavy attack upon the south
end of the fort.  The garrison rushed to repel.  A cry arose:

"Here!  In the front!  Quick!"

The attack had been a feint--battering-rams were crashing against the gates again.  Back to
defend the gates ran the men, and the enemy did not get in.

Toward evening the attacks lessened.  The little garrison had a breathing space, sorely needed.
Their faces were grimy, their eyes wearied, their rifles fouled in spite of the frequent cleanings
by the women.  Fortunately the fort had its own well--but how long would the ammunition and
provisions last!

That proved to be a hideous night.  About nine o'clock the Indians rallied, in a third attack.
They fired the cabins and out-buildings before the fort; the blaze gave them light.  All was
pandemonium. Colonel Zane saw his home go up in flame and smoke, while the feathered, shrieking
foe danced and capered and deluged the fort with lead.  The whole village blazed, and the frightened
cows and horses and dogs scampered in slaughter.

The fort showed no lights; the Indians' figures were outlined blackly, and the rifles of the
Zanes, the Wetzels, and the others--every man a dead shot--picked them off.

So the night attacks failed.  Morning brought a pleasant surprise. Colonel Andrew Swearingen,
Captain Bilderdock and Private Boshears entered at the rear of the fort, having climbed up
from the river. They brought the news that they had left twelve men, near by, from Fort Holliday,
twenty-four miles above.  But they had feared, by reason of the burning houses, that Fort Henry
had been taken.

"Not yet, sir," reproved Colonel Zane.  "Not while we have a bullet for a rifle."

Back went the three, to the boat, and the twelve men were brought in.

The Indians had been strangely quiet since before daylight.  Had they actually quit, defeated!
Who might say?  It was decided to send out two scouts, to see.  The scouts stole as far as
the corn-field and sighted nothing but the plundered, smoking homes, the carcasses of the cattle,
and the bloody trail of bodies that had been dragged off.  Not a shot was fired at them.

Scarcely had they returned, hopeful, and Colonel Ebenezer Zane was about to lead out a larger
force, when they all heard a cheer.  They looked.  Hurrah!  Another company of men, ahorse,
were galloping across the bottom, for the top of the bluff, and the fort gates.

"It's Major McColloch!  It's Sam McColloch, from Short Creek!  Huzza! Huzza!"

Short Creek was a dozen miles north.  The McCollochs lived there.  Here they came--the Short
Creek settlers, business bent.

And on a sudden, as the battered double gates of the fort swung, the Indians sprang from the
very ground, and charged to cut off the galloping company.  'Twas a race for life or death.
Shooting right and left, the Short Creek riders tore on.  They were winning, they were winning.
Major Sam McColloch veered aside, to let his men pass.  He was resolved that not one should
fail.  It was a generous act--the act of a real captain.  But he lingered too long.  The Indians
were upon him--they out-stripped him, as he turned late, and before his horse had caught its
stride they were between him and the gates.

He wheeled around, and bending low to avoid the bullets he sped at a tangent in the opposite
direction, for the timber of Wheeling Hill. The Indians afoot could not catch him, no bullet
caught him; he would make it--he would make it; there he goes, up the hill.  He was safe--but
was he?

He had planned to reach another fort: Van Metre's Fort, a block-house beyond the hill.  And
he himself thought that he was safe, until, galloping more easily along the brow of the hill,
he ran squarely into another band of Indians, trooping to the siege of Fort Henry.  The Indians
recognized him.  They all knew Sam McColloch and his white horse; they asked no better prize.

"Sam!  Now we got you, Sam!"  They spread, to take him alive.

Again he wheeled.  There were foes in front of him, foes closing in hot behind him, and a dusky
line extending on his right.  On his left the hill ended in a precipice.  He chose the precipice,
and with his moccasined heels hammered his horse straight for it.

Yelling gleefully, the Indians ran after.  Now they had Sam.

Just as the foremost arrived at the spot where Major Sam should be at bay, they heard a crashing
of brush and branches, a grinding of rock and gravel.  They peered over.  It was three hundred
feet to the creek below--and plunging, scrambling, now on its haunches, now on its nose, the
white horse was bounding, leaping, sprawling, already half way down, with the major firmly
astride, reins in one hand, rifle in the other.

For one hundred feet there was a sheer drop that might have daunted even a deer.  But the horse
had taken it--he had struck on his feet, where the rougher slope commenced; from there he had
slid, braced, and scratching fire from the rock; he was still sliding and pitching. Other Indians
panted in, to peer.  Presently the defiant shout of Major McColloch echoed up to them.  He
flourished his rifle, and splashing through the creek went clattering into the timbered flat
on the other side.

Major McColloch's Leap was a famous spot through many years.

The reinforcements to the fort discouraged the Indians.  It was saved. Major McColloch also
had been saved, but the red enemy did get him, at last, five years later.

That was the fall of 1782.  He and his brother John were looking for Indian sign, out of the
same Fort Van Metre which was located east of the Short Creek settlement, over near the Monongahela
River.  They made a circuit west, almost down to Wheeling, and on July 30 were circuiting back
by way of Short Creek, for Van Metre's again, without having discovered a single track, when
from the bushes half a dozen guns opened on them.

Major Sam wilted in his seat and fell to the ground dead.  John's horse crumpled under him,
dead also, but he himself was wounded only by a scratch across his hip.

He saw that Sam was dead; the Indians were yelling--and as quick as thought he had sprung to
his brother's horse, and was away, to give the alarm at Van Metre's.  He looked back.  The
Indians were flocking into the trail, and one was about to scalp Sam.  John drew rein, threw
his rifle to his shoulder, the ball sped true.  That Indian took no scalp.

John reached Van Metre's.  The next day Major Sam McColloch's body was rescued.  The Indians
had eaten his heart, to make them as bold, they said in after years, as he had been.  Salt
is a habit.  White people, red people and all animals get along very well with no salt, until
they have learned the taste of it; and then they will travel almost any distance to get it.
Salt licks are famous places for deer.

The Licking River of northeastern Kentucky was named by reason of the salty springs along its
course.  It lay about forty miles northeast from Boonesborough.  Boonesborough itself had been
planted only some sixty yards from a small salt lick, but this proved not enough.  So on January
8 Daniel Boone led thirty men and several horses packed with large "boiling pans," to the Lower
Blue Licks of the Licking River.

The process of making salt here was slow.  Eight hundred and forty gallons of the water needs
must be boiled down, to obtain one bushel of salt.  But there was no great hurry.  It was the
winter season, when the Indians usually stayed home.

Two or three of the men hunted for meat, while the others made salt. They all lived well; game
was plenty in the neighborhood of licks.  A month had passed.  On Saturday, February 7, Daniel
Boone was hunting by himself, with horse and rifle, in a snow-storm.  He had killed a buffalo,
tied the best of the meat upon his horse, and was trudging for camp, when four Indians surprised
him.

For a few moments he worked fast, to defend himself, untie the meat, mount his horse and escape.
But the thongs were stiff with the cold. He, too, was stiff, and his fingers grew numb.  He
sprang behind a tree, his rifle ready, but saw himself surrounded.

