In reference to the Query by X. Y. Z., as to whether Bishop Butler died in the Roman Catholic
communion, allow me to refer your correspondent to the contents of the letters from Dr. Forster
and Bishop Benson to Secker, then Bishop of Oxford, concerning the last illness and death of
the prelate in question, deposited at Lambeth amongst the private MSS. of Archbishop Seeker,
"as negative arguments against the calumny of his dying a Papist."

Than the allegations that Butler died with a Roman Catholic book of devotion in his hand, and
that the last person in whose company he was seen was a priest of that persuasion, nothing
can be more unreasonable, if at least it be meant to deduce from these unproved statements
that the bishop agreed with the one and held communion with the other. Dr. Forster, his chaplain,
was with him at his death, which happened about 11 A.M., June 16; and this witness observes
(in a letter to the Bishop of Oxford, June 18) that "the last four-and-twenty hours preceding
which [i. e. his death] were divided between short broken slumbers, and intervals of a calm
but disordered talk when awake." Again (letter to Ditto, June 17), Forster says that Bishop
Butler, "when, for a day or two before his death, he had in a great measure lost the use of
his faculties, was perpetually talking of writing to your lordship, though without seeming
to have anything which, at least, he was at all capable of communicating to you." Bishop Benson
writes to the Bishop of Oxford (June 12) that Butler's "attention to any one or anything is
immediately lost and gone;" and, "my lord is incapable, not only of reading, but attending
to anything read or said." And again, "his attention to anything is very little or none."

There was certainly an interval between this time (June 12) and "the last four-and-twenty hours"
preceding his death, during which, writes Bishop Benson (June 17), Butler "said kind and affecting
things more than I could bear." Yet, on the whole, I submit that these extracts, if fully weighed
and considered with all the attending circumstances, contain enough of even positive evidence
to refute conclusively the injurious suspicions alluded to by X. Y. Z., if such are still current.

J. R. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

MITIGATION OF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT TO FORGERS.

(Vol. iv., p. 434., &c.)

I have asked many questions, and turned over many volumes and files of newspapers, to get at
the real facts of the cases of mitigation stated in "N. & Q." Having winnowed the chaff as
thoroughly as I could, I send the very few grains I have found. Those only who have searched
annual registers, magazines, and journals for the foundation of stories defective in names
and dates, will appreciate my difficulties.

I have not found any printed account of the "Jeannie Deans" case, "N. & Q.," Vol. iv., p. 434.;
Vol. v., p. 444.; Vol. vi., p. 153. I have inquired of the older members of the Northern Circuit,
and they never heard of it. Still a young man may have been convicted of forgery "about thirty-five
years ago:" his sister may have presented a well-signed petition to the judges, and the sentence
may have been commuted without the tradition surviving on the circuit. All however agree, that
no man who ever sat on the bench deserved the imputation of "obduracy" less than Baron Graham.
I should not have noticed the anecdote but for its mythic accompaniments, which I disposed
of in "N. & Q.," Vol. v., p. 444.

In Vol. vi., p. 496., W. W. cites from Wade's British History:

    "July 22, 1814. Admiral William B----y found guilty of forging letters
    to defraud the revenue. He was sentenced to death, which was commuted
    to banishment."

The case is reported in The Sun, July 25, 1814; and the subsequent facts are in The Times,
July 30, and August 16 and 20. It was tried before Mr. Justice Dampier at the Winchester Summer
Assizes. There were five bills against the prisoner for forgery, and one for a fraud. That
on which he was convicted, was for defrauding the post-master of Gosport of 3l. 8s. 6d. He
took to the post-office a packet of 114 letters, which he said were "ship letters," from the
"Mary and Jane." He received the postage, and signed the receipt "W. Johnstone." The letters
were fictitious. The case was fully proved, and he received sentence of death. He was respited
for a fortnight, and afterwards during the pleasure of the Prince Regent. He was struck off
the list of retired {574} rear-admirals. It was proved at the trial, that, in 1809, he commanded
"The Plantagenet;" but, from the unsettled state of his mind, the command had been given up
to the first lieutenant, and that he was shortly after superseded. This, and the good character
he received, were probably held to excuse the pardon.

I now come to the great case of George III. and Mr. Fawcett. I much regret that WHUNSIDE has
not replied in your pages to my question (Vol. vii., p. 163.), as I could then have commented
upon the facts, and his means of knowing them, with more freedom. I have a private communication
from him, which is ample and candid. He objects to bring his name before the public, and I
have no right to press that point. He is not quite certain as to the convict's name, but can
procure it for me. He would rather that it should not be published, as it might give pain to
a respectable family. Appreciating the objection, and having no use for it except to publish,
I have declined to ask it of him.

The case occurred in 1802 or 1803, when WHUNSIDE was a pupil of Mr. Fawcett. He says:

    "Occasionally Mr. Fawcett used to allow certain portions of a weekly
    newspaper to be read to the boys on a Saturday evening. This case was
    read to us, I think from the Leeds Mercury; and though Mr. Fawcett's
    name was not mentioned, we were all aware who the minister was."

Thus we have no direct evidence of the amount of Mr. Fawcett's communications with George III.
How much of the story as it is now told was read to the boys, we do not know; but that it came
to them first through a weekly paper, is rather against than for it.

We all know the tendency of good stories to pick up additions as they go. I have read that
the first edition of the Life of Loyola was without miracles. This anecdote seems to have reached
its full growth in 1823, in Pearson's Life of W. Hey, Esq., and probably in the two lives of
George III., published after his death, and mentioned by WHUNSIDE. Pearson, as cited in "N.
& Q.," Vol. vi., p. 276., says, that by some means the Essay on Anger had been recommended
to the notice of George III., who would have made the author a bishop had he not been a dissenter;
that he signified his wish to serve Mr. Fawcett, &c. That on the conviction of H----, Mr. Fawcett
wrote to the king; and a letter soon arrived, conveying the welcome intelligence, "You may
rest assured that his life is safe," &c.

It is not stated that this was "private and confidential:" if it was, Mr. Fawcett had no right
to mention it; if it was not, he had no reason for concealing what was so much to his honour,
and so extraordinary as the king's personal interference in a matter invariably left to the
Secretary of State for the Home Department. If, however, Mr. Fawcett was silent from modesty,
his biographers had no inducement to be so; yet, let us see how they state the case. The Account
of the Life, Writings, and Ministry of the late Rev. John Fawcett: London, 1818, cited in "N.
& Q.," Vol. vi., p. 229., says:

    "He was induced, in conjunction with others, to solicit the exercise
    of royal clemency in mitigating the severity of that punishment which
    the law denounces: and it gladdened the sympathetic feelings of his
    heart to know that these petitions were not unavailing; but the modesty
    of his character made him regret the publicity which had been given to
    this subject."

The fifth edition of the Essay on Anger, printed for the Book Society for Promoting Religious
Knowledge, London, no date, has a memoir of the author. The "incident" is said not to have
been circulated in any publication by the family; but "it was one of the secrets which obtain
a wider circulation from the reserve with which one relator invariably retails it to another."
That is exactly my view. Secrecy contributes to diffusion, but not to accuracy. At the risk
of being thought tedious, I must copy the rest of this statement:

    "Soon after the publication of this treatise, the author took an
    opportunity of presenting a copy to our late much revered sovereign;
    whose ear was always accessible to merit, however obscure the
    individual in whom it was found. Contrary to the fate of most
    publications laid at the feet of royalty, it was diligently perused and
    admired; and a communication of this approbation was afterwards made
    known to the author. It happened some time afterwards, a relative of
    one of his friends was convicted of a capital crime, for which he was
    left for execution. Application was instantly made for an extension of
    royal favour in his behalf; and, among others, one was made by Mr.
    Fawcett: and his majesty, no doubt recollecting the pleasure he had
    derived from the perusal of his Essay on Anger, and believing that he
    would not recommend an improper person to royal favour, was most
    graciously pleased to answer the prayer of the petition; but as to
    precisely how far the name of Mr. Fawcett might have contributed to
    this successful application must await the great disclosures of a
    future judgment."

The reader will sift this jumble of inferences and facts, and perhaps will not go so far as
to have "no doubt."

WHUNSIDE tells me, that about 1807 he employed a bookbinder from Halifax; who, on hearing that
he had been a pupil of Mr. Fawcett, said he had seen two copies of the Essay on Anger, most
beautifully bound, to be sent to the king.

The conclusion to which I come is, that Mr. Fawcett sent a copy of the Essay on Anger to the
king; that the receipt of it was acknowledged, possibly in some way more complimentary than
the ordinary circular; that a young man was convicted of forgery; that Mr. Fawcett and others
petitioned for his pardon, and that he was {575} pardoned. All the rest I hold to be mere rumours,
not countenanced by Mr. Fawcett or his family, and not asserted by his biographers.

H. B. C.

U. U. Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

MYTHE VERSUS MYTH.

(Vol. vii., p. 326.)

MR. KEIGHTLEY'S rule is only partially true, and in the part which is true is not fully stated.
The following rules, qualified by the accompanying remarks, will I trust be found substantially
correct.

English monosyllables, formed from Greek or Latin monosyllabic roots,

(1.) When the root ends in a single consonant preceded by a vowel, require the lengthening e.

(2.) When the root ends in a single consonant preceded by a diphthong, or in more than one
consonant preceded by a vowel, reject the e.

1. Examples from the Greek:--[Greek: schêm-a], scheme; [Greek: lur-a] (lyr-a), lyre; [Greek:
zôn-ê] (zon-a), zon-e; [Greek: bas-is], base; [Greek: phras-is], phras-e; [Greek: trop-os],
trop-e. From Latin, ros-a, ros-e; fin-is, fin-e; fum-us, fum-e; pur-us, pur-e; grad-us, grad-e.
Compare, in verbs, ced-o, ced-e.

Remarks.--This rule admits of a modification; e.g. we form from [Greek: zêl-os] zeal (the sound
hardly perceptibly differing from zel-e); from [Greek: hôr-a] (hor-a), hour; from flos (flor-is),
flower and flour (the long sound communicated to the vowel in the other words by the added
e, being in these already contained in the diphthong). Add ven-a, vein; van-us, vain; sol-um,
soil, &c.; and compare -ceed in proceed, succeed, formed from compounds of ced-o. Some, but
not all, of these words have come to us through the French.

2. Examples from the Greek:--[Greek: rheum-a], rheum; [Greek: chasm-a], chasm; [Greek: murr-a],
myrrh; [Greek: glôss-a], gloss; [Greek: numph-ê] (nymph-a), nymph; [Greek: disk-os], (disc-us),
disk; [Greek: plinth-os], plinth; [Greek: psalm-os], psalm. From Latin, fraus (fraud-is), fraud;
laus (laud-is), laud; plant-a, plant; orb-is, orb; plumb-um, plumb; long-us, long, flux-us,
flux; port-us, port. Compare, in verbs, damn-o, damn; err-o, err; add-o, add; vex-o, vex.

Remarks.--From roots ending in the same consonant doubled, our derived words ordinarily drop
one of them; e.g. [Greek: stemm-a], stem; gemm-a, gem; summ-a, sum; penn-a, pen; carr-us, car.
(Note this tendency of our language, by comparing our man with the German mann.)

If the root ends in s or v preceded by a diphthong, or in a consonant +s[5] or +v preceded
by a vowel, our derived words add e, as [Greek: paus-is] (paus-a), paus-e; caus-a, cause-e;
næv-a, nav-e; puls-us, puls-e; dens-us, dens-e; [Greek: haps-is], aps-e; laps-us, laps-e; vers-us,
vers-e; valv-a, valv-e; nerv-us, nerv-e.[6] The cause of this lies in the genius of our language,
which totally rejects the ending v, and uses s (single) very sparingly in the singular number,
except in the ending ous, the genitive case, the third person of the present tense, the obsolete
wis, and was. Other words are, the interjection alas; pronouns or pronominal particles; proper
names, as Thomas, Chaos; compounds, as Lammas, Christmas; plural adverbs, as towards, thereabouts;
and the (perhaps) plural--it ought to be so--alms.[7]

From roots ending in a mute +a liquid, our derived words also end in e, and are then in fact
dissyllables; e.g. [Greek: bibl-os], bible; [Greek: kukl-os], cycl-e; [Greek: mitr-a], mitr-e;
[Greek: nitr-on], nitr-e; [Greek: petr-os], petr-e. In this class of words the final letters
(after the analogy of Latin) have sometimes become transposed; e.g. [Greek: lepr-os], lep-er.
So now-a-days, cent-er as well as centr-e. Compare metr-e, diamet-er.

To apply our rules to the words required to be formed in an English shape from [Greek: muth-os].

Very few words in our language end in th which are not of purely native growth. Frith is questionable
exception. Besides the monosyllable plinth, we have imported from the Greek colocynth, hyacinth,
labyrinth, with the proper names Corinth, Erymanth, all terminating in nth.

In the ending the our language does not rejoice. Most of such words are verbs, so distinguished
from their cognate substantives, as wreathe from wreath. We have, as substantives, lathe (A.-S.
[Saxon: leð]), hythe ([Saxon: hyð]), scythe (more properly sithe, [Saxon: siðe]), tythe ([Saxon:
tyðe]); as adjectives, blithe ([Saxon: bliðe]), lithe ([Saxon: lið]). There may be one or two more.

In all these the sounds is [Saxon: ð] (th in this) not [Saxon: þ] (th in thick). This appears
worth notice.

On the whole, I should venture to say that so uncouth a slip as mythe, when set in our soil,
was unlikely to thrive. Still m[)y]th is objectionable, though we at Cambridge might quote
g[)y]p However I may seem to be a breaker of my own laws, I suggest, if we must have an English
form of the word, that we should write and pronounce m[=y]th. Several words ending in th have
the preceding vowel lengthened, e.g. both, sloth, ruth, truth (though with the inconsistency
attributed to us, one, by the way, generally of orthography rather than pronunciation, we shorten
the diphthong in breath, death). Compare also the sound of the endings ild and ind.

I have already troubled you with a very long Note; but, before I close, allow me to add that
in what I have advanced I have had in view only our modern mode of spelling, without binding
{576} myself to an opinion of its inferiority or superiority to that of our forefathers. I
beg also to protest against MR. KEIGHTLEY'S wish to banish mythical from our vocabulary. It
may be hybrid, but equally so are critical, grammatical, musical, physical, poetical, with
a long string of et ceteras.

CHARLES THIRIOLD.

[Footnote 5: Except x (=cs). Compare flax, wax, ox.]

[Footnote 6: From serv-us (after the French) we form serf.]

[Footnote 7: Rebus, overplus, and surplus may, if not satisfied, take an omnibus, bring their
action at the Nisi Prius, and meet there with a nonplus.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"INQUIRY INTO THE STATE OF THE UNION, BY THE WEDNESDAY CLUB IN FRIDAY STREET."

(Vol. vii., pp. 261. 409.)

This very able and valuable work, as to which your correspondent inquires, was written by Wm.
Paterson, the projector of the Bank of England and the Darien scheme; a great and memorable
name, but which, to the discredit of British biography, will be sought for in vain in Chalmers's
or our other biographical dictionaries. The book above noticed appears to be a continuation
of another tract by the same author, entitled An Inquiry into the Reasonableness and Consequences
of an Union with Scotland, containing a brief Deduction of what hath been done, designed, or
proposed in the Matter of the Union during the last Age, a Scheme of an Union as accommodated
to the present Circumstances of the two Nations, also States of the respective Revenues, Debts,
Weights, Measures, Taxes, and Impositions, and of other Facts of moment: with Observations
thereupon, as communicated to Laurence Philips, Esq., near York: London, printed and sold by
R. Bragg, 1706, 8vo., 160 pages. This was preceded by an earlier tract by the same author:
Conferences on the Public Debts, by the Wednesday's Club in Friday Street: London, 1695, 4to.
The last is noticed, with a short account of the author, by Mr. M^cCulloch (Lib. of Political
Economy, p. 159.), but he has not mentioned the two other works previously adverted to. In
all of them the author adopts the form of a report of the proceedings of a club; but, without
attempting to deny the actual existence of a Wednesday's club in Friday Street (the designation
he assumes for it), nothing can be more clear to any one who reads the three tracts than that
the conversations, proceedings, and personages mentioned are all the creatures of his own fertile
invention, and made use of, more conveniently to bring out his facts, arguments, and statements.
The dramatic form he gives them makes even the dry details of finance amusing; and abounding,
as they do, in information and thought, these works may always be consulted with profit and
pleasure. The Inquiry into the State of the Union, 1717, 8vo., for which Walpole is said to
have furnished some of the materials, was answered, but rather feebly, in an anonymous pamphlet
entitled Wednesday Club Law; or the Injustice, Dishonour, and Ill Policy of breaking into Parliamentary
Contracts for public Debts: London, printed for E. Smith, 1717, 8vo., pp. 38. The author of
this pamphlet appears to have been a Mr. Broome. Those who would wish see one of the financial
questions discussed in the Inquiry treated with equal force and ability, and with similar views,
by a great cotemporary of Paterson, whose pamphlet came out simultaneously, may read Fair Payment
no Spunge; or some Considerations on the Unreasonableness of refusing to receive back Money
lent on public Securities, and the Necessity of setting the Nation free from the unsupportable
Burthen of Debt and Taxes, with a View of the great Advantage and Benefit which will arise
to Trade and to the Landed Interest, as well as to the Poor, by having these heavy Grievances
taken off: London, printed and sold by Brotherton: Meadows and Roberts, 1717, 8vo., pp. 79.
This is one of the pamphlets which, though it has been sometimes erroneously assigned to Paterson,
both on external and internal evidence may be confidently attributed to Defoe, but which has
unaccountably escaped the notice of all his biographers.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNPUBLISHED EPIGRAM BY SIR W. SCOTT (?).

(Vol. vii., p. 498.)

The lines which your correspondent R. VINCENT attributes to Sir Walter Scott are part of an
old English inscription which Longfellow quotes in Outremer, p. 66., and thus describes in a note:

    "I subjoin this relic of old English verse entire.... It is copied from
    a book whose title I have forgotten, and of which I have but a single
    leaf, containing the poem. In describing the antiquities of the church
    of Stratford-upon-Avon, the writer gives the following account of a
    very old painting upon the wall, and of the poem which served as its
    motto. The painting is no longer visible, having been effaced in
    repairing the church:

    "'Against the west wall of the nave, on the south side of the arch, was
    painted the martyrdom of Thomas à Becket, while kneeling at the altar
    of St. Benedict, in Canterbury Cathedral. Below this was the figure of
    an angel, probably St. Michael, supporting a long scroll, upon which
    were seven stanzas in old English, being an allegory of mortality.'"

The lines given at p. 498. of "N. & Q." seem to be taken from the two following stanzas, which
stand third and fourth in the old inscription:

 "Erth apon erth wynnys castellys and towrys,
  Then seth erth unto erth thys ys all owrys.
  When erth apon erth hath bylde hys bowrys,
  Then schall erth for erth suffur many hard schowrys.

 "Erth goth apon erth as man apon mowld,
  Lyke as erth apon erth never goo schold,
  Erth goth apon erth as gelsteryng gold,
  And yet schall erth unto erth rather than he wold."

{577}

Dugdale, in his Antiquities of Warwickshire, p. 517., tells us that John de Stratford, who
was Archbishop of Canterbury in the reign of Edward III., built a chapel on the south side
of the church, "to the honour of God and of St. Thomas the Martyr;" and as at p. 521. he describes
it as "in the south ile of the said church," the west wall of this chapel answers very well
the description of the position of the painting, and inscription. But in The Beauties of England
and Wales, vol. xv. p. 238., the chapel of the gild of the Holy Cross, in the centre of the
town, is mentioned as the place in which the pictures were discovered, during some repairs
which it underwent in the year 1804.

I have since ascertained that the work to which Longfellow refers is Weaver's Account of Stratford-upon-Avon.

ERICA.

As a companion to the unpublished epigram in No. 186. of "N. & Q.," I beg to hand you the following
epitaph, copied by myself about thirty years since, and referring, as I believe, to an old
brass in the church of St. Helen's, London:

 "Here lyeth y^e bodyes of
  James Pomley, y^e sonne of ould
  Dominick Pomley and Jane his
  Wyfe: y^e said James deceased y^e 7^{th}
  day of Januarie Anno Domini 1592
  he beyng of y^e age of 88 years, and
  y^e sayd Jane deceased y^e ---- day
  of ----  D----.

  Earth goeth up[=o] earth as moulde up[=o] moulde;
  Earth goeth up[=o] earth all glittering as golde,
  As though earth to y^e earth never turne shoulde;
  And yet shall earth to y^e earth sooner than he woulde."

WILLIAM WILLIAMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHURCH CATECHISM.

(Vol. vii., pp. 190. 463.)

In accordance with the request of Z. E. R., I have pleasure in forwarding the extracts from
the Catechismus brevis et Catholicus, referred to at pp. 190. 463. of the present volume. It
is needful to premise, 1. That the pages of the catechism are not numbered. This will account
for the absence of precise references. 2. That only so much is quoted as may exhibit the parallelism;
and, 3. That the citations are not consecutive in the original, but arranged in the order of
the questions and answers of the Church Catechism, beginning with the fourteenth question,
"How many sacraments hath Christ ordained in His Church?"

Q. 14. How many, &c.

    "Quot sunt Ecclesiæ Catholicæ Sacramenta?

    Septem sunt in universum," &c.

    "Quis instituit Baptismum?

    Ipse Servator ac Dominus noster Jesus Christus."

    [Similarly of the Eucharist.]

Q. 15. What meanest thou, &c.

    "Ecquur hæc ipsa--et dicantur et sint Sacramenta?

    Sacramenta sunt et dicuntur quia sacra atque efficacia sunt signa
    divinæ erga nos voluntatis."

Q. 16. How many parts, &c.

    "Habetque unumquodque horum (quod sacramentis peculiare est verbum)
    Elementum, et Gratiam invisibilem. Quod verbum nos docet, et promittit
    nobis, hoc Elementum seu visibile signum similitudine quâdam
    demonstrat, hoc idem Gratia quoque (nisi tamen obicem objiciat homo) in
    anima invisibiliter operatur.

    Da paucis singulorum Sacramentorum signa et invisibilem gratiam?"

Q. 17. What is the outward, &c.

    "In Baptismo signum externum Aqua est."

Q. 18. What is the inward, &c.

    "Quid efficit seu prodest Baptismus?

    "Res seu gratia est renovatio et sanctificatio animæ, ablutio omnium
    peccatorum, adoptio baptizati in filium Dei.

    'Baptizatus sum in Nomine Patris et Filii et Spiritus Sancti.'

    "Tinctione illa aquæ, operationeque Spiritus Sancti, eripitur
    baptizatus à regno et tyrannide diaboli, donatur remissione peccatorum
    ac innocentia, addicitur perpetuò uni veroque Deo Patri et Filio et
    Spiritui Sancto, hujus denique filius atque hæres instituitur."

Q. 19. What is required, &c.

    "Requiritur in eo (adulto), et verus fidei usus, et vita professione
    Christiana, Baptismique voto digna: hoc est ut corde credat, et ore
    fidem confiteatur, utque peccatis mortificatis in vitæ ambulet
    novitate.

    Proba sacræ Scripturæ testimoniis, quod Fides in Baptizato requiratur."

Q. 20. Why then are infants, &c.

    "Sed quomodo infantes possunt credere, ut qui nondum usum habeant
    rationis?

    His fides Ecclesiæ et susceptorum suffragatur, donec idonei fiant suo
    illam assensu percipere, adhæc et fidei gratiam in Baptismo ii
    consequuntur."

Q. 21. Why was the Sacrament, &c.

    "Quur vero sacram Eucharistiam Christus instituit?

    ... Ut suæ passionis ac mortis recordemur, eamque annuntiemus
    perpetuò."

Q. 22. What is the outward, &c.

Q. 23. What is the inward, &c.

    "Da paucis ... signa et invisibilem gratiam.

    In Eucharistia, Elementum est panis ac vini species: res autem, verum
    corpus, et verus Christi sanguis est, fructusque dignam sumptionem
    sequentes."

{578}

Q. 24. What are the benefits, &c.

    "Jam recense paucis quinam fructus dignam Eucharistæ sumptionem
    sequantur?

    Principio quidem virtute escæ hujus confirmamur in fide, munimur
    adversus peccata, ad bonorum operum studium excitamur, et ad charitatem
    inflammamur. Hinc vero per eam incorporamur adjungimurque capiti nostro
    Christo, ut unum cum ipso constituamus corpus," &c.

Q. 25. What is required, &c.

    "Quonam pacto dignè sumitur Eucharistia?

    Digna sumptio, omnium primum requirit, ut homo peccata sua agnoscat ex
    animo ob ea verè doleat--ac firmum etiam animo concipiat amplius non
    peccandi propositum. Deinde exigit etiam digna sumptio, ut
    communicaturus simultatem omnem odiumque animo eximat: reconcilietur
    læso, et charitatis contra viscera induat. Postremo vero et fides cum
    primis in sumente requiritur ... ut credat corpus Christi pro se esse
    traditum mortem, et sanguinem ejus in remissionem peccatorum suorum
    vere effusum," &c.

I fear the unavoidable length of the previous extracts will be against the insertion of the
full title of the book, and one remark. The title is,--

    "Catechismus brevis et Catholicus in gratiam Juventutis conscriptus,
    Autore Iacobo Schoeppero, Ecclesiasta Tremoniano. Cui accessit Pium
    diurnarum precum Enchiridion, ex quo pueri toto die cum Deo colloqui
    discant. Antverpiæ, apud Ioan. Bellerum ad insigne Falconis, 1555."

My remark is, that some of the coincidences above enumerated are at least singular, though
they do not perhaps prove that the compiler of the Church Catechism, in the places referred
to, had them before him.

B. H. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

JACOB BOBART, ETC.

(Vol. vii., p. 428.)

Of old Jacob Bobart, who originally came from Brunswick, Granger (Biog. Hist., vol. v. p. 287.,
edit. 1824) gives us the following account:

    "Jacob Bobart, a German, whom Plot styles 'an excellent gardener and
    botanist,' was, by the Earl of Danby, founder of the physic-garden at
    Oxford, appointed the first keeper of it. He was author of Catalogus
    Plantarum Horti Medici Oxoniensis, scil. Latino-Anglicus et
    Anglico-Latinus: Oxon. 1648, 8vo. One singularity I have heard of him
    from a gentleman of unquestionable veracity, that on rejoicing days he
    used to have his beard tagged with silver. The same gentleman informed
    me, that there is a portrait of him in the possession of one of the
    corporation at Woodstock. He died the 4th of February, 1679, in the
    eighty-first year of his age. He had two sons, Tillemant and Jacob, who
    both belonged to the physic-garden. It appears that the latter
    succeeded him in his office."

There is a very fine print of the elder Bobart, now extremely scarce, "D. Loggan del., M. Burghers,
sculp." It is a quarto of the largest size.

In John Evelyn's Diary, under the date Oct. 24, 1664, is the following entry:

    "Next to Wadham, and the physic garden, where were two large
    locust-trees, and as many platani (plane-trees), and some rare plants
    under the culture of old Bobart."

The editor of the last edition, after repeating part of Granger's note, and mentioning the
portrait, adds:

    "There is a small whole-length in the frontispiece of Vertumnus, a
    poem on that garden. In this he is dressed in a long vest, with a
    beard. One of his family was bred up at college in Oxford; but quitted
    his studies for the profession of the whip, driving one of the Oxford
    coaches (his own property) for many years with great credit. In 1813 he
    broke his leg by an accident; and in 1814, from the respect he had
    acquired by his good conduct, he was appointed by the University to the
    place of one of the Esquire Beadles."

Vertumnus, the poem mentioned in the above note, was addressed to Mr. Jacob Bobart, in 1713,
by Dr. Evans. It is a laudatory epistle on the botanical knowledge of the Bobarts; and we learn
from it that Jacob, the younger, collected a Hortus Siccus (a collection of plants pasted upon
paper, and kept dry in a book) in twenty volumes.

 "Thy Hortus Siccus ...
  In tomes twice ten, that world immense!
  By thee compiled at vast expense."

The broadsides about which H. T. BOBART inquires are of the greatest possible rarity. They
were the production of Edmund Gayton, the author of Festivious Notes on Don Quixote, &c. Copies
may be seen in the Ashmolean Library, under the press-marks Nos. 423. and 438., but I think
not in any other repository of a like nature.

