Podb. They take to it like birds. And--curious thing--after he'd tried it a month, all the
cows turned yellow and went about chirping and twittering and hopping. Fact, I assure you!

The Curate. Dear me--I should scarcely have--

    [He gradually comes to the conclusion that he is being
    trifled with, and after a few moments of uncomfortable
    silence, gets up and quits the room with dignity.

Podb. (to himself). One of 'em gone! Now if I can only clear these old tabbies out, I can tackle
CULCHARD. (Aloud, to Chaplain's Wife.) You don't happen to know if there's a good doctor here,
I suppose? A lady was saying in the Musik-saal--the lady with the three daughters who came
this afternoon--that she was afraid they were in for bad feverish colds or something, and asking
who there was to call in.

The C.'s W. Oh, I've no belief in foreign doctors. I always find a few drops of aconite or
pulsatilla,--I have my homoeopathic case with me now. Perhaps, if I went and had a talk with
her I could--[She goes out energetically.

Podb. Another gone! (To the Old Maids.) So you ain't going down to the Cloisters to-night?
I'm told there's to be some fun there--Hide-and-seek, or something--first-rate place for it,
especially now the moon's up!

First Old Maid. Nobody told us a word about it. Hide-and-seek--and in those quaint old Cloisters
too--It sounds delightful! What do you say, TABITHA. Shall we just--? Only to look on, you
know. We needn't play, unless--

    [The Two Old Maids withdraw in a pleased flutter. PODBURY
    crosses to CULCHARD.

Podb. (with determination). Look here, CULCHARD, I'd just like to know what you mean by the
way you're going on.

Culch. I thought we were both agreed that discussions of this kind--

Podb. It's all bosh our travelling together if we're not to have any discussions. You've been
on the sulk long enough. And I'll thank you to inform me what you're after here, going about
alone with Miss PRENDERGAST like this, in the Museum with her all the morning, and on the lake
again this afternoon,--it won't do, you know!

Culch. If she happens to prefer my society to yours and her brother's, I presume you have no
claim to interfere.

Podb. I don't know about that. How about Miss TROTTER?

Culch. If I remember rightly, you yourself were not insensible to Miss TROTTER's--er--attractions?

Podb. Perhaps not; but I am not engaged to her--you are. You told me so in the train.

Culch. You entirely misunderstood me. There was no definite understanding between us--nothing
of the sort or kind. In fact, it was merely a passing caprice. Since I have had the privilege
of knowing Miss PRENDERGAST, I see clearly--

Podb. Then you mean to propose to her, eh?

Culch. That is certainly my intention; have you any objection to offer?

Podb. Only that I mean to propose too. I daresay my chances are as good as yours--even now.

Culch. I doubt it, my dear fellow; however, don't let me discourage you.

Podb. I don't intend to. (The figure of Miss PRENDERGAST is seen to pass the glazed doors,
and move slowly across the Musik-saal; both rush to the door, and look after her.) She's gone
out into the balcony. 'Jove, I'll go, too, and get it over!

Culch. I should not advise you to do so. It is possible she may have gone there with the--er--expectation
of being joined by--by somebody else. [He smiles complacently.

Podb. You mean she gave you a rendezvous there? I don't believe it!

Culch. I did not say so. But I am not prepared to deny that I have been waiting here with some
such expectation.

Podb. (holding the door). If you go, I go too--that's all.

Culch. Don't be absurd. You will only be de trop, I assure you.

Podb. De trop or not, I mean going--she shall choose between us.

Culch. (turning pale). I suppose you intend to enlighten her as to my--er--little flirtation
(before I knew her) with Miss TROTTER? Do it, PODBURY, do it--if you think you'll gain any
good by it!

Podb. Telling tales is not exactly in my line. But you don't go on that balcony without me--that's
all.

Culch. Well, listen to reason, my dear fellow. What you propose is ridiculous. I--I don't mind
conceding this: we'll each go, and--er tit up, as you call it, which goes first.

Podb. Done with you! (Produces a mark.) Sudden death. You're Eagle--I'm the other Johnny. (Tosses.)
Eagle! Confound you! But I mean to have my innings all the same.

Culch. You're perfectly welcome--when I've had mine. I'll--er--wish you good evening.

    [He stalks out triumphantly. PODBURY places himself in a
    position from which he can command a view of the Musik-saal,
    over the top of "über Land und Meer," and awaits results.

       *       *       *       *       *

STORICULES.

VI.--BUDWELL'S REVENGE.

My friend, THOMAS GIDLING, is something indefinite and authoritative in the Post Office. He
is a practical man. He can do fretwork, cook a steak, clean boots, find out what's wrong with
the gas, and understand Waterloo Station; in an emergency he is invaluable. This is just as
well, because destiny has decided that the life of THOMAS GIDLING shall be a series of emergencies.
He has comfortable bachelor quarters at the very top of Parkington Chambers, which are situated
in Bloomsbury.

One night last winter I had been dining with GIDLING at his Club; after dinner he proposed
that we should go round to his flat for a talk and a smoke. GIDLING, being practical, can make
coffee, which is a thing that they cannot do at GIDLING's Club, nor, indeed, at many others.
So I consented.

We had climbed painfully to the top of Parkington Chambers, and had just got inside GIDLING's
outer door, when we noticed a very marked and curious smell. "There's something wrong about
this," remarked GIDLING, severely. I agreed with him, adding, out of a nervous politeness,
from which I suffer sometimes, that I rather liked the smell, "Then you're an idiot," said
GIDLING, who never suffers from politeness at all. He opened the door of his sitting-room,
and then we saw at once what was the matter. The lower part of the chimney was on fire; the
fire-place was covered with glowing masses of soot which had fallen. "HANKIN's had another
nasty touch of that influenza," remarked GIDLING. HANKIN is GIDLING's servant, and at regular
intervals becomes incapacitated for work. HANKIN himself says that it is influenza, and speaks
of "another of them relapses;" GIDLING thinks that it is as a rule intoxication. As a matter
of fact HANKIN would not be a bad servant if his zeal was distributed over him rather more
evenly. It is always either excessive or defective. It comes out in lumps. In neglecting to
have the chimney swept HANKIN had shown defect; in the way that he had piled up the fire he
had shown excess. In subsequently absenting himself from the flat he had shown a certain amount
of wisdom, for GIDLING was rather angry.

"Not but what I can put it all right," said GIDLING. "I'm a practical man. Fire Brigade? I
thought you'd suggest a few fire brigades. No, not exactly. I'll show you how to stop a thing
of this kind." He went into his bed-room, and returned with the water-jug. An iron ladder from
the main staircase led through a trap-door in the roof. GIDLING went up this ladder with the
water-jug, while I waited to see the result in the sitting-room, I could hear him walking about
on the roof, and I looked out for a deluge of water to descend down the chimney into the fire-place.
But no deluge came. Presently GIDLING descended and entered the room with the empty water-jug.

"Did it splash much?" he asked. "No, there was no water came down at all."

"Oh? Then I've emptied this water-jug down the wrong chimney. We'd better clear out of this."

At this juncture HANKIN returned, and GIDLING said a good deal to him. HANKIN was left to put
out the fire, and we went back again to the Club. GIDLING seemed rather annoyed with me for
laughing about his mistake.

"It's a deuced awkward thing," he said. "That water went down somebody's chimney, and it's
put somebody's fire out. That means unpleasantness, you know, if he or she finds out who did it."

"Who live in the flats below yours?" I asked.

"An Art-student and her mother in the flat below mine--they are really most charming people,
and I hope to goodness it wasn't their chimney that I poured the water down. I'm on rather
friendly terms with them. Then on the first floor there's BUDWELL. He's a conceited affected
ape. I only hope it was he who got the benefit of that water-jug. It's rather amusing, you
know. BUDWELL's very much in love with Miss VANE (that's the Art-student), and she loathes
him--at least I believe so. Poor beggar!" GIDLING laughed, sarcastically. "Yes, I hope that
was BUDWELL's chimney, not the other."

It turned out afterwards that it was BUDWELL's chimney, and he found out that it was GIDLING
who had done the deed. So BUDWELL determined on revenge. He climbed up on to the roof with
a large bath-can of water, intending to empty it down GIDLING's chimney. Chimneys ought to
be labelled. The whole of the contents of that can descended into Mrs. VANE's fireplace. BUDWELL
called and apologised, but it was of no use. They considered it mean of BUDWELL to take revenge
for what was only a mistake on GIDLING's part; and they were not very well pleased at having
their own fire put out. "A chimney's not the place for a cataract, you know, Mr. BUDWELL,"
said Miss VANE.

BUDWELL went back to his own flat and brooded over his misfortunes. He had now grown still
more angry with GIDLING, which was irrational of him; and he determined to take a still fiercer
revenge. Late at night he conveyed the bath-can and several jugs, all full of water, on to
the roof. There was no fear of his selecting Mrs. VANE's chimney by mistake this time. One
by one he emptied the jugs and the water-can, and then descended to his own flat, fiendishly
triumphant, as he thought of the havoc he must have made in GIDLING's fire-place.

But when he got to his own flat, he found that he had emptied all that water down his own chimney.

After that he gave up his revenges, together with his affections and his apartments. But GIDLING
tells the story with considerable unction; the facts of it were partly derived from BUDWELL's
servant and partly from Miss VANE--with whom GIDLING is beginning to be on more than friendly
terms.

       *       *       *       *       *

INTERNATIONAL NURSERY-TALE CONGRESS.

The Chair was taken by Mr. JOHN HORNER, P.R.I.N.T.C., lineal descendant of the celebrated "Jack"
of that ilk.

The President said he had no desire to waste the meeting's valuable time. He would at once
address himself (and the company present) to the myth, if myth it could be called, which had
immortalised his own name. Need he say he alluded to the legend of "Little Jack Horner"? (Cheers.)
Some commentators are of opinion that "HORNER." was a typographical error for "HOMER." But
the prefix; and the epithet combined to militate against this ingenious and plausible, but
specious, theory. "HOMER" was not in any sense "Little," nor was his Pagan name "JACK." Again,
"Corner," in the second line, could not in any language have ever rhymed with "HOMER." He knew
that "Cromer" furnished them with a rhyme for "HOMER;" but if this were accepted, what became
of the ancient Greek, of the Syriac, of the Phoenician, of the Nimrodic legends, nay, of the
very Iliad itself, if "HOMER" were a native of "Cromer"? (Loud and prolonged cheers.) No! "Jack
Horner," or, as it was originally written, "Jakorna," was of Scandinavian origin, and it was,
in all probability, a mythmic rhyth--No, beg pardon, he should say a rhythmic myth (Cheers)
sung by a wandering Sam Oar Troupe on their visiting Egypt and the Provinces before the time
of the Celtic-Phoenician O'SIRIS, or at least before the reign of RAMESES THE FIRST, ancestor
of the great Scotch RAMSEY family--(Cheers)--at one of the social entertainments given on a
non-hunting day by that eminent sportsman NIMROD. Then came the question of where was "the
corner" in which Jakorna secluded himself? Of course, Christmas, as differentiating this pie
from all others, was a modern substitution. The original word was probably "Kosmik." (The lecture
was still proceeding when our Reporter left, the dryness of the subject having unfortunately
affected his throat.)

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"WHAT WILL HE DO WITH IT?"

    ["The 'tehorni narod'--the inconceivably ill-used, patient,
    long-suffering 'black people,' as the moujiks of White
    Russia are grimly denominated by their rulers--are dying by
    thousands, of sheer starvation, without a hand being stretched
    out by the 'Tchin' to rescue them from the greedy jaws of
    Death."--Daily Telegraph.

    The moujiks are remonstrating and even rebelling in
    consequence.]

  "Little Father," we have suffered long, and  sorrowed,
    We the "children" of the wonderful White Tsar,
  Steadfast patience from staunch loyalty have borrowed,
    Slaved for Slavdom still in Peace, and died in War;
  We have borne the yoke of power, and its abuses,
    We have trusted cells and shackles served their turn;
  Nay, that e'en the ruthless knout had noble uses;
      Now we starve--and think--and burn.

  "Little Father," is your power then so paternal
    As in pious proclamation is set forth?
  If the round earth bears a brand of the infernal,
    Does the trail of it not taint our native North?
  Ay, we love it as in truth we've ever loved it.
    Our devotion, poorly paid, is firm and strong;
  Have our little pitied miseries not proved it,
      And our weary tale of wrong?

  "Little Father," we are hungering now, neglected,
    While the foreigner shouts praises in our ports;
  We are honoured, say your scribes, loved, feared, respected,
    The proud Frank, we fought for you, your friendship courts.
  The golden price of it you hug most gladly.
    Well, that price, what is its destined end and aim?
  The indulgence of ambitions cherished madly?
      The pursuit of warrior fame?

  Your realm is ever widening, Tsar, and lengthening,
    Though its peoples--your dear children--prosper not;
  Railways stretching, boundaries creeping, legions strengthening!
    And the end, O Tsar, is--where?--the purpose--what?
  The Afghan, Tartar, Turk feel your advancing,
    The Persian and the Mongol hear your tread,
  And an eager watchful eye is eastward glancing
      Where the Lion lifts his head.

  And your children, "Little Father"? They are lying
    In their thousands at your threshold, waiting death.
  Gold you gather whilst your foodless thralls are dying!
    Is appeal, oh Great White Tsar, but wasted breath?
  On armaments aggressive are you spending
    What might solace the "black people" midst their dead?
  Of the millions the effusive Frank is lending
      Is there nothing left for bread?

       *       *       *       *       *

BOUILLABAISSE.

    [There has been some correspondence lately about
    Bouillabaisse, and a writer in the Evening News (who
    misquotes THACKERAY) actually gives a recipe without oil!]

  Our THACKERAY in ancient days,
    Wrote of a very famous dish,
  And said in stanzas in its praise,
    'Twas made of several kinds of fish.
  A savoury stew it is indeed,
    And he's "in comfortable case"
  Who finds before him at his need
    A smoking dish of Bouillabaisse.

  And now folks laud that dish again,
    And o'er it raise a pretty coil,
  While one rash man we see with pain,
    Would dare to make it minus oil.
  Oh! shade of TERRÉ, you no doubt
    Would make once more the "droll grimace,"
  At such a savage, who left out
    The olive oil, in Bouillabaisse.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THOUGHT-WAVES." (By an Un-Esoteric.)--The Theosophists talk mistily about "the concentration
of mind-force on a thought-wave"--which seems only another way of saying that such minds are,
at the time, "quite at sea."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MONEY MAKES THE MAN.

    (A Fragment from a Romance dedicated by Mr. Punch to Mr.
    Diggle.)

"It is entirely your own fault," said the intruder, as he put another silver tea-pot in his bag.

"I don't see that at all," replied the master of the house, moving uneasily in his chair.

"Well, I have not time to argue with you," returned the other, as he held up an enamelled ship
of beautiful workmanship. "Dear me, this is really very fine. I have never seen anything like
it before! What is it?"

"I got it at a sale in Derbyshire. I fancy it must be something like the old Battersea enamel."

"Very fine! And solid silver, too! Well, in all my experience, and I have been in the profession
some twenty years, I have seen nothing like it. Beautiful! Lovely!"

"If you had not tied my hands behind my back," explained the master of the house, "I could
show you, by lifting that lid, you would see prettier subjects in the interior of the vessel."

"You certainly tempt me," answered the intruder, "to give you an increased facility in moving.
But it is against my rules. I always work in a methodical manner, and one of my regulations
is, before I open the safe, I must bind the master of the house hand and foot in an arm-chair.
But what were we talking about?"

"You were saying," returned the other, with a sigh, "that it was my own fault that I find myself
in this painful, this ruinous position. As a man of education I cannot see how you can advance
such a proposition."

"But that's the point. I am not a man of education. I don't know how to play the piano, and
can scarcely manage a free-hand sketch of a cathedral. My Greek is shaky, and I speak French
and German with an accent enough to drive a linguist mad. No, no, you take my word for it--this
little incident would never have happened had you behaved wisely, and like a public-spirited
citizen."

"What do you mean?" asked the householder.

"Why, this, that if you had paid more to the School Board, I would have received a better education,
and have never been a housebreaker. As it is, I am only making up the difference between the
sum you have paid, and the sum you should have expended."

And the burglar, helping himself to another silver tea-pot, continued his lucrative work.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUSIC OF THE SPHERES.

  The "true sphere of woman"--so HARRISON says--
  In effect--is the family circle. Some praise;
  But to geometricians it strange may appear,
  For a "circle" is only a part of a "sphere."
  Since woman appeared at the wickets, some think
  (Though male cricketers from the conclusion may shrink),
  That the true "sphere" of woman must be, after all,
  A leathern one--typed by a new cricket-ball.
  Young girls think a "Ball" of another guess sort
  Is the sphere in which woman may find truest sport.
  To harmonise all these opinions, 'tis clear,
  Is hard; but, whatever be woman's true sphere,
  Whether found in the dictum of "Positive" HARRISON,
  And what ladies call his "degrading comparison,"
  Or otherwhere,--this will be certainly found,
  If you'll let angry women alone they'll "come round."

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE MAN FOR THE POST."--Sir JAMES FERGUSSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

TALK FOR TRAVELLERS.

    ["The German officials at the frontier, since the relaxation
    of the passport regulations, have been ordered to treat
    foreign passengers with every politeness."--Daily Papers.]

Mein Herr, will you do us the honour to descend from the railway-carriage? It will be merely
a matter of form. We need not disturb those gracious ladies, your wife and daughters.

This is the best way to the Customs. You will notice that we have swept the path that leads
to the door.

Certainly, these arm-chairs are for the use of passengers. We have placed them there ourselves,
and can recommend them.

Is it asking too great a favour to beg you to lend me the keys of your boxes? A hundred thousand
thanks.

Your explanation is absolutely satisfactory. You are bringing these sixteen unopened boxes
of cigars home for your grandmother. It is a most proper thing to do, and, under the circumstances,
the duty will be remitted.

And these three hundred yards of lace of various makes and ages? An heir-loom! Indeed! Then,
of course, the packet must pass duty-free.

As we have found nothing of consequence in this portmanteau of yours, it will be unnecessary
to search the nineteen boxes of that gracious lady, your wife. No doubt she has obeyed your
instruction not to smuggle. We are absolutely satisfied with your explanations, and are greatly
obliged to you for your kindness and condescension.

This is the way to the carriage. We have placed steps before the door, as without a platform
it is difficult to ascend.

No, Mein Herr, it is utterly impossible! We are forbidden by the EMPEROR himself to accept
a gratuity.

Yes, Madam, it is indeed without charge. Do not tempt us. Instant dismissal is the penalty.

Certainly, Mein Herr, you could get the same politeness before the EMPEROR issued his Imperial
instructions.

But then the charge was a thaler!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT TWIN BRETHREN.

    ["I do not wish to call Mr. GLADSTONE by a name which would
    be both tasteless and pointless."--Mr. A.V. Dicey's Letter to
    the Times.]

  Tasteless and pointless, DICEY? Well, the time is out of joint,
  And you were born to set it right, though not with "taste" and "point."
  We cannot all do all things, Sir, and if you save the State
  (As the great Twin Brethren mean to in despite of HARCOURT's hate),
  What does it matter, DICEY, if your letters are not quite
  In that style epistolary, which our fathers called "polite"?
  'Tis a little too meticulous--in you--and rather late,
  After giving Mr. GLADSTONE such a wholesome slashing "slate."
  Take heart of grace, dear DICEY, and don't let Sir WILLIAM's "point"
  In your tough (if tasteless) armour find a vulnerable joint.
  "Old Timbertoes" won't trouble, Sir, to wish that you were dead,
  And his taste (not point) forbids him to call you "Old Wooden-head!"

       *       *       *       *       *

KEEP WATCH!

    [A Visitor fishing off Deal Pier brought up a gold watch
    and chain on his hook. It is supposed to be one lost by a
    resident, but the lucky angler has not been seen since.]

  Paradoxical portent! Most worthy of rhyme
  Is this fortunate angler who tried to kill time.
  Fate made him the offer, and, wisely, he book'd it;
  He not only killed time, but he caught it,--and "hook'd it."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BOULANGER.

  So high he floated, that he seemed to climb;
  The bladder blown by chance was burst by time.
  Falsely-earned fame fools bolstered at the urns;
  The mob which reared the god the idol burns.
  To cling one moment nigh to power's crest,
  Then, earthward flung, sink to oblivion's rest
  Self-sought, 'midst careless acquiescence, seems
  Strange fate, e'en for a thing of schemes and dreams;
  But CÆSAR's simulacrum, seen by day,
  Scarce envious CASCA's self would stoop to slay,
  And mounting mediocrity, once o'erthrown,
  Need fear--or hope--no dagger save its own.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM BRIGHT TO DULL.--In an interesting article on artificial reproductions of Nature's treasures,
the Standard remarked that "Real diamonds have been turned out of the chemist's retorts." What
a brilliant chemist he must have been! Probably of Hibernian origin, as among conversational
sparklers there are few on record more brilliant than "Irish Diamonds." Stay, though! If the
real diamonds were "turned out of the chemist's retorts," then his retorts, without these flashes
of brilliancy, must have been a trifle dull, and he is no longer the chemist we took him for.
"But," to quote our KIPLING, "that is another story."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW EVANGEL.

    [M. ZOLA, in his new Novel, glorifies War, and the
    regenerative mission of human bloodshed.]

  "ZOLA on War," intensifies the "Hola!"
  Of purists who are all for "war on ZOLA!"
  Well, he whose pen is touched with tints from Tophet,
  Is the right man to pose as Red War's Prophet!

       *       *       *       *       *

A TRIFLE FOR THE BUILDER.--"When are houses like difficulties?" And the practical man replies,
"When they have to be 'faced.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

"Respected ANDREW LANG," writes the Baron's Assistant Reader, "I have read your criticism in
Longman's Magazine upon Mr. BARRY PAIN's In a Canadian Canoe. It's an ugly piece of bludgeon
work, I admit, but not convincing to anyone who has read the book of which you speak. You tear
away a line or two from the context, and ask your readers to say if that is wit or humour.
How your admirers would have protested had any sacrilegious critic ventured to treat one of
your own immortal works in this manner. Essays in Little, a book which, by the way, appeared
in the same series for which Mr. BARRY PAIN wrote, is a pleasant and inoffensive compilation,
but even Essays in Little would have presented a sorry appearance if, let us say, ANDREW LANG
had reviewed it in this perfunctory and extractory and arbitrary fashion. I remember that in
that case the critics were respectfully enthusiastic. Even Mr. BLUDYER would have doffed his
cap, I fancy, to one

  Who rhymes, researches and reviews,
  Who sometimes writes like Genesis,
  And sometimes in the Daily News.

