"Not that that fact will whitewash me in your eyes; not that I wasn't working for myself, too,
and not that I'm trying to make more excuses by explaining this. But I'd like you to understand,
at least for the sake of your own pride, that you haven't been cheated into loving and living
with a common thief. Does that make it hurt less?"

"No," she said in a strange tone which made her voice sound like that of an old woman. "That
doesn't make it hurt less. It makes no difference. I think nothing can ever make any difference.
My life is--over."

"Don't, for God's sake, say that! Don't force me to feel a murderer!" he cried out, sharply.

"There's nothing else to say. I wish I could die to-night."

"If one of us is to die," he said, "let it be me. If you hadn't happened to see me and call
me in when I was under the trees bidding good-bye to your window, by this time I might have
found a way out of the difficulty without any scandal or trouble to you whatever. No one would
have known that it wasn't an accident----"

"I should have known."

"But if you had, it would have been a relief----"

"No. Because I--I hadn't heard the truth. I didn't understand at all. I thought you had done
one unscrupulous thing. I didn't dream your whole life was--what it is. I loved you as much
as ever. It would have broken my heart if you----"

"But now that you don't love me, it wouldn't break your heart."

"I don't seem to have any heart," Annesley sighed. "It feels as if it had crumbled to dust.
But it would break my life if you ended yours. If anything could be worse than what is, it
would be that."

"Very well, you can rid yourself of me in another way," the man answered. "You can denounce
me--give me up to 'justice.' If you hand over the Malindore diamond to Ruthven Smith and tell
him how you got it----"

"You must know I wouldn't do that!"

"Why not?"

"Because I--couldn't."

"It needn't spoil your life. No one could blame you. I would tell the story of how I deceived
you. You could free yourself--get a divorce----"

"Don't!" the girl cut him short. "I'm not thinking of myself. I'm thinking of you. I can't
love you again, and I wouldn't if I could, now that I--know. You're a different man. The one
I loved doesn't exist and never did; yet you've told me your secret, and I'm bound to keep
it. I don't need to stop and reflect about that. But as for what's to become of me, and how
we're to manage not to let people guess that everything's changed, I don't know! I must think.
I must think all to-night, until to-morrow. Perhaps by that time I can decide. Now--I beg of
you to go and leave me--this moment. I can't bear any more and live."

He stood looking at her, but she turned her head away with a petulant gesture of repulsion;
and lest her eyes might feel the call of his she covered them with her hands. Her hopelessness,
her loathing of him enclosed her like a wall of ice.

"So! The dream's over!" he said. "'This woman to this man'! What a farce--what a tragedy!"

When she looked up again he had gone and the door between their rooms was shut.

The moon no longer lit the high window. With Knight's going darkness fell.

CHAPTER XX

THE PLAN

Annesley sat as Knight had left her for a long time--minutes, perhaps, or hours. But at last
she was very tired and very cold, so tired that she threw herself weakly on the bed, in her
dressing-gown, because she couldn't sit up. All through the rest of the dark hours she lay
shivering, and did not even trouble to roll herself in the warm down coverlet spread lightly
over the bed.

It seemed right, somehow, that she should be cold and miserable physically. She did not care
or wish to be comfortable.

Over and over again she asked herself: "What shall I do? What is to become of me--of both of
us?" She tried to pray, but her heart was too hard toward the man who had trampled on her life
and love for his own cruel purposes. It seemed to her that God would not hear a prayer sent
up in such a mood; yet she did not want to soften her heart toward the sinner.

Because it had been so full of forgiveness before he poisoned the chalice with the bitter stream
of confession, it was the more impossible to forgive now. It even seemed to Annesley that it
would be monstrous to forgive, in the ordinary, human sense of the word, a man who was a living
lie.

If there were room for thanksgiving in her wretchedness, it lay in the fact that her love had
died a swift and sudden death. Had she gone on loving in spite of all, such love, she thought,
must have brought death into her soul.

She did not know how to name her husband now. Even in thinking of him she would not call him
"Knight."

What a mockery the name had been! How he must have laughed to know that she was fool enough
to believe him a knight of chivalry, who had come like St. George to rescue her from the dragon!

She knew at last that the name he had not wished her to see in the parish register was Michael
Donaldson. That meant, she supposed, that her name was Donaldson, too; a name he had dragged
through the mire.

He pretended to love her. But such a man could not speak the truth. He had tried to excuse
himself in every way. To talk of love and its purifying influence was only one of these ways.
He would not even have confessed if he had not fallen into the mistake of thinking she understood
that he was a thief, or head of a gang of thieves.

He seemed almost to boast of what he was.... Oh, how horrible life had become, and how she
wished that it were over! She wondered if it would be wicked to pray that her heart might stop
beating to-night.

Yet morning came and her heart beat on. She did not even feel very ill, only weak, with a wiry
throbbing of each separate nerve in her head. She had meant to use the quiet hours to decide
what must be done next, but always, when she had tried to pin her mind to the question, it
had escaped like a fluttering moth, and turned to self-pity, or to calling up pictures of the
past which brought tears to her eyes.

Now the time was upon her when realities must be faced. Before seven o'clock it was light,
but neither she nor Knight were accustomed to early tea, and there was more than an hour to
spare before they would be called by Parker.

The girl sat up shivering, though the room, heated by steam, had not grown bitterly cold when
the grate fire died. She looked, heavy-eyed, toward her husband's closed door. They must talk
things over, and make some plan.

She hated the very word "plan" since his story of the trick he had played at the Savoy. She
hated the necessity to talk with him; but it was a necessity. They ought to arrange something
for the future--the blank and hateful future--before Parker came, and daily life began. There
would be many things to settle, questions to ask and answer; a sort of hideous campaign would
have to be mapped out in details not one of which defined itself clearly in her tired brain.

"It's no use," she said to herself. "I can't think, after all, until I see him again. Perhaps
he will make some suggestions, and I can accept or refuse. But I can't go to his door and call
him."

As she hesitated, Knight--who was a knight no longer in her eyes--opened the door, very softly,
not to disturb her if she slept. In the morning light which paled the uncurtained window their
eyes met.

Annesley slipped off the bed and stood up, cloaking her bare white neck with her hair. Suddenly
she felt that he was a strange man who had no right to be in her room. He was not the husband
she had loved with a beautiful and sacred love.

"I won't come if you'd rather I didn't," he said. "I only looked in to see if you were awake.
I thought if you were, and if you could stand it, it would be best to--talk about what's to
be done." He spoke quietly, standing at the door. He was dressed for the day, as if nothing
had happened; and Annesley felt dimly resentful because he looked bathed and well-groomed,
his black hair smooth and carefully brushed; altogether his usual self, except that he was
pale and grave.

"You had better come in, I suppose," the girl replied, grudgingly. "I was thinking, too, that
we must talk. Let us--get it over."

"You haven't been to bed, I see," he said, his eyes lingering on her sadly. It flashed through
Annesley's mind that it was as if he were looking for the last time at the sweetness and happiness
of life. But her heart did not soften. It was his fault that there was no longer any happiness
or sweetness left in their lives.

"No, I haven't been to bed," she returned. "But it doesn't matter. I am not ill. Please let
us not waste time in discussing me. There are other things."

"Yes, there are other things," he agreed. "But we'll not begin to talk of them until you have
got into bed and covered yourself up. You're as white as marble."

"I don't want----" she began; but he cut her short.

"What will Parker think if she finds your bed hasn't been slept in?"

"Oh, very well!" Annesley assented, impatiently. "I must get used to tricks!"

"Perhaps not," said Knight. "I've been thinking of ways and means. Have you? Because if there's
anything you feel you would like to do, you've only to tell me."

"I haven't been able to think," she confessed.

"Well, then, I'll tell you what I've thought."

Annesley had now crept into bed; and before she could protest Knight had carefully covered
her with the down quilt. Having done this, he drew a chair near, yet not too near, and sat
down. It was as if he recognized her right to keep him at a distance.

"You said last night," he began, "that you didn't mean to denounce me. If you've changed your
mind, I shan't blame you; I deserve it. All I ask is that you grant me time to warn certain
persons who would go down if I went down, and give them time to make a bolt. Madalena de Santiago
is one. I'm pretty sure that out of spite she put Ruthven Smith on to looking for the diamond,
but I don't want to punish her. Evidently she--or whoever it was--didn't have much information
to give, or the man wouldn't have backed down and apologized. I should like to find out exactly
what he had to go upon. But if you've changed your mind, it's not worth while to bother about
that----"

"I have not changed my mind," Annesley said.

"You are very good, a very noble woman. If I were the only one to suffer by being denounced,
I don't think I'd care much, as things have turned out. But there are others. And above all,
there's you. You could patch up your life, but you'd have to suffer more or less if I were
dragged over the coals. And so, taking everything together, I'm thankful to accept your generosity.

"We'll call that settled. I don't think Ruthven Smith has any suspicion. We'll see about that
later. Meanwhile, he doesn't count. And Madalena at her worst I can manage. There's nothing
to be feared. But the question is, how are we two to go on?"

"You must--whatever else we decide--you must give up----" the girl stammered from her pillows,
and could not bring herself to finish.

"That goes without saying, doesn't it? In any case, there was only to be one more coup. I'd
warned everybody concerned of my decision as to that."

"One more? How terrible! Not--here?"

"Yes, if you must have that, too; it was to be here. It was to be a big thing. But there's
time to stop it."

Annesley buried her head with a stifled moan.

"It wouldn't have hurt any of the people. Only family heirlooms again--everything insured.
And as for the insurance companies, if you worry over them, it's part of the game. They're
wallowing in money ... But I'll call the thing off. And that's the end for me. I'm not rich--not
the millionaire I pose for; still, I've earned something. My 'Napoleon' has paid me well, and
I've had a share now and then of some good things. There's enough to make you comfortable----"

"Do you think I'd take a penny of such money?" the girl cried, sick with indignation.

"I've worked for it," Knight said, with a kind of unhappy defiance, "and it was come by as
honestly as a lot of fortunes made on the stock market. You must have money----"

"I can earn some, as I did before."

"No, never as you did before! Besides, I thought you'd decided on having no open break between
us, no scandal. Or wasn't that what you meant?"

"It was. But--I don't see yet how it can be managed. Do you?"

"The way I had in my mind was, since I've lost your love--oh, I'm not complaining!--the way
I had in my mind was to leave you over here with plenty of money, and be suddenly called to
America on business. Then, if it would hurt your feelings to have me put myself out of the
way, it needn't hurt them for something to seem to happen. Nelson Smith could be wiped off
the map; and if you weren't free to marry somebody else, at least you'd be free of me.

"But if you won't take my money that plan will not work. You can hate me as much as you like,
but I'm not going to leave you alone in the world without a penny. Neither you nor any one
can force me to that.... I've thought of another thing, though, since we began to talk. Only
I don't like to propose it, Anita. It isn't a good plan--from your point of view."

"I'd better hear it."

"Well, I might get a cable hurrying me across to the other side, and--you might go along."

"Oh!"

"I warned you you wouldn't think it a good plan. But since I've begun, let me finish. In Canada
and the United States I'm known--in my least important character--as Michael Donaldson, and
I've tried to keep the name clean because of my father and mother. When there's been anything
shady doing I've taken a fancy name and made such changes as I could in myself. The reason
I didn't want you to see the name in the register was because of what happened on the Monarchic.
I'd given you that ring, you know. I couldn't resist doing that. I wanted you to have it, not
because of its value, but because it's beautiful. I thought it was like you, somehow. I had
to make up its loss in another way to the man who expected to have it--that 'Napoleon' I mentioned."

"I know, the old man--Paul Van Vreck," Annesley guessed with weary impatience.

"I'll not say yes or no to that. But it will be bad for me, and perhaps for you, too, if you
ever mention Paul Van Vreck in such a connection. Not that you'd be believed."

"I sha'n't mention him again."

"Just as well not.... But it was my name and my plan I began to speak about. I was going to
say, you needn't be afraid that if you took my name (which is yours now), you'd have to be
ashamed of it. We could go to America, and in England Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Smith would soon
be forgotten. I'd hand over the money you hate to charities--not the kind of charities I've
been supporting here! They've all been part of what you call my fraud, and have only given
me a chance to bring some rather queer-looking fish around me, who might have raised curiosity
if I couldn't have accounted for them. But real charities.

"And if you'd stick by me--I don't mean love me; I know you can't do that; but live in the
same house and not chuck me altogether, I'd turn over a new leaf. I'd begin again from the
beginning.

"In Texas I've got some land--a ranch. It isn't worth much, I'm afraid, but I came by it honestly,
for me. I won it at poker from a man named Jack Haslett. He was a devil for cards, but it didn't
matter. He was rich; and he had a better ranch that he lived on. He's dead now--was near dead
then, of consumption. He liked me. Said he was glad I'd won the ranch. It was only a bother to him.

"I was with Jack when he died, and did what I could to ease him at the end. He was grateful,
and what money his bad luck at cards had left him he willed to me. It was only eight thousand
dollars.

"If it had come to me any other way, I dare say I'd have chucked it away in a month. It wouldn't
have seemed worth saving. But I was sort of sentimental about poor old Haslett and his feeling
for me. I didn't care to lump his money in with what I got in my line of life. I made a separate
fund of it.

"Some had to go toward improvements on the place before I could let the ranch to any one, but
there's about six thousand dollars left, I guess. The fellow I let to wrote me a few weeks
ago that he was tired of ranching and wanted to clear out. He hoped I could find someone to
buy his cattle and the furniture he's put in the house. The letter was forwarded by a man I
keep in touch with my business and whereabouts, so he can look after my interests. I've had
no time to answer yet.

"I was going to write that I didn't know any one who cared to settle in Texas; but now what
if I wrote that I'd take the place and everything on it off the fellow's hands myself?"

"I don't know what Texas is like," Annesley replied, coldly. "But anything would be better
than the life you're leading now."

"I wasn't intending to go alone," Knight reminded her. "I said, if you'd stick by me, not throw
me over altogether, I'd try and begin again. In that case, Texas would do as well as anywhere;
and the place and the money are clean."

"How could I go with you, and live under the same roof, with everything so changed?" the girl
exclaimed. "It would kill me!"

"As bad as that?... Well, then, I must rack my brains for something else. But I'm sorry this
won't do. Would you care to live with Archdeacon Smith and his wife?"

"No. No! And they wouldn't want me."

"That seems queer to me: that any one should have the chance of keeping you with them, and
not want you ... How would it be for you to go on the same ship with me, and find a little
home somewhere on an allowance I could make you out of that fund? You see, you are my wife
in the eyes of the law, so I'm bound to support you. And you're bound to let me do it, if I
can do it honestly."

Annesley flung up her arms in a gesture of abandonment. "Let it go at that," she sighed, "until
I can think of something better."

"Very well. We won't argue that part yet. The thing to make sure of at the moment is this:
Do I get a cable, say on the day everyone's leaving Valley House, calling me back to America
on urgent business, and do I take you with me?"

Annesley's thoughts raced through her head and would not stop. Knight did not speak. He was
waiting with outward patience for her decision.

It seemed that she would never know what to say. She was about to tell him in despair that
she must have the rest of the day to make up her mind, but before she could speak Parker knocked
at the door.

"I'll go with you," the girl said, hastily. "On the ship. But after that----"

Parker knocked again.

"Come in!" called Annesley.

"Thank you," Knight said, getting up from his chair near her bed.

"Don't thank me. I----"

But Parker had opened the door. All that was conventional and agreeably commonplace in the
lives of happy, well-to-do people seemed to enter the room with her.

CHAPTER XXI

THE DEVIL'S ROSARY

Ruthven Smith summoned courage to ask for a few words alone with Knight that Easter morning,
in order to explain as well as apologize for the "seeming liberty he had taken." By dint of
stammering, and punctuating his sentences with short, dry coughs, he made "a clean breast,"
as he called it, of the "whole business."

He had come to Valley House, he confessed, because of an anonymous letter, written apparently
by a person of education, to inform him that the Malindore diamond had come into the possession
of the Nelson Smiths. Whether they were aware of its identity, the writer was not sure; but
in any case their ownership of the jewel was kept secret.

Having got so far in his story, Ruthven Smith decided that the easiest way of finishing it
would be to produce the letter. He did so (a typewritten sheet of plain creamy paper, in an
envelope post-marked "West Hampstead"), and simplified things for himself by pointing to the
last sentence.

  Mrs. Nelson Smith always wears a thin gold chain round her neck, which
  she lets drop to her shoulders for evening dress. What precious thing
  which has to be hidden hangs on that chain? Mr. Ruthven Smith is
  advised to find out.

"I see now," the unfortunate man excused himself, "that someone has been taking advantage of
my anxiety about the losses of my firm to play a cruel practical joke on me. I can't help thinking,
at the same time, that the person must have had a grudge against you and your wife also."

"Or else a desire to make mischief between you and us," was Knight's calm suggestion.

Ruthven Smith caught it up, eagerly. "Ah, that possibility hadn't occurred to me."

"I suppose we all have enemies." Knight pursued the subject without excitement. "The writer
probably wished to put the idea in your head that I had deliberately bought an historic diamond
which I knew to be stolen."

"But that would have been ridiculous!" exclaimed the jewel expert, and felt sincere in making
his protest.

Nevertheless, he had glanced at Annesley's face while talking of the Malindore diamond to Lady
Cartwright. It had been on the edge of his mind that, if she looked self-conscious, it would
be a point against her and her husband. Also he had determined to make his daring attempt at
discovery before she had time to get rid of the diamond if she were hiding it. Now, however,
in the light of her shining innocence, he had almost forgotten that he had suspected an underhand
design on her part.

He asked Nelson Smith if he could think of any one, man or woman, among his acquaintances capable
of writing the anonymous letter. Nelson Smith replied that his brain was a blank, and that
he hardly thought it worth while to follow the matter up, unless Ruthven Smith wished to do
so. In that case they might put the affair in the hands of the police.

But the elder man was of the younger's opinion. He had made a fool of himself, and was ashamed
that he had attached importance to an unsigned communication. All he desired was to let the
unpleasant business drop.

This being settled, Knight, in whose hand was the typewritten letter, tossed the thing into
the fireplace of the library, where the two had been talking. When he and Ruthven Smith had
shaken hands and agreed to forget the whole incident the latter was glad to escape from the
interview. He went to his room and lay down, to soothe his nerves and think of an excuse to
return to London early on Monday morning.

As soon as his meagre back was turned Knight stooped and retrieved the letter in its envelope,
unscorched, from the fireplace. There was nothing about it--not even a tell-tale perfume--to
give any clue to the writer.

Nevertheless, Knight considered it of value. He intended to use it as a bluff to frighten the
Countess de Santiago, for only through her own fear could he prove her treachery.

Most of the guests at Valley House went to church, to give thanks for the fairy-like Easter
eggs they had received. Annesley had a headache, however, and no one was surprised that her
husband should choose to stop at home to look after her.

His adoring devotion for the girl was no secret. People laughed at it, but admired it, too,
and some women envied Annesley. They imagined him spending the morning with his wife, but as
a matter of fact he did not go near her. He feared to speak lest she might change her decision
and refuse to travel to America with him.

His one hope--a desperate hope--lay in her going. He decided not to see her alone again until
Monday evening, after the arrival of the cable from America.

In order to insure the coming of this message, and to make it realistic, he motored into Torquay
and sent a long telegram, partly in cipher. Returning, he had a conversation with Charrington,
the butler, and Char, the chauffeur, a conversation which left the brothers grave and subdued.
Later Char went off in the car again, though it poured with rain, and was gone until late at night.

Between twelve and one o'clock Knight, strolling toward the garage, heard the automobile return,
and stopped in the blaze of the acetylene for the motor to slow down.

"Is it all right?" he inquired.

"It's all right," Char answered, somewhat sullenly, yet with a certain reluctant respect. "Nothing
will happen here Monday night."

"Good!" his master answered, and smiled at the thought of Madalena's malicious prophecy which
would not be fulfilled. It was not a pleasant smile, yet, as he had said to Annesley, he planned
no revenge against the tigress--the woman whose claws had ripped his heart open.

Tigress or no, she was a woman, and he knew that, as far as she was capable of caring, she
had cared for him.

Perhaps it had been partly his fault. She was handsome, and had been years younger when he
had met her first. She was married then to an old man, jealous and suspicious, knowing that
his money had won the beautiful wild creature for him. It was at Buenos Aires, and the husband
had found Madalena out in an intrigue; partly political, partly mercenary, and partly passionate.
He had turned her from his house without a penny, and Knight--not personally concerned in the
intrigue, but interested--had been flush enough at the time to lend her a thousand dollars,
enough to go away with. It had been called a loan, but he had not expected to get the money
back, and never did get it.

In California she had set herself up as a palmist and had become successful, a success she
duplicated in New York; and she had gladly made herself useful in many ways to "Don" and those
with whom he "worked."

One way was to find out the number and worth of her rich clients' jewels, and where they were
kept. Through her crystal gazing she was able to conjure women's secrets without their realizing
that they, not she, gave them to the light. And aboard the Monarchic was not by any means the
first time that Madalena had been invaluable in diverting suspicion by throwing it upon the
wrong track.

Knight had consulted her, praised her, and flattered her from time to time. Now he told himself
that he was paying for his thoughtlessness. He had taken Madalena for granted, regarding her
as a machine rather than a woman; and though he owed to her the loss of his happiness, that
happiness had been undeserved and, as he expressed it to himself, walking the wet paths at
midnight, he had "stood to lose it anyhow."

He would frighten Madalena so that she would never dare to try her tricks again, and he would
let her understand that because of what she had done their partnership had come to an end once
and forever. Otherwise she should feel herself safe from him.

Bad he might be, and was, as he knew; but he didn't think it was in his make-up, somehow, to
strike a woman.

He did not go back to the house, after his short talk with Char, until after he had heard the
stable clock strike four. It was easier to think and see things clearly out of doors than in
his room adjoining Annesley's--that closed room, forbidden to him now, where she was perhaps
crying, and surely hating him. As for the long nightmare day he had lived through, it had been
too full for much deliberate thinking; and he wanted to plan for the future: how to begin again,
and how to keep the woman who had come to mean more for him than anything else had ever meant--more,
he knew, than anything else could mean.

He was not sure whether the love in his heart was a punishment or a blessing, but there it
was. It had come to stay.

"This woman to this man!"

He found himself repeating the words he remembered best in the marriage service, not bitterly
as he had repeated them to Annesley, but yearningly, clingingly, groping after some promise
of hope in them.

"She gave herself to me. I'm the same man she loved, after all, though she says I'm not," he
told himself. "God! What's the good of being a man at all, if I can't get her back?"

As he wandered through one winter-saddened garden after another--the Italian garden, the Dutch
garden, the rose garden--he searched his soul, asking it how much more he should have to tell
the girl about his past. In a kind of desperate resignation he persuaded himself that there
was nothing he would not be willing to tell her now, if it were for her good, and if she wished
to hear.

But something within him said that she would wish to hear no more. She would deign to put no
questions to him, even if she felt curiosity. She would doubtless refuse to listen if he volunteered
a further confession. He was instinctively sure of his ground there; and in his bitterness
of spirit there was a faint gleam of comfort; certain details of his degradation (she would
think it that) might be kept decently hidden.

For instance, he would not have to tell her how, as a boy in Chicago, he had learned to make
strange use of those clever, nervous hands of his, which she had lovingly praised as "sensitive
and artistic." He could almost see the girl shudder and grow pale at hearing how proud he had
been at sixteen of being admitted to friendship with a "swell mobsman" fascinating as any "Raffles"
of fiction; how it had amused the fellow to teach him a deft and delicate touch, beginning
his lessons with the game of jack-straws, in which he was given prizes if he could separate
the whole stack, one straw from another, without disturbing the balance of the pile.

It would gain him no credit in Annesley's eyes if he should assure her that, though he knew
how to pick pockets--none better--he had somehow never cared to put his skill in practice,
but had always preferred, leaving that part of the industry to others. No excuse could help
him with her, and he was glad she need not know all the ways in which he had served the eccentric
friend and employer with whose interests he had been associated more or less since his twenty-fifth
year.

How disgusting would seem to Anita the inside history of the Monarchic episode, upon which
he had rather prided himself until love for her had begun making subtle changes in his view
of life. He and old Paul Van Vreck had laughed together at the patent lock on which the agent
depended--a lock invented by the retired member of the firm himself, and followed by a second
invention, even more clever: a little instrument designed to open a door in spite of it.

There had been the drug, too, which leaving no odour behind, had the same effect as chloroform,
and "took" even more quickly. Paul Van Vreck had read of certain experiments made by a professor
of chemistry in Tours, had gone to France to see the man, had bought the formula, which had
not yet proved itself entirely successful; had added an ingredient on his own account, and
triumphed.

