Except in the more sheltered places the bay ice had broken away along the Straits and we had
to follow the rough ice barricades, sometimes working inland up and down the rocky hills and
steep grades.  Before noon we passed Henley Harbor and the Devil's Dining Table--a basaltic
rock formation--and a little later reached Chateau Bay and had dinner in a native house.  Beyond
this point there are cabins built at intervals of a few miles as shelter for the linemen when
making repairs to the wire.  We passed one of these at Wreck Cove toward evening, but as a
storm was threatening, pushed on to the next one at Green Bay, fifty-five miles from Battle
Harbor.  It was dark before we got there, and to reach the Bay we had to descend a steep hill.
I shall never forget the ride down that hill.  It is very well to go over places like that
when you know the way and what you are likely to bring up against, but I did not know the way
and had to pin my faith blindly on Murphy, who had taken me over rotten ice during the day---
ice that waved up and down with our weight and sometimes broke behind us.  My opinion of him
was that he was a reckless devil, and when we began to descend that hill, five hundred feet
to the bay ice, this opinion was strengthened.  I would have said uncomplimentary things to
him had time permitted.  I expected anything to happen.  It looked in the night as though a
sheer precipice with a bottomless pit below was in front of us.  Two drags were thrown over
the komatik runners to hold us back, but in spite of them we went like a shot out of a gun,
he on one side, I on the other, sticking our heels into the hard snow as we extended our legs
ahead, trying our best to hold back and stop our wild progress.  But, much to my surprise,
when we got there, and I verily believe to Murphy's surprise also, we landed right side up
at the bottom, with no bones broken.  There were three men camped in the shack here, and we
spent the night with them.

Early the next day we reached Red Bay and the telegraph office.  There are no words in the
English language adequate to express my feelings of gratification when I heard the instruments
clicking off the messages.  It had been seventeen years since I had handled a telegraph key--when
I was a railroad telegrapher down in New England--and how I fondled that key, and what music
the click of the sounder was to my ears!

My messages were soon sent, and then I sat down to wait for the replies.

The office was in the house of Thomas Moors, and he was good enough to invite me to stop with
him while in Red Bay.  His daughter was the telegraph operator.

The next day the answers to my telegrams came, and many messages from friends, and one from
Bowring & Company stating that no steamer would be sent to Cape Charles.  I had been making
inquiries here, however, in the meantime, and learned that it was quite possible to secure
dogs and continue the journey up the north shore, so I was not greatly disappointed.  I dispatched
Murphy at once to Battle Harbor to bring on the other men, waiting myself at Red Bay for their
coming, and holding teams in readiness for an immediate departure when they should arrive.

They drove in at two o'clock on April fourth, and we left at once.  On the morning of the sixth
we passed through Blanc Sablon, the boundary line between Newfoundland and Canadian territory,
and here I left the Newfoundland letters from my mail bag.  From this point the majority of
the natives are Acadians, and speak only French.

At Brador Bay I stopped to telegraph.  No operator was there, so I sent the message myself,
left the money on the desk and proceeded.

Three days more took us to St. Augustine Post of the Hudson's Bay Company, where we arrived
in the morning and accepted the hospitality of Burgess, the Agent.

Our old friends the Indians whom we met on our inland trip at Northwest River were here, and
John, who had eaten supper with us at our camp on the hill on the first portage, expressed
great pleasure at meeting us, and had many questions to ask about the country.  They had failed
in their deer hunt, and had come out half starved a week or so before, from the interior.

We did fifty miles on the eleventh, changing dogs at Harrington at noon and running on to Sealnet
Cove that night.  Here we found more Indians who had just emerged from the interior, driven
to the coast for food like those at St. Augustine as the result of their failure to find caribou.

Two days later we reached the Post at Romain, and on the afternoon of April seventeenth reached
Natashquan and open water.  Here I engaged passage on a small schooner--the first afloat in
the St. Lawrence--to take us on to Eskimo Point, seventy miles farther, where the Quebec steamer,
King Edward, was expected to arrive in a week or so.  That night we boarded the schooner and
sailed at once.  Into the sea I threw the clothes I had been wearing, and donned fresh ones.
What a relief it was to be clear of the innumerable horde "o' wee sma' beasties" that had been
my close companions all the way down from the Eskimo igloos in the North.  I have wondered
many times since whether those clothes swam ashore, and if they did what happened to them.

It was a great pleasure to be upon the water again, and see the shore slip past, and feel that
no more snowstorms, no more bitter northern blasts, no more hungry days and nights were to
be faced.

Since June twenty-fifth, the day we dipped our paddles into the water of Northwest River and
turned northward into the wastes of the great unknown wilderness, eight hundred miles had been
traversed in reaching Fort Chimo, and on our return journey with dogs and komatik and snowshoes,
two thousand more.

We reached Eskimo Point on April twentieth, and that very day a rain began that turned the
world into a sea of slush.  I was glad indeed that our komatik work was finished, for it would
now have been very difficult, if not impossible, to travel farther with dogs.

I at once deposited in the post office the bag of letters that I had carried all the way from
far-off Ungava.  This was the first mail that any single messenger had ever carried by dog
train from that distant point, and I felt quite puffed up with the honor of it.

The week that we waited here for the King Edward was a dismal one, and when the ship finally
arrived we lost no time in getting ourselves and our belongings aboard.  It was a mighty satisfaction
to feel the pulse of the engines that with every revolution took us nearer home, and when at
last we tied up at the steamer's wharf in Quebec, I heaved a sigh of relief.

On April thirtieth, after an absence of just eleven months, we found ourselves again in the
whirl and racket of New York.  The portages and rapids and camp fires, the Indian wigwams and
Eskimo igloos and the great, silent white world of the North that we had so recently left were
now only memories.  We had reached the end of The Long Trail. The work of exploration begun
by Hubbard was finished.

APPENDIX

LABRADOR PLANTS

Specimens collected along the route of the expedition between Northwest River and Lake Michikamau.
Determined at the New York Botanical Gardens:

Ledum groonlandicum, Oeder. Comarum palustre L. Rubus arcticus L. Solidago multiradiata.  Ait.
Sanguisorba Canadensis L. Linnaea Americana, Forbes. Dasiphora fruticosa (L), Rydb. Chamnaerion
latifolium (L), Sweet. Viburnum pancifloram, Pylaim. Viscaxia alpina (L), Roehl. Menyanthes
trifoliata L. Vaznera trifolia (L), Morong. Ledum prostratum, Rotlb. Betula glandulosa, Michx.
Kalmia angustifolia. Aronia nigra (Willd), Britt. Comus Canadensis L. Arenaria groenlandica
(Retz), Spreng. Barbarea stricta, Audry. Eriophorum russeolum, Fries. Eriophorum polystachyon
L. Phegopteris Phegopt@ (L), Fee.

LICHENS

Cladonia deformis (L), Hoffen. Alectoria dehrolenea (Ehrh.), Nyl. Umbilicaria Neuhlenbergii
(Ac L.), Tuck.

GEOLOGICAL NOTES By G. M. Richards All bearings given, refer to the true meridian.

My sincere thanks are due Prof.  J.F. Kemp and Dr. C.P. Berkey, whose generous assistance has
made this work possible.

ROUTE FOLLOWED

The route was by steamer to the head of Hamilton Inlet, Labrador-- thence by canoes up Grand
Lake and the Nascaupee River.  Fifteen miles above Grand Lake, a portage route was followed
which makes a long detour through a series of lakes to avoid rapids in the river.  This trail
again returns to the Nascaupee River at Seal Lake and for some fifty miles above Seal Lake,
follows the river.  It then leaves the Nascaupee, making a second long detour through lakes
to the north.  On one of these lakes (Bibiquasin Lake) the trail was lost, and thereafter we
traveled in a westerly direction until reaching Lake Michikamau.

Our food supply was then in so depleted a condition the party was obliged to separate, three
of us returning to Northwest River.

It will be understood that the circumstances would allow of but a very limited examination
of the geological features of the country.  Only typical rock specimens, or those whose character
was at all doubtful were brought back.

PREVIOUS EXPLORATION

Mr. A.P. Low penetrated to Lake Michikamau, by way of the Grand River. He has thoroughly described
the lake in his report to the Canadian Geological Survey, 1895, and it is not touched upon
in the following paper.  In the summer of 1903, an expedition led by Leonidas Hubbard, Jr.,
attempted to reach Lake Michikamau by ascending the Nascaupee River; they, however, missed
the mouth of that stream on Grand Lake and followed the Susan River instead, pursuing a northwesterly
course for two months without reaching the lake.  On the return journey, Mr. Hubbard died of
starvation, his two companions, Mr. Wallace and a half-breed Indian, barely escaping a similar
fate.

GEOGRAPHICAL RESULTS OF THE EXPEDITION

The Northwest River represented on the map of the Canadian Geological Survey (made from information
obtained from the Indians) as draining Lake Michikamau, is but three and one-half miles long,
and connects Grand Lake with Hamilton Inlet.  There are six streams flowing into Grand Lake,
instead of only one.  It is the Nascaupee River that flows from Lake Michikamau to Grand Lake;
and Seal Lake instead of being the source of the Nascaupee River is merely an expansion of it.

The source of the Crooked River was also discovered and mapped, as well as a great number of
smaller lakes.

On the Northern Slope the George and Koroksoak Rivers and several lakes were mapped, and some
smaller rivers located.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ROUTE EXPLORED

Northwest River which flows into a small sandy bay at the head of Hamilton Inlet is only three
and one-half miles long and drains Grand Lake.

For one-quarter of a mile above its mouth the river maintains an average width of one hundred
and fifty yards, and a depth of two and one-half fathoms.  It then expands into a shallow sheet
of water two miles wide and three miles long, known locally as "The Little Lake." At the head
of this small expansion the river again contracts where it flows out of Grand Lake.  This point
is known as "The Rapids," and although there is a strong current, the stream may be ascended
in canoes without tracking.

At the foot of "The Rapids" the effect of the spring tides is barely perceptible.  Between
Grand Lake and the head of Hamilton Inlet, Northwest River flows through a deposit of sand
marked by several distinct marine terraces.

Grand Lake is a body of fresh water forty miles long and from two to six miles in width, having
a direction N. 75 degrees W.  It lies in a deep valley between rocky hills that rise to a height
of about four hundred feet above the lake, and was doubtless at one time an extension of Hamilton
Inlet.  At Cape Corbeau and Berry Head the rocks rise almost perpendicularly from the water;
at the former place, to a height of three hundred feet.  Except in a few places the hills are
covered to their summits by a thick growth of small spruce and fir.

At the head of the lake there are two bays, one extending slightly to the southwest, the other
nearly due north.  Into the former flow the Susan and Beaver Rivers, while into the latter
empties the water of the Nascaupee and Crooked Rivers.  Besides these there are two small streams,
the Cape Corbeau River on the south, and Watty's Brook on the north shore.

At the point where the Nascaupee and Crooked Rivers enter the lake there are two low islands
of sand, and a great deal of sand is being carried down by the two streams and deposited in
the lake, which is very shallow for some distance from the shore.

Three miles above the mouth of the Nascaupee River it is separated from the Crooked River by
a plain of stratified sand and gravel, three-quarters of a mile wide, with two well-defined
terraces.  The first is twenty feet above the river and extends back some three hundred yards
to a second terrace, rising seventy-five feet above the first.

Half way between this terrace and the Crooked River is, the old bed of the Nascaupee River,
nearly parallel to its present course.  A similar abandoned channel curve was found, making
a small arc to the south of the Crooked River.

Above Grand Lake the Nascaupee River flows through an ancient valley, which is from a few hundred
yards to a mile wide and cut deep into the old Archaean rocks, affording an excellent example
of river erosion. The banks are of sand, and in some places clay, extending back to the foot
of the precipitous hills.  Apparently the ancient river valley has been partly filled with
drift, down through which the river has cut its way; the present bed of the stream being of
post glacial formation.  The general direction of the river is N. 83 degrees W.

Fifteen miles above Grand Lake, the Red River joins the main stream, coming from N. 87 degrees
W. Below its junction with the latter stream, the Nascaupee River has a width varying between
two and three hundred yards, and an average depth of about ten feet.

The Red River is two hundred feet wide, and its water, unlike that of the main stream, has
a red brown color, like that of many of the streams of Ontario which have their source in swamp
or Muskeg lands.

The first rapids in the Red River are said to be eight miles above its mouth.  Directly opposite
the junction of the two streams the portage leaves the Nascaupee River.  The direction is N.
24 degrees E. and the distance five and one-half miles, with an elevation of 1050 feet above
the river at the end of the second mile.

The last three and one-half miles lead across a level tableland, to a small lake, from which
the trail descends through two lakes into a shallow valley.

The entire country from the head of Grand Lake to this point has been devastated by fire, only
a few trees near the water having escaped destruction, and the ground, except in a few places,
is destitute even of its usual covering of reindeer moss.

The underlying rock is gneiss, and the country from the Nascaupee River is thickly strewn with
huge glacial bowlders.

The majority of these bowlders have been derived from the immediate vicinity, but many consisting
of a coarse pegmatite carrying considerable quantities of ilmenite were observed.  None of
this rock was seen in place.

The valley last mentioned is separated from the Crooked River by Caribou Ridge, a broad, flat-topped
elevation, three hundred and fifty feet high, dotted by small lakes, which fill almost every
appreciable depression in the rock.

The general course to the Crooked River is northeast; at the point where the portage reaches
it the stream is fifty yards wide and very shallow; flowing over a bed of coarse drift, which
obstructs the river, forming a series of small lake expansions with rapids at the outlet of
each.   Between Grand Lake and the point where we reached the river, the Indians say it is
not navigable in canoes, owing to rapids.

The Crooked River has its source in Lake Nipishish, which is about twenty-two miles long, with
an average width of three miles, and a course due north.  Six miles above the outlet of the
lake is a bay, five miles long, extending N. 80 degrees W.

Along the north shore of the lake and in the bay are several small islands of drift, and many
huge angular bowlders projecting above the water.  The country in the vicinity of the lake
and in the valley of the Crooked River is covered with mounds and ridges of drift and many
small moraines.

These moraines consisting of bowlders for the most part from the immediate vicinity, seemed
to have no given direction, but were usually found at the ends of, and in a transverse direction
to the ridges.

The trail leaves Lake Nipishish near the head of the large bay, continuing in a direction between
north and northwest, through several insignificant lakes, all drained indirectly by the Crooked
River, until it reached Otter Lake, which is eight miles long, running nearly north and south,
and is five hundred and fifty feet below the summits of the surrounding hills.

From Otter Lake, the course is west through five diminutive lakes, and across a series of sandy
ridges to a small shallow lake, which is the source of Babewendigash River.  Between this lake
and Seal Lake intervene a high range of mountains--the highest seen on the journey to Lake
Michikamau--rising fully one thousand feet above the level of Seal Lake.  They are visible
for miles in any direction, and were seen from Caribou Ridge nearly a month before we reached them.

They are glaciated to their summits, which are entirely destitute of vegetation and in August
were still, in places, covered with snow. Babewendigash River winds to and fro between the
mountains, its course being determined to a great extent by esker ridges that follow it on
either side and which are often more than one hundred feet high. Throughout its length of twenty-five
miles there are five rapids and three small lake expansions.

Seal Lake, into which the river flows, is in part an expansion of the Nascaupee River and fills
a basin surrounded on every side by mountains, rising several hundred feet above the water.
The lake is comparatively shallow, and has a perceptible current.  There are several small
islands of drift, covered by a scanty growth of spruce and willow.  The main lake has direction
N. 45 degrees W., and is ten miles long and two and one-half miles wide.  The northwestern
arm is fifteen miles long, with the same width, and a course N. 80 degrees W.

The steep rocky shores have precluded the formation of terraces. Above Seal Lake the course
of the Nascaupee River varies between N. 40 degrees W. and N. 80 degrees W.

Five miles above the lake there is an expansion of the river, called Wuchusk Nipi, or Muskrat
Lake, which is eight miles long and a mile and a half wide, with a course N. 40 degrees W.
Except for a channel along the western shore, the lake is very shallow, being nearly filled
with sand carried down by the river.  There is a small stream flowing into this lake expansion
near its head, called Wuchusk Nipishish.

For fifty miles above Muskrat Lake, the river flows between sandy banks, marked on either side
by two well-defined terraces.  The river valley gradually becomes more narrow and the current
stronger and with the exception of a few small expansions, progress is only possible by means
of tracking.  There are, however, in this distance but two rapids necessitating portages.

Opposite the point where the portage leaves the Nascaupee to make a second long detour around
rapids, a small river flows in from the southwest, having a sheer fall of almost fifty feet,
just above its junction with the main stream.

The trail, after leaving the river, has a course N. 35 degrees W. for two miles; it then turns
N. 85 degrees W. six miles, and again N. 55 degrees W. four miles.

In its course are four small lakes, but there is an unbroken portage of eight miles between
the last two.  Nearly the whole country has been denuded by fire, and the prospect is desolate
in the extreme. The end of the portage is on the high rolling plateau of the interior, timbered
by a sparse and stunted second growth of spruce, covered everywhere with white reindeer moss,
and strewn with lakes innumerable.

The trail which runs N. 50 degrees W. and has not been used for eight years, gradually became
more and more indistinct, until on Bibiquasin Lake it disappeared entirely.  Thereafter the
course was N. 70 degrees W., and finally due west, through a series of lakes which at last
brought us to Lake Michikamau.  The largest of this series is Kasheshebogamog Lake, a sheet
of water twenty-three miles long, but broken by numerous bays and countless islands of drift,
with a direction S. 75 degrees W. The lake is confined between long bowlder- covered ridges,
and is fed at its western end by a small stream.

Although its outlet was not discovered, it doubtless drains into the Nascaupee River.

On the return journey an attempt was made to descend the Nascaupee River below Seal Lake.

The river leaves the lake at its southeastern extremity, flowing between hills that rise almost
straight from the waters edge, and is one long continuation of heavy rapids.  After following
the stream for two days we were obliged to retrace our steps to Seal Lake, thereafter keeping
to the course pursued on the inland journey.

DETAILS OF ROCK EXPOSURE

The numbers following the names of rocks refer to corresponding numbers in appendix.

Of the rocks observed, by far the greater number are foliated basic eruptives,--schists and
gneisses.  There are, however, some that are of undoubted sedimentary origin, but highly metamorphosed.

The general direction of foliation is a few degrees south of east, subject, of course, to many
local changes.

Along Grand Lake the rock is a compact amphibolite [3] with a strike S. 78 degrees E. cut by
numerous pegmatite dikes, having a strike N. 30 degrees W. and a dip 79 degrees W.. These dikes
vary in width from three to twenty feet.  Half way to the head of the lake is a dike [1] having
a total width of eight feet, consisting of a central band of segregated quartz, six feet wide,
cut by numerous thin sheets of biotite, which probably mark the planes of shearing.  The quartz
is bordered on either side by a band of orthoclase,' one foot in width. Between these bands
of orthoclase and the neighboring amphibolite are narrow bands of schist [2]

One hundred feet south of the above point is a second dike having a similar strike and dip
and a width of eighteen feet.  A third narrow dike, containing small pockets of magnetite,
is twenty-five feet south of the second.  Only the first is distinguished by the segregation
of the quartz.

The next outcrop observed was on the portage from the Nascaupee River. The rock, a biotite
granite gneiss [4] having a strike N. 82 degrees E. is much weathered and split by the action
of the frost, and marked by pockets of quartz, usually four or five inches in width.

Between this point and Lake Nipishish the underlying rock differs only in being more extremely
crushed and foliated.  The one exception is on Caribou Ridge, which is capped by a much altered
gabbro. [6]

The first noticeable change in the character of the country rock is a Washkagama Lake, where
a fine grained epidotic schist [7] was observed, having a dip 82 degrees W. and a strike S.
78 degrees E.

At Otter Lake a much foliated and weathered phyllite [8] was found. Strike N. 73 degrees E.
and a dip of 16 degrees.

On the Babewendigash River seven miles east of Seal Lake is an exposure of highly metamorphosed
ancient sedimentary rocks.  The outcrop occurs at a height of four hundred feet above the river;
and there is a well-marked stratification.

The lowest bed of a calcarous sericitic schist [9] is four feet thick and underlies a bed of
schistose lime stone [10] six feet in thickness, which is in turn covered by a finely laminated
phyllite, [11] ten feet thick.  The whole is capped by thirty feet of quartzite, [12] which
forms the top of a long ridge.

Owing to the strong weathering action this thickness of quartzite is doubtless much less than
it was originally.

Forty-six miles above Seal Lake an exposure of phyllite was seen, the same in every respect
as the one east of Seal Lake, just mentioned.

The general direction of foliation is S. 70 degrees E. and the dip 70 degrees.  The higher
hills west of Seal Lake are capped by a much altered gabbro [13] that has undergone considerable
weathering.

Between the Nascaupee River and a few miles beyond Bibiquasin Lake the rock is quartzite, [14]
considerably weathered and covered by drift. Bowlders of this quartzite were seen along the
Nascaupee River long before the first outcrop was reached, showing the general direction of
the glacial movement to have been to the southeast.  From Bibiquasin Lake to Lake Kasheshebogamog
the country is covered with much drift; the only exposures are on the steep hillsides.  The
rock being a coarse hornblende granite.

The western end of Kasheshebogamog Lake lies within the limit of the anorthosite [15] area,
which extends from that point to Lake Michikamau, a direct distance of twenty miles and was
the only anorthosite observed on the journey.

GLACIAL STRIAE

First portage opposite Red River            S. 45 degrees E. On Caribou Ridge             
E. At Washkagama Lake                          S. 70 degrees E. Near Seal Lake            
N. 85 degrees E. At Wuchusk Nipi                             S. 75 degrees E. Thirty-two miles
above Wuchusk Nipi         S. 70 degrees E.

MICROSCOPICAL FEATURES OF THE ROCK SPECIMENS

By G. M. Richards, Columbia University 1--Pegmatite-Grand Lake. The specimen was taken from
a pegmatite dike at its contact with an amphibolite.  In the hand specimen it is an apparently
pure orthoclase but in the thin section small scattered quartz grains are observed; as well
as the alteration products, Kaolin and sericite.

The minerals at contact are quartz, biotite, magnetite and hornblende.

Both the quartz and orthoclase contain dust inclusions and crystallites, while the evidences
of shearing and crushing are abundant.

2-Quartz Biotite Schist.

Contact between above dike and amphibolite.  A coarse black rock carrying magnetite and pyrites
in considerable quantities.

Under the microscope some of the biotite has a green coloration from decomposition and is surrounded
by strong pleochroic halos.

Small grains of secondary pyroxene are numerous.

AMPHIBOLITE

3-Grand Lake.

A dark, compact rock, having a mottled appearance due to grains of plagioclase, and a green
color in section.

Minerals present are hornblende, biotite, plagioclase, pyroxene, quartz and the alteration
products from the feldspar.

The rock has been subjected to a strong crushing action, which has been resisted by only small
portions of it.  The spaces between the grains, which are intact, are filled with a confused
mass of peripherally granulated minerals, in which strain shadows are very prominent.