THE*
                             *NAPLES RIVIERA*

                                   BY
                    HERBERT M. VAUGHAN, B.A. (OXON.)
                AUTHOR OF “THE LAST OF THE ROYAL STUARTS”

WITH TWENTY-FIVE ILLUSTRATIONS IN COLOUR BY MAURICE GREIFFENHAGEN

METHUEN & CO 36 ESSEX STREET W.C. LONDON

                        First Published in 1907

                                   TO
                                G. L. L.
                              IN MEMORY OF
                  MANY PLEASANT DAYS IN THE SUNNY SOUTH
                              THIS BOOK IS
                        AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED
                              BY THE AUTHOR

                                 CONTENTS

     CHAPTER I                                     PAGE
     INTRODUCTORY                                     1
     CHAPTER II
     THE VESUVIAN SHORE AND MONTE SANT’ ANGELO        8
     CHAPTER III
     LA CITTÀ MORTA                                  38
     CHAPTER IV
     VESUVIUS                                        66
     CHAPTER V
     THE CORNICHE ROAD                              100
     CHAPTER VI
     AMALFI AND THE FESTIVAL OF ST ANDREW           126
     CHAPTER VII
     RAVELLO AND THE RUFOLI                         152
     CHAPTER VIII
     SALERNO                                        172
     CHAPTER IX
     PAESTUM AND THE GLORY THAT WAS GREECE          198
     CHAPTER X
     SORRENTO AND ITS POET                          221
     CHAPTER XI
     CAPRI AND TIBERIUS THE TYRANT                  249
     CHAPTER XII
     ISCHIA AND THE LADY OF THE ROCK                275
     CHAPTER XIII
     PUTEOLI AND THE GRANDEUR THAT WAS ROME         295
     ————
     INDEX                                          321

                          LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                     PAGE
     CHARCOAL CARRIERS, AMALFI             Frontispiece
     A CAPRIOTE FISHERMAN’S WIFE                       16
     ROAD NEAR CASTELLAMARE                            30
     MONTE FAITO, CASTELLAMARE                         37
     THE FORUM, POMPEII                                46
     LA CASA DEI VETTII, POMPEII                       58
     VESUVIUS AND THE BAY OF NAPLES                    80
     POZZANO                                          101
     EVENING AT AMALFI                                124
     AMALFI                                           132
     IN THE VALLEY OF THE MILLS, AMALFI               140
     AMALFI: PIAZZA AND DUOMO                         148
     RAVELLO: IL DUOMO                                156
     A STREET IN RAVELLO                              163
     MINORI AT SUNSET                                 170
     ON THE ROAD TO RAVELLO                           186
     THE TEMPLE OF NEPTUNE, PAESTUM                   204
     AFTERNOON, SORRENTO                              230
     FARAGLIONI ROCKS, CAPRI                          249
     CAPRI FROM THE VILLA JOVIS                       254
     IN THE BLUE GROTTO, CAPRI                        262
     A GATEWAY, CAPRI                                 274
     ON THE PICCOLA MARINA, CAPRI                     288
     ISCHIA FROM CASTELLAMARE (SUNSET)                294
     ON THE BEACH                                     306

                               BIBLIOGRAPHY

A small selection out of the books I have consulted during the preparation
                      of this work is given below:—

E. GIBBON: Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.

DEAN MERIVALE: The Romans under the Empire.

Pliny’s Letters: (Church’s and Brodribb’s Translation, London, 1897).

J. PHILLIPS: Vesuvius (Oxford, 1869).

C. RAMAGE: Nooks and Byways of Italy.

C. LENORMANT: À Travers la Lucanie et l’Apulie.

W. J. A. STAMER: Dolce Napoli (London, 1878).

E. NEVILLE ROLFE: Naples in 1888.

CONSTANCE GIGLIOLI: Naples in 1799.

C. L. SISMONDI: Histoire des Républiques Italiennes.

L. ALBERTI: Descrizione di tutta l’ Italia (Venetia, 1596).

C. MILLS: The Travels of Theodore Ducas (London, 1822).

Les Délices d’Italie (Paris, 1707).

Nuova Guida de’ Forastieri in Napoli, etc. (1751).

COUNT STOLBERG: Travels through Italy and Sicily in 1756.

A. H. NORWAY: Naples, Past and Present (London, 1904).

E. BUSK: Folk-Songs of Italy.

J. A. SYMONDS: Sketches and Studies in Italy.

CATHERINE PHILLIMORE: Studies in Italian Literature (London, 1891).

T. A. TROLLOPE: A Decade of Italian Women (London, 1859).

G. BOCCACCIO: Il Decamerone.

A. MAU: Pompeii: its Life and Art (New York, 1899).

J. FERGUSSON: Handbook of Architecture (London, 1859).

FRANZ VON REBER: History of Ancient and Mediæval Art (New York, 1882).

E. JAMESON: Sacred and Legendary Art (London, 1879).

J. ELWORTHY: History of the Evil Eye (London, 1888).

N. VALLETTA: Cicalata sul Fascino detto Jettatura (Napoli, 1819).

A. CANALE: Storia dell’ Isola di Capri.

G. AMALFI: Tradizioni ed Vsi nella Penisola Sorrentina.

                            THE NAPLES RIVIERA

                                CHAPTER I

                               INTRODUCTORY

                   “In otia natam
            Parthenopen.”

That the city of Naples can prove very delightful, very amusing, and very instructive for a
week or ten days no one will attempt to dispute. There are long mornings to be spent in inspecting
the churches scattered throughout the narrow streets of the old town,—harlequins in coloured
marble and painted stucco though they be, they are yet treasure-houses containing some of the
most precious monuments of Gothic and Renaissance art that all Italy can display. There are
afternoon hours that can be passed pleasantly amidst the endless halls and galleries of the
great Museo Nazionale, where the antiquities of Pompeii and Herculaneum may be studied in advance,
for the wise traveller will not rush headlong into the sacred precincts of the buried cities
on the Vesuvian shore, before he has first made himself thoroughly acquainted with the wonderful
collections preserved in the Museum. Then comes the evening drive along the gentle winding
ascent towards Posilipo with its glorious views over bay and mountains, all tinged with the
deep rose and violet of a Neapolitan sunset; or the stroll along the fashionable sea front,
named after the luckless Caracciolo the modern hero of Naples, where in endless succession
the carriages pass backwards and forwards within the limited space between the sea and the
greenery of the Villa Reale. Or it may be that our more active feet may entice us to mount
the winding flights of stone steps leading to the heights of Sant’ Elmo, where from the windows
of the monastery of San Martino there is spread out before us an entrancing view that has but
two possible rivals for extent and interest in all Italy:—the panorama of the Eternal City
from the hill of San Pietro in Montorio, and that of Florence with the valley of the Arno from
the lofty terrace of San Miniato. We can while away many hours leisurely in wandering on the
bustling Chiaja or Toledo with their shops and their amusing scenes of city life, or in the
poorer quarters around the Mercato, where the inhabitants ply their daily avocations in the
open air, and eat, play, quarrel, flirt, fight or gossip—do everything in short save go to
bed—quite unconcernedly before the critical and non-admiring eyes of casual strangers. Pleasant
it is to hunt for old prints, books and other treasures amongst the dark unwholesome dens that
lie in the shadow of the gorgeous church of Santa Chiara or in the musty-smelling shops of
the curiosity dealers in the Strada Costantinopoli, picking up here a volume of some cinque-cento
classic and there a piece of old china that may or may not have had its birth in the famous
factory of Capodimonte. All this studying of historic sculpture in the churches and of antiquities
in the Museum, this observing the daily life of the populace, and bargain-hunting in the Strada
de’ Tribunali, are agreeable enough for a while, but of necessity there comes a time when the
mind grows weary of yelling people and of jostling crowds, of stuffy churches and of the chilly
halls of the Museum, of steep dirty streets and of glaring boulevards, so that we begin to
sigh for fresh air and a change of scene. Nor is there any means of escape within the precincts
of the city itself from the eternal cracking of whips, from the insulting compliments (or complimentary
insults) of the incorrigible cabmen, from the continuous babel of unmusical voices, and from
the reiterated strains of “Santa Lucia” or “Margari” howled from raucous throats or strummed
from rickety street-organs. Oh for peace, and rest, and a whiff of pure country air! For there
are no walks in or around the City of the Siren, where there is nowhere to stroll save the
narrow strip of the much-vaunted Villa (which is either damp or dusty according to weather)
or the fatiguing ascent amidst walled gardens and newly built houses to the heights of the
Vomero, which are covered with a raw suburb. Moreover our pristine delight in the place is
beginning to flag, as we gradually realise that the city, like the majority of great modern
towns, is being practically rebuilt to the annihilation of its old-world features, which used
to give to Naples its peculiar charm and its marked individuality amongst large sea-ports.
Long ago has disappeared Santa Brigida, that picturesque high-coloured slum, on whose site
stands the garish domed gallery of which the Neapolitans are so proud; gone in these latter
days is classic Santa Lucia with its water-gate and its fountain, its vendors of medicated
water and frutti di mare, those toothsome shell fish of the unsavoury beach; vanished for ever
is many a landmark of old Naples, and new buildings, streets and squares, blank, dreary, pretentious
and staring, have arisen in their places. This thorough sventramento di Napoli, as the citizens
graphically term this drastic reconstruction of the old capital of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies,
is no doubt beneficial, not to say necessary, and we make no protest against these wholesale
changes, which have certainly tended to destroy utterly its ancient character and appearance.
But all seems commonplace, new, smart, and unpoetic, and we quickly grow weary of Naples now
that it has been turned into a Liverpool of the South without the local colour and the peculiar
attributes of which author and artist have so often raved. The life of the people, picturesque
enough in its old setting, now appears mean and squalid; the toilers in the streets look jaded,
oppressed and discontented; we search in vain for the spontaneous gaiety of which we have heard
so much. We feel disappointed, cheated even, in our expectations of Naples, and we begin to
understand that its chief attraction consists in its proximity to the scenes of beauty that
mark the course of its Riviera.

The Riviera of Naples may be said to extend from the heights of Cumae, at the end of the Bay
of Gaeta to the north, as far as Salerno in a southerly direction, whilst, lying close to this
stretch of shore, are included the three populous islands of Capri, Procida and Ischia, which
in prehistoric times doubtless formed part and parcel of the Parthenopean coast itself. Our
pleasant task it is to write of these classic shores and islands, where the beauties of nature
contend for pre-eminence with the glorious traditions of the past that centre round them. What
spot on earth can surpass, or even be compared with, Amalfi in the perfect lustre of its setting?
What loftier or bolder cliffs than those of Capri can the wild bleak headlands of the North
Sea exhibit? The fertile lands of France cannot vie with the richness of the Sorrentine Plain,
nor can any mountain on the face of the globe rival in human interest the peak of Vesuvius;
Pompeii is unique, the most precious storehouse of ancient knowledge the world possesses; whilst
the Bay of Baia recalls the days of Roman power and luxury more vividly to our minds than any
place save the Eternal City itself. And again: what illustrious names in history and in literature—classical,
medieval, modern—are for ever associated with these smiling shores! Robert Guiscard and Hildebrand
in quiet Salerno, Tasso at health-giving Sorrento, Vittoria Colonna in her palace-fortress
on the crags of Ischia, the great Apostle of the west at Puteoli:—these are but a few of the
more eminent and gracious figures that arise before us at the casual bidding of memory. Then
there are the infamous, as well as the virtuous and the gallant, whose misdeeds are still freshly
remembered upon these coasts or in their fertile valleys. The sinister Tiberius, the half-crazy
and wholly vicious Caligula, many a king and queen of evil repute that ruled Naples, the vile
Pier-Luigi Farnese, the adventurer Joachim Murat, all have left the marks of their personality
upon the coveted shores of the Neapolitan Riviera. From the days of the Sibyl and of the Trojan
hero to the stirring times of Garibaldi and of King Bomba, which were but of yesterday, Naples
and its environs have played a prominent part in the annals and development of the civilised
western world; Roman emperors, Pagan statesmen and poets, Norman, French and Spanish princes,
popes, saints and theologians, merchants and scientists of the Middle Ages, writers of the
Renaissance and heroes of the Risorgimento, all have combined to shed a halo of historical
romance upon Naples and its Riviera, where there is scarcely a sea-girt town or a crumbling
fortress that is not redolent of the memory of some personage whose name is inscribed on the
roll of European history. It seems but right, therefore, that many works should have been written
concerning this favoured corner of Italy, so replete with natural charm and with historical
interest; and in truth multitudes of books, large and small, witty and dull, erudite and empty,
light and heavy, prosaic and rhapsodical, have poured forth from the prolific pens of generations
of authors. We feel sincerely the need of an apology for making a fresh addition to the ever-increasing
pile of Neapolitan literature, and we can only urge in extenuation of our crime of authorship
that the same scene appeals in varied ways to different persons, and that every fresh description
is apt to shed additional light upon old familiar subjects. In the following pages we make
no profession to act the part of a guide to the neighbourhood of Naples, for are there not
the carefully prepared pages of Murray and Baedeker, to say nothing of the works of such writers
as Augustus Hare, to lead the wanderer into every church and castle, to show him every nook
in valley and mountain, and to supply him thoroughly with accurate dates and facts? No, our
treatment of this theme may be deemed a poor one, but it has at least the merit and the courage
of following its own peculiar lines. For we pursue our own course, and we touch lightly here
and omit there; we run to dissertation in this place, we glide by silently in another. We take
our own views of people and places, and give them for what they are worth to our readers to
approve or to condemn, as they think fit. We offer a medley of history and of imagination,
of biography and of private comment; and we crave indulgence for our short-comings by observing
that any deficiencies in these pages can easily be remedied by application to the abundant
literature upon Naples and its surrounding districts which every good library is presumed to
contain.

                                CHAPTER II

                THE VESUVIAN SHORE AND MONTE SANT’ ANGELO

That little stream the Sebeto, which is indeed, as the courtly Metastasio observes, “scanty
in depth of water though overflowing with honour,” may be considered as the boundary line that
divides the city of Naples from its eastern environs, although it is evident that the whole
stretch of coast from Posilipo to Torre del Greco is covered with an unbroken line of houses.
Past the highly cultivated Paduli, the chief market-gardens on this side of the city, with
the town of La Barra on the fertile slopes to our left, we pass by way of San Giovanni a Teduccio
to Portici, once a favourite resort of royalty. Here the dilettante Charles III., first Bourbon
King of Naples, built a palace and laid out gardens in the days of patches and powder, constructing
a royal pleasaunce that was destined to become the chief residence of the temporary supplanter
of his own family, Joachim Murat, the citizen king of Naples and brother-in-law of the great
Napoleon. Villa and gardens still remain, but monarchs have ceased to visit Portici since the
days of Bomba, and the old royal demesne has been turned into an agricultural college. Adjoining
and practically forming part of Portici is the town of Resina, which preserves almost intact
the old classical name of Retina that it bore in the distant days when it served as the port
of Herculaneum. Here then in the mean streets of Resina we find ourselves standing above, though
certainly not upon, historic ground, for the temples and villas, the theatres and private houses
of the famous buried city lie far below the surface trodden by our feet. To visit Herculaneum
it is necessary for us to descend some seventy to a hundred feet into the depths of the earth,
passing more than one layer of ancient lava, for Resina and Portici themselves are but modern
editions of former towns that have been engulfed in the course of ages. If the stranger can
derive any solid satisfaction from the descent by a gloomy underground passage and from fleeting
glimpses of ancient walls and dwellings seen through a forest of wooden baulks, which serve
to support the spaces excavated, he must indeed be an enthusiast. But most people, perhaps
all sensible people, will be content to take the undoubted interest of Herculaneum on trust,
probably agreeing (at any rate after their visit) that the inspection of this subterranean
city is not worth the candle, by whose flickering beams alone can objects be distinguished
in the oppressive darkness. Personally we strongly hold to the expressed opinion of Alexandre
Dumas, who declared that even the most hardened antiquary could not desire more than one hour’s
contemplation of this hidden mass of shapeless wreckage. “Herculaneum,” writes that genial
Frenchman, “but wearies our curiosity instead of exciting it. We descend into the excavated
city as into a mine by a species of shaft; then come corridors beneath the earth which can
only be entered by the light of tapers; and these smoke-grimed passages allow us from time
to time to obtain a momentary glimpse of the angle of a house, the colonnade of some temple,
the steps of a theatre. Everything is fragmentary, mutilated, dingy, uncertain, confused, and
therefore unsatisfactory. Well, at the end of an hour spent in wandering amongst these abysmal
recesses, the most hardened archæologist, the most dry-as-dust antiquary, the most inquisitive
of tourists begins to experience only one feeling—an intense desire to ascend to the light
of day and to breathe once more the fresh air of the upper world.”

Nevertheless, it was from these dismal caverns, black as Erebus, that some of the choicest
marbles and bronzes that now adorn the Museum at Naples were originally extracted. From a villa
at Herculaneum also was taken the famous collection of 3000 rolls of papyrus, chiefly filled
with the writings of the Epicurean philosopher Philodemus, perhaps the greatest “find” of ancient
literature that has yet been made, although the contents of this damaged library, deciphered
with equal toil and ingenuity, have not proved to be of the value originally set upon them
by expectant scholars. But much of the city itself has yet hardly been touched since the days
when it was destroyed in the reign of Titus, so that far below the squalid lanes of Portici
and Resina there must still exist acres upon acres of undisturbed buildings, public and private,
many of them perhaps filled with priceless works of Greek and Roman art, for Herculaneum, unlike
Pompeii, was never tampered with by the ancients themselves, for the coating of volcanic mud,
which filled the whole area of the city, made impracticable a systematic searching of its ruins
by the despoiled citizens. Then, as if nature had not already buried the city sufficiently
deep, subsequent eruptions of Vesuvius have superimposed additional layers of lava, whilst
confiding human beings have in their turn built habitations upon the volcanic crust.

We all know the story, perhaps mythical, of the discovery of Herculaneum at the beginning of
the eighteenth century by the accidental sinking of a well upon its long-forgotten site and
of the subsequent excavations made by the Prince d’Elbœuf. These so-called explorations were,
however, made in the most greedy and destructive spirit, for the prince’s sole object was to
obtain antique works of art for his private collection, not to make intelligent enquiries about
the dead and buried city lying beneath his estate. Ignorant workmen were despatched to hew
and hack wholesale in the mirky depths in order to discover statuary and paintings, and since
there was no receptacle at hand to contain the débris, they took the simple course of filling
in each hollow made with the masses of rubbish already excavated. Later in the same century
the Bourbon king was induced by Neapolitan savants to take some interest in the work, but,
strange to relate, the superintendent appointed, a certain Spanish officer named Alcubier,
was so ignorant and careless that half the objects found under his supervision were broken
or lost before they reached Naples; this ignoramus, it was said, even went so far as to order
whole architraves to be smashed up and their bronze lettering to be picked out before making
a copy of the original inscription! Under these circumstances the marvel is that anything of
beauty or value should have survived at all, for this selfish plundering of Herculaneum, in
strong contrast with the reverent treatment meted out to Pompeii, may be considered one of
the greatest pieces of vandalism ever perpetrated. In spite of this wholesale destruction,
however, there must remain untouched, as we have said, a vast quantity of objects, beautiful,
useful or curious, yet it is extremely doubtful if we shall live to see any serious and intelligent
effort made to bring these hidden treasures forth to the light of day. The expense of working
this buried hoard would be enormous in any case, whilst the existence of the houses of Resina
and Portici overhead necessitates special measures of precaution on the part of the excavators.
The only method of examining Herculaneum properly would be in fact to treat the buried site
like an immense mine by the construction of regular galleries and shafts for the entrance of
skilled workmen, and to remove the rubbish displaced to the outer air. Perhaps some multi-millionaire
might be found ready to undertake so arduous, yet so fascinating a task, though we fear that
the Italian Government, which has always shown itself as tenacious of its subterranean wealth
of antiquity as it appears languid in the work of quarrying it, would indignantly refuse to
accede to any such offer. As regards the ancient city of Hercules, therefore, we must perforce
remain content to inspect the magnificent bronzes and the other objects of interest that are
to be found in the Museum of Naples, for we are not likely to see any further researches just
at present, more’s the pity, since there is every reason to suppose that a thorough investigation
conducted regardless of cost would yield up to the world the most marvellous and valuable results.

