" So saying, he dashed out his father-in-law's brains with a battle-axe,
took possession of his castle and property, and established there a distinguished branch of
the clan of MacLean.--Tales of a Grandfather--Second Series.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVANTAGES OF A GOOD HEART,

A Fragment from the "Disowned," by the author of "Pelham."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

QUADRANGLE OF KING'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.

In the last New Monthly Magazine is an excellent account of this splendid structure, in A Day
at Cambridge,--in which occurs the following exquisite little descriptive gem:--

With the exception of a gravel walk, running near to the buildings on every side, the whole
ground-plot of this quadrangle is covered by an unbroken turf, kept, by means of constant and
almost hourly attention, in that exquisite order which is only to be observed in spots devoted
to similar purposes, here and at Oxford. The effect of an unbroken plot of turf of this kind
and quality, and in a situation like this, is perfectly unique, and perhaps indescribable.
It is supposed to be, and in fact is, for all purposes of preservation and beauty, sacred from
the foot of man or beast; and the feeling arising from this circumstance, added to the exquisite
natural adaptation of the object itself to the purposes of rest and relief from the almost
dazzling architectural splendour of the surrounding objects, is such as cannot be communicated
by any other means whatever, and we might in vain attempt to describe. It is of such a kind,
however, that those who are capable of experiencing it, would as soon think of treading upon
the object that conveys it to them, as those who honour Nature would think of rooting up a
nest of violets. Speaking for ourselves alone, there is but one thing that can disturb and
deteriorate the absolute tranquillity of mind, and peace of heart, which fall upon us, like
dew from heaven, on entering a place like that we have attempted to describe above; it is,
to see a capped and gowned Fellow, profaning with his footsteps the floor of that, in some
sort, sacred temple, merely because he can, by so doing, reach his habitation by a few footsteps
less than if he kept to the path allotted for him. We look upon the act as a species of impiety;
to say nothing of its proving, to a demonstration, that the person who commits it is either
utterly insensible to the mysterious harmony that subsists between a certain class of natural
objects and the heart of man; or utterly disregards that harmony, and sets it at naught. He
is, in fact, one of whom it may in one sense be said, that

  "He hath no music in his soul."

And we are almost tempted to complete the quotation, by adding--

  "Let no such man be trusted!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A RUSTIC PAIR.

By Miss Mitford.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECOLLECTIONS OF A R*T.

(Concluded from page 365.)

Finding a detachment just setting out to join the Grand Allied Army, I thought, as a true Briton,
I could do no less than accompany it, and prevailed upon all our party to do the same.

The detachment with which I marched, consisted of 80,000. As we had little baggage, having
crossed the Rhine, we proceeded rapidly through a dull, uninteresting country.

The town of Coblentz is situated at the junction of the Rhine and the Moselle. Here the majestic
Rhine gently flows along in all its grandeur, separating the town from the noble fortress of
Ehrenbreitstein.[1] I crossed over the bridge of boats, and made a most minute inspection of
this very romantic castle, which gave me great pleasure indeed. In a few days I availed myself
of a passage-boat which was going to Mayence, and was quite enraptured with the view on all
sides. Rhenish wines, and perhaps also the water, I found did not well agree with my stomach;
and no inconsiderable annoyance, I soon experienced. They seemed, however, to have exactly
the same effect upon every Englishman I saw, so I was not singular. A little brandy soon, however,
put me all to rights; and by the time I reached Strasbourg, I was perfectly well again, and
able to do ample justice to her Splendid Pies! I attended high mass in the great Cathedral
of Strasbourg, and was surprised and pleased at the sight of 10,000 soldiers, in review order,
drawn up within its walls. It was tiresome enough work mounting to the top of the spire, (which
I ascertained, by the steps I took, to be exactly 490 feet high, Strasbourg measure; and this
is exactly eight feet higher than St. Peter's at Rome), but I made it out, notwithstanding
the sulky looks of the jackanapes who lives at the top. Nothing can surpass the beauty of the
view from this cathedral. At your feet you have the ancient town, with all its regular fortifications
and outworks--the majestic Rhine, with its bridge of boats, and ruined Gothic bridge, sublime
in its decay--and as far as the eye can reach you have an exceedingly rich country, everywhere
speckled with towns, and fertilized by luxuriant streams.

    [1] Apropos--our Supplement contains a fine Engraving of this
    very spot.

I made a point of visiting my venerable friend, the old Comte de Strasbourg, who, unchanged
in the rolling on of centuries, lies in his glass coffin, to all appearance in the same freshness
of health and vigour in which, when myself a very young man, I saw him many hundred years ago;[1]
his countess, his son, and his daughter, keep him company, each in their separate place of
repose. Alas, alas! the sight made me weep.

    [1] The venerable count died about the year 1519. The glass
    coffins are still shown.

A few days afterwards, I was rather unexpectedly stopped in my tour. For a night I had taken
up my residence in the carriage of a young Englishman, who that day arrived from Rome, the
hostler having assured me that he would remain for some time. I did so, as I found it much
quieter and cooler than the hotel "La ville de Lyon," which was overcrowded. In the morning,
I thought my friends were merely going a short drive, so I kept my seat. We, however, travelled
on till night, when I heard we were bound for London; but as my companions were very agreeable,
I thought I might as well accompany them the whole way. They seemed to be annoyed at every
posthouse with their passports, &c.; I was never even asked about the matter. The custom-house
gentry, in their searches, to be sure, occasionally gave me a little trouble, but I was soon
up to their tricks. We had an avant-courier constantly galloping before us, and we travelled
with such expedition that we reached London in five days; for my fellow-travellers were idle
young men of fortune, who are of course always in the greatest hurry for the end of a journey,
because they don't know what to make of themselves when it is over.

I had not then an opportunity of seeing Paris, as we only changed horses in it. I have since,
however, spent many months there, and have always been very much pleased with every thing I
saw, particularly the Catacombs, which were my favourite lounge. When last in Paris, I made
a narrow escape with my life, as I tumbled headlong into a cask of brandy. I, however, managed
to scramble out, with the assistance of a bit of cord, which happened to be hanging over its
side, and which my friend pushed in to me. I was little the worse of my ducking; for, as soon
as I got out, I was set a-laughing by his telling me how to spell brandy, in both French and
English, in three letters, viz. "B.R. and Y." and "O.D.V."

In London I made a point, as a stranger, of going everywhere, and was certainly much delighted
with every thing. I must confess, however, that I thought all the acting at the Opera and Theatres,
and all the eloquence of the Houses of Parliament, as nothing in comparison of what I saw and
tasted at the East India and London Docks. When I was in the House of Lords, a companion whispered
to me, that he had heard an act read, offering a reward of 10,000l. for a male tortoise-shell
cat. This I believe, indeed, is a very safe offer, for such a thing was never heard of. And
it is certainly as much worth their while as making an act that I should never have more than
six dishes of meat at my dinner, or that I should not be buried in linen above twenty shillings
Scots value per ell, although I wished it particularly, and could well afford to pay for it.
There was, however, one restrictive act, which had sense in it; and the husbands of the present
day would, I dare say, give their ears that it were still in force, whatever the dressmakers
might think of it. But many of their acts of Parliament are silly enough--as they must be;
for they don't like to be thought idle, and imagine that it is necessary to be always enacting
something.

It is curious, indeed, how fashion should be every thing in the great city. A lady could not
possibly venture to see her dearest friend on earth, or even her own sister, if she happened
to live in rather an unfashionable part of the town. By so doing, she would expose herself
to her own footmen, who very properly would lose all respect for her, and I suppose instantly
leave her service, as, poor fellows, they have a rank in life to keep up!! John Bull certainly
gives himself many airs, to say the least of it. After receiving the greatest kindness and
hospitality from you in Scotland, and perhaps staying for months in your house, he will cut
you dead in London. I remember once meeting with such a return, but took it, of course, very
coolly. Next day, when I was arm in arm with ---- ----, I happened again to meet my quondam
friend, who immediately rushed up to me--I, however, turned on my tail, and did not know him.--Fashion
is an odd thing after all. It is not rank which will do. I have seen many a spendthrift young
commoner cut his uncle the duke; and being a duchess by no means will ensure admittance at
Almack's.--I thank my stars, I am not fashionable, and am always happy to see my friends!

I was persuaded, soon after reaching London, to go down to Essex for a few days, to pay a visit
to an old friend. When I arrived at his house, which I think they called Waltham Abbey, I was
sorry to receive the melancholy accounts that he had been devoured, and that, if I did not
instantly take myself off, I should be dealt with in the same manner. The truth was, that a
famine had arisen; and it is well known, on those occasions, as necessity has no law, that
the stronger kills the weaker. Day after day the combat is renewed, till at last all except
one are destroyed, and he is then obliged to decamp, or eat himself up, as he likes best. It
is in this way that castles, houses, &c. which have been long infested by us, are so suddenly
entirely freed from our presence.

I amused myself in making an excursion to Epping Forest, till I
thought the civil war at my late friend's habitation might have
proceeded far enough for my presence to be useful. In the forest,
one day, I had the luck to kill one of those troublesome reptiles--a
Tom Cat. I believe, however, it was a house one. After a hard day's
hunting his highness made too free at a Valerian party. I watched my
opportunity, and soon put an effectual end to his caterwauling. When
I returned to the abbey, I found I was in the best possible time--the
garrison being reduced to about a dozen, and they so weakened and
tired out with the constant worrying work they had had, that I was
myself a complete match for any two of them. In a few days the number
was only four, and in other two days I was sole lord and master.
  Was ever such a happy swain?
  He stuffs, and swills, and stuffs again.
  "I'm quite ashamed--'Tis mighty rude
  To eat so much; but all's so good!
  I have a thousand thanks to give,
  My lord alone knows how to live."--
  No sooner said, but from the hall
  Rush chaplain, butler, dogs, and all:
  "A r--t, a r--t! clap to the door!"--

I, however, made good my exit, and was nothing the worse of a practical warning to be more
cautious in future.

It would be endless for me to describe all my after voyages and travels. Suffice it to say,
I have been both east and west, north and south; and there is scarcely a part of the habitable
globe which I have not visited. After all, I have come to this conclusion, that there is no
country like Britain. Oh! how I could wish my human existence had been in such happy times
and under such glorious sovereigns as a George the Third, and George the Fourth!!!

For some years I have remained in this country, enjoying (like a patriarch of old) a quiet,
regular life with my family, which now amounts to above 2,000. I, however, keep very much to
my own room, as I hate bustle, and like to enjoy my own reflections.

The age to which our species can exist is not ascertained, as never one of us was known to
die in his bed, at least a natural death. A kind of instinct I have always had, has as yet
saved me from arsenic, stewed corks, traps, stamps, &c.; and my great strength, and a good
deal of science, which is of more consequence, have, as yet, preserved me in many a deadly
combat, both with my own species, and with the dog, the ferret, the weasel, the hawk, and that
green-eyed monster--the cat. But I am now getting somewhat stiffer, and am not so sharp as
I was. I am not--

  "--qualis eram, quum primam aciem Præneste sub ipsa
  Stravi, scutorumque incendi victor acervos;
  Et regem hâc Herilum dextrâ sub Tartara misi!!"

And in some evil hour my time must come.

--I am well aware, indeed, of the fleeting existence even of this world itself, for I studied
astronomy with the celebrated M. Olbers of Bremen, and assisted him in making many useful observations
and discoveries, particularly regarding comets, in the course of which we came to this melancholy
conclusion, that the comet which was afterwards visible in 1786 and 1795, will, in 83,000 years,
approach the earth as nearly as the moon; and that in 4,000,000 years it will come to within
a distance of 7,700 geographical miles;--the consequence of which will be (if its attraction
be equal to that of the earth) the elevation of the waters of the ocean 13,000 feet; that is
to say, above the tops of all the European mountains, except Mount Blanc. The inhabitants of
the Andes and of the Himalaya mountains alone will escape this second deluge; but they will
not benefit by their good fortune more than 216,000,000 years, for it is probable, that at
the expiration of that time, our globe standing right in the way of the comet, will receive
a shock severe enough to ensure its utter destruction!!!

Note.--After reading over the above MS., I am inclined to come to this conclusion--that our
historian, while in a human form, must have been a Scottish nobleman--that he probably was
born about the year 1501--and that he lived to about the age of 89.--Ed.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FANCY BALL.
            SHAKSPEARE.

  "You used to talk," said Miss Mac Call,
    "Of flowers, and flames, and Cupid;
  But now you never talk at all.
    You're getting vastly stupid.
  You'd better burn your Blackstone, Sir,
    You never will get through it;
  There's a Fancy Ball at Winchester--
    Do let us take you to it."

  I made that night a solemn vow,
    To startle all beholders:
  I wore white muslin on my brow,
    Green velvet on my shoulders--
  My trousers were supremely wide,
    I learn'd to swear "by Allah"--
  I stuck a poniard by my side,
    And called myself "Abdallah."

  Hail, blest Confusion! here are met
    All tongues, and times, and faces,
  The Lancers flirt with Juliet,
    The Bramin talks of races;
  And where's your genius, bright Corinne?
    And where your brogue, Sir Lucius?
  And Chinca Ti, you have not seen
    One chapter of Confucius.

  Lo! dandies from Kamschatka flirt
    With beauties from the Wrekin--
  And belles from Berne look very pert
    On Mandarins from Pekin;
  The Cardinal is here from Rome,
    The Commandant from Seville--
  And Hamlet's father from the tomb,
    And Faustus from the Devil.

  What mean those laughing Nuns, I pray,
    What mean they, Nun or Fairy:
  I guess they told no beads to-day,
    And sang no Ave Mary.
  From Mass and Matins, Priest and Pix,
    Barred door, and window grated,
  I wish all pretty Catholics
    Were thus emancipated.

  Four Seasons come to dance quadrilles,
    With four well-seasoned sailors--
  And Raleigh talks of rail-road bills,
    With Timon, prince of railers.
  I find Sir Charles of Aubyn Park
    Equipp'd for a walk to Mecca--
  And I run away from Joan of Arc,
    To romp with sad Rebecca.

  Fair Cleopatra's very plain,
    Puck halts, and Ariel swaggers--
  And Cæsar's murder'd o'er again,
    Though not by Roman daggers.
  Great Charlemagne is four feet high--
    Sad Stuff has Bacon spoken--
  Queen Mary's waist is all awry,
    And Psyche's nose is broken.

  Our happiest bride, how very odd!
    Is the mourning Isabella,
  And the heaviest foot that ever trod
    Is the foot of Cinderella.
  Here sad Calista laughs outright,
    There Yorick looks most grave, Sir,
  And a Templar waves the cross to-night,
    Who never cross'd the wave, Sir.

  And what a Babel is the talk!
    "The Giraffe"--"plays the fiddle"--
  "Macadam's roads"--"I hate this chalk"--
    "Sweet girl"--"a charming riddle"--
  "I'm nearly drunk with"--"Epsom salts"--
    "Yes, separate beds"--"such cronies!"--
  "Good heaven! who taught that man to valtz?"--
    "A pair of Shetland ponies."

  "Lord D----" "an enchanting shape"--
    "Will move for"--"Maraschino"
  "Pray, Julia, how's your mother's ape?"--
    "He died at Navarino!"
  "The gout, by Jove, is"--"apple pie"--
    "Don Miguel"--"Tom the tinker"--
  "His Lordship's pedigree's as high
    As ----" "Whipcord, dam by Clinker."

  "Love's shafts are weak"--"my chestnut kicks"--
    "Heart broken;"--"broke the traces"--
  "What say you now of politics?"--
    "Change sides and to your places"--
  "A five-barred gate"--"a precious pearl"
    "Grave things may all be punn'd on!"--
  "The Whigs, thank God, are"--"out of curl!"--
    "Her age is"--"four by London!"

  Thus run the giddy hours away,
    Till morning's light is beaming,
  And we must go to dream by day
    All we to-night are dreaming;
  To smile and sigh, to love and change--
    Oh! in our heart's recesses,
  We dress in fancies quite as strange
    As these our fancy-dresses.

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles
            SHAKSPEARE.

  Tho' lang an lonely be the road
    Between me an my dearie;
  Yet I the gate hae aften troad,
    When I've been tired and wearie.

  Be't stormin rain, hail, win or snaw--
    A lonely road and drearie--
  There's nought wad e'er keep me awa
    Frae gaun to see my dearie!!!

M.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH BALL CONVERSATION.

During the French revolution, parties danced as gaily as ever; the following is a ball conversation,
which took place in the month of Frimare, year 7.:--Well, the Ottoman Porte has declared war
against us! Oh yes, there is no doubt of it, (En avant deux) It is an enemy the more--(chassez)
and the Russian fleet they say has passed the Dardanelles, (en avant quatre) yet the papers
say that the emperor sincerely desires peace.--Yes, but Count Metternich wishes for war, (balancez)
so we have also a new coalition against us. England, Portugal, Naples, Turkey, the Emperor,
Russia, perhaps the empire of Prussia, (Faites face et chassez tous les huit)--well we have
bayonettes, (la poussette) besides it is not so far from Dover to Calais, (traversez)--Do you
belong to the conscription?--Yes, and I too; (pirouettez) what makes me uneasy is to know what
will become of our partners when we are gone: (La chaine des dames)--what will be left to amuse
them (La queu du chat.) It was thus that days of terror were preceded by evenings of amusement
and pleasure.

       *       *       *       *       *

INTUITIVE AFFECTION.

"There are three things," said a wit, "which I have always loved without ever understanding
them, painting, music, and woman."

       *       *       *       *       *

RETORT UNCOURTEOUS.

A lady, well known in the fashionable vicinity of Portland-place, always accosts a stranger,
with "I think I have seen you somewhere," which often leads to a clue for her finding out the
history of the party. One evening she played off the same game on a gentleman, who replied,
"Most likely, madam, for I sometimes go there."

       *       *       *       *       *

With the present Number is published the SECOND SUPPLEMENT of the Spirit of the Annuals--containing
Poetry and Prose by Allan Cunningham, Professor Wilson, the late P.B. Shelley, Miss Landon,
Mrs. Hemans, Mr. Pringle, Theodore Hook, and other distinguished Writers--with a beautiful
Engraving.

       *       *       *       *       *

Purchasers of the MIRROR, who may wish to complete their sets are informed, that every volume
is complete in itself, and may be purchased separately. The whole of the numbers are now in
print, and can be procured by giving an order to any Bookseller or Newsvender.

Complete sets Vol. I. to XI. in boards, price £2. 19s. 6d. half bound, £3. 17s.