If now, setting aside all books, whether pretending to gayety or gravity, that are simply empty
and ineffectual, we inquire for the prime distinction between books light in a worthy and unworthy
sense, it will appear to be the distinction between inspiration and alcohol,--between effects
divinely real and effects illusory and momentary. The drunkard dreams of flying, and fancies
the stars themselves left below him, while he is really lying in the gutter. There are those,
and numbers of those, who in reading seek no more than to be cheated in a similar way. Indeed,
to acknowledge a disagreeable fact, there is a very great deal of reading in our day that is
simply a substitute for the potations and "heavy-handed revel" of our Saxon ancestors. In both
cases it is a spurious exaltation of feeling that is sought; in both cases those who for a
moment seem to themselves larks ascending to meet the sun are but worms eating earth.

This celestial lightness, which constitutes the last praise and causes the purest benefit of
books, comes not of any manner of writing; no mere vivacity, though that of a French writer
of memoirs, though that of Arsène Houssaye himself, can compass it; by no knack or talents
is it to be attained. Perfect style has, indeed, many allurements, and is of exceeding price;
but it is no chariot of Elijah, nevertheless. Was ever style more delightful, of its kind,
than Dryden's? Was ever style more heavy and monotonous than that of Swedenborg in his theological
works? But I have read Dryden, not indeed without pleasure in his masterly exquisite ease and
sureness of statement and his occasional touches of admirable good sense, yet with no slightest
liberation of spirit, with no degree, greater or less, of that magical and marvellous evocation,
of inward resource, whose blessed surprise now and then in life makes for us angelic moments,
and feelingly persuades us that our earth also is a star and in the sky. On the other hand,
I once read Swedenborg's "Angelic Wisdom concerning the Divine Love and the Divine Wisdom"
with such enticement, such afflatus, such quickening and heightening of soul, as I cannot describe
without seeming excessive. Until half through the book, I turned every page with the feeling
that before another page I might see the chasm between the real and phenomenal worlds fairly
bridged over. Of course, it disappointed me in the end; but what of that? To have kindled and
for a time sustained the expectation which should render possible such disappointment was a
benefit that a whole Bodleian Library might fail to confer. These benefits come to us not from
the writer as such, but from the man behind the writer. He who dwells aloft amid the deathless
orient imaginations of the human race, easily inhabiting their atmosphere as his native element,--about
him, and him only, are the halos and dawns of immortal youth; and his speech, though with many
babyish or barbarous fancies, many melancholies and vices of the blood compounded, carries
nevertheless some refrain of divine hilarity, that beguiles men of their sordidness, their
sullenness, and low cares, they know not how nor why.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES OF A STRENGTH-SEEKER.

"There goes the smallest fellow in our class."

I was crossing one of the paths that intersect the college green of old Harvard when this remark
fell upon my ears. Looking up, I saw two stalwart Freshmen on their way to recitation, one
of whom had called the other's attention to my humble self by this observation, reminding me
of a distinction which I did not covet.

It was not quite true. There was one, and only one, member of the class of '54 who was as small
as I. Some consolation, though not much, in that! But the air of amused compassion with which
the lusty Down-Easter, who had made me feel what the digito monstrari was, now looked down
on me, raised a feeling of resentment and self-depreciation which left me in no mood to make
a brilliant show of scholarship in construing my "Isocrates" that morning.

"True, I am small, nay, diminutive," I soliloquized, as I wended my way homeward under the
classic umbrage of venerable elms. "But surely this is no fault of mine.--Hold there! Are you
quite sure it's no fault of yours? Are we not responsible to a much greater extent than we
imagine for our physical condition? After making all abatement for insurmountable hereditary
influences upon organization,--after granting to that remorseless law of genealogical transmission
its proper weight,--after admitting the seemingly capricious facts of what the modern French
physiologists call atavism, under which we are made drunkards or consumptives, lunatics or
wise men, short or tall, because of certain dominant traits in some remote ancestor,--after
conceding all this, does not Nature leave it largely in our own power to counteract both physical
and moral tendencies, and to mould the body as well as the mind, if we will only put forth
in action the requisite energy of will?"

This disposition to cavil at received axioms has beset me through life. No sooner does a truth
present itself than I want to see it on its other side. If I hear the Devil spoken ill of,
I puzzle myself to find what can be said in his favor. The man who thus halts between conflicting
opinions, solicitous to give both their due, and to see the truth, pure and simple and entire,
may miss laying hold of great convictions till it is too late for him to act on them; but what
he accepts he generally holds.

My meditations on the subject of my inferior stature led me to a determination to try what
gymnastic practice could do to remedy the defect. For some thirty years, gymnastics, first
introduced into this country, I believe, at the Round-Hill School at Northampton, then under
the charge of Messrs. Cogswell and Bancroft, had languished and revived fitfully at Cambridge.
It was during one of the languishing periods that I began my practice. For some five or six
weeks I kept it up with enthusiasm. Then I began to grow less methodical and regular in my
habits of exercise; and then to find excuses for my delinquencies.

After all, what matter, if, like Paul's, my "bodily presence is weak"? Were not Alexander the
Great and Napoleon small men? Were not Pope, and Dr. Watts, and Moore, and Campbell, and a
long list of authors, artists, and philosophers, considerably under medium height? Were not
Garrick and Kean and the elder Booth all under five feet four or five? Is there not a volume
somewhere in our college library, written by a learned Frenchman, devoted exclusively to the
biography of men who have been great in mind, though diminutive in stature? Is not Lord John
Russell as small almost as I? Have I many inches to grow before I shall be as tall as Dr. Holmes?

These consolatory considerations softened my chagrin at the contemplation of my height.

And so my gymnastic ardor, after a brief blaze, flickered, fell, was ashes. But it was destined
to be soon revived by an incident, trifling in itself, though of a character to assume exaggerated
proportions in the mind of a sensitive boy. A youth, who had considerably the advantage of
me both in inches and in years, and whose overflow of animal spirits required some object to
vent itself upon, selected me as the victim of his ebullient vivacity. He began by tossing
my book down stairs. This seemed to me rather rough play, especially from one with whom I was
not, at the time, on terms of intimacy; but, making allowance for the hilarity of classmates
just let loose from recitation, I picked up, without a thought of resentment, the abused volume,
and took no further notice of the matter. I subsequently found that it was merely the commencement
of a series of similar annoyances. This lively classmate would even play tricks on me at the
dinner table.

What was to be done? I mentioned the grievance to a friend, and he remonstrated with my lively
classmate, threatening him with my serious displeasure. "Pooh! how can he help himself?" was
the reply which came duly to my ears.

Sure enough! How could I help myself? The aggressor was my superior in weight and size. It
was a plain case that I should get badly and ridiculously whipped, if I attempted to cope with
him in any pugilistic encounter. But how would it do to demand of him the satisfaction of a
gentleman? True, I knew nothing of pistol-shooting, and had never handled a small-sword. No
matter for that!

But another consideration speedily drove this scheme of vengeance à l'outrance out of my head.
Not many years before, a peppery little Freshman had been insulted, as he thought, by a Sophomore.
The Soph, I believe, had knocked the young one's hat over his eyes, as they were kicking foot-ball
in the Delta. Freshman sent a challenge, the effect of which was to excite inextinguishable
laughter among the Sophs convened over their cigars in the aggressor's room. Amid roars, one
of the conspirators penned an acceptance, fixing as the weapon, hair triggers,--time, five
o'clock in the morning,--place, the Delta,--second, the bearer, Mr. M----, the writer of this
reply.

It was a cruel business. A sham second was imposed on poor little Fresh. Brave as Julius Caesar,
he sat up all night writing letters and preparing his will. Prompt to the moment, he was on
the chosen ground. An unusually large delegation for such a delicate affair seemed to be present.
One rascal who wore enormous green goggles was pointed out to the innocent as Dr. Von Guldenstubbe,
a celebrated German surgeon, just from Leipsic. Little Fresh shook hands with him gravely,
amid the smothered laughter of the conspirators. The distance was to be five paces; for it
was whispered so as to reach the ear of Fresh, that Soph was thirsting for his heart's blood.
They take their places,--the signal is given,--they fire,--and with a hideous groan and a wild
pirouette, the Soph falls to the ground.

The Freshman is led up near enough to see the fellow's face covered with blood, and to hear
his cries to his friends to put him out of his misery. Intensely agitated, poor little Fresh
is hurried by pretended friends into a carriage, and driven off; and it is not till a week
afterwards that he learns he has been the victim of a hoax.

No! it would never answer for me to run the risk of being sold in any such way as this. I must
select a surer and more practical vengeance. I thought the matter over intently, and finally
resolved that I would put myself on a physical equality with my persecutor, and then meet him
in a fair fight with such weapons as Nature had given us both. I accordingly said to the friend
and classmate who had played the part of intercessor, "Wait two years, and I promise you I
will either make my tormentor apologize or give him such a thrashing as he will remember for
the rest of his life."

Thus was my resolve renewed to accomplish myself as a gymnast, and, above all, to develop my
physical strength. My previous attempts in the gymnasium had been spasmodic and irregular.
Having now a definite object in view, I set about my work in earnest, and went through a daily
systematic practice of a little more than an hour's duration.

The gymnasium was kept by a Mr. Law, and, though ordinary in its accommodations, had a good
arrangement of apparatus, of which I faithfully availed myself. The spring-board, horse, vaulting-apparatus,
parallel bars, suspended rings, horizontal and inclined ladders, pulley-weights, pegs, climbing-rope,
trapezoid, etc., were all put in frequent requisition. My time for exercise was generally in
the evening, when I would find myself almost alone,--while the clicking of balls from the billiard-rooms
and bowling-alleys down-stairs announced that a busy crowd--if amusement may be called a business--were
there assembled.

Naturally indolent, it was not without a severe struggle that I overcame a besetting propensity
to confine myself to sedentary pursuits. The desire of retaliation soon became extinct. My
pledge to my friend and sympathizer, that in two years I would cry quittance to my foe, would
occasionally act as a spur in the side of my intent; but my two best aids in supplying me with
the motive power to keep up my gymnastic practice were habit and progress. What will not habit
make easy to us, whether it be for good or for evil? And what an incentive we have to renewed
effort in finding that we are making actual progress,--that we can do with comparative facility
to-day what we could do only with difficulty yesterday!

Two years, while we are yet on the sunny side of twenty, are no trifle; but for two years I
persistently and methodically went through the exercises of the gymnasium. At the end of that
time I had quite lost sight of my original object in cultivating my athletic powers; for all
annoyances towards me had long since been dropped by my old enemy. But punctually on the day
of expiration, the friend who had listened to my pledge came to me and claimed its fulfilment.
From some evidences which he had recently had of my strength he felt a soothing assurance that
I should have no difficulty in making good my promise.

I accordingly called on the lively young gentleman who two years before had indulged in those
little frolics at my expense. With diplomatic ceremony and circumlocution I introduced the
object of my visit, and wound up with an ultimatum to this effect: There must either be a frank
apology for past indignities, or he must accompany me, each with a friend, to some suitable
spot, and there decide which was "the better man."

If he had been called on to expiate an offence committed before he was breeched, the young
gentleman could not have been more astounded. Two years had made some change in our relative
positions. I was now about his equal in size, and felt a comfortable sense of my superiority,
so far as strength was concerned. My shoulders had broadened, and my muscles been developed,
so as to present to the critical and interested observer a somewhat threatening appearance.
Mr. ---- (who, by the way, was a good fellow in the main) protested that he had never intended
to give me any offence,--that he, in fact, did not remember the circumstances to which I referred,--and
finished by peremptorily declining my proposal. When I reflected on the disparity between us
in strength, which my two years' practice had established, I felt that it would be cowardly
for me to urge the matter further, especially as it was so long a time since he had given me
cause of complaint. I have only to add, that we parted without a collision, and that, in my
heart, I could not help thanking him for the service he had rendered in inciting me to the
regimen which had resulted so beneficially to my health.

The impetus given to my gymnastic education by the little incident I have just related was
continued without abatement through my whole college life. Gradually I acquired the reputation
of being the strongest man in my class. I discovered that with every day's development of my
strength there was an increase of my ability to resist and overcome all fleshly ailments, pains,
and infirmities,--a discovery which subsequent experience has so amply confirmed, that, if
I were called on to condense the proposition which sums it up into a formula, it would be in
these words: Strength is Health.

Until I had renovated my bodily system by a faithful gymnastic training, I had been subject
to nervousness, headache, indigestion, rush of blood to the head, and a weak circulation. It
was torture to me to have to listen to the grating of a slate-pencil, the filing of a saw,
or the scratching of glass. As I grew in strength, my nerves ceased to be impressible to such
annoyances. Another good effect was to take away all appetite for any stimulating food or drink.
Although I had never applied "rebellious liquors" to my blood, I had been in the habit of taking
a bowl of strong coffee morning and night. Now a craving for milk took the place of this want,
and my coffee was gradually diminished to less than a fourth of what had been a customary indulgence.

At last arrived the eagerly looked-for day of release from collegiate restrictions and labors.
I graduated, and the question, so momentous in the history of all adolescents, "What shall
I be?" addressed itself seriously to my mind. My father was desirous that I should choose medicine
for a profession, and become the fourth physician, in lineal sequence, of my family on the
paternal side.

Medicine. I cavilled at it awhile, that I might bring out to view its grimmest and most discouraging
aspect The cares, trials, humiliations of a young physician, his months and years of uncompensated
drudgery, passed in awful review before me. I thought of his toils among the poor and lowly,
the vicious and depraved,--of his broken sleep,--the interruptions of his social ease,--and
then of the many scenes so repugnant to delicate nerves which he has to pass through,--scenes
of pain and insanity, of maimed and severed limbs, and all the eccentricities and fearful forms
of disease. These considerations pressed with such weight on my mind that for a time my ancestral
craft was in danger of being ignominiously rejected by me. Indeed, I began to think seriously
of adopting a very different vocation. And here I will make a confession, if the gentle reader
will take it confidentially.

It is a familiar fact, that every college-boy has to pass through an attack of the rhyming
frenzy as regularly as the child has to submit to measles and the whooping-cough. A less frequent,
but not less trying complaint, is that which manifests itself in a passion for the stage and
in an espousal of the delusion that one was born for a great actor. At any rate, this last
was the type which my juvenile malaise-du-coeur finally assumed.

I have heard of a young gentleman who, whenever he was hard up for money, went to his nearest
relatives and threatened them with the publication of a volume of his original poems. This
threat never failed to open the paternal purse. I do not know what effect the intimation of
my histrionic aspirations would have had; but one fine day I found myself on my way to Rochester,
in the State of New York.

My rôle of dramatic characters was a very modest one for a beginner. It embraced only Richelieu,
Bertram, Brutus, Lear, Richard, Shylock, Sir Giles Overreach, Hamlet, Othello, and Macbeth.
My principal literary recreation for several years had been in studying these parts; and as
I knew them by heart, I did not doubt that a few rehearsals would put me in possession of the
requisite stage-business. And yet my familiarity with the theatre was very limited. I had never
been behind the scenes. Once, with a classmate, I had penetrated in the daytime to the stage
of the old Federal-Street Theatre, and looked with awe on the boards formerly trodden by the
elder Kean; but a growl from that august functionary, the prompter, sent us back in quick retreat,
and I had never ventured again into those sacred precincts.

Arrived at Rochester,--which place I had selected for my début because of its remoteness from
home,--I looked in, the evening of my arrival, to see the performances at the theatre. It was
a hall of humble dimensions, seating an audience of five or six hundred. The piece was a travesty
of "Hamlet," neither edifying nor amusing. A little of the couleur-de-rose which had flushed
my prospect faded that night; but the few friends at home to whom I had confided my plans had
so pertinaciously assured me that I--the most diffident man in the world--could never appear
before an audience without letting them see I was shaky in the knees, that I resolved to do
what I could to show my depreciators they were false prophets.

And so I called on the manager,--with a beating heart, as you may suppose. He was a small,
quiet, gentlemanly person, whom I regret I cannot, consistently with historical truth, show
up as a Crummles. But not even Dickens could have found any salient trait for ridicule in the
man. Frankly and kindly he went into the statistics of the theatrical business, and showed
me, that, unless I was rich, and could afford to play for my own amusement, the stage held
out few inducements; it was barren of promise to a young man anxious to make himself independent
of the world.

I did not reply, "Perish the lucre!" but said that I would be content, in the early part of
my career, to labor for reputation. He soon satisfied me that he could not give up his stage
to an experimentalist, and I did not urge my suit; but bade Mr. S. good morning, and, a day
or two afterwards, started for Niagara. Here, wet by the mist and listening to the roar of
the great cataract, I speedily forgot my chagrin, and took a not unfriendly leave of the illusions
which had lured me on to try my fortune on the stage. Even now they return occasionally with
all their fascination.

While at Rochester, as I was passing through the principal street, I met a crowd assembled
about a lifting-machine. On making trial of it, I found I could lift four hundred and twenty
pounds. I had then been for four years a gymnast, and I supposed my practice would have qualified
me to make the crowd stare at my achievement. But the result was far from triumphant. I found
what many other gymnasts will find, that main strength, by which I mean the strength of the
truckman and the porter, cannot be acquired in the ordinary exercises of the gymnasium.

Returning home, I began the study of anatomy and physiology, and in the autumn of 1854 entered
the Harvard Medical School. The question of the extent to which human strength can be developed
had long been invested with a scientific interest to my mind. One of the greatest lifting feats
on authentic record is that of Thomas Topham, an Englishman, who in Bath Street, Cold Bath
Fields, London, on the 28th of May, 1741, lifted three hogsheads of water, said to weigh, with
the connections, eighteen hundred and thirty-six pounds. In the performance of this feat, Topham
stood on a raised platform, his hands grasping a fixture on either side, and a broad strap
over his shoulders communicating with the weight. An immense concourse of persons was assembled
on the occasion,--the performance having been announced as "in honor of Admiral Vernon," or
rather, "in commemoration of his taking Porto Bello with six ships only." Being a descendant
myself from the Vernon family of Haddon Hall, Derbyshire, England, I have reserved it for future
genealogical inquiry to learn whether the Admiral was connected with that branch of the Vernons.
If so, a somewhat remarkable coincidence is involved.

I now informed my father that I intended to go through a series of experiments in lifting.
He was afraid I should injure myself, and expressly forbade any such practice on his premises.
To gratify him, I gave up testing the question for a whole year.

But the desire re-awoke, and I had frequent arguments with my father in the endeavor to overcome
his objections.

"Look at that man," he said to me one day,--pointing to a large, stout individual in front
of us,--"you might practise lifting all your life, and never be able to lift as much as that
big fellow."

"Let me construct a lifting-apparatus in the back-yard, and I will soon prove to you that you
are mistaken," I replied.

Finding that I was bent on the experiment, he at length gave a reluctant consent.

It was now the August of 1855, and I was in my twenty-second year. My first lifting-apparatus
was constructed in the following manner. I first sank into the ground a hogshead, and into
the hogshead a flour-barrel. Then I lowered to the bottom of the barrel a rope having at the
end a round stick transversely balanced, about four inches in diameter and fifteen inches long.
A quantity of gravel, nearly sufficient to bury the stick, was then thrown into the barrel;
some oblong stones were placed across the stick and across and between one another, and the
interstices filled with smaller stones and gravel. When I had by this method about two-thirds
filled the barrel, taking care to keep the axis of the rope in correspondence with the long
axis of the barrel, I judged I had a sufficient weight for a first trial. I now formed a loop
in the end of the rope over the top of the barrel, and put through it a piece of a hoe-handle,
about two feet long; and standing astride of the hogshead, and holding the handle with one
hand before me and the other behind,--straightening my body, previously a little flexed,--with
mouth closed, head up, chest out, and shoulders down,--I succeeded in lifting the barrel, containing
a weight of between four and five hundred pounds, some five or six inches from the bottom of
the hogshead.

It was no great feat, after all, considering that I had been for five years a gymnast. I found
that I was inharmoniously developed in many points of my frame,--was perilously weak in the
sides, between the shoulders, and at the back of the head. However, the day after this trial,
I succeeded in lifting the same weight with somewhat less difficulty. This induced me to add
on a few pounds; and in three or four weeks I could lift between six and seven hundred. I now
had the satisfaction of seeing the stout gentleman, whom a few months before my father had
pointed out as possessed of a strength I could never attain to, introduced to an inspection
of my apparatus. Through the blinds of a back-parlor window I watched his movements, as, encouraged
by pater-familias, he drew off his coat, moistened his hands, and undertook to "snake up" the
big weight. An ignominious failure to start the barrel was the result. The stout gentleman
tugged till he was so red in the face that apoplexy seemed imminent, and then he dejectedly
gave it up. The reputation he had long enjoyed of being one of the "strongest men about" must
henceforth be a thing of the past till it fades into a myth.

In the December of 1855 I was admitted to the arcana of the dissecting-room, and forthwith
commenced some experiments with  the view of testing the sustaining power of human bones. Some
one had told me, that, in lifting a heavy weight, there was danger of fracturing the neck of
the thigh-bone; but my experiments satisfied me, that, if properly positioned, it would safely
bear a strain of two or three thousand pounds. And so I concluded that I might securely continue
my practice of lifting till I reached the last-named limit.

In order to get all possible hints from the inspiration and experience of the past, I studied
some of the ancient statues. The specimens of Grecian statuary at the Boston Athenæum were
objects of my frequent contemplation,--especially the Farnesian Hercules. From this I derived
a proper conception of the bodily outline compatible with the exercise of the greatest amount
of strength. I was particularly struck by the absence of all exaggeration in the muscular developments
as represented. I saw by this statue that a Hercules must be free from superfluous flesh, neatly
made, and finely organized,--that form and quality were of more account than quantity in his
formation. Some years earlier I might have been more attracted by the Apollo Belvedere; but
it was a Hercules I dreamed of becoming, and the Apollo was but the incipient and potential
Hercules. Two other statues that shared my admiration and study were the Quoit-Thrower and
the Dying Gladiator. From the careful inspection of all these relics of ancient Art I obtained
some valuable hints as to my own physical deficiencies. I learned that the upper region of
my chest needed developing, and that in other points I had not yet reached the artist's ideal
of a strong man.

Good casts of these and other masterpieces in statuary may be had at a trifling cost. Why are
they not generally introduced into the gymnasia attached to our colleges and schools? The habitual
contemplation of such works could not fail to have a good effect upon the physical bearing
and development of the young. We are the creatures of imitation. I remember, at the school
I attended in my seventh year, the strongest boy among my mates was quite round-shouldered.
Fancying that he derived his strength from his stoop, I began to imitate him; and it was not
till I learned that he was strong in spite of his round shoulders, and not because of them,
that I gave up aping his peculiarity.

On the 29th of January, 1856, I lifted seven hundred pounds in Bailey's Gymnasium, Franklin
Street, Boston. The exhibition created great surprise among the lookers-on; and at that time
it was, perhaps, an extraordinary feat; but since the extension and growth of the lifting mania,
it would not be regarded by the knowing ones as anything to marvel at. The fourth of April
following, my lifting capacity had reached eight hundred and forty pounds.

On Fast-Day of that year, two Irishmen knocked at my door and asked to see the strong man.
I presented myself, and they told me there was great curiosity among the "ould counthrymen"
in the vicinity to ascertain if one Pat Farren, the strongest Irishman in Roxbury, could lift
my weight. "Would it be convanient for me to let him thry?" "Certainly,--and I think he'll
lift it," I modestly added.

Soon afterwards a delegation of Irishmen, rather startling from its numbers, entered the yard.
Among them was Mr. Farren. They surrounded my lifting-apparatus, while I, unseen, surveyed
them from a back window. I saw Mr. Farren take the handle, straddle the hogshead, throw himself
into a lifting posture, and, straining every muscle to its utmost tension, give a tremendous
pull. But the weight made no sign; and his friends, thinking he was merely feeling it, said,
"Wait a bit,--Pat'll have it up the next pull." Mr. Farren rested a moment,--then threw off
his coat, rubbed his hands, and, seizing the handle a second time, tugged away at it till his
muscles swelled and his frame quivered. But he failed in starting the barrel, and a burst of
laughter from his friends and backers announced his defeat.

It is now but justice to Mr. Farren to say that it could hardly be expected of him to lift
such a weight at either the first trial or the second. A want of confidence, or the maladjustment
of the rope, might have interfered with the full exercise of his strength. I need not say that
his discomfiture was witnessed by me from my hiding-place with the liveliest satisfaction;
for I had begun to pride myself on being able to outlift any man in the country.

