Waites, or waits, formerly wayghtes is derived from the latter noun, and originally signified
hautbois, (or hautbois, as we have it in English,) of which it is not unworthy remark, there
is no singular number. From the instrument its signification was, after a time, transferred
to the performers themselves; concerning whom, it is well known,.the appellation is now applied
to all who follow the practice above adverted to, especially those who, at the approach of.
Christmas, salute us with their nightly concerts.

The wayghtes of ancient times were, as some historians say, so called, because they attended
or waited on potentates, judges, magistrates, and bodies corporate, pomp and processions, &c.;
they were also sometimes appointed to keep a sort of Watch at night, and were then generally
decorated with superb dresses, splendid cloaks, &c. In Rymers' Fardera there is an account
of such an establishment, of the minstrels and waites who were in the service of the court
of Edward IV., wherein is mentioned "a waite that nighteleye, from Michaelmas to Shrove Thorsday,
pipeth the watch within this court;" "i. fewer times, in the somere nightes iij. times." Todd
derives the term waits from wahts, (Goth.) nocturnal itinerant musicians, (Beaumont and Fletcher;)
Bayley, on account of their waiting on magistrates, &c.; or of guet, a watch; or from the French
guetter, to watch, because anciently they kept a sort of watch a night. From what I have narrated,
then, it appears that the persons formerly called waites, or waits, were musical watchmen,
the word implying obees. They were, in fact, minstrels, at first annexed to the king's court,
who sounded the watch every night; and in towns paraded the streets during winter, to prevent
theft, &c. At Exeter they were set up, with a regular salary, in 1400; and although suppressed
by the Puritans, were reinstated in 1660. M.A. Boyer, in his French and English Dictionary,
Rivington. 1747, under the word waits, s. has the following: "in the French, sorte de hautbois,
(ho-boy,) corresponding with the signification of the term waits, as itinerant or wandering
(music or) musicians. These nocturnal perambulators, it seems, were anciently called, as they
now are, waits; and persons, bearing the same name, still go about our streets during the month
of December, (previous to the 25th.) Whatsoever may be the reasons or the motives of those
(maunderers) who now call themselves waits, I must leave for the consideration of such as are
favoured with their visits. I am of opinion it can have neither allusion nor similitude to
the Christmas carol as some have suggested, which was an imitation, however humble, of 'The
glory to God on high,' &c., as sung by the angels who hovered over the fields of Bethlehem
on the morning of our Saviour's nativity." It is true, indeed, that our modern angels, the
waits of 1897, have hovered about, and they may (without a pun) be styled angels (of darkness),
not only on account of the watch they keep a nights, but on account of those spirit-uous propensities,
for the attainment of which, principally, some have supposed, we are indebted to them for their
waits, and also for their wait-ing upon us on the day ycleped boxing-day.

But to return to our subject; independent of the origin of the waits, or of the persons so
called, as relates to the institution in England, which is, comparatively, of modern date,
it appears there were peculiar to the Romans a description of individuals, who, in their offices
and character, answered to our waits, and from whom there is no doubt the latter were derived;
these, among the Romans, were called spondaulae, from which I conceive the waightes, or waites,
of our ancient kings were borrowed. The Roman waites, or spondaulae, were a description of
vocal and instrumental musicians, who performed a hymn, whose measure consisted of spondees,
(a poetic foot, formed of two long syllables,) which was sung, accompanied by the flute, or
other wind instrument, while the priest offered the sacrifice, and the incense was burning,
to procure the favour of the gods; the waits, or spondaulae, continuing their music, to prevent
the priest from hearing sounds of ill omen, which might disturb the ceremony, or divert his
attention. It has been suggested, in this view of the origin of the waits, which many writers
consider to be the real source of the custom, that they are altogether anti-christian, and
of heathen and idolatrous foundation, and of consequence have neither allusion to, nor connexion
with, our festivities at Christmas at any period.

City Road.

L. DESORMEAUX.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF LOVE.

FROM THE MADRIGALS OF GUARINI.

(For the Mirror.)

  Cupid one day, in luckless hour,
  Observed a bee from flow'r to flow'r,
    Hurrying on busy wing;
  Thinking to gain the honied prize,
  He strove the insect to surprise,
    But quickly felt its sting.

  Fired with revenge, he flew away
  To where asleep my Julia lay,
    On mossy bank reclin'd;
  And while he sought relief to sip,
  By kisses from her balmy lip,
    He left the sting behind.

  Thus if I now, in hours of bliss,
  From her sweet mouth should steal a kiss,
    I after feel the smart;
  For when her rosy lips I've press'd,
  And think myself supremely blest,
    I bear the sting at heart!

E.L.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOTTENHAM HIGH CROSS.

(For the Mirror.)

On entering Tottenham, on the right from London, is to be seen the following inscription over
eight alms-houses:--

  1600.
  Not vnto vs,
  O Lord--
  Not vnto vs--But
  vnto thy name
  give ye glorie.

Ps. 115, v. i.

"Balthaza Zanchez, born in Spain, in the citie of Shere, in Estramadvra, is the fownder of
these eyght Alma-Houses for the relieefe of eyght poore men and women of the Town of Tattenham
High Crasse."

The founder of these alms-houses, Balthazar Zanches, was confectioner to Philip II. of Spain,
with whom he came over to England, and was the first who exercised that art in this country.
He became a Protestant, and died in 1602. It is said that he lived in the house, now the George
and Vulture Inn; at the entrance of which he had fixed the arms of England, in a garter, supported
by a lion and griffin, and with the initials E.R.: over another door, 1587.

Among the ancient possessors of the manor of Tottenham, was Robert Bruce, king of Scotland,
from whom the Manor-House obtained the name of Bruce Castle, which it still retains.--At the
end of Page Green stands a remarkable circular clump of elms, called the Seven Sisters; and
on the west side of the great road is St. Loy's well, which is said to be always full, and
never to run over; and opposite the vicarage house rises a spring, called Bishop's Well, of
which the common people report many strange cures.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCANA OF SCIENCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Outline of the History of Gas Lighting. In 1668, when some regulations were made for improving
the streets of London, the inhabitants were reminded to hang out their lanterns at the usual
time; and in 1690 an order was issued to hang out a light, or lamp, every night as soon as
it was dark, from Michaelmas to Christmas. By an act of the common council in 1716, all housekeepers,
whose houses fronted any street, lane, or passage, were required to hang out, every dark night,
one or more lights, to burn from six to eleven o'clock, under the penalty of one shilling.
In 1736, the lord mayor and common council applied to parliament for an act to enable them
to erect lamps; and in 1744 they obtained farther powers for lighting the city. Birmingham
was first lighted by lamps in 1733, so that in this improvement it preceded the metropolis."--Beckman's
History of Inventions.

It may not be disagreeable to our readers to trace the brilliant lights by which the streets
are illuminated, from the obscure recesses of nature, and to show by what steps that which
was once thought simply an object of curiosity, has been applied to a practical purpose of
the most useful and agreeable kind.

The inflammable gases were known originally for their direful effects rather than their useful
qualities. Miners were acquainted with two of them, called the choke damp and the fire damp,
long before the establishment of the Royal Society; but the earliest printed account of either
occurs in its Transactions, in the year 1667. The paper in which it is contained, is entitled,
"A Description of a Well and Earth in Lancashire taking Fire, by a Candle approaching to it.
Imparted by Thomas Shirley, Esq an eye-witness."

Dr. Stephen Hales was the first person who procured an elastic fluid from the actual distillation
of coal. His experiments with this object are related in the first volume of his Vegetable
Statics, published in 1726. From the distillation of "one hundred and fifty-eight grains of
Newcastle coal, he states that he obtained one hundred and eighty cubic inches of air, which
weighed fifty-one grains, being nearly one third of the whole." The inflammability of the fluid
he thus produced was no part of his inquiry; and though it is now deemed its most useful and
important property, appears to have excited no attention till several years after.

In the "Philosophical Transactions" for 1733, some properties of coal-gas are detailed in a
paper called, "An Account of the Damp Air in a Coal-pit of Sir James Lowther, sunk within Twenty
Yards of the Sea." This paper, as it contains some striking facts relating to the inflammability
and other properties of coal-gas, is deserving of particular attention.

The principal properties of coal-gas are here related with remarkable minuteness and precision;
and as the writer exhibited them to different members of the Royal Society, and showed that
after keeping the gas sometime, it still retained its elasticity and inflammability, it is
remarkable, that the philosophers of the time undertook no experiments with the view of applying
it to useful purposes.

Dr. John Clayton, in an extract from a letter in the "Philosophical Transactions" for 1735,
calls gas the "spirit" of coal; and came to a knowledge of its inflammability by an accident.
This "spirit" chanced to catch fire, by coming in contact with a candle, as it was escaping
from a fracture in one of his distillatory vessels. By preserving the gas in bladders, he frequently
diverted his friends, by exhibiting its inflammability. This is the nearest approach to the
idea of practically applying this property.

The subject attracted the attention of Dr. Richard Watson, who published the results of his
researches in the second volume of his "Chemical Essays." He dwells upon the elasticity and
inflammability of coal-gas; and remarked, that it retains these properties after passing through
a great quantity of water.

The man who first applied the inflammability of gas to the purposes of illumination, was Mr.
Murdoch. This gentleman, residing at Soho, near Birmingham, that hot-bed of ingenuity and mechanical
science, on occasion of the celebration of the peace of 1802, covered the works of Soho with
a light and splendour that astonished and delighted all the population of the surrounding country.
Mr. Murdoch had not attained to this perfection without having had many difficulties to encounter.
In the year 1792, he used coal gas for lighting his house and offices, at Redruth, in Cornwall;
and in 1797 he again made a similar use of it at Old Cunnock, in Ayrshire. At Soho, he constructed
an apparatus which enabled him to exhibit his plan on a larger scale than any he had heretofore
attempted. His experiments were then seduously continued, with the able assistance of Mr. Southern
and Mr. Henry Creighton, with a view to ascertain not only the best modes of making, but also
of purifying and burning gas, so as to prevent either the smell or the smoke from being offensive.

Previous to the public display made of the illuminating properties of gas, at Soho, it had
been applied to similar purposes, by a M. Le Bon, of Paris. A friend of the gentlemen at Soho,
wrote from Paris a letter, dated November 8, 1801, to that establishment, informing them, that
a person had lighted up his house and gardens with the gas obtained from wood and coal, and
had it in contemplation to light up the city of Paris. This is an important fact in the detail
of the history of gas-lighting; and we should be glad of further information respecting the
steps which led M. Le Bon to the results which he appears to have obtained, and also respecting
the fortunes which subsequently attended the invention in France. However, M. Le Bon's exhibitions
have a remarkable connexion with the progress of the invention in England: they seem, indeed,
almost to have diverted it from its natural course, which certainly would have led from the
illumination at Soho to its public adoption.

In 1804, Dr. Henry delivered a course of lectures on chemistry, at Manchester, in which he
showed the mode of producing gas from coal, and the facility and advantage of its use. Dr,
Henry analyzed the composition and investigated the properties of carburetted hydrogen gas.
His experiments were numerous and accurate, and made upon a variety of substances; and having
obtained the gas from wood, peat, different kinds of coal, oil, wax, &c. he endeavoured to
estimate the relative quantity of light yielded by each.

In 1805, Mr. Samuel Clegg, to whom the world is much indebted for the improvements he subsequently
introduced into the manufacture of gas, having left Soho, directed his attention to the construction
of gas apparatus. The first he erected was in the cotton mill of Mr. H Lodge, near Halifax,
in Yorkshire. Mr. Josiah Pemberton, one of those ingenious men happily not rare in the centre
of our manufactures, whose minds are perpetually employed on the improvement of mechanical
contrivances, and who, as soon as they have accomplished one discovery, leave others to reap
the benefit, and themselves pursue the chase alter new inventions, had for some time been experimenting
on the nature of gas. A resident of Birmingham, his attention was probably roused by the exhibition
at Soho; and such was the fertility of his invention, and his practical skill as a mechanic,
that it has been observed by those who know him, that he never undertook to make an article
without inventing an improvement in its construction. About 1806, he exhibited gas-lights in
a variety of forms, and with great brilliance, at the front of his manufactory in Birmingham.

In 1808 he constructed an apparatus, applicable to several uses, for Mr. Benjamin Cooke, a
manufacturer of brass tubes, gilt toys, and other articles. In 1808, Mr. Murdoch communicated
to the Royal Society a very interesting account of his successful application of coal gas to
lighting the extensive establishment of Messrs. Phillips and Lea. For this communication, Count
Rumford's gold medal was presented to him. Mr. Murdoch's statements threw great light on the
comparative advantage of gas and candles, and contained much useful information on the expenses
of production and management.

Early in 1809, Mr. Samuel Clegg communicated to the Society of Arts his plan of an apparatus
for lighting manufactories with gas, for which he received a silver medal. In this year also,
Mr. Clegg erected a gas apparatus in Mr. Harris's manufactory at Coventry.

It was natural to suppose that all these circumstances should eventually produce an impression
on the country; consequently about this time much attention was excited towards gas-lighting,
and much utility anticipated from a general application of it to public purposes. In this year
1809, accordingly, the first application was made to parliament for an act to incorporate a
company, with the view of carrying on its processes more effectually and beneficially. The
movers in this project were some of the more intelligent and persevering subscribers to a New
Light and Heat Company, projected by Mr. Winsor. They were opposed by some on the ground of
their designs being visionary and fraught with danger; and by Mr. Murdoch on the plea of priority
of invention, which entitled him to exclusive privileges if he chose to avail himself of them.
This gave rise to a long and minute investigation of the subject before a committee of the
House of Commons. The application terminated unsuccessfully; and the testimony of Mr. Aceum,
exposed him to the animadversions of Mr. Brougham. In 1810, however, the application was renewed
by the same parties, and though some opposition was encountered, and considerable expense incurred,
the bill passed, but not without great alterations; and the present London and Westminster
Chartered Gas-Light and Coke Company was established. The proceedings of this company after
the act was obtained comprise a most important period in the history of this invention. During
the first few years of their operations large sums of money were expended in experiments, and
very few beneficial results were obtained. The undertaking was complicated and difficult, and
not only required the guidance of experience, but the assistance of a scientific education
and a fertile invention. These requisites were found in the person of Mr. Samuel Clegg, under
whose able direction and superintendence the principal works of the company, at their different
stations, were erected. From this period various improvements were gradually introduced into
almost every part of the apparatus.

For reasons which are not assigned, in 1817, Mr. Clegg retired from the service of this establishment.

In this year, 1817, at the three stations belonging to the Chartered Gas Company, twenty-five
chaldron of coal were daily carbonized, producing 300,000 cubic feet of gas, which was equal
to the supply of 75,000 Argand lamps, each yielding the light of six candles. At the City Gas
Works, in Dorset-street, Black-friars, the quantity of coal daily carbonized amounted to, three
chaldron, which afforded a quantity of gas adequate to the supply of 1,500 Argand lamps; so
that twenty-eight chaldron of coal were daily carbonized at that time, and 76,500 lights supplied
by those two companies only.

At this period the principal object of attention in the manufacture of gas was its purification.
Mr. D. Wilson, of Dublin, took out a patent for purifying coal gas by means of the chemical
action of ammoniacal gas. Another plan was devised by Mr. Reuben Phillips, of Exeter, who obtained
a patent for the purification of coal gas by the use of dry lime. Mr. G. Holworthy, in 1818,
took out a patent for a method of purifying it by causing the gas, in a highly-condensed state,
to pass through iron retorts heated to a dark red. For this object and several others, having
in view improvements upon the ordinary method, many other patents were procured.

OIL gas now appeared in the field as a rival of COAL gas. In 1815, Mr. John Taylor had obtained
a patent for an apparatus for the decomposition of oil and other animal substances; but the
circumstance which more particularly attracted the public attention to be directed to oil gas
was the erection of the patent apparatus at Apothecary's Hall, by Messrs. Taylors and Martineau;
and the way was prepared for an application to parliament for the establishment of an Oil Gas
Company by sundry papers in journals, and by the recommendations of Sir William Congreve, who
had been employed by the Secretary of State to inspect the state of the gas manufactories in
the metropolis. This application, made in the year 1825, proved unfortunate.

In Sir William's Reports is the following account, beginning with the London Gas-Light and
Coke Company:--

At the Peter-street station the whole number of the retorts which they had fixed was 300; the
greatest number working at any time daring the last year, 22l; the least 87. Fifteen gasometers,
varying in dimensions, the contents computed on an average at 20,626 cubic feet each, amounting
to 309,385 cubic feet altogether; but never quite filled; the working contents estimated at
18,626 cubic feet each--in the whole at 279,390 cubic feet. The extent of mains belonging to
this station is about fifty-seven miles, there being two separate mains in some of the streets;
the produce of gas from 10,000 to 12,000 cubic feet from a chaldron of coals. The weekly consumption
of coal is reckoned at 42 bushels for each retort, amounting to about 602 chaldrons; and taking
the average number of retorts worked at this station at about 153, would give an annual consumption
of coals of upwards of 9,282 chaldrons, producing 111,384,000 cubic feet of gas.

The average number of lights during the year 1822 was 10,660 private, 2,248 street lamps, theatres,
3,894.

At the Brick-lane works, the number of retorts which were fixed was 371, the greatest number
worked 217, and the least 60. The number of gasometers 12, each averaging 18,427 cubic feet,
amounting in the whole to 221,131 cubic feet; and their average working contents 197,124 cubic
feet. The average number of retorts worked was 133; the coals consumed 8,060 chaldrons; the
quantity of gas produced 96,720.000 cubic feet; the number of lamps 1,978 public, 7,366 private,
through 40 miles of mains.

At the Curtain-road establishment the whole number of retorts was 240; the greatest number
worked in the last year 80; the lowest 21. The number of gasometers 6, average contents of
each 15,077 cubic feet; the contents of the whole 90,467; another gasometer containing 16,655
cubic feet; the average number of retorts worked 55; the coals consumed 3,336 chaldrons; quantity
of gas produced 40,040,000 cubic feet; the number of lamps supplied 3,860 private, and 629
public, through 25 miles of mains.

The whole annual consumption of coals by the three different stations was 20,678; the quantity
of gas produced 248,000,000 cubic feet: the whole number of lamps lighted by this company 30,735,
through 122 miles of mains.

The City of London Gas-Light Company, Dorset-street:--The number of retorts fixed 230; the
number of gasometers 6; the largest 39,270 cubic feet, the smallest 5,428 cubic feet; two large
additional gasometers nearly completed, contents of each 27,030 cubic feet, making in the whole
181,282 cubic feet. The number of lamps lighted 5,423 private, and 2,413 public, through 50
miles of mains. The greatest number of retorts worked at a time (in 1811) 130, the least 110,
average 170. The quantity of coals carbonized amounted to 8,840 chaldrons; produced 106,080,000
cubic feet of gas.

The South London Gas-Light and Coke Company, at Bankside:--The number of retorts was 140; gasometers
3; the contents of the whole 41,110 cubic feet; and their mains from 30 to 40 miles in length.
At their other station in Wellington-street, they had then no retorts in action; but three
large gasometers were erected, containing together 73,565 cubic feet, which were supplied from
Bankside till the retorts were ready to work.

The Imperial Gas-Light and Coke Company were erecting at their Hackney station two gasometers
of 10,000 cubic feet each, and about to erect four more of the same size. At their Pancras
station they had marked out ground for six gasometers of 10,000 cubic feet each.

In the year 1814, there was only one gasometer in Peter-street, of 14,000 cubic feet, belonging
to the Chartered Gas-Light Company, then the only company established in London. At present
there are four great companies, having altogether 47 gasometers at work, capable of containing
in the whole 917,940 cubic feet of gas, supplied by 1,315 retorts, and these consuming 33,000
chaldron of coals in the year, and producing 41,000 chaldron of coke. The whole quantity of
gas generated annually being upwards of 397,000,000 cubic feet, by which 61,203 private, and
7,268 public or street lamps are lighted in the metropolis. In addition to these great companies,
there are several private companies, whose operations are not included in the foregoing statements.--Abridged
from Matthews's History of Gas-Lighting, and the London Magazine, Dec. 1827.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON LYRICS.

MAGOG'S PROPHECY.

  Pastor cum traheret per freta navibus.

HOR. lib. i. od. 15.

  As late, of civic glory vain,
  The Lord Mayor drove down Mincing-lane,
  The progress of the baimer'd train
    To lengthen, not to shorten:

  Gigantic Magog, vex'd with heat,
  Thus to be made the rabble's treat,
  Check'd the long march in Tower-street,
    To tell his Lordship's fortune.

  "Go, man thy barge for Whitehall Stair;
  Salute th' Exchequer Barons there,
  Then summon round thy civic chair
    To dinner Whigs and Tories--
  Bid Dukes and Earls thy hustings climb;
  But mark my work, Matthias Prime,
  Ere the tenth hour the scythe of Time
    Shall amputate, thy glories.

  "Alas! what loads of food I see,
  What Turbots from the Zuyder Zee,
  What Calipash, what Calipee,
    What Salad and what Mustard:
  Heads of the Church and limbs of Law,
  Vendors of Calico and Straw,
  Extend one sympathetic jaw
    To swallow Cake and Custard.

  "Thine armour'd Knights their steeds discard'
  To quaff thy wine 'through helmet barr'd,'
  While K.C.B.'s, with bosoms starr'd,
    Within their circle wedge thee.
  Even now I see thee standing up,
  Raise to thy lip 'the loving cup,'
  Intent its ruby tide to sup,
    And bid thy hearers pledge thee.

  "But, ah! how fleeting thy renown!
  Thus treading on the heel of Brown;
  How vain thy spangled suit, thy gown
    Intended for three waiters:
  Ere Lansdowne's speech is at an end,
  I see a board of lamps descend,
  Whose orbs in bright confusion blend,
    And strew the floor with splinters.

  "Their smooth contents spread far and near,
  And in one tide impetuous smear
  Knight, Waiter, Liveryman, and Peer:
    Nay, even his Royal Highness
  The falling board no longer props,
  Owns, with amaze, the unwelcome drops
  And, premature anointment, swaps
    For oozy wet his dryness.

  "Fear shrieks in many a varied tone,
  Pale Beauty mourns her spotted zone,
  And heads and bleeding knuckles own
    The glittering prostration.
  Behold! thou wip'st thy crimson chin,
  And all is discord, all is din;
  While scalded waiters swear thee in
    With many an execration.

  "Yet, Lucas, smile in Fortune's spite;
  Dark mornings often change to bright;
  Ne'er shall this omen harm a wight
    So active and so clever.
  How buoyant, how elastic thou!
  With a lamp halo round thy brow,
  Prophetic Magog dubs thee now
    A Lighter man--than ever."

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL APPETITES.

