I have been more than once in company with Washington Irving, a most amiable man and great
genius, but not lively in conversation. The engraved portraits I have seen of him are not very
like him. He frequented the reading-room of Galignani at Paris, and seemed to have some literary
connexions with him. There I saw Captain Medwin, the author of the book called Lord Byron's
Conversations, which I believe to have been accurately reported. He was with his friend Grattan,
the author of High-ways and Bye-ways. I was not personally acquainted with either of them.
Grattan's flat nose is somewhat concealed in the print given of him in Colburn's Magazine,
where this author, of course, makes a distinguished figure.

The late Professor Pictet, of Geneva, who had spent some of his early days in England, and
was very fond of it, told me some curious anecdotes of his countryman De Lolme, whose book
on the English constitution is much more commended than it deserves. He once endeavoured to
set up a rival Journal to Old Swinton's Courrier de l'Europe, but his absurd denial of Rodney's
victory ruined the project. De Vergennes, the French minister, patronized it. Brissot was connected
with Swinton in the above-named Journal. One of Swinton's sons holds a high situation in the
British Government in India:--another commanded a ship in the Company's service. Old Swinton
was a Scotch jacobite, and forfeited.

Horace Walpole, who died Earl of Orford, was a little old man with small features--very lively
and amusing,--who talked just as he wrote: but a little too fond of baubles and curiosities.
He had a witty mind, but not a great one:--yet he was a man of genius. His family was ancient,
but his vanity made him always endeavour to represent it of much more consequence than it was.
They had a great deal of the Norfolk squierarchy about them. He could not bear his uncle Horace,
the diplomatist, whose son, the grandfather of the present earl, with his little tie-wig, looked
like an old-fashioned glover.

I have mentioned Mrs. Macauley, the historian. She had a dog latterly, of which she made a
great pet, and on being asked why she bestowed so much care on it, she answered--"Why! are
you aware whence it came? It is a true republican, and has been stroked by the hand of Washington!"
The event of the French Revolution maddened her with joy; but when the news came of Louis the
Sixteenth's escape, and before she heard he had been brought back, she took to her bed, wrote
to her friends that she should die of the disappointment--and did die. She complained that
Dr. Graham had given her a love-potion! Her young husband used her ill.

Tom Warton, the poet, was a good-natured man, but addicted to low company. He was fond of

  "Smoking his pipe upon an alehouse bench;"

He was tutor to Colonel North, the son of the minister, who thought he neglected him. This
connexion, perhaps, led him to write the Life of Sir Thomas Pope, or rather that this family
were founders of Warton's college. He also wrote the life of the President Bathurst, who was
elder brother of Sir Benjamin Bathurst, a commercial man, father to the first Lord Bathurst,
the friend of Pope the poet, and who lived to the age of ninety, in possession of his faculties,--always
calling his son, the Chancellor, "the old man!" He was one of Queen Anne's twelve peers--but
so rapid has been the extinction and change, that the Bathursts are now considered old nobility.
He sprung from one of the Grey Coat families in the weald of Kent, the clothiers.

Old Dr. Farmer, the head of Emanuel College, Cambridge, Prebendary of Canterbury, and afterwards
of St. Paul's, or Westminster, used to frequent a club in London, to which I belonged. He was
at first reserved and silent: but his forte was humour and drollery. At Cambridge he neglected
forms and ceremonies in his college too much: and was in all his glory when in dishabille in
his study, with his cat by his side, and his Shakspeare tracts about him. He found no literature
at Canterbury, and was disgusted with his brother members of the cathedral: quaint Dean Horne,
and chattering romancing Dr. Berkeley, and his rhodomontading wife, were not suited to him,
and as little her son Monke Berkeley, of whom she gave such an absurd and mendacious memoir,
and who had none of his celebrated grandfather Bishop Berkeley's genius. Farmer had some cleverness,
but no leading talent. He collected an immense quantity of rare and forgotten old English books--especially
poetry and the drama--at a trifling price. Todd, the learned editor of Milton, Spencer, &c.,
was then a member of that cathedral; but as his literary superiority was not pleasant to those
above him in that establishment, he was got rid of by promotion, elsewhere, out of their patronage.
He wrote the lives of the Deans of that Church, which does not rise to more than local interest.
It is a dull book.

It has been my fate to be Acquainted with Irish Secretaries. I saw much of little Charles Abbot--afterwards
Speaker--and at last Lord Colchester. He was a pompous dwarf; yet of an analytical head. Nothing
could be more amusing than to see him strut up the House of Commons to take the chair; nor
was the amusement less to listen to him, when he delivered his edicts, or the thanks of the
House from the chair. His sonorous voice issuing from a diminutive person, and the epigrammatic
points of empty sentences, formed with great artifice, were in very bad taste--though much
admired by a House which consisted of so few men of a classical education. His rise was extraordinary,
because his talents little exceeded mediocrity. But he was a courtier, and an intriguant. He
was the son of a schoolmaster at Colchester.

Swift, though of English extraction, was born in Ireland. From some memoranda of my grandfather's,
I learn, that he did not speak of his residence with Sir William Temple at Moore Park, in Surrey,
without spleen. He seemed to retain a sort of unwilling awe of Sir William; but not to have
loved him. Sir William was a ceremonious courtier: Swift's early habits were somewhat rude
and slovenly. Swift had genius, as Gulliver's travels prove; but there is no genius in his
poetry. He was both proud and vain. His ancestor was the rector of a small living in Kent;
his father an attorney. When I was quartered at Canterbury, I saw the monument for one of his
ancestors, preserved out of the old church at St. Andrew's and replaced in the new one. The
arms sculptured on it are totally different from what Swift erroneously supposes the family
to have borne: this ancestor was minister of that parish--not a prebendary, as Swift represents.
Miss Vanhomrigg was cousin of my grandfather, who considered that Swift had used her very cruelly.

I often met the late Monsieur Etienne Dumont, of Geneva, the friend and commentator of old
Jeremy Bentham, at Romilly's house in London, in 1789. He was a man of astonishing talents,
sagacity, acuteness, and clearness of head. What part he had in the brilliant effusions of
Mirabeau, and in the French Revolution, may be seen by his posthumous work, just published
at Paris, entitled Souvenirs de Mirabeau. He was a short, thick man, of coarse features, blear
eyed, and slovenly in his dress; but of mild manners, hospitable, an excellent story-teller,
and much beloved. I think he had been at one time librarian to old Lord Lansdowne. He died
at Milan, in 1829, aged about 70. The French cannot contain their rage at the exposure that
he was the spirit who moved their brilliant Mirabeau.

I was once talking to Anna Maria Porter about him, when she expressed her astonishment at the
admiration I bestowed on him! She said, "I thought you was a Whig, and an aristocrat! how can
you commend a revolutionary radical?" I answered, "You mistake his character, he is not a radical
in the sense you mean! he considers Tom Paine's Rights of Man to be mischievous nonsense!"
I could not convince her: but I made my peace with her by praising, with the utmost sincerity,
her beautiful novel, The Recluse of Norway. I found her full of good sense, and with much command
of language. She will forgive me for saying she had not the personal beauty of her gentle sister
Jane. She paid many compliments to the imaginative vivants of the green island; for she perceived
by my tones that I was an Irishman, though I am not sure, that she knew even my name; for the
company was numerous, and of all countries. It was an evening assembly, in which the rooms
were so full, that one could hardly move. Tommy Moore was there, and though he is a very little
man, he was the great lion of the evening: all the young ladies were dying to see the bard
whose verses they had chanted so often with thrilling bosoms, and tears running down their
cheeks. They were not quite satisfied when they saw a diminutive man, not reaching five feet,
with a curly natural brown scratch, handing about an ugly old dowager or two, who fondly leaned
upon his arms, even though they discovered them to be ladies of high titles.

Rogers came in late, and went away early, looking sallower and more indifferent than usual.
He paid a few bows and compliments to two or three noble peeresses, and then retired.

The Rev. Thomas Frognel Dibdin was there. He was very facetious and quaint: when he found himself
by my side, he instantly started off, crying to me; "Brobdignagian; We Lilliputians must not
stand by you! You would make a soldier for the King of Prussia! Look at that tall lady there,
that Miss de V----; why do you not take her for a wife?" E---- G----n heard what he said, and
looked fierce at us both! I expected another Bluviad! Perhaps the ingenious bibliographer does
not recollect the conversation; but he may be assured it took place. And I entreat also Anna
Maria Porter to tax her memory, and recall the very interesting and sensible conversation I
had with her. I told her some anecdotes of her brother, Sir Robert, whom I met on our travels,
which pleased her. Jane would not talk much that night; something heavy seemed to have seized
her spirits. Let Jane recollect how she once related to me the curious history and character
of Percival Stockdale! It happened at the house of a friend in London, whom I shall not point
out with too much particularity. Dibdin endeavoured to excite the envy of some of us litterateurs,
that we were not, like him, members of the Roxburgh, which had dukes, and earls, and chancellors
of the exchequer, and judges, and the great Magician of the North into the bargain!--Metropolitan.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A CHILD IN PRAYER.

  Fold thy little hands in prayer,
    Bow down at thy Maker's knee;
  Now thy sunny face is fair,
  Shining through thy golden hair,
    Thine eyes are passion-free;
  And pleasant thoughts like garlands bind thee
  Unto thy home, yet Grief may find thee--
                     Then pray, Child, pray!

  Now thy young heart like a bird
    Singeth in its summer nest,
  No evil thought, no unkind word.
  No bitter, angry voice hath stirr'd
    The beauty of its rest.
  But winter cometh, and decay
  Wasteth thy verdant home away--
                     Then pray, Child, pray!

  Thy Spirit is a House of Glee,
    And Gladness harpeth at the door,
  While ever with a merry shout
  Hope, the May-Queen, danceth out,
    Her lips with music running o'er!
  But Time those strings of Joy will sever.
  And Hope will not dance on for ever;
                      Then pray, Child, pray!

  Now thy Mother's Hymn abideth
    Round they pillow in the night,
  And gentle feet creep to thy bed,
  And o'er thy quiet face is shed
    The taper's darken'd light.
  But that sweet Hymn shall pass away,
  By thee no more those feet shall stay;
                      Then pray, Child, pray!

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG.

BY JAMES SHERIDAN KNOWLES.

  A Fair lady looks out from her lattice--but why
  Do tears bedim that lady's eye?
  Below stands the knight who her favour wears,
  But be mounts not the turret to dry her tears;
  He springs on his charger--"Farewell;--he is gone,
  And the lady is left in her turret alone.
  "Ply the distaff, my maids--ply the distaff--before
  It is spun, he may happen to stand at the door."

  There was never an eye than that lady's more bright,--
  Why speeds then away her favour'd knight?
  The couch which her white fingers broider'd so fair,
  Were a far softer seat than the saddle of war;
  What's more tempting than love?

  The fair lady looks out from her lattice, but now
  Her eye is as bright as her fair shining brow:
  And is sorrow so fleeting?--Love's tears--dry they fast?
  The stronger is love, is't the less sure to last?
  Whose arm sees her knight round her waist?--'Tis his own;
  By the battle she wept for, her lover is won;
  "Ply the distaff, my maids, ply the distaff no more;
  Would you spin when already he stands at the door?"

Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD CORNWALLIS'S MONUMENT, IN INDIA.

The annexed cut represents the mausoleum of the Marquess of Cornwallis, whose distinguished
connexion with the success of British arms in India will be recollected by the reader. It stands
at Ghazepoor, a large town or city, in the province of Benares, on the river Ganges, about
450 miles from Calcutta. His lordship died on the river in the year 1805, while proceeding
to make the requisite arrangements for some ceded prisoners. He was, at the time, governor-general
of India, having been appointed to succeed the Marquess Wellesley, in 1804. The last act of
his life accords with his general activity and vigilance, for he always gave his instructions
in person, and attended to the performance of them. His personal character was amiable and
unassuming, and if his talents were not brilliant, his sound sense, aided by his laudable ambition
and perseverance, effected much good.

The monument is built of stone, and cost a lac of rupees, or 10,000l. It is surrounded by an
iron railing, and its vicinity is the favourite promenade of the gentry of Ghazepoor, which
has been termed the Montpellier of India.

Bishop Heber, in his interesting Journey through India, objects to the architectural taste
of the monument in these critical observations:

"During our drive this evening I had a nearer view of Lord Cornwallis's monument, which certainly
does not improve on close inspection; it has been evidently a very costly building; its materials
are excellent, being some of the finest free-stone I ever saw, and it is an imitation of the
celebrated Sibyl's temple, of large proportions, solid masonry, and raised above the ground
on a lofty and striking basement. But its pillars, instead of beautiful Corinthian well-fluted,
are of the meanest Doric. They are quite too slender for their height, and for the heavy entablature
and cornice which rest on them. The dome instead of springing from nearly the same level with
the roof of the surrounding portico, is raised ten feet higher on a most ugly and unmeaning
attic story, and the windows (which are quite useless) are the most extraordinary embrasures
(for they resemble nothing else) that I ever saw, out of a fortress. Above all, the building
is utterly unmeaning, it is neither a temple nor a tomb, neither has altar, statue, nor inscription.
It is, in fact, a 'folly' of the same sort, but far more ambitious and costly, than that which
is built at Barrackpoor, and it is vexatious to think that a very handsome church might have
been built, and a handsome marble monument to Lord Cornwallis placed in its interior, for little
more money than has been employed on a thing, which, if any foreigner saw it, (an event luckily
not very probable) would afford subject for mockery to all who read his travels, at the expense
of Anglo-Indian ideas of architecture. Ugly as it is, however, by itself, it may yet be made
a good use of, by making it serve the purpose of a detached 'torre campanile' to the new church
which is required for the station; to this last it would save the necessity of a steeple or
cupola, and would much lessen the expense of the building."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

We quote these Facts from the Correspondence of the Magazine of Natural History for May.

Luminous appearance on the ears of a Horse.

When we cannot find a satisfactory solution for any puzzling occurrence which we are desirous
of investigating, perhaps the best way is to endeavour to accumulate a series of facts of the
same kind. Some years ago, I was riding from Edinburgh: it was (as I happen to recollect) on
the 12th of November, and in the evening. There had been, since past midday, a succession of
those stormy clouds, driven by a westerly wind, which are common at that season. Perhaps the
wind was a point or two to the north of west, if it makes any difference, and during the intervals
there was always a comparative calm or slackening of the wind. I was once taken by one of these
storm-clouds about Nether Libberton, on the Dalkeith road. I used the spur a little; and, having
been a yeoman for many years, I was unconsciously holding a small rattan cane somewhat after
the mode of "carry swords." Roused by the velocity of the wind, and the darkness of the passing
cloud, I naturally turned my eyes to the right, and was not a little surprised to observe a
pale clear flame, in form like that of a small candle, playing upon the point of the cane.
Taking it for granted, forthwith, that a stream of electricity, attracted by the cane, was
passing from the cloud through my body, and through the horse, into the ground, I instantly
turned it downwards. At the time I did not wait to consider that I was in the hollow of the
valley between one of the highest of the Pentlands and Arthur's Seat, and that there were higher
objects than myself, and scattered trees in the neighbourhood far more likely to act upon the
cloud, or be exposed to its influence. A short time after this happened, I mentioned the circumstance
of the flame to a friend. He told me, in return, that once, when riding between Hawick and
Jedburgh, during a dark and stormy night, he was greatly annoyed, for most part of the way,
by two flames, like candles, that appeared to issue from his horse's ears. He certainly is
as little likely to be affected by superstition as most men; but never before having heard
of such a circumstance, and the idea of electricity not then occurring to his mind, he could
not help thinking that Will o' the wisp and he, hoping it was nothing worse, had got into rather
too close intimacy.

Another Correspondent says this luminous "phenomenon may be often seen on a gravel walk upon
a moist autumnal evening. It arises from something of a slimy nature emitted by the Scolopéndra
eléctrica (one of the animals vulgarly called centipedes), which is luminous. As the animal
crawls, it leaves a long train of phosphoric light behind it on the ground, which is often
mistaken for the presence of a glow-worm. In all probability, one of these animals had recently
crawled over the head of the horse, or rather, might be still crawling there, and the person
who saw it unconsciously watched its progress."

The Short Sunfish

appears to be the name of the "Curious Fish," described by our indefatigable Correspondent,
W.G.C., in The Mirror, vol. xviii. p.168, and quoted by the Editor; he mentioned the occurrence
of this fish to Mr. Yarrell, who has furnished a list of references to most of the British
authors by whom it has either been described or figured. (See the Magazine, p. 316.)

By the way, Bishop Heber mentions a sun-fish, or, as it is popularly called Devil-fish: it
is very large and nearly circular, with vivid colours about it, and it swims by lashing the
water with its tail exactly on a level with the surface.

The Char.

The char (Sálmo alpìnus L.) is found in several of the deep and rocky lakes of England: viz.
Coniston in Lancashire, Windermere in Westmoreland, Buttermere and Cromackwater in Cumberland,
and, I believe, in Ulswater. My observations are confined to Windermere. Windermere is fed
by two streams, which unite at the head of the lake, named the Brathy and the Rothay: the bottom
of the former is rocky, and that of the latter sandy. On the first sharp weather that occurs
in November, the char makes up the Brathy, in large shoals, for the purpose of spawning, preferring
that river to the Rothay, probably owing to the bottom being rocky, and resembling more the
bottom of the lake; and it is singular that those fish which ascend the Rothay invariably return
and spawn in the Brathy; they remain in this stream, and in the shallow parts of the lake,
until the end of March. While spawning, their colour and spots are much darker than when in
season; the mouth and fins being of a deep yellow colour; and they are covered with a thick
slime at this time. In the water before Brathy Hall, at Clappersgate, hundreds may be seen
rubbing and rooting at the bottom, endeavouring to free themselves from the slime, and probably
insects that annoy them. Great quantities are caught during the spawning time, by the netters,
for potting, and some are sent up fresh for the London market; but those only who have eaten
char in summer, on the spot, when they are in season, can tell how superior they are to those
eaten in London in the winter. About the beginning of April, when the warm weather comes in,
they retire into the deep parts of the lake; where their principal food is the minnow ( Cyprinus
Phòxinus, L.), of which they are very fond. At this time, they are angled for by spinning a
minnow; but, in a general way, the sport is indifferent, and the persevering angler is well
rewarded if he succeed in killing two brace a day. A more successful mode of taking them is
by fastening a long and heavily leaded line, and hook baited with a minnow, to the stern of
a boat, which is slowly and silently rowed along: in this way they are taken during the early
summer months; but when the hot weather comes in, they are seldom seen. They feed, probably,
at night; and although they never leave the lake, except during the period of spawning, nothing
is more uncommon than taking a char in July and August. When in season, they are strong and
vigorous fish, and afford the angler excellent sport. They differ little in size, three fish
generally weighing about 2lbs.: occasionally, one is caught larger, but they seldom vary more
than an ounce. The char, as it is well known, is a singularly beautiful fish, and is accurately
described by Pennant. The fishermen about the lakes speak of two sorts, the case char and the
gilt char; the latter being a fish that has not spawned in the preceding season, and on that
account said to be of a more delicate flavour, but in other respects there is no difference.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUTCH RUSHES.

The Equisètum hyemàle, is commonly sold under the name of Dutch rushes, for the purpose of
polishing wood and ivory. If the rush be burnt carefully, a residuum of unconsumable matter
will be left, and this held up to the light will show a series of little points, arranged spirally
and symmetrically, which are the portions of silex the fire had not dissipated; and it is this
serrated edge which seems to render the plant so efficient in attrition. Wheaten and oaten
straw are also found by the experience of our good housewives to be good polishers of their
brass milk vessels, without its being at all suspected by them that it is the flint deposited
in the culms which makes it so useful.--Magazine of Natural History, March.

       *       *       *       *       *

WOLF-DOG.

In Hutton's Museum at Keswick, is a large stuffed dog (very much resembling a wolf, and having
its propensities), which some years ago spread devastation amongst the flocks of sheep in this
neighbourhood: a reward was offered for its destruction, and, though hunted by men and dogs,
its caution and swiftness eluded their pursuit, till it was found asleep under a hedge, and
in that position shot.--Corresp. Mag. Nat. Hist.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUCKS.

"While our voiturier," says Mr. Bakewell, "was resting his horses at Villeneuve, I observed
a singular instance of sagacity in some ducks that were collected under the carriage. On our
throwing out pieces of hard biscuit, which were too large for them to swallow whole, they made
many efforts to break them with their beaks; failing in this, the younger ones gave up the
spoil, but some of the older ducks carried parts of the biscuit to a pool of standing water,
and held them to soak, till sufficiently soft to be broken and swallowed with great facility.
I must leave it to metaphysicians to determine whether this process was the result of induction
or instinct."

       *       *       *       *       *

POISON OF TOADS.

The circumstance of toads spitting poison, is mentioned in M.L.B's. interesting paper on the
Superstitions relative to Animals. The following is the opinion of Dr. E.J. Clark on this subject,
delivered at a recent lecture. S.H.

"The opinions of the vulgar are generally founded upon something. That the toad spits poison
has been treated as ridiculous; but though it may be untrue that what the creature spits affects
man, yet I am of opinion that it does spit venom. A circumstance related to me by a friend
of mine, has tended to strengthen my opinion. He was a timber merchant, and had a favourite
cat who was accustomed to stand by him while he was removing the timber; when, (as was often
the case) a mouse was found concealed among it, the cat used to kill it. One day the gentleman
was at his usual employment, and the cat standing by him, when she jumped on what he supposed
to be a mouse, and immediately uttered aloud cry of agony; she then stole away into a corner
of the yard, and died in a few minutes. It turned out that she had jumped on a toad."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

SCRIPTURAL ANTIQUITIES.

(Concluded from page 411.)

Phenomenon of the Rainbow.

It seems to us very probable, that the density of the atmosphere was changed at the deluge,
having been considerably attenuated, nor can this inference be regarded in the light of mere
speculation: there seems sufficient evidence that it really must have been so. The rainbow
appearing for the first time--the abbreviation of human life, and the diminished size of animal
and vegetable forms, all seem to require this condition. Far be it from us to doubt the direct
interposition of JEHOVAH in this catastrophe, but GOD sometimes employs secondary agents to
effect his designs. "I do set," says the ALMIGHTY, "my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for
a token of the covenant between me and the earth. It cannot be reasonably supposed, that the
rainbow ever appeared before the deluge, nor from our previous remarks, is it at all necessary
to suppose it. Had the patriarchs seen this beautiful phenomenon in an antediluvian world,
its recurrence after the deluge could not have been a symbol of security, since, though the
spectacle had been already witnessed, the deluge had supervened; but it was a new phenomenon,
the consequence of the altered condition of the atmosphere, and was perhaps the result of a
super-added law. The design implies stipulations of a somewhat similar description, and even
pagan testimony might be cited as concurring in this view of it.

    [Greek: En nephei staerixe teras meropon anthropon.][5]

  "Jove's wondrous bow of three celestial dies,
  Plac'd, as a sign to man, amidst the skies."

