The Armourers' Prentices

By Charlotte M. Yonge

This is a story about two young orphans from Hampshire, who travel to London in search of relatives.
On the way they rescue a prominent City of London figure after he has been attacked by highwaymen,
and in this way they become attached to his household in the City.  The date is the early years
of Henry the Eighth, when the religious world of England is simmering not only with the new
views on religion, but also with the problems of the King and his Divorces.  We meet great
figures like Dean Colet, famous even to this very day for his charitable foundations, Thomas
More, and other great figures of the pre-Reformation years.

It is a very lively story that rings true at every turn, and is worth while reading for those
who would like a further understanding of the late Tudor Court, and the customs in the City,
prevailing at the time of the Reformation.

THE ARMOURERS' PRENTICES

BY CHARLOTTE M. YONGE

CHAPTER ONE.

THE VERDURER'S LODGE.

"Give me the poor allottery my father left me by testament, with that I will go buy me fortunes."

"Get you with him, you old dog."

As You Like It.

The officials of the New Forest have ever since the days of the Conqueror enjoyed some of the
pleasantest dwellings that southern England can boast.

The home of the Birkenholt family was not one of the least delightful. It stood at the foot
of a rising ground, on which grew a grove of magnificent beeches, their large silvery boles
rising majestically like columns into a lofty vaulting of branches, covered above with tender
green foliage.  Here and there the shade beneath was broken by the gilding of a ray of sunshine
on a lower twig, or on a white trunk, but the floor of the vast arcades was almost entirely
of the russet brown of the fallen leaves, save where a fern or holly bush made a spot of green.
At the foot of the slope lay a stretch of pasture ground, some parts covered by "lady-smocks,
all silver white," with the course of the little stream through the midst indicated by a perfect
golden river of shining kingcups interspersed with ferns.  Beyond lay tracts of brown heath
and brilliant gorse and broom, which stretched for miles and miles along the flats, while the
dry ground was covered with holly brake, and here and there woods of oak and beech made a sea
of verdure, purpling in the distance.

Cultivation was not attempted, but hardy little ponies, cows, goats, sheep, and pigs were feeding,
and picking their way about in the marshy mead below, and a small garden of pot-herbs, inclosed
by a strong fence of timber, lay on the sunny side of a spacious rambling forest lodge, only
one story high, built of solid timber and roofed with shingle.  It was not without strong pretensions
to beauty, as well as to picturesqueness, for the posts of the door, the architecture of the
deep porch, the frames of the latticed windows, and the verge boards were all richly carved
in grotesque devices.  Over the door was the royal shield, between a pair of magnificent antlers,
the spoils of a deer reported to have been slain by King Edward the Fourth, as was denoted
by the "glorious sun of York" carved beneath the shield.

In the background among the trees were ranges of stables and kennels, and on the grass-plat
in front of the windows was a row of beehives.  A tame doe lay on the little green sward, not
far from a large rough deer- hound, both close friends who could be trusted at large.  There
was a mournful dispirited look about the hound, evidently an aged animal, for the once black
muzzle was touched with grey, and there was a film over one of the keen beautiful eyes, which
opened eagerly as he pricked his ears and lifted his head at the rattle of the door latch.
Then, as two boys came out, he rose, and with a slowly waving tail, and a wistful appealing
air, came and laid his head against one of the pair who had appeared in the pont.  They were
lads of fourteen and fifteen, clad in suits of new mourning, with the short belted doublet,
puffed hose, small ruffs and little round caps of early Tudor times.  They had dark eyes and
hair, and honest open faces, the younger ruddy and sunburnt, the elder thinner and more intellectual--and
they were so much the same size that the advantage of age was always supposed to be on the
side of Stephen, though he was really the junior by nearly a year.  Both were sad and grave,
and the eyes and cheeks of Stephen showed traces of recent floods of tears, though there was
more settled dejection on the countenance of his brother.

"Ay, Spring," said the lad, "'tis winter with thee now.  A poor old rogue!  Did the new housewife
talk of a halter because he showed his teeth when her ill-nurtured brat wanted to ride on him?
Nay, old Spring, thou shalt share thy master's fortunes, changed though they be. Oh, father!
father! didst thou guess how it would be with thy boys!" And throwing himself on the grass,
he hid his face against the dog and sobbed.

"Come, Stephen, Stephen; 'tis time to play the man!  What are we to do out in the world if
you weep and wail?"

"She might have let us stay for the month's mind," was heard from Stephen.

"Ay, and though we might be more glad to go, we might carry bitterer thoughts along with us.
Better be done with it at once, say I."

"There would still be the Forest!  And I saw the moorhen sitting yester eve!  And the wild
ducklings are out on the pool, and the woods are full of song.  Oh!  Ambrose!  I never knew
how hard it is to part--"

"Nay, now, Steve, where be all your plots for bravery?  You always meant to seek your fortune--not
bide here like an acorn for ever."

"I never thought to be thrust forth the very day of our poor father's burial, by a shrewish
town-bred vixen, and a base narrow-souled--"

"Hist! hist!" said the more prudent Ambrose.

"Let him hear who will!  He cannot do worse for us than he has done! All the Forest will cry
shame on him for a mean-hearted skinflint to turn his brothers from their home, ere their father
and his, be cold in his grave," cried Stephen, clenching the grass with his hands, in his passionate
sense of wrong.

"That's womanish," said Ambrose.

"Who'll be the woman when the time comes for drawing cold steel?" cried Stephen, sitting up.

At that moment there came through the porch a man, a few years over thirty, likewise in mourning,
with a paler, sharper countenance than the brothers, and an uncomfortable pleading expression
of self- justification.

"How now, lads!" he said, "what means this?  You have taken the matter too hastily.  There
was no thought that ye should part till you had some purpose in view.  Nay, we should be fain
for Ambrose to bide on here, so he would leave his portion for me to deal with, and teach little
Will his primer and accidence.  You are a quiet lad, Ambrose, and can rule your tongue better
than Stephen."

"Thanks, brother John," said Ambrose, somewhat sarcastically, "but where Stephen goes I go."

"I would--I would have found Stephen a place among the prickers or rangers, if--" hesitated
John.  "In sooth, I would yet do it, if he would make it up with the housewife."

"My father looked higher for his son than a pricker's office," returned Ambrose.

"That do I wot," said John, "and therefore, 'tis for his own good that I would send him forth.
His godfather, our uncle Birkenholt, he will assuredly provide for him, and set him forth--"

The door of the house was opened, and a shrewish voice cried, "Mr Birkenholt--here, husband!
You are wanted.  Here's little Kate crying to have yonder smooth pouch to stroke, and I cannot
reach it for her."

"Father set store by that otter-skin pouch, for poor Prince Arthur slew the otter," cried Stephen.
"Surely, John, you'll not let the babes make a toy of that?"

John made a helpless gesture, and at a renewed call, went indoors.

"You are right, Ambrose," said Stephen, "this is no place for us.  Why should we tarry any
longer to see everything moiled and set at nought? I have couched in the forest before, and
'tis summer time."

"Nay," said Ambrose, "we must make up our fardels and have our money in our pouches before
we can depart.  We must tarry the night, and call John to his reckoning, and so might we set
forth early enough in the morning to lie at Winchester that night and take counsel with our
uncle Birkenholt."

"I would not stop short at Winchester," said Stephen.  "London for me, where uncle Randall
will find us preferment!"

"And what wilt do for Spring!"

"Take him with me, of course!" exclaimed Stephen.  "What! would I leave him to be kicked and
pinched by Will, and hanged belike by Mistress Maud?"

"I doubt me whether the poor old hound will brook the journey."

"Then I'll carry him!"

Ambrose looked at the big dog as if he thought it would be a serious undertaking, but he had
known and loved Spring as his brother's property ever since his memory began, and he scarcely
felt that they could be separable for weal or woe.

The verdurers of the New Forest were of gentle blood, and their office was well-nigh hereditary.
The Birkenholts had held it for many generations, and the reversion passed as a matter of course
to the eldest son of the late holder, who had newly been laid in the burial- ground of Beaulieu
Abbey.  John Birkenholt, whose mother had been of knightly lineage, had resented his father's
second marriage with the daughter of a yeoman on the verge of the Forest, suspected of a strain
of gipsy blood, and had lived little at home, becoming a sort of agent at Southampton for business
connected with the timber which was yearly cut in the Forest to supply material for the shipping.
He had wedded the daughter of a person engaged in law business at Southampton, and had only
been an occasional visitor at home, ever after the death of his stepmother.  She had left these
two boys, unwelcome appendages in his sight.  They had obtained a certain amount of education
at Beaulieu Abbey, where a school was kept, and where Ambrose daily studied, though for the
last few months Stephen had assisted his father in his forest duties.

Death had come suddenly to break up the household in the early spring of 1515, and John Birkenholt
had returned as if to a patrimony, bringing his wife and children with him.  The funeral ceremonies
had been conducted at Beaulieu Abbey on the extensive scale of the sixteenth century, the requiem,
the feast, and the dole, all taking place there, leaving the Forest lodge in its ordinary quiet.

It had always been understood that on their father's death the two younger sons must make their
own way in the world; but he had hoped to live until they were a little older, when he might
himself have started them in life, or expressed his wishes respecting them to their elder brother.
As it was, however, there was no commendation of them, nothing but a strip of parchment, drawn
up by one of the monks of Beaulieu, leaving each of them twenty crowns, with a few small jewels
and properties left by their own mother, while everything else went to their brother.

There might have been some jealousy excited by the estimation in which Stephen's efficiency--boy
as he was--was evidently held by the plain- spoken underlings of the verdurer; and this added
to Mistress Birkenholt's dislike to the presence of her husband's half-brothers, whom she regarded
as interlopers without a right to exist.  Matters were brought to a climax by old Spring's
resentment at being roughly teased by her spoilt children.  He had done nothing worse than
growl and show his teeth, but the town-bred dame had taken alarm, and half in terror, half
in spite, had insisted on his instant execution, since he was too old to be valuable.  Stephen,
who loved the dog only less than he loved his brother Ambrose, had come to high words with
her; and the end of the altercation had been that she had declared that she would suffer no
great lubbers of the half-blood to devour her children's inheritance, and teach them ill manners,
and that go they must, and that instantly. John had muttered a little about "not so fast, dame,"
and "for very shame," but she had turned on him, and rated him with a violence that demonstrated
who was ruler in the house, and took away all disposition to tarry long under the new dynasty.

The boys possessed two uncles, one on each side of the house.  Their father's elder brother
had been a man-at-arms, having preferred a stirring life to the Forest, and had fought in the
last surges of the Wars of the Roses.  Having become disabled and infirm, he had taken advantage
of a corrody, or right of maintenance, as being of kin to a benefactor of Hyde Abbey at Winchester,
to which Birkenholt some generations back had presented a few roods of land, in right of which,
one descendant at a time might be maintained in the Abbey.  Intelligence of his brother's death
had been sent to Richard Birkenholt, but answer had been returned that he was too evil-disposed
with the gout to attend the burial.

The other uncle, Harry Randall, had disappeared from the country under a cloud connected with
the king's deer, leaving behind him the reputation of a careless, thriftless, jovial fellow,
the best company in all the Forest, and capable of doing every one a work save his own.

The two brothers, who were about seven and six years old at the time of his flight, had a lively
recollection of his charms as a playmate, and of their mother's grief for him, and refusal
to believe any ill of her Hal.  Rumours had come of his attainment to vague and unknown greatness
at court, under the patronage of the Lord Archbishop of York, which the Verdurer laughed to
scorn, though his wife gave credit to them.  Gifts had come from time to time, passed through
a succession of servants and officials of the king, such as a coral and silver rosary, a jewelled
bodkin, an agate carved with Saint Catherine, an ivory pouncet box with a pierced gold coin
as the lid; but no letter with them, as indeed Hal Randall had never been induced to learn
to read or write.  Master Birkenholt looked doubtfully at the tokens and hoped Hal had come
honestly by them; but his wife had thoroughly imbued her sons with the belief that Uncle Hal
was shining in his proper sphere, where he was better appreciated than at home.  Thus their
one plan was to go to London to find Uncle Hal, who was sure to put Stephen on the road to
fortune, and enable Ambrose to become a great scholar, his favourite ambition.

His gifts would, as Ambrose observed, serve them as tokens, and with the purpose of claiming
them, they re-entered the hall, a long low room, with a handsome open roof, and walls tapestried
with dressed skins, interspersed with antlers, hung with weapons of the chase.  At one end
of the hall was a small polished barrel, always replenished with beer, at the other a hearth
with a wood fire constantly burning, and there was a table running the whole length of the
room; at one end of this was laid a cloth, with a few trenchers on it, and horn cups, surrounding
a barley loaf and a cheese, this meagre irregular supper being considered as a sufficient supplement
to the funeral baked meats which had abounded at Beaulieu.  John Birkenholt sat at the table
with a trencher and horn before him, uneasily using his knife to crumble, rather than cut,
his bread.  His wife, a thin, pale, shrewish-looking woman, was warming her child's feet at
the fire, before putting him to bed, and an old woman sat spinning and nodding on a settle
at a little distance.

"Brother," said Stephen, "we have thought on what you said.  We will put our stuff together,
and if you will count us out our portions, we will be afoot by sunrise to-morrow."

"Nay, nay, lad, I said not there was such haste; did I, mistress housewife?"--(she snorted);
"only that thou art a well-grown lusty fellow, and 'tis time thou wentest forth.  For thee,
Ambrose, thou wottest I made thee a fair offer of bed and board."

"That is," called out the wife, "if thou wilt make a fair scholar of little Will.  'Tis a mighty
good offer.  There are not many who would let their child be taught by a mere stripling like thee!"

"Nay," said Ambrose, who could not bring himself to thank her, "I go with Stephen, mistress;
I would in end my scholarship ere I teach."

"As you please," said Mistress Maud, shrugging her shoulders, "only never say that a fair offer
was not made to you."

"And," said Stephen, "so please you, brother John, hand us over our portions, and the jewels
as bequeathed to us, and we will be gone."

"Portions, quotha?" returned John.  "Boy, they be not due to you till you be come to years
of discretion."

The brothers looked at one another, and Stephen said, "Nay, now, brother, I know not how that
may be, but I do know that you cannot drive us from our father's house without maintenance,
and detain what belongs to us."

And Ambrose muttered something about "my Lord of Beaulieu."

"Look you, now," said John, "did I ever speak of driving you from home without maintenance?
Hath not Ambrose had his choice of staying here, and Stephen of waiting till some office be
found for him?  As for putting forty crowns into the hands of striplings like you, it were
mere throwing it to the robbers."

"That being so," said Ambrose turning to Stephen, "we will to Beaulieu, and see what counsel
my lord will give us."

"Yea, do, like the vipers ye are, and embroil us with my Lord of Beaulieu," cried Maud from
the fire.

"See," said John, in his more caressing fashion, "it is not well to carry family tales to strangers,
and--and--"

He was disconcerted by a laugh from the old nurse, "Ho!  John Birkenholt, thou wast ever a
lad of smooth tongue, but an thou, or madam here, think that thy brothers can be put forth
from thy father's door without their due before the good man be cold in his grave, and the
Forest not ring with it, thou art mightily out in thy reckoning!"

"Peace, thou old hag; what matter is't of thine?" began Mistress Maud, but again came the harsh
laugh.

"Matter of mine!  Why, whose matter should it be but mine, that have nursed all three of the
lads, ay, and their father before them, besides four more that lie in the graveyard at Beaulieu?
Rest their sweet souls!  And I tell thee, Master John, an thou do not righteously by these
thy brothers, thou mayst back to thy parchments at Southampton, for not a man or beast in the
Forest will give thee good-day."

They all felt the old woman's authority.  She was able and spirited in her homely way, and
more mistress of the house than Mrs Birkenholt herself; and such were the terms of domestic
service, that there was no peril of losing her place.  Even Maud knew that to turn her out
was an impossibility, and that she must be accepted like the loneliness, damp, and other evils
of Forest life.  John had been under her dominion, and proceeded to persuade her.  "Good now,
Nurse Joan, what have I denied these rash striplings that my father would have granted them?
Wouldst thou have them carry all their portion in their hands, to be cozened of it at the first
alehouse, or robbed on the next heath?"

"I would have thee do a brother's honest part, John Birkenholt.  A loving part I say not. 
Thou wert always like a very popple for hardness, and smoothness, ay, and slipperiness.  Heigh
ho!  But what is right by the lads, thou shalt do."

John cowered under her eye as he had done at six years old, and faltered, "I only seek to do
them right, nurse."

Nurse Joan uttered an emphatic grunt, but Mistress Maud broke in, "They are not to hang about
here in idleness, eating my poor child's substance, and teaching him ill manners."

"We would not stay here if you paid us for it," returned Stephen.

"And whither would you go?" asked John.

"To Winchester first, to seek counsel with our uncle Birkenholt.  Then to London, where uncle
Randall will help us to our fortunes."

"Gipsy Hal!  He is more like to help you to a halter," sneered John, sotto voce, and Joan herself
observed, "Their uncle at Winchester will show them better than to run after that there go-by-chance."

However, as no one wished to keep the youths, and they were equally determined to go, an accommodation
was come to at last.  John was induced to give them three crowns apiece and to yield them up
the five small trinkets specified, though not without some murmurs from his wife. It was no
doubt safer to leave the rest of the money in his hands than to carry it with them, and he
undertook that it should be forthcoming, if needed for any fit purpose, such as the purchase
of an office, an apprentice's fee, or an outfit as a squire.  It was a vague promise that cost
him nothing just then, and thus could be readily made, and John's great desire was to get them
away so that he could aver that they had gone by their own free will, without any hardship,
for he had seen enough at his father's obsequies to show him that the love and sympathy of
all the scanty dwellers in the Forest was with them.

Nurse Joan had fought their battles, but with the sore heart of one who was parting with her
darlings never to see them again.  She bade them doff their suits of mourning that she might
make up their fardels, as they would travel in their Lincoln-green suits.  To take these she
repaired to the little rough shed-like chamber where the two brothers lay for the last time
on their pallet bed, awake, and watching for her, with Spring at their feet.  The poor old
woman stood over them, as over the motherless nurslings whom she had tended, and she should
probably never see more, but she was a woman of shrewd sense, and perceived that "with the
new madam in the hall" it was better that they should be gone before worse ensued.

She advised leaving their valuables sealed up in the hands of my Lord Abbot, but they were
averse to this--for they said their uncle Randall, who had not seen them since they were little
children, would not know them without some pledge.

She shook her head.  "The less you deal with Hal Randall the better," she said.  "Come now,
lads, be advised and go no farther than Winchester, where Master Ambrose may get all the book-learning
he is ever craving for, and you, Master Stevie, may prentice yourself to some good trade."

"Prentice!" cried Stephen, scornfully.

"Ay, ay.  As good blood as thine has been prenticed," returned Joan. "Better so than be a cut-throat
sword-and-buckler fellow, ever slaying some one else or getting thyself slain--a terror to
all peaceful folk. But thine uncle will see to that--a steady-minded lad always was he--was
Master Dick."

Consoling herself with this hope, the old woman rolled up their new suits with some linen into
two neat knapsacks; sighing over the thought that unaccustomed fingers would deal with the
shirts she had spun, bleached, and sewn.  But she had confidence in "Master Dick," and concluded
that to send his nephews to him at Winchester gave a far better chance of their being cared
for, than letting them be flouted into ill-doing by their grudging brother and his wife.

CHAPTER TWO.

THE GRANGE OF SILKSTEDE.

  "All Itchen's valley lay,
  Saint Catherine's breezy side and the woodlands far away,
  The huge Cathedral sleeping in venerable gloom,
  The modest College tower, and the bedesmen's Norman home."

  Lord Selborne.

Very early in the morning, even according to the habits of the time, were Stephen and Ambrose
Birkenholt astir.  They were full of ardour to enter on the new and unknown world beyond the
Forest, and much as they loved it, any change that kept them still to their altered life would
have been distasteful.

Nurse Joan, asking no questions, folded up their fardels on their backs, and packed the wallets
for their day's journey with ample provision. She charged them to be good lads, to say their
Pater, Credo, and Ave daily, and never omit Mass on a Sunday.  They kissed her like their mother
and promised heartily--and Stephen took his crossbow.  They had had some hope of setting forth
so early as to avoid all other human farewells, except that Ambrose wished to begin by going
to Beaulieu to take leave of the Father who had been his kind master, and get his blessing
and counsel.  But Beaulieu was three miles out of their way, and Stephen had not the same desire,
being less attached to his schoolmaster and more afraid of hindrances being thrown in their way.

Moreover, contrary to their expectation, their elder brother came forth, and declared his intention
of setting them forth on their way, bestowing a great amount of good advice, to the same purport
as that of nurse Joan, namely, that they should let their uncle Richard Birkenholt find them
some employment at Winchester, where they, or at least Ambrose, might even obtain admission
into the famous college of Saint Mary.

In fact, this excellent elder brother persuaded himself that it would be doing them an absolute
wrong to keep such promising youths hidden in the Forest.

The purpose of his going thus far with them made itself evident.  It was to see them past the
turning to Beaulieu.  No doubt he wished to tell the story in his own way, and that they should
not present themselves there as orphans expelled from their father's house.  It would sound
much better that he had sent them to ask counsel of their uncle at Winchester, the fit person
to take charge of them.  And as he represented that to go to Beaulieu would lengthen their
day's journey so much that they might hardly reach Winchester that night, while all Stephen's
wishes were to go forward, Ambrose could only send his greetings.  There was another debate
over Spring, who had followed his master as usual.  John uttered an exclamation of vexation
at perceiving it, and bade Stephen drive the dog back.  "Or give me the leash to drag him.
He will never follow me."

"He goes with us," said Stephen.

"He!  Thou'lt never have the folly!  The old hound is half blind and past use.  No man will
take thee in with him after thee."

"Then they shall not take me in," said Stephen.  "I'll not leave him to be hanged by thee."

"Who spoke of hanging him!"

"Thy wife will soon, if she hath not already."

"Thou wilt be for hanging him thyself ere thou have made a day's journey with him on the king's
highway, which is not like these forest paths, I would have thee to know.  Why, he limps already."

"Then I'll carry him," said Stephen, doggedly.

"What hast thou to say to that device, Ambrose?" asked John, appealing to the elder and wiser.

But Ambrose only answered "I'll help," and as John had no particular desire to retain the superannuated
hound, and preferred on the whole to be spared sentencing him, no more was said on the subject
as they went along, until all John's stock of good counsel had been lavished on his brothers'
impatient ears.  He bade them farewell, and turned back to the lodge, and they struck away
along the woodland pathway which they had been told led to Winchester, though they had never
been thither, nor seen any town save Southampton and Romsey at long intervals.  On they went,
sometimes through beech and oak woods of noble, almost primeval, trees, but more often across
tracts of holly underwood, illuminated here and there with the snowy garlands of the wild cherry,
and beneath with wide spaces covered with young green bracken, whose soft irregular masses
on the undulating ground had somewhat the effect of the waves of the sea.  These alternated
with stretches of yellow gorse and brown heather, sheets of cotton-grass, and pools of white
crowfoot, and all the vegetation of a mountain side, only that the mountain was not there.

The brothers looked with eyes untaught to care for beauty, but with a certain love of the home
scenes, tempered by youth's impatience for something new.  The nightingales sang, the thrushes
flew out before them, the wild duck and moorhen glanced on the pools.  Here and there they
came on the furrows left by the snout of the wild swine, and in the open tracts rose the graceful
heads of the deer, but of inhabitants or travellers they scarce saw any, save when they halted
at the little hamlet of Minestead, where a small alehouse was kept by one Will Purkiss, who
claimed descent from the charcoal-burner who had carried William Rufus's corpse to burial at
Winchester--the one fact in history known to all New Foresters, though perhaps Ambrose and
John were the only persons beyond the walls of Beaulieu who did not suppose the affair to have
taken place in the last generation.

A draught of ale and a short rest were welcome as the heat of the day came on, making the old
dog plod wearily on with his tongue out, so that Stephen began to consider whether he should
indeed have to be his bearer--a serious matter, for the creature at full length measured nearly
as much as he did.  They met hardly any one, and they and Spring were alike too well known
and trained, for difficulties to arise as to leading a dog through the Forest.  Should they
ever come to the term of the Forest?  It was not easy to tell when they were really beyond
it, for the ground was much of the same kind.  Only the smooth, treeless hills, where they
had always been told Winchester lay, seemed more defined, and they saw no more deer, but here
and there were inclosures where wheat and barley were growing, and black timbered farmhouses
began to show themselves at intervals.  Herd boys, as rough and unkempt as their charges, could
be seen looking after little tawny cows, black- faced sheep, or spotted pigs, with curs which
barked fiercely at poor weary Spring, even as their masters were more disposed to throw stones
than to answer questions.

By and by, on the further side of a green valley, could be seen buildings with an encircling
wall of flint and mortar faced with ruddy brick, the dark red-tiled roofs rising among walnut-trees,
and an orchard in full bloom spreading into a long green field.

"Winchester must be nigh.  The sun is getting low," said Stephen.

"We will ask.  The good folk will at least give us an answer," said Ambrose wearily.

As they reached the gate, a team of plough horses was passing in led by a peasant lad, while
a lay brother, with his gown tucked up, rode sideways on one, whistling.  An Augustinian monk,
ruddy, burly, and sunburnt, stood in the farm-yard, to receive an account of the day's work,
and doffing his cap, Ambrose asked whether Winchester were near.

"Three mile or thereaway, my good lad," said the monk; "thou'lt see the towers an ye mount
the hill.  Whence art thou?" he added, looking at the two young strangers.  "Scholars?  The
College elects not yet a while."

"We be from the Forest, so please your reverence, and are bound for Hyde Abbey, where our uncle,
Master Richard Birkenholt, dwells."

"And oh, sir," added Stephen, "may we crave a drop of water for our dog?"

