With dogged obstinacy, Isaac Hakkabut refused to take any share either in the labors or the
amusements of the colony. In spite of the cold, he had not been seen since the day of his arrival
from Gourbi Island. Captain Servadac had strictly forbidden any communication with him; and
the smoke that rose from the cabin chimney of the Hansa was the sole indication of the proprietor
being still on board. There was nothing to prevent him, if he chose, from partaking gratuitously
of the volcanic light and heat which were being enjoyed by all besides; but rather than abandon
his close and personal oversight of his precious cargo, he preferred to sacrifice his own slender
stock of fuel.

Both the schooner and the tartan had been carefully moored in the way that seemed to promise
best for withstanding the rigor of the winter. After seeing the vessels made secure in the
frozen creek. Lieutenant Procope, following the example of many Arctic explorers, had the precaution
to have the ice beveled away from the keels, so that there should be no risk of the ships'
sides being crushed by the increasing pressure; he hoped that they would follow any rise in
the level of the ice-field, and when the thaw should come, that they would easily regain their
proper water-line.

On his last visit to Gourbi Island, the lieutenant had ascertained that north, east, and west,
far as the eye could reach, the Gallian Sea had become one uniform sheet of ice. One spot alone
refused to freeze; this was the pool immediately below the central cavern, the receptacle for
the stream of burning lava. It was entirely enclosed by rocks, and if ever a few icicles were
formed there by the action of the cold, they were very soon melted by the fiery shower. Hissing
and spluttering as the hot lava came in contact with it, the water was in a continual state
of ebullition, and the fish that abounded in its depths defied the angler's craft; they were,
as Ben Zoof remarked, "too much boiled to bite."

At the beginning of April the weather changed. The sky became overcast, but there was no rise
in the temperature. Unlike the polar winters of the earth, which ordinarily are affected by
atmospheric influence, and liable to slight intermissions of their severity at various shiftings
of the wind, Gallia's winter was caused by her immense distance from the source of all light
and heat, and the cold was consequently destined to go on steadily increasing until it reached
the limit ascertained by Fourier to be the normal temperature of the realms of space.

With the over-clouding of the heavens there arose a violent tempest; but although the wind
raged with an almost inconceivable fury, it was unaccompanied by either snow or rain. Its effect
upon the burning curtain that covered the aperture of the central hall was very remarkable.
So far from there being any likelihood of the fire being extinguished by the vehemence of the
current of air, the hurricane seemed rather to act as a ventilator, which fanned the flame
into greater activity, and the utmost care was necessary to avoid being burnt by the fragments
of lava that were drifted into the interior of the grotto. More than once the curtain itself
was rifted entirely asunder, but only to close up again immediately after allowing a momentary
draught of cold air to penetrate the hall in a way that was refreshing and rather advantageous
than otherwise.

On the 4th of April, after an absence of about four days, the new satellite, to Ben Zoof's
great satisfaction, made its reappearance in a crescent form, a circumstance that seemed to
justify the anticipation that henceforward it would continue to make a periodic revolution
every fortnight.

The crust of ice and snow was far too stout for the beaks of the strongest birds to penetrate,
and accordingly large swarms had left the island, and, following the human population, had
taken refuge on the volcanic promontory; not that there the barren shore had anything in the
way of nourishment to offer them, but their instinct impelled them to haunt now the very habitations
which formerly they would have shunned. Scraps of food were thrown to them from the galleries;
these were speedily devoured, but were altogether inadequate in quantity to meet the demand.
At length, emboldened by hunger, several hundred birds ventured through the tunnel, and took
up their quarters actually in Nina's Hive. Congregating in the large hall, the half-famished
creatures did not hesitate to snatch bread, meat, or food of any description from the hands
of the residents as they sat at table, and soon became such an intolerable nuisance that it
formed one of the daily diversions to hunt them down; but although they were vigorously attacked
by stones and sticks, and even occasionally by shot, it was with some difficulty that their
number could be sensibly reduced.

By a systematic course of warfare the bulk of the birds were all expelled, with the exception
of about a hundred, which began to build in the crevices of the rocks. These were left in quiet
possession of their quarters, as not only was it deemed advisable to perpetuate the various
breeds, but it was found that these birds acted as a kind of police, never failing either to
chase away or to kill any others of their species who infringed upon what they appeared to
regard as their own special privilege in intruding within the limits of their domain.

On the 15th loud cries were suddenly heard issuing from the mouth of the principal gallery.

"Help, help! I shall be killed!"

Pablo in a moment recognized the voice as Nina's. Outrunning even Ben Zoof he hurried to the
assistance of his little playmate, and discovered that she was being attacked by half a dozen
great sea-gulls, and only after receiving some severe blows from their beaks could he succeed
by means of a stout cudgel in driving them away.

"Tell me, Nina, what is this?" he asked as soon as the tumult had subsided.

The child pointed to a bird which she was caressing tenderly in her bosom.

"A pigeon!" exclaimed Ben Zoof, who had reached the scene of commotion, adding:

"A carrier-pigeon! And by all the saints of Montmartre, there is a little bag attached to its
neck!"

He took the bird, and rushing into the hall placed it in Servadac's hands.

"Another message, no doubt," cried the captain, "from our unknown friend. Let us hope that
this time he has given us his name and address."

All crowded round, eager to hear the news. In the struggle with the gulls the bag had been
partially torn open, but still contained the following dispatch:

"Gallia!

Chemin parcouru du 1er Mars au 1er Avril: 39,000,000 l.!

Distance du soleil: 110,000,000 l.!

Capte Nerina en passant.

Vivres vont manquer et..."

The rest of the document had been so damaged by the beaks of the gulls that it was illegible.
Servadac was wild with vexation. He felt more and more convinced that the writer was a Frenchman,
and that the last line indicated that he was in distress from scarcity of food. The very thought
of a fellow-countryman in peril of starvation drove him well-nigh to distraction, and it was
in vain that search was made everywhere near the scene of conflict in hopes of finding the
missing scrap that might bear a signature or address.

Suddenly little Nina, who had again taken possession of the pigeon, and was hugging it to her
breast, said:

"Look here, Ben Zoof!"

And as she spoke she pointed to the left wing of the bird. The wing bore the faint impress
of a postage-stamp, and the one word: "FORMENTERA."

CHAPTER XXIV. A SLEDGE-RIDE

Formentera was at once recognized by Servadac and the count as the name of one of the smallest
of the Balearic Islands. It was more than probable that the unknown writer had thence sent
out the mysterious documents, and from the message just come to hand by the carrier-pigeon,
it appeared all but certain that at the beginning of April, a fortnight back, he had still
been there. In one important particular the present communication differed from those that
had preceded it: it was written entirely in French, and exhibited none of the ecstatic exclamations
in other languages that had been remarkable in the two former papers. The concluding line,
with its intimation of failing provisions, amounted almost to an appeal for help. Captain Servadac
briefly drew attention to these points, and concluded by saying, "My friends, we must, without
delay, hasten to the assistance of this unfortunate man."

"For my part," said the count, "I am quite ready to accompany you; it is not unlikely that
he is not alone in his distress."

Lieutenant Procope expressed much surprise. "We must have passed close to Formentera," he said,
"when we explored the site of the Balearic Isles; this fragment must be very small; it must
be smaller than the remaining splinter of Gibraltar or Ceuta; otherwise, surely it would never
have escaped our observation."

"However small it may be," replied Servadac, "we must find it. How far off do you suppose it is?"

"It must be a hundred and twenty leagues away," said the lieutenant, thoughtfully; "and I do
not quite understand how you would propose to get there."

"Why, on skates of course; no difficulty in that, I should imagine," answered Servadac, and
he appealed to the count for confirmation of his opinion.

The count assented, but Procope looked doubtful.

"Your enterprise is generous," he said, "and I should be most unwilling to throw any unnecessary
obstacle in the way of its execution; but, pardon me, if I submit to you a few considerations
which to my mind are very important. First of all, the thermometer is already down to 22 degrees
below zero, and the keen wind from the south is making the temperature absolutely unendurable;
in the second place, supposing you travel at the rate of twenty leagues a day, you would be
exposed for at least six consecutive days; and thirdly, your expedition will be of small avail
unless you convey provisions not only for yourselves, but for those whom you hope to relieve."

"We can carry our own provisions on our backs in knapsacks," interposed Servadac, quickly,
unwilling to recognize any difficulty in the way.

"Granted that you can," answered the lieutenant, quietly; "but where, on this level ice-field,
will you find shelter in your periods of rest? You must perish with cold; you will not have
the chance of digging out ice-huts like the Esquimaux."

"As to rest," said Servadac, "we shall take none; we shall keep on our way continuously; by
traveling day and night without intermission, we shall not be more than three days in reaching
Formentera."

"Believe me," persisted the lieutenant, calmly, "your enthusiasm is carrying you too far; the
feat you propose is impossible; but even conceding the possibility of your success in reaching
your destination, what service do you imagine that you, half-starved and half-frozen yourself,
could render to those who are already perishing by want and exposure? you would only bring
them away to die."

The obvious and dispassionate reasoning of the lieutenant could not fail to impress the minds
of those who listened to him; the impracticability of the journey became more and more apparent;
unprotected on that drear expanse, any traveler must assuredly succumb to the snow-drifts that
were continually being whirled across it. But Hector Servadac, animated by the generous desire
of rescuing a suffering fellow-creature, could scarcely be brought within the bounds of common
sense. Against his better judgment he was still bent upon the expedition, and Ben Zoof declared
himself ready to accompany his master in the event of Count Timascheff hesitating to encounter
the peril which the undertaking involved. But the count entirely repudiated all idea of shrinking
from what, quite as much as the captain, he regarded as a sacred duty, and turning to Lieutenant
Procope, told him that unless some better plan could be devised, he was prepared to start off
at once and make the attempt to skate across to Formentera. The lieutenant, who was lost in
thought, made no immediate reply.

"I wish we had a sledge," said Ben Zoof.

"I dare say that a sledge of some sort could be contrived," said the count; "but then we should
have no dogs or reindeers to draw it."

"Why not rough-shoe the two horses?"

"They would never be able to endure the cold," objected the count.

"Never mind," said Servadac, "let us get our sledge and put them to the test. Something must
be done!"

"I think," said Lieutenant Procope, breaking his thoughtful silence, "that I can tell you of
a sledge already provided for your hand, and I can suggest a motive power surer and swifter
than horses."

"What do you mean?" was the eager inquiry.

"I mean the Dobryna's yawl," answered the lieutenant; "and I have no doubt that the wind would
carry her rapidly along the ice."

The idea seemed admirable. Lieutenant Procope was well aware to what marvelous perfection the
Americans had brought their sail-sledges, and had heard how in the vast prairies of the United
States they had been known to outvie the speed of an express train, occasionally attaining
a rate of more than a hundred miles an hour. The wind was still blowing hard from the south,
and assuming that the yawl could be propelled with a velocity of about fifteen or at least
twelve leagues an hour, he reckoned that it was quite possible to reach Formentera within twelve
hours, that is to say, in a single day between the intervals of sunrise and sunrise.

The yawl was about twelve feet long, and capable of holding five or six people. The addition
of a couple of iron runners would be all that was requisite to convert it into an excellent
sledge, which, if a sail were hoisted, might be deemed certain to make a rapid progress over
the smooth surface of the ice. For the protection of the passengers it was proposed to erect
a kind of wooden roof lined with strong cloth; beneath this could be packed a supply of provisions,
some warm furs, some cordials, and a portable stove to be heated by spirits of wine.

For the outward journey the wind was as favorable as could be desired; but it was to be apprehended
that, unless the direction of the wind should change, the return would be a matter of some
difficulty; a system of tacking might be carried out to a certain degree, but it was not likely
that the yawl would answer her helm in any way corresponding to what would occur in the open
sea. Captain Servadac, however, would not listen to any representation of probable difficulties;
the future, he said, must provide for itself.

The engineer and several of the sailors set vigorously to work, and before the close of the
day the yawl was furnished with a pair of stout iron runners, curved upwards in front, and
fitted with a metal scull designed to assist in maintaining the directness of her course; the
roof was put on, and beneath it were stored the provisions, the wraps, and the cooking utensils.

A strong desire was expressed by Lieutenant Procope that he should be allowed to accompany
Captain Servadac instead of Count Timascheff. It was unadvisable for all three of them to go,
as, in case of there being several persons to be rescued, the space at their command would
be quite inadequate. The lieutenant urged that he was the most experienced seaman, and as such
was best qualified to take command of the sledge and the management of the sails; and as it
was not to be expected that Servadac would resign his intention of going in person to relieve
his fellow-countryman, Procope submitted his own wishes to the count. The count was himself
very anxious to have his share in the philanthropic enterprise, and demurred considerably to
the proposal; he yielded, however, after a time, to Servadac's representations that in the
event of the expedition proving disastrous, the little colony would need his services alike
as governor and protector, and overcoming his reluctance to be left out of the perilous adventure,
was prevailed upon to remain behind for the general good of the community at Nina's Hive.

At sunrise on the following morning, the 16th of April, Captain Servadac and the lieutenant
took their places in the yawl. The thermometer was more than 20 degrees below zero, and it
was with deep emotion that their companions beheld them thus embarking upon the vast white
plain. Ben Zoof's heart was too full for words; Count Timascheff could not forbear pressing
his two brave friends to his bosom; the Spaniards and the Russian sailors crowded round for
a farewell shake of the hand, and little Nina, her great eyes flooded with tears, held up her
face for a parting kiss. The sad scene was not permitted to be long. The sail was quickly hoisted,
and the sledge, just as if it had expanded a huge white wing, was in a little while carried
far away beyond the horizon.

Light and unimpeded, the yawl scudded on with incredible speed. Two sails, a brigantine and
a jib, were arranged to catch the wind to the greatest advantage, and the travelers estimated
that their progress would be little under the rate of twelve leagues an hour. The motion of
their novel vehicle was singularly gentle, the oscillation being less than that of an ordinary
railway-carriage, while the diminished force of gravity contributed to the swiftness. Except
that the clouds of ice-dust raised by the metal runners were an evidence that they had not
actually left the level surface of the ice, the captain and lieutenant might again and again
have imagined that they were being conveyed through the air in a balloon.

Lieutenant Procope, with his head all muffled up for fear of frost-bite, took an occasional
peep through an aperture that had been intentionally left in the roof, and by the help of a
compass, maintained a proper and straight course for Formentera. Nothing could be more dejected
than the aspect of that frozen sea; not a single living creature relieved the solitude; both
the travelers, Procope from a scientific point of view, Servadac from an aesthetic, were alike
impressed by the solemnity of the scene, and where the lengthened shadow of the sail cast upon
the ice by the oblique rays of the setting sun had disappeared, and day had given place to
night, the two men, drawn together as by an involuntary impulse, mutually held each other's
hands in silence.

There had been a new moon on the previous evening; but, in the absence of moonlight, the constellations
shone with remarkable brilliancy. The new pole-star close upon the horizon was resplendent,
and even had Lieutenant Procope been destitute of a compass, he would have had no difficulty
in holding his course by the guidance of that alone. However great was the distance that separated
Gallia from the sun, it was after all manifestly insignificant in comparison with the remoteness
of the nearest of the fixed stars.

Observing that Servadac was completely absorbed in his own thoughts, Lieutenant Procope had
leisure to contemplate some of the present perplexing problems, and to ponder over the true
astronomical position. The last of the three mysterious documents had represented that Gallia,
in conformity with Kepler's second law, had traveled along her orbit during the month of March
twenty millions of leagues less than she had done in the previous month; yet, in the same time,
her distance from the sun had nevertheless been increased by thirty-two millions of leagues.
She was now, therefore, in the center of the zone of telescopic planets that revolve between
the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, and had captured for herself a satellite which, according to
the document, was Nerina, one of the asteroids most recently identified. If thus, then, it
was within the power of the unknown writer to estimate with such apparent certainty Gallia's
exact position, was it not likely that his mathematical calculations would enable him to arrive
at some definite conclusion as to the date at which she would begin again to approach the sun?
Nay, was it not to be expected that he had already estimated, with sufficient approximation
to truth, what was to be the true length of the Gallian year?

So intently had they each separately been following their own train of thought, that daylight
reappeared almost before the travelers were aware of it. On consulting their instruments, they
found that they must have traveled close upon a hundred leagues since they started, and they
resolved to slacken their speed. The sails were accordingly taken in a little, and in spite
of the intensity of the cold, the explorers ventured out of their shelter, in order that they
might reconnoiter the plain, which was apparently as boundless as ever. It was completely desert;
not so much as a single point of rock relieved the bare uniformity of its surface.

"Are we not considerably to the west of Formentera?" asked Servadac, after examining the chart.

"Most likely," replied Procope. "I have taken the same course as I should have done at sea,
and I have kept some distance to windward of the island; we can bear straight down upon it
whenever we like."

"Bear down then, now; and as quickly as you can."

The yawl was at once put with her head to the northeast and Captain Servadac, in defiance of
the icy blast, remained standing at the bow, his gaze fixed on the horizon.

All at once his eye brightened.

"Look! look!" he exclaimed, pointing to a faint outline that broke the monotony of the circle
that divided the plain from the sky.

In an instant the lieutenant had seized his telescope.

"I see what you mean," said he; "it is a pylone that has been used for some geodesic survey."

The next moment the sail was filled, and the yawl was bearing down upon the object with inconceivable
swiftness, both Captain Servadac and the lieutenant too excited to utter a word. Mile after
mile the distance rapidly grew less, and as they drew nearer the pylone they could see that
it was erected on a low mass of rocks that was the sole interruption to the dull level of the
field of ice. No wreath of smoke rose above the little island; it was manifestly impossible,
they conceived, that any human being could there have survived the cold; the sad presentiment
forced itself upon their minds that it was a mere cairn to which they had been hurrying.

Ten minutes later, and they were so near the rock that the lieutenant took in his sail, convinced
that the impetus already attained would be sufficient to carry him to the land. Servadac's
heart bounded as he caught sight of a fragment of blue canvas fluttering in the wind from the
top of the pylone: it was all that now remained of the French national standard. At the foot
of the pylone stood a miserable shed, its shutters tightly closed. No other habitation was
to be seen; the entire island was less than a quarter of a mile in circumference; and the conclusion
was irresistible that it was the sole surviving remnant of Formentera, once a member of the
Balearic Archipelago.

To leap on shore, to clamber over the slippery stones, and to reach the cabin was but the work
of a few moments. The worm-eaten door was bolted on the inside. Servadac began to knock with
all his might. No answer. Neither shouting nor knocking could draw forth a reply.

"Let us force it open, Procope!" he said.

The two men put their shoulders to the door, which soon yielded to their vigorous efforts,
and they found themselves inside the shed, and in almost total darkness. By opening a shutter
they admitted what daylight they could. At first sight the wretched place seemed to be deserted;
the little grate contained the ashes of a fire long since extinguished; all looked black and
desolate. Another instant's investigation, however, revealed a bed in the extreme corner, and
extended on the bed a human form.

"Dead!" sighed Servadac; "dead of cold and hunger!"

Lieutenant Procope bent down and anxiously contemplated the body.

"No; he is alive!" he said, and drawing a small flask from his pocket he poured a few drops
of brandy between the lips of the senseless man.

There was a faint sigh, followed by a feeble voice, which uttered the one word, "Gallia?"

"Yes, yes! Gallia!" echoed Servadac, eagerly.

"My comet, my comet!" said the voice, so low as to be almost inaudible, and the unfortunate
man relapsed again into unconsciousness.

"Where have I seen this man?" thought Servadac to himself; "his face is strangely familiar to me."

But it was no time for deliberation. Not a moment was to be lost in getting the unconscious
astronomer away from his desolate quarters. He was soon conveyed to the yawl; his books, his
scanty wardrobe, his papers, his instruments, and the blackboard which had served for his calculations,
were quickly collected; the wind, by a fortuitous Providence, had shifted into a favorable
quarter; they set their sail with all speed, and ere long were on their journey back from Formentera.

Thirty-six hours later, the brave travelers were greeted by the acclamations of their fellow-colonists,
who had been most anxiously awaiting their reappearance, and the still senseless savant, who
had neither opened his eyes nor spoken a word throughout the journey, was safely deposited
in the warmth and security of the great hall of Nina's Hive.

END OF FIRST BOOK

BOOK II.

CHAPTER I. THE ASTRONOMER

By the return of the expedition, conveying its contribution from Formentera, the known population
of Gallia was raised to a total of thirty-six.

On learning the details of his friends' discoveries, Count Timascheff did not hesitate in believing
that the exhausted individual who was lying before him was the author alike of the two unsigned
documents picked up at sea, and of the third statement so recently brought to hand by the carrier-pigeon.
Manifestly, he had arrived at some knowledge of Gallia's movements: he had estimated her distance
from the sun; he had calculated the diminution of her tangential speed; but there was nothing
to show that he had arrived at the conclusions which were of the most paramount interest to
them all. Had he ascertained the true character of her orbit? had he established any data from
which it would be possible to reckon what time must elapse before she would again approach
the earth?

The only intelligible words which the astronomer had uttered had been, "My comet!"

To what could the exclamation refer? Was it to be conjectured that a fragment of the earth
had been chipped off by the collision of a comet? and if so, was it implied that the name of
the comet itself was Gallia, and were they mistaken in supposing that such was the name given
by the savant to the little world that had been so suddenly launched into space? Again and
again they discussed these questions; but no satisfactory answer could be found. The only man
who was able to throw any light upon the subject was lying amongst them in an unconscious and
half-dying condition.

Apart from motives of humanity, motives of self-interest made it a matter of the deepest concern
to restore animation to that senseless form. Ben Zoof, after making the encouraging remark
that savants have as many lives as a cat, proceeded, with Negrete's assistance, to give the
body such a vigorous rubbing as would have threatened serious injury to any ordinary mortal,
whilst they administered cordials and restoratives from the Dobryna's medical stores powerful
enough, one might think, to rouse the very dead.

Meanwhile the captain was racking his brain in his exertions to recall what were the circumstances
of his previous acquaintance with the Frenchman upon whose features he was gazing; he only
grew more and more convinced that he had once been familiar with them. Perhaps it was not altogether
surprising that he had almost forgotten him; he had never seen him since the days of his youth,
that time of life which, with a certain show of justice, has been termed the age of ingratitude;
for, in point of fact, the astronomer was none other than Professor Palmyrin Rosette, Servadac's
old science-master at the Lycee Charlemagne.

After completing his year of elementary studies, Hector Servadac had entered the school at
Saint Cyr, and from that time he and his former tutor had never met, so that naturally they
would well-nigh pass from each other's recollection. One thing, however, on the other hand,
might conduce to a mutual and permanent impression on their memories; during the year at the
Lycee, young Servadac, never of a very studious turn of mind, had contrived, as the ringleader
of a set of like caliber as himself, to lead the poor professor a life of perpetual torment.
On the discovery of each delinquency he would fume and rage in a manner that was a source of
unbounded delight to his audience.

Two years after Servadac left the Lycee, Professor Rosette had thrown up all educational employment
in order that he might devote himself entirely to the study of astronomy. He endeavored to
obtain a post at the Observatory, but his ungenial character was so well known in scientific
circles that he failed in his application; however, having some small private means, he determined
on his own account to carry on his researches without any official salary. He had really considerable
genius for the science that he had adopted; besides discovering three of the latest of the
telescopic planets, he had worked out the elements of the three hundred and twenty-fifth comet
in the catalogue; but his chief delight was to criticize the publications of other astronomers,
and he was never better pleased than when he detected a flaw in their reckonings.

When Ben Zoof and Negrete had extricated their patient from the envelope of furs in which he
had been wrapped by Servadac and the lieutenant, they found themselves face to face with a
shrivelled little man, about five feet two inches high, with a round bald head, smooth and
shiny as an ostrich's egg, no beard unless the unshorn growth of a week could be so described,
and a long hooked nose that supported a huge pair of spectacles such as with many near-sighted
people seems to have become a part of their individuality. His nervous system was remarkably
developed, and his body might not inaptly be compared to one of the Rhumkorff's bobbins of
which the thread, several hundred yards in length, is permeated throughout by electric fluid.
But whatever he was, his life, if possible, must be preserved. When he had been partially divested
of his clothing, his heart was found to be still beating, though very feebly. Asserting that
while there was life there was hope, Ben Zoof recommenced his friction with more vigor than ever.

