I fear that these notices of William Basse, thus collected together from scattered sources,
will not afford much information to Mr. Collier, beyond what he is already possessed of; but
they may possibly interest others, who may not be quite so conversant with our early writers
as that gentleman is known to be. I shall feel much gratified and obliged if he or any other
of your correspondents will add any further notices or communications respecting one who may
possibly have been personally known to Shakspeare, but whose name, at all events, will be handed
down to posterity in connection with that of our immortal bard.

THOMAS CORSER,

Stand Rectory, Feb. 22. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN STOWE.

In the Gentleman's Magazine, vol. vii., new series, p. 48., is a clever notice of the life
and works of the venerable John Stowe. It says:--

    "The biographers have affirmed that he quitted his trade; but
    there is nothing to authorize that assertion in what he says
    himself upon the subject."

In the preface to an edition of the Summarie for the Year {298} 1575, now in my possession,
Stowe says:--

    "It is nowe x yeres, since I (seeing the confuse order of our
    late englishe Chronicles, and the ignorant handling of aunciet
    affaires) leaning myne own peculiar gains, coscerated my selfe
    to the searche of our famous antiquities."

Stowe was born in 1525; he was then 40 years of age when he gave up his "peculiar gains," and
devoted himself entirely to antiquarian labours. There had already appeared his edition of
Chaucer in 1561, also the commencement of the Summaries; but his greater works, the Annals,
Survey of London, &c., were not published till several years after.

In his old age he was reduced to poverty, or rather to actual beggary; for shortly before his
death, when fourscore years old, he was permitted, by royal letters patent, to become a mendicant.
This curious document is printed in Mr. Bolton Corney's Curiosities of Literature Illustrated,
and sets forth, that

    "Whereas our louing Subject, John Stowe, this fine & forty yeers
    hath to his great charge, & with neglect of his ordinary meanes
    of maintenance (for the generall good as well of posteritie, as
    of the present age) compiled and published diuerse necessary
    bookes & Chronicles; and therefore we, in recompense of these
    his painfull laboures, & for the encouragement to the like, haue
    in our royall inclination ben pleased to graunt our Letters
    Patents &c. &c.; thereby authorizing him and his deputies to
    collect amongst our louing subjects, theyr voluntary
    contributions & kinde gratuities."

The whole preface to this edition of the Summarie is curious, and is followed by a List of
"Authors out of whom this Summary is collected."

In Hearne's Robert of Gloster, preface, p. lxi., allusion is made to these Summaries. He says:--

    "I have not yet met with a copy of this Summary in which we
    have an account of his authors."

After a panegyric on Stowe's incredible industry he says:--

    "Sir Roger Lestrange, talking some years before his death with a
    very ingenious and learned Gentleman about our Historians, was
    pleased to say, that it was always a wonder to him, that the
    very best that had penn'd our History in English should be a
    poor Taylour, honest John Stowe. Sir Roger said a Taylour,
    because Stowe, as is reported, was bred a cap-maker. The trade
    of Cap-making was then much in fashion, Hats being not at that
    time much in request."

J.E.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRANSPOSITION OF LETTERS.

The only reason, I imagine, which can be given for the transposition of letters spoken of by
Mr. Williams (No. 12. p. 184.), is that it was done on "phonetic" principles--for the sake
of euphony:--the new way was felt or fancied to be easier to the organs of speech, or (which
is nearly the same) pleasanter to those of hearing. Such alterations have at all times been
made,--as is well known to those versed in the earlier stages of the language,--and often most
arbitrarily. It is needless to say that "provincial and vulgar" usage throws much light on
the changes in the forms of words; and perhaps a little attention to the manner in which words
are altered by the peasantry would illustrate the point in question more than a learned comment.

No form of verbal corruption is more frequent throughout the rural districts of England than
that produced by the transposition of letters, especially of consonants: such words as world,
wasp, great, are, as every one knows, still ordinarily (though less frequently than a dozen
years ago) pronounced wordle, waps, gurt. So with names of places: thus Cholsey (Berks.) is
called Chosley.

The dropping of a letter is to be accounted for in a like manner. Probably the word was first
pronounced short, and when the ear became accustomed to the shortened sound, the superfluous
(or rather unpronounced) letter would be dropped in writing. In proper names, to which your
correspondent particularly refers, we observe this going on extensively in the present day.
Thus, in Caermarthen and Caernarvon, though the e is etymologically of importance, it is now
very generally omitted--and that by "those in authority:" in the Ordnance Maps, Parliamentary
"Blue Books," and Poor-law documents, those towns are always spelled Carnarvon, Carmarthen.
A still more striking instance is that of a well-known village on the Thames, opposite Runnimede.
Awhile back it was commonly spelled Wyrardisbury; now it appears on the time-tables of the
South-Western Railway (and perhaps elsewhere) Wraysbury, which very nearly represents the local
pronunciation.

It is, perhaps, worth while to remark that letters are sometimes added as well as dropped by
the peasantry. Thus the Cockley, a little tributary of Wordsworth's Duddon, is by the natives
of Donnerdale invariably called Cocklety beck; whether for the sake of euphony, your readers
may decide.

And now, Sir, you will perhaps permit me to put a query. Tom Brown, in his Dialogues, p. 44.
ed. 1704., has a well-known line:--

  "Why was not he a rascal
  Who refused to suffer the Children of Israel to go
  into the Wilderness with their wives and families
  to eat the Paschal?"

which he says he found on some "very ancient hangings in a country ale-house." I have never
doubted that he was himself the author; but having heard it positively ascribed to a very different
person, I should be glad to know whether {299} any of your readers have met with it in an earlier
writer; and if so, to whom is it to be ascribed?

J.T.

Pet-Names--"Jack."--Perhaps one of your many readers, erudite in etymologies, will kindly explain
how "Jack" came to be used as the diminutive for John. Dr. Kennedy, in his recent interesting
disquisition on pet-names (No. 16. p. 242.), supposes that Jaques was (by confusion) transmuted
into "Jack;" a "metamorphosis," almost as violent as the celebrated one effected, some two
centuries ago, by Sir John Harrington. "Poor John," from being so long "Jack among his familiars,"
has been most scurvily treated, being employed to form sundry very derogatory compounds, such
as, Jackass, Jackpudding, Jack-a-dandy, Jackanapes, Jack-a-lent, Jack o' oaks (knave of clubs),
Jack-o' th' Lantern, &c. &c. Might not "Jack" have been derived from John, somewhat after the
following fashion:--Johan--Joan--Jan--Janchen or Jankin.

  "Ho! jolly Jenkin,
  I spy a knave in drinkin."

Jankin = little John. Jank--Jak. This etymology has, I confess, a very great resemblance to
the Millerian mode of educing Cucumber from Jeremiah King; but it is the most plausible which
occurs at present to

L. Kennaquhair.

John--Pisan.--I will thank you to inform your correspondent "C." (No. 15 p. 234.), that we
must look to the East for the "original word" of John. In the Waldensian MSS. of the Gospels
of the 12th Century, we find Ioanes, showing its derivation from the Greek Iohannaes. The word
Pisan occurs in the 33rd vol. of the Archæologia, p. 131.

I have considered it was a contraction for pavoisine, a small shield; and I believe this was
the late Dr. Meyrick's opinion.

B.W. Feb. 25.

Sir,--If the signature to the article in No. 16., "on Pet Names," had not been Scottish, I
should have been less surprised at the author's passing over the name of Jock, universally
used in Scotland for John. The termination ick or ck is often employed, as marking a diminutive
object, or object of endearment. May not the English term Jack, if not directly borrowed from
the Scottish Jock, have been formed through the primary Jock--John--Jock--Jack?

EMDEE.

Origin of the Change of "Mary" into "Polly" (No. 14. p. 215.).--This change, like many others
in diminutives, is progressive. By a natural affinity between the liquids r and l, Mary becomes
Molly, as Sarah, Sally, Dorothea, Dora, Dolly, &c. It is not so easy to trace the affinity
between the initials M. and P., though the case is not singular; thus, Margaret, Madge, Meggy,
Meg, Peggy, Peg--Martha, Matty, Patty--and Mary, Molly, Polly and Poll; in which last abbreviation
not one single letter of the original word remains: the natural affinity between the two letters,
as medials, is evident, as in the following examples, all of which, with one exception, are
Latin derivatives: empty, peremptory, sumptuous, presumptuous, exemption, redemption, and sempstress
and again, in the words tempt, attempt, contempt, exempt, prompt, accompt, comptroller (vid.
Walker's Prin. of Eng. Pron. pp. 42, 43.); in all which instances however, the p is mute, so
that "Mary" is avenged for its being the accomplice in the desecration of her gentle name into
"Polly." Many names of the other sex lose their initials in the diminutive; as,

Richard      Dick Robert       Bob William      Bill Edward       Ned Christopher  Kit Roger
Hodge,

and probably many others; but I have no list before me, and these are all that occur.

Philologos. Deanery of Gloucester, Shrove Tuesday, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARALLEL PASSAGES OR PLAGIARISMS IN CHILDE HAROLD.

Permit me to add two further plagiarisms or parallel passages on the subject of Childe Harold
to those already contributed by your valuable correspondent "Melanion."

Mrs. Radcliffe (who I am informed was never out of England) is describing in her Mysteries
of Udolpho, Chap. xvi. the appearance of Venice.

In one of his letters Lord Byron tells us of his fondness for the above novel.

Again in Kirke White's Christiad--

  "The lyre which I in early days have strung,
  And now my spirits faint, and I have hung
  The shell that solaced me in saddest hour
  On the dark cypress--"

May be compared with the last stanza but one of the 4th canto.

T.R.M.

       *       *       *       *       * {300}

INEDITED LINES BY ROBERT BURNS.

The following lines by Robert Burns have never appeared in any collection of his works. They
were given to me some time ago at Chatham Barracks by Lieut. Colonel Fergusson, R.M., formerly
of Dumfriesshire, by whom they were copied from the tumbler upon which they were originally
written.

Shortly before the death of Alan Cunningham I sent these verses to him, as well as two Epigrams
of Burns, "On Howlet Face," and "On the Mayor of Carlisle's impounding his Horse," which were
not included in his edition of Burns' works. In a letter which I received from Alan Cunningham,
and which now lies before me, he says:--

    "The pieces you were so good as to send me are by Burns, and the
    Epigrams are old acquaintances of mine. I know not how I came to
    omit them. I shall print them in the next edition, and say it
    was you who reminded me of them."

I believe that one or both of the Epigrams were printed in the 8vo. edition of the works in
one volume, but my name is not mentioned as the contributor, which I regret; for, as an enthusiastic
admirer of Burns, and a collector for many years of his fugitive pieces, it would have been
gratifying to me to have been thus noticed. Perhaps Cunningham did not superintend that edition.

The verses I now send you, and which may, perhaps, be worth preserving in your valuable miscellany,
originated thus:--On occasion of a social meeting at Brownhill inn, in the parish of Closeburn,
near Dumfries, which was, according to Alan Cunningham, "a favourite resting-place of Burns,"
the poet, who was one of the party, was not a little delighted by the unexpected appearance
of his friend William Stewart. He seized a tumbler, and in the fulness of his heart, wrote
the following lines on it with a diamond. The tumbler is carefully preserved, and was shown
some years since by a relative of Mr. Stewart, at his cottage at Closeburn, to Colonel Fergusson,
who transcribed the lines, and gave them to me with the assurance that they had never been printed.

The first verse is an adaptation of a well known Jacobite lyric.

  "You're welcome Willie Stewart!
    You're welcome Willie Stewart!
  There's no a flower that blooms in May
    That's half so welcome as thou art!

  Come bumper high, express your joy!
    The bowl--ye maun renew it--
  The tappit-hen--gae fetch her ben,
    To welcome Willie Stewart!

J. Reynell Wreford.

       *       *       *       *       *

LACEDÆMONIAN BLACK BROTH.

Your correspondent "R.O." having inquired after the author of the conjecture that the Lacedæmonian
Black Broth was composed wholly, or in part, of coffee, such an idea appearing to me to have
arisen principally from a presumed identity of colour between the two, and to have no foundation
in fact, I have endeavoured to combat it, in the first instance by raising the question, whether
it was black or not?

This has brought us to the main point, what the [Greek: zomos melas] really was. And here "R.O."
appears to rest content upon the probablity of coffee having been an ingredient. Permit me
to assign some additional reasons for entertaining a different opinion.

We read nothing in native writers of anything like coffee in Greece, indigenous or imported;
and how in the world was it to get into Laconia, inhabited, as it is well known to have been,
by a race of men the least prone of any to change their customs, and the least accessible to
strangers. Lycurgus, we are told, forbade his people to be sailors, or to contend at sea[6],
so that they had no means of importing it themselves; and what foreign merchant would sell
it to them, who had only iron money to pay withal, and dealt, moreover, as much as possible
by way of barter?[7]

But it may be said they cultivated the plant themselves; that is, in other words, that the
Helots raised it for them. If so, how happens it that all mention of the berry is omitted in
the catalogue of their monthly contributions to the Phiditia, which are said to have consisted
of meal, wine, cheese, figs, and a very little money?[8] and when the king of Pontus[9] indulged
in the expensive fancy of buying to himself (not hiring, let it be recollected) a cook, to
make that famous broth which Dionysius found so detestable, how came he not at the same time
to think of buying a pound of coffee also? Moreover, if we consider its universal popularity
at present, it is hardly to be supposed that, in ancient times, coffee would have suited no
palate except that of a Lacedæmonian.

With respect to the colour of the broth, I am reminded of my own reference to Pollux, lib.
vi. who is represented by your correspondent to say that the [Greek: melas zomos] was also
called [Greek: aimatia], a word which Messrs. Scott and Liddell interpret to {301} denote "blood
broth," and go on to state, upon the authority of Manso, that blood was a principal ingredient
in this celebrated Lacedæmonian dish. Certainly, if the case were really so, the German writer
would have succeeded in preparing for us a most disagreeable and warlike kind of food; but
my astonishment has not been small, upon turning to the passage, to find that "R.O.'s" authorities
had misled him, and that Pollux really says nothing of the kind. His words (I quote from the
edition 2 vols. folio, Amst. 1706) are these,

[Greek: "O de melas kaloumenos zomos Lakonikon men hos epi to poly to edesma. esti de hae kaloumenae
haimatia. to de thrion hode eskeuazon, k.t.l."]

The general subject of the section is the different kinds of flesh used by man for food, and
incidentally the good things which may be made from these; which leads the writer to mention
by name many kinds of broth, amongst which he says towards the end, is that called [Greek:
melas zomos] which might be considered almost as a Lacedæmonian dish; adding further, that
there was a something called hæmatia (and this might have been a black pudding or sausage for
anything that appears to the contrary); also the thrium, which was prepared in a manner he
proceeds to describe. Now the three parts of the sentence which has been given above in the
original do, to the best of my judgment, clearly refer to three different species of food;
and I would appeal to the candid opinion of any competent Greek scholar, whether, according
to the idiom of that language, the second part of it is so expressed, as to connect it with,
and make it explanatory of, the first. We want, for this purpose, a relative, either with or
without [Greek: esti]; and the change of gender in hæmatia seems perfectly unaccountable if
it is intended to have any reference to [Greek: zomos].

It may not be unimportant to add that the significant silence of Meursius, (an author surely
not to be lightly thought of) who in his Miscellanea Laconica says nothing of blood broth at
the Phiditia, implies that he understood the passage of Pollux as intended to convey the meaning
expressed above.

Another lexicographer, Hesychius, informs us that [Greek: Bapha] was the Lacedæmonian term
for [Greek: zomos]; and this, perhaps, was the genuine appellation for that which other Greeks
expressed by a periphrasis, either in contempt or dislike, or because its colour was really
dark, the juices of the meat being thoroughly extracted into it. That it was nutritive and
powerful may be inferred from what Plutarch mentions, that the older men were content to give
up the meat to the younger ones, and live upon the broth only[10], which, had it been very
poor, they would not have done.

When these remarks were commenced, it was for the purpose of showing, by means of a passage
not generally referred to, what the ancients conceived the "black broth" to be, and that consequently,
all idea of coffee entering into its composition was untenable. How far this has been accomplished
the reader must decide: but I cannot quit the subject without expressing my sincere persuasion,
founded upon a view of the authorities referred to, that the account given by Athenæus is substantially
correct. Pig meat would be much in use with a people not disposed to take the trouble of preparing
any other: the animal was fit for nothing but food; and the refuse of their little farms would
be sufficient for his keep. Athenæus also, in another passage, supplies us with a confirmation
of the notion that the stock was made from pig, and this is stronger because it occurs incidentally.
It is found in a quotation from Matron, the maker of parodies, who, alluding to some person
or other who had not got on very well at a Lacedæmonian feast, explains the cause of his failure
to have been, that the black broth, and boiled odds and ends of pig meat, had beaten him;

"[Greek: Damna min zomos te melas akrokolia t' hephtha.]"[11]

That their cookery was not of a very recondite nature, is evident from what is mentioned by
Plutarch, that the public meals were instituted at first in order to prevent their being in
the hands of artistes and cooks[12], while to these every one sent a stated portion of provisions,
so that there would neither be change nor variety in them. Cooks again were sent out of Sparta,
if they could do more than dress meat[13]; while the only seasoning allowed to them was salt
and vinegar[14]; for which reason, perhaps, Meursius considers the composition of the [Greek:
zomos melas] to have been pork gravy seasoned with vinegar and salt[15], since there seemed
to have been nothing else of which it could possibly have been made.

For MR. TREVELYAN's suggestion of the cuttlefish, I am greatly obliged to him; but this was
an Athenian dish, and too good for the severity of Spartan manners. It is impossible not to
smile at the idea of the distress which Cineparius must have felt, had he happened to witness
the performances of any persons thus swallowing ink bottles by wholesale.

The passages which have been already quoted, {302} either by R.O. or myself, will probably
give Mr. T. sufficient information of the principal ones in which the "black broth" is mentioned.

W.

[Footnote 6: Xen. de Rep. Lac.]

[Footnote 7: "Emi singula non pecuniâ sed compensatione mercium, jussit (Lycurgus)."--Justin.
iii. 2.]

[Footnote 8: Plut. in Lyc.]

[Footnote 9: Plut. in Lyc. The word is [Greek: priasthai], the cook probably a slave and Helot.
There seems some confusion between this story, and that of Dionysius tyrant of Syracuse, noticed
in the beginning of the Inst. Lacon., and by Cicero in the Tusculan Questions, v. 34. The Syracusan
table was celebrated.]

[Footnote 10: Plut. in Lyc.]

[Footnote 11: Ath. Deip. iv. 13. l. 93.]

[Footnote 12: Plut. in Lyc. "[Greek: En chersi daemiourgon kai mageiron.]"]

[Footnote 13: "[Greek: Edei de opsopoious en Lakedaimoni einai kreos monou ho de para touto
epizamenos exelauneto taes Spartaes]."--Æl. Var. Hist. xiv. 7.]

[Footnote 14: "[Greek: Hoi Lakones hoxos men kai halas dontes to mageiro, ta loipa keleuoysin
en to hiereio xaetein]."--Plut. de tuenda Sanitate.]

[Footnote 15: Meursii Misc. Lacon. lib. i. cap. 8.]

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

TEN QUERIES CONCERNING POETS AND POETRY.

1. In a curious poetical tract, entitled A Whip for an Ape, or Martin displaied; no date, but
printed in the reign of Elizabeth, occurs the following stanza:--

  "And ye grave men that answere Martin's mowes,
  He mockes the more, and you in vain loose times.
  Leave Apes to Dogges to baite, their skins to Crowes,
  And let old LANAM lashe him with his rimes."

Was this old Lanam, the same person as Robert Laneham, who wrote "a Narrative of Queen Elizabeth's
Visit to Kenilworth Castle in 1575"? I do not find his name in Ritson's Bibliographica Poetica.

2. In Spence's Anecdotes of Books and Men (Singer's edit. p. 22.), a poet named Bagnall is
mentioned as the author of the once famous poem The Counter Scuffle. Edmund Gayton, the author
of Pleasant Notes upon Don Quixote, wrote a tract, in verse, entitled Will Bagnall's Ghost.
Who was Will Bagnall? He appears to have been a well-known person, and one of the wits of the
days of Charles the First, but I cannot learn anything of his biography.

3. In the Common-place Book of Justinian Paget, a lawyer of James the First's time preserved
among the Harleian MSS. in the British Museum, is the following sonnet:--

  "My love and I for kisses play'd;
    Shee would keepe stakes, I was content;
  But when I wonn she would be pay'd,
    This made me aske her what she ment;
  Nay, since I see (quoth she), you wrangle in vaine,
    Take your owne kisses, give me mine againe."

The initials at the end, "W.S.", probably stand for William Stroud or Strode, whose name is
given at length to some other rhymes in the same MS. I should be glad to know if this quaint
little conceit has been printed before, and if so, in what collection.

4. What is the earliest printed copy of the beautiful old song "My Mind to me a Kingdom is?"
It is to be found in a rare tract by Nicholas Breton, entitled The Court and Country, or A
Briefe Discourse betweene the Courtier and Country-man, 4to. 1618. Query, is Breton its author?

5. Mr. Edward Farr, in his Select Poetry, chiefly Devotional, of the Reign of Queen Elizabeth
(vol. i, p. xix.), calls Nicholas Breton, Sir Nicholas. Is there any authority for Breton's
knighthood?

6. Can John Davies, the author of Sir Martin Mar-people, 1590, be identified with John Davies
of Hereford, or Sir John Davies, the author of Nosce Teipsum, 1599?

7. In whose possession is the copy of Marlow and Chapman's Hero and Leander, 1629, sold in
Heber's sale (Part iv., No. 1415)? Has the Rev. Alex. Dyce made use of the MS. notes, and the
Latin Epitaph on Sir Roger Manwood, by Marlow, contained in this copy?

8. Has any recent evidence been discovered as to the authorship of The Complaynt of Scotland?
Is Sir David Lindsay, or Wedderburn, the author of this very interesting work?

9.

The author of this old ballad, the learned editor says, was Michael Drayton; but I have not
been able to find it in any edition of his works which I have consulted. Can Mr. Tyler have
confounded it with Drayton's Poem on the same subject? Any information on this point will be
very acceptable.

10. On the fly-leaf of an Old Music Book which I lately purchased is the following little poem.
I do not remember to have seen it in print, but some of your correspondents may correct me.

  "TO THE LORD BACON WHEN FALLING FROM FAVOUR.

  "Dazel'd thus with height of place,
    Whilst our hopes our wits beguile;
  No man marks the narrow space
    'Twixt a prison and a smile.

  "Then since fortune's favours fade,
    You that in her arms do sleep,
  Learn to swim and not to wade,
    For the hearts of kings are deep.

  "But if greatness be so blind,
    As to burst in towers of air;
  Let it be with goodness lin'd,
    That at least the fall be fair.

  "Then, though dark'ned you shall say,
    When friends fail and princes frown;
  Virtue is the roughest way,
    But proves at night a bed of down."

It is in the hand-writing of "Johs. Rasbrick vic. de Kirkton," but whether he was the author,
or only the transcriber, is uncertain.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       * {303}

BISHOP COSIN'S FORM OF CONSECRATION OF CHURCHES.

We learn from Wilkins (Concilia, tom. iv. p. 566, ed. Lond. 1737), also from Cardwell (Synodal.
pp. 668. 677. 820. ed. Oxon. 1842), and from some other writers, that the care of drawing up
a Form of Consecration of Churches, Chapels, and Burial-places, was committed to Bishop Cosin
by the Convocation of 1661; which form, when complete, is stated to have been put into the
hands of Robert, Bishop of Oxon, Humphrey, Bishop of Sarum, Robert, Bishop of Lincoln, and
John, Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield, for revision.

I should feel much obliged if (when you can find space) you would kindly put the query to your
correspondents--"What has become of this Form?"

There is at Durham a Form of Consecration of Churches, said to be in the hand-writing of Basire;
at the end of which the following notes are written:

    "This forme was used at the consecration of Christ's Church,
    neare Tinmouth, by the Right Rev. Father in God, John, Lord
    Bishop of Duresme, on Sunday, the 5th of July, 1668.

    "Hæc forma Consecrationis consonant cum formâ Reverendi in
    Christo Patris Lanceloti Andewes, edit. anno 1659.

    "Deest Anathema, Signaculum in antiquis dedicationibus.

    "Deest mentio (Nuptiarum.
                  (Purificationis Mulierum."

As this, however, can hardly be the missing Form of Consecration of Churches, &c., which Cosin
himself seems to have drawn up for the Convocation of 1661, but which appears to have been
no more heard of from the time when it was referred to the four bishops for revision, the question
still remains to be answered--What has become of that Form? Can the MS. by any chance have
found its way into the Library of Peterhouse, Cambridge, or into the Chapter Library at Peterborough--or
is any other unpublished MS. of Bishop Cosin's known to exist in either of these, or in any
other library?

J. Sansom.

8. Park Place, Oxford, Feb. 18, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

PORTRAITS OF LUTHER, ERASMUS, AND ULRIC VON HUTTEN.

I am very much indebted to "S.W.S." for the information which he has supplied (No. 15. p. 232.)
relative to ancient wood-cut representations of Luther and Erasmus. As he has mentioned Ulric
von Hutten also (for whom I have an especial veneration, on account of his having published
Valla's famous Declamatio so early as 1517), perhaps he would have the kindness to state which
is supposed to be the best wood-cut likeness of this resolute ("Jacta est alea") man. "S.W.S."
speaks of a portrait of him which belongs to the year 1523. I have before me another, which
forms the title-page of the Huttenica, issued "ex Ebernburgo," in 1521. This was, I believe,
his place of refuge from the consequences which resulted from his annexation of marginal notes
to Pope Leo's Bull of the preceding year. In the remarkable wood-cut with which "[Greek: OYTIS,
NEMO]" commences, the object of which is not immediately apparent, it would seem that "VL."
implied a play upon the initial letters of Ulysses and Ulricus. This syllable is put over the
head of a person whose neck looks as if it were already the worse from unfortunate proximity
to the terrible rock wielded by Polyphemus. I should be glad that "S.W.S." could see some manuscript
verses in German, whcih are at the end of my copy of De Hutten's Conquestio ad Germanos. They
appear to have been written by the author in 1520; and at the conclusion, he has added, "Vale
ingrata patria."

R.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUESTIONS CONCERNING CHAUCER.

Lollius.--Who was the Lollius spoken of by Chaucer in the following passages?

  "As write mine authour Lolius."
  Troilus and Cresseide, b. i.

  "The Whichecote as telleth Lollius."
  Ib. b. v.

  "And eke he Lollius."--House of Fame, b. iii.

Trophee.--Who or what was "Trophee?" "Saith Trophee" occurs in the Monkes Tale.

Corinna.--Chaucer says somewhere, "I follow Statius first, and then Corinna." Was Corinna in
mistake put for Colonna? The

  "Guido eke the Colempnis,"

whom Chaucer numbers with "great Omer" and others as bearing up the fame of Troy (House of
Fame, b. iii.).

Friday Weather.--The following meteorological proverb is frequently repeated in Devonshire,
to denote the variability of the weather on Friday:

  "Fridays in the week
  are never aleek."

"Aleek" for "alike," a common Devonianism. {304} Thus Peter Pindar describes a turbulent crowd
of people as being

  "Leek bullocks sting'd by apple-drones."

Is this bit of weather-wisdom current in other parts of the kingdom? I am induced to ask the
question, because Chaucer seems to have embodied the proverb in some well-known lines, viz.:--

  "Right as the Friday, sothly for to tell,
  Now shineth it, and now it raineth fast,
  Right so can gery Venus overcast
  The hertes of hire folk, right as hire day
  Is gerfull, right so changeth she aray.
  Selde is the Friday all the weke ylike.