A

JOURNAL,

OF

A YOUNG MAN OF MASSACHUSETTS,

LATE

A SURGEON ON BOARD AN AMERICAN PRIVATEER,

WHO WAS CAPTURED AT SEA BY THE BRITISH, IN MAY, EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND THIRTEEN, AND WAS CONFINED
FIRST,

AT MELVILLE ISLAND, HALIFAX, THEN AT CHATHAM, IN ENGLAND ... AND LAST,

AT DARTMOOR PRISON.

INTERSPERSED WITH

OBSERVATIONS, ANECDOTES AND REMARKS,

TENDING TO ILLUSTRATE THE MORAL AND POLITICAL CHARACTERS OF THREE NATIONS.

TO WHICH IS ADDED,

A CORRECT ENGRAVING OF DARTMOOR PRISON,

REPRESENTING THE MASSACRE OF AMERICAN PRISONERS,

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

"Nothing extenuate, or set down aught in malice."... SHAKESPEARE.

THE SECOND EDITION, With considerable Additions and Improvements.

BOSTON: PRINTED BY ROWE & HOOPER ... 78 STATE-STREET,

1816.

District of Massachusetts, to wit:

                                            District Clerk's Office.

                             WM. S. SHAW,
                             Clerk of the District of Massachusetts.

TO

THE COMMON SENSE,

AND

HUMANE FEELINGS

OF THE PEOPLE OF AMERICA,

THIS JOURNAL IS INSCRIBED,

BY A LATE

PRISONER OF WAR

WITH THE BRITISH.

Massachusetts, County of } Hampshire, 1815.         }

A JOURNAL OF A YOUNG MAN OF MASSACHUSETTS

In December 1812, I found a schooner fitting out of Salem as a privateer. She had only four
carriage guns and ninety men. By the fifth of January, 1813, she was ready to sail and only
wanted some young man to go as assistant surgeon of her. The offer was made to me, when without
much reflection or consultation of friends, I stepped on board her in that capacity, with no
other ideas than that of a pleasant cruise and making a fortune. With this in view we steered
for the coast of Brazil, which we reached about the first of February.

Our first land-fall was not the most judicious, for we made the coast in the night, and in
the morning found ourselves surrounded with breakers. Fortunately for us a Portuguese schooner
was outside of us, and we hoisted out our boat and went on board her and received from her
commander and officers directions for clearing ourselves from these dangerous breakers. We
were then about sixty miles below Cape St. Roque. The captain of the Portuguese vessel kindly
informed us where to get water, in a bay then before us. We had English colours flying, and
all this time passed for a British vessel.

In a few hours we cast anchor in the bay, when our Captain went on shore and when he had discovered
the watering place he returned on board, and sent his water casks to be filled; but the inhabitants
collected around our men, and shewed, by their gestures and grimaces, a disposition to drive
us away. It is probable that they only wanted to make us pay for the water; for it is the way
of all the inhabitants of the sea shores every where to profit by the distresses of those who
are cast upon them. But pretending not to understand them, we got what water was necessary.

The next day a Portuguese ship of war came into the bay, on which we thought it prudent to
haul off, as we thought it not so easy to impose on a public ship as on a private one, with
our English colours and uniform. In beating up to Pernambuco, we spoke with vessels every day,
but they were all Portuguese. When near to St. Salvadore, we were in great danger of being
captured by a British frigate, which we mistook for a large merchantman, until she came within
half musket shot of us; but, luckily for us, it died away calm, when we out with our oars,
which seamen call sweeps, and in spite of their round and grape shot, we got clear of her without
any serious injury.

We would remark here, that sailors have a dialect of their own, and a phraseology by themselves.
Instead of right side, and left side, they say starboard and larboard. To tie a rope fast,
is to belay it. To lower down a sail, or to pull down a colour, is to dowse it; and so of many
other things. These peculiar phrases have been adopted from the Dutch, and from the Danes:
nations from whom the English learnt navigation. We may occasionally use some of these terms,
when it cannot well be avoided.

Our captain was not an American, neither was he an Englishman. He was a little bit of a man,
of a swarthy complexion, and did not weigh perhaps more than an hundred pounds by the scale.
During the firing, our little man stood upon the taffrail, swung his sword, d--d the English,
and praised his own men. He had been long enough in the United States to acquire property and
information, and credit enough to command a schooner of four guns and ninety men. The crew
considered him a brave man, and a good sailor, but not over generous in his disposition. Whether
the following is a proof of it, I cannot determine.

He allowed the crew but one gill of New England rum per day, which they thought an under dose
for a Yankee. They contended for more, but he refused it. They expostulated, and he remained
obstinate; when at length they one and all declared that they would not touch a rope unless
he agreed to double the allowance to half a pint. The captain was a very abstemious man himself,
and being very small in person, he did not consider that a man four times as big required twice
as much rum to keep his sluggish frame in the same degree of good spirits. He held out against
his crew for two days, during which time they never one of them so much as lifted a spun-yarn.
The weather was, be sure, very mild and pleasant. I confess, however, that I was very uneasy,
under the idea that we might all perish, from the obstinacy of the crew, on one side, and the
firmness of the little man on the other. Our captain found that his government was democratical;
and perceiving that the weather was about to change, he conceded to the large and fearful majority;
and New England spirit carried the day against a temperate European commander.

This habit of rum drinking makes a striking difference between the military of ancient and
modern days. If a Roman soldier, or a Carthagenian sailor, had his clothing, his meat, and
his bread, and his vinegar, he was contented, and rarely was guilty of mutiny. But the modern
soldier and sailor must, in addition to these, have his rum, or brandy, and his tobacco; deprive
him of these two articles, which are neither food nor clothing, and he infallibly mutinies:
that is, he runs the risk of the severest punishment, even that of death, rather than renounce
these modern luxuries. I have observed among sailors, that they bear the deprivation of rum
with more patience than the deprivation of tobacco. On granting the crew half a pint of rum
a day, they gave three cheers, and went to work with the greatest cheerfulness and alacrity.

The Americans, I believe, drink more spirits than the same class of people in England. The
labouring people, and sailors, cannot get it in Britain. A soldier whose regiment was quartered
in Boston, just before the revolution, held up his bottle to one of the new comers, and exclaimed,
"Here is a country for you, by J--s; I have been drunk once to-day, and have got enough left
to be drunk again: and all for six coppers!" What they then called coppers, we now call cents,
and the Londoners hap-pennies.

The next day we descried three sail steering for St. Salvadore. We gave chase to them; but
when we came within gun shot of the stern most, she fired her stern chasers at us. We brought
our four guns on one side, to attack, or to defend, as we should find ourselves circumstanced;
but night coming on, we saw no more of them.

Our water becoming short, we determined to gain our former watering place; but not being able
to reach it easily, we anchored off a little settlement, twenty miles distant from the place
where we watered before. Here our captain put on a British uniform, and waited on the commandant
of the place who, although he treated him with politeness, gave evident suspicions that he
was not an English officer. To prevent the awkward consequences of a detection, our captain
promised to send off a barrel of hams, and a keg of butter. Under the expectation of the fulfilment
of this rather rash promise, our crafty commander returned to his vessel, and left the place
very early next morning.

It was now the middle of March, and we had taken nothing; neither had we fired our cannon,
excepting at a miserable sort of a half boat and half raft, called a catamaran: made of five
light logs, with a triangular sail. From the men on this miserable vessel we got information
of a good watering place, where we soon anchored. The commandant of this little settlement
was of the colour of our North American Indians, and so were his family, but the rest were
nearly as black as negroes. He lived in a house covered and worked in with long grass; he offered
us snuff out of a box tipped with silver, but every thing else looked very rude and simple.
While we were getting our water, the females hovered round us. They had long, black, and shining
hair, and wore a long white cotton garment, like a shirt or shift. They seemed to admire our
complexions. One of these women, more forward than the rest, opened the bosom of one of our
fairest young men, to see if his body was as white as his face. She appeared to be highly amused
with the discovery, and called her companions to come and view the phenomenon. He shewed a
similar curiosity as it concerned her, but she shrunk from it with the apparent delicacy of
polished life, before so many men. The colour of these merry girls was that of the inside of
a new leather shoe.

Just as we were about embarking, the commandant told our captain that he had just received
a message from the commandant of Gomora, to seize him and all his crew and send them to Pernambuco,
but that he should not obey him. We now set sail for the United States, and had not been at
sea long before we were chased by a frigate, but out sailed her.

On the 20th of May we made Gay Head, which is the shining remains of an extinguished volcano,
on the west end of Martha's Vineyard. The next morning we discovered a ship and a brig standing
for us. We tacked and stood for the ship until we found that she was a man of war, and then
we wore round for the brig, she being nearest of our own size. We now, for the first time,
hoisted American colours, when the brig gave us a broadside, and kept up a constant fire upon
us; but we soon left her by our superior sailing and management. The frigate, for such she
proved to be, was not so easily got rid of. She was to the windward of us when we first saw
her; and she came within gun shot about noon. She firing her bow-chasers, and we our stern-chasers.
At length she came almost within musket shot of us, when she fired repeated broadsides into
our little schooner, so as to cut away almost all our rigging, when our brave little captain
went down below, after telling the men "to fight it out;" but they prudently struck their colours.
A boat soon came on board of us with a lieutenant and twelve marines, swearing most bravely
at the d--d Yankees. The name Yankee is used with pride by an American sailor or soldier; but
with derision by the British. But as our men had, according to custom, when a vessel surrenders,
seized whatever casks of liquor they could come at, soon filled out a few horns of gin, and
passed it round among the marines, which inspired them with good nature, and for a moment they
seemed "all hale fellows well met." The boarding officer did not appear to be so intent in
securing the vessel, as in searching every hole and corner for small articles to pocket. The
Americans disdain this dishonourable practice. The officers and crews of our men of war have
never soiled their characters by taking from their enemies the contents of their chests and
pockets, as the commanders of the British frigates, whom we have captured, can testify. We
were soon ordered on board of his Britannic Majesty's ship the Tenedos, captain Parker.

I had always entertained a respectable opinion of the British, especially of their national
marine. I had read British history, and listened to British songs, and had heard from my childhood
of the superior bravery and generosity of the British sailor, and had entertained a real respect
for their character; and being of a family denominated federalists, I may be said to have entered
the frigate Tenedos, captain Parker, with feelings and expectations very different from what
I should have felt, had we been at war with the French, and had it been a frigate of that nation
that had captured us. The French are a people marked by nature, as well as by customs and habits,
a different nation from us. Their language is different, their religion is different, and so
are their manners. All those things have conspired in making a wall of separation between us
and that lively people. But it is not so with the English. Our language, religion, customs,
habits, manners, institutions: and above all, books have united to make us feel as if we were
but children of the same great family, only divided by the Atlantic ocean. All these things
have a natural and habitual tendency to unite us; and nothing but the unfeeling and contemptuous
treatment of us by the British military generally, could have separated us. With all these
feelings and partialities about me, I went from our schooner over the side of the British frigate
with different feelings from what I should, had I been going on board an enemy's ship of the
French, Spanish, or Portuguese nation. But what was my change of feelings, on being driven
with the rest all up in a corner like hogs, and then marched about the deck, for the strutting
captain of the frigate to view and review us; like cattle in a market, before the drover or
butcher.

When our baggage was brought on board, the master of arms took every portable article from
us, not leaving us a jack-knife, pen-knife, or razor. We Americans never conduct so towards
British prisoners. We always respect the private articles of the officer and sailor.

On the same day we were put on board the brig Curlew, lieutenant Head, a polite and humane
gentleman, and much beloved by his own crew. He is, I am informed, son of an English baronet.
He is a plain, honest man, with easy, elegant manners, and very unlike the sputtering commander
of the Tenedos: a man who allowed us to be stripped of all our little pocket articles: not
much to the honour of his commission, or credit of his nation. We were kept very close while
on board the Curlew, because her crew was very weak, principally decrepid old men and boys;
but then we were kindly spoken to, and respectfully and humanely treated by lieutenant Head,
and his worthy surgeon. We can discover real gentlemen at sea as well as on shore.

We were landed in Halifax, the principal British port of North America, and the capital of
Nova Scotia, on the 29th of May, 1813. We were soon surrounded by soldiers, and being joined
by a number of our countrymen, recently captured, we were attempted to be marshalled and paraded
in military order, so as to make as grand a show as possible, while marching through the streets
to prison. The first thing they did was to make us stand in platoons, and then the commanding
officer stationed a soldier on the flanks of each platoon to keep us regular, and to march
and wheel according to rule. The word was then given to march, when we all ran up together
just as we were when the strutting captain Parker reviewed us on the deck of the Tenedos. We
were then commanded to halt. As we have no such word of command on board of an American privateer,
some crowded on, while a few stopped. The young officer tried again, and made us stand all
in a row. Some of the crew told their comrades that when the captain sung out "halt," he meant
"avast," and that then they should all stop. When we were all in order again, the scarlet-coated
young gentleman, with a golden swab on his left shoulder, gave a second time the word of command,
"march;" by which word we all understood he meant, "to heave a head," when we got into the
like confusion again, when he cried out in a swearing passion, "halt," on which some stopped
short, and some walked on, when the whole squad burst out a laughing. I know not what would
have been the consequence of his ridiculous passion had not a navy officer, standing by, observed
to him, that they were not soldiers but sailors, who knew nothing about military marching,
or military words of command, when the young man told us to march on in our own way; upon which
our sailors stuck their fists in their pockets, and scrabbled and reeled on as sailors always
do; for a sailor does not know how to walk like a landsman. On which account I have been informed,
since my return from captivity, that all our seamen, that were sent from Boston to Sackett's
harbour, on Lake Ontario, were transported in coaches with four horses, chartered for the express
purpose; and that it was common, for many weeks together, to see a dozen of the large stage
coaches, setting out from Boston in a morning, full of sailors going up to the lakes, to man
the fleets of commodores Perry, Chauncey and M'Donough. The former of these commanders told
the writer, that he never allowed a sailor destined for his squadron to walk a single day.
These merry fellows used to ride through the country with their colors, and streamers and music,
and heaving the lead amidst the acclamations of the country people, who delight in a sailor
and in a ship. While these things were thus conducted in New-England, the people of Old England
were simple enough to believe that the war with England was unpopular. They judged of us by
our party newspapers.

The soldiers marched us about two miles, when we came to the spot, where we were to take boat
for Melville Island, the place of our imprisonment. When we arrived at the gates of the prison,
hammocks and blankets were served out to us, as our names were called over. We were then ordered
into the prison yard. And here I must remark, that I shall never forget the first impression,
which the sight of my wretched looking countrymen made on my feelings. Here we were, at once,
surrounded by a ragged set of quidnuncs, eagerly inquiring What news? where we were taken?
and how? and what success we had met with before we were taken? and every possible question,
for American curiosity to put to a promiscuous set of new comers.

After satisfying these brave fellows, who felt an uncommon interest in the events of the war,
and the news of the day, I had time to notice the various occupations of these poor fellows.
Some were washing their own clothes; others mending them. Others were intent on ridding their
shirts and other clothing from lice, which, to the disgrace of the British government, are
allowed to infest our prisoners. It may, in part, be owing to the nastiness and negligence
of the prisoners themselves, but the great fault and the disgrace, remain with the British.
Whoever could say that criminals, confined in our state prisons, were infested with vermin?--Were
our prison ships in Boston or Salem ever known to be lousy? Shame on, you Britons!

The buildings on Melville Island are constructed of wood. Beside the prison, there is a cooking
house, barracks for soldiers, and a store-house; a house for the officers, and another for
the surgeon. There are a couple of cannon pointing towards the prison; and a telegraph, for
the purpose of giving intelligence to the fort, which overlooks this island and the town of
Halifax. These buildings are painted red, and have upon the whole, a neat appearance. The prison
itself is two hundred feet in length, and fifty in breadth. It is two stories high; the upper
one is for officers, and for the infirmary and dispensary; while the lower part is divided
into two prisons, one for the French, the other for Americans. The prison yard is little more
than an acre--the whole island being little more than five acres. It is connected on the south
side with the main land by a bridge. The parade, so called, is between the turnkey's house
and the barracks. From all which it may be gathered that Melville Island is a very humble garrison,
and a very dreary spot for the officer who commands there.

The view from the prison exhibits a range of dreary hills. On the northern side are a few scattered
dwellings, and some attempts at cultivation; on the southern nothing appears but immense piles
of rocks, with bushes, scattered here and there in their hollows and crevices; if their summer
appearance conveys the idea of barrenness, their winter appearance must be dreadful in this
region of almost everlasting frost and snow. This unfruitful country is rightly named New Scotland.--Barren
and unfruitful as old Scotland is, our Nova Scotia is worse. If Churchill were alive, what
might he not say of this rude and unfinished part of creation, that glories in the name of
"New Scotland?" The picture would here be complete if it were set off with here and there a
meagre and dried up highlander, without shoes, stockings or breeches, with a ragged plaid,
a little blue flat bonnet, sitting on a bleak rock playing a bag-pipe, and singing the glories
of a country that never was conquered! To finish the picture, you have only to imagine a dozen
more ragged, raw-boned Scotchmen, sitting on the bare rocks around the piper, knitting stockings
to send to England and America, where they can afford to wear them. Such is Scotia, old and
new, whose sons are remarkable for their inveterate hatred of the Americans, as we shall see
in the course of this narrative.

As to the inside of the prison at Melville Island, if the American reader expects to hear it
represented as a place resembling the large prisons for criminals in the United States, such
as those at Boston, Charlestown, New York, or Philadelphia, he will be sadly disappointed.
Some of these prisons are as clean and nearly as comfortable, as some of the monasteries and
convents in Europe. Our new prisons in the United States reflect great honor on the nation.
To those unused to these lofty sleeping-births, they were rather unpleasant situations for
repose. But use makes every thing easy.

The first time I was shut up for the night, in this prison, it distressed me too much to close
my eyes. Its closeness and smell were, in a degree, disagreeable, but this was trifling to
what I experienced afterwards, in another place. If any, through natural heaviness, or indisposition,
was dilatory, he was sure to feel the bayonet of the brutal soldier, who appeared to us to
have a natural antipathy to a sailor, and from what I observed, I believe that in general little
or no love is lost between them.

This prison is swept out twice a week, by the prisoners.--The task is performed by the respective
messes in turns.--When the prison is washed, the prisoners are kept out until it is perfectly
dry. This, in the wet seasons, and in the severity of winter, is sometimes very distressing
and dangerous to health; for there is no retiring place for shelter; it is like a stable, where
the cattle are either under cover, or exposed to the weather, be it ever so inclement.

When we arrived here in May, 1813, there were about nine hundred prisoners; but many died by
the severity of the winter; for the quantity of fuel allowed by the British government was
insufficient to convey warmth through the prison. The men were cruelly harrassed by the barbarous
custom of mustering and parading them in the severest cold, and even in snow storms. The agent,
Miller, might have alleviated the sufferings of our people, had he been so disposed, without
relaxation of duty. But he, as well as the turnkey, named Grant, seemed to take delight in
tormenting the Americans. This man would often keep the prisoners out for many hours, in the
severest weather, when the mercury was ten and fifteen degrees below zero, under a pretext
that the prison had been washed, and was not sufficiently dry for their reception: when in
fact every drop of water used was in a moment ice. People in the southern states, and the inhabitants
of England and Ireland, can form no adequate idea of the frightful climate of Nova Scotia.
The description of the sufferings of our poor fellows the past winter, was enough to make one's
heart ach, and to rouse our indignation against the agents in this business.

Our people are sensible to kind treatment, and are ready to acknowledge humane and considerate
conduct towards themselves, or towards their companions; but they are resentful in proportion
as they are grateful. They speak very generally of the conduct of Miller, the agent, and Grant,
the turnkey, with disgust and resentment. A complaint was made to him of the badness of the
beef served out to the prisoners, upon which he collected the prisoners, and mounting the stair-case,
began a most passionate harrangue, declaring that the beef was good enough, and a d--d deal
better than they had in their own country: and if they did not eat it they should have none.
He then went on as follows "Hundreds of you, d--d scoundrels, have been to me begging and pleading
that I would interpose my influence that you might be the first to be exchanged, to return
home to your families, who were starving in your absence; and now you have the impudence to
tell me to my face, that the king's beef is not good enough for your dainty stomachs. Why some
of that there beef is good enough for me to eat. You are a set of mean rascals, you beg of
an enemy the favours which your own government won't grant you. You complain of ill treatment,
when you never fared better in your lives. Had you been in a French prison, and fed on horse
beef, you would have some grounds of complaint; but here in his Britannic Majesty's royal prison,
you have every thing that is right and proper for persons taken fighting against his crown
and dignity. There is a surgeon here for you if you are sick, and physic for you to take if
you are sick, and a hospital to go to into the bargain; and if you die, there are boards enough
(pointing to a pile of lumber in the yard) for to make you coffins, and an hundred and fifty
acres of land to bury you in; and if you are not satisfied with all this, you may die and be
d--d." Having finished this eloquent harrangue, orator Miller descended from his rostrum, and
strutted out of the prison yard, accompanied with hisses from some of the prisoners.

On a re-examination, however, of the "king's beef," some pieces were found too much tainted
for a dog to eat, and the prisoners threw it over the pickets. After this the supply of wholesome
meat was such as it ought to be; full good enough for Mr. Miller himself to eat; and some of
the very best pieces good enough for Mr. Grant, the turnkey.

In all this business of provision for prisoners of war, one thing ought to be taken into consideration,
which may be offered as an extenuation of crime alledged against the British agents for prisoners;
and that is, that the American soldier and sailor live infinitely better in America, than the
same class of people do in Great Britain and Ireland. Generally speaking, an American eats
three times the quantity of animal food that fall to the share of the same class of people
in England, Holland, Germany, Denmark, or Sweden. He sleeps more comfortably, and lives in
greater plenty of fish, flesh, vegetables, cider, and spirituous liquors. Add to this, his
freedom is in a manner unbounded. He speaks his mind to any man. If he thinks he is wronged,
he seeks redress with confidence; if he is insulted, he resents it; and if you should venture
to strike him, he never will rest quiet under the dishonour; yet you seldom or ever hear of
quarrels ending in murder. The dagger and pistol are weapons in a manner unknown. The fist,
a la mode de John Bull, is commonly the ultimatum of a Yankee's revenge.

We often hear the British, if they are unsuccessful, lamenting the war between England and
America; they call it an unhappy strife between brethren; and they attribute this "unnatural
war," to a French influence; and their friends in New England, who are denominated tories,
use the same language. They say that all the odium of the war ought to fall on our administration
and their wicked seducers, the French; and yet you will find that both in England, and at Halifax,
the French meet with better treatment than their dear brothers, the Americans.

We found that there were about two hundred French prisoners in Nova Scotia. Some had been there
ever since 1803. Few of them were confined in prison. The chief of them lived in or near the
town of Halifax, working for the inhabitants, or teaching dancing, or fencing, or their own
language. Some were employed as butchers and cooks; others as nurses in the hospital; and they
were every where favoured for their complaisance, obedience, and good humour. They had the
character of behaving better towards the British officers and inhabitants than the Americans,
and I believe with reason; for our men seem to take a delight in plaguing, embarrassing, and
alarming those who were set over them. A Frenchman always tried to please, while many Americans
seemed to take an equal delight in letting the Nova Scotians know that they longed to be at
liberty to fight them again. I confess I do not wonder that the submissive, smiling Frenchmen
made more friends at Halifax than the ordinary run of American seamen, who seemed too often
to look and speak as if they longed to try again the tug of war with John Bull.

Sunday being a leisure day among the men of business in Halifax and its vicinity, the old refugees
from the United States used to come round the prison to gratify their evil eyes, instead of
going to a place of worship, with the sight of what they called "rebels." These are generally
Scotchmen, or sons of Scotchmen, and are very bitter against the Americans. Some of this class
were clergymen, who came occasionally to pray and preach with us in prison. We paid every mark
of respect to every modest and prudent minister who came among us to perform divine service;
but we never could restrain our feelings, when one of these refugee gentlemen came among us,
praying for king George and the royal family of England. The men considered it as an insult,
and resented it accordingly. Some of these imprudent men would fulminate the vengeance of Heaven,
for what they conceived political, instead of moral errors. The prisoners respected some of
these reverend gentlemen highly, while they despised some others. The priesthood, however,
have less hold on the minds of the people of the United States, than of any other people on earth.

