I am Poverty scuffing about in old shoes and rubbers. I was one of those who, at a good salary,
think up smart things to put around in the corners of the Chicago Times. When every newspaper,
from the London Punch down, was making jokes about Elihu Burritt's Sanskrit for the Fireside,
it was I who beat them all by saying in solid nonpareil, "The best way to learn Sanskrit is
to board in a family of Sanskritters." It was I who said, "Let the Communists carry pistols:
they may shoot each other;" and, "Sara Bernhardt's children are articles of virtu."

O quam me delectat Sara Bernhardt! I love such diversified, such picturesque gifts. Sculpture,
painting, acting, writing! This is why I loved Lydia, who was an adept at numberless arts and
accomplishments. She was a brunette with a clear, cream-tinged skin, red cheeks, rolling black
eyes, ripe velvety lips, and hair of a beautiful hue and rich lustre--raven black, yet purple
as the pigeon's wing in the sun. I believe it is true that dark people belong to the pre-historic
races: centuries of sunlight are fused in their glowing complexion. Blondes are beautiful--both
the rosy ones with pinkish eyelids and warm golden locks, and the pale ones with ash-colored
hair, gray eyes and dark brows and lashes--but a florid brunette excels them all.

In seeing Lydia you would make the mistake that you usually make in judging girls: entering
among them, you think their attitudes proclaim their traits. For instance, you take the most
giggling one for a simpleton, but afterward learn that she is a good scholar and has accepted
the Greek chair in a Western college, and looking again you see she has a strong frame, a capable
head and large bright eyes. Lydia dressed in the mode, wore the high-heeled shoes that give
such a dainty look to the foot and gait, and came into a room with a great effusion of fashionableness;
yet she was not in the least what she seemed. She had a great deal of what is more pleasing
than mere appearance, and that is character. She was ambitious and energetic. She did tatting
when she did nothing else--said it concealed her lack of repose and liability to fidget. She
was able to draw la quintessence de tout: she could make a mountain-spring of a mole-hill.
She also had a touch of temper: those who are perfectly amiable are nothing else.

I was a youth blue-eyed and fair of face, tall, thin and having a complying spirit that has
been--But let me not anticipate. The race after fashion ever wearied me--I shall stop early
at some standing-collar or heavy-neckcloth period--and I never cared much for money--could
live with it or without it, desiring "this man's art or that man's scope" rather than his cash.
There is such a great majority of poor folks, I expected to be one of them; still, I had a
taste for honesty, asked favors of nobody, considered the least debt a degradation, and thought
myself better than most rich people. I was of the family and the religion of Plato, who peddled
oil to pay his expenses while travelling in Egypt.

We discover in others what they most wish to hide: therefore I early discovered that Lydia's
mother, who had a large girl-family, and who knew that the supply of some one to love greatly
exceeds the demand, was anxious to secure me as a son-in-law. I was glad of it, for, let poets
and novelists say what they will, the young fellow who marries with the approval of friends
drifts happily on, while the rash boy who weds against the good sense of his elders is dragged
bleeding along a rough way. So I married Lydia, and began life in gladness and content. I liked
her family and they liked me. It puzzles me to see how the English mother-in-law, who is a
grum-voiced, dogmatic and belligerent person with a jointure to bequeath, came to be engrafted
on our literature. The inoffensive delicacy of an American elderly woman forbids her the rôle
of her British sister. Our mother-in-law troubles are mostly confined to our low foreign population.
Neither have we a character similar to the silly, spiteful, dried-up old maid of English literature
and its American imitations, our spinsters being generally stout and jolly personages and rather
over-fond of children. My mother-in-law was very nice, and we were the best of friends.

Rich relations, as a general thing, are abominable: the mere possession of one sometimes makes
a person disagreeable. Show the person with a rich cousin the most secluded cot among mountains,
and, "Oh, you should see my cousin's house on Michigan Avenue!" is the reply; or a beautiful
room speaking the noble quality of its occupant, and, "Call that nice? You should see my cousin's
house on Michigan Avenue!" is remarked. But Lydia's rich relations, the Stenes of Chicago,
appeared to be exceptions. They were very clannish people, fond of their own kin to the last
degree. They came from Michigan, and were of the old colony stock, regular Yankee-Doodle folks,
the older ones and many of the younger ones still using New England idioms and quaint phrases
that came long ago from the East--yes, from the holts of old England's Suffolk perhaps. You
could not persuade one of them to call jelly anything but "jell" or a repast anything but a
"meal of victuals," and they said "dooty" and "roomor" and "noos" and "clawg," and sometimes
would pop out "his'n" and "her'n." Several of the Stenes had been in business thirty years
in metropolitan Chicago, yet they spoke in the twang of a Yankee hill-country. The women of
the family were famous housekeepers--too neat to keep a cat lest there might be a cat hair
on the carpet, and never liking visitors unless there was a dreadful note of preparation, and
then they received grandly. To show Lydia their good-will, they gave her profuse wedding-presents
and a splendid trousseau. On my side I bought a neat cottage, paying cash down--all the money
I had. It was one of a square of cottages principally occupied by young married people having
plenty of children, and a joyous crew they were. Our street had a broad roadway and flagged
sidewalks edged with neat turf in which fine trees were growing, and was lined with beautiful
homes of varied architecture, suggesting charming interiors. A row of tall, "high-stoop" New
York houses with dark stone trimmings stood next to a row of English basements of tuck-pointed
brick, and next to them was a range of houses of light, cheerful Joliet stone, with awnings
at the windows and carriage-steps as clean as gravestones. Then came an old cottage fixed up
nobby, then a comfortable old wooden mansion, then a splendid dwelling in the style of the
fifteenth century, and after that the palace of a railway grandee. Here and there on a corner
stood a Gothic church. All day well-dressed people trod our pavements and beautiful carriages
rolled by our windows. Our cottage was my ideal of perfection: it had few rooms, but those
spacious. We had no sitting-room. Let me see: what does that word suggest to my mind? A table
heaped with stale newspapers, a stand piled with sewing, a darned carpet, scratched furniture
and fly-specked wall-paper.

Lydia's presents filled our house. All were Eastlake and in good taste, the colors sage-green,
pumpkin-yellow and ginger-brown, dashed with splashes of peacock feathers and Japanese fans.
The vases were straddle-legged and pot-bellied Asiatic shapes. Dragons in bronze and ivory,
sticky-looking faïence and glittering majolica, stood in the corners. Silk embroideries representing
the stork--a scrawny bird with a scalp-lock at the back of its neck, looking like a mosquito
when flying--and porcelain landscapes out of drawing, like a child's first attempts, peopled
by individuals with the expression of having their hair pulled, hung 'twixt our dados and friezes.
Lydia's young-lady friends gave her their works in oil or water-colors done in a fine, free-hand
style that may one day form a school of its own. Our Chicago girls are people of nous. Their
talk is "fluent as the flight of a swallow:" their manners are delightful--American manners
must be excellent, so many Englishmen marry American girls. Their playing makes us glad the
seven poor strings of the old musicians have been multiplied to seven times seven: no Chicago
girl is a musician unless she has the masters at her finger-tips. And they are readers too.
You would suppose, judging from the papers, that our Chicagoans are inordinately fond of reading
about the indiscretions of rustic wives, and are given to a perusal of the news in startling
headlines: but such is not the fact. We are great readers of the distinguished magazines and
of first-rate books, and our taste for art is keen. When we go abroad we don't care so much
for mountains and rivers--they are like potatoes and pork to a man who is visiting: we have
them at home--but we are after art. Ruskin says no people can be great in art unless it lives
among beautiful natural objects; which is hard on us Chicago folks. If we had any mountainous
or rocky tracts we should not live in them. If we possessed a Mount Vesuvius we should use
it for getting up bogus eruptions to draw tourists to our hotels, and we should tap the foot
of the mountain to draw off the lava for our streets.

Lydia's finery had a subduing effect upon me, who had bounded my aspirations to what was distinctly
within my grasp--namely, things

  Plain, but not sordid--though not splendid, clean.

Lydia was an expert housekeeper. "I love a little house that I can clean all over," said she.
She would have liked a Roman villa made of polished marble, that could be scrubbed from top
to bottom, or a house of the melted and dyed cobble-stones that some genius has promised to
give us. Her china-closet was a picture, with platters in rows and cups hanging on little brass
hooks under the shelves. Our whole house was exquisite, and became quite renowned for its elegance
and charm. Lydia's exuberant vitality was attractive: her relations and friends liked to come
there. Some of our friends were of the high, haughty, tone-y sort, which would have been well
enough if we had not incurred debts in our housekeeping.

  What and how great the merit and the art
  To live on little with a thankful heart!

Lydia's rich uncle, Nathan Stene, gave us a bookcase that caused my heart to sink with an appalling
premonition at its first appearance, it was so huge and high. How we got it into our parlor
without cutting off the top and bottom words cannot explain. That bookcase was my first step
toward ruin. I had a good many books--not of scientific but of delightful literature, the best
works of the best authors--and my books were as shabby as Charles Lamb's library. There never
were such dilapidated volumes as my De Quinceys. Lydia had Young Mrs. Jardine and lots of other

  Stickjaw pudding that tires the chin,
  With the marmalade spread ever so thin;

and her books were new-looking. She said mine looked disgustingly dirty in our new bookcase,
so I had them rebound; and this was my next step toward ruin. Lydia wanted a long peacock-feather
duster to dust the top of the bookcase. I bought that. Our only long tablecloth was a damask,
engarlanded and diapered and resplendent with a colored border warranted to wash. I had to
buy napkins to go with it. I bought a butter-knife to match a solid silver butter-dish, and
a set of individual salt-spoons to match salt-cellars, and nut-picks and crackers to match
something else. Moreover, there was a magnificent opera-glass that required to be matched with
theatre-going--not as I was wont to go, in an old overcoat having its pockets stuffed with
old playbills. But why enumerate?

On the strength of her wedding-presents Lydia became a gladiatrix in the arena of society.
She already belonged to three clubs: she joined four more--Private Theatrical, a History of
Art, a Conversation and a Suffrage Club. I myself belong to but one, the Cremation Club--am
an officer in that: I split kindlings. As the bordered tablecloth was suitable for lunch-parties,
Lydia entertained her friends at an hour when I was about town looking up paragraphs, but I
have no doubt she carried it off bravely, and their discussions were as important as those
of a poultry convention on the question of feathers or no feathers on chickens' legs.

At this time I found that great feasts make small comforts scarce. Often, on coming home and
finding Lydia out, I had Ionic hours alone, when I refreshed myself with the great shouting,
cheering and laughter of the Greek armies and people that gladden our dull hearts even now,
and for want of anything better I regaled myself on the feasts offered by Machaon (first Scotchman)
in the Iliad, and by Nestor, on the table with azure feet and in the goblet with four handles
and four feet, with gold turtles drinking at the brim from the handles. Or I supped with Achilles
while Patroclus turned the meat on the bed of wide, glowing embers and the tent brightened
in the blaze. Once, when I was seeking something for that newspaper bore, Woman's Sphere, I
lunched with the Suffragists. Each character of the Suffrage Club was as clear as a figure
cut on a sapphire. The president, a matron of sixty wearing waving gray hair and dressed in
black, with plenty of white lace under her chin, had the air of a woman used to command a large
family and accustomed to plenty of money and to good society. Her voice was the agreeable barytone
of her years, its thin tones entirely gone, and her good English was like gentle music: nevertheless,
an occasional strong tone or gesture revealed her determined will. The Suffragists were handsomely
dressed, were self-possessed and appreciative of each other's company, and were of all ages,
one being a plain young girl quietly looking on and enjoying the world more than a self-wrapped
belle is capable of doing.

But to my tale, which is to me more absorbing than Rob Roy, Robinson Crusoe and Boots at the
Swan combined. Of all our visitors I preferred Uncle Nathan Stene. Not that I liked him personally.
He was the typical rich man: I should know he was rich wherever I met him. There are thousands
like him: they despise me utterly. Uncle Nathan had a scorn for poor people. He disdained whole
States that gave him a bad market, and regarded young fellows who smoke and go to the theatre
as beggars' dogs. He was of middle height, with reddish complexion, sandy hair and eyebrows,
quick, sharp gray eyes, and features of a short, clean, close aquiline cut, with thin, dry
lips--a man of iron, pig iron. When young he might have been facetious, but he had concentrated
his energies entirely on money, till there was nothing left to go in other directions, and
his humor was now as sombre as the grin of a hanged man. He had self-conceit, which is a talent
when combined with some other qualities. Doctor Johnson's observation, that to make money requires
talents, is true: a dull man cannot do it. Uncle Nate had to remember thirty thousand articles
in his business of wholesale druggist. He was a perfect devil-fish for sucking the goodness
from every business he was concerned in--banking, railroading, and so on. He belonged to the
Chicago Board of Trade, and was particularly useful in getting those fellows in Indianapolis
on a string, sending the wheat up, up, until the Hoosiers had made a few hundred thousands,
and then, when they thought they were going to make millions, letting it down and scooping
them. My habit of listening intently to Uncle Nate's telegrammatic style of talk caused him
to like me. I resembled King Lear: I talked with those who were wise, and said little, and
Nathan's aphorisms about trade and politics made good paragraphs when boiled down to the crisp
cracklins.

While I worked and Lydia entertained we were waltzing like the wind down to ruin. No use to
cry, "Ho! great gods! Hilloa! you're wanted here!" On we went.

Worrying over pecuniary affairs gradually sapped my mind. To lose one's eyes or all one's relations,
or to be bitten by a mad dog, will not unhinge the brain so completely as pecuniary anxiety.
My paragraphs, spite of Nate's verbum saps., lost their originality. I resigned my post on
the Times. I became the collector on commission of certain rents of Uncle Nathan's. Whoso collects
rents in Chicago tenements should know how to box or else to run: I could do neither. I got
little or nothing out of the devils and devillets, my respected uncle's tenants. He had a genius
for the despatch of business: I had none; therefore he concluded I was an ass, and wondered
how he came to be pleased with me. Oh, 'tis a good thing to know what you can do, and to do
that, and know what you cannot do, and leave that alone. Dull as weeds of Lethe was my task.
'Twas terrible! I thought it would never end. No greater misery could be imagined than what
I endured in Nathan's service.

One morning of those days I picked up a note in Lydia's writing hastily scrawled as follows:
"I have discovered your retreat: I must see you. At seven o'clock wave the lamp three times
across the window if all is well."

In my undecided way I pinned the note to the blue silk pincushion on Lydia's dressing-case.
I had a sudden jealous suspicion of an acquaintance of ours, a furiously-striking English traveller--"Bone-Boiler
to the Queen" or something--who had a long, silky, sweeping moustache blowing about in the
wind, and parted his hair "sissy." But I went to work all the same.

That day Uncle Nate was a worse screw than ever. "How is it you never hit a clam?" asked he.

"Your tenants have nothing, so I get nothing," I replied.

"Nonsense! They must have something. Drunken loafers are driving about in livery-rigs everywhere--sure
sign of prosperity."

"Your people are not out," I said.

"They sit around the house reading yesterday's newspapers."

"They can't get work," said I.

"Everybody that wants to work is in the ditch now-a-days: that I know" said the old man.

"Some are sick."

"They are well enough to walk three miles to a brewery after a free drink."

"Some are too young to work."

"Hah! what's the use of having a parcel of young ones to be poor relations to the rest of the
world?" asked he.

"Some are positively starving," said I.

"What of that? You have to let them starve. Five hundred thousand starved in India last year,
a country overrun with sacred snakes and animals of all sorts that they might have eaten. Three
millions starved in China, and they tore up their English railway, the only thing that could
save them. What are you going to do about it? Starving! Bet they are wallowing in the theatre
every night," said Nathan.

"The theatre with Lawrence Barrett! I wish they might see anything so elevating. Perhaps Othello
might make some impression on them, such a stupendous temperance lecture it is!" I groaned.

"If you would leave the theatre alone you wouldn't be quite so short as you are now," asserted
Uncle Nate, almost popping open with contempt.

"'Short,' man! 'Short' in your throat!" shouted I, forgetting myself.

"Yes, short; and it's my opinion you've shorted me in this business."

I could not kick our uncle out of his premises, so I got out myself, not to return; and I left
in debt to him as well as to the rest of the world. I went homeward. Though it was August,
a cold wind blew from the lake, whipping the large, flapping leaves of the castor-bean plants
in the front yards to rags. I quaffed the lake in the wet wind. "No wonder," I thought, "we're
three parts water: our world is." A young fellow on the street-car platform smoked a cigar
that smelled like pigweed, cabbage-stalks and other garden rubbish burning, and made me sick.
He enjoyed it, though: in fact, all, including the street-car driver himself, were on that
day more than usually engaged in the intense enjoyment of being Chicagoans. All but me, miserable.
The very windows and pavements of our streets, being clean and cold, sent a chill to my bones.

When I reached home Lydia was pinning on her habergeon, her neck-armor of ribbons and lace,
before the mirror. "What is this?" I asked, pointing to the suspicious note, still pinned to
the cushion.

"That's the note that has to be found in my room in the play of Lost in London," she answered,
turning the great lamps of her eyes on mine.

As I had nothing to say to this, I went and lay down on the sofa before the parlor-fire. Though
a grate in January is a poor affair--I never knew any human being who really depended on one
in winter to speak in praise of it--on a cool August day it is delicious. I fell into a warm
doze before the fire, then into a series of agreeable naps. When Lydia said supper was ready
I did not want any, and at bedtime I was too stiff to move easily.

After this, during several weeks, my bedchamber became to me a place full of sweet dreams and
rest and quiet breathing. Luxurious indifference, a pleasure in hearing the crickets in the
grass of the midsummer gardens, and voices talking afar--a satisfaction in seeing the polished
walnut, marble and china and plenteous linen towels of my washstand, my altar to Hebe, and
in seeing through a window,

  While day sank or mounted higher,
  The light, aërial gallery, golden railed,
  Burn like a fringe of fire

on some remote palace of the city. These and other sensations of malarial fever occupied me
for a while. In half dreams I then enjoyed the minutest details of life in an old farm-house
that had been my home, or walked through a picture-gallery I had once frequented, seeing each
picture strangely perfect and splendidly limned. Light diet and keeping quiet--which every
Westerner knows to be the cure of this fever--cured me. I came forth looking like a swairth,
one of those words marked "obs." in the dictionary--means phantom of a person about to die.
It ought to be revived; so here goes--swairth.

  Leaden before, my eyes were dross of lead.

I was pale and lank, but things had settled themselves in my mind: I had gone back to my old
ideas of honor and freedom; my mind was made up.

"Well, Lydia," said I, "you wanted to manage: you were bound to wear the breeches. As you make
your pants, so you must sit in them."

"You awful man!" said she.

"Now I will manage," said I.

"Indeed! Nothing would please me better," said she.

"I will sell our house and all that's in it, and get out of debt," said I.

"You mean to be one of the lower classes and wear old rags," she exclaimed.

"We have no class-distinctions but the Saving Class and the Wasting Class. I shall be of the
first class. As to clothes, they are despicable," I replied.

"People who despise clothes can't get any."

"Well, I've done all I'm going to do toward developing the West, which consists in getting
into debt, as far as I can see."

When an able woman submits she submits completely. Lydia put our house in order. I filled the
streets with dodgers advertising our sale. I have not been a paragraphist for nothing: the
sale was a success. I paid a part of my debts, and gave notes for the rest that will keep my
future poor. I started in again on the Times' city force. To board I hate: it's a chicken's
life--roosting on a perch, coming down to eat and then going back to roost. So I got a little
domicile in "The Patch." When the teakettle has begun to spend the evening the new cheap wallpaper,
the whitewash and the soapsuds with which the floor has been scrubbed emit peculiar odors.

"It smells poor-folksy here," says Lydia.

"All the better!" say I.
                         --MARY DEAN.

SHORT STUDIES IN THE PICTURESQUE.

Although our American climate, with its fierce and pitiless extremes of temperature, will never
give the lush meadows and lawns of moist England, yet in the splendid and fiery lustres of
its autumn forests, in its gorgeous sunsets and sunrises and in the wild beauty of its hills
and mountains there is that which makes an English Midland landscape seem tame in comparison.
The rapid changes of temperature in summer and the sudden rising of vast masses of heated air
produce cloud-structures of the most imposing description, especially huge, irregular cumulus
clouds that float in equilibrium above us like colossal icebergs, airy mountain-ranges or tottering
battlemented towers and "looming bastions fringed with fire."

  Yon clouds are big with flame, and not with rain,
    Massed on the marvellous heaven in splendid pyres,
  Whereon ethereal genii, half in pain
    And half in triumph, light their mystic fires.

The brilliant deep-blue Italian skies of the Middle and Southern States are full of poetry,
and will repay the most careful and prolonged study. I have seen, far up in the zenith, silvery
fringes of cirrus clouds forming and melting away at the same moment and in the same place,
ethereal and evanescent as a dream, easel-studies of Nature. Sometimes the clouds take the
form of most airily-delicate brown crape, "hatchelled" on the sky in minute lines and limnings.
Now the sky looks like a sweet silver-azure ceiling, the blue peeping here and there through
tender masses of silver frosting. The skies of the New England coast States are filled, during
a large part of spring, summer and autumn, with a white and dreamy haze, and do not produce
cloud-phenomena on such an imposing scale as the more brilliant skies of the interior. I shall
never forget a vast and glowing sunset-scene I once witnessed in the Ohio Valley. It lasted
but a few moments, but what a spectacle! The setting sun was throwing his golden light over
the intensely green earth, and suffusing the irregular masses of clouds now with a tender rosy
light and now with delicate saffron. All along the eastern horizon extended a black-blue cloud-curtain
of about twenty degrees in height, across which played the zigzag gold of the lightning. Overhead
hung the gigantic ring of a complete rainbow (a rare phenomenon), looking like the iridescent
rim of some vast sun that had shot from its orbit and was rapidly nearing our earth. In the
north the while slept the sweet blue sky in peace. What a phantasmagoria of splendor, "the
magic-lantern of Nature"! What a rich contrast of color!--the black and the gold, the green,
saffron, rose and azure, and the whole crowned with a rainbow garland of glowing flowers. I
felt assured that no sunset of Italy or Greece could fling upon the sky more costly pictures
than these.

The delicacy and accuracy of touch exhibited in The Scarlet Letter and in Oldport Days can
hardly be appreciated to the full by those who are unacquainted with certain mellow and crumbling
towns and hamlets of the New England coast, especially of the warm south coast. Soft mists
rise in summer like "rich distilled perfumes" from the warm Gulf Stream off Long Island Sound
and drift landward in invisible airy volumes. Suddenly, as at a given signal, the sky becomes
troubled, grows dun: trembling dew-specks glister upon the leaves, and in a few moments the
gray fog starts out of the air on every side and clings to tree, crag and house like shroud
to corpse. It is this warm moisture that gives to the south-coast hamlets their mellow tint.
I have especially in mind at this moment one romantic village whose stout old yeoman elms hold
their protecting foliage-shields over many a gray mansion as rich in tradition as the House
of the Seven Gables, and only awaiting the touch of some wizard hand to become immortalized.
The prevailing tint of these old houses, and of everything that a lichen can take hold of,
is a sage-gray. There seems to be something in the sea-breezes unusually favorable to the growth
of lichens, and they hold high carnival everywhere, growing in riotous exuberance on every
tree and rock and fence. I saw whole board fences so thickly tufted and bearded with a rich,
particolored mosaic of lichens that from base-board to cope-board there was scarcely a square
foot of the original wood to be seen. On any hazy Indian-summer afternoon, if you look down
the wide, irregular main street, lined with its mighty elms and gambrel-roofed houses, all
seems wrapped in a dim gray atmosphere of antiquity, like that surrounding Poe's House of Usher,
only not ghostly as that is. It is a strange je ne sais quoi that eludes description, as if
houses and trees stood at the bottom of a sea of visible heat.

Whatever of picturesqueness an English hamlet has, this American one has. It has its wealthy
hereditary aristocracy, its small farmers or squires and its peasants, its ruins and haunted
houses, its traditions of savages and of the great men who have honored it with their presence.
The town, moreover, is set off by a framework of the most enchanting and varied scenery--river,
streamlet, ocean, lighthouse, hills with flower-and-grass-tufted crags, and forests, while
on any summer's day one may see, far away and "sown in a wrinkle of the monstrous hill," some
neighboring village with its graceful spire of purest white gleaming and flaming in the hot
sunshine, like marble set in a foil of malachite.

A window of my room looked out upon a crystal stream that wound down through the salt-meadows
to the sea, and twice a day, under the influence of the seemingly-mysterious systole and diastole
of the tides, spread out into a wide-glittering lake and anon crept back again into its sinuous
bed. This water was as fickle and wanton and many-mooded as a coquettish girl. Now its translucent
glassy surface is unruffled by a single wrinkle, and in its brilliant depths every minutest
feature of yonder drifting hay-barge is weirdly mirrored. I look out again, and the face of
the water is working with rage under the lashing of the wind: at the same time its face seems
white with fear, and its ghostly arms are tossing, now in defiance and now in piteous appeal.
But now, as I gaze, the winds in their uncouth gambols tear a huge rent in the cloud-tent they
had raised over the earth, and in the sweet blue beyond appears the calm and smiling face of
the sun. Before its glance the wind-phantoms slink away in fear and the now quiet streamlet
smiles through its tears.

The stiff formality and the ridiculous solemnity of the old Puritan times still linger about
these secluded New England hamlets. But each winter a huge Christmas tree is set up in the
church of the village I have mentioned, and loaded with presents. The winter I was there I
went to see the distribution. Recollecting the delightful Christmas days of my own childhood,
I was anticipating great pleasure. Of course I was going to look in on a scene of childish
joy, of shouting and laughing, and eating of candy and pop-corn in unlimited quantities. Memories
of the stories of Hans Andersen and the Grimm brothers were floating through my mind as I crunched
the crisp snow under my feet on my way to the church. I remembered the rapture of those Christmas
mornings at home, when we children stole down stairs by candlelight to the warm room filled
with the aromatic perfume of the Christmas tree, that stood there resplendent with presents
from old Santa Claus--Noah's arks, mimic landscapes, dolls, sleds, colored cornucopias bursting
with bonbons, and especially those books of fairy-tales from whose rich creamy pages exhaled
a most divine and musty fragrance. Ah, the memory of our childhood's hours! what is it but
that enchanted lake of the Arabian tale, from whose quiet depths we are ever and anon drawing
up in our nets some magic colored fish? Well, I reached the church. The children, dressed in
their Sunday-go-to-meeting clothes, were sitting in the high-backed pews in solemn silence,
while a reverend gentleman was delivering a solemn exhortation to gratitude and goodness. Another
followed. "Very well, gentlemen," thought I, "but now please to retire and give up the field
to these children." But no. The superintendent of the Sunday-school now advanced: the children
marched up one by one, as their names were called, and received their presents from him. Some
of them came very near grinning (poor things!), but in general they looked as if they were
going to their execution. When all was done the meeting was dismissed! Picturesqueness characterizes
the New England white laborer, as it does the Southern black laborer: especially is this true
of those who have emigrated from Europe when of adult age, and have been unable to lay aside
the picturesque features of their Old-World life.

One winter evening I discovered, a few miles from the village, one of this class: he was, on
the whole, the strangest human being whom it has ever been my fortune to meet. About dusk I
found myself some distance away from the village, near the great bridge that spans the river
where it debouches into the sea. The water was heaving in long, slow swells. A deep silence
had fallen over the earth. The evening red was reflected in the sea in rich blood dye, while
the colored lights of the bridge and the lighthouse glowed and burned in the deep, here writhing
along the waves like long golden and crimson sea-serpents, and there shooting down long streamers
of light into the waves, to serve, I fancied, as hanging lamps for that vast black, star-bespangled
abyss of the sky, that weird sunken dome, that inverted world, over which the water lay stretched
out like thin, translucent red glass, and to look down into whose immeasurable and dizzy depths
thrilled me both with pleasure and a kind of terror--that vague feeling of pain which the sublime
always excites in the mind.

