What motives may have combined to overcome her scruples we cannot tell; perhaps a love of adventure,
probably an awakened ambition for a success in other domains than the one which advancing years
would soon compel her to abandon. She knew that Buonaparte had no fortune whatever, but she
also knew, on the highest authority, that both favor and fortune would by her assistance soon
be his. At all events, his suit made swift advance, and by the end of January, 1796, he was
secure of his prize. His love-letters, to judge from one which has been preserved, were as
fiery as the despatches with which he soon began to electrify his soldiers and all France.
"I awaken full of thee," he wrote; "thy portrait and yester eve's intoxicating charm have left
my senses no repose. Sweet and matchless Josephine, how strange your influence upon my heart!
Are you angry, do I see you sad, are you uneasy, ... my soul is moved with grief, and there
is no rest for your friend; but is there then more when, yielding to an overmastering desire,
I draw from your lips, your heart, a flame which consumes me? Ah, this very night, I knew your
portrait was not you! Thou leavest at noon; three hours more, and I shall see thee again. Meantime,
mio dolce amor, a thousand kisses; but give me none, for they set me all afire." What genuine
and reckless passion! The "thou" and "you" maybe strangely jumbled; the grammar may be mixed
and bad; the language may even be somewhat indelicate, as it sounds in other passages than
those given: but the meaning would be strong enough incense for the most exacting woman.

On February ninth, 1796, their banns were proclaimed; on March second the bridegroom received
his bride's dowry in his own appointment, on Carnot's motion, not on that of Barras, as chief
of the Army of Italy, still under the name of Buonaparte;[63] on the seventh he was handed
his commission; on the ninth the marriage ceremony was performed by the civil magistrate; and
on the eleventh the husband started for his post. In the marriage certificate at Paris the
groom gives his age as twenty-eight, but in reality he was not yet twenty-seven; the bride,
who was thirty-three, gives hers as not quite twenty-nine. Her name is spelled Detascher, his
Bonaparte. A new birth, a new baptism, a new career, a new start in a new sphere, Corsica forgotten,
Jacobinism renounced, General and Mme. Bonaparte made their bow to the world. The ceremony
attracted no public attention, and was most unceremonious, no member of the family from either
side being present. Madame Mère, in fact, was very angry, and foretold that with such a difference
in age the union would be barren.

              [Footnote 63: Carnot thoroughly understood and
              appreciated the genius shown in Buonaparte's plan for an
              Italian campaign, and converted the Directorate to his
              opinion. They sent a copy to Schérer, then in command at
              Nice, and he returned it in a temper, declaring that the
              man who made such a plan had better come and work it.
              The Directory took him at his word.]

There was one weird omen which, read aright, distinguishes the otherwise commonplace occurrence.
In the wedding-ring were two words--"To destiny." The words were ominous, for they were indicative
of a policy long since formed and never afterward concealed, being a pretense to deceive Josephine
as well as the rest of the world: the giver was about to assume a new rôle,--that of the "man
of destiny,"--to work for a time on the imagination and superstition of his age. Sometimes
he forgot his part, and displayed the shrewd, calculating, hard-working man behind the mask,
who was less a fatalist than a personified fate, less a child of fortune than its maker. "Great
events," he wrote a very short time later from Italy, "ever depend but upon a single hair.
The adroit man profits by everything, neglects nothing which can increase his chances; the
less adroit, by sometimes disregarding a single chance, fails in everything." Here is the whole
philosophy of Bonaparte's life. He may have been sincere at times in the other profession;
if so, it was because he could find no other expression for what in his nature corresponded
to romance in others.

The general and his adjutant reached Marseilles in due season. Associated with them were Marmont,
Junot, Murat, Berthier, and Duroc. The two last named had as yet accomplished little: Berthier
was forty-three, Duroc only twenty-three. Both were destined to close intimacy with Napoleon
and to a career of high renown. The good news of Napoleon's successes having long preceded
them, the home of the Bonapartes had become the resort of many among the best and most ambitious
men in the southern land. Elisa was now twenty, and though much sought after, was showing a
marked preference for Pasquale Bacciocchi, the poor young Corsican whom she afterward married.
Pauline was sixteen, a great beauty, and deep in a serious flirtation with Fréron, who, not
having been elected to the Five Hundred, had been appointed to a lucrative but uninfluential
office in the great provincial town--that of commissioner for the department. Caroline, the
youngest sister, was blossoming with greater promise even than Pauline. Napoleon stopped a
few days under his mother's roof to regulate these matrimonial proceedings as he thought most
advantageous. On March twenty-second he reached the headquarters of the Army of Italy. The
command was assumed with simple and appropriate ceremonial. The short despatch to the Directory
announcing this momentous event was signed "Bonaparte." The Corsican nobleman di Buonaparte
was now entirely transformed into the French general Bonaparte. The process had been long and
difficult: loyal Corsican; mercenary cosmopolitan, ready as an expert artillery officer for
service in any land or under any banner; lastly, Frenchman, liberal, and revolutionary. So
far he had been consistent in each character; for years to come he remained stationary as a
sincere French patriot, always of course with an eye to the main chance. As events unfolded,
the transformation began again; and the "adroit" man, taking advantage of every chance, became
once more a cosmopolitan--this time not as a soldier, but as a statesman; not as a servant,
but as the imperator universalis, too large for a single land, determined to reunite once more
all Western Christendom, and, like the great German Charles a thousand years before, make the
imperial limits conterminous with those of orthodox Christianity. The power of this empire
was, however, to rest on a Latin, not on a Teuton; not on Germany, but on France. Its splendor
was not to be embodied in Aachen nor in the Eternal City, but in Paris; and its destiny was
not to bring in a Christian millennium for the glory of God, but a scientific equilibrium of
social states to the glory of Napoleon's dynasty, permanent because universally beneficent.

CHAPTER XXV.

Europe and the Directory[64].

              [Footnote 64: For this and the succeeding chapters we
              have the memoirs of Thibaudeau, Marmont, Doulcet de
              Pontécoulant, Hyde de Neuville, and the duchess of
              Abrantès--Madame Junot. Among the histories, the most
              important are those of Blanc, Taine, Sybel, Sorel, and
              Mortimer-Ternaux. Special studies: C. Rousset, Les
              Volontaires de 1791-1794. Chassin: Pacifications de
              l'Ouest and Dictature de Hoche. Mallet du Pan:
              Correspondance avec la cour de Vienne. Also the
              Correspondence of Sandoz. Many original papers are
              printed in Hüffer: Oesterreich und Preussen; Bailleu:
              Preussen und Frankreich, 1795-1797; and in the Amtliche
              Sammlung von Akten aus der Zeit der Helvetischen
              Republik.]

     The First Coalition -- England and Austria -- The Armies of
     the Republic -- The Treasury of the Republic -- Necessary
     Zeal -- The Directory -- Its Members -- The Abbé Sieyès --
     Carnot as a Model Citizen -- His Capacity as a Military
     Organizer -- His Personal Character -- His Policy -- France
     at the Opening of 1796 -- Plans of the Directory -- Their
     Inheritance.

[Sidenote: 1796.]

The great European coalition against France which had been formed in 1792 had in it little
centripetal force. In 1795 Prussia, Spain, and Tuscany withdrew for reasons already indicated
in another connection, and made their peace on terms as advantageous as they could secure.
Holland was conquered by France in the winter of 1794-95, and to this day the illustrated school-books
recall to every child of the French Republic the half-fabulous tale of how a Dutch fleet was
captured by French hussars. The severity of the cold was long remembered as phenomenal, and
the frozen harbors rendered naval resistance impossible, while cavalry manoeuvered with safety
on the thick ice. The Batavian Republic, as the Dutch commonwealth was now called, was really
an appanage of France.

But England and Austria, though deserted by their strongest allies, were still redoubtable
enemies. The policy of the former had been to command the seas and destroy the commerce of
France on the one hand, on the other to foment disturbance in the country itself by subsidizing
the royalists. In both plans she had been successful: her fleets were ubiquitous, the Chouan
and Vendean uprisings were perennial, and the emigrant aristocrats menaced every frontier.
Austria, on the other hand, had once been soundly thrashed. Since Frederick the Great had wrested
Silesia from her, and thereby set Protestant Prussia among the great powers, she had felt that
the balance of power was disturbed, and had sought everywhere for some territorial acquisition
to restore her importance. The present emperor, Francis II, and his adroit minister, Thugut,
were equally stubborn in their determination to draw something worth while from the seething
caldron before the fires of war were extinguished. They thought of Bavaria, of Poland, of Turkey,
and of Italy; in the last country especially it seemed as if the term of life had been reached
for Venice, and that at her impending demise her fair domains on the mainland would amply replace
Silesia. Russia saw her own advantage in the weakening either of Turkey or of the central European
powers, and became the silent ally of Austria in this policy.

The great armies of the French republic had been created by Carnot, with the aid of his able
lieutenant, Dubois de Crancé; they were organized and directed by the unassisted genius of
the former. Being the first national armies which Europe had known, they were animated as no
others had been by that form of patriotism which rests not merely on animal instinct, but on
a principle. They had fought with joyous alacrity for the assertion, confirmation, and extension
of the rights of man. For the two years from Valmy to Fleurus (1792-94) they had waged a holy
war. But victory modified their quality and their attitude. The French people were too often
disenchanted by their civilian rulers; the army supplanted the constitution after 1796. Conscious
of its strength, and of itself as the armed nation, yet the officers and men drew closer and
closer for reciprocal advantage, not merely political but material. The civil government must
have money, the army alone could command money, and on all the military organization took a
full commission. Already some of the officers were reveling in wealth and splendor, more desired
to follow the example, the rank and file longed for at least a decent equipment and some pocket
money. As yet the curse of pillage was not synonymous with conquest, as yet the free and generous
ardor of youth and military tradition exerted its force, as yet self-sacrifice to the extreme
of endurance was a virtue, as yet the canker of lust and debauchery had not ruined the life
of the camp. Emancipated from the bonds of formality and mere contractual relation to superiors,
manhood asserted itself in troublesome questionings as to the motives and plans of officers,
discussion of what was done and what was to be done, above all in searching criticism of government
and its schemes. These were so continuously misleading and disingenuous that the lawyer politicaster
who played such a rôle at Paris seemed despicable to the soldiery, and "rogue of a lawyer"
was almost synonymous to the military mind with place-holder and civil ruler. In the march
of events the patriotism of the army had brought into prominence Rousseau's conception of natural
boundaries. There was but one opinion in the entire nation concerning its frontiers, to wit:
that Nice, Savoy, and the western bank of the Rhine were all by nature a part of France. As
to what was beyond, opinion had been divided, some feeling that they should continue fighting
in order to impose their own system wherever possible, while others, as has previously been
explained, were either indifferent, or else maintained that the nation should fight only for
its natural frontier. To the support of the latter sentiment came the general longing for peace
which was gradually overpowering the whole country.

No people ever made such sacrifices for liberty as the French had made. Through years of famine
they had starved with grim determination, and the leanness of their race was a byword for more
than a generation. They had been for over a century the victims of a system abhorrent to both
their intelligence and their character--a system of absolutism which had subsisted on foreign
wars and on successful appeals to the national vainglory. Now at last they were to all appearance
exhausted, their treasury was bankrupt, their paper money was worthless, their agriculture
and industries were paralyzed, their foreign commerce was ruined; but they cherished the delusion
that their liberties were secure. Their soldiers were badly fed, badly armed, and badly clothed;
but they were freemen under such discipline as is possible only among freemen. Why should not
their success in the arts of peace be as great as in the glorious and successful wars they
had carried on? There was, therefore, both in the country and in the government, as in the
army, a considerable and ever growing party which demanded a general peace, but only with the
"natural" frontier, and a small one which felt peace to be imperative even if the nation should
be confined within its old boundaries.

But such a reasonable and moderate policy was impossible on two accounts. In consequence of
the thirteenth of Vendémiaire, the radical party still survived and controlled the machinery
of government; and, in spite of the seeming supremacy of moderate ideas, the royalists were
still irreconcilable. In particular there was the religious question, which in itself comprehended
a political, social, and economic revolution which men like those who sat in the Directory
refused to understand because they chose to treat it on the basis of pure theory.[65] The great
western district of France was Roman, royalist, and agricultural. There was a unity in their
life and faith so complete that any disturbance of the equilibrium produced frenzy and chaos,
an embattled strife for life itself. It was a discovery to Hoche, that to pacify the Vendée
brute force was quite insufficient. The peasantry were beggared and savage but undismayed.
While he used force with nobles, strangers, and madmen, his conquest was in the main moral
because he restored to the people their fields and their church, their institutions somewhat
modified and improved, but still their old institutions. No man less gigantic in moral stature
would have dared thus to defy the petty atheistic fanaticism of the Directory. France had secured
enlightened legislation which was not enforced, religious liberty which could not be practised
because of ill will in the government, civil liberty which was a mere sham because of internal
violence, political liberty which was a chimera before hostile foreigners. Hence it seemed
to the administration that one evil must cure another. Intestine disturbances, they naïvely
believed, could be kept under some measure of control only by an aggressive foreign policy
which should deceive the insurgent elements as to the resources of the government. Thus far,
by hook or by crook, the armies, so far as they had been clothed and paid and fed at all, had
been fed and paid and clothed by the administration at Paris. If the armies should still march
and fight, the nation would be impressed by the strength of the Directory.

              [Footnote 65: See the author's French Revolution and
              Religious Reform.]

The Directory was by no means a homogeneous body. It is doubtful whether Barras was a sincere
republican, or sincere in anything except in his effort to keep himself afloat on the tide
of the times. It has been believed by many that he hoped for the restoration of monarchy through
disgust of the nation with such intolerable disorders as they would soon associate with the
name of republic. His friendship for General Bonaparte was a mixed quantity; for while he undoubtedly
wished to secure for the state in any future crisis the support of so able a man, he had at
the same time used him as a sort of social scapegoat. His own strength lay in several facts:
he had been Danton's follower; he had been an officer, and was appointed for that reason commanding
general against the Paris sections; he had been shrewd enough to choose Bonaparte as his agent
so that he enjoyed the prestige of Bonaparte's success; and in the new society of the capital
he was magnificent, extravagant, and licentious, the only representative in the Directory of
the newly aroused passion for life and pleasure, his colleagues being severe, unostentatious,
and economical democrats.

Barras's main support in the government was Rewbell, a vigorous Alsatian and a bluff democrat,
enthusiastic for the Revolution and its extension. He was no Frenchman himself, but a German
at heart, and thought that the German lands--Holland, Switzerland, Germany itself--should be
brought into the great movement. Like Barras, who needed disorder for his Orleanist schemes
and for the supply of his lavish purse, Rewbell despised the new constitution; but for a different
reason. To him it appeared a flimsy, theoretical document, so subdividing the exercise of power
as to destroy it altogether. His rôle was in the world of finance, and he was always suspected,
though unjustly, of unholy alliances with army contractors and stock manipulators. Larévellière
was another doctrinaire, but, in comparison with Rewbell, a bigot. He had been a Girondist,
a good citizen, and active in the formation of the new constitution; but he lacked practical
common sense, and hated the Church with as much narrow bitterness as the most rancorous modern
agnostic,--seeking, however, not merely its destruction, but, like Robespierre, to substitute
for it a cult of reason and humanity. The fourth member of the Directory, Letourneur, was a
plain soldier, an officer in the engineers. With abundant common sense and a hard head, he,
too, was a sincere republican; but he was a tolerant one, a moderate, kindly man like his friend
Carnot, with whom, as time passed by and there was gradually developed an irreconcilable split
in the Directory, he always voted in a minority of two against the other three.

At first the notorious Abbé Sieyès had been chosen a member of the executive. He was both deep
and dark, like Bonaparte, to whom he later rendered valuable services. His ever famous pamphlet,
which in 1789 triumphantly proved that the Third Estate was neither more nor less than the
French nation, had made many think him a radical. As years passed on he became the oracle of
his time, and as such acquired an enormous influence even in the days of the Terror, which
he was helpless to avert, and which he viewed with horror and disgust. Whatever may have been
his original ideas, he appears to have been for some time after the thirteenth of Vendémiaire
an Orleanist, the head of a party which desired no longer a strict hereditary and absolute
monarchy, but thought that in the son of Philippe Égalité they had a useful prince to preside
over a constitutional kingdom. Perhaps for this reason, perhaps for the one he gave, which
was that the new constitution was not yet the right one, he flatly refused the place in the
Directory which was offered to him.

It was as a substitute for this dangerous visionary that Carnot was made a director. He was
now in his forty-third year, and at the height of his powers. In him was embodied all that
was moderate and sound, consequently all that was enduring, in the French Revolution; he was
a thorough scholar, and his treatise on the metaphysics of the calculus forms an important
chapter in the history of mathematical physics. As an officer in the engineers he had attained
the highest distinction, while as minister of war he had shown himself an organizer and strategist
of the first order. But his highest aim was to be a model French citizen. In his family relations
as son, husband, and father, he was held by his neighbors to be a pattern; in his public life
he strove with equal sincerity of purpose to illustrate the highest ideals of the eighteenth
century. Such was the ardor of his republicanism that no man nor party in France was so repugnant
but that he would use either one or both, if necessary, for his country's welfare, although
he was like Chatham in his lofty scorn for parties. To him as a patriot, therefore, France,
as against the outer world, was first, no matter what her government might be; but the France
he yearned for was a land regenerated by the gospel of humanity, awakened to the highest activity
by the equality of all before the law, refined by that self-abnegation of every man which makes
all men brothers, and destroys the menace of the law.

And yet he was no dreamer. While a member of the National Assembly he had displayed such practical
common sense in his chosen field of military science, that in 1793 the Committee of Safety
intrusted to him the control of the war. The standard of rank and command was no longer birth
nor seniority nor influence, but merit. The wild and ignorant hordes of men which the conscription
law had brought into the field were something hitherto unknown in Europe. It was Carnot who
organized, clothed, fed, and drilled them. It was he who devised the new tactics and evolved
the new and comprehensive plans which made his national armies the power they became. It was
in Carnot's administration that the young generals first came to the fore. It was by his favor
that almost every man of that galaxy of modern warriors who so long dazzled Europe by their
feats of arms first appeared as a candidate for advancement. Moreau, Macdonald, Jourdan, Bernadotte,
Kléber, Mortier, Ney, Pichegru, Desaix, Berthier, Augereau, and Bonaparte himself,--each one
of these was the product of Carnot's system. He was the creator of the armies which for a time
made all Europe tributary to France.

Throughout an epoch which laid bare the meanness of most natures, his character was unsmirched.
He began life under the ancient régime by writing and publishing a eulogy on Vauban, who had
been disgraced for his plain speaking to Louis XIV. When called to a share in the government
he was the advocate of a strong nationality, of a just administration within, and of a fearless
front to the world. While minister of war he on one occasion actually left his post and hastened
to Maubeuge, where defeat was threatening Jourdan, devised and put into operation a new plan,
led in person the victorious assault, and then returned to Paris to inspire the country and
the army with news of the victory; all this he did as if it were commonplace duty, without
advertising himself by parade or ceremony. Even Robespierre had trembled before his biting
irony and yet dared not, as he wished, include him among his victims. After the events of Thermidor,
when it was proposed to execute all those who had authorized the bloody deeds of the Terror,
excepting Carnot, he prevented the sweeping measure by standing in his place to say that he
too had acted with the rest, had held like them the conviction that the country could not otherwise
be saved, and that therefore he must share their fate.

In the milder light of the new constitution the dark blot on his record thus frankly confessed
grew less repulsive as the continued dignity and sincerity of his nature asserted themselves
in a tolerance which he believed to be as needful now as ruthless severity once had been. For
a year the glory of French arms had been eclipsed: his dominant idea was first to restore their
splendor, then to make peace with honor and give the new life of his country an opportunity
for expansion in a mild and firm administration of the new laws. If he had been dictator in
the crisis, no doubt his plan, arduous as was the task, might have been realized; but, with
Letourneur in a minority of two, against an unprincipled adventurer leading two bigots, it
was impossible to secure the executive unity necessary for success.

At the opening of the year 1796, therefore, the situation of France was quite as distracting
as ever, and the foundation of her institutions more than ever unstable. There was hopeless
division in the executive, and no coördination under the constitution between it and the other
branches of the government, while the legislature did not represent the people. The treasury
was empty, famine was as wide-spread as ever, administration virtually non-existent. The army,
checked for the moment, moped unsuccessful, dispirited, and unpaid. Hunger knows little discipline,
and with temporary loss of discipline the morals of the troops had been undermined. To save
the constitution public opinion must be diverted from internal affairs, and conciliated. To
that end the German emperor must be forced to yield the Rhine frontier, and money must be found
at least for the most pressing necessities of the army and of the government. If the republic
could secure for France her natural borders, and command a peace by land, it might hope for
eventual success in the conflict with England. To this end its territorial conquests must be
partitioned into three classes: those within the "natural limits," and already named, for incorporation;
those to be erected into buffer states to fend off from the tender republic absolutism and
all its horrors; and finally such districts as might be valuable for exchange in order to the
eventual consolidation of the first two classes. Of the second type, the Directory considered
as most important the Germanic Confederation. There was the example of Catherine's dealing
with Poland by which to proceed. As that had been partitioned, so should Germany. From its
lands should be created four electorates, one to indemnify the House of Orange for Holland,
one for Würtemberg; the others according to circumstances would be confided to friendly hands.

The means to the end were these. Russia must be reduced to inactivity by exciting against her
through bribes and promises all her foes to the eastward. Prussia must be cajoled into coöperation
by pressure on King George of Hanover, even to the extinction of his kingdom, and by the hope
of a consolidated territory with the possibility of securing the Imperial dignity. Austria
was to be partly compelled, partly bribed, into a continental coalition against Great Britain
by adjustment of her possessions both north and south of the Alps. Into a general alliance
against Great Britain, Spain must be dragged by working on the fears of the queen's paramour
Godoy, prime minister and controller of Spanish destinies. This done, Great Britain, according
to the time-honored, well-worn device of France, royal or radical, should be invaded and brought
to her knees. The plan was as old as Philippe le Bel, and had appeared thereafter once and
again at intervals either as a bona fide policy or a device to stir the French heart and secure
money from the public purse for the public defense. For this purpose of the Directory the ruined
maritime power of the republic must be restored, new ships built and old ones refitted; in
the meantime, as did Richelieu or Mazarin, rebellion against the British government must be
roused and supported among malcontents everywhere within the borders of Great Britain, especially
in Ireland. Such was the stupid plan of the Directory: two well-worn expedients, both discredited
as often as tried. To the territorial readjustment of Europe, Prussia, though momentarily checked,
was already pivotal; but the first efforts of French diplomacy at Berlin resulted in a flat
refusal to go farther than the peace already made, or entertain the chimerical proposals now
made. Turning then to Austria, the Directory concluded the armistice of February first, 1796,
but at Vienna the offer of Munich and two thirds of Bavaria, of an outlet to the Adriatic and
of an alliance against Russia for the restoration of Poland--of course without Galicia, which
Austria should retain--was treated only as significant of what French temerity dared propose,
and when heard was scornfully disdained. The program for Italy was retained substantially as
laid down in 1793: the destruction of the papal power, the overthrow of all existing governments,
the plunder of their rich treasures, the annihilation of feudal and ecclesiastical institutions,
and the regeneration of its peoples on democratic lines. Neither the revolutionary elements
of the peninsula nor the jealous princes could be brought to terms by the active and ubiquitous
French agents, even in Genoa, though there was just sufficient dallying everywhere between
Venice and Naples to keep alive hope and exasperate the unsuccessful negotiators. The European
world was worried and harassed by uncertainties, by dark plots, by mutual distrust. It was
unready for war, but war was the only solvent of intolerable troubles. England, Austria, Russia,
and France under the Directory must fight or perish.

