Et primo incepit a digniori, scilicet a Guidone Guerra; et circa istius descriptionem lectori
est aliqualiter immorandum, quia multi mirantur, immo truffantur ignoranter, quod Dantes, qui
poterat describere istum praeclarum virum a claris progenitoribus et ejus claris gestis, describit
eum ab una femina, avita sua, Domna Gualdrada. Sed certe Auctor fecit talem descriptionem tam
laudabiliter quam prudenter, ut heic implicite tangeret originem famosae stirpis istius, et
ut daret meritam famam et laudem huic mulieri dignissimae.

A literal translation will afford the most telling comment on the nature of the Italian version.

TRANSLATION.

Here Dante makes mention of Guido Guerras, and many marvel at the modesty of the Author, in
deriving his own origin from him and from his wife, when he might have derived it from a more
noble source. But I find in such modesty the greater merit, in that he did not wish to fail
in affectionate gratitude toward her,--Gualdrada,--his ancestress,--giving her name and handing
her down as it were to eternity, while she by herself would perhaps have remained unknown.

TRANSLATION.

In the first place he began with the worthiest, namely, Guido Guerra; and in regard to the
description of this man it is to be dwelt upon a little by the reader, because scoff at Dante,
because, when he might have described this very distinguished man by his distinguished ancestors
and his distinguished deeds, he does describe him by a woman, his grandmother, the Lady Gualdrada.
But certainly the author did this not less praiseworthily than wisely, that he might here,
by implication, touch upon the origin of that famous family, and might give a merited fame
and praise to this most worthy woman.

It will be noticed that Signor Tamburini makes Dante derive his own origin from Gualdrada,--a
mistake from which the least attention to the original text, or the slightest acquaintance
with the biography of the poet, would have saved him.

Another amusing instance of stupidity occurs in the comment on the 135th verse of Canto XXVIII.,
where, speaking of the young king, son of Henry II. of England, Benvenuto says, "Note here
that this youth was like another Titus the son of Vespasian, who, according to Suetonius, was
called the love and delight of the human race." This simple sentence is rendered in the following
astounding manner: "John [the young king] was, according to Suetonius, another Titus Vespasian,
the love and joy of the human race"!

Again, in giving the account of Guido da Montefeltro, (Inferno, Canto XXVII.,) Benvenuto says
on the lines,

 --e poi fui Cordeliero,
  Credendomi si cinto fare ammenda,

"And then I became a Cordelier, believing thus girt to make amends,"--"That is, hoping under
such a dress of misery and poverty to make amends for my sins; but others did not believe in
him [in his repentance]. Wherefore Dominus Malatesta, having learned from one of his household
that Dominus Guido had become a Minorite Friar, took precautions that he should not be made
the guardian of Rimini." This last sentence is rendered by our translator,--"One of the household
of Malatesta related to me (!) that Ser Guido adopted the dress of a Minorite Friar, and sought
by every means not to be appointed guardian of Rimini." A little farther on the old commentator
says,--"He died and was buried in Ancona, and I have heard many things about him which may
afford a sufficient hope of his salvation"; but he is made to say by Signor Tamburini,--"After
his death and burial in Ancona many works of power were ascribed to him, and I have a sweet
hope that he is saved."

We pass over many instances of similar misunderstanding of Benvenuto's easily intelligible
though inelegant Latin, to a blunder which would be extraordinary in any other book, by which
our translator has ruined a most characteristic story in the comment on the 112th verse of
Canto XIV. of the "Purgatory." We must give here the two texts.

BENVENUTO

Et heic nota, ut videas, si magna nobilitas vigebat paulo ante in Bretenorio, quod tempore
istius Guidonis, quando aliquis vir nobilis et honorabilis applicabat ad terram, magna contentio
erat inter multos nobiles de Bretenorio, in cujus domum ille talis forensis deberet declinare.
Propter quod concorditer convenerunt inter se, quod columna lapidea figeretur in medio plateae
cum multis annulis ferreis, et omnis superveniens esset hospes illius ad cujus annulum alligaret
equum.

TRANSLATION.

And here take notice, that you may see if great nobility flourished a little before this time
in Brettinoro, that, in the days of this Guido, when any noble and honorable man came to the
place, there was a great rivalry among the many nobles of Brettinoro, as to which of them should
receive the stranger in his house. Wherefore they harmoniously agreed that a column of stone
should be set up in the middle of the square, furnished with many iron rings, and any one who
arrived should be the guest of him to whose ring he might tie his horse.

TAMBURINI.

Al tempo di Guido in Brettinoro anche i nobili aravano le terre; ma insorsero discordie fra
essi, e sparve la innocenza di vita, e con essa la liberalità. I brettinoresi determinarono
di alzare in piazza una colonna con intorno tanti anelli di ferro, quanto le nobili famiglie
di quel castello, e chi fosse arrivato ed avesse legato il cavallo ad uno de' predetti anelli,
doveva esser ospite della famiglia, che indicava l' anello cui il cavallo era attaccato.

TRANSLATION.

In the time of Guido in Brettinoro even the nobles ploughed the land; but discords arose among
them, and innocence of life disappeared, and with it liberality. The people of Brettinoro determined
to erect in the pub lic square a column with as many iron rings upon it as there were noble
families in that stronghold, and he who should arrive and tie his horse to one of those rings
was to be the guest of the family pointed out by the ring to which the horse was attached.

Surely, Signor Tamburini has fixed the dunce's cap on his own head so that it can never he
taken off. The commonest Latin phrases, which the dullest schoolboy could not mistranslate,
he misunderstands, turning the pleasant sense of the worthy commentator into the most self-contradictory
nonsense.

"Ad confirmandum propositum," says Benvenuto, "oceurrit mihi res jocosa,"[A]--"In confirmation
of this statement, a laughable matter occurs to me"; and he goes on to relate a story about
the famous astrologer Pietro di Abano. But our translator is not content without making him
stultify himself, and renders the words we have quoted, "A maggiore conferma referiro un fatto
a me accaduto"; that is, he makes Benvenuto say, "I will report an incident that happened to
me," and then go on to tell the story of Pietro di Abano, which had no more to do with him
than with Signor Tamburini himself.

[Footnote A: Comment on Purg. xvi. 80.]

We might fill page after page with examples such as these of the distortions and corruptions
of Benvenuto's meaning which we have noted on the margin of this so-called translation. But
we have given more than enough to prove the charge of incompetence against the President of
the "Academy of the Industrious," and we pass on to exhibit him now no longer as simply an
ignoramus, but as a mean and treacherous rogue.

Among the excellent qualities of Benvenuto there are few more marked than his freedom in speaking
his opinion of rulers and ecclesiastics, and in holding up their vices to reproach, while at
the same time he shows a due spirit of respect for proper civil and ecclesiastical authority.
In this he imitates the temper of the poet upon whose work he comments,--and in so doing he
has left many most valuable records of the character and manners especially of the clergy of
those days--He loved a good story, and he did not hesitate to tell it even when it went hard
against the priests. He knew and he would not hide the corruptions of the Church, and he was
not the man to spare the vices which were sapping the foundations not so much of the Church
as of religion itself. But his translator is of a different order of men, one of the devout
votaries of falsehood and concealment; and he has done his best to remove some of the most
characteristic touches of Benvenuto's work, regarding them as unfavorable to the Church, which
even now in the nineteenth century cannot well bear to have exposed the sins committed by its
rulers and its clergy in the thirteenth or fourteenth. Signor Tamburini has sought the favor
of ecclesiastics, and gained the contempt of such honest men as have the ill-luck to meet with
his book. Wherever Benvenuto uses a phrase or tells an anecdote which can be regarded as bearing
in any way against the Church, we may be sure to find it either omitted or softened down in
this Papalistic version. We give a few specimens.

In the comment on Canto III. of the "Inferno," Benvenuto says, speaking of Dante's great enemy,
Boniface VIII.,--"Auctor ssepissime dicit de ipso Bonifacio magna mala, qui de rei veritate
fuit magnanimus peccator": "Our author very often speaks exceedingly ill of Boniface, who was
in very truth a grand sinner." This sentence is omitted in the translation.

Again, on the well-known verse, (Inferno, xix. 53,) "Se' tu già costì ritto, Bonifazio?" Benvenuto
commenting says,--"Auctor quando ista scripsit, viderat pravam vitam Bonifacii, ct ejus mortem
rabidam. Ideo bene judicavit eum damnatum.... Heic dictus Nicolaus improperat Bonifacio duo
mala. Primo, quia Sponsam Christ! fraudulenter assumpsit de manu simplicis Pastoris. Secundo,
quia etiam earn more meretricis tractavit, simoniacc vendcndo eam, et tyrannice tractando":
"The author, when he wrote these things, had witnessed the evil life of Boniface, and his raving
death. Therefore he well judged him to be damned.... And here the aforementioned Pope Nicholas
charges two crimes upon Boniface: first, that he had taken the Bride of Christ by deceit from
the hand of a simple-minded Pastor; second, that he had treated her as a harlot, simoniacally
selling her, and tyrannically dealing with her."

These two sentences are omitted by the translator; and the long further account which Benvenuto
gives of the election and rule of Boniface is throughout modified by him in favor of this "magnanimus
peccator." And so also the vigorous narrative of the old commentator concerning Pope Nicholas
III. is deprived of its most telling points: "Nam fuit primus in cujus curia palam committeretur
Simonia per suos attinentes. Quapropter multum ditavit eos possessionibus, pecuniis et castellis,
super onmes Romanos": "For he was the first at whose court Simony was openly committed in favor
of his adherents. Whereby he greatly enriched them with possessions, money, and strongholds,
above all the Romans." "Sed quod Clerici capiunt raro dimittunt": "What the clergy have once
laid hands on, they rarely give up." Nothing of this is found in the Italian,--and history
fails of her dues at the hands of this tender-conscienced modernizer of Benvenuto. The comment
on the whole canto is in this matter utterly vitiated.

In the comment on Canto XXIX. of the "Inferno," which is full of historic and biographic material
of great interest, but throughout defaced by the license of the translator, occurs a passage
in regard to the Romagna, which is curious not only as exhibiting the former condition of that
beautiful and long-suffering portion of Italy, but also as applying to its recent state and
its modern grievances.

BENVENUTO.

Judicio meo mihi videtur quod quatuor deduxerunt eam nobilem provinciam ad tantam desolationem.
Primum est avaritia Pastorum Ecclesiae, qui nunc vendunt unam terram, nunc aliam; et nunc unus
favet uni Tyranno, nunc alius alteri, secundum quod saepe mutantur officiales. Secundum est
pravitas Tyrannorum suorum, qui semper inter se se lacerant et rodunt, et subditos excoriant.
Tertium est fertilitas locorum ipsius provinciae, cujus pinguedo allicit barbaros et externos
in praedam. Quartum est invidia, quae viget in cordibus ipsorum incolarum.

TAMBURINI.

Per me ritengo, che quattro fossero le cagioni per cui la Romagna si ridusse a tanta desolazione:
l' abuso per avarizia di alcuni ecclesiastici, che alienarono or una, or un' altra terra, e
si misero d' accordo coi tiranni,--i tiranni stessi che sempre erano discordi fra loro a danno
de' sudditi,--la fertilità de' terreni, che troppo alletta gli strani, ed i barbari,--l' invidia,
che regna fra gli stessi roma gnuoli.

"In my judgment," says Benvenuto, who speaks with the authority of long experience and personal
observation, "it seems to me that four things have brought that noble province to so great
desolation. The first of which is, the avarice of the Pastors of the Church, who now sell one
tract of its land, and now another; while one favors one Tyrant, and another another, so that
the men in authority are often changed. The second is, the wickedness of the Tyrants themselves,
who are always tearing and biting each other, and fleecing their subjects. The third is, the
fertility of the province itself, which by its very richness allures barbarians and foreigners
to prey upon it. The fourth is, that spirit of jealousy which flourishes in the hearts of the
inhabitants themselves." It will be noticed that the translator changes the phrase, "the avarice
of the Pastors of the Church," into "the avarice of some ecclesiastics," while throughout the
passage, as indeed throughout every page of the work, the vigor of Benvenuto's style and the
point of his animated sentences are quite lost in the flatness of a dull and inaccurate paraphrase.

A passage in which the spirit of the poet has fully roused his manly commentator is the noble
burst of indignant reproach with which he inveighs against and mourns over Italy in Canto VI.
of the "Purgatory":--

  Ahi serva Italia, di dolore ostello,
  Nave senza nocchiero in gran tempesta,
  Non donna di provincie, ma bordello.

"Nota metaphoram pulcram: sicut enim in lupanari venditur caro humana pretio sine pudore, ita
meretrix magna, idest Curia Romana, et Curia Imperialis, vendunt libertatem Italicam.... Ad
Italiam concurrunt omnes barbarae nationes cum aviditate ad ipsam conculcandam.... Et heic,
Lector, me excusabis, qui antequam ulterius procedam, cogor facere invectivam contra Dantem.
O utinam, Poeta mirifice, rivivisceres modo! Ubi pax, ubi tranquillitas in Italia?... Nunc
autem dicere possim de tola Italia quod Vergilius tuus de una Urbe dixit:

  ----'Crudelis ubique
  Lucutus, ubique pavor, et plurima mortis imago.'

.... Quanto ergo excusabilius, si fas esset, possem exclamare ad Omnipotentem quam tu, qui
in tempora felicia incidisti, quibus nos omnes nunc viventes in misera Italia possumus invidere?
Ipse ergo, qui potest, mittat amodo Veltrum, quem tu vidisti in Somno, si tamen umquam venturus
est."

"Note the beauty of the metaphor: for, as in a brothel the human body is sold for a price without
shame, so the great harlot, the Court of Rome, and the Imperial Court, sell the liberty of
Italy.... All the barbarous nations rush eagerly upon Italy to trample upon her.... And here,
Reader, thou shalt excuse me, if, before going farther, I am forced to utter a complaint against
Dante. Would that, O marvellous poet, thou wert now living again! Where is peace, where is
tranquillity in Italy?... But I may say now of all Italy what thy Virgil said of a single city,--'Cruel
mourning everywhere, everywhere alarm, and the multiplied image of death.' ...With how much
more reason, then, were it but right, might I call upon the Omnipotent, than thou who fellest
upon happy times, which we all now living in wretched Italy may envy! Let Him, then, who can,
speedily send the Hound that thou sawest in thy dream, if indeed he is ever to come!"

It would be surprising, but for what we have already seen of the manner in which Signor Tamburini
performs his work, to find that he has here omitted all reference to the Church, omitted also
the address to Dante, and thus changed the character of the whole passage.

Again, in the comment on Canto XX. of the "Purgatory," where Benvenuto gives account of the
outrage committed, at the instigation of Philippe le Bel, by Sciarra Colonna, upon Pope Boniface
VIII., at Anagni, the translator omits the most characteristic portions of the original.

       *       *       *       *       *

BENVENUTO.

Sed intense dolore superante animum ejus, conversus in rabiem furoris, coepit se rodere totum.
Et sic verificata est prophetia simplicissimi Coelestini, qui praedixerat sibi: Intrâsti ut
Vulpes, Regnabis ut Leo, Morieris ut Canis.

TAMBURINI.

L'angoscia per altro là vinse sul di lui animo, perchè fu preso da tal dolore, che si mordeva
e lacerava le membra, e cosi terminò sua vita. In tal modo nel corso della vita di Bonifazio
fu verificata la profezia di Celestino.

       *       *       *       *       *

"But his intense mortification overcoming the mind of the Pope, he fell into a rage of madness,
and began to bite himself all over his body. And thus the prophecy of the simple-minded Celestine
came true, who had predicted to him. Thou hast entered [into the Papacy] like a Fox, thou wilt
reign like a Lion, thou wilt die like a Dog."

It wilt be observed that the prophecy is referred to by the translator, but that its stinging
words are judiciously left out.

The mass of omissions such as these is enormous. We go forward to the comment on Canto XII.
of the "Paradiso," which exhibits a multitude of mutilations and alterations. For instance,
in the comment on the lines in which Dante speaks of St. Dominick as attacking heresies most
eagerly where they were most firmly established, (dove le resistenze eran più grosse,) our
translator represents Benvenuto as saying, "That is, most eagerly in that place, namely, the
district of Toulouse, where the Albigenses had become strong in their heresy and in power."
But Benvenuto says nothing of the sort; his words are, "Idest, ubi erant majores Haeretici,
vel ratione scientiae, vel potentiae. Non enim fecit sicut quidam moderni Inquisitores, qui
non sunt audaces nec solertes, nisi contra quosdam divites denariis, pauperes amicis, qui non
possunt facere magnam resistentiam, et extorquent ab eis pecunias, quibus postea emunt Episcopatum."

"That is, where were the greatest Heretics, either through their knowledge or their power.
For he did not do like some modern Inquisitors, who are bold and skilful only against such
as are rich in money, but poor in friends, and who cannot make a great resistance, and from
these they squeeze out their money with which they afterwards buy an Episcopate."

Such is the way in which what is most illustrative of general history, or of the personal character
of the author himself, is constantly destroyed by the processes of Signor Tamburini. From the
very next page a passage of real value, as a contemporary judgment upon the orders of St. Dominick
and St. Francis, has utterly disappeared under his hands. "And here take notice, that our most
far-sighted author, from what he saw of these orders, conjectured what they would become. For,
in very truth, these two illustrious orders of Preachers and Minorites, formerly the two brightest
lights of the world, now have indeed undergone an eclipse, and are in their decline, and are
divided by quarrels and domestic discords. And consequently it seems as if they were not to
last much longer. Therefore it was well answered by a monk of St. Benedict, when he was reproached
by a Franciscan friar for his wanton life,--When Francis shall be as old as Benedict, then
you may talk to me."

But there is a still more remarkable instance of Signor Tamburini's tenderness to the Church,
and of the manner in which he cheats his readers as to the spirit and meaning of the original,
in the comment on the passage in Canto XXI. of the "Paradise," where St. Peter Damiano rebukes
the luxury and pomp of the modern prelates, and mentions, among their other displays of vanity,
the size of their cloaks, "which cover even their steeds, so that two beasts go under one skin."
"Namely," says the honest old commentator, "the beast of burden, and the beast who is borne,
who in truth is the more beastly of the two. And, indeed, were the author now alive, he might
change his words, and say, So that three beasts go under one skin,--to wit, a cardinal, a harlot,
and a horse; for thus I have heard of one whom I knew well, that he carried his mistress to
the chase, seated behind him on the croup of his horse or mule, and he himself was in truth
'as the horse or as the mule, which have no understanding.'... And wonder not, Reader, if the
author as a poet thus reproach these prelates of the Church; for even great Doctors and Saints
have not been able to abstain from rebukes of this sort against such men in the Church." Nothing
of all this is to be found in the Italian version.

But it is not only in omission that the translator shows his devotion to the Church. He takes
upon himself not infrequently to alter the character of Benvenuto's narratives by the insertion
of phrases or the addition of clauses to which there is nothing corresponding in the original.
The comment on Canto XIX. of the "Inferno" affords several instances of this unfair procedure.
"Among the Cardinals," says Benvenuto, "was Benedict of Anagni, a man most skilful in managing
great affairs and in the rule of the world; who, moreover, sought the highest dignity." "Vir
astutissimus ad quseque magna negotia et imperia mundi; qui etiam affectabat summam dignitatem."
This appears in the translation as follows: "Uomo astutissimo, perito d' affari, e conoscitore
delle altre corti: affettava un contegno il più umile, e reservato." "A man most astute, skilled
in affairs, and acquainted with other courts; he assumed a demeanor the most humble and reserved."
A little farther on, Benvenuto tells us that many, even after the election of Benedict to the
Papacy, reputed Celestine to be still the true and rightful Pope, in spite of his renunciation,
because, they said, such a dignity could not be renounced. To this statement the translator
adds, "because it comes directly from God,"--a clause for the benefit of readers under the
pontificate of Pius IX.

In the comment on Canto XIX. of the "Purgatory" occurs the following striking passage: "Summus
Pontificatus, si bene geritur, est summus honor, summum onus, summa servitus, summus labor.
Si vero male, est summum periculum animae, summum malum, summa miseria, summus pudor. Ergo
dubium est ex omni parte negotium. Ideo bene praefatus Adrianus Papa IV. dicebat, Cathedram
Petri spinosam, et Mantum ejus acutissimis per totum consertum aculeis, et tantae gravitatis,
ut robustissimos premat et conterat humeros. Et concludebat, Nonne miseria dignus est qui pro
tanta pugnat miseria?"

"The Papacy, if it be well borne, is the chief of honors, of burdens, of servitudes, and of
labors; but if ill, it is the chief of perils for the soul, the chief of evils, of miseries,
and of shames. Wherefore, it is throughout a doubtful affair. And well did the aforesaid Pope
Adrian IV. say, that the Chair of Peter was thorny, and his Mantle full of sharpest stings,
and so heavy as to weigh down and bruise the stoutest shoulders; and, added he, Does not that
man deserve pity, who strives for a woe like this?"

This passage, so worthy of preservation and of literal translation, is given by Signor Tamburini
as follows: "The tiara is the first of honors, but also the first and heaviest of burdens,
and the most rigorous slavery; it is the greatest risk of misfortune and of shame. The Papal
mantle is pierced with sharp thorns; who, then, will excuse him who frets himself for it?"

But it is not only in passages relating to the Church that the translator's faithlessness is
displayed. Almost every page of his work exhibits some omission, addition, transposition, or
paraphrase, for which no explanation can be given, and not even an insufficient excuse be offered.
In Canto IX. of the "Paradise," Dante puts into the mouth of Cunizza, speaking of Foulques
of Marseilles, the words, "Before his fame shall die, the hundredth year shall five times come
around." "And note here," says Benvenuto, "that our author manifestly tells a falsehood; since
of that man there is no longer any fame, even in his own country. I say, in brief, that the
author wishes tacitly to hint that he will give fame to him by his power,--a fame that shall
not die so long as this book shall live; and if we may conjecture of the future, it is to last
for many ages, since we see that the fame of our author continually increases. And thus he
exhorts men to live virtuously, that the wise may bestow fame upon them, as he himself has
now given it to Cunizza, and will give it to Foulques." Not a word of this appears in Signor
Tamburini's pages, interesting as it is as an early expression of confidence in the duration
of Dante's fame.

A similar omission of a curious reference to Dante occurs in the comment on the 23d verse of
Canto XXVII. of the "Inferno," where Benvenuto, speaking of the power of mental engrossment
or moral affections to overcome physical pain, says, "As I, indeed, have seen a sick man cause
the poem of Dante to be brought to him for relief from the burning pains of fever."

Such omissions as these deprive Benvenuto's pages of the charm of naïveté, and of the simple
expression of personal experience and feeling with which they abound in the original, and take
from them a great part of their interest for the general reader. But there is another class
of omissions and alterations which deprives the translation of value for the special student
of the text of Dante,--a class embracing many of Benvenuto's discussions of disputed readings
and remarks upon verbal forms. Signor Tamburini has thus succeeded in making his book of no
use as an authority, and prevented it from being referred to by any one desirous of learning
Benvenuto's judgment in any case of difficulty. To point out in detail instances of this kind
is not necessary, after what we have already done.

