Eight years of earnest study followed, years full of happiness, because they were years of
progress, of growing religious experience, of expanding intellectual and spiritual vision.
The dream of his uncared for boyhood was in process of realization. He enjoyed the confidence
of teachers and scholars alike, for he was the soul of honor, and his word was the word of
truth. His vacations were spent in teaching in the common schools of Louisiana. Success always
crowned his efforts; his schools were usually full to overflowing. He taught in the Sunday-schools
and made himself useful in every form of Christian service. On one occasion the school house
was destroyed by fire, but nothing daunted, the enthusiastic teacher rallied the neighbors,
and with them and the scholars he went into the woods, chopped down the trees, hewed the logs,
and in a few days replaced the old building with a better, and the school went on more successfully
than ever.

And so on till the end of his life, difficulties were faced bravely and successfully. With
the assistance of friends, a cork leg took the place of the pole which he had lashed to the
stump of his lost limb. After completing the normal course, he took the usual course in theology.

On Vermillion Bay, not far from the Gulf Coast, and at the terminus of a branch of the Southern
Pacific Railroad, about twenty miles from Bayou Teche, the stream that keeps green and beautiful
the year round that section of Louisiana which was first settled by the exiled Acadians and
made famous in Longfellow's "Evangeline," is a thriving village. In the patois of the country
the people are called "Cajians," a corruption of Acadians. As a rule, they are non-progressive
and ignorant. But the spirit of modern progress, brought in on the railroad, is putting new
life into old customs.

In this village just waking into its new life, a humble man of faith, in the year 1885, organized
a Congregational church. The organizer of this new church, having only a limited education,
soon found himself at the end of his resources. The people were still hungry and still unfed.
One plants, another waters. Unknown to the people, and in his own good way and time, God was
preparing to answer their prayer for a shepherd who could lead them into the green pastures
and by the side of quiet waters.

The Arkansas lad, proud of the possession of his normal and theological diplomas, and now ready
for service, was sent by the A. M. A. to this prosperous village in the beautiful Teche country.
When Mr. H. arrived in the fading twilight of a June evening, and looked over the situation--a
rude, unfinished edifice, a scattered congregation, and a membership that had diminished almost
to the vanishing point--for the first time he began to have serious doubts whether after all
he had not mistaken his calling. After much searching, only ten or twelve discouraged members
could be found. Neither party was unduly impressed with the other. His doubt that he could
do anything for the church was probably fully respected by the members as they looked him over
and took his measure. The thoughts that came to him that night as he lay upon his restless
and dreamless pillow, were decidedly Jonah-like. Nor were the means lacking to follow the example
of that ancient prophet. Ships lay at anchor in Vermillion Bay ready to carry him out into
the gulf and the great sea beyond. The question what he should eat and drink, and wherewithal
he should be clothed, seemed to justify his flight. He was now learning that missionary service
is a fine thing to talk about in prayer meetings and missionary gatherings, but that the reality
often possesses a stern and forbidding countenance. Nor was much reflection needed to show
him that though the ships might take him away from the place of duty, they could not take him
away from duty itself; that it were better to bear poverty and privation than to bear a guilty
conscience.

It is always darkest before day. In a few weeks an ordaining council has assembled, his old
pastor and theological teacher being among the number. The harvest was ripe, waiting for the
reapers to put in the sickle, and what began as ecclesiastical council ended in a gracious
revival. The Arkansas lad was now a minister; the dream of his boyhood was rapidly fulfilling.

Three years and a half passed. The field which at first seemed so barren of promises had proved
to be rich in opportunities. The Louisiana Congregational Association holds its annual meeting
with him. His old pastor sends three other teachers. One of them, the wife of "the Boss," returns
with the other members of the ordaining council to see what progress has been made.

Yes, this must be the place; for the railroad stops here, and yonder is Vermillion Bay, and
the anchored ships. This, too, must be the young pastor; his limp betrays his identity, but
the face, whose pure native hue three years ago was darkened by the cloud of doubt is now wreathed
in smiles. Here, too, is the church, the same, yet not the same; its former disfigured and
unwashed face now shines in a new coat of paint; the unfinished and leaky bell-tower has been
repaired and beautified; and those old benches, apparently designed for those condemned to
do penance, have been replaced by comfortable modern seats, so that the worshipper's attention
is no longer diverted from the sermon by the painful consciousness of his physical sufferings.

But these changes, excellent in themselves, are by no means the highest test of these years
of faithful and consecrated service. The twelve members with whom the new pastor began, have
been nearly sextupled; the Sunday-school has been organized, enlarged and developed; a flourishing
Christian Endeavor Society started; and right conceptions of practical righteousness enforced.
The pastor's conception of his ministry includes a practical interest in education, and since
his advent an increasing stream of young people has been flowing to Straight University. Thrifty
himself, his contagious enthusiasm has not only affected his own flock, but the community generally,
filling them with ambition to save their humble earnings, and become owners of their own homes,
and send their children to school.

The esteem in which Mr. H. is held by the best white people of the town was well illustrated
at the recent meeting of the State Association. They not only crowded into the church, filling
every available space for standing, but stood outside at the windows for hours in earnest attention,
in the chilly night air. So great had their interest become that the last night of the Association,
one white man offered the pastor any price for a reserved seat for himself and lady friends,
and the town representative wrote him a polite note asking for a seat for himself and family,
and the next day the white people offered to procure the courthouse, that we might have a larger
place for our meeting.

Newspapers and magazines are teeming, nowadays, with articles claiming that our people's supreme
need is industrially trained men to indicate the road to prosperity. We gladly concede that
there is need enough and room enough for such men, but we part company with these advocates
when they intimate that we have too many liberally educated men. The value of such well educated
men may be seen in the example of Mr. H., who is only one of many young men who have gone forth
from Straight University and other A. M. A. institutions.

       *       *       *       *       *

ITEMS.

PENALTY FOR LYNCHING.--The Legislature of Ohio has passed the Anti-Lynching amendment which
makes it possible for the heirs of a person lynched to sue the county in which the crime is
committed for from $500 to $5,000. This is the right way to do. Every state in the Union ought
to be made to pay either one of these amounts. Why not let us agitate on these lines. The government
can never find the offenders, but under this law they can find the county.--The Conservator
of Chicago.

THE BLACK MILLIONAIRE ON HIS WAY.--Mr. T. Thomas Fortune, Editor of the New York Age, one of
the bright papers published by colored men, stated at a recent meeting that the race problem,
instead of being solved in the South, is being intensified by the present condition of things.
He deplored the fact of the black man being excluded by the labor unions from earning an honest
living, and, while the poor white people are employed in mills and factories of the cities,
the black man is left to till the soil. He is barred out from manual labor and in many cases
must either "starve or steal." This despised individual who "befo' de war," performed all the
labor, is now hardly able to earn a living. Yet, for all that, Mr. Fortune is confident that
in the future a "monstrosity" is coming. "I may not live to see him, but the black millionaire
is on his way."

THE TRIUMPHANT DEATH OF A CHRISTIAN INDIAN.--"It was my privilege to see her very frequently
in these last days and to be with the family circle when she died. Whenever I intimated that
my presence seemed like an intrusion, poor Uncle Elias always said, 'No, I like to have you
here; it strengthens me.' And when I was not there, he sent to have me come. It was just the
sympathy he felt. He was sure of that, for I loved her, too. Through it all Elias had been
lovely, a constant wonder to me in the strength of his beautiful faith which never faltered
for a moment. Again and again in those last hours, his voice led in prayer as we stood around
her bedside, and it seemed the spontaneous overflow of his soul. And in the accompanying hymn
each time, he also led. The last one which he gave out, only a few minutes before the faint
breathing ceased, was 'Praise God--', the doxology, (as it is in the Dakota, of course). His
faith triumphed over his sorrow for he knew she was going home to God. Only in that last prayer
from his breaking heart, his voice trembled as he pleaded that God would help him. Surely He
has helped him wonderfully."

FAMILY AFFECTION AMONG INDIANS.--I am impressed with the great degree of family affection in
some cases. I know one young girl who would profit much by going for several years to Santee.
Her parents are past middle life, and have buried many sons, and Millie is their only daughter,
so naturally they cling most tenderly to her, and it seems to me most a necessity that the
sacrifice should be made, and yet--I wish it could be different.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FROM MRS. A. E. R. JONES, MISSIONARY TO THE CHINESE.--Since writing you
last month I am happy to say that two of our pupils have entered Salt Lake College as students.
They have joined the preparatory classes in arithmetic and grammar. It is a great step for
them. We help them in our evening school in the lessons for the next day.

But this encouragement is little in comparison with the great blessing that has come to us.
By God's grace we trust three persons have been led to Himself. These desire to be baptized
next Sunday. It is no hasty act, but has been postponed for some time rather than to make haste.
We believe that their conversions are of the Lord and are true and genuine.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Indians.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW TYPE OF INDIAN UPRISING.

REV. GEORGE W. REED, FORT YATES, N. D.

The missionaries' correspondence begins to bring inquiries concerning an Indian uprising. With
the war news are mingled expressions of fear that the Indians will be only too ready to seize
upon the opportunity to avenge fancied wrongs. Most of the soldiers have been withdrawn from
the frontier posts. In regard to the Sioux, those who know them best have no fear. They recognize
the progress made by them in the last ten years. Too many of them have become followers of
the Prince of Peace. These ten years of splendid school training have given us a new type of
young men and women, who have more of home love and who are beginning to think for themselves.
The majority are no longer roused to action by the harangue of a petty chief. The day of the
chief is rapidly passing away. The thinker and not the talker is becoming the leader.

There must be convincing proof of a good cause and of beneficial results before another Indian
war is undertaken under the most favorable circumstances. In territory there is nothing to
be gained. They cling tenaciously to what they have, but they are not grasping for more, for
they realize that their vast hunting grounds have been lost to them forever. The young men
and women in going half across the continent to Carlisle and Hampton, being educated there
and in summer homes in the East, come back impressed with the largeness of the country, the
prosperity and vast numerical superiority of the people. They care not to war against so strong
a foe.

There is an uprising of the Indians, however, which is being too slowly recognized. They are
slowly but surely rising above superstition and ignorance, yes, even above indolence. The old
roving, restless, tramp-like spirit has not wholly disappeared. Some are still living only
a stomach level life, with apparently no thought of head or heart. The old Indian life is self-centered,
hence selfish, ever gathering to itself, never giving out, hence stagnant, non-progressive.

Religion has given the life a new center and indefinite breadth. The Fatherhood of God and
the brotherhood of man are truths which once accepted must change the whole life, and he who
teaches them to an Indian becomes a friend and not an enemy, and becomes loved for what he
brings and not hated for what he has taken away. The Indian and the white man have gone into
partnership in building churches. The Indian has been giving liberally to missions outside
of his own little land.

The progress in educational work has been marked in the last decade. Today every healthy boy
and girl over six years of age is supposed to be in school. More than half of these are for
ten months of every year in a boarding school, well cared for, well fed, well instructed. To
me one of the greatest evidences of progress is that so many of them uncomplainingly--some
eagerly--part with their young children during these many months. The large majority of the
parents have never attended school a day in their lives, yet they make this large sacrifice
for the child's good. Ten years ago there was a dance house in nearly every village, and the
senseless gyrations were in progress every week. The larger portion of the two weeks' rations
was given to the dancer's feast, and the half fed children were the sufferers. Today there
is not a dance house for the whole 90 miles along Grand River.

Ten years ago the first Indian returning with his bi-weekly rations would invite his neighbors
as they came home to help him eat in one day, often in one meal, all this food. For the remainder
of the two weeks the family would be driven to live upon other feasts, or to the fields for
the wild turnip, the few berries or the plum. If four or more feasts were called daily, the
feasts gave way to famine before the coming ration day. Often a week of feasting, then a week
of famine, became the rule. This state of things is becoming more and more a thing of the past.
Hospitality is as marked, but is not carried to starvation extremes. Recently passing some
trees in which twelve or more years ago seven bodies were placed, and contrasting this with
the last funeral I attended, impressed upon me progress in another line.

Ten years ago last Jan. 12, a day made memorable by the great blizzard which swept over our
land with death and destruction, in the early morning, long before daylight, I was aroused
from slumber by a knock at the door of our little log house on Oak Creek. One stops to think
twice before he jumps out of a warm bed when the temperature is out of sight below zero in
the room, the fire has gone out and a blizzard is howling outside. The rapping at the door
was continued till I opened it. A rope was placed in my hand in which were two knots. They
showed the length and width of a coffin the man wished to make, and for which he wanted lumber.
I had only an old packing-case to give him. At daylight, breakfastless, I went over to the
tent and helped him make a coffin from the case, a soap box and a small stable door. It was
a crude and weak affair. Ignorant of the language, I could only read words of comfort from
the Word of God and try to sing two Indian hymns. Only a few of us stood about the grave, which
the husband and myself had dug.

In the coffin had been placed dry crusts of bread, waste pieces of meat, a rusty knife, fork
and spoon. In the grave were first placed some thick comfortables and a filthy pillow, on which
the coffin, warmly wrapped, was placed. Then over the mouth of the grave was laid the broken
tent poles, the tent covering folded and laid over, then a great mound of earth. At the grave
everything the family had was given away. And this was only ten years ago. But how great an
improvement on the custom of laying the body on the top of a high hill, or in the branches
of a tree, or even leaving the top of the coffin even with the surface of the ground, which
has been done away with only in the last twelve years.

I have described one of the first funerals in the Indian country that I remember. How different
the funeral of one of our most faithful women, Mrs. Mary Gilbert, who was buried from our crowded
Grand River Chapel April 17th. She had been a great sufferer for years, yet patiently, uncomplainingly,
bearing it all. Though in her last sickness there was no hope of recovery, the most popular
medicine man was not sent for. The suffering woman was not put out in a tent to die. Gratefully
did she receive the tender nursing of the white lady missionary and the skillful school physician.
Tenderly was she cared for to the last in a comfortable bed, in a clean, tidy house. The body
was not hurried with unseemly haste to the burial. Through the darkness of night a messenger
rode 30 miles to have the agency carpenter make a coffin, neatly cover it with black cloth
and white metal trimmings. Through the darkness of another night was it carried back. The one
service of the Sabbath day was the funeral service. Crowds gathered at the house at an early
hour. The long procession of wagons was nearly two hours in reaching the chapel. Beautiful
and simple was the service, and the closing words of the sorrowing husband will long be remembered,
as he spoke of his wife's noble work and trusting faith in the Master. Through the parted lines
of the 80 school children was borne the casket, followed by the parents of these children and
others to the number of over 200, most of whom in the last eight years have found Christ as
an ever-present Saviour, and have learned to know Him as "the resurrection and the life." In
this belief they gathered about this grave, and from it they went to their homes to live re-consecrated
lives.

I have but hinted at progress in these illustrations from their life. May the churches recognize
this new type of Indian uprising, this progress in many ways, by larger gifts for building
much needed churches, and in sending out new messengers of the Gospel of peace. The Indians
seem ready to do their share, are we ready to do ours?

       *       *       *       *       *

The Chinese.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CALIFORNIA CHINESE MISSION.

I am requested to give a "general view of our work in about 1000 words:" and I attempt the
task. The story is elastic; it bears compression. Perhaps it can be brought within the allotted
space. I have often undertaken to tell it in five minutes, premising, however, always that
to do this adequately would require more than five hours.

I. FIGURES THAT WILL NOT LIE. The first half of the present fiscal year ended March 3. The
statistical reports for these six months are the best we have had for more than ten years.
The total number of pupils enrolled in our 19 mission schools thus far is 970: about as many
as in the whole year '95 to '96. The average membership month by month has been about 430,
and the average attendance 234. Every month has been fraught with saving light and love for
some dark souls. I cannot give an exact statement, but I think that nearly 50 conversions have
been reported, making a total, since our work began, of fully 1,600.

II. THE NEW MISSION HOUSE. It has cost us, finished and furnished (so far as it is yet furnished),
fully $19,500. It is a fine building in an admirable location, the best that could be found,
overlooking a pretty square, yet standing just within the border line of San Francisco's Chinatown.
It is four stories high, with a dry basement and a flat roof, and it is utilized on these six
floors. The Noyes Memorial Chapel on the first floor is an attractive place of worship seating
easily 250, and is used on week days for the Central School, which is, doubtless, the largest
Chinese week-day school in our country. Rev. Jee Gam, with his large family, has several rooms
as a sort of parsonage. Other Christian families occupy apartments. Homeless young men rent
some of our best rooms, and use them for social purposes and as a retreat from the wickedness
of almost every other gathering place in Chinatown. Most of these young men were Christians
when they came to occupy these rooms. One among those who were not Christians has already turned
to Christ, the first fruits in this our new garden of the Lord. We owe $13,250 on this building,
of which $2,000 ought to be paid at once.

III. OUR WORK FOR MOTHERS AND CHILDREN is to be distinguished from the Rescue work among the
female slaves bought and sold for the worst of purposes, who constitute a large majority of
all the Chinese women in California. This latter work our Presbyterian and Methodist Missions
have been doing for many years at large expense and with good results. They were prepared to
take care of all who would come to them, and we did not enter into that field, for we never
have used missionary money for the purpose of competition with other denominations, and we
never will. The mothers living in wedlock and their children constitute our field, and wherever
we have missions this is carried on with more or less activity according to the number of families
and the welcomes extended. In Los Angeles, Marysville, San Francisco and Watsonville, there
are visitors giving to this undertaking so much of their time as to make it necessary to assist
in their support. I doubt if any human beings anywhere on earth have more hindrances to overcome,
more lions to face, more superstitions to be laid aside in coming to Christ, than have the
Chinese women. The tyranny of heathen husbands, the scorn of neighbors, the vague dread of
untold calamities which the ghosts of the dead will inflict upon them if not duly worshipped,
the stories told them of children kidnapped, eyes put out, hurtful spells thrown upon people
by foreign devils; all these and other obstacles must be met and overcome. But Christian kindness
will overcome everything if persistently shown, and I believe the time is coming when the harvest
among these Chinese mothers will exceed, in proportion to the numbers within reach of us, any
reaped elsewhere. I would like to go into the details of this comparatively new work but my
limits forbid it.

IV. THE CHINESE POPULATION in America is, I believe, increasing. I cannot prove this, and I
state it only as an impression. The Exclusion Law at its best is a leaky dike, and the tide
washing up against it leaps through and sometimes overflows. How this comes to pass I have
not space to tell, but while I do not believe that all men have their price, I suspect that
some Custom House officials have not always been proof against temptation, and are not now.
And perjury in the view of a non-christian Chinese is a venial offense except when so clumsily
committed as to lead to detection. But, no matter how these new comers get here, once among
us they are fish for our fishing, and when one of them becomes a Christian and tells me he
has been in the country five or six or eight years, I do not feel bound to make him confess
the method of his entrance. He was a heathen then. There is no probability whatever that the
work of our mission will cease for lack of material to work upon, till long after the present
workers have passed to their reward.

V. THE FINANCES. Under this head the tale is soon told. Appropriation from the A. M. A. exhausted.
The last check for this fiscal year from the office in New York came to me on the 1st of March.
The bills for April are provided for, however. As to May, June, July and August, bills, which
if the work were done as it should be, could not even by closest economy, be brought below
$4,000, we wait for the payment of upon God and upon those whom he has made to be the almoners
of His bounty. Our Chinese will probably give about $1,500. Who will give the rest?

W. C. POND.

       *       *       *       *       *

Obituary.

Rev. C. L. Woodworth, D.D., died in Amherst, Mass., May 23, 1898, on the day after the 78th
anniversary of his birth. He was born in Somers, Conn., was graduated at Amherst College in
1845, at East Windsor Theological Institute in 1848, and was ordained to the ministry in the
Second Church in Amherst and became its pastor Nov. 7, 1849. He remained there till September
2, 1863 when he resigned to become chaplain to the Twenty-seventh Massachusetts Regiment. In
this service he remained nearly a year, and in 1865 was appointed general agent of the American
Missionary Association for Massachusetts, and in 1866 its District Secretary for New England,
with office in Boston, which position he occupied till 1888. In June, 1893, he returned to
his pastorate in Amherst where he labored with much earnestness till his death.

Augusta, Joel Spalding, 5. Baldwin, 2.85, Bangor. Stearns Circle K. D., for S. A., Dorchester
Acad., Ga., 4. Bath, Central, 33.34. Castine, J. W. Dresser, for S. A., Dorchester Acad., Ga.,
5. East Orington, 3.90. Farmington, S., for Meridian, Miss., 22.43. Hampden, First, 5.22. Harpswell
Center, Aprons, for Blowing Rock, N. C. Limington, C., 9.15; C. E., 2. Little Deer Isle. Silas
Hardy, for Building, Tougaloo U., 1. Machias, Clothing, Freight, 2, for Blowing Rock, N. C.
Pownal, "Friends," for Marion, Ala., 25, Scarborough, S., 4.75. Skowhegan, L. S., Clothing,
Freight 2.29. for Blowing Rock, N. C. South Freeport, Miss Fannie E. Soule, for S. A., A. G.
Sch., Moorhead, Miss., 45. South Brewer, 3.60. Waterford, Miss H. C. Douglas, for Freight,
2; "Memorial of a deceased Friend," 50 cts. Waterville, C. E., for S. A. Dorchester Acad.,
Ga., 5. West Brooksville, C., 2.50; S., 75 cts.; C. E., 75 cts. West Newfield, 3. Windham,
C., by Miss S. S. Varney, for Mobile, Ala., 18. Portland Second Parish, S., Miss Conley's Class,
for Mountain Work, 10.

NEW HAMPSHIRE, $527.15--of which from Estate, $70.00.

