SIR,--For a number of years I have been experimenting in wireless telephony with my installation
on the heights of Lavender Hill. On several occasions recently I have been puzzled by mysterious
ringings of the bell attached to the instrument, which have obviously been set up by long-distance
waves. On taking up the receiver, however, I have been unable to make out any coherent message,
but only a succession of irregular squeaks, although once I distinctly, heard a word which
I can only transcribe as "Gurroo." I have no doubt in my own mind that one of the more advanced
planets is trying to get in touch with us by means of wireless telephony, and that once we
have deciphered the code we shall be able to converse freely with its inhabitants. I myself
incline to the belief that these rings emanate from Saturn, which, in spite of its great distance
from the earth, is just as likely to wish to communicate with us as any other planet.

Yours faithfully,

DIOGENES DOTTLE, F.R.S.

II.

Mr. Dottle's remarkable letter, published in our issue of yesterday, suggesting that inhabitants
of Saturn have been endeavouring to communicate with the earth by means of wireless telephony,
has created profound excitement in scientific and other circles. To a representative of The
Daily Mandate a number of well-known men expressed their views on the matter, which will undoubtedly
stimulate further investigation into the momentous possibilities of this epoch-making revelation.
The opinions advanced, which are, on the whole, highly favourable to Mr. Dottle's theory, are
as follows:--

Sir Potiphar Shucks, the famous astronomer: "The possibility that Saturn is inhabited is one
that, in the absence of incontrovertible evidence either way, should not lightly be set aside.
Assuming that it is inhabited, that its people are skilled in the use of wireless telephony
and that it is possible to set up waves of sufficient intensity to travel all the way from
Saturn to us, I see no reason why communications of the nature suggested by Mr. Dottle should
not at some future date become an accomplished fact."

Mr. Artesian Pitts, the well-known imaginative historian: "I have long held the belief that
Saturn is inhabited by a type of being possessing a cylinder-like body composed of an unresisting
pulp, a high dome-shaped head filled with gas, and long tentacles, bristling with electricity,
through which all sensations are emitted and received. These tentacles would act as an ideal
telephonic apparatus, so that there is every likelihood of Mr. Dottle's having actually received
a message from Saturn. I take 'Gurroo' to be Saturnian for 'Hello.'"

Signor Tromboni, the pioneer of wireless telephony: "We are making arrangements to test Mr.
Dottle's interesting theory, and for this purpose are erecting a special installation on the
top of Mt. Kilimanjaro, which is several thousand feet higher than Lavender Hill. At our own
stations we have frequently noticed mysterious ringings, which we have hitherto ascribed to
carelessness on the part of operators; but Mr. Dottle's letter opens up a new world of possibilities.
The Daily Mandate is to be congratulated on the prominence it has given to the subject, which
has already had the effect of sending Tromboni shares up several points."

Mr. G. Shawburn: "It is an insult to Creation to assume that ours is the only populated planet.
Of course Saturn is inhabited, but, unlike our own world, by people of intelligence. In the
matter of mental advancement Saturn can make rings round the earth. All the same I don't for
one moment suppose that Mr. Dottle knows what he's talking about."

The POSTMASTER-GENERAL: "Nothing is known in the Department under my control of telephone calls
having been received from Saturn or the neighbourhood. I do not propose for the present to
take any steps in the matter."

The LORD MAYOR: "Saturn is a long way off."

III.

(Extract from leading article.)

"... Again we ask, 'What is the Government doing?' For several days now our columns have been
ringing with the world-wide acclamation of this stupendous discovery, beside the potentialities
of which the wildest efforts of imaginative literature are reduced to pallid and uninspired
commonplaces. Even so cautious a scientist as Sir Potiphar Shucks has declared that the idea
of Saturn being inhabited is one that 'should not lightly be set aside,' and has announced
his conviction that under favourable conditions communication with that planet should in the
near future become 'an accomplished fact.' Other eminent leaders of thought and action, including
Signor Tromboni, are even more enthusiastic in their reception of the great theory first given
to the world by Mr. Diogenes Dottle in a letter to The Daily Mandate. But the POSTMASTER-GENERAL
is content to treat the question with the airy scepticism and obstructive complacency that
have rendered the London Telephone service a byword of inefficiency, and refuses even to make
a grant in aid of the work of investigation.

"In these circumstances the proprietors of The Daily Mandate have much pleasure in announcing
that they will pay the sum of ten thousand pounds to the first man, woman or child in the British
Empire who can produce evidence of having received an intelligible telephonic message from
Saturn, and a further sum of one hundred thousand pounds to the first person to send a message
to that planet and receive a clear reply. The services of a Board of distinguished experts
are being engaged for the purpose of testing and adjudicating all claims.

"Meanwhile the POSTMASTER-GENERAL must go."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It may safely be said that there are more millionaires to the square
    yard in Bradford than in any other city in the country, not even
    excepting London or New York."--Daily Paper.

The news that Britain has annexed the United States will comfort those who thought it was the
other way about.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The incessant singing of a cricket in a London church compelled the
    preacher to shorten his sermon."--The Children's Newspaper.

We may now expect increased enthusiasm for the "Sunday Cricket" movement.

       *       *       *       *       *

A VERMIN OFFENSIVE.

There was a faint scuffling sound behind the wainscot.

"There it is again," said Araminta.

"Not a doubt of it," I replied, turning pale.

Thrusting on my hat I rushed up the hill to the Town Hall and asked to see the Clerk of the
Borough Council immediately.

"I have reason to suspect," I said in a hoarse low whisper, as soon as I was shown into the
man's presence, "that our premises are in imminent danger of being infested. Counsel me as
to what I should do."

"It is your duty as a good citizen to take such steps as may from time to time be necessary
and reasonably practicable to destroy the vermin," he said in a rather weary and mechanical tone.

"I hope I am not one to take my civic duties lightly," I replied with some hauteur, "but observe
that I merely said I had reason to suspect the imminence of the peril. I should like to know
the legal definition of infestment, if you please. I cannot definitely say that house-breaking
has taken place as yet. I do not know that there has even been petty larceny. There may have
been merely loitering with felonious intent."

"What is the size of your premises?" he inquired.

"It is more a messuage than a premises," I explained. "About twelve feet by ten, I should say--speaking
without the lease."

"And how many vermin do you expect it to be about to harbour?"

"None have actually hove in sight at present," I said reassuringly, "but there is a sound of
one in the offing--in the wainscoting, I mean."

"In a residence of your size I should say that a single mouse would constitute infestation
within the meaning of the Act, so soon as it forces an ingress. It will then be your bounden
duty to demolish it. How about purchasing a trap?"

"You are sure that is better than hiding behind the arras and hitting it over the head with
a pole-axe?" I inquired anxiously, "or proffering it a bowl of poisoned wine?"

"Poison is no longer supplied free," he answered coldly, and I went out.

Very luckily, as I hastened up the hill, I had observed a building with the words, "Job Masters.
Traps for Hire," written upon a wooden board. I went inside and found an elderly man sitting
at a desk in a small office. He looked extremely patient. "Are you Job?" I asked breathlessly.
"I have come to buy a mouse-trap."

Appearances, of course, are quite often deceptive. They were in this case. The elderly man
was very much annoyed. When he had explained matters forcibly to me I went on down the hill
and entered an ironmonger's.

"I wish to buy a trap to catch a mouse," I said to the assistant behind the counter.

"Certainly, Sir. What size?" said the lad politely.

"Small to medium," I replied, rather baffled. "It has only a medium-sized scratch."

He showed me a peculiar apparatus made of wire and wood containing apparently a vestibule,
two reception rooms, staircase and first-floor lobby, with an open window and a diving-board.
Underneath the window was a small swimming tank.

"I don't want a hydropathic exactly," I explained. "I propose to exterminate this rodent, not
to foster longevity in it. How does it work?"

He pointed out that, after examining the various apartments, the animal would be allured by
the fragrance of a small portion of cheese placed above the diving-board; overbalancing, it
would then be projected into the water, where it would infallibly drown. "It is a thoroughly
humane instrument," he assured me, "and used in the best 'omes."

I bought it and went on to a cheese foundry. Araminta was rather scornful of the sanatorium
when I came home with it and set it, loaded and trained, on the dining-room floor; but the
children were delighted. It ranked only a little lower than the pantomime, and if only we could
have secured an outside visitor to it I believe that it would have defeated the Zoo. To visit
it with a sort of wistful hope became the principal treat of the day. But, alas, the mansion
remained untenanted. Sometimes during a lull in conversation we would hear the faint scuffling
again, but after about six days I became convinced, by kneeling down and placing my ear to
the carpet like an Indian, that the noise was even fainter than it had been at first. A terrible
suspicion seized me. I dashed out and rang the bell of the flat next door.

"It is just as I feared," I said to Araminta on returning a few moments later. "We are not
going to be infested after all. The vermin has been sighted in No. 140B."

"We must make the best of it," she said, trying to speak cheerfully, "though it is hard on
the children, poor dears."

"I wasn't thinking of the children," I replied bitterly; "I was thinking of the expense. If
we had been living in a house instead of a flat we could at least have deducted it from the rates."

I sat down and made out a bill as follows to the Clerk of the Borough Council, heading it:--

  On Account of Spurious Infestment.
                                        s.  d.
  To one Mouse Institute and Aquarium   5   6
  "  Cheese                             0   6
  "  Labour at 2/6 per hour             0   7-1/2
                                        ---------
  Total                                 6   7-1/2

The man replied coldly that the householder was responsible for all expenditure incurred in
precautionary measures and that the Council was in no way liable for the costs resulting from
an offensive that failed to materialize. He ended with the rather rude postscript, "What kind
of cheese did you use?"

This was a bit sickening. However, by threatening to lay information against him, I have at
last succeeded in inducing the occupier of 140B to take over the abattoir at a very satisfactory
valuation. It was between that and buying his mouse.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWO NIGHTMARES.

    [Dreamed after reading in a daily paper that "any style of dress that
    lessens one's self-confidence should be tabooed" (sic).]

  I travelled from the Sussex hills
    With confidence divine,
  Full of the conscious power that thrills
    My heart when life is mine,
  And strode to Lady Fancy Frills
    With whom I was to dine.

  Her guests had come from Clubs and Courts
    And Halls of wealthy Jews;
  As they surveyed my running shorts
    I felt my courage ooze,
  While conscious power, grown out of sorts,
    Leaked through my canvas shoes.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Then I re-travelled South by West
    Inflated with a joy
  Which in the suit I called my best
    No buffet could destroy;
  I may remark I'd come full-dressed
    From lunch at the Savoy.

  But when the hills began to shout
    I coloured to the roots,
  And when the valleys cried, "Get out!"
    To the last word in suits,
  My joy, displaced by sudden doubt,
    Leaked through my spatted boots.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the mysterious Marconigrams:--

    "They may be the effort of sentiment beings in some neighbouring planet
    to communicate with us."--Evening Paper.

Can we have broken in on a conversation between Venus and Mars?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A CONFLICT OF EMOTIONS.

(With the British Army in France.)

"I've seen rivetters at New York pie-foundries and stew-specialists on North Sea trawlers,"
said Percival severely, "but I never realised how monotonous feeding could be till I got into
a Mess controlled by Binnie."

Binnie puffed his pipe severely, being of the tough fibre which enables Mess Presidents to
endure. Frederick, who had been silent, rose from his seat, heaved a distressing sigh and left
the room.

"There's the moral that adorns the tale, you--you public danger!" continued Percival, indicating
Frederick's retreating figure. "Look to what a condition that once bright youth has been brought
by your endless stews and curries."

"Not a bit of it," answered Binnie lightly. "Frederico could eat patent breakfast food and
toasted doormats without taxing his digestion. His complaint is the tender passion. I recognise
the symptoms."

"It looks like an acute attack, anyhow," said Percival, rising, "and prompt counter-irritants
are indicated. But I'll confirm your diagnosis first."

Inside Frederick's quarters the sound of regular and sustained sighing suggested that the sufferer
was in the throes of a spasm of melancholy. Percival entered and narrowly escaped being drawn
into the vortex of a particularly powerful inspiration.

"Freddy, old pard," he said kindly, "why so triste? If the trouble's financial, my cheque-book
is unreservedly at your service. Havin' no balance at the bank I've no use for it myself."

"It's not that--at least not worse than usual," groaned Frederick.

"Then tell me all about it."

"It's a long story," commenced Frederick.

"Let me off with a synopsis," interrupted Percival.

"Once upon a time," continued Frederick, "there was a big war, which made quite a stir in the
daily papers and was a common subject of discussion in the clubs. There were many casualties,
amongst them being a blithe young laddy who came down to the Base with a fractured maxilla
caused by nibbling an M. and V. ration without previously removing the outside tin--or something
of the sort. He was sent to hospital and devotedly tended by a Sister of exquisite beauty--such
a figure and such hair! It wasn't exactly auburn and not exactly burnished bronze--"

"And it wasn't pale puce and it wasn't ultramarine," broke in Percival impatiently. "Tell me
what it was, not what it wasn't."

"I can't. It baffled description. Well, they drifted apart; but often afterwards, when that
young laddy was studying his Manual of Military Law in his lonely dug-out, the image of Sister
Carruthers glowed on the printed page. But I never met her again until the other day, when
I was having a gentle toddle round Quelquepart and saw her gliding along the quay. Something
gripped me by the heart; I took my courage in both hands and spoke to her.

"'Don't you remember me, Sister?' I said. 'It was you who nursed me in No. 99 General.'

"She looked at me coldly.

"'As you are the third young officer who has adopted a similar method of introduction this
afternoon,' she said, 'you must forgive me if I ask for some confirmation.'

"'Surely you haven't forgotten?' I cried. 'You drew me a sweet little design in dots and dashes
to hang over my bed. When I was evacuated to England I wanted to thank you, to ask if we might
meet again, but you thrust a clinical thermometer between my teeth and told me not to speak
till you gave me permission. Then you left me, and I was whisked away to the boat clinging
grimly to the thermometer, inarticulate and heartbroken.'

"'And I presume your object in speaking to me to-day is to return the thermometer?' she said
primly.

"That's where I took the full count," continued Frederick, sadly. "If I could have produced
any old thing in the thermometer line my bona fides would have been established an' I could
have gone ahead like cotton-mill shares. Instead of which, she'd said Good-day and gone while
I was thinkin' out explanations. Since that time I've been parading Quelquepart simply bristling
with thermometers, but I've never met her again."

"The old Army fault of unpreparedness," remarked Percival. "You ought to go to hospital."

"Don't be juvenile! What have hospitals to do with heartache?"

"Everything, if you go to the right one--the one where your ministering angel ministrates,
for instance."

"Percival, old ace," said Frederick, with admiration, "you'll rank among the world's great
thinkers yet. Turn on the current again and tell me what is my complaint."

"Digestive trouble," said Percival promptly. "There's already been rumours about, and you'll
be doing a public service by going to dock with dyspepsia. Binnie will be so stricken by remorse
that he'll at once start providing the Mess with decent food."

"Then for your sakes I'll rehearse the symptoms. But my curse will be on your head if I get
to the wrong hospital."

It was unfortunate that the M.O. was in an unsympathetic mood next morning. He thumped Frederick
on the lower chest and pooh-poohed the idea of hospital. "All you want is a few of these tablets,"
he said, "and you'll be fit as nails in a day or two."

Frederick crawled away dispiritedly to confide in Percival. That sapient youth counselled perseverance.

"You must go right off your feed," he said. "Let the doc. see you feebly pecking and he'll
soon get alarmed. In the meantime I'm off to give Binnie critical accounts of your appetite
and send him to market right away."

Only a burning passion and stealthy bars of chocolate could have sustained Frederick through
the next few days. To sit down to breakfast with a healthy appetite and refuse his egg and
rasher put the biggest possible strain on his constancy. His task was made doubly difficult
by the scheming of Percival, who was constantly inciting Binnie to procure fresh delicacies.

"You've crocked poor Freddy," he said; "and there will be others going the same way if you
don't improve the messing. Now I saw some nice plump chickens to-day in the...."

Thus harried, that evening Binnie provided a dinner that almost reduced Frederick to breaking-point.
Only the fact that the M.O. was sitting opposite gave him strength to refuse the soup and fish,
to trifle with the chicken and turn wearily from the sweet. As the savoury was being served
he caught a scrap of conversation across the table.

"... to the boat to see her off for demob.," the M.O. was saying to the Padre. "Jolly nice
girl--Jim Carruthers' daughter, you know."

Frederick pricked up his ears.

"I remember," said the Padre. "She used to be at 99 General."

There was no doubt who was the girl referred to. Frederick sat back in his chair with a heavy
sense of disappointment and loss. He felt acutely sorry for himself. But presently above the
pain in his heart there arose a stronger and more compelling feeling.

"Corporal," he said, "I think after all I'll try one of those crab patties. Or you might tell
the waiter to bring in two."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PICTURES.

  "Some likes picturs o' women" (said Bill) "an' some likes 'orses best,"
  As he fitted a pair of fancy shackles on to his old sea-chest;
  "But I likes picturs o' ships" (said he), "an' you can keep the rest.

  "An' if I was a ruddy millionaire with dollars to burn that way,
  Instead of a dead-broke sailorman as never saves his pay,
  I'd go to some big paintin' guy, an' this is what I'd say:--

  "'Paint me The Cutty Sark' (I'd say) 'or the old Thermopylæ,
  Or The Star of Peace as I sailed in once in my young days at sea,
  Shipshape an' Blackwall fashion too, as a clipper ought to be.

  "'An' you might do 'er outward bound, with a sky full o' clouds,
  An' the tug just droppin' astern an' gulls flyin' in crowds,
  An' the decks shiny-wet with rain an' the wind shakin' the shrouds.

  "'Or else racin' up-Channel with a sou'-wester blowin',
  Stuns'ls set aloft and alow an' a hoist o' flags showin',
  An' a white bone between her teeth, so's you can see she's goin'.

  "'Or you might do 'er off Cape Stiff in the 'igh latitudes yonder,
  With her main-deck a smother of white an' her lee-rail dipping under,
  And the big greybeards drivin' by an' breakin' aboard like thunder.

  "'Or I'd like old Tuskar somewhere around--or Sydney 'eads, maybe,
  Or Bar Light, or the Tail o' the Bank, or a glimp o' Circular Quay,
  Or a junk or two, if she's tradin' East, to show it's the China Sea.

  "'Nor I don't want no dabs o' paint as you can't tell what they are,
  Whether they're shadders or fellers' faces or blocks or blobs o' tar,
  But I want gear as looks like gear an' a spar that's like a spar.

  "'An' I don't care if it's North or South, the Trades or the China Sea,
  Shortened down or everythin' set, close-hauled or runnin' free;
  You paint me a ship as is like a ship an' that'll do for me.'"

  C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

EGYPTIAN DARKNESS.

    "Several letters have appeared in the native Press in some of which
    they ask Minindirect way, as they have done, but in a indirect way they
    have done but in a clear clear manner which cannot be interpreted two
    ways."--Egyptian Gazette.

Or, so far as we are concerned, even one way.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BIG-GAME CURE.

    [In common with everything else, wild animals have risen considerably
    in price.]

