"Back?" Half dazed, he stared at me through the quivering lids of his peculiar eyes. "What
do you mean?"

"I mean that you're not going back to your own era. You have come to us, uninvited, and--you're
going to stay here."

"No!" he shouted, and struggled so desperately to free himself that I was hard put to it to
hold him, without tightening my grip sufficiently to dislocate his shoulders. "You wouldn't
do that! I must return; I must prove to them--"

"That's exactly what must not happen, and what shall not happen," I interrupted. "And what
will not happen. You are in a strange predicament, Harbauer; it is already written that you
do not return. Can't you see that, man? If it were to be that you left this age and returned
to your own, you would make known your discovery. History would record it. And history does
not record it. You are struggling, not against me, but against--against a fate that has been
sealed all these centuries."

       *       *       *       *       *

When I had finished, he stared at me as though hypnotized, motionless and limp in my grasp.
Then, suddenly, he began to shake and I saw such depths of terror and horror in his eyes as
I hope never to see again.

Mechanically, he glanced down at his watch, lifting his wrist into his line of vision as slowly
and ponderously as though it bore a great weight.

"Two ... two minutes," he whispered huskily. "Then the automatic switch will close, back in
my laboratory. If I am not standing where ... where you found me ... between the disc and the
grid of my time machine, where the reversed energy can reach me, to ... to take me back ... God!"

He sagged in my arms and dropped to his knees, sobbing.

"And yet ... what you say is true. It is already written that I did not return." His sobs cut
harshly through the silence of the room. Pitying his despair, I reached down to give him a
sympathetic pat on the shoulder. It is a terrible thing to see a man break down as Harbauer
had done.

As he felt my grip on him relax, he suddenly shot his fist into the pit of my stomach, and
leaped to his feet. Groaning, I doubled up, weak and nerveless, for the instant, from the vicious,
unexpected blow.

"Ah!" shrieked Harbauer. "You soft-hearted fool!" He struck me in the face, sending me crashing
to the floor, and snatched up his pistol.

"I'm going, now," he shouted. "Going! What do I care for your records and your histories? They
are not yet written; if they were I'd change them." He bent over me and snatched from my hand
the ring of keys, one of which I had used to unlock the door of the navigating room. I tried
to grip him around the legs, but he tore himself loose, laughing insanely in a high-pitched,
cackling sound that seemed hardly human.

"Farewell!" he called mockingly from the doorway. Then the door slammed, and as I staggered
to my feet, I heard the lock click.

       *       *       *       *       *

I must have acted then by instinct or inspiration. There was no time to think. It would take
him not more than three or four seconds to make his way to the exit, stroll by the guard to
the spot where we had found him, and--disappear. By the time I could arouse the crew, and have
my orders executed, his time would be up, and--unless the whole affair were some terrible nightmare--he
would go hurtling back through time to his own era, armed with a devastating knowledge.

There was only one possible means of preventing his escape in time. I ran across the room to
the emergency operating controls, cut in the atomic generators with one hand and pulled the
Vertical-Ascent lever to Full Power.

There was a sudden shriek of air, and my legs almost thrust themselves through my body. Quickly,
I pushed the lever back until, with my eye on the altimeter, I held the Ertak at her attained
height--something over a mile, as I recall it. Then I pressed the General Attention signal,
and snatched up the microphone.

Less than a minute later Correy and Hendricks, fellow officers, were in the room and besieging
me with solicitous questions.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had been my idea, of course, to keep Harbauer from leaving the ship, but it was not so destined.

Shiro, the sentry on duty outside the Ertak, was the only witness to Harbauer's fate.

"I was walking my post, sir," he reported, "watching the sun come up, when suddenly I heard
the sound of running feet inside the ship. I turned towards the entrance and drew my pistol,
to be in readiness. I saw the stranger we had taken into the ship appear at the exit, which,
as you know, was open.

"Just as I opened my mouth to command him to halt, the Ertak shot up from the ground at terrific
speed. The stranger had been about to leap upon me; indeed, he had discharged some sort of
weapon at me, for I heard a crash of sound, and a missile of some kind, as you know, passed
through my left arm.

"As the ship left the ground, he tried to draw back, but he was off balance, and the inertia
of his body momentarily incapacitated him, I think. He slipped, clutched at the gangway across
the threads which seal the exit, and then, at a height I estimate to be around five hundred
feet, he fell. The Ertak shot on up until it was lost to sight, and the stranger crashed to
the ground a few feet from where I was standing--on almost exactly the spot where we first
saw him, sir.

       *       *       *       *       *

"And now, sir, comes the part I guess you'll find hard to believe. When he struck the ground,
he was smashed flat; he died instantly. I started to run toward him, and then--and then I stopped.
My eyes had not left the spot for a moment, sir, but he--his body, that is--suddenly disappeared.
That's the truth, sir, for I saw it with my own eyes. There wasn't a sign of him left."

"I see," I replied. I believe that I did. We had gone straight up, and his body, by no great
coincidence, had fallen upon the spot close to the exit of the Ertak where we had first found
him. And his machine, in operation, had brought him, or rather, his mangled body, back to his
own age. "You have not mentioned this affair to anyone, Shiro?"

"No, sir. It wasn't anything you'd be likely to tell: nobody would believe you. I went at once
to have my arm attended to, and then reported here according to orders."

"Very good, Shiro. Keep the entire affair to yourself. I will make all the necessary reports.
That is an order--understand?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then that will be all. Take good care of your arm."

He saluted with his good hand and left me.

       *       *       *       *       *

Later in the day I wrote in the log-book of the Ertak the report I mentioned at the beginning
of this tale:

     "Just before departure, discovered stowaway, apparently
      demented, and ejected him."

That was a perfectly truthful statement, and it served its purpose. I have given the whole
story in detail just to prove what I have so often contended: that these owlish laboratory
men whom this age reveres so much are not nearly so wise and omnipotent as they think they are.

I am quite sure that they would have discredited, or attempted to discredit, my story, had
I told it at the time. They would have resented the idea that someone so much ahead of them
had discovered a principle that still baffles this age of ours, and I would have had no evidence
to present.

Perhaps even now the story will be discredited; if so, I do not care. I am much too old, and
too near the portals of that impenetrable mystery, in the shadow of which I have stood so many
times, to concern myself with what others may think or say.

I know that what I have related here is the truth, and in my mind I have a vivid and rather
pitiful picture of a mangled body, bloody and alone, in the barn-like structure the ancient
paper had described; a body, broken and motionless, lying athwart the striated metal disc,
like a sacrificial victim--a victim and a sacrifice of science.

There have been many such. He had only a hazy memory of the catastrophe, and recalled that
when she had struck and the alarm had gone rocketing through the great passenger boat--though
no alarm was really necessary because she went to pieces so fast--that he had leaped far over
the rail and swam straight out, fast, in order to escape being dragged down by the suction
of the sinking liner.

The screaming of frightened women and children would ring in his ears until the day the grave
closed over him--screaming that was made all the more terrible by the crashing roar of the
raging black seas which came out of the darkness to make the affair all the more hideous, and
to bear down beneath them into the sea the feeble struggling ones who had no chance for their
lives. Lifeboats had been smashed in their davits.

Bentley swam straight away after he was satisfied at last that he could do nothing more. He
had helped men and women reach bits of wreckage until he could scarcely any longer keep his
wearied arms to the task of keeping his own head above water. He knew even as he helped the
white-faced ones that few of them would ever live through it, but he was doing the best he
knew--a man's job.

When absolutely sure that he could do nothing further, when he could no longer hear cries of
distress, or discover struggling forms in the sea which he might aid, he had turned his back
on the graveyard of the Bengal Queen and had struck for shore. He remembered the direction,
for before sunset that evening, in company with several ship's under officers, he had studied
the navigation charts upon which each day's run of the Bengal Queen was shown. Ahead of him
now was the coast of Africa, though what part of it he knew but in the haziest way. He might
not guess within a hundred miles.

       *       *       *       *       *

One thing only he remembered exactly. The second officer had said, apropos of nothing in particular:

"This wouldn't be a happy place to be shipwrecked. This section of the coast is a regular hangout
of the great anthropoid apes. You know, those babies that can pick a man apart as a man would
pluck the legs off a fly."

Bentley had merely grinned. The second officer's remarks had sounded to him as though the fellow
had been reading more than his fair share of lurid fiction of the South African jungles.

However, apes or no apes, the shore would look good to Lee Bentley now. And he fully intended
making it. He knew he could swim for hours if it became necessary, and he refused to think
of the possibility of sharks. If one got him, well, that was one of the chances one had to
take when one was shipwrecked against one's will.

So he alternately swam toward where he expected to find land, and floated on his back to rest.

"A swell ending to a great life, if I don't make it," he told himself. "I wonder how the old
man will take it when the world reads that the Bengal Queen went down with all on board? He'll
be relieved, maybe, for he was about ready to wash his hands of me if I can read signs at all."

       *       *       *       *       *

It might be said that Bentley was his own worst critic, for he really was not a bad sort of
a fellow. He was a good American, over-educated perhaps, with a yen to delve into forbidden
places usually avoided by his own kind, and of digging into books which were better left with
the pages unturned. There were strange ruins in Africa, he knew. He had gathered a weird fund
of information from such books as he could unearth relative to ancient ruins and vanished races,
to the lurid accounts of strange deaths of the various scientists who had taken active part
in the opening of the tomb of Tutankhamen.

There were queer things in the heart of darkest Africa, and such things intrigued him. He could
take whatever chances with his life he saw fit, for his only relative was a father, and he
had never attached himself to any woman nor permitted any woman to attach herself to him--because
he could never be sure that her interest might not primarily be in his bank account.

"If, as, and when," he told himself as he rode the waves through the night, "I reach the coast
I'll be tossed into black Africa in a way I was not expecting. Anyway, if I live through, I
can at least go about my work without the governor interfering. I only hope it won't be hard
on the old fellow. He isn't a bad egg at all, and I guess I have given him plenty to think
about and worry over."

He turned on his stomach again and struck out. He had managed to rid himself of all of his
clothing except his underwear. They had only weighed him down, and he recalled, with a wry
grin, that Africa as a whole went in but little for the latest in men's sport wear.

       *       *       *       *       *

It must have been a good hour since he had lost the Bengal Queen back there in the raging deep,
that he heard the faint call through the murk.

"Help, for God's sake!"

He listened for a repetition of the call, minded to believe that his ears had tricked him.
He fancied it had been a woman's voice, but no woman could have lived so long in those raging
seas, in which any moment Bentley himself expected to be overwhelmed. For himself he regarded
death more or less philosophically, but a woman out there, crying for help, was a different
matter entirely. It tore at his heartstrings, mostly because he realized his inability to be
of material assistance.

He was sure that he had been mistaken about the cry, when it came again.

"For God's sake, help!"

It came from his left and this time it was unmistakable, piteous and unnerving. Lee Bentley
had the horrible fear that he would never reach her in time to help--though what help he could
give, when he could barely manage to keep himself afloat, he could not forsee.

He was swimming down the side of a monster wave. He could see something white in the trough,
and he struggled manfully to make headway, while the angry waters tossed him about like a bit
of cork and seemed bent on defeating his most furious efforts. He saw the bit of white ride
high on the next wave, pass over it and vanish. He dived straight through the wave as it towered
over him. He came up, gasping, his hands all but clutching at a pair of hands that reached
out of the waters and grasped with a last desperate effort at the sky.

Ahead of the hands was a broken piece of oar. Those hands had just despairingly relinquished
their grip on the one chance of safety, if any chance there could possibly be in that mad midnight
waste.

He pulled on the wrists and a white face came to view. Wild, staring eyes looked into his.
Black hair flowed back from a face whose lips were blue and thin.

"Take it easy," he counseled. "Turn on your back and rest while I see if I can get back your
life-boat."

       *       *       *       *       *

He captured the oar, and found it practically useless to sustain any appreciable weight, but
he clung to it because it was at least better than nothing at all. It had held the girl afloat
for over an hour and might be made to serve again somehow. With his left hand under the woman's
head and his right grasping the oar he turned on his back to regain his breath. He was deep
in the water because the woman was now almost on top of him; but her face was above water.
He knew instinctively that she had fainted, and he was a little glad. If she were the usual
hysterical woman her fighting would drown them both. As a dead weight she was easier to handle.

They drifted on, and hope began to mount high in the heart of Lee Bentley--the hope that they
might yet reach land. When, hours later, he could hear the roaring of breakers he was sure
of it--if the breakers could be passed in safety. After that their fate was in the lap of the gods.

The girl too must have heard, for she turned at last in Bentley's arms and began to swim for
herself. She was a strong swimmer and the period during which she had been out of things had
revived her amazingly. She even managed a smile as she swam beside Bentley into the creamy
breakers behind which they could make out the blackness of shore.

They were so close together that at times their hands touched as they swam, and could make
themselves heard by dint of shouting, though they both husbanded their strength and their breathing
for swimming.

"I'm not dressed for company," he told her. "I left my tuxedo aboard the Bengal Queen!"

It was then that her lips twisted into a smile.

"I wouldn't even allow my maid into my stateroom if I were dressed as I am at the moment,"
she answered strongly, "but we're both grown up I think, and there are times when conventions
go by the board. We'll pretend it doesn't matter!"

Then mutually helping each other they fought through the breakers into the calmer water behind,
and managed at last to stand in water hip deep, with the undertow dragging at their limbs.
They looked at each other and clasped hands without a word. They strode to the sandy beach
beyond which the jungle reached away to some invisible horizon, and continued on until they
were at last beyond the reach of the waves.

       *       *       *       *       *

They did not look at each other again, though Bentley did notice that her garb was as scanty
almost as his own, consisting mostly of a slip which the water had pasted fast against her
flesh. Beyond noting that she seemed to be young, Bentley did not intrude. Nor did he think
of the future. It was enough for the moment that they had escaped the might of angry Neptune,
god of the seas.

They dropped to the sands side by side, and the sands were warm. That the jungle behind them
might be alive with wild beasts they did not pause to consider. Bentley had gazed at the jungle
a moment before dropping down.

He had noticed but one thing--a moving light somewhere among the tangled mass, a light as of
a monster firefly erratically darting through the deeper gloom.

The girl--he had noted she was as much girl as woman--dropped to the sand and stretched herself
out. Bentley looked about him for a moment, just now realizing what he had been through. Then
he dropped down beside the girl, and put one arm over her protectively, an instinctive movement.
The two were alone in an alien world, and even this slight contact gave Bentley a feeling of
companionship he found at the time peculiarly appealing.

The girl was in a drugged sort of sleep, but she stirred at the touch of his arm, and her hand
came up so that her fingertips touched his cheek.

He slept heavily, while outside on the raging deep the storm swept on along the coast, bearing
with it the secret of the rest of those who only last night had looked forward to a pleasant
voyage aboard the Bengal Queen.

The last thought in Bentley's mind was of that flickering light he had seen. It was not important,
but memory of it clung, and followed him into his sleep with his dreams--in which he seemed
to be following a darting, erratic light through a jungle without end.

He wakened with the sun burning his face and torso, and turned on his stomach with a groan.
The heat ate into his back unbearably and he finally sat up, rubbed his eyes and stared out
to sea. Then it all came back and he looked about him for the girl. She had disappeared.

He rose to his feet and shouted.

An answering cry came back to him, and after a moment the girl appeared around a bend in a
shoreline where she had been masked by a wall of the jungle and came toward him. She was carrying
something in her hands. When she stood at last before him he noted that she carried a bundle
of cloth that was dripping wet.

"We need something to cover us," she said simply. "I was tempted to garb myself, but I did
not wish to seem like a simpering prudish female, which I'm not at all. So I brought my findings
here so that we could get together and fix up something to protect us from the sun."

"You're a sensible woman," said Bentley. "I've never understood why people should be so sensitive
about their bodies. Mine isn't bad and yours, if you'll pardon me, is superb. That's not a
compliment, just a statement of fact--which will help us to understand each other better. I've
a hunch we're going to be some time in each other's company and we may as well know things
about each other. My name's Lee Bentley."

"Mine is Ellen Estabrook."

Solemnly they shook hands. And their hands clung convulsively, for as though their handshake
had been a signal there came a strange sound from the jungle behind them.

A burst of laughter that was plainly human--and another sound which caused the short hair at
the base of Bentley's skull to rise, shift oddly, and settle back again.

The sound was like the beating of a skin-tight drumhead by the fists of a jungle savage. But
if such it was the drum was a mighty drum, and the savage was a giant, for the sound went rolling
through the jungle like an invisible tidal wave of sound.

Both the laughter and the drumming ceased as suddenly as they had sounded.

The man and woman laughed jerkily, dropped to the sand side by side and considered the necessity
of clothes.

CHAPTER II

Into the Jungle

They had to smile together at the results achieved with the bedraggled bits of cloth. Bentley
suspected that they had been taken from bodies washed ashore as gruesome reminders of the catastrophe
which had befallen the Bengal Queen, and because he did suspect this he did not ask questions
that might cause Ellen to remember any longer than was necessary. Not that he doubted her courage,
for she had proved that sufficiently; and she had proved that she was sensible, with none of
the notions of the proprieties which would have made any other girl of Bentley's acquaintance
a nuisance.

Their next concern was food, which they must find in the jungle, or from other wreckage cast
ashore from the Bengal Queen. Now, hand in hand--which seemed natural in the circumstances--they
began to walk along the shore, heading into the north by mutual consent.

As they walked Bentley kept pondering on that strange laughter he had heard and on the sound
of savage drumming. The laughter puzzled him. If there were anyone in the jungle back of them,
why had he or they failed to challenge them?

As for the drumming sound--Bentley remembered what the second officer had said about this section
of the coast. It was a bit of jungle inhabited by the great apes in large numbers. So, that
drumming had been a challenge, the man-ape's manner of mocking an enemy by beating himself
on his barrel chest with his huge fists. But that the ape had not been challenging Bentley
and the girl Bentley felt quite sure, as the brute would certainly have shown himself in that case.

They trudged on through the sand, while the sun beat down unmercifully on their uncovered heads.
Ellen Estabrook strode along at Bentley's side without complaint.

       *       *       *       *       *

After perhaps an hour of this unbearable effort, when both felt as though the sun had sucked
them dry of perspiration, they encountered a rough footpath leading into the jungle. The path
suggested human habitation somewhere near. The inhabitants might be hostile natives, even cannibals
perhaps, but in this unknown land they would have to take a chance on that.

