"You saw the schooner, eh?" said the lieutenant, as if he was in the habit of asking sharp
questions and getting quick answers.

"Yes, sir," said the squat seaman, as he hitched up his knife-belt, and wiped his mouth with
the back of his hand, and took off his cap.

"Where?"

"Here away, sir," with a wave of his paw, "just clear of that bluff foreland where the gap
opens with the Blue Mountain."

"How was she rigged?"

"Bare sticks, sir, not much of a bowsprit, and no sail spread. I see her first by the flash
of her sweeps in the rising sun, as she was heading about sou'-sou'-east into the land."

"Two masts, you say?"

"Ay, sir; but I thought as 'ow there was a jigger-like yard a-sticking out over her starn,
though I wasn't sartin."

"So!" said the lieutenant, in a musing tone, and with rather a grave face and compressed lip;
"that will do; thank you, my man." Then placing his hand on the skipper's shoulder, he drew
him to one side, out of ear-shot, and said,

"Captain Blunt, are you much acquainted in these latitudes?"

"Oh yes, sir, me and my old brig are regular traders here, from Bordeaux to Jamaica, and so
home to England."

"No treasure, I presume?" went on the officer, with a smile.

"Why, lieutenant, none to speak of, p'raps; just a handful of dollars and a guinea or two in
the bag for a few sacks of sugar or coffee, or a pipe of rum, or sich like, on my own account."

"Well, my friend, there is probably nothing to fear, but if the breeze springs up, keep as
close to the corvette as you can, and I shall ask the captain to keep a look-out for you during
the night."

"By the way"--the officer continued in a low tone as he moved toward the gangway--"in case
any thing should happen, you had better hoist a lantern at your peak or in the main-rigging--we
have sharp eyes for ugly customers, and one or two of them have been particularly troublesome
of late hereabouts."

Turning for a moment to bid adieu to the fair lady passenger on the quarter-deck, and recovering
his sword after a playful struggle with the youngster, he buckled it around his waist, and,
stepping lightly over the side and into the boat, the oars fell with a single splash, and the
cutter shot rapidly away toward the corvette.

CHAPTER IV.

SUNSET.

    "Light is amid the gloomy canvas spreading,
      The moon is whitening the dusky sails,
    From the thick bank of clouds she masters, shedding
      The softest influence that o'er night prevails.
    Pale is she, like a young queen pale with splendor,
      Haunted with passionate thoughts too fond, too deep;
    The very glory that she wears is tender,
      The very eyes that watch her beauty fain would weep."

Not a breath from the lungs of Æolus. The sun went down like a globe of fire; but just as it
touched the horizon it flattened out into an oval disk, and, sinking behind a dead, slate-colored
cloud, shot up half a dozen broad rose and purple bands, expanding as they mounted heavenward,
and then fading away in pearly-tinted hues in the softening twilight until it mingled in the
light of the half moon nearly at the zenith. There lay the island, too, now all clear again,
with the blue tops of the mountains marked in pure distinct outline, and falling away from
peak to peak on either hand, till the sea flashed up in sluggish creamy foam at the base. The
man-of-war birds came floating in from seaward, high up, like black musquitoes, with their
pointed wings wide spread and heading toward the land, but now with never a quiver to their
silent pinions. A school of porpoises, too, broke water from the opposite direction, and, crossing
and recrossing each other's track, came leaping and puffing over the gentle swells until they
struck the brig's wake, when they wheeled around her bows, dashed off on a swift visit to the
corvette, and then, closing up in watery phalanx, went gamboling, leaping, and breaking water
again to windward. Presently, along the eastern horizon, the banks of clouds, which had been
lying dead and motionless all the sultry day, seemed to be imbued with life, and, separating
in their fleecy masses, mounted up above the sea, and soon spread out, like a lady's fan, in
all directions.

"Ho! ho!" shouted Captain Blunt, clapping his hands, "what said I, Madame Rosalie, when we
saw the sun setting up his lee backstays a while ago? A breeze, eh? Come, Mr. Binks, be wide
awake! We shall be bowling off the knots before the watch is out."

The mate caught the enthusiasm of the skipper, and, jumping up on the break of the deck cabin,
he sang out,

"D'ye hear there, lads? give us a good pull of the top-sail halliards, and round in them starboard
braces a bit! That's your sort! Well, the head-yards! That'll do with the main! Up with the
flying jib, and trim aft them starboard jib and staysail sheets! There! Belay all."

Meanwhile the corvette, with her lofty dimity kissing the sky, caught the first light airs
before the slightest ripple darkened the surface of the water; and with her helm a-starboard,
and her after-yards braced sharp up, she silently swung round on her heel, while the spanker
came flat aft, like a sheet of white paper, and with the head-sails trimmed, she slowly moved
athwart the stern of the brig. The sharp whistles of the boatswain and his mates, piping like
goldfinches, were the only sounds that were heard; and as the cruiser moved on in her course,
the declining moon cast a mellow light over the folds of her canvas, and, like a girl in bridal
attire, she threw a graceful shadow over the smooth and swelling waters away off to windward.

The sails of the brig, which had begun to swell out in easy drooping lines, fell back again
flat to the masts as the ship crossed her wake. But as the corvette passed, the officer of
the watch on the poop raised his cap to the lovely woman who was standing out in graceful relief
on the upper cabin deck, with her little boy held up beside her in the sturdy arms of the black,
and placing the trumpet to his lips, said, in a distinct voice, as if addressing the skipper,

"We shall go about at midnight. Remember the directions I gave you this morning. Bon voyage,
madame!" He shook his trumpet playfully at the boy, who put out his chubby arms with delight
to the speaker, and then hammered away with great glee on the crown of his bearer's head.

"Thank you, sir," said Captain Blunt, who was leaning over the rail; and then turning to his
mate, he added,

"Them Yankees, Mr. Binks, always treats a merchantman like gentlemen on the high seas, and
I never knew one on 'em to turn their backs on friends or foes. What a pity they ever cut adrift
from the Old Country! Howsoever, matey, it can't be helped, and you had better up with the
port studding-sails, hang out all the rags, and make the old drogher walk."

Now came the rippling breeze all at once over the sea, fluttering furtively for a minute or
two, so as to make the top-sails of the brig swell out and then fall back in a tremulous shiver;
but again bulging forward in a full-breasted curve, the vessel felt the tug, and began to dash
the spray from her bluff bows till it fell away beyond the lee cathead in flying masses of
foam. The studding-sail booms rolled out, the sailors busied themselves aloft in making the
additional sail, and by-and-by the old brig floundered along, the bubbles gurgling out ahead
in the ruffled water, tipping over astern as the crests broke on her quarter; at times plunging
her bows into the rolling swell, but coming up sturdily again, and so on as before.

Meanwhile the corvette had edged away in a parallel course with the brig, running past her
at first as if she were at anchor, when she let her topgallant-sails slide down to the caps,
and, with the weather clew of her main-sail triced up, she held way with the brig a mile or
more to windward.

The moon was sinking well down in the west, and the clear, well-defined crescent was occasionally
obscured by the light fleecy clouds moving under the influence of the trade wind, when, toward
eight bells, the moon gave one pure white glimmer, threw a rippling flood of light over the
waves, and sunk below the horizon. Still the stars twinkled and the planets flamed out like
young moons--masked at intervals by the darkening clouds as they swept overhead in heavy masses--and
tinging the sea with shade, which would again break out in phosphorescent flashes as the waves
caught the reflection.

"Now, Madame Rosalie," said the kind old skipper, "it is nearly midnight; take your last snooze
in the old barky, and wake up bright and happy for Port Royal and--you know who, in the morning."

The charming woman had been watching, with soul-rapt gaze, the lofty hills of Jamaica from
the last blaze of the setting sun, and until the moon too had vanished and left only a dim
blue haze over the island. She started as the captain spoke, gave a deep sigh, kissed her hand
to the good old skipper, said "Bon soir, mon ami," and with a smile she entered her cabin.

The black was seated within the partition of the apartment, near a small swinging cot, urging
it gently to and fro, and watching over his little charge.

"Good-night, Banou," she said, in patois French; "you may go to bed, and I will take care of
my little boy."

The black grinned so as to show his double range of white teeth beneath the rays of the cabin
lamp, and without a word he moved silently away. The lady stood for a few moments gazing lovingly
at the sleeping child, and then drawing the miniature from her bosom, she detached it with
the chain from her neck, and after pressing it to her lips, she leaned softly over the cot
and fastened it around the little sleeper. As light and zephyr-like as was the effort, it caused
the little fellow to stir, and reaching out his tiny arms, while a baby smile played around
the dimples of his cheeks, he clasped his mother's neck.

Ah! fond and devoted mother! That was the last sweet infantile caress your child was ever destined
to give you! Treasure it up in joy and sorrow, in sunshine and gloom, for long, long years
will pass before you press him to your heart again!

CHAPTER V.

DARKNESS.

    "The busy deck is hushed, no sounds are waking
      But the watch pacing silently and slow;
    The waves against the sides incessant breaking,
      And rope and canvas swaying to and fro.
    The topmost sail, it seems like some dim pinnacle
      Cresting a shadowy tower amid the air;
    While red and fitful gleams come from the binnacle,
      The only light on board to guide us--where?"

On went the "Martha Blunt" with no fears of danger near. The bell struck eight, the watch had
been called, and the captain, taking a satisfactory look all around the horizon, glanced at
the compass, and, with a slight yawn, said,

"Well, Mr. Binks, I believe I'll turn in for a few hours; keep the brig on her course, and
at daylight call me. It will be time enough then to bend the cables, for I don't think we shall
want the anchors much afore noon to-morrow. Where's the corvette?"

"There she is, sir, away off on the port beam. She made more sail a few minutes ago, and now
she appears to be edging off the wind, and steering across our forefoot. I s'pose she's enjoying
of herself, sir, and exercisin' the crowds of chaps they has on board them craft."

"Well, good-night, matey"--pausing a moment, however, as the honest old skipper stepped down
the companion-way, and half communing with himself, and then, with his head just above the
slide, he added, "I say, Mr. Binks, there's no need, p'r'aps, but you may as well have a lantern
alight and bent on to the ensign halliards there under the taffrail, in case you want to signalize
the corvette. Ah, Banou! that you, old nigger? Good-night!"

So Captain Blunt went slowly down below, and at the same time the black went aft, coiled himself
down on the deck, and made a pillow of the brig's ensign.

Mr. Binks wriggled himself upon the weather rail, where, with a short pipe in his mouth, he
kicked his heels against the bulwarks, and while the old brig plunged doggedly on, he indulged
himself with a song, the air, however, being more like the growl of a bull-dog than a specimen
of music:

    "If lubberly landsmen, to gratitude strangers,
      Still curse their unfortunate stars;
    Why, what would they say did they try but the dangers
      Encounter'd by true-hearted tars?
    If life's vessel they put 'fore the wind, or they tack her,
      Or whether bound here or there,
    Give 'em sea-room, good-fellowship, grog, and tobaker,
      Well, then, damme if Jack cares where!"

"What d'ye think of that, Ben?" said Mr. Binks, as he finished his ditty, and sucked away on
his pipe.

"Why, Mr. Mate," replied Ben, as he gave the wheel a spoke or two to windward and glanced at
the binnacle, "the words is first-rate, but it seems to me your singing gear is a bit out o'
condition, and I thought you wos a prayin'; but the fact is," concluded Ben, apologetically,
"that whenever I hears grog and tobaker jined together, I likes to see them in my fist."

"Oh! you would, eh? Well, shipmate, turn and turn about is fair play; so here, just take a
pull at the pipe, and I'll step to the cuddy for the bottle, and we'll have a little sniffler
all around!"

Saying this, Mr. Binks swung off the rail, handed Ben the pipe, and after an absence of a few
moments, he returned with a square case-bottle and a pewter mug.

"Now, Ben," said he, "this 'ere is not a practice, as you know, I often is guilty of; but you
bein' a keerful hand and a stiddy helmsman, and port here close aboard, I've no objections
to take a toss with ye." Then pouring out a moderate quantity of the fluid, the mate handed
it to Ben, who, taking the pipe out of his mouth, and with one hand on the king-spoke of the
wheel and one eye at the compass-card, threw his head back and pitched the dram down his throat.

"My sarvice to ye, sir!" said Ben, as he smacked his lips and then shut them tight together,
fearful lest a breath of the precious liquid might escape; "a little of that stuff goes a great
ways."

Mr. Binks hereupon measured himself off an allowance, and touching Ben on the shoulder, raised
the pewter to his lips. Before, however, draining the cup, he tuned his pipes once more, and
croaked forth in this strain:

    "While up the shrouds the sailor goes,
      Or ventures on the yard,
    The landsman, who no better knows,
      Believes his lot is hard.
    But Jack with smiles each danger meets;
      Casts anchor, heaves the log,
    Trims all the sails, belays the sheets,
      And drink his can of grog!"

"Here comes the corvette, sir!" broke in Ben, as he stood on tiptoe, holding on to the spokes
of the wheel, and taking his eyes off the binnacle a moment to get a clear view over the rail.
"Here she comes, with her starboard tacks aboard, athwart our bow, and moving like an albatross!"

The man-of-war had for an hour or more crept well to windward, and then, wearing round, she
came down close upon the wind under royals, and her three jibs and spanker as flat as boards.
As she whirled on across the brig's bow, a few cables' length ahead, the sharp ring of the
whistles was again heard, and the moment after the head-sails fluttered and shook in the wind,
the sheets and blocks rattled, and with a clear order of "Main-sail haul!" the after-yards
swung round like magic, the sails filled, and without losing headway the head-yards were swung,
and she gathered way on the other tack. On she came, with the spray flying up into the weather
leech of her fore-sail, the dark mazes of her rigging marked out in clear lines against her
white canvas, and the watch noiselessly coiling up the ropes on her decks. As she pushed her
sharp snout through the water, and grazed along the brig's lee quarter, an officer on the poop
gave a rapid and searching glance around, peered sharply along the brig's deck, waved his trumpet
to the mate, and resumed his rapid tramp to windward. In ten minutes after she had passed the
brig's wake nothing was seen of her save a dark, dim outline; a light halo reflected on the
water from her white streak, and an occasional luminous flash of foam as it bounded away from
her lean bows.

Half an hour went by. The mate was sitting on the weather rail droning out an old sea-song
to himself, and the four or five men of the watch were dozing away along the bulwarks. Presently,
however, Ben, the helmsman, happened to let his eyes wander away from the compass-card for
a moment, as he steadied the wheel by his legs and bit a quid from his plug of niggerhead to
last him to suck for the remainder of the watch, when, glancing beneath the bulging folds of
the lee clew of the main-sail, he clapped both hands again on the steering spokes, and shouted,

"Mr. Mate, here's a sail close under our lee beam!"

"Where?" said Binks. But, before he had fairly time to run over to the other side of the vessel
and take a look for himself, a quick rattle of oars was heard as a boat grated against the
brig's side, and, before you could think, a swarm of fellows started up like so many shadows
above the rail. In five seconds they had jumped on the deck, Ben fell like a bullock from a
blow from the butt-end of a pistol, the helm was jammed hard down, the lee braces let fly,
and, as the old brig gave a lurching yaw in bringing her nose to windward, the weather leeches
shivered violently in the wind, and, taking flat aback, the studding-sail booms snapped short
off at the irons, and, with the sails, fell slamming and thumping below.

Meanwhile the mate had barely time to spring to the companion-way and sing out, "We're boarded
by pirates, Captain Blunt!" when he, too, received an ugly overhand lick from a cutlass on
his skull, and went senseless and bleeding down the hatchway like a scuttle of coals.

At the first noise, however, the black Banou sprang to his feet, and, as he caught a glimpse
of the fellows swarming over the side, he snatched hold of the ensign halliards where the signal
lantern had been bent on, and in an instant it was dancing away up to the gaff, shrouded from
view to leeward of the vessel by the spread of the spanker. In another moment the black leaped
to the deck cabin and darted through the door. But in less time than it has taken to tell it,
the "Martha Blunt" had changed hands.

There, on the quarter-deck, stood in groups some sixteen barefooted villains, in coarse striped
gingham shirts, loose trowsers, and skull-caps, and all with glittering, naked knives or cutlasses,
and pistols in their belts and hands. In the midst of this cluster of swarthy wretches, near
the companion-way, stood a burly, square-built ruffian, with a pistol in his right hand, and
his dexter paw pushing up a brown straw hat as he ran his fingers across his dripping forehead
and a tangled mass of carroty, unshorn locks. There was a wisp of a red silk kerchief tied
in a single knot around his bare bull neck; the shirt was thrown back, and exposed a tawny,
hairy chest, as a ray of light flashed up from the binnacle. He looked--as indeed he was--the
lowest type of a sailor scoundrel. His companions were of lighter build, and their dress, complexion,
and manner--to say nothing of their black hair and rings in their ears--indicated a birth and
breeding in other and hotter climes.

"Well, my lads," said the big fellow, who seemed to be in command, "the barkey is ours, and
we've cheated that infarnal cruiser handsomely. Go forward, Pedro, and gag them lubbers, and
then tell the boys to trim aft them jib sheets; and round in them after-braces, some of you,
so we can keep way with the schooner and take things easy."

Here he laughed in a husky, spirituous, low chuckle, and then went on: "This will make up for
lost time, amigos! Christo! there may be some ounces on board. But who's left in the boat,
Gomez?" This was addressed to a bow-legged, beetle-browed individual, with a hare-lip, which
kept his face in a perpetual and skeleton-like grin, who hissed out from between his decayed
front tusks,

"El Doctor Señor, con tres de nosotros." "Bueno! all right; three of the chaps will do to look
out for her; but tell the doctor to drop the boat astern, and veer him a rope from the gangway.
There! that's well with the braces! Keep her off a point; so--that'll do."

As the orders were promptly obeyed, and the crew of the brig gagged, and the vessel surged
slowly on her course, the same speaker turned to his men and said,

"Now, my hearties! let's have an overhaul of the skipper. Hand him up here, will ye? or, never
mind," he added, "I'll just step down and have a growl with him myself."

As the mate pitched head foremost down the companion ladder, two of the pirates jumped after
him, and, dealing him another cruel stab with a knife deep into the back, they passed on into
the lower cabin. There was a brief struggle, the sound of voices mingled with curses and threats,
and then all quiet again.

In pursuance of his expressed purpose, the stout ruffian slewed himself round, took a sweep
about the horizon, then sticking his pistol in its belt, he slowly descended the ladder, gave
the wounded and dying mate a kick, and with a hoarse laugh entered the cabin.

There, on a small sofa abaft, between the two stern air-ports, sat Captain Blunt. Blood was
trickling down in heavy drops from a lacerated bruise on his forehead; but, notwithstanding
the swelling and pain of the wound, his features were calm, stern, and honest. On either side
of him sat as villainous a brace of mongrel Portuguese or Spaniards as ever infested the high
seas; and his arms were pinioned by a stout cord to the bolt above the transom.

"My sarvice to you, sir!" said the leader of the gang, with a devilish smile of derision, as
he stuck his arms akimbo and squirted some tobacco-juice from his filthy mouth across the cabin
table at the pinioned prisoner.

"I s'pose you know by this time that you're a lawful prise, captured by an hindependent constable
of the West Indies, notwithstandin' ye had sich safe escort and convoy all the arternoon?"

Here he chuckled, squirted more juice over the table, then dropped down on a sea-chest cleated
to the deck, took off his hat, and scratched his yellowish red hair. The poor captain said
not a word, but shook a great clot of blood from his brow.

"Well, now, my old hearty, the first thing for you to do is to poke out your manifest, and
any other little matters of vallew ye may have stowed away; and be quick, mind ye, for you
haven't much time to sail in this 'ere craft. Howsoever, I s'pose ye can swim?"

"You'll find the manifest and the ship's papers there, inside that instrument-box; and all
the money in the vessel is in that locker; and I trust in Heaven it may burn your hands to
cinders, you devils!"

"Ho! smash my brains! keep a stopper on your jaw, or I'll squeeze your dead carcass through
that 'ere starn port."

The fellow rose as he spoke, and, stepping up to the narrow state-cabin near by, he jerked
open the upper drawer of a small bureau affair, and pulling out a canvas bag, sealed at the
mouth, tossed it on to the cabin table. The coin fell with the heavy dead sound peculiar to
gold, and the ruffian, after taking it up again and weighing it tenderly, growled out, "This
chink will do for a yapper, at any rate! So now let's have a peep at what the cargo consists on."

Then stepping a second time to the berth, he gave a kick to the instrument-box, the lid flew
off, and diving in his fist he drew out a bundle of papers. Once more seating himself at the
table beneath the swinging lamp, he clumsily undid the papers and spread them before him.

"What a blessed thing is edication," muttered he to himself, "and what a power o' knowledge
reading 'riting does for a man!" Putting his fat stumpy finger on each line of the manuscript
as he slowly began to spell out the contents, he began, "Man-i-fest of Brig 'Martha Blunt'--Ja-cob
Blunt, master:" here he paused, and, squirting more tobacco-juice over at the skipper, as if
to attract his attention, he suddenly ejaculated, "Hark ye! Master Blunt, what was the name
of that man-o'-war vessel as was lyin' by you this morning?"

"The 'Scourge,'" replied the skipper, faintly, as he shook another great drop of blood from
his brow.

"The what? The 'Scourge!' That Yankee snake! Smash my brains! D'ye know that that ship has
been a hangin' about the north side of Cuba for ever so long, interruptin' our trade? And you
an Englishman, to go and ax him to purtect ye! take that!"

Here he snatched a pistol from his sash, and, taking aim full at the skipper's breast, he pulled
the trigger. Fortunately, the weapon snapped and did not explode. The ruffian held it a moment
in his hand, and then letting it rest upon the table, he said, with a horrible imprecation,

"Ye see you wos not born to be shot; but we'll try what salt water will do for ye by-and-by."

Taking out his knife at the conclusion of this speech, he picked the flint of his pistol, opened
the pan, shook the priming, and then shoved the weapon back in his belt. The mention of the
"Scourge," however, had evidently caused him some trepidation, for when he resumed the perusal
of the manifest it was in a hurried, agitated sort of way, and not at all at his ease.

Smoothing the papers again before him, he went on, making running commentaries as he read:
"Eighty-six cases of silks--light, and easily stowed away; twenty-nine tons bar iron; sixty-four
sugar-kettles! it will help to sink the brig; forty pipes of Bordeaux; two hundred baskets
Champagne; three hundred and fifty boxes of claret--sour stuff, I warrant you; two casks Cognac
brandy--but I say, you Blunt," said the fellow, looking up, "where's your own private bottle?
It's thirsty work spellin' out all this 'ritin', and my mouth's as dry as a land-crab's claws.
Howsoever," he continued, as he caught the glance of satisfaction which came over the swarthy
faces of his companions beside the captain, "wait a bit, and we'll punch a hole in a fresh
barrel presently."

Having run through the manifest, he opened another paper and exclaimed, "Hallo! what have we
here? List of passengers--Madame Rosalie Piron and--ho! that's a French piece, I knows by the
name. Where is she? Hasn't died on the v'yage, has she? D'ye hear there, ye infarnal Blunt?"

The captain's face was troubled, and his head dropped down on his breast without replying;
but one of the scoundrels at his side struck him a brutal blow with the back of his knife-hilt
on the mouth, and jerking up, he said, with an effort,

"Yes, we have a female passenger on board, with a helpless child; but I pray you, in God's
name, to leave the innocent woman in peace. You've robbed and ruined me and my poor old wife--turn
me adrift if you like, drown or hang me, but don't harm the poor lady."

