Halid was reverently carried off to the Mosque, and Osman thought that it was time to leave
the corpse to take care of itself. The Imam laid Halid on the marble floor and prepared to
wash him prior to interment. He had taken off his turban and long cloak and got ready the water,
when he remembered that he had no soap, and immediately went out to purchase some. No sooner
had the Imam disappeared than Halid jumped up, and, donning the Imam's turban and long cloak,
repaired to the Sublime Porte. Here he asked admittance to the Grand Vizier, but this request
was not granted until he told the nature of his business. Halid said he was the Imam who, in
compliance with the verbal instructions received from his Highness, had buried a stranger and
that he had come for payment. The Grand Vizier sent five gold pieces (twenty piasters each)
to the supposed Imam, and Halid made off as fast as possible.

No sooner had Halid departed than the cloakless Imam arrived in breathless haste, and explained
that he was the Imam who had received instructions from the Grand Vizier to bury a stranger,
but that the supposed corpse had disappeared, and so had his cloak and turban. Witnesses proved
this man to be the bona-fide Imam of the quarter, and the Grand Vizier gave orders to his Chief
Detective to capture, within three days, on pain of death, and bring to the Sublime Porte,
this fearless evil-doer.

The Chief Detective was soon on the track of Halid; but the latter was on the keen lookout.
With the aid of the money he had received from the Grand Vizier to defray his burial expenses
he successfully evaded the clutches of the Chief Detective, who was greatly put about at being
thus frustrated. On the second day he again got scent of Halid and determined to follow him
till an opportunity offered for his capture. Halid knew that he was followed and divined the
intentions of his pursuer. As he was passing a pharmacy he noticed there several young men,
so he entered and explained in Jewish-Spanish (one of his accomplishments) to the Jew druggist,
as he handed him one of the gold pieces he had received from the Grand Vizier, that his uncle,
who would come in presently, was not right in his mind; but that if the druggist could manage
to douche his head and back with cold water, he would be all right for a week or two. No sooner
did the Chief Detective enter the shop than, at a word from the apothecary, the young men seized
him and, by means of a large squirt, they did their utmost to effectively give him the salutary
and cooling douche. The more the detective protested, the more the apothecary consolingly explained
that the operation would soon be over and that he would feel much better, and told of the numerous
similar cases he had cured in a like manner. The detective saw that it was useless to struggle,
so he abandoned himself to the treatment; and in the meantime Halid made off. The Chief Detective
was so disheartened that he went to the Grand Vizier and asked him to behead him, as death
was preferable to the annoyance he had received and might still receive at the hands of Chapkin
Halid. The Grand Vizier was both furious and amused, so he spared the Chief Detective and gave
orders that guards be placed at the twenty-four gates of the city, and that Halid be seized
at the first opportunity. A reward was further promised to the person who would bring him to
the Sublime Porte.

Halid was finally caught one night as he was going out of the Top-Kapou (Cannon Gate), and
the guards, rejoicing in their capture, after considerable consultation decided to bind Halid
to a large tree close to the Guard house, and thus both avoid the loss of sleep and the anxiety
incident to watching over so desperate a character. This was done, and Halid now thought that
his case was hopeless. Towards dawn, Halid perceived a man with a lantern walking toward the
Armenian Church, and rightly concluded that it was the beadle going to make ready for the early
morning service. So he called out in a loud voice:

"Beadle! Brother! Beadle! Brother! come here quickly."

Now it happened that the beadle was a poor hunchback, and no sooner did Halid perceive this
than he said:

"Quick! Quick! Beadle, look at my back and see if it has gone!"

"See if what has gone?" asked the beadle, carefully looking behind the tree.

"Why, my hump, of course," answered Halid.

The beadle made a close inspection and declared that he could see no hump.

"A thousand thanks!" fervently exclaimed Halid, "then please undo the rope."

The beadle set about to liberate Halid, and at the same time earnestly begged to be told how
he had got rid of the hump, so that he also might free himself of his deformity. Halid agreed
to tell him the cure, provided the beadle had not yet broken fast, and also that he was prepared
to pay a certain small sum of money for the secret. The beadle satisfied Halid on both of these
points, and the latter immediately set about binding the hunchback to the tree, and further
told him, on pain of breaking the spell, to repeat sixty-one times the words: 'Esserti! Pesserti!
Sersepeti!' if he did this, the hump would of a certainty disappear. Halid left the poor beadle
religiously and earnestly repeating the words.

The guards were furious when they found, bound to the tree, a madman, as they thought, repeating
incoherent words, instead of Halid. They began to unbind the captive, but the only answer they
could get to their host of questions was 'Esserti, Pesserti, Sersepeti.' As the knots were
loosened, the louder did the beadle in despair call out the charmed words in the hopes of arresting
them. No sooner was the beadle freed than he asked God to bring down calamity on the destroyers
of the charm that was to remove his hunch. On hearing the beadle's tale, the guards understood
how their prisoner had secured his liberty, and sent word to the Chief Detective. This gentleman
told the Grand Vizier of the unheard-of cunning of the escaped prisoner. The Grand Vizier was
amused and also very anxious to see this Chapkin Halid, so he sent criers all over the city,
giving full pardon to Halid on condition that he would come to the Sublime Porte and confess
in person to the Grand Vizier. Halid obeyed the summons, and came to kiss the hem of the Grand
Vizier's garment, who was so favorably impressed by him that he then and there appointed him
to be his Chief Detective.

HOW COBBLER AHMET BECAME THE CHIEF ASTROLOGER

Every day cobbler Ahmet, year in and year out, measured the breadth of his tiny cabin with
his arms as he stitched old shoes. To do this was his Kismet, his decreed fate, and he was
content--and why not? his business brought him quite sufficient to provide the necessaries
of life for both himself and his wife. And had it not been for a coincidence that occurred,
in all probability he would have mended old boots and shoes to the end of his days.

One day cobbler Ahmet's wife went to the Hamam (bath), and while there she was much annoyed
at being obliged to give up her compartment, owing to the arrival of the Harem and retinue
of the Chief Astrologer to the Sultan. Much hurt, she returned home and vented her pique upon
her innocent husband.

"Why are you not the Chief Astrologer to the Sultan?" she said. "I will never call or think
of you as my husband until you have been appointed Chief Astrologer to his Majesty."

Ahmet thought that this was another phase in the eccentricity of woman which in all probability
would disappear before morning, so he took small notice of what his wife said. But Ahmet was
wrong. His wife persisted so much in his giving up his present means of earning a livelihood
and becoming an astrologer, that finally, for the sake of peace, he complied with her desire.
He sold his tools and collection of sundry old boots and shoes, and, with the proceeds purchased
an inkwell and reeds. But this, alas! did not constitute him an astrologer, and he explained
to his wife that this mad idea of hers would bring him to an unhappy end. She, however, could
not be moved, and insisted on his going to the highway, there to wisely practise the art, and
thus ultimately become the Chief Astrologer.

In obedience to his wife's instructions, Ahmet sat down on the highroad, and his oppressed
spirit sought comfort in looking at the heavens and sighing deeply. While in this condition
a Hanoum in great excitement came and asked him if he communicated with the stars. Poor Ahmet
sighed, saying that he was compelled to converse with them.

"Then please tell me where my diamond ring is, and I will both bless and handsomely reward you."

The Hanoum, with this, immediately squatted on the ground, and began to tell Ahmet that she
had gone to the bath that morning and that she was positive that she then had the ring, but
every corner of the Hamam had been searched, and the ring was not to be found.

"Oh! astrologer, for the love of Allah, exert your eye to see the unseen."

"Hanoum Effendi," replied Ahmet, the instant her excited flow of language had ceased, "I perceive
a rent," referring to a tear he had noticed in her shalvars or baggy trousers. Up jumped the
Hanoum, exclaiming:

"A thousand holy thanks! You are right! Now I remember! I put the ring in a crevice of the
cold water fountain." And in her gratitude she handed Ahmet several gold pieces.

In the evening he returned to his home, and giving the gold to his wife, said: "Take this money,
wife; may it satisfy you, and in return all I ask is that you allow me to go back to the trade
of my father, and not expose me to the danger and suffering of trudging the road shoeless."

But her purpose was unmoved. Until he became the Chief Astrologer she would neither call him
nor think of him as her husband.

In the meantime, owing to the discovery of the ring, the fame of Ahmet the cobbler spread far
and wide. The tongue of the Hanoum never ceased to sound his praise.

It happened that the wife of a certain Pasha had appropriated a valuable diamond necklace,
and as a last resource, the Pasha determined, seeing that all the astrologers, Hodjas, and
diviners had failed to discover the article, to consult Ahmet the cobbler, whose praises were
in every mouth.

The Pasha went to Ahmet, and, in fear and trembling, the wife who had appropriated the necklace
sent her confidential slave to overhear what the astrologer would say. The Pasha told Ahmet
all he knew about the necklace, but this gave no clue, and in despair he asked how many diamonds
the necklace contained. On being told that there were twenty-four, Ahmet, to put off the evil
hour, said it would take an hour to discover each diamond, consequently would the Pasha come
on the morrow at the same hour when, Inshallah, he would perhaps be able to give him some news.

The Pasha departed, and no sooner was he out of earshot, than the troubled Ahmet exclaimed
in a loud voice:

"Oh woman! Oh woman! what evil influence impelled you to go the wrong path, and drag others
with you! When the twenty-four hours are up, you will perhaps repent! Alas! Too late. Your
husband gone from you forever! Without a hope even of being united in paradise."

Ahmet was referring to himself and his wife, for he fully expected to be cast into prison on
the following day as an impostor. But the slave who had been listening gave another interpretation
to his words, and hurrying off, told her mistress that the astrologer knew all about the theft.
The good man had even bewailed the separation that would inevitably take place. The Pasha's
wife was distracted, and hurried off to plead her cause in person with the astrologer. On approaching
Ahmet, the first words she said, in her excitement, were:

"Oh learned Hodja, you are a great and good man. Have compassion on my weakness and do not
expose me to the wrath of my husband! I will do such penance as you may order, and bless you
five times daily as long as I live."

"How can I save you?" innocently asked Ahmet. "What is decreed is decreed!"

And then, though silent, looked volumes, for he instinctively knew that words unuttered were
arrows still in the quiver.

"If you won't pity me," continued the Hanoum, in despair, "I will go and confess to my Pasha,
and perhaps he will forgive me."

To this appeal Ahmet said he must ask the stars for their views on the subject. The Hanoum
inquired if the answer would come before the twenty-four hours were up. Ahmet's reply to this
was a long and concentrated gaze at the heavens.

"Oh Hodja Effendi, I must go now, or the Pasha will miss me. Shall I give you the necklace
to restore to the Pasha without explanation, when he comes to-morrow for the answer?"

Ahmet now realized what all the trouble was about, and in consideration of a fee, he promised
not to reveal her theft on the condition that she would at once return home and place the necklace
between the mattresses of her Pasha's bed. This the grateful woman agreed to do, and departed
invoking blessings on Ahmet, who in return promised to exercise his influence in her behalf
for astral intervention.

When the Pasha came to the astrologer at the appointed time, he explained to him, that if he
wanted both the necklace and the thief or thieves, it would take a long time, as it was impossible
to hurry the stars; but if he would be content with the necklace alone, the horoscope indicated
that the stars would oblige him at once. The Pasha said that he would be quite satisfied if
he could get his diamonds again, and Ahmet at once told him where to find them. The Pasha returned
to his home not a little sceptical, and immediately searched for the necklace where Ahmet had
told him it was to be found. His joy and astonishment on discovering the long-lost article
knew no bounds, and the fame of Ahmet the cobbler was the theme of every tongue.

Having received handsome payment from both the Pasha and the Hanoum, Ahmet earnestly begged
of his wife to desist and not bring down sorrow and calamity upon his head. But his pleadings
were in vain. Satan had closed his wife's ear to reason with envy. Resigned to his fate, all
he could do was to consult the stars, and after mature thought give their communication, or
assert that the stars had, for some reason best known to the applicant, refused to commune
on the subject.

It happened that forty cases of gold were stolen from the Imperial Treasury, and every astrologer
having failed to get even a clue as to where the money was or how it had disappeared, Ahmet
was approached. Poor man, his case now looked hopeless! Even the Chief Astrologer was in disgrace.
What might be his punishment he did not know--most probably death. Ahmet had no idea of the
numerical importance of forty; but concluding that it must be large he asked for a delay of
forty days to discover the forty cases of gold. Ahmet gathered up the implements of his occult
art, and before returning to his home, went to a shop and asked for forty beans--neither one
more nor one less. When he got home and laid them down before him he appreciated the number
of cases of gold that had been stolen, and also the number of days he had to live. He knew
it would be useless to explain to his wife the seriousness of the case, so that evening he
took from his pocket the forty beans and mournfully said:

"Forty cases of gold,--forty thieves,--forty days; and here is one of them," handing a bean
to his wife. "The rest remain in their place until the time comes to give them up."

While Ahmet was saying this to his wife one of the thieves was listening at the window. The
thief was sure he had been discovered when he heard Ahmet say, "And here is one of them," and
hurried off to tell his companions.

The thieves were greatly distressed, but decided to wait till the next evening and see what
would happen then, and another of the number was sent to listen and see if the report would
be verified. The listener had not long been stationed at his post when he heard Ahmet say to
his wife: "And here is another of them," meaning another of the forty days of his life. But
the thief understood the words otherwise, and hurried off to tell his chief that the astrologer
knew all about it and knew that he had been there. The thieves consequently decided to send
a delegation to Ahmet, confessing their guilt and offering to return the forty cases of gold
intact. Ahmet received them, and on hearing their confession, accompanied with their condition
to return the gold, boldly told them that he did not require their aid; that it was in his
power to take possession of the forty cases of gold whenever he wished, but that he had no
special desire to see them all executed, and he would plead their cause if they would go and
put the gold in a place he indicated. This was agreed to, and Ahmet continued to give his wife
a bean daily--but now with another purpose; he no longer feared the loss of his head, but discounted
by degrees the great reward he hoped to receive. At last the final bean was given to his wife,
and Ahmet was summoned to the Palace. He went, and explained to his Majesty that the stars
refused both to reveal the thieves and the gold, but whichever of the two his Majesty wished
would be immediately granted. The Treasury being low, it was decided that, provided the cases
were returned with the gold intact, his Majesty would be satisfied. Ahmet conducted them to
the place where the gold was buried, and amidst great rejoicing it was taken back to the Palace.
The Sultan was so pleased with Ahmet, that he appointed him to the office of Chief Astrologer,
and his wife attained her desire.

The Sultan was one day walking in his Palace grounds accompanied by his Chief Astrologer; wishing
to test his powers he caught a grasshopper, and holding his closed hand out to the astrologer
asked him what it contained. Ahmet, in a pained and reproachful tone, answered the Sultan by
a much-quoted proverb: "Alas! Your Majesty! the grasshopper never knows where its third leap
will land it," figuratively alluding to himself and the dangerous hazard of guessing what was
in the clenched hand of his Majesty. The Sultan was so struck by the reply that Ahmet was never
again troubled to demonstrate his powers.

THE WISE SON OF ALI PASHA

A servant of his Majesty Sultan Ahmet, who had been employed for twenty-five years in the Palace,
begged leave of the Sultan to allow him to retire to his native home, and at the same time
solicited a pension to enable him to live. The Sultan asked him if he had not saved any money.
The man replied that owing to his having to support a large family, he had been unable to do
so. The Sultan was very angry that any of his servants, especially in the immediate employ
of his household, should, after so many years' service, say that he was penniless. Disbelieving
the statement, and in order to make an example, the Sultan gave orders that Hassan should quit
the Palace in the identical state he had entered it twenty-five years before. Hassan was accordingly
disrobed of all his splendor, and his various effects, the accumulation of a quarter of a century,
were confiscated, and distributed amongst the legion of Palace servants. Poor Hassan, without
a piaster in his pocket, and dressed in the rude costume of his native province, began his
weary journey homeward on foot.

In time he reached the suburbs of a town in Asia Minor, and seeing some boys playing, he approached
them, sat on the ground, and watched their pastime. The boys were playing at state affairs:
one was a Sultan, another his Vizier, who had his cabinet of Ministers, while close by were
a number of boys bound hand and foot, representing political and other prisoners, awaiting
judgment for their imaginary misdeeds. The Sultan, who was sitting with worthy dignity on a
throne made of branches and stones, decorated with many-colored centrepieces, beckoned to Hassan
to draw near, and asked him where he had come from. Hassan replied that he had come from Stamboul,
from the Palace of the Sultan.

"That's a lie," said the mock Sultan, "no one ever came from Stamboul dressed in that fashion,
much less from the Palace; you are from the far interior, and if you do not confess that what
I say is true, you will be tried by my Ministers, and punished accordingly."

Hassan, partly to participate in their boyish amusement, and partly to unburden his aching
heart, related his sad fate to his youthful audience. When he had finished, the boy Sultan,
Ali by name, asked him if he had received his twenty-five years. Hassan, not fully grasping
what the boy said, replied:

"Nothing! Nothing!"

"That is unjust," continued Ali, "and you shall go back to the Sultan and ask that your twenty-five
years be returned to you so that you may plough and till your ground, and thus make provision
for the period of want, old age."

Hassan was struck by the sound advice the boy had given him, thanked him and said he would
follow it to the letter. The boys then in thoughtless mirth separated, to return to their homes,
never dreaming that the seeds of destiny of one of their number had been sown in play. Hassan,
retracing his steps, reappeared in time at the gates of the Palace and begged admittance, stating
that he had forgotten to communicate something of importance to his Majesty. His request being
granted, he humbly solicited, that, inasmuch as his Majesty had been dissatisfied with his
long service, the twenty-five years he had devoted to him should be returned, so that he might
labor and put by something to provide for the inevitable day when he could no longer work.
The Sultan answered:

"That is well said and just. As it is not in my power to give you the twenty-five years, the
best equivalent I can grant you is the means of sustenance for a period of that duration should
you live so long. But tell me, who advised you to make this request?"

Hassan then related his adventure with the boys while on his journey home, and his Majesty
was so pleased with the judgment and advice of the lad that he sent for him and had him educated.
The boy studied medicine, and distinguishing himself in the profession ultimately rose to be
Hekim Ali Pasha.

He had one son who was known as Doctor Ali Pasha's son. He studied calligraphy, and became
so proficient in this art, now almost lost, that his imitations of the Imperial Iradés (decrees)
were perfect fac-similes of the originals. One day he took it into his head to write an Iradé
appointing himself Grand Vizier, in place of the reigning one, a protégé of the Imperial Palace,
which Iradé he took to the Sublime Porte and there and then installed himself. By chance the
Sultan happened to drive through Stamboul that day, in disguise, and noticing considerable
excitement and cries of "Padishahim chok yasha" (long live my Sultan) amongst the people, made
inquiries as to the cause of this unusual occurrence. His Majesty's informers brought him the
word that the people rejoiced in the fall of the old Grand Vizier, and the appointment of the
new one, Doctor Ali Pasha's son. The Sultan returned to the Palace and immediately sent one
of his eunuchs to the Sublime Porte to see the Grand Vizier and find out the meaning of these
strange proceedings.

The eunuch was announced, and the Grand Vizier ordered him to be brought into his presence.
Directly he appeared in the doorway, he was greeted with: "What do you want, you black dog?"

Then turning to the numerous attendants about, he said: "Take this nigger to the slave market,
and see what price he will bring."

The eunuch was taken to the slave market, and the highest price bid for him was fifty piasters.
On hearing this, the Grand Vizier turned to the eunuch and said: "Go and tell your master what
you are worth, and tell him that I think it too much by far."

The eunuch was glad to get off, and communicated to his Majesty the story of his strange treatment.
The Sultan then ordered his Chief Eunuch, a not unimportant personage in the Ottoman Empire,
to call on the Grand Vizier for an explanation. At the Sublime Porte, however, no respect was
paid to this high dignitary. Ali Pasha received him in precisely the same manner as he had
received his subordinate. The chief was taken to the slave market, and the highest sum bid
for him was five hundred piasters. The self-appointed Grand Vizier ordered him to go and tell
his master the amount some foolish people were willing to pay for him.

When the Sultan heard of these strange proceedings he sent an autograph letter to Ali Pasha,
commanding him to come to the Palace. The Grand Vizier immediately set out for the Palace and
was received in audience, when he explained to his Majesty that the affairs of State could
not be managed by men not worth more than from fifty to five hundred piasters, and that if
radical changes were not made, certain ruin would be the outcome. The Sultan appreciated this
earnest communication, and ratified the appointment, as Grand Vizier, of Ali Pasha, the son
of the boy who had played at state affairs in a village of Asia Minor.

THE MERCIFUL KHAN

There lived once near Ispahan a tailor, a hard-working man, who was very poor. So poor was
he that his workshop and house together consisted of a wooden cottage of but one room.

But poverty is no protection against thieves, and so it happened that one night a thief entered
the hut of the tailor. The tailor had driven nails in various places in the walls on which
to hang the garments that were brought to him to mend. It chanced that in groping about for
plunder, the thief struck against one of these nails and put out his eye.

The next morning the thief appeared before the Khan (Judge) and demanded justice. The Khan
accordingly sent for the tailor, stated the complaint of the thief, and said that in accordance
with the law, 'an eye for an eye,' it would be necessary to put out one of the tailor's eyes.
As usual, however, the tailor was allowed to plead in his own defence, whereupon he thus addressed
the court:

"Oh great and mighty Khan, it is true that the law says an eye for an eye, but it does not
say my eye. Now I am a poor man, and a tailor. If the Khan puts out one of my eyes, I will
not be able to carry on my trade, and so I shall starve. Now it happens that there lives near
me a gunsmith. He uses but one eye with which he squints along the barrel of his guns. Take
his other eye, oh Khan, and let the law be satisfied."

The Khan was favorably impressed with this idea, and accordingly sent for the gunsmith. He
recited to the gunsmith the complaint of the thief and the statement of the tailor, whereupon
the gunsmith said:

