Each of these has retained its own distinct character, its own national history, its own patriotism
and self-respect. Their affairs, great and small, general or local, are administered by one
Parliament in which each is fully represented. A large majority of the Irish people have, however,
asked that in addition to some representation in the united Parliament they shall be granted
a local Parliament for the management of their own internal affairs. The fact that this demand,
which has an important imperial as well as local bearing, has not yet been complied with has
constantly been used by the enemies of the Entente Powers to represent as false and hypocritical
the claims of those Powers to be regarded as the champions of the rights of small nationalities;
and the case of Ireland has been compared with that of Prussian Poland, as though the peoples
of these two countries were suffering the same kind of oppression, the same injustice, the
same denial of the right of every man to live and prosper in his own land on equal terms with
his fellow-citizens in every other part of the realm.

The best answer to this charge is to tell plainly, without contention or exaggeration, what
the united Parliament has done for Ireland since the beginning of the period of reform nearly
fifty years ago. That is what is here attempted, so far as it can be done in a few pages. It
must be fully understood that on the Home Rule question the present statement has no bearing
whatever. That difficult problem lies in an altogether different sphere of politics, and must
he judged by considerations which cannot be touched on here. Without, however, trenching in
any degree on controversial ground, it may be pointed out that the crucial difficulty of the
Home Rule question lies, and has always lain, in the fact that in Ireland a substantial and
important minority amounting to about 25 per cent. of the population, and differing from the
rest of the country in religion, national traditions, and economic development, has hitherto
been resolutely opposed to passing from the immediate government of the imperial Parliament
to that of any other body. This minority being, for the most part, grouped together in the
North-east counties, the late Government attempted to solve the difficulty by offering immediate
Home Rule to that section of Ireland which desires it, while leaving the remainder as it is
until Parliament should otherwise decree. This proposal was rejected by the general opinion
of Nationalist Ireland, which was firmly opposed to the partition of the country for any indefinite
period. The question, therefore, remains for the present in suspense, until a solution can
be found which will not only ensure the integrity and security of the Empire but reconcile
the conflicting desires and interests of Irishmen themselves.

Ireland Fifty Years Ago

So much to clear the ground in regard to the Home Rule controversy. I shall now ask the reader
to glance for a moment at the condition of Ireland fifty years ago. At that time almost the
whole agricultural population were in the position of tenants-at-will, with no security either
against increased rents or arbitrary eviction. The housing of the rural population, and especially
of the agricultural labourers, was wretched in the extreme. Local taxation and administration
were wholly in the hands of Grand Juries, bodies appointed by the Crown from among the country
gentlemen in each district. Irish Roman Catholics were without any system of University education
comparable to that which Protestants had enjoyed for three hundred years in the University
of Dublin. A Church which, whatever its historic claims may have been, numbered only about
12 per cent. of the population was established by law and supported by tithes levied on the
whole country. Technical education was inaccessible to the great bulk of the nation; and in
no department of public education, of any grade or by whomsoever administered, was any attention
paid to Irish history, the Irish language, Irish literature, or any subject which might lead
young Irishmen to a better knowledge and understanding of the special problems of their country
and its special claims to the love and respect of its children.

That was the Ireland of fifty years ago. It is an Ireland which at the present day lives only
on the lips of anti-British orators and journalists. It is an Ireland as dead as the France
of Louis XIV. Of the abuses and disabilities just recounted not one survives to-day. The measures
by which they have been removed place to the credit of the United Kingdom a record of reform
the details of which, for the benefit of friends or foes, may be here very briefly set down.

Religious Equality

In 1869 the Protestant Episcopal Church was disestablished and disendowed, and is now--many
Churchmen believe to its great spiritual advantage--on the same level as regards its means
of support as every other denomination in Ireland. It may be mentioned that the Roman Catholic
Church in Ireland was long in the enjoyment of a State subsidy for the education of its clergy,
a subsidy commuted in 1869 for a capital sum of 370,000 pounds.

Land Reform

As comparisons have been drawn between the systems of government in Ireland and in Poland,
let us consider for a moment the condition of the Polish rural population under German rule.
It must be noted that the recent promises of Polish autonomy made by Germany--obviously for
military and temporary reasons--refer only to those portions of Polish territory held by other
States. No change is to be made in the position of Prussian Poland. Here, for many years, it
has been, and still is, the avowed object of the Prussian Government either to extirpate or
forcibly Teutonise this Slavonic population, and to replant the country with German colonists.
The German Chancellor in 1900, Prince von Buelow, defended this anti-Polish policy in the cynical
saying that "rabbits breed faster than hares," and the meaner animal, the Pole, must therefore
be drastically kept down in favour of the German. Between 1886 and 1906 the Prussian Government
was spending over a million sterling a year in buying out Polish landowners, great and small,
and planting Germans in their stead. The measure proved futile; the "rabbits" still multiplied,
for the Poles bought land from German owners faster than the Government did from them. In 1904,
in order to check the development of Polish agriculture and land-settlement, the Government
took the extreme step of forbidding Poles to build new farmhouses without a licence. A still
more oppressive measure came in 1908, when, in clear defiance of the German Constitution, the
Prussian Government actually took powers and were voted funds--from taxation paid by Poles
and Germans alike--for the compulsory expropriation of Polish owners against whom nothing whatever
could be alleged except their non-German nationality. These powers have been put into operation,
and every Pole in Prussia now holds his patrimony on his own soil on the sufferance of a Government
which regards his very existence as a nuisance, because he occupies a place which a German
might otherwise fill.

During precisely the same period the British Government in Ireland has been bending the wealth
and credit of the United Kingdom to objects precisely the reverse. Ireland, owing to the wars
and confiscations of the seventeenth century, had come to have a land-owning aristocracy mainly
of English descent with a Celtic peasantry holding their farms as yearly tenants. The object
of British land-legislation has been to expropriate the landlords, so far as their tenanted
land is concerned, and to establish the Irish peasant, as absolute owner of the land he tills.
The Irish tenant is now subject only to rents fixed by law; he can at any time sell the interest
in his farm, which he has, therefore, a direct interest in improving; he is also assisted by
a great scheme of land-purchase to become owner of his land on paying the price by terminable
instalments, which are usually some 20 per cent. less than the amount he formerly paid as rent.
Under this scheme about two-thirds of the Irish tenantry have already become owners of their
farms, while the remainder enjoy a tenure which is almost as easy and secure as ownership itself.
It is not surprising, then, that a German economist who has made a special study of this subject
should declare that "the Irish tenants have had conditions assured to them more favourable
than any other tenantry in the world enjoy"; adding the dry comment that in Ireland the "magic
of property" appears to consist in the fact that it is cheaper to acquire it than not.[*] That
magic has been worked for Ireland by the British Legislature and by British credit. As in Prussia,
compulsory powers (limited by certain conditions and to certain districts) stand behind the
schemes of the Government; but the compulsion is exercised not against the Irishman in favour
of the English settler, but against the (usually) English landlord in favour of the Irish tenant.
The State is now pledged to about 130,000,000 pounds for the furtherance of this scheme, the
instalments and sinking fund to the amount of about 5,000,000 pounds a year being paid with
exemplary regularity by the farmers who have taken advantage of it.

[Footnote *: Professor M. Bonn, of Munich University. "Modern Ireland and her Agrarian Problem,"
pp. 151, 162, translated from "Die irische Agrarfrage." Archiv fuer Sozialwissenschaft; Mohr,
Tuebingen.]

The Congested Districts Board

In the poorer and more backward regions of the West it has been felt that the above measures
are not enough, and a special agency has been constituted with very wide powers to help the
Western farmer, and not only the farmer, but the fisherman, the weaver, or anyone pursuing
a productive occupation there, to make the most of his resources and to develop his industry
in the best possible way. This Board commands a statutory endowment of 231,000 pounds a year.
A system of light railways which now covers these remote districts has given new and valuable
facilities for the marketing of fish and every kind of produce.

The various Boards and other agencies by which these measures are carried into execution are
manned almost exclusively by Irishmen.

The Agricultural Labourer

There is a world of difference between the present lot of the Irish agricultural labourer and
his condition in 1883, when reform in this department was first taken in hand. Cottages can
now be provided by the Rural District Councils and let at nominal rents. Nearly nine millions
sterling have been voted for this purpose at low interest, with sinking fund, and up to the
present date 47,000 cottages have been built, each with its plot of land, while several thousand
more are sanctioned.

Of the results of the Labourers' Act a recent observer writes:

    "The Irish agricultural labourer can now obtain a cottage with three
    rooms, a piggery, and garden allotment of an acre or half an acre,
    and for this he is charged a rent of one to two shillings a week ...
    These cottages by the wayside give a hopeful aspect to the country
    ... flowers are before the doors of the new cottages and creepers
    upon the walls. The labourer can keep pigs, poultry, and a goat, and
    grow his potatoes and vegetables in his garden allotment."[*]

[Footnote *: Padraic Colum: "My Irish Year," pp. 18, 19.]

Local Government

In 1898 a Local Government Bill was passed for Ireland which placed the administration of the
poor law and other local affairs for rural districts on the same footing as in England. The
rule of the Grand Juries, which had lasted for two and a half centuries, and which had, on
the whole, carried on local affairs with credit and success, was now entirely swept away, and
elected bodies were placed in full control of local taxation, administration, and patronage.
In the case of the larger towns free municipal institutions had already existed for some sixty
years. In these the franchise was now reduced, and is wide enough both in town and country
to admit every class of the population. Since 1899 the new elective bodies have had important
duties to fulfil in regard to the development of agriculture and technical instruction.

The Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction

This new Irish Department of State grew out of a demand formulated after long inquiry and discussion
by a voluntary Irish committee representing both Unionist and Nationalist opinion. It was established
in 1899, and now commands the large endowment of 197,000 pounds a year, with a capital sum
of over 200,000 pounds. The annual endowment is clear of all charges for offices and staff,
which are on the Civil Service Estimates. Its head is a Minister responsible to Parliament,
but associated with him are Boards of Agriculture and Technical Instruction, two-thirds of
which are elected respectively by County and Borough Councils. Without their concurrence no
expenditure can be undertaken, and local work is largely carried on through committees appointed
by these Councils. The people at large are therefore intimately and responsibly associated
with the work of the Department, the annual meetings of which form a kind of industrial Parliament,
where the whole economic organisation of Ireland can be reviewed, debated, and developed. The
Department works by teaching, by inquiry, by experiment, and has an immense field of activity
in dealing with cattle diseases, the improvement of stock, the control of creameries, the marketing
of produce, etc. It has also brought facilities for technical instruction into every important
centre of population.

University Education

This important question was settled in 1908 by the foundation of a new University, the "National
University," with its central authority in Dublin and colleges in Dublin (the old Catholic
University of which Cardinal Newman was rector), in Cork, and in Galway. The University is
open to all creeds, and may not impose religious tests upon its students, but its government
is mainly in the hands of the Roman Catholic hierarchy, and it is accepted as a fair settlement
of the question of Catholic higher education in Ireland. In the management of its internal
affairs, the appointment of professors, the selection of textbooks, etc., the National University
is wholly autonomous and free from Government interference. One of its most remarkable features
is that the Irish language has been made an obligatory subject for matriculation. The endowment
of the University, with its constituent colleges, amounts to 74,000 pounds a year, and it was
voted a capital sum for building and equipment of 170,000 pounds. It need hardly be said that
no parallel to this institution exists in Prussian Poland.

Language and Native Culture

In this as in other respects a comparison with the theory and practice of German administration
may help to place the policy of the United Kingdom in its proper light. When at the Congress
of Vienna, 1815, Prussia definitely acquired her present share of Polish territory, King Friedrich
Wilhelm III promised for himself and his successors, "on my kingly word," that the Poles should
have religious freedom, the use of the Polish language in administration, in the Law Courts
and in the schools, and be in all respects on an equality with their German fellow-citizens.
We have already seen how these promises were kept in regard to the vital question of the ownership
of land. They have been no less flagrantly broken in regard to the national language. The use
of Polish is strictly prohibited at all public meetings. No Polish deputy to the Reichstag
may address his constituents in the only language they understand. Since 1873 German alone
may be taught in the national schools. The language of instruction must be German wherever
half the pupils are capable of understanding it, and after 1928 it is decreed that no other
language must be heard in the schoolroom. A decree of 1899 forbids teachers to use Polish even
in their own family circles. Anyone who is caught teaching Polish, even gratuitously, is punished
by fine or imprisonment. Polish literature found in the houses of private persons is confiscated,
and its possessors imprisoned, if the police consider it to bear the least trace of any propagandist
character.[*]

[Footnote *: "The Evolution of Modern Germany," by W. H. Dawson, brings together in its twenty-third
chapter most of the facts relating to this question. See especially a letter from a prominent
member of the Polish aristocracy quoted on p. 475.]

All this, it will be seen, is merely the drastic execution tion of the policy laid down by
Treitschke, the prophet of modern Germany, and more recently urged by the most popular living
representative of Prussian ideals, H. S. Chamberlain.

    "There is," writes Chamberlain, "no task before us so important as
    that of forcing the German language on the world (die deutsche
    Sprache der Welt aufzuzwingen.)" The German has "a twofold duty"
    laid on him: "never must a German abandon his own speech, neither he
    nor his children's children; and in every place, at every time, he
    must remember to compel others to use it until it has triumphed
    everywhere as the German Army has done in war. ... So far as the
    German Empire extends, the clergy must preach in German alone, in
    German alone the teacher must give his lessons ... Mankind must be
    made to understand that anyone who cannot speak German is a
    pariah."[*]

[Footnote *: "Kriegsaufsaetze," 1914.]

Such are the ideals and such the practice of the people whom Roger Casement and one or two
other enthusiasts for Gaelic culture in Ireland have sought to make the dominant power in that
country, because it will rid them of "English" rule.

Let us now see what "English" rule (it is not really English at all, but the rule of the United
Kingdom) is actually like in regard to this particular subject. Up to the decade 1830-40 it
may be said that the Irish language was spoken by fully half the population of Ireland. No
restrictive measures were in force against it. But during that decade a general system of elementary
education was introduced, and in the Board Schools the language withered away with astonishing
rapidity. At the last census (1911) only 16,000 persons were recorded as speaking Irish alone,
while the number of those who knew anything of the language was only about 13 per cent. of
the population. Whether this change was a blessing or a bane to Ireland is a subject which
is outside the range of this discussion, but whatever it was the Irish people themselves had
a full share of responsibility for the result. With scarcely an exception, the abandonment
of Irish was approved by the clergy, the political leaders, and the masses of the people "The
killing of the language," writes Dr. Douglas Hyde, "took place under the eye of O'Connell and
the Parliamentarians, and, of course, under the eye and with the sanction of the Catholic priesthood
and prelates ... From a complexity of causes which I am afraid to explain, the men who for
the last sixty years have had the ear of the Irish race have persistently shown the cold shoulder
to everything that was Irish and racial."[*] Their attitude is easily understood. Irish had
long ceased to be used for literary purposes. No Irish newspapers, no Irish books were printed;
English was regarded as the only available key to the world of modern culture, and Ireland
became an English-speaking country without a struggle and almost without a regret.

[Footnote *: "Beside the Fire," pp. xliii, xliv (1890). Dr. Hyde was the first president of
the Gaelic League, and is now Professor of Modern Irish in the National University.]

In the early 'nineties, however, a popular movement took shape for the rescue of what still
remained of the language and for its restoration, so far as was practically possible. Classes
for the study of Irish were formed all over the country, folk-tales were collected, MSS. of
half-forgotten poets were disinterred and edited, the first scholarly and adequate dictionary
of modern Irish was compiled,[*] and plays, poems, and stories began to be written in the re-discovered
language. These activities were mostly organised and directed by the Gaelic League, a body
founded in 1893. One can easily imagine how a Prussian Government would have dealt with such
a movement, especially as a certain disaffected element in the country immediately began to
make use of it for its own ends. The British Government looked on not only calmly but approvingly.
When a general demand arose for the effective teaching of Irish in the elementary schools--though
at this time only about 21,000 old people were recorded in the census as ignorant of English--it
was at once agreed to. Irish had been permitted and paid for, though not markedly encouraged,
since 1879. It was now placed on a list of subjects which might be taught in school hours,
and extra fees were allotted for teaching it at the rate of ten shillings per pupil--twice
the amount allowed for French, Latin, or music. Grants are also made to certain colleges where
teachers of the language can be trained. All this began in 1901, and since that time over 12,000
pounds a year has been paid for Irish teaching directly from Imperial funds--about twice the
amount collected in the same period by voluntary contributions from Ireland and the rest of
the world. Nor is this the limit of the grant; it is limited only by the willingness of school
managers and parents to make use of it. Indirectly, the State is paying much more, for the
various professorships and lectureships in Irish subjects--language history, archaeology, and
economies--established under the National University account for well over 3,500 pounds a year.
Taking the direct expenditure on elementary education alone, the State has paid for Irish teaching
since 1879 a sum of no less than 209,000 pounds. It may therefore be claimed that in cultivating
her ancient language and native traditions, Ireland enjoys the fairest and most liberal treatment
ever accorded to a small nationality incorporated in a great Empire.

[Footnote *: By the Rev. P. S. Dineen; published by the Irish Tests Society.]

Reforms and Their Results

On the reforms which have been thus briefly sketched, one or two general remarks may be in place.

It has sometimes been contended that except by violence, or the menace of violence, Ireland
has never obtained anything from the English Legislature. It would be truer to say that she
has never obtained anything at all. England is not a sovereign Power, and does not administer
Irish affairs, nor even her own. What has been gained has been gained from the Legislature
of the United Kingdom, in which Irishmen, like every other race inhabiting that kingdom, have
had their full share of representation and of influence. And if in Ireland, as in other countries,
the necessity of reform has sometimes been made evident by disorder, it is wholly untrue to
say that this has been always or even usually the case. Land-reform in its earliest stages,
like trade unionism in England, was accompanied by disorder. But the greatest measure of Irish
land-reform--the Wyndham Act of 1903--was worked out on Irish soil by peaceable discussion
among the parties concerned, and Parliament acted at once upon their joint demand. It was in
precisely the same way that the Department of Agriculture came into being; nor did the great
measures of Local Government, of University education for Catholics, of the Labourers' Acts,
or the recognition extended to the Gaelic movement, owe their origin to any other cause than
the wholesome influences of reason and goodwill.

The internal condition of Ireland already shows a marked response to the altered state of things.
It is visible, as many travellers have noticed, in the face of the country; it is proved by
official records and statistics. Emigration has declined to its lowest point; education has
spread amongst the people. Irish emigrants, when they do leave their own shores, take higher
positions than ever before. A population of some four millions, largely composed of small farmers,
has lent forty-seven millions sterling to the Government; and, what is still more significant,
the deposits in Post Office Savings Banks have risen from six millions in 1896 to over thirteen
millions the year before the war. The new War Loan is reported to have had an extraordinary
success in Ireland. On the last day of subscription a single Dublin bank took in one million
sterling.[*] With some self-appointed champions of Ireland abuse of the British Empire is a
very popular amusement, but the Irish farmer and the Irish trader put their money in it, and
with it they stand to win or lose.

[Footnote *: The Times, Feb. 17, 1917.]

Irish agriculture, partly owing to climatic conditions and partly to the fact that Ireland
has a monopoly of the export of live cattle to England, has developed hitherto rather in the
direction of cattle-raising than of tillage; and cattle have increased since 1851 from three
million to over five million head, and sheep from two millions to three million six hundred
thousand. Poultry have nearly quadrupled in the same period. The gross railway receipts--another
significant symptom--were 2,750,000 pounds in 1886. In 1915 they had risen to 4,831,000 pounds.
The co-operative agricultural associations, in which Ireland has shown the way to the English-speaking
world, now number about 1,000, and do a trade of well over five millions a year. The thousands
of labourers' cottages which have sprung up, each with its plot of land, have been to the Irish
labourers what the Land Acts have been to the farmer--they have completely transformed his
economic status in the country.

Accompanying these symptoms of material progress, we have witnessed in recent years a striking
outburst of intellectual activity. Irish literature, in poetry and drama, has attracted the
attention of the whole world of culture, and exact and scholarly research in history and archaeology
have flourished and found audiences as they were never known to do in Ireland till now. This
has not been the work of any one section of the people, either in creed or in politics; but
the whole movement has been inspired by an Irish patriotism which no sane person regards as
conflicting in any degree with allegiance to the Empire under the shelter of which it has grown
and prospered.

The circumstances above set forth do not pretend to be the whole story about modern Ireland,
nor do they show that the millennium has arrived in that country. Apart from Home Rule, which
is outside our present field, much still remains to be done--there is elementary education
to be advanced, commercial facilities to be developed, land-purchase to be completed. But it
is contended that the real facts about Ireland are wholly and absurdly inconsistent with the
picture of that country which the friends of Germany circulate so industriously at the present
time. Ireland is not an oppressed and plundered nation, ground under the heel of a foreign
Power, and with her individual life deliberately stifled like that of Poland in the German
Empire. Only through ignorance or malice could such an illusion gain currency, and it needs
only the touch of reality--reality which every one can easily see or verify for himself--to
dispel it for ever from the mind of every candid inquirer.

