The various means by which the planters endeavored to keep the negroes on the estates are too
well known to require detail. Summary ejectments of the refractory from their dwellings, destruction
of their provision grounds, refusal to sell them land except at exorbitant prices, were all
tried. But there is too much land in Jamaica, and too few people, to make this game successful.
There were abundance of thrown-up estates, and especially of coffee properties in the mountains,
whose owners were only too glad to sell land at reasonable rates, and so this policy of coercion
simply wrought out an incurable alienation between a large part of the proprietors and a large
part of the peasantry. It must not be supposed, however, that the tyranny was all on one side.
If at emancipation there was an unprincipled strife on the part of the planters to get the
better of the negroes, there was an equally unprincipled and far more adroitly managed strife
on the part of the negroes to get the better of the planters. Long and close observation of
the emancipated black has satisfied the writer beyond all doubt that laziness is not one of
his prominent faults. Negligent, unthrifty, careless of time, and sufficiently disposed to
take his ease, he undoubtedly is. But every year of freedom has shown an advance, and the five
years and a half of the writer's residence showed so unmistakable an advance in regular industry,
carefulness of time, skill in laying out labor, and in the increase of the wants that stimulate
industry, that his early misgivings as to the capacity and disposition of the freed negro to
take care of himself were finally put to rest. But a disposition to take care of himself and
a disposition to be faithful to the interests of others are two very different things. At emancipation,
the negroes' stimulants to making money were very strong. In the first impulse of their zeal
they were everywhere erecting chapels and schools, raising large sums for the support of their
ministers and schoolmasters; they were everywhere building houses, buying land, and laying
the foundation of that settled well-being which time has continually made firmer. Then, too,
money was plentiful, sugar bore a high price, and, notwithstanding the churlishness of many
planters, more, perhaps, were eager to retain their hands by offering the highest possible
wages, and even higher in many cases than the estates would bear. Nor were the blacks at all
averse to making money. But though the Jamaica negro does not object to work, he dearly loves
to cheat. The keenest Yankee that ever skinned a flint, cannot approach him in trickiness.
This native trait has been sharpened to the utmost by the experience of slavery, which left
him with the profound conviction that 'Buckra'[7] was fair plunder. The poor fellow could not
be very severely blamed for thinking thus, for certainly he had been fair plunder for Buckra
from time immemorial. Accordingly, the first few years after emancipation appear on many estates
to have been passed in a continual struggle on the part of the negroes to see how much they
could get out of the planters and how little they could give in return. They knew they had
the whip hand of massa, and they were not slow to profit by the knowledge. They would saunter
to their work at eight or nine o'clock in the morning, dawdle through it with intensely provoking
unfaithfulness till three or four in the afternoon, and then would raise a prodigious uproar
if they were not paid as liberally as if they had done an honest day's work. The poor planter
meanwhile was at his wits' end. It was of no use to turn them off and hire another set, for,
like the fox in the fable, he knew he should only fare the worse. If the estate was large enough
to stand the strain for two or three years, and the manager was a man of self-control enough
to keep his temper, and firmness enough to persevere in a winnowing of the whole region round
about, treating them meanwhile with decency, and paying them honestly and promptly, he would
at last be able to get a set of trusty hands, and give all the negroes of the neighborhood
such an understanding of him that they would be ready, if they went to work for him, to leave
off cheating, and honestly earn their wages. A friend of mine took an abandoned estate in 1854,
and though for two or three years he was tortured like a bear at a stake, he succeeded at last,
by the most scrupulous fairness on his own part, and by not tolerating the least dishonesty
in a hand, in creating such a public sentiment among his laborers, that for their own credit
they would themselves expose the dishonesty of a comrade. Now, he has as many laborers, and
profitable ones, as he needs. But how many planters could be expected to have the principle
or patience to carry out such a course of discipline? The ruin of the estates, or rather the
acceleration of their inevitable ruin, is justly attributed, in large measure, to the planters,
to their imperious bearing toward the enfranchised blacks, to their harsh expedients for keeping
in dependence the large and much the best class of blacks, who wanted to become freeholders,
to the slackness and unfaithfulness with which the wages of the people were often paid, to
the debasing influences of the plantation, which drove off the more self-respecting, and to
the waste, dishonesty, and shortsightedness inevitable in the management of several hundred
estates mainly by middlemen. But on the other hand, it is not to be forgotten that the African
barbarian, brought a heathen from home, and plunged into the deeper darkness of a compulsory
heathenism, rigorously secluded by jealous cupidity from every ray of intellectual, and, so
far as possible, of spiritual light, liable to cruel punishment if he snatched a few hours
from his rest or his leisure to listen to the missionary, from whom alone he heard words of
heavenly comfort or of human sympathy, condemned to a lifetime of unrequited labor--it must
not be forgotten that he could not fail to come out from this school of supreme dishonesty
with its lessons so deeply imprinted on his mind that not one generation or two would eradicate
them, and that of all others he would be most inclined to practise them upon the white man,
whom, having always known as a plunderer, he was only too glad to have an opportunity to plunder
in return. Had Jamaica been occupied by a resident proprietary, attached by hereditary affection
and pride to the soil, elevated by family sanctities, connected by something like kindly ties
with their bondmen, and regarded by these in turn with something of affectionate fealty, in
that case, although it is not likely that the ruin of the plantations could have been averted,
it might have been delayed and mitigated. Mr. Underhill indeed goes further, and quotes the
testimony of an overseer in the west of the island, that he knew of no estate managed, since
emancipation, by a resident owner, which had not continued profitable. But a class of hirelings,
debased in morals by the cruel selfishness of their employers, tempted almost irresistibly
to unfaithfulness by the five thousand miles of ocean between them and their principals, and
to recklessness and tyranny by the uncertain tenure of their places, and connected with the
slaves by none but the grossest and most sordid ties--such management, in such a crisis, when
the ties of old subjection were suddenly dissolved, and the negro stood independent, and knowing
his independence, before his masters, would have ruined any country under the sun.

As to the present condition of the emancipated blacks, it is certain that the 7,340 freeholds
which had been acquired in 1840, two years after emancipation, have considerably increased
in number. I never heard of a negro freehold being given up,[8] while I did know of continual
purchases of land by the blacks, either to make new holdings or to extend old ones.

The parish of Hanover is one in which happily the various classes are in a good degree united
in feeling. The Hanover Society of Industry prepared a report about three years ago, quoted
by Mr. Underhill, which shows that in that parish about seven eighths of the people are on
holdings of their own, of which 891 consist of 1 acre, 431 of 2 acres, and 802 average 5-1/4
acres each. Each family on an average consists of 4-1/2 persons, and cultivates something over
an acre, securing an income of about £28. Those who own land are five times as numerous as
those who only hire it. The annual value of produce from the small holdings, estimated at £28
for each (£2 less than the society's estimate), is about £60,000. There are, besides, 29 estates
having 3,675 acres under cultivation, and employing 2,760 laborers, of whom two thirds are
females.[9] About one eighth of the population is at work upon them. These estates average
2,608 hogsheads of sugar, and 1,435 puncheons of rum. Of the whole area of the estates, 3,555
acres are in pasturage, and 28,552 acres inaccessible or ruinate. There are, besides, 151 small
properties of 20 acres and upward. In six districts, comprising about one fourth of the parish,
there were found 143 small cane mills, valued at £10 apiece, which turned out, in 1859, 455
barrels of sugar, worth about £900, to say nothing of the pork fattened on the refuse molasses.
One district of the six, constituting the quarter of the parish examined, produced, in 1857,
146 barrels; in 1858, 227 barrels; in 1859, 261 barrels.

This is a pretty fair picture of what may be expected in parishes where the whites show some
regard for the blacks; not very magnificent results, it is true, but showing the disposition
of the people to procure land of their own, and their increasing disposition to add to the
raising of provisions the cultivation of the great staple of the soil. The report of the Society
of Industry bears the following testimony to their character: 'The peasantry are, generally
speaking, industrious and well behaved, and are gradually becoming more comfortable in their
worldly circumstances. In the town of Lucea there has been a decided increase in the amount
of business within the last three years as compared with a number of years previously.' In
Hanover, in 1845, there were 70 estates in operation. In 1860 there were only 29. The planters
of this parish, however, do not lay the blame on the negroes, but attribute the decline to
the mountainous character of the parish, which made it unprofitable to continue the estates
after the great fall in the price of sugar.

Now the blacks of Hanover are just the same race as the rest of the negro population of the
island. The only difference is that the whites of that parish, instead of treating them with
contempt and neglect, have shown something of courtesy and care toward them. The numerous conversations
which Mr. Underhill reports with the owners and managers of successful estates show how simple
are the rules by which they secure success. To manifest a decent respect for the blacks, to
be firm, but temperate and fair in dealing with them, to use the best improvements in machinery,
and to exercise a strict economy of management--this appears to be the sum of the difference
between prosperous and unprosperous plantations, provided of course that both are equally well
situated for success.

Metcalfe, the writer's residence during most of his stay in Jamaica, is, like Hanover, a parish
of small freeholders, but unlike Hanover, the blacks and the few whites are not on good terms.
Excepting what has been done by missionaries, which is not a little, they are little indebted
to any but themselves for their prosperity. And as one charged with their religious instruction,
the writer can bear witness that for several years they have needed to be restrained from avarice
more than to be stimulated to industry. A clergyman, a friend of mine, humorously complained
that he had lost by stirring up his people to work, for that now they were so diligently employed
upon their own places, that he could get scarcely anybody to work for him. The average number
of acres owned by forty families, of which I made lists, is seven--a pretty fair estimate,
I should judge, of the whole; and seven acres in Jamaica is equivalent in productiveness to
a much larger amount here. One fourth had floored houses, and as large a proportion had sugar
mills. Many of the families have one or two horses, worth commonly from £5 to £12 apiece. Not
a few have mules, which are much more valuable; and nearly all the rest have donkeys. The proportion
of floored and glazed houses, some of them shingled, is steadily though not very rapidly increasing;
and I need not say that in that climate, and with their yet rudimentary ideas of comfort, a
floor of earth is no indication of indigence.

The holdings vary from one to forty acres, but are more commonly from three to six. Almost
every freeholder hires land besides, and a great deal of time is lost in going to distant pieces
of ground. The wants of the people have increased faster than they reckoned on, and the land
was bought up so rapidly around them that now they are subject to this disadvantage in making
new purchases. In St. Ann, the Baptist congregations alone spent £10,000 in a few years in
buying land.

The furniture of the poorer houses is miserably scanty; £3 would more than cover it. But the
better houses, now multiplying year by year, boast their four-post bedsteads, often of the
native mahogany, sometimes mahogany chairs, and corresponding articles. If a white family,
on removing, expose their furniture to sale, it is caught up by the people with eagerness at
almost any price asked. The very improvidence of the negroes stimulates their industry. They
are exceedingly litigious, and exceedingly ostentatious on the few grand occasions they enjoy.[10]
These luxuries, especially the former, cost them dear, but their very expense makes it the
more necessary to work to find the means of indulging in them. Remunerative labor is eagerly
sought after. The magnificent road now building through the island and traversing the parish
of Metcalfe, has a superfluity of workmen, notwithstanding the shameful unfairness with which
they have often been treated by the superintendents. I have known the people go in numbers
to an estate ten miles distant, and remain there for weeks, except on the Saturdays and Sundays,
away from their homes, working hard at digging and embanking, because they could secure one
and sixpence sterling a day. I have often had occasion to employ men on short jobs, and though
not unfrequently obliged to wait some time before securing a workman, I never suffered delay
because they were too idle, but because they were too busy to attend to me. During my residence
among them their progress in industry became too marked to be overlooked. However negligent
our observations, we could not fail to notice the increasing patches of cane in some quarters,
the extending provision grounds in others, the multiplying houses of the better sort, the earlier
hours of going to the field, and the later hours coming from it at night. A firm in Kingston,
accustomed to sell the implements of negro labor, found the demand for tools increasing faster
than they could supply it. And we were glad to find that they were becoming not merely more
industrious, but more skilful in their industry. A friend, who had much to do with them, assured
me that the young men greatly surpass their parents in forecast in the laying out of labor,
and had got over the miserliness shown by the old people in providing means for carrying it
on. He said a few years before he could not have sold a good tool, and now he could not sell
a bad one. An old negro, he remarked, would groan over a sixpence extra in buying a tool; the
young man would say: 'Come, let us have things in good style at the start, and our profits
will soon pay for them.' Not that habits of industry are so confirmed that there are not a
good many local and temporary relapses into the old careless ways. But the relapses are fitful,
the advance is steady. Of course, with growing means their wants rise, and increasing wants
in turn react happily upon their industry. The friend to whom I have several times referred,
and who, being both a missionary and a proprietor, is placed in a pretty impartial equipoise
of judgment, remarks that if some of those at home who imagine the Jamaica negro as lying lazily
in the sun, eating bananas, could see the bill of fare of a good many black men, and compare
it with what they were used to eat in time of slavery, they would probably be rather astonished.
His estate is not large, but I remember that he has been unable for several weeks in the height
of the sugar season to put up a barrel of sugar, on account of the people's buying it off in
small quantities as fast as it was made. The many families that have small mills, of course,
supply their own wants fully before they sell, and they commonly prefer selling the surplus
among their neighbors to taking it down to the exporters. Thus it appears that the diminution
in the exports of Jamaica is not wholly owing to the decrease of production. Mr. Underhill
says he was assured by an overseer that the present consumption of sugar by the people of Jamaica
was much greater proportionately than its use by the English, and there can be no doubt of
this. It was very different in slavery. Undoubtedly there is less produced, much less, for
production is diminished by the want of the ten thousand men a year that were used up to keep
it at its highest point. Naturally, freemen prefer their own lives to the extra hogsheads of
sugar that can be turned out by sacrificing them. It is also diminished by the steady fall
in the price of sugar, which has made a difference between 1815 and 1850 of seventy-five per
cent., rendering the inveterate extravagance of old management ruinous. It is diminished because
slavery ruined confidence and good will between owners and laborers. It is diminished because
an immense amount of labor has been diverted to the establishment of the homes, churches, and
schools of a prosperous yeomanry. It is diminished because the growth of family life, though
feeble and struggling, has withdrawn from the field wholly, or in part, thousands of women
and children. It is diminished because higher than bodily necessities now consume time that
was once rigorously denied to them. And lastly, it is diminished because the alienation caused
by slavery has thrown upon themselves thousands of the emancipated bondmen, formerly accustomed
to labor only as mechanical implements, to acquire skill, economy, and thrift by a long course
of untutored experiments. On the other hand, much that is now produced makes no figure in the
markets of the world, because it is consumed by the people themselves, no longer kept, for
the profit of masters, at the lowest point at which they could maintain an animal existence.
And not only do they consume so much, but they have enough left to buy from abroad whatever
their increased necessities cannot find at home. It was not so in the good old times. Then
the money that was made was sent to England to be spent by noble and gentle landlords there,
and little good did Jamaica get of it. So little indeed was the island thought of even by the
residents as a place to spend money on, so much as a place to get money in that was to be spent
in England, that, as Mr. Sewell remarks, good roads have begun to be built, to any considerable
extent, only since freedom. Forlorn as Kingston is, it was always forlorn; and not till slavery
was abolished did they think to introduce the water which is now supplied in such abundance
to the city. A rude profusion of luxury was all the planters aimed at till they could get home
to the refinements of the mother country. In a word, in time of slavery, Jamaica was simply
an aggregation of sugar and coffee mills, kept running by a stream of human blood. Now it is
a land whose inhabitants are free to live for themselves and for God, to enjoy the gifts of
His hand, and to send into the markets of the world, not a surplus which has cost one hundred
hecatombs of men each year, but a surplus which has cost no life, but whose rich fruits come
back to cheer and adorn thousands of lives. Commerce may have lost by the change, and there
may be some jewels the less in the coronets of English nobility, but we may be permitted to
believe that Christ and humanity have no reason to grieve.

It must not be thought, however, that estates are going down as rapidly now as formerly. Indeed,
for a few years, I question whether more have not been resumed than abandoned. In 1855 the
value of exports of the four staples, coffee, pimento, rum, and sugar, was £786,429; in 1856,
£814,659; in 1857, £1,141,472. I have not the statistics of the years following. This check
to the ruin of the estates is a matter of rejoicing, for the entire abandonment of the island
by the whites would be a great disaster. As Mr. Underhill well observes, the ascendency of
the white man is needed to temper the enmity between the browns and the blacks. The former,
who constitute about one fifth of the population, although sharing the wealth and intelligence
of the whites, are regarded with strong dislike by the blacks. Hayti shows how dangerous it
is to leave these two elements in a society without a moderating force. I cannot share the
pleasure with which some anticipate the complete Africanization of the West Indies. European
intelligence, European conscience, and European firmness of will are necessary to insure to
the blacks the permanence of those rich blessings which emancipation has bestowed. The black
man has the industry and is daily improving in the skill necessary to secure his material well-being;
but for very many years to come, it would be a most disastrous thing for him, hazarding the
loss of all that he has gained, to be deprived of either the religious or the political oversight
of the white race. The planters of Jamaica are not distinguished by a very rigid morality or
a very severe integrity, but their withdrawal would inflict incurable harm on intelligence,
order, industry, and civilization. They may be contemptuously indifferent to the moral and
intellectual improvement of the blacks, but they have no longer a lively interest in opposing
it. By this time they are gradually becoming convinced that the spirit of slavery cannot be
maintained when its power is gone, and are growing disposed, so far as they have dealings with
the blacks, to deal with them on more equal terms. Bare justice may be the most they are willing
to accord, but even that is a great gain. The journals in their interest no longer lavish on
the freeholding blacks the abuse with which they once teemed, even after the writer went to
the island. The planters are willing to admit, like those of Westmoreland in an appeal to the
Assembly in behalf of immigration, 'that they do not find fault with the difficulty of getting
labor, which is a necessary result of the easy acquisition of land,' The more candid are willing
to say, as I heard a gentleman of their class observe: 'We do not complain of the negroes;
they have done as well for themselves perhaps as any people would. But just because they are
doing so well for themselves, they cannot be depended on to do well for us.' Hence the call
for immigrant laborers; a just and reasonable call, if only the immigration is conducted with
that rigid and conscientious care for the comfort of the immigrants for which Mr. Sewell gives
the government of Trinidad credit, and if it is really voluntary. The fear that it will injure
the negro, or that he dreads it, is wholly baseless. The negroes have remained utterly indifferent
to the whole agitation of the subject, and are on perfectly amiable terms with the few coolies
already introduced. Indeed it will be rather for their interest, as a negro remarked to Mr.
Underhill, by giving them a better sale for their produce. The coolies now in the island appear
to have done well. And the danger of overcrowding the population on a land teeming with tropical
plenty, whose area of 6,400 square miles is occupied by but 441,000 inhabitants, is not a very
imminent one, from any number within the means of the colony to introduce. And on the ability
to procure foreign labor very much depends the hope of reviving the planting prosperity of
Jamaica on a sounder basis, and in such a degree as is compatible with the substantial good
of the whole population. It is true the population, relieved from the dreadful waste of slavery,
is increasing. The census of 1844 showed a population of 377,433. That of 1861 showed one of
441,264, an increase of 63,831 in seventeen years. The immigration of coolies during that time
has been between 18,000 and 20,000; the decrease of the whites, 3,000. The net increase by
immigration then has been at the most 17,000, leaving 47,000 as the natural increase, or 12
per cent., in seventeen years. This is what remains after two terrible visitations of cholera,
and one of small pox, all within eleven years, which together are computed to have swept off
40,000 persons. The increase would doubtless be much greater but for the loose living and careless
habits of the negroes, and their almost entire destitution of medical attendance. There are
now, it appears, but fifty qualified practitioners in the island, with no hopes of reinforcement.

The results of this census were very gratifying, and very unexpected. Such scanty means are
there, ordinarily, of knowing the true condition of the country, that it was a prevailing impression
that the population was decreasing. Had slavery continued, the present population would probably
have been about 275,000. The difference of 165,000 in favor of freedom tells its own story.
But the present necessities of the estates call for a more speedy augmentation of the laboring
force than is furnished by natural increase alone.

