SAUNTERINGS

By Charles Dudley Warner

MISAPPREHENSIONS CORRECTED

I should not like to ask an indulgent and idle public to saunter about with me under a misapprehension.
It would be more agreeable to invite it to go nowhere than somewhere; for almost every one
has been somewhere, and has written about it. The only compromise I can suggest is, that we
shall go somewhere, and not learn anything about it. The instinct of the public against any
thing like information in a volume of this kind is perfectly justifiable; and the reader will
perhaps discover that this is illy adapted for a text-book in schools, or for the use of competitive
candidates in the civil-service examinations.

Years ago, people used to saunter over the Atlantic, and spend weeks in filling journals with
their monotonous emotions. That is all changed now, and there is a misapprehension that the
Atlantic has been practically subdued; but no one ever gets beyond the "rolling forties" without
having this impression corrected.

I confess to have been deceived about this Atlantic, the roughest and windiest of oceans. If
you look at it on the map, it does n't appear to be much, and, indeed, it is spoken of as a
ferry. What with the eight and nine days' passages over it, and the laying of the cable, which
annihilates distance, I had the impression that its tedious three thousand and odd miles had
been, somehow, partly done away with; but they are all there. When one has sailed a thousand
miles due east and finds that he is then nowhere in particular, but is still out, pitching
about on an uneasy sea, under an inconstant sky, and that a thousand miles more will not make
any perceptible change, he begins to have some conception of the unconquerable ocean. Columbus
rises in my estimation.

I was feeling uncomfortable that nothing had been done for the memory of Christopher Columbus,
when I heard some months ago that thirty-seven guns had been fired off for him in Boston. It
is to be hoped that they were some satisfaction to him. They were discharged by countrymen
of his, who are justly proud that he should have been able, after a search of only a few weeks,
to find a land where the hand-organ had never been heard. The Italians, as a people, have not
profited much by this discovery; not so much, indeed, as the Spaniards, who got a reputation
by it which even now gilds their decay. That Columbus was born in Genoa entitles the Italians
to celebrate the great achievement of his life; though why they should discharge exactly thirty-seven
guns I do not know. Columbus did not discover the United States: that we partly found ourselves,
and partly bought, and gouged the Mexicans out of. He did not even appear to know that there
was a continent here. He discovered the West Indies, which he thought were the East; and ten
guns would be enough for them. It is probable that he did open the way to the discovery of
the New World. If he had waited, however, somebody else would have discovered it,--perhaps
some Englishman; and then we might have been spared all the old French and Spanish wars. Columbus
let the Spaniards into the New World; and their civilization has uniformly been a curse to
it. If he had brought Italians, who neither at that time showed, nor since have shown, much
inclination to come, we should have had the opera, and made it a paying institution by this
time. Columbus was evidently a person who liked to sail about, and did n't care much for consequences.

Perhaps it is not an open question whether Columbus did a good thing in first coming over here,
one that we ought to celebrate with salutes and dinners. The Indians never thanked him, for
one party. The Africans had small ground to be gratified for the market he opened for them.
Here are two continents that had no use for him. He led Spain into a dance of great expectations,
which ended in her gorgeous ruin. He introduced tobacco into Europe, and laid the foundation
for more tracts and nervous diseases than the Romans had in a thousand years. He introduced
the potato into Ireland indirectly; and that caused such a rapid increase of population, that
the great famine was the result, and an enormous emigration to New York--hence Tweed and the
constituency of the Ring. Columbus is really responsible for New York. He is responsible for
our whole tremendous experiment of democracy, open to all comers, the best three in five to
win. We cannot yet tell how it is coming out, what with the foreigners and the communists and
the women. On our great stage we are playing a piece of mingled tragedy and comedy, with what
denouement we cannot yet say. If it comes out well, we ought to erect a monument to Christopher
as high as the one at Washington expects to be; and we presume it is well to fire a salute
occasionally to keep the ancient mariner in mind while we are trying our great experiment.
And this reminds me that he ought to have had a naval salute.

There is something almost heroic in the idea of firing off guns for a man who has been stone-dead
for about four centuries. It must have had a lively and festive sound in Boston, when the meaning
of the salute was explained. No one could hear those great guns without a quicker beating of
the heart in gratitude to the great discoverer who had made Boston possible. We are trying
to "realize" to ourselves the importance of the 12th of October as an anniversary of our potential
existence. If any one wants to see how vivid is the gratitude to Columbus, let him start out
among our business-houses with a subscription-paper to raise money for powder to be exploded
in his honor. And yet Columbus was a well-meaning man; and if he did not discover a perfect
continent, he found the only one that was left.

Columbus made voyaging on the Atlantic popular, and is responsible for much of the delusion
concerning it. Its great practical use in this fast age is to give one an idea of distance
and of monotony.

I have listened in my time with more or less pleasure to very rollicking songs about the sea,
the flashing brine, the spray and the tempest's roar, the wet sheet and the flowing sea, a
life on the ocean wave, and all the rest of it. To paraphrase a land proverb, let me write
the songs of the sea, and I care not who goes to sea and sings 'em. A square yard of solid
ground is worth miles of the pitching, turbulent stuff. Its inability to stand still for one
second is the plague of it. To lie on deck when the sun shines, and swing up and down, while
the waves run hither and thither and toss their white caps, is all well enough to lie in your
narrow berth and roll from side to side all night long; to walk uphill to your state-room door,
and, when you get there, find you have got to the bottom of the hill, and opening the door
is like lifting up a trap-door in the floor; to deliberately start for some object, and, before
you know it, to be flung against it like a bag of sand; to attempt to sit down on your sofa,
and find you are sitting up; to slip and slide and grasp at everything within reach, and to
meet everybody leaning and walking on a slant, as if a heavy wind were blowing, and the laws
of gravitation were reversed; to lie in your berth, and hear all the dishes on the cabin-table
go sousing off against the wall in a general smash; to sit at table holding your soup-plate
with one hand, and watching for a chance to put your spoon in when it comes high tide on your
side of the dish; to vigilantly watch, the lurch of the heavy dishes while holding your glass
and your plate and your knife and fork, and not to notice it when Brown, who sits next you,
gets the whole swash of the gravy from the roast-beef dish on his light-colored pantaloons,
and see the look of dismay that only Brown can assume on such an occasion; to see Mrs. Brown
advance to the table, suddenly stop and hesitate, two waiters rush at her, with whom she struggles
wildly, only to go down in a heap with them in the opposite corner; to see her partially recover,
but only to shoot back again through her state-room door, and be seen no more;--all this is
quite pleasant and refreshing if you are tired of land, but you get quite enough of it in a
couple of weeks. You become, in time, even a little tired of the Jew who goes about wishing
"he vas a veek older;" and the eccentric man, who looks at no one, and streaks about the cabin
and on deck, without any purpose, and plays shuffle-board alone, always beating himself, and
goes on the deck occasionally through the sky-light instead of by the cabin door, washes himself
at the salt-water pump, and won't sleep in his state-room, saying he is n't used to sleeping
in a bed,--as if the hard narrow, uneasy shelf of a berth was anything like a bed!--and you
have heard at last pretty nearly all about the officers, and their twenty and thirty years
of sea-life, and every ocean and port on the habitable globe where they have been. There comes
a day when you are quite ready for land, and the scream of the "gull" is a welcome sound.

Even the sailors lose the vivacity of the first of the voyage. The first two or three days
we had their quaint and half-doleful singing in chorus as they pulled at the ropes: now they
are satisfied with short ha-ho's, and uncadenced grunts. It used to be that the leader sang,
in ever-varying lines of nonsense, and the chorus struck in with fine effect, like this:

  "I wish I was in Liverpool town.   Handy-pan, handy O!
  O captain! where 'd you ship your crew   Handy-pan, handy O!
  Oh! pull away, my bully crew,   Handy-pan, handy O!"

There are verses enough of this sort to reach across the Atlantic; and they are not the worst
thing about it either, or the most tedious. One learns to respect this ocean, but not to love
it; and he leaves it with mingled feelings about Columbus.

And now, having crossed it,--a fact that cannot be concealed,--let us not be under the misapprehension
that we are set to any task other than that of sauntering where it pleases us.

PARIS AND LONDON

SURFACE CONTRASTS OF PARIS AND LONDON

I wonder if it is the Channel? Almost everything is laid to the Channel: it has no friends.
The sailors call it the nastiest bit of water in the world. All travelers anathematize it.
I have now crossed it three times in different places, by long routes and short ones, and have
always found it as comfortable as any sailing anywhere, sailing being one of the most tedious
and disagreeable inventions of a fallen race. But such is not the usual experience: most people
would make great sacrifices to avoid the hour and three quarters in one of those loathsome
little Channel boats,--they always call them loathsome, though I did n't see but they are as
good as any boats. I have never found any boat that hasn't a detestable habit of bobbing round.
The Channel is hated: and no one who has much to do with it is surprised at the projects for
bridging it and for boring a hole under it; though I have scarcely ever met an Englishman who
wants either done,--he does not desire any more facile communication with the French than now
exists. The traditional hatred may not be so strong as it was, but it is hard to say on which
side is the most ignorance and contempt of the other.

It must be the Channel: that is enough to produce a physical disagreement even between the
two coasts; and there cannot be a greater contrast in the cultivated world than between the
two lands lying so close to each other; and the contrast of their capitals is even more decided,--I
was about to say rival capitals, but they have not enough in common to make them rivals. I
have lately been over to London for a week, going by the Dieppe and New Haven route at night,
and returning by another; and the contrasts I speak of were impressed upon me anew. Everything
here in and about Paris was in the green and bloom of spring, and seemed to me very lovely;
but my first glance at an English landscape made it all seem pale and flat. We went up from
New Haven to London in the morning, and feasted our eyes all the way. The French foliage is
thin, spindling, sparse; the grass is thin and light in color--in contrast. The English trees
are massive, solid in substance and color; the grass is thick, and green as emerald; the turf
is like the heaviest Wilton carpet. The whole effect is that of vegetable luxuriance and solidity,
as it were a tropical luxuriance, condensed and hardened by northern influences. If my eyes
remember well, the French landscapes are more like our own, in spring tone, at least; but the
English are a revelation to us strangers of what green really is, and what grass and trees
can be. I had been told that we did well to see England before going to the Continent, for
it would seem small and only pretty afterwards. Well, leaving out Switzerland, I have seen
nothing in that beauty which satisfies the eye and wins the heart to compare with England in
spring. When we annex it to our sprawling country which lies out-doors in so many climates,
it will make a charming little retreat for us in May and June, a sort of garden of delight,
whence we shall draw our May butter and our June roses. It will only be necessary to put it
under glass to make it pleasant the year round.

When we passed within the hanging smoke of London town, threading our way amid numberless railway
tracks, sometimes over a road and sometimes under one, now burrowing into the ground, and now
running along among the chimney-pots,--when we came into the pale light and the thickening
industry of a London day, we could but at once contrast Paris. Unpleasant weather usually reduces
places to an equality of disagreeableness. But Paris, with its wide streets, light, handsome
houses, gay windows and smiling little parks and fountains, keeps up a tolerably pleasant aspect,
let the weather do its worst. But London, with its low, dark, smutty brick houses and insignificant
streets, settles down hopelessly into the dumps when the weather is bad. Even with the sun
doing its best on the eternal cloud of smoke, it is dingy and gloomy enough, and so dirty,
after spick-span, shining Paris. And there is a contrast in the matter of order and system;
the lack of both in London is apparent. You detect it in public places, in crowds, in the streets.
The "social evil" is bad enough in its demonstrations in Paris: it is twice as offensive in
London. I have never seen a drunken woman in Paris: I saw many of them in the daytime in London.
I saw men and women fight in the streets,--a man kick and pound a woman; and nobody interfered.
There is a brutal streak in the Anglo-Saxon, I fear,--a downright animal coarseness, that does
not exhibit itself the other side of the Channel. It is a proverb, that the London policemen
are never at hand. The stout fellows with their clubs look as if they might do service; but
what a contrast they are to the Paris sergents de ville! The latter, with his dress-coat, cocked
hat, long rapier, white gloves, neat, polite, attentive, alert,--always with the manner of
a jesuit turned soldier,--you learn to trust very much, if not respect; and you feel perfectly
secure that he will protect you, and give you your rights in any corner of Paris. It does look
as if he might slip that slender rapier through your body in a second, and pull it out and
wipe it, and not move a muscle; but I don't think he would do it unless he were directly ordered
to. He would not be likely to knock you down and drag you out, in mistake for the rowdy who
was assaulting you.

A great contrast between the habits of the people of London and Paris is shown by their eating
and drinking. Paris is brilliant with cafes: all the world frequents them to sip coffee (and
too often absinthe), read the papers, and gossip over the news; take them away, as all travelers
know, and Paris would not know itself. There is not a cafe in London: instead of cafes, there
are gin-mills; instead of light wine, there is heavy beer. The restaurants and restaurant life
are as different as can be. You can get anything you wish in Paris: you can live very cheaply
or very dearly, as you like. The range is more limited in London. I do not fancy the usual
run of Paris restaurants. You get a great deal for your money, in variety and quantity; but
you don't exactly know what it is: and in time you tire of odds and ends, which destroy your
hunger without exactly satisfying you. For myself, after a pretty good run of French cookery
(and it beats the world for making the most out of little), when I sat down again to what the
eminently respectable waiter in white and black calls "a dinner off the Joint, sir," with what
belongs to it, and ended up with an attack on a section of a cheese as big as a bass-drum,
not to forget a pewter mug of amber liquid, I felt as if I had touched bottom again,--got something
substantial, had what you call a square meal. The English give you the substantials, and better,
I believe, than any other people. Thackeray used to come over to Paris to get a good dinner
now and then. I have tried his favorite restaurant here, the cuisine of which is famous far
beyond the banks of the Seine; but I think if he, hearty trencher-man that he was, had lived
in Paris, he would have gone to London for a dinner oftener than he came here.

And as for a lunch,--this eating is a fascinating theme,--commend me to a quiet inn of England.
We happened to be out at Kew Gardens the other afternoon. You ought to go to Kew, even if the
Duchess of Cambridge is not at home. There is not such a park out of England, considering how
beautiful the Thames is there. What splendid trees it has! the horse-chestnut, now a mass of
pink-and-white blossoms, from its broad base, which rests on the ground, to its high rounded
dome; the hawthorns, white and red, in full flower; the sweeps and glades of living green,--turf
on which you walk with a grateful sense of drawing life directly from the yielding, bountiful
earth,--a green set out and heightened by flowers in masses of color (a great variety of rhododendrons,
for one thing), to say nothing of magnificent greenhouses and outlying flower-gardens. Just
beyond are Richmond Hill and Hampton Court, and five or six centuries of tradition and history
and romance. Before you enter the garden, you pass the green. On one side of it are cottages,
and on the other the old village church and its quiet churchyard. Some boys were playing cricket
on the sward, and children were getting as intimate with the turf and the sweet earth as their
nurses would let them. We turned into a little cottage, which gave notice of hospitality for
a consideration; and were shown, by a pretty maid in calico, into an upper room,--a neat, cheerful,
common room, with bright flowers in the open windows, and white muslin curtains for contrast.
We looked out on the green and over to the beautiful churchyard, where one of England's greatest
painters, Gainsborough, lies in rural repose. It is nothing to you, who always dine off the
best at home, and never encounter dirty restaurants and snuffy inns, or run the gauntlet of
Continental hotels, every meal being an experiment of great interest, if not of danger, to
say that this brisk little waitress spread a snowy cloth, and set thereon meat and bread and
butter and a salad: that conveys no idea to your mind. Because you cannot see that the loaf
of wheaten bread was white and delicate, and full of the goodness of the grain; or that the
butter, yellow as a guinea, tasted of grass and cows, and all the rich juices of the verdant
year, and was not mere flavorless grease; or that the cuts of roast beef, fat and lean, had
qualities that indicate to me some moral elevation in the cattle,--high-toned, rich meat; or
that the salad was crisp and delicious, and rather seemed to enjoy being eaten, at least, did
n't disconsolately wilt down at the prospect, as most salad does. I do not wonder that Walter
Scott dwells so much on eating, or lets his heroes pull at the pewter mugs so often. Perhaps
one might find a better lunch in Paris, but he surely couldn't find this one.

PARIS IN MAY--FRENCH GIRLS--THE EMPEROR AT LONGCHAMPS

It was the first of May when we came up from Italy. The spring grew on us as we advanced north;
vegetation seemed further along than it was south of the Alps. Paris was bathed in sunshine,
wrapped in delicious weather, adorned with all the delicate colors of blushing spring. Now
the horse-chestnuts are all in bloom and so is the hawthorn; and in parks and gardens there
are rows and alleys of trees, with blossoms of pink and of white; patches of flowers set in
the light green grass; solid masses of gorgeous color, which fill all the air with perfume;
fountains that dance in the sunlight as if just released from prison; and everywhere the soft
suffusion of May. Young maidens who make their first communion go into the churches in processions
of hundreds, all in white, from the flowing veil to the satin slipper; and I see them everywhere
for a week after the ceremony, in their robes of innocence, often with bouquets of flowers,
and attended by their friends; all concerned making it a joyful holiday, as it ought to be.
I hear, of course, with what false ideas of life these girls are educated; how they are watched
before marriage; how the marriage is only one of arrangement, and what liberty they eagerly
seek afterwards. I met a charming Paris lady last winter in Italy, recently married, who said
she had never been in the Louvre in her life; never had seen any of the magnificent pictures
or world-famous statuary there, because girls were not allowed to go there, lest they should
see something that they ought not to see. I suppose they look with wonder at the young American
girls who march up to anything that ever was created, with undismayed front.

Another Frenchwoman, a lady of talent and the best breeding, recently said to a friend, in
entire unconsciousness that she was saying anything remarkable, that, when she was seventeen,
her great desire was to marry one of her uncles (a thing not very unusual with the papal dispensation),
in order to keep all the money in the family! That was the ambition of a girl of seventeen.

I like, on these sunny days, to look into the Luxembourg Garden: nowhere else is the eye more
delighted with life and color. In the afternoon, especially, it is a baby-show worth going
far to see. The avenues are full of children, whose animated play, light laughter, and happy
chatter, and pretty, picturesque dress, make a sort of fairy grove of the garden; and all the
nurses of that quarter bring their charges there, and sit in the shade, sewing, gossiping,
and comparing the merits of the little dears. One baby differs from another in glory, I suppose;
but I think on such days that they are all lovely, taken in the mass, and all in sweet harmony
with the delicious atmosphere, the tender green, and the other flowers of spring. A baby can't
do better than to spend its spring days in the Luxembourg Garden.

There are several ways of seeing Paris besides roaming up and down before the blazing shop-windows,
and lounging by daylight or gaslight along the crowded and gay boulevards; and one of the best
is to go to the Bois de Boulogne on a fete-day, or when the races are in progress. This famous
wood is very disappointing at first to one who has seen the English parks, or who remembers
the noble trees and glades and avenues of that at Munich. To be sure, there is a lovely little
lake and a pretty artificial cascade, and the roads and walks are good; but the trees are all
saplings, and nearly all the "wood" is a thicket of small stuff. Yet there is green grass that
one can roll on, and there is a grove of small pines that one can sit under. It is a pleasant
place to drive toward evening; but its great attraction is the crowd there. All the principal
avenues are lined with chairs, and there people sit to watch the streams of carriages.

I went out to the Bois the other day, when there were races going on; not that I went to the
races, for I know nothing about them, per se, and care less. All running races are pretty much
alike. You see a lean horse, neck and tail, flash by you, with a jockey in colors on his back;
and that is the whole of it. Unless you have some money on it, in the pool or otherwise, it
is impossible to raise any excitement. The day I went out, the Champs Elysees, on both sides,
its whole length, was crowded with people, rows and ranks of them sitting in chairs and on
benches. The Avenue de l'Imperatrice, from the Arc de l'Etoile to the entrance of the Bois,
was full of promenaders; and the main avenues of the Bois, from the chief entrance to the race-course,
were lined with people, who stood or sat, simply to see the passing show. There could not have
been less than ten miles of spectators, in double or triple rows, who had taken places that
afternoon to watch the turnouts of fashion and rank. These great avenues were at all times,
from three till seven, filled with vehicles; and at certain points, and late in the day, there
was, or would have been anywhere else except in Paris, a jam. I saw a great many splendid horses,
but not so many fine liveries as one will see on a swell-day in London. There was one that
I liked. A handsome carriage, with one seat, was drawn by four large and elegant black horses,
the two near horses ridden by postilions in blue and silver,--blue roundabouts, white breeches
and topboots, a round-topped silver cap, and the hair, or wig, powdered, and showing just a
little behind. A footman mounted behind, seated, wore the same colors; and the whole establishment
was exceedingly tonnish.

The race-track (Longchamps, as it is called), broad and beautiful springy turf, is not different
from some others, except that the inclosed oblong space is not flat, but undulating just enough
for beauty, and so framed in by graceful woods, and looked on by chateaux and upland forests,
that I thought I had never seen a sweeter bit of greensward. St. Cloud overlooks it, and villas
also regard it from other heights. The day I saw it, the horse-chestnuts were in bloom; and
there was, on the edges, a cloud of pink and white blossoms, that gave a soft and charming
appearance to the entire landscape. The crowd in the grounds, in front of the stands for judges,
royalty, and people who are privileged or will pay for places, was, I suppose, much as usual,--an
excited throng of young and jockey-looking men, with a few women-gamblers in their midst, making
up the pool; a pack of carriages along the circuit of the track, with all sorts of people,
except the very good; and conspicuous the elegantly habited daughters of sin and satin, with
servants in livery, as if they had been born to it; gentlemen and ladies strolling about, or
reclining on the sward, and a refreshment-stand in lively operation.

When the bell rang, we all cleared out from the track, and I happened to get a position by
the railing. I was looking over to the Pavilion, where I supposed the Emperor to be, when the
man next to me cried, "Voila!" and, looking up, two horses brushed right by my face, of which
I saw about two tails and one neck, and they were gone. Pretty soon they came round again,
and one was ahead, as is apt to be the case; and somebody cried, "Bully for Therise!" or French
to that effect, and it was all over. Then we rushed across to the Emperor's Pavilion, except
that I walked with all the dignity consistent with rapidity, and there, in the midst of his
suite, sat the Man of December, a stout, broad, and heavy-faced man as you know, but a man
who impresses one with a sense of force and purpose,--sat, as I say, and looked at us through
his narrow, half-shut eyes, till he was satisfied that I had got his features through my glass,
when he deliberately arose and went in.

All Paris was out that day,--it is always out, by the way, when the sun shines, and in whatever
part of the city you happen to be; and it seemed to me there was a special throng clear down
to the gate of the Tuileries, to see the Emperor and the rest of us come home. He went round
by the Rue Rivoli, but I walked through the gardens. The soldiers from Africa sat by the gilded
portals, as usual,--aliens, and yet always with the port of conquerors here in Paris. Their
nonchalant indifference and soldierly bearing always remind me of the sort of force the Emperor
has at hand to secure his throne. I think the blouses must look askance at these satraps of
the desert. The single jet fountain in the basin was springing its highest,--a quivering pillar
of water to match the stone shaft of Egypt which stands close by. The sun illuminated it, and
threw a rainbow from it a hundred feet long, upon the white and green dome of chestnut-trees
near. When I was farther down the avenue, I had the dancing column of water, the obelisk, and
the Arch of Triumph all in line, and the rosy sunset beyond.

AN IMPERIAL REVIEW

The Prince and Princess of Wales came up to Paris in the beginning of May, from Italy, Egypt,
and alongshore, stayed at a hotel on the Place Vendome, where they can get beef that is not
horse, and is rare, and beer brewed in the royal dominions, and have been entertained with
cordiality by the Emperor. Among the spectacles which he has shown them is one calculated to
give them an idea of his peaceful intentions,-a grand review of cavalry and artillery at the
Bois de Boulogne. It always seems to me a curious comment upon the state of our modern civilization,
when one prince visits another here in Europe, the first thing that the visited does, by way
of hospitality is to get out his troops, and show his rival how easily he could "lick" him,
if it came to that.

It is a little puerile. At any rate, it is an advance upon the old fashion of getting up a
joust at arms, and inviting the guest to come out and have his head cracked in a friendly way.

