Sergeant John Little had charge of the squad, containing among others Alex Dearing, Ed King,
Rufe Prince, Dave Jones and other names not remembered. It was a sort of picnic. The men bought
chicken, butter and butter milk and got the farmers women to cook for them. Dave Jones bought
a bee gum of honey and had a time getting out the honey, with all the crowd assisting. Then
again it was good for sore eyes to loaf around in a farmer's front yard and his door steps
and see his wife and daughters flitting about, and every now and then get to talk to them a
little. Calico dresses and sun bonnets perhaps, but they were a treat to the soldiers, who
were tired of seeing nothing but men for so long. The detail put off having to pass the front
of that battery so long as they could and had their frolic out. But they had to pass that point
in daylight, in order to have time to get over the balance of that mountain road, with each
animal loaded in the manner it was. There was no way of dodging it. There were rocks and woods
and cuts in the road, that would protect on each side, but sight in front of the battery for
perhaps forty yards or more on the road was cut out of the precipice, and for that distance
it was a "run of the gauntlet." Arriving at the place, the men crowded the cut on the west
side of each man on his animal made ready and as his name was called, at perhaps 30 yards interval,
he made his rush as fast as he could persuade his animal to go.

The enemy could only take pot shots at one animal and not at a crowd. Those Yankees surely
had sport, but they did not get to fire each of their four guns many times before all were
past the bald place without the loss of man or animal. They yelled and we yelled back that
they could not shoot worth "shucks." They shelled the woods along the route, but our men were
out of sight and did not tarry till each reached some cover, when he halted for them to ease
up, which they soon did not being able to see anything to shoot at. They had their fun target
shooting. Our boys had the fun of dodging. As there were no casualties, it could always be
looked back upon, with a sportsman point of view, as one of our funny episodes. A few days
thereafter camp was moved over beyond the top of Missionary Ridge, about Oct. 23rd into a woodland
location, with plenty of spring and creek water nearby. To soldiers in camp a living spring
was a blessing, as it was the only security against contamination and consequent disease.

Supposing the camp might turn out to be winter quarters, a long shelter was built to cover
about 100 horses, with troughs made from hollow logs and racks for long forage. The men began
to arrange themselves in congenial "messes" and to build pole cabins with fire places of sticks
and mud plaster, and "bunks."

At the camp a lot of boxes of provisions and clothing arrived in charge of Mrs. Jane Durrett
from Tuscaloosa for different Tuscaloosa boys. This good patriotic lady would leave her home
and husband on a Tuscaloosa County farm and take charge of batches of supplies, provisions,
clothing, etc., for officers or men. She saw to it, that every box was delivered to the soldier
to whom it was sent. No man could have done this work as she did it. Neither the pompous little
Lieutenant in charge of a provost guard, nor train guard, nor commanders of posts, nor the
General in command of an army had any terrors for her. They were all means to be lent to the
service that she was on. In the car, where her boxes went, she went, when she got with them,
as far as railroad could carry her goods, her quick Irish wit and flattering tongue would soon
get an order from some competent artillery for wagons and drivers and an ambulance for herself,
to take her goods to their destination, and she delivered them in person to whomsoever they
had been sent, officers or privates. She served one equally as heartily as the other. Of course
she had to rough it, and see much hardship and exposure, but she gloried in so serving her
country. She had several sons in the army doing their duty also, as became men from such stock.
Jim Bobbett, my body servant, Rube, Alex Dearing's man and some of the other company darkies
had also been south on the railroad looking out for supplies. Our messenger got a big fat gobbler,
we cooked him in a big three legged cast iron wash pot. Mr. Menander Rosser reminds me that
Dr. James T. Searcy, (now Superintendent of the Alabama Bryce Hospital for the Insane) was
boss of that job, he put in good time for some days previous to the feast in stuffing corn
meal dough down that turkey's throat, to make sure of his being good and fat at the proper
time. Can you see the picture, Searcy on a log, gobbler between his knees, left forefinger
and thumb prying open the gobbler's mouth, while the balance of his left hand kept the neck
straight up; right hand rolling up enormous bread pills and forcing them into the gobbler's
mouth, and manipulating them down to the craw. Henry Donoho holding the bread pan assisting
in rolling the pills. Several others of the mess, much interested in the operation, scattered
around. We first parboiled him till nearly tender, with an oven lid covering the pot. Then
we filled him with biscuit and hard-tack crumbs and pieces of fat bacon, and cut onions and
sage and the chopped gizzard and liver, all mixed; boiling down the water meanwhile to a rich
gravy. Then we put the stuffed turkey in again, put on the cast oven lid heaping red hot oak
and hickory coals on top and under the pot. If the reader knows something about cooking, it
is plain that this gobbler was cooked to a delightful brown, brown all over, with the juice
oozing out of his skin. And that turkey was not all of that dinner. Out of the boxes from home
came material for mashed potatoes, boiled rice, cowpeas, bread and biscuit and butter, and
dried peaches for a big "biled cat" for dessert with butter and brown sugar for sauce. "Biled
Cat"! Eat "Biled Cat!" Yes, indeed! Soldiers thought "biled cat" good enough for any body.
Its composition was biscuit dough, rolled out into a sheet one-fourth of an inch thick, spread
with stewed dried apples or peaches, seasoned with sugar and spice and everything nice, to
another half inch in thickness; rolled up into a long roll and then rolled up in a clean towel
or flour sack, tied up and dropped into a pot of boiling water and boiled until done. When
done the cloth unrolled and the contents cut into sections one-half an inch thick and deluged
with "butter and sugar" sauce, it delightfully filled all the spaces and perhaps somewhat distended
a Confederate soldier's stomach, who had already enjoyed a real good turkey and fixings dinner.
What a change that was from the regular daily diet of corn pone and rancid bacon, boiled with
cowpeas containing about three black weevils to the pea. As some declared most of the peas
were already seasoned enough without any bacon. At such times soldiers would live lavishly.
They knew, "we are here today, where we shall be tomorrow, no one can tell." We enjoyed our
good things while we could. When they were gone, we would get back to cornbread and bacon or
beef hash or boiled beef as best we could, and very often the transition "was awful sudden."
In winter quarters, we might be saving, and make good things last as long as possible but in
intervals of a campaign, we would live whilst we could and "take no thought for the morrow."

While on the subject of "grub," who of us does not think of our efficient "boss" cook, Tom
Potts? Can not each of us see him now in this camp behind Missionary Ridge. There he sits day
and night (except perhaps 9:00 or 10:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m. when he sleeps) in his split bottom
chair, in front of the center pole of his tent. Behind him his wall tent, each side piled up
with boxes and barrels and sacks of meal, flour, salt, sugar, bacon, the only man in camp who
always has a good tent because it is absolutely a necessity. A tall, slouch-shouldered man,
wide brim felt hat, black hair almost to his shoulders, complexion very dark, long black moustache
and whiskers and eternally, when awake, a big black meerschaum in his mouth, puffing away.
Very quiet, slow soft spon, he occasionally gives some directions about the cooking to the
negroes and to the white soldiers detailed to cook. He is nothing of a hustler, but he has
directed negroes from his boyhood up and is as efficient a "boss cook" as the army contained
without any bluster. Six or eight feet in front of him, a big hickory oak fire, say ten feet
long, with glowing coals under the logs, skillets, ovens and pots all occupied in baking bread
or boiling beef under the hands of the negro men, who delighted in the work and joke and grin
and laugh or jump out and dance part of a jig, whilst another claps his hands and pats knees
for the music. Occasionally Potts may quietly say to his negro man, "Jim" I wish you would
hand me a cup of water." He keeps his seat, drinks, hands back the cup and goes on smoking.
No man in the army has a better colored meerschaum. On the march or while the army was in the
trenches, rations are issued, cooked, the bread being baked and the beef boiled, bacon or salt
pork is issued raw, the soldiers eating it raw, or boiled on coals, if convenient and the meat
not too scant. In permanent camp, the soldiers drew the rations raw or cooked as they preferred
almost always each mess preferred to do its own cooking. With us confederates, bread was mostly
corn pone, sometimes biscuits, sometimes hard-tack. Cold cornbread or hard-tack crumbled into
a tin can and boiled with perhaps a few scraps of meat was "cush" and "cush" tasted good, hot
off the coals, after a hard day's march or fighting.

The writers opinion is that the word comes from Louisana where now the Creole French takes
his turn of corn to mill and has it ground into what the American calls "grits," but the Frenchman
of Lousiana, calls it "cous cous."

At one time the Confederate government experimented with a mixture of cowpea flour and wheat
flour, for the making of a nourishing hard tack. Doubtless it was nourishing enough, when there
was plenty of time to boil them soft enough to eat, but most men's teeth were not able to grind
them. It took a hatchet of ax to break them up and the broken pieces resembled shiny pieces
of flint rock. They were not so great a success for the soldier on the march as the inventor
expected. Every day some of the officers and men would get permission to go to the top of the
Ridge, visiting friends, in different commands, on the lines facing Chattanooga, so we kept
in touch with what could be seen and heard of the situation. At the distance, the Yanks could
be seen moving about in Chattanooga like ants in a hill and just about as much could be told
as to what they were doing, as could be told by a man watching the doings of ants at a distance
that will barely allow them to be distinguished.

Soon after our big dinner, Major Robertson ordered Capt. Lumsden and one of the other batteries
to be ready to march at dusk, taking only the gun detachment and guns with their carriages,
leaving the caissons in camp with their horses and drivers.

These two companies were led during the night by a guide to the Tennessee river at a point
a few miles above Chattanooga, with all hands warned not to speak above a whisper and to prevent
all noise of movement possible and placed in position, along an open field, on top of bank
of river, between midnight and day, with the information that a Federal command was just across
the river in camp and only picketing confederate soldiers along our bank. So we lay, waiting
for daylight, some sleeping, some chatting in whispers, in as comfortable position as the ground
afforded.

Just before daylight orders were passed around to get "into battery", with cannoneers at posts
and to load with shells, with fuses cut to 200 yards (point blank range) and when ordered to
fire, to continue to load and fire till ordered to cease firing and move away.

Major Robertson sat his horse at a point where he had previously been in daylight, from which
he knew he could get the first glimpse of the Yankee camp opposite, when it should be light
enough. The other officers all on their horses in their proper positions in each battery, all
drivers mounted and cannoneers at post, with guns loaded and primers stuck in the gun vents,
lanjords in the hands of No. 4 cannoneer. From across the river the Yankee bugle rang out with
the "reveille", call and instantly Major Robertson's voice "Battalion! Ready! Fire!" Eight
guns thundered almost as one and continued to fire each about four shots to the minute for
possibly six or eight minutes, when a Federal battery replied. Then came Robertson's command,
"Limber to the rear! To the right, march! Gallop!" And away we went down the river under the
cover of the sheltering woods. A piece of shell took off the arm of one of Lumsden's men, near
the shoulder, as we moved away. His name was Ray, a private from somewhere in Georgia. He was
attended and brought to camp in the ambulance and sent back to hospital, whether he recovered
or not, we are not sure.

It developed that this little expedition was arranged the day before by Bragg's orders, as
a sort of reconnaissance, to find out whether or not the Yankees had any artillery at this
point, and the opposite side of the river. His order to Robertson was to leave at once if answered
by artillery and not to engage in an artillery duel. All along the route of return to camp,
the different commands in the trenches wanted to know what all that racket meant up the river.
"We never heard guns fire so fast in our lives before." "We thought the ball must be about
to open again, etc." By mid-day we were back in our camp again.

The battery remained in this camp till Tuesday, Nov. 24th, the morning of the battle of Missionary
Ridge, when camp was broken and wagons sent to rear with all camp equipage. The fighting part
was ordered to top of ridge near Gen. Bragg's headquarters. There we remained with the battle
field stretched out before us, simply ready to move, and viewing the great disaster to the
confederate army to our left, we could take no part, could get to no point where needed. Below
us, in our immediate front and to our right, our men held their own manfully. Orderlies and
aids galloped to headquarters, orderlies and aid galloping away again. It filtered down to
us that on our extreme left, the Yankees had gained the ridge and so taking our army on its
left flank. In the afternoon came orders to us, to move to the rear. We soon found ourselves
traveling rearward with lots of wounded infantry and so continued till we crossed Chickamauga
creek and took a position to protect the crossing if necessary. Here we remained until next
morning Nov. 25th till 9:00 a.m., the boys finding in a deserted smoke house a barrel about
half full of beef tallow. It was broken up and distributed around and came in afterwards to
melt up for biscuit shortening. It tasted very well, when biscuits were eaten hot, but to be
eaten cold it is not to be recommended.

Hastening to Chickamauga station, we found the torch had been applied to all the warehouses
and commisary supplies that our people had been unable to move during the night.

Gen. John Breckinridge was at the depot and ordered Capt. George Little, then on his staff,
to get his old Kentucky Brigade and a good battery and place them in the breastworks around
the depot to protect the rear in retreat.

He found Lumsden's battery and they remained with the Kentuckians until Sherman's troops had
approached within a short distance and were about to cut them off on the east of the railroad,
when Gen. Breckinridge ordered them withdrawn to a ridge about one-half a mile to the east
where Gen. Cleburne had drawn up his division. As we crossed the railroad, shells from Sherman's
battery were falling around the depot. Several women were on the station platform when the
first shells hurtled past. Some dropped to their knees in prayer. The balance followed the
soldiers to a barn for cover. The kneeling ones were quickly snatched to their feet and hurried
away. Despite the shelling, every passing confederate took time to fill his haversack with
hard-tack, sugar or anything that came handy and to secure as big a slab of bacon as he could
find transportation for. Our gun carriers were regularly festooned with "Old Ned," as the boys
called bacon. On the first hill east of the station the battery went into position, and as
soon as the enemy appeared, opened on them and so continued to fire on their advancing lines
until ordered to leave the position, and away we went at a gallop to the next available point
and into battery again. So we continued all that afternoon, assisting the infantry rearguard
of the army on that road, contesting the enemy's advance as much as possible. When night came
we continued in a slow retreat, the road being blocked with wagons and artillery and in terrible
condition with mud and ruts. A mile or two per hour being the best we could do. About midnight
we came to a point where another road joined ours, along which another Corps had retreated,
with a high ridge ahead of us to cross, mud being in many places axle deep. We had gotton half
way up the hill, when the Yanks attacked the rear squad of the other Corps below us. We could
see the opposing rifle flashes near the foot of the hill and the minie balls were singing on
all sides. It took all the power of the teams and all the men who could get hold of each wheel
to get those wagons and artillery carriages over that hill, and out of reach of the enemy while
the infantry rear squad held our pursuers in check with a midnight fight in which no man could
see another twenty feet away. Everybody and everything was of course coated with mud, but the
Yankees got nothing for their pains. When the pursuing forces of Osterhau's division, sustained
by Hooker's Corps reached Ringgold gap, Cleburne had prepared an ambush for them and after
holding them in check until night, repulsing successive charges and inflicting heavy loss on
the enemy. Gen Hardie sent an order to Cleburne, who with Gen. Breckinridge and staff, were
at the gap to withdraw the rear squad to Dalton, a former member of our company, by order of
Gen. Breckinridge burned the two bridges across the Chickamauga and that night the army took
position at Rocky face ridge where it remained until May 6, 1864. This ended the campaign for
the year as far as the reserve artillery was concerned, for when we reached Dalton, we were
assigned a camp ground and at once went to work preparing quarters for the winter the date
being Nov. 26, 1863.

In close proximity to a running brook and nearby springs we built log huts. Each mess was composed
of individuals who associated at their own wills, without any interference of military rules
or company officers. The camp was located in a nice piece of woodland, composed of oak, hickory,
pine etc., on the western side of the brook or branch, from which the ground rose at a gentle
slope towards the east and west, the flow being towards the north. On the eastern slope, just
opposite the center of the battalion park of artillery, Major Felix H. Robertson located his
headquarters camp, with Sergeant Major James T. Searcy as his aide.

Ranged along the western slope, were the four batteries of four guns each, that composed the
battalion, Lumsden's on the right, then Barrett's, Massingale's and Havis' batteries. Behind
the guns of each battery were the huts of the men, about one half on each side of a wide street
reaching back perhaps one hundred yards, at the head of which streets were located the quarters
of the officers of the companies.

Each mess built its own hut or cabin on such plan as suited themselves and their number of
individuals. The commissioned officers of each company with their negro servants built their own.

The general plan of each hut was about a 12 x 14 foot space, ground brought to a level. Two
sides of 16 foot poles and back end of 14 feet were notched up at the corners to a height of
about seven feet. The front end consisted of a fire place and rammed earth, with a stick and
mud chimney and the doorway poles notched down on the side walls at top provided joists about
7 feet above the earthen floor, on outer ends of which joists, plates were laid to support
the foot of the pole rafters. Boards of four feet in length split out from cuts of straight
grained pine, made a water tight roof. Cracks between the logs were daubbed with mud which
soon dried. The joists were thrown on top of them and gable ends of the same kind of boards
that made the room. Bunks three or four feet wide made in two tiers were at rear end and sides
bottomed with small poles, and broom-sedge and oak and pine leaves, with a blanket spread over.
Four-legged slabs made good benches, but many split bottom chairs were obtained from country
chair makers. With a good log fire three or four feet long in the fire place and an old blanket
hung in the doorway, soldiers were fixed to defy the coldest days of winter and sleep in comfort
on the coldest nights. A good fat bed-fellow was a luxury not to be despised and on coldest
nights, "spooning" was the prevailing fashion with covering well tucked under. When one wanted
to turn over, it was necessary for the other to do the same. Sometimes they would do so by
word of command as if at drill with "one time and two motions."

The daily military routine was "Reveille" at daybreak, stable call, breakfast, guard mounting,
police of park and camp a citizen would call it, clearing up details to go out for forage and
provisions. A few were allowed each day permits to go out into the country on private foraging
expeditions, seeking to purchase chickens, eggs, milk, butter, buttermilk, vegetables, etc.,
gun squad drills, dinner, and in fine weather and good condition of the ground in afternoon
often, field drill of which battery, with guns, caissons, teams, cannoneers, drivers and all
stable call, supper, camp amusements of all kinds, tattoo and finally taps. There were two
buglers in the company, Charles M. Donoho was at the company headquarters. He acted as messenger
also. The other, Rufus Menander Rosser was in the same mess as the writer. One of his duties
was to blow the Reveille call at a certain hour each morning. His habit was to hang his bugle
on the end of house plate that extended at the door. One freezing night some of the boys emptied
a gourd of water into the open mouth of the bugle, thus filling the coils of same with water.
Next morning, at break of day, our friend Rosser essayed to blow "Reveille." His cheeks expand
nearly to bursting, but not a note comes from the bugle, not even a part of a breath will pass
through. Rosser uncovers the glowing coals amongst the ashes, pushes together the fire chunks
and with his breath blows up a blaze and starts to holding bugle in same. Footsteps of boots
are heard outside. They stop at our door and in pops the head of Lt. A. C. Hargrove with the
question, "Rosser! why have you not blown Reveille?" But his eyes take in the situation, while
he asks the question, and Rosser's answer, "Lieut., some rascal has filled my bugle and it's
full of ice," is really not needed. Off stalks the Lieut. to find Donoho, and his bugle soon
sings out the familiar notes. At the end of which, each man is in ranks, front faced by the
Orderly Sergeant who calls the company roll and then a new day's duties are begun.

Thereafter Rosser's bugle forms part of his pillow, for allowing such a mishap to occur again
would mean extra work at some drudgery. The officers daily report would show up the excuses,
but the boys got some little fun out of such tricks. We were all afraid of Major Robertson.
His reputation was that of a harsh disciplinarian and our company was largely composed of young
men of the highest social ranks. The fear was general that for some little disobedience of
orders, or some infraction of military red-tape, some punishment might be ordered by him, that
the culprit would rather die than submit to something degrading. We had some object lessons.
The Major's hostler came to camp one night drunk. At some order of the Major, the fellow let
in and gave the officer a vile cursing, with opprobrious epithets, called him a half "Injin",
etc., and worse still, common rumors had it that the Major did have Indian blood in him and
he was called generally "Comanche Robertson", but its only foundation was his unusually dark
complexion and eyes.

The sergeant of the guard was sent for and the obstreperous fellow forced off to the guard
house. Next morning the sergeant was ordered to bring the poor devil to the Major's quarters,
and hang him up by strings tied to his thumbs, with hands behind his back, till only his toes
could touch the ground. So he was kept until he was almost frozen stiff. The whole command
recognized the fact that the culprit deserved the severest kind of punishment. He was of a
class that could not appreciate leniency and yet the men were inexpressibly shocked to see
such torture. To see a confederate soldier subjected to brutal punishment under the very eyes
of the insulted officer did not seem to be the proper thing. Had he been courtmarshalled and
shot, it would not have shocked us half so much, but to see a white man, a volunteer serving
the Confederacy subjected to a punishment that public opinion of the South would have considered
brutal on even a negro slave, notwithstanding the recognized heinousness of the officer, went
to our hearts.

The effect on the men in the ranks was not good, the utter helplessness of a private was brought
home to us. It was hurtful to pride as Confederate soldiers serving our country for duty's
sake, and fear of officers replaces badly a soldier's pride in his work. Each soldier from
that time feared Robertson. Had this soldier watched his chance and murdered the officer, and
then deserted to the enemy, the general opinion would have been that such action was to have
been expected.

That such did not happen, showed that the disgrace was not keenly felt, by reason of the social
state from which the soldier sprung, something on the New Orleans "wharf rat", order. One morning
between midnight and day, one of my mess-mates was on guard at the stable lot, a mild spring
morning, and the moon shining. He got tired "walking his post" so he climbed on top of the
fence, under shadow of a tree and there took his seat overlooking the lot. He expected to be
able easily to see or hear any inspecting officer first and to be able quietly to slide down
and resume "walking his post" from under the shadow without being caught, "sitting down on
a post," a disobedience of military orders always.

