Barthold George Niebuhr was born in Copenhagen on the 27th of August 1776; but with the little
old town of Meldorf--once the capital of an ancient commonwealth--his earliest associations
were connected. A kind of rude equality still reigned in the manners of the rustic population,
which was not likely to be disturbed by the influx of the world into a bleak and gloomy district
remote from the great roads. Here young Niebuhr grew up a studious and solitary boy; instructed
by his father in French, the rudiments of Latin, and above all, in geography and history, which
the old traveller taught him to illustrate by maps and plans, and by digging regular fortifications
in the garden. The sheriff of Meldorf, and editor of the Deutsches Museum, a man of both fancy
and learning, assisted in this early education; and the boy--who had never been a child--employed
himself, even at seven years of age, in writing down the instructions he received. In future
years, he regretted his having thus 'lost the life of a child.' 'I found matter for my childish
fancy only in books, engravings, or conversation. I drew into its sphere all I read, and I
read without reason and without aim; but the real world was closed to me, and I could not conceive
or imagine anything which had not been first conceived or imagined by another.'

From this second-hand world he removed at the age of thirteen, when he was sent to the school
at Meldorf, where the principal, Dr Jäger, gave him as much attention as he could spare for
a pupil, who, though much the youngest, was the most advanced in the class. Afterwards, finding
it was impossible to do for him what this strange child required, Dr Jäger advised his removal,
and gave him a private lesson of an hour every day instead. This was continued with only a
few months' interruption and unsuccessful trial of a school at Hamburg, till Barthold was eighteen,
when he was sent to the university of Kiel.

His interest in politics dated from a very early period. At the age of eleven, he studied the
newspapers, English ones especially, which he read with ease; and his knowledge of geography
enabled him to follow all the details of a campaign with vivid interest.

His going to the university was an important incident in his life. His particular vocation,
indeed, seems to have been clear enough from even an earlier period; for though he was a learned
linguist, history especially, and philology, were the pursuits to which his heart was given.
The letters he wrote from Kiel to his parents are amiable, full of affectionate outpourings
about the new men and women to whom he was introduced, about his studies, and about his theories.
He profits by the kindness of the physician, Dr Hensler, whose house and friendly advice were
always accessible; but he declines evening-parties; and contemplates the mountain of knowledge,
up whose steep sides he has yet to climb, with profound awe and some anxiety. 'My head swims
when I survey what I have yet to learn--philosophy, mathematics, physics, chemistry, natural
history. Then, too, I must perfect myself in history, German, and French; study Roman law,
and the political constitutions of Europe, as far as I can, &c.; and all this must be done
within five years at most.... I must know all these things; but how I shall learn them, Heaven
knows! That I shall require them as a learned man, or in any position I may occupy, I am fully
convinced.'

In Dr Hensler's house he saw frequently Mme Hensler, the widow of the doctor's son. She was
six years older than Niebuhr; but to him, unused to female society, and admitted at once into
domestic familiarity with a sensible and engaging woman, this disparity was nothing--perhaps,
indeed, it added to the charm. From other sources, we learn that he at first became attached
to Mme Hensler herself; but being discouraged as a lover, allowed her to introduce him to her
younger sister, Amelia Behrens, a beautiful and intellectual woman; and although the attachment
he then formed was not sudden or violent, it became very profound. After his engagement with
this lady in 1797, and before his marriage, he visited England; and in Scotland--chiefly in
Edinburgh--he spent nearly a year. The account given in his letters of his sojourn in our capital,
would interest and amuse many of its present inhabitants. The Edinburgh of 1797 was more different
perhaps from its present self in outward things, than in mental characteristics. His remarks
on the want of a more open manifestation of feeling and affection among his friends there are
striking. 'It is quite a national trait,' he says, 'not to dwell on what concerns us personally,
upon what fills our heart; and it is as unnatural to them to hear me speak of the topics upon
which I am feeling strongly, as it would be to do the same themselves.... I am far from attributing
it to coldness in these good people. It is altogether national, and it is the same with every
one I have known here, whatever their rank, calling, learning, or sex. It has quite surprised
me, for example, that if you meet a person in whose family some one has been ill, he will hardly
allude to it, beyond a short answer to your inquiries, or speak of it with any feeling. In
this way, it must be allowed, people may easily be independent of each other. I believe firmly
that the Scots love their children--that Playfair is a good father; and yet the former only
speak of them because they have them with them in the evenings, and the boys make their presence
known: the latter behaves exactly as if his boy were not in the room. So far from inviting
me to speak of my relations, so far from Mr Scott making any inquiries as to my father's position--though
he is, nevertheless, as much attached to him as possible--they have met every attempt on my
part to talk to them on these subjects with a silence which admits of no other explanation,
than that it is not in good taste to say much about these things. They have never once asked
after my mother and sister.' We have copied the above, because there is no trace in any part
of Niebuhr's writings, former or latter, of narrow national judgments; and he repeatedly bears
testimony to the fatherly kindness with which he was welcomed, especially in the two houses
mentioned in the above extract. It is simply the sense of a difference, and a difference we
should be inclined to regret as well as he, between the German and the English or Scotch habit.
We shall never forget the earnest, pained manner in which a young German in England once said,
when adverting to the case of some very irreproachable English youths, who yet were never heard
to express a feeling, scarcely to utter a kind thing: 'Your young countrymen seem to me positively
ashamed of being good.'

The diligence of Niebuhr, though often impeded by illness, was immense. Languages, philosophy,
history, natural science, all took their turn. His number of languages was not short of twenty
at this time, and in some he was profoundly versed--in most, very respectably. But the most
remarkable thing through life was his memory, and its wonderful combination of retentiveness
and readiness. This, rather than the imaginative power, it was that made his descriptions so
graphic. Seeing and retaining everything, he painted as if all history was before him. When
he spoke of a striking event, the coast, the mountain-line, or the plain, all the accompaniments
rose up and were grouped before him. You felt carried away with him, as if he had lived there,
and was taking you up by the way.

His return to Denmark took place late in 1799. A double appointment awaited him at Copenhagen--two
government offices, neither bringing in a large salary, but sufficient to allow of his marrying;
and accordingly Amelia Behrens became his wife in May 1800. The five following years found
him engaged in the civil service at Copenhagen--sometimes in very onerous and uncongenial duties,
sometimes in a position of peril, for the bombardment of the city under Nelson took place in
1801, and he keenly entered into every political incident. During this period of five years,
his official service was more than once changed, but it seems always to have been connected
with finance. He still found time for study, straining every power of his mind, he says, at
one time in investigating Roman history, sure 'that the representations of all the moderns,
without exception, are but mistaken, imperfect glimpses of the truth.' This Copenhagen life
allowed him time but for one visit to his parents; and a disappointment which annoyed him considerably,
in what, he thought, a just expectation of preferment, disposed him, in 1806, to accept an
offer from the Prussian government of a post at Berlin not unlike that he had occupied in Copenhagen,
but promising many advantages in society and literary opportunities.

Never was there a more disastrous commencement of a new career. The Niebuhrs reached Berlin
in October 5, 1806, and on the 14th came the dreadful battles of Jena and Auerstadt, while
Napoleon, with his conquering army, marched rapidly upon the city, and seven of the Prussian
ministers gave in their allegiance to the French without even the ceremony of communicating
with their king. The new bank-director shared in the general misfortune, and was forced to
fly, with the court and ministry, first to Danzig, then to Konigsberg, afterwards to Memel
and Riga. A fearful time it was; yet still Niebuhr could write soothingly to his parents: 'You
must not be uneasy: I can earn a living either as a scholar or a merchant; and if I do not
succeed in one country, I shall in another.' To Mme Hensler also he wrote cheeringly, but under
caution, for all letters were unsafe. In the meantime, the indefatigable student took the opportunity
of learning Russian and Sclavonic.

It is difficult to follow out his course distinctly during the next three and a half trying
years. He was always employed in the finance department, and for some little time was a privy-councillor;
but he differed widely in his views from some of those with whom he worked. His letters shew
the most conscientious desire to put aside every thought of personal ease, and to avert from
the poor people around, if possible, some part of the calamity which hostile armies and bad
government entailed on them; and it is delightful to observe his perfect honesty and plainness
of speech as a statesman--his high ideas of truthfulness in all things. Yet they were mournful
years; and his health at last thoroughly failing, he sent in his resignation to the king of
Prussia, and solicited the office of historiographer, vacant by the death of Müller. This was
granted; and in 1810, he and his wife once more found a settled home at Berlin.

And now came the happiest time of his life; though the great delicacy of his wife's health
was an obstacle to the feeling of security, and though still the menaces of Napoleon sounded
fearfully loud, if not close at hand. The breathing-time, however, was delightful. The university
of Berlin was now just opened, and thither came intelligent professors, men of renown in art
and science, in knowledge and wisdom. As historiographer to the king, Niebuhr's part was to
lecture on history; and now, for the first time, the treasures he had long been amassing came
into direct use as the means, through his management, of instructing other minds. He had never
before delivered public lectures, and his advantages in manner were not great; but the success
of his first essays on the history of Rome, proves how solid and real must have been the information
he had to bestow. He was attended not merely by the young men, but by members of the academy,
by professors, by military and public men of all grades. It is no wonder that he succeeded
thus: he was half a Roman by nature and feeling.

So passed the happy years of his professorship. But again the noise of war was heard, and he
and all his coadjutors had to take up arms, and fight the battle of Prussia against the great
tyrant of Europe. Most touching anecdotes are told of the bravery and fine behaviour of the
native troops. Perhaps no war was ever more nobly sustained, and with such anxious avoidance
of cruelty. What a moment it was to Prussia when the news of Bonaparte's abdication reached
the country! when there might be some hope of reaping the harvests they had sown, and rebuilding
their ruined villages! But the Niebuhrs were never again to know the calm and happy days they
had enjoyed. Mme Niebuhr, who had long been declining, was grievously changed for the worse
by the anxieties of the war. On the 2d of May 1815, her husband received at Berlin news of
his father's death; and on the 21st of June, his beloved Amelia followed. The good Mme Hensler,
who had taken alarm, was near to soothe her last hours, and to comfort the husband. Niebuhr
had never spoken to his wife of her approaching end: though longing to know her parting wishes,
he dared not break the physician's orders against excitement. Once only, a few days before
her death, as he was holding her in his arms, he asked her if there was nothing he could do
for her sake--no pleasure he could give her. She replied, with a look of unutterable love:
'You shall finish your history whether I live or die!'

They had no family--he was therefore left alone. At first, nature gave way, and it seemed as
if he had imbibed his wife's disease--pulmonary consumption--and that he regarded the legacy
as a blessing; but his higher nature triumphed. He promised Mme Hensler to live, and try to
accomplish his Amelia's wishes, and she, by her kindly influence, won him to something more.
She saw that to him a lonely life was nearly impossible, and she had another partner in store
for him--Gretchen Hensler, a niece of her late husband. Again he took her counsel; and again,
which is perhaps the most extraordinary part of the affair, it proved that she had judged as
well for both parties as possible. There was no concealment in the matter; the new Mme Niebuhr
perfectly understood his character and his sorrow--understood that she could not be to him
what Amelia had been; but she married him in faith and hope, and the life she brought him was
peaceful and ultimately happy.

Then another change had to be made. He could no longer bear Berlin. Every one saw that a different
position was desirable, and what better than a residence in that country which his literary
labours had seemed to mark out as his own? The king of Prussia wanted an ambassador at Rome,
to negotiate with the pope certain matters touching the interests of his Catholic subjects,
and Niebuhr's appointment was the most natural one possible.

His first impressions of Rome were not favourable, and his first letter was even querulous;
but soon his clear single mind grew strong again; and the spirit of his correspondence during
the whole seven years of his Roman residence is delightful. Children brought out the fatherly
part of his character; his wife was ever his loving and devoted companion; some powerful and
interesting minds sought his companionship; and a taste for art was improved by intercourse
with the rising young artists who were then at Rome--Cornelius, Overbeck, Schadow; but, above
all, the education of Marcus, his eldest child and only boy, who can wonder if he became more
and more of a Roman, and if he closed the seventh year of his residence mournfully when preparing
for his return to Germany?

His mission had been a difficult one--not that the papal court was unfriendly, but the home
instructions were not always clear and consistent. An earnest Protestant himself, he was yet
profoundly alive to the duties of rulers towards all their subjects, of all religious beliefs,
and wished in every negotiation to make sure of a large measure of real freedom.

When at length the concordatives were agreed to, he was anxious for a recall, on account, chiefly,
of the delicate state of Mme Niebuhr's health; but for this he had some little time to wait.
It is interesting to see the manner in which he was affected by the passing events of this time.

'Idle talk,' says M. Bunsen, 'on matters of lofty import, and a dwelling with pleasure upon
trifling topics, were equally abhorrent to him. I shall never forget how Niebuhr spoke at a
princely table in Rome, during the bloody scenes in Greece, of Suli and the Suliots, and the
future of the Christian Hellenes, in much the same terms as he has spoken to posterity in a
passage of his Roman history, which breathes a noble indignation, and a sense that the brand
of infamy still cleaves to us. The prince, a high-minded, amiable, and intelligent man, listened,
as did his guests, with attention and sympathy; a serious mood seemed to come over the whole
party; a pause occurred. One of the guests, a diplomatist, of Mephistophelian aspect and species,
took advantage of it to turn the conversation. One of the eternally repeated trifles of the
day--a so-called piece of news that must be repeated to the prince--was skilfully used as a
stepping-stone; and in ten minutes, the whole table was alive with a dispute between the spokesman
and another person who had contradicted him on a most important point--what "aurora" signified
in the slang of the Roman coffeehouses, whether a mixture of chocolate with coffee or not.
Niebuhr was silent. At last, with quiet earnestness and dignified mien, he spoke these words:
"What heavy chastisements must be still in store for us, when, in such times, and with such
events still occurring around us, we can be entertained with such miserable trifles!" All were
mute, and Niebuhr also. A long pause ensued; and the mysteries of the Caffé Nuovo were not
mentioned again that day.'

The life which Niebuhr led after returning to Germany, was not remarkable as to incident, but
it abounded in useful and noble pursuit. He still shunned Berlin; and, on the whole, the university
of Bonn appeared to him as the best and most suitable residence for the family, now consisting
of five children. He did not take any actual professorship, but he lectured and he wrote. Here
he became the centre of a circle of the highest minds of Germany. All prized him; all, young
and old, felt the benefit of his presence, his labours, and example. He regularly worked at
the history of Rome; but he cultivated his garden, taught and played with his children, and
built himself a house. The time was not all passed at Bonn; in 1829, the family visited Holstein
and Mme Hensler. A twelve years' absence had produced many alterations, but the love of country
and early home was wrought into Niebuhr's heart, and he enjoyed this renewal of youth. A sad
calamity, however, awaited him at Bonn. On the night of February the 6th 1830, the new house
he had built with such pleasure and care, was burnt completely down. Very little could be saved--excepting,
indeed, that the books, being the first object to which his neighbours were attracted when
the family were rescued, were for the most part preserved, and also the manuscript of the second
volume of his Roman history. The whole correspondence with his father, and many other letters
and papers, were destroyed.

This event, though a great shock, he bore with much calmness, and set himself to restore what
was lost. Foreign politics did not lose their interest; on the contrary, the French Revolution
of 1830 excited all his ardour. At first, he was alarmed, anticipating fresh horrors; but the
welcome he gave to Louis-Philippe was most enthusiastic. Dr Arnold describes him as being made
quite happy by this turn of the page of present life, and deeply indignant with the Bourbon
ministers. His ardour in this cause was indeed the immediate occasion of his fatal illness;
for while the French trials were pending, he would go every evening, through severe cold, in
the depth of winter, to the news-rooms, and by this exposure caught the inflammatory cold of
which he died. On the evening of Christmas-day 1830, this formidable attack began; and on the
1st of January 1831, the excellent man breathed his last, fully conscious of his impending
fate, and not less so of that of his beloved partner, who had nursed him during the first two
days, but was afterwards too ill to leave her bed. When her husband was informed of this, he
turned his face to the wall, and was heard to murmur: 'Hapless house! to lose father and mother
at once!' Then, 'Pray to God, children; He alone can help us'--and his attendants saw that
he himself was seeking comfort in prayer. Poor Mme Niebuhr survived him but nine days. She
had her children with her, and tried to give them counsel; but the shock had been too great
for her broken health; she rests in the same grave with him, not far from the glorious river.
The king of Prussia erected a monument to his honour.

Niebuhr was only a few months more than fifty-four. Mrs Austin, who saw him in 1828, says:
'His person was diminutive, almost to meanness, but his presence very imposing. His head and
eye were grand, austere, and commanding. He had all the authority of intelligence, and looked
and spoke like one not used to contradiction. He lived a life of study and domestic seclusion,
but he conversed freely and unreservedly.' His habits, we are told by another writer, were
temperate and regular. 'He entered with earnest sympathy into all the little interests and
conventional jokes of his family and friends; and he writes with quite as much eagerness about
Marcus's learning great E; or Cornelia's flowered frock for her birthday, as about consuls
or cabinets.' Niebuhr himself says: 'I shall teach little Amelia to write myself, for her mother
has no time for it; and the poor little thing might be jealous of Marcus, if one of us did
not teach her.' His consideration for his dependents may be illustrated by this remark: 'I
wish I had taken the governess's room when we got into the house first; but, anti-revolutionist
as I am, I am too much of a democrat to turn her out now in right of superior rank.'

Of his character, some faint idea may be formed from our sketch and extracts; but of the beauty
of his thoughts, his soundness, sagacity, the perfect simplicity of his whole style of character,
a large acquaintance with his free outpourings to his friends can alone give an adequate notion.
We regard them as among the very best private letters we know--of their kind, we mean--for
they are not witty, not playful. The reader will not find lightness and grace, but strength
and manliness, and, in a remarkable degree, affectionateness. They are the charming utterances
of a clear and honest mind, and have made us thankful for the privilege of knowing the inner
life of one whose outward works have long had our admiration.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] By the Chevalier Bunsen and Professors Brandis and Loebell. 2 vols. 8vo. London: Chapman
& Hall. 1852.

THE TATTLETON ELECTION.

There never was a contested election in the borough of Great Tattleton that I remember but
one, and it took place on what was termed the last appeal to the country in the matter of the
Reform Bill. Staid and substantial fathers of families doubtless recollect the strife of parties
and opinions which filled those times, and in which themselves took part, with all the bootless
haste and fervour of twenty; feeling especially indignant that they were not yet householders,
as their incorruptible votes might save the nation. England has floated safely through many
a conflict of the old and new since then, and more of the kind are coming; but no event in
our national history ever appeared to the denizens of Tattleton of half such magnitude as that
contested election. Tattleton was an ancient and respectable borough. It has a railway station
now, but looks much as it did at the time of my story--a small, old-fashioned country town,
situated among corn and orchard lands in one of the cider-making counties, with a newspaper,
a sheriff's court, and sundry quiet shops and alehouses. There is an old church there, with
high Gothic windows full of painted glass, quaint carving, strange tombs, and a suit of knightly
armour hanging between two tattered banners, which the sexton says were carried some time in
the wars. Tradition says also, that there is a fine old painting in fresco, whitewashed over
from the Reformation, but of that I know nothing. The town had other antiquities. Its stocks
were a marvel of age and efficiency. A ducking-stool for scolds yet remained in the courthouse,
beside the beam with which they weighed witches against the Bible; but the oldest thing in
Great Tattleton was its charter: a native antiquary demonstrated, that it had been signed by
King John the day after Runnymede; and among other superannuated privileges, it conferred on
the free burghers the right of trade and toll, ward and gibbet, besides that of electing their
own mayor and one loyal commoner, to serve in the king's parliament.

We all believed that Palladium of Tattleton to be kept somewhere in the church, and generations
had returned their representatives according to its provisions. But the bounds of the borough
were so devious, and the free burghers so thinly scattered among us, that all elections within
the memory of man had been quietly managed by the mayor, the town-clerk, and the sheriff. Moreover,
an old gateway and two crazy posts had something to do in the business by right of ancient
custom. In short, Tattleton was what the advocates of the whole Bill were apt to term a close
and sometimes a rotten borough. Its representation had become hereditary--some said, since
the Long Parliament--in the Stopford family, who owned at least half the soil, and were supposed
to be as old as its charter. One of their ancestors had built the church, another wore the
armour and captured the banners that hung in it. The family pew and vault were there; and they
had been squires and justices of peace from father to son, dispensing hospitality, work, and
law, at their seat of Fern Hall--a great old manor-house, standing deep in a thickly-wooded
dell not half a mile from Tattleton. So far as I could learn, the Stopfords had given no ornaments
to state or church, but theirs was pre-eminently a safe house. Its martlets were generally
fortunate in their connections; and its chiefs had supported the character of moderate reformers,
each in his generation. At home, they were lenient magistrates and prudent landlords, never
overtaxing their tenantry, and rarely enforcing the game-laws. None of them ever took a first
step; but all improvements in the neighbourhood, if once commenced, were certain of their countenance;
and in parliament they always voted for any measure of reform which it was evident the people
would want no longer.

It was, therefore, in accordance with family principles and practice, that the then reigning
squire and M. P., Levison Stopford, Esquire, should take his seat on the ministerial benches,
and vote in and out of parliament for the Bill with which all England rang. Levison Stopford
did not make brilliant speeches, but he had a fair share of prominence in county business,
was a middling landlord, a respectable head of a family, connected by marriage with a Whig
peer, the father of a promising son, and, as the newspapers said, four lovely daughters. All
these recommendations to public favour could not secure him against division in his native
borough. There were Conservatives among us, who clung to the time-honoured institutions of
Tattleton, and could not consent to see their ancient privileges, charter, old posts, and all,
submerged in those of two adjoining boroughs--Little Tattleton, whose constituency consisted
of the beadle, and Lumberdale, to which the earl always nominated his second son; for people
already understood, that on the passing of the Bill these three should become one, at least
in elections.

Sir Jonas Underwood, of Little Tattleton Park, did not like that prospect--he had been regularly
returned by the loyal and independent beadle ever since his majority, a period of some forty
years--neither did the Earl of Lumberdale, as the present state of things made his second son's
canvass by no means difficult. Both the earl and the baronet possessed some property, and more
influence, in our borough, by help of which they warned the loyal Conservatives that their
country was in danger, and exhorted Great Tattleton to rush to the rescue. The mayor said,
that though he respected birth and breeding, yet, if a country gentleman like Mr Stopford would
so far disgrace his family as to vote for a measure which must break down the British constitution,
and utterly ruin England in less than twenty years, he, for his own part, felt called upon
to oppose him. The town-clerk always said as the mayor did: all the Tories in Tattleton took
them for examples, by degrees a party was formed against Stopford on what had hitherto been
his own ground; and long before the dissolution, it was known that they intended, as the phrase
is, 'to start' Sommerset Cloudesly, Esquire, as an opposing candidate in the Conservative interest.

Sommerset Cloudesly occupied a large but neat brick house on the verge of our town's liberties,
with a meadow-like lawn in front, and acres of orchard in the rear. His father had been a small
farmer, who bettered his fortune by all manner of money-making speculations--the last of which,
a cider-manufactory, and a mill, together with a house he had built, the orchard he had planted,
and a handsome strip of landed property, descending to his only son, made him the second man
in Tattleton. Sommerset had been what is called carefully educated: ten years of his life had
been spent in the house of a clergyman, who received select boarders as part of his own family;
five more at a college in Oxford under the direction of a staid tutor; and the residue in a
series of fidgets through the house and land left him by his father; for at the time of our
story, the worthy cider-maker had long gone to his account.

