The Pope, forewarned by the Bishop of Nantes, awaited his Majesty; and as the most important
points had been discussed and arranged in advance, and only a few clauses accessory to the
main body of the Concordat remained to be decided, it was impossible that the interview should
have been otherwise than amicable, a truth which is still more evident when we reflect on the
kind feelings of the Holy Father towards the Emperor, their friendship for each other, and
the admiration inspired in the Pope by the great genius of Napoleon.  I affirm then, and I
think with good reason, that the affair was conducted in a most honorable manner, and that
the Concordat was signed freely and without compulsion by his Holiness, in presence of the
cardinals assembled at Fontainebleau.  It is an atrocious calumny which some one has dared
to make that, on the reiterated refusal of the Pope, the Emperor placed in his hand a pen dipped
in ink, and seizing him by the arm and hair, forced him to sign, saying that he ordered it,
and that his disobedience would be punished by perpetual imprisonment.  The one who invented
this absurd fabrication must have known little of the Emperor's character.  A person who was
present at this interview, the circumstances of which have been so falsified, related them
to me, and is my authority on the subject. Immediately on his arrival at Fontainebleau, the
Emperor paid a visit to the Holy Father, who returned it next day, remaining two hours at least;
and during this time his Majesty's manner was calm and firm, it is true, but full of respect
and kind feeling for the person of the venerable Pope.  A few stipulations of the proposed
treaty alarmed the conscience of the Holy Father, which the Emperor perceived; and without
waiting for any arguments declared that he would renounce them, and every scruple remaining
in the mind of the Holy Father being thus satisfied, a secretary was called, who drew up the
articles, which the Pope approved one by one, with most paternal benignity.

On the 25th of January, after the Concordat was definitely settled, the Holy Father repaired
to the apartments of her Majesty the Empress; and both of the contracting parties appeared
equally well satisfied, which is a sufficient proof that neither treachery nor violence had
been used. The Concordat was signed by the august parties in the midst of a magnificent assemblage
of cardinals, bishops, soldiers, etc.  Cardinal Doria performed the duties of grand master
of ceremonies, and it was he who received the signatures.

A countless number of congratulations were given and received, pardons asked and obtained,
and relics, decorations, chaplets, and tobacco-boxes distributed by both parties.  Cardinal
Doria received from his Majesty the gold eagle of the Legion of Honor.  The great eagle was
also given to Cardinal Fabricio Ruffo; Cardinal Maury,  the Bishop of Nantes, and the Archbishop
of Tours received the grand cross of the order of the Reunion; the Bishops of Evreux and Treves,
the cross of officers of the Legion of Honor; and finally the Cardinal of Bayonne and the Bishop
of Evreux were made senators by his Majesty.  Doctor Porta, the Pope's physician, was presented
with a pension of twelve thousand francs, and the ecclesiastical secretary who entered the
cabinet to copy the articles of the Concordat received a present of a magnificent ring set
with brilliants.

His Holiness had hardly signed the Concordat before he repented of it. The following was related
to Marshal Kellerman by the Emperor at Mayence the last of April:

"The day after the signing of the famous Concordat of Fontainebleau, the Pope dined in public
with me; but in the night he was ill, or pretended to be.  He was a lamblike, honest, and truly
good man, whom I highly esteemed and loved, and who had some regard for me I am sure.  Would
you believe it, he wrote me a week after signing the Concordat that he much regretted having
done so, that his conscience reproached him for it, and urged me earnestly to consider it as
of no effect.  This was owing to the fact that immediately after leaving me he had fallen into
the hands of his usual advisers, who made a scarecrow out of what had just occurred. If we
had been together I could easily have reassured him.  I replied that what he demanded was contrary
to the interests of France; and moreover, being infallible, he could not have made a mistake,
and his conscience was too quick to take the alarm for him to have done wrong.

"In fact, compare the condition of Rome formerly with what it is to-day. Paralyzed by the necessary
consequences of the Revolution, could she have risen again and maintained her position?  A
vicious government as to political matters has taken the place of the former Roman legislation,
which, without being perfect, nevertheless contributed to form great men of every kind.  Modern
Rome has applied to its political government principles better suited to a religious order,
and has carried them out in a manner fatal to the happiness of the people.

"Thus charity is the most perfect of Christian virtues; it is necessary to give charity to
all who ask it.  This form of reasoning has rendered Rome the receptacle of the dregs of all
nations.  One sees collected there (so I am told, for I have never visited it) all the idlers
of the earth, who come thither to take refuge, assured of finding an abundant support with
much to spare.  And thus the papal territory, which nature has destined to produce immense
wealth from its situation under a favorable sky, from the multiplicity of streams with which
it is watered, and above all from the fertility of the soil, languishes for want of cultivation.
Berthier has often told me that large tracts of country may be traversed without perceiving
the impress of the hand of man.  The women even, who are regarded as the most beautiful of
Italy, are indolent, and their minds evince no activity even in the ordinary duties of life.
The inhabitants have all the languor of Asiatic manners.

"Modern Rome limits itself to preserving a certain pre-eminence by virtue of the marvelous
works of art which it contains; but we have greatly weakened this claim.  Our museum is enriched
by all the masterpieces which were a source of so much pride, and soon the magnificent edifice
of the Bourse which is to be erected at Paris will eclipse all those of Europe, either ancient
or modern.

"France before all.

"Viewed from a political standpoint, how would the papal government in these days appear compared
with the great kingdoms of Europe?  Formerly mediocre men succeeded to the pontifical throne
at an age in which one breathes well only after resting.  At this period of life routine and
habit are everything; and nothing is considered but the elevated position, and how to make
it redound to the advantage of his family. A pope now arrives at sovereign power with a mind
sharpened by being accustomed to intrigue, and with a fear of making powerful enemies who may
hereafter revenge themselves on his family, since his successor is always unknown.  In fine,
he cares for nothing but to live and die in peace.  In the seat of Sixtus V.

     [Sixtus V., originally Felix Peretti, born at Montalto, 1525, and
     in 1585 succeeded Gregory XIII. as pope.  He was distinguished by
     his energy and munificence.  He constructed the Vatican Library, the
     great aqueduct, and other public works, and placed the obelisk
     before St. Peter's.  Died 1589.]

how many popes have there been who have occupied themselves only with frivolous subjects, as
little advantageous to the best interests of religion as fruitful in inspiring scorn for such
a government!  But that would lead us too far."

From the time of his return from Moscow, his Majesty occupied himself with unequaled activity
in seeking means to arrest the invasion of the Russians, who, having united with the Prussians
since General Yorck's defection, constituted a most formidable mass.  New levies had been ordered.
For two months he had received and utilized the innumerable offers of horses and cavalry made
by all the towns of the Empire, by official bodies, and by rich individuals holding positions
near the court, etc.  The Imperial Guard was reorganized under the brave Duke de Frioul, who
was alas! a few months later to be torn from his numerous friends.

In the midst of these grave occupations his Majesty did not for a moment lose sight of his
cherished plan of making Paris the most beautiful city of the world; and not a week passed
without interviews with architects and engineers, who presented estimates, made reports, etc.

"It is a shame," said the Emperor one day, while inspecting the barracks of the guard, a species
of black and smoke-begrimed shed, "it is a shame," said he to M. Fontaine, "to make buildings
as frightful as those of Moscow.  I should never have allowed such a building to be erected.
Are you not my chief architect?"

M. Fontaine excused himself by pointing out to his Majesty that he was not responsible for
the buildings of Paris, as although he had the honor of being chief architect of the Emperor,
it was for the Tuileries and the Louvre alone.

"That is true," replied his Majesty; "but could there not be built here," pointing to the quay,
"in place of this wooden dockyard, which produces such a bad effect, a residence for the Italian
minister?"

M. Fontaine replied that the plan was very feasible, but that it would require three or four
millions.

The Emperor then seemed to abandon this idea, and turning his attention to the garden of the
Tuileries, perhaps in consequence of the conspiracy of General Malet,gave orders to arrange
all the entrances to the palace so that the same key might serve for all the locks; "and this
key," his Majesty added, "should be put in charge of the grand marshal after the doors were
closed for the night."

A few days after this conversation with M. Fontaine, the Emperor sent to him and M. Costaz
the following note, a copy of which fell into my hands. His Majesty had that morning visited
the buildings of Chaillot.

     "There is yet ample time to discuss the construction of the palace
     for the King of Rome.

     I do not wish to be led into foolish expenditures; I should like a
     palace not so large as Saint-Cloud, but larger than the Luxemburg.

     I wish to be able to occupy it after the sixteenth million has been
     expended; then it will be a practicable affair.  But if a more
     expensive building is attempted, it will result like the Louvre,
     which has never been finished.

     The parks are first to be considered, their boundaries determined
     and inclosed.

     I wish this new palace to be somewhat handsomer than the Elysee; and
     although that cost less than eight millions, it is one of the most
     beautiful palaces of Paris.

     That of the King of Rome will rank next to the Louvre, which is
     itself a magnificent palace.  It will be, so to speak, only a
     country seat for one residing in Paris, for of course the winters
     would be passed at the Louvre or the Tuileries.

     I can with difficulty believe that Saint-Cloud cost sixteen
     millions. Before inspecting the plan, I wish it to be carefully
     examined and discussed by the committee on buildings, so that I may
     have the assurance that the sum of sixteen millions will not be
     exceeded.  I do not wish an ideal residence, but one constructed for
     my own enjoyment, and not for the pleasure of the architect alone.
     Finishing the Louvre will suffice for his glory; and when the plan
     is once adopted, I will see that it is executed.

     The Elysee does not suit me, and the Tuileries is barely
     inhabitable.  Nothing will please me unless it is perfectly simple,
     and constructed according to my tastes and manner of living, for
     then the palace will be useful to me.  I wish it constructed in such
     a manner that it may be a complete 'Sans Souci'; [Frederick the
     Great's palace in the country near Berlin.] and I especially
     desire that it may be an agreeable palace rather than a handsome
     garden,--two conditions which are incompatible.  Let there be
     something between a court and a garden, like the Tuileries, that
     from my apartments I may promenade in the garden and the park, as at
     Saint-Cloud, though Saint-Cloud has the inconvenience of having no
     park for the household.

     It is necessary also to study the location, so that my apartments
     may face north and south, in order that I may change my residence
     according to the season.

     I wish the apartments I occupy to be as handsomely furnished as my
     small apartments at Fontainebleau.

     I wish my apartments to be very near those of the Empress, and on
     the same floor.

     Finally, I wish a palace that would be comfortable for a
     convalescent, or for a man as age approaches.  I wish a small
     theater, a small chapel, etc.; and above all great care should be
     taken that there be no stagnant water around the palace."

The Emperor carried his passion for building to excess, and seemed more active, more eager
in the execution of his plans, and more tenacious of his ideas, than any architect I have ever
known.  Nevertheless, the idea of putting the palace of the King of Rome on the heights of
Chaillot was not entirely his own, and M. Fontaine might well claim to have originated it.

It was mentioned the first time while discussing the palace of Lyons, which in order to present
a handsome appearance M. Fontaine remarked should be situated on an elevation overlooking the
city, as, for example, the heights of Chaillot overlooked Paris.  The Emperor did not appear
to notice M. Fontaine's remark, and had two or three days previously given orders that the
chateau of Meudon should be put in a condition to receive his son, when one morning he summoned
the architect, and ordered him to present a plan for embellishing the Bois de Boulogne, by
adding a country house on the summit of Chaillot.  "What do you think of it?" added he, smiling;
"does the site appear well chosen?"

One morning in the month of March, the Emperor brought his son to a review on the Champ-de-Mars;
he was received with indescribable enthusiasm, the sincerity of which was undoubted; and it
could easily be seen that these acclamations came from the heart.

The Emperor was deeply moved by this reception, and returned to the Tuileries in a most charming
frame of mind, caressed the King of Rome, covered him with kisses, and dilated to M. Fontaine
and myself on the precocious intelligence displayed by this beloved child.  "He was not at
all frightened; he seemed to know that all those brave men were my friends."  On that day he
held a long conversation with M. Fontaine, while amusing himself with his son, whom he held
in his arms; and when the conversation turned on Rome and its monuments, M. Fontaine spoke
of the Pantheon with the most profound admiration.  The Emperor asked if he had ever lived
at Rome; and M. Fontaine having replied that he remained there three years on his first visit,
his Majesty remarked, "It is a city I have not seen; I shall certainly go there some day. 
It is the city whose people formerly were the sovereigns of the world."  And his eyes were
fixed on the King of Rome with paternal pride.

When M. Fontaine had left, the Emperor made me a sign to approach, and began by pulling my
ears, according to custom when in good humor.  After a few personal questions, he asked me
what was my salary.  "Sire, six thousand francs."--"And Monsieur Colin, how much has he?"--"Twelve
thousand francs."--"Twelve thousand francs! that is not right; you should not have less than
M. Colin.  I will attend to that."  And his Majesty was kind enough to make immediate inquiries,
but was told that the accounts for the year were made out; whereupon the Emperor informed me
that till the end of the year, M. le Baron Fain

     [Born in Paris, 1778; attended Napoleon in his campaigns as
     Secretary of the Records; wrote memoirs of the last three years of
     Napoleon's reign; died 1837.]

would give me each month out of his privy purse five hundred francs, as he wished that my salary
should equal that of M. Colin.

CHAPTER XI.

After the Emperor left the army and committed, as we have seen, the command to the King of
Naples, his Sicilian Majesty also abandoned the command intrusted to him, and set out for his
states, leaving Prince Eugene at the head of the forces.  The Emperor was deeply interested
in the news he received from Posen, where the general headquarters were in the latter part
of February and beginning of March, and where the prince vice-king had under his orders only
the remains of different corps, some of which were represented by a very small number of men.

Moreover, each time that the Russians appeared in force, there was nothing to be done but to
fall back; and each day during the month of March the news became more and more depressing.
The Emperor consequently decided at the end of March to set out at an early day for the army.

For some time previous the Emperor, much impressed by Malet's conspiracy during his last absence,
had expressed the opinion that it was dangerous to leave his government without a head; and
the journals had been filled with information relative to the ceremonies required when the
regency of the kingdom had been left in the hands of queens in times past.  As the public well
knew the means frequently adopted by his Majesty to foster in advance opinions favorable to
any course of conduct he intended to pursue, no one was surprised to see him before leaving
confide the regency to the Empress Marie Louise, circumstances not having yet furnished him
the opportunity of having her crowned, as he had long desired.  The Empress took the solemn
oath at the palace of the Elysee, in presence of the princes, great dignitaries, and ministers.
The Duke of Cadore was made secretary of the regency, as counselor to her Majesty the Empress,
together with the arch-chancellor; and the command of the guard was confided to General Caffarelli.

The Emperor left Saint-Cloud on the 15th of April, at four o'clock in the morning, and at midnight
of the 16th entered Mayence.  On his arrival his Majesty learned that Erfurt and the whole
of Westphalia were in a state of the deepest alarm.  This news added incredible speed to his
march, and in eight hours he was at Erfurt.  His Majesty remained but a short while in that
town, as the information that he there received set his mind at rest as to the result of the
campaign.  On leaving Erfurt the Emperor wished to pass through Weimar in order to salute the
grand duchess, and made his visit on the same day and at the same hour that the Emperor Alexander
went from Dresden to Toeplitz in order to visit another Duchess of Weimar (the hereditary princess,
her sister).

The grand duchess received the Emperor with a grace which enchanted him, and their conversation
lasted nearly half an hour.  On leaving, his Majesty said to the Prince de Neuchatel, "That
is an astonishing woman; she has the intellect of a great man."  The Duke accompanied the Emperor
as far as the borough of Eckhartsberg, where his Majesty detained him to dine.

NOTE BY CONSTANT.--His Majesty's household, reorganized in part for this campaign of 1813,
was composed of the following persons:

Grand marshal of the palace, the Duke of Frioul.

Grand equerry, the Duke of Vicenza.

Aides-de-camp: Generals Mouton, Count de Lobau; Lebrun, Duke de Plaisance; Generals Drouot,
Flahaut, Dejean, Corbineau, Bernard, Durosnel, and Aogendorp.

First ordinance officer, Colonel Gourgaud.

Ordinance officers: Baron de Mortemart, Baron Athalin, M. Beranger, M. de Lauriston; Messieurs
Barons Desaix, Laplace, and de Caraman; Messieurs de Saint Marsan, de Lamezan, Pretet, and
Pailhou; there was also M. d'Aremberg, but at this time he was a prisoner in the town of Dantzic.

First chamberlain and master of the wardrobe, the Count of Turenne.

Prefect of the palace, Baron de Beausset.

Quartermaster of the palace, Baron de Canouville.

Equerries, Barons Van Lenneps, Montaran, and de Mesgrigny.

Private secretaries, Baron Mounier and Baron Fain.

Clerks, Messieurs Jouanne and Provost.

Secretary interpreters, Messieurs Lelorgue, Dideville, and Vouzowitch.

Director of the topographical bureau, Baron Bacler d'Albe.

Geographical engineers, Messieurs Lameau and Duvivier.

Pages, Messieurs Montarieu, Devienne, Sainte Perne, and Ferreri.

The Emperor had his headquarters on the square of Eckhartsberg.  He had only two rooms, and
his suite slept on the landing and the steps of the staircase.  This little town, transformed
in a few hours into headquarters, presented a most extraordinary spectacle.  On a square surrounded
by camps, bivouacs, and military parks, in the midst of more than a thousand vehicles, which
crossed each other from every direction, mingled together, became entangled in every way, could
be seen slowly defiling regiments, convoys, artillery trains, baggage wagons, etc. Following
them came herds of cattle, preceded or divided by the little carts of the canteen women and
sutlers,--such light, frail vehicles that the least jolt endangered them; with these were marauders
returning with their booty, peasants pulling vehicles by their own strength, cursing and swearing
amid the laughter of our soldiers; and couriers, ordinance officers, and aides-de-camp, galloping
through all this wonderfully variegated and diversified multitude of men and beasts.

And when to this is added the neighing of horses, bellowing of cattle, rumbling of wheels over
the stones, cries of the soldiers, sounds from trumpets, drums, fifes, and the complaints of
the inhabitants, with hundreds of persons all together asking questions at the same time, speaking
German to the Italians, and French to the Germans, how could it be possible that his Majesty
should be as tranquil and as much at his ease in the midst of this fearful uproar as in his
cabinet at Saint-Cloud or the Tuileries?  This was nevertheless the case; and the Emperor,
seated before a miserable table covered with a kind of cloth, a map spread before him, compass
and pen in hand, entirely given up to meditation, showed not the least impatience; and it would
have been said that no exterior noise reached his ears.  But let a cry of pain be heard in
any direction, the Emperor instantly raised his head, and gave orders to go and ascertain what
had happened.

The power of thus isolating one's self completely from all the surrounding world is very difficult
to acquire, and no one possessed it to the same degree as his Majesty.

On the 1st of May the Emperor was at Lutzen, though the battle did not occur till next day.
On that day, at six o'clock in the evening, the brave Marshal Bessieres, Duke of Istria, was
killed by a cannon-ball, just at the moment when, mounted on a height, wrapped in a long cloak
which he had put on in order not to be remarked, he had just given orders for the burial of
a sergeant of his escort, whom a ball had just slain a few steps in front of him.

From the first campaigns in Italy the Duke of Istria had hardly left the Emperor at all; had
followed him in all his campaigns; had taken part in all his battles, and was always distinguished
for his well-proved bravery, and a frankness and candor very rare among the high personages
by whom his Majesty was surrounded.  He had passed through almost all grades up to the command
of the Imperial Guard; and his great experience, excellent character, good heart, and unalterable
attachment to the Emperor, had rendered him very dear to his Majesty.

The Emperor was much moved on learning of the death of the marshal, and remained some time
silent with bent head, and eyes fastened on the ground.  At last he said, "He has died like
Turenne; his fate is to be envied."  He then passed his hand over his eyes and withdrew.

The body of the marshal was embalmed and carried to Paris, and the Emperor wrote the following
letter to the Duchess of Istria:

     "MY COUSIN,--

     Your husband has died on the field of honor.  The loss sustained by
     you and your children is doubtless great, but mine is greater still.
     The Duke of Istria has died a most glorious death, and without
     suffering.  He leaves a stainless reputation, the richest heritage
     he could have left his children.  My protection is assured, and they
     will also inherit the affection I bore their father.  Find in all
     these considerations some source of consolation in your distress,
     and never doubt my sentiments towards you.

     This letter having no other object, I pray that God, my cousin, may
     have you in his holy keeping.

                                             "NAPOLEON."

The King of Saxony reared a monument to the Duke of Istria on the exact spot where he fell.
The victory so long disputed in this battle of Lutzen was on that account only the more glorious
for the Emperor, and was gained principally by the young conscripts, who fought like lions.
Marshal Ney expected this of them; for before the battle he said to his Majesty, "Sire, give
me a good many of those young men, I will lead them wherever I wish.  The old bearded fellows
know as much as we, they reflect, they are too cold blooded; but these intrepid children know
no difficulties, they look straight before them, and neither to the right nor left."

In fact, in the midst of the battle, the Prussians, commanded by the king in person, attacked
the corps of Marshal Ney with such fury that it fell back, but the conscripts did not take
flight.  They withstood the fire, rallied by platoons, and flanked the enemy, crying with all
their might, "Vive l'Empereur."  The Emperor appeared; and recovering from the terrible shock
they had sustained, and electrified by the presence of their hero, they attacked in their turn
with incredible violence.  His Majesty was astonished.  "In the twenty years," said he, "I
have commanded French armies I have never witnessed such remarkable bravery and devotion."

It was indeed a touching sight to see those youthful soldiers, although grievously wounded,
some without an arm, some without a leg, with but a few moments of life remaining, making a
last effort, as the Emperor approached, to rise from the ground, and shout with their latest
breath, "Vive l'Empereur."  Tears fill my eyes as I think of those youths, so brilliant, so
strong, and so courageous.

The enemy displayed the same bravery and enthusiasm.  The light infantry of the Prussian guard
were almost all young men who saw fire for the first time; they exposed themselves to every
hazard, and fell by hundreds before they would recoil a step.

