I was exceedingly thrilled by the appearance of the two young gentlemen from the Cannibal Islands,
who are beautifully embossed in green and red, and compassionated them for the sacrifices they
make in putting on blankets and civilization. Is it right to deprive them of their daily bread,--I
mean their daily baby? Think what self-restraint they must exercise while gazing upon the toothsome
infants that congregate at the circus! That they do gaze and smack their overhanging lips I
know, because, after going through their cannibalistic dance, they sat behind me and howled
in a subdued manner. The North American Indian who occupied an adjoining seat, favored me with
a translation of their charming conversation, by which I learned many important facts concerning
man as an article of diet. It appears that babies, after all, do not make the daintiest morsels.
Tender they are, of course, but, being immature, they have not the rich flavor of a youthful
adult. This seems reasonable. Veal is tender, but can it be favorably compared with beef? The
cases are parallel. The embossed young men consider babies excellent for entrées, but for roasts
there is nothing like plump maidens in their teens. Men of twenty are not bad eating. When
older, they are invariably boiled. Commenting upon the audience, the critics did not consider
it appetizing; and, strange as it may appear, I felt somewhat hurt by the remark, for who is
not vain enough to wish to look good enough to eat? Fancy being shipwrecked off the Fiji Islands,
and discarded by cannibals as a tough subject, while your companions are literally killed with
attention! Can you not imagine, that, under such circumstances, a peculiar jealousy of the
superior tenderness of your friends would be a thorn in the flesh, rendering existence a temporary
burden? If we lived among people who adored squinting, should we not all take to it, and cherish
it as the apple of our eye? And if we fell among anthropophagi, would not our love of approbation
make us long to be as succulent as young pigs? What glory to escape from the jaws of death,
if the jaws repudiate us? So long as memory holds a seat in this distracted brain, I shall
entertain unpleasant feelings toward the embossed young gentlemen who did not sigh to fasten
their affections--otherwise their teeth--on me. It was worse than a crime: it was bad taste.

Roaming among the wild animals, I made the acquaintance of the cassowary, in which I have been
deeply interested since childhood's sunny hours, for then't was oft I sang a touching hymn
running thus:

    "If I were a cassowary
      Far away in Timbuctoo,
    I should eat a missionary,
      Hat, and boots, and hymn-book too."

From that hour the cassowary occupied a large niche in my heart. The desire to gaze upon a
bird capable of digesting food to which even the ostrich never aspired, pursued me by day and
tinctured my dreams by night. "What you seek for all your life you will come upon suddenly
when the whole family is at dinner," says Thoreau. I met the cassowary at dinner. He was dining
alone, having left his family in Africa, and I must say that I never met with a greater disappointment.
Were it not for the touching intimation of the hymn, I should believe it impossible for him
to eat a missionary. A quieter, more amiable bird never stood on two legs. A polite attendant
stirred him up for me, yet his temper and his feathers remained unruffled. Perhaps if our geographical
position had changed to Timbuctoo, and I had been a missionary with hymn-book in hand, the
cassowary might have realized my expectations. As it was, one more illusion vanished.

In order to regain my spirits, I shook hands with the handsome giant in brass buttons; and
speaking of giants leads me to the subject of all lusus naturæ, particularly the Circassian
young lady, the dwarf, the living skeleton, the Albinos, and What-is-it. I have dropped more
than one tear at the fate of these unfortunate beings; for what is more horribly solitary than
to live in a strange crowd, with

    "No one to love,
    None to caress?"

Noah was human. When he retired to the ark, he selected two of a kind from all the animal kingdom
for the sake of sociability as well as for more practical purposes. Showmen should be equally
considerate. To think of those Albino sisters with never an Albino beau, of the Circassian
beauty with never a Circassian sweetheart, of the living skeleton with never another skeleton
in his closet (how he can look so good-natured would be most mysterious, were not his digestion
pronounced perfect), to think of the wretched What-is-it with never a Mrs. What-is-it, produces
unspeakable anguish. May they meet their affinities in another and a more sympathetic world,
where monstrosities are impossible for the reason that we leave our bones on earth. Since gazing
at the What-is-it, I have become a convert to Darwin. It is too true. Our ancestors stood on
their hind legs, and the less we talk about pedigree the better. The noble democrat in search
of a coat-of-arms and a grandfather should visit a grand moral circus. Let us assume a virtue,
though we have it not; let our pride ape humility.

Were I asked which I thought the greater necessity of civilization, lectures or circuses, I
should lay my right hand upon my left heart, and exclaim, "Circuses!"

YAWCOB STRAUSS

BY CHARLES FOLLEN ADAMS

    I haf von funny leedle poy,
      Vot gomes schust to mine knee;
    Der queerest schap, der createst rogue,
      As efer you dit see.

    He runs, und schumps, und schmashes dings
      In all barts off der house:
    But vot off dot? he vas mine son,
      Mine leedle Yawcob Strauss.

    He gets der measles und der mumbs,
      Und eferyding dot's oudt;
    He sbills mine glass off lager bier,
      Poots schnuff indo mine kraut.

    He fills mine pipe mit Limburg cheese,--
      Dot vas der roughest chouse:
    I'd dake dot vrom no oder poy
      But leedle Yawcob Strauss.

    He dakes der milk-ban for a dhrum,
      Und cuts mine cane in dwo,
    To make der schticks to beat it mit,--
      Mine cracious, dot vas drue!

    I dinks mine hed vas schplit abart,
      He kicks oup sooch a touse:
    But nefer mind; der poys vas few
      Like dot young Yawcob Strauss.

    He asks me questions sooch as dese:
      Who baints mine nose so red?
    Who vas it cuts dot schmoodth blace oudt
      Vrom der hair ubon mine hed?

    Und vhere der plaze goes vrom der lamp
      Vene'er der glim I douse.
    How gan I all dose dings eggsblain
      To dot schmall Yawcob Strauss?

    I somedimes dink I schall go vild
      Mit sooch a grazy poy,
    Und vish vonce more I gould haf rest,
      Und beaceful dimes enshoy;

    But ven he vas ashleep in ped,
      So guiet as a mouse,
    I prays der Lord, "Dake anyding,
      But leaf dot Yawcob Strauss."

SEFFY AND SALLY

BY JOHN LUTHER LONG

The place was the porch of the store, the time was about ten o'clock in the morning of a summer
day, the people were the amiable loafers--and Old Baumgartner. The person he was discoursing
about was his son Sephenijah. I am not sure that the name was not the ripe fruit of his father's
fancy--with, perhaps, the Scriptural suggestion which is likely to be present in the affairs
of a Pennsylvania-German--whether a communicant or not--even if he live in Maryland.

"Yas--always last; expecial at funerals and weddings. Except his own--he's sure to be on time
at his own funeral. Right out in front! Hah? But sometimes he misses his wedding. Why, I knowed
a feller--yous all knowed him, begoshens!--that didn't git there tell another feller'd married
her--'bout more'n a year afterward. Wasn't it more'n a year, boys? Yas--Bill Eisenkrout. Or,
now, was it his brother--Baltzer Iron-Cabbage? Seems to me now like it was Baltz. Somesing
wiss a B at the front end, anyhow."

Henry Wasserman diffidently intimated that there was a curious but satisfactory element of
safety in being last--a "fastnacht" in their language, in fact. Those in front were the ones
usually hurt in railroad accidents, Alexander Althoff remembered.

"Safe?" cried the speaker. "Of course! But for why--say, for why?" Old Baumgartner challenged
defiantly.

No one answered and he let several impressive minutes intervene.

"You don't know! Hang you, none of yous knows! Well--because he ain't there when anysing occurs--always
a little late!"

They agreed with him by a series of sage nods.

"But, fellers, the worst is about courting. It's no way to be always late. Everybody else gits
there first, and it's nossing for the fastnacht but weeping and wailing and gnashing of the
teeth. And mebby the other feller gits considerable happiness--and a good farm."

There was complaint in the old man's voice, and they knew that he meant his own son Seffy.
To add to their embarrassment, this same son was now appearing over the Lustich Hill--an opportune
moment for a pleasing digression. For you must be told early concerning Old Baumgartner's longing
for certain lands, tenements and hereditaments--using his own phrase--which were not his own,
but which adjoined his. It had passed into a proverb of the vicinage; indeed, though the property
in question belonged to one Sarah Pressel, it was known colloquially as "Baumgartner's Yearn."

And the reason of it was this: Between his own farm and the public road (and the railroad station
when it came) lay the fairest meadow-land farmer's eye had ever rested upon. (I am speaking
again for the father of Seffy and with his hyperbole.) Save in one particular, it was like
an enemy's beautiful territory lying between one's less beautiful own and the open sea--keeping
one a poor inlander who is mad for the seas--whose crops must either pass across the land of
his adversary and pay tithes to him, or go by long distances around him at the cost of greater
tithes to the soulless owners of the turnpikes--who aggravatingly fix a gate each way to make
their tithes more sure. So, I say, it was like having the territory of his enemy lying between
him and the deep water--save, as I have also said, in one particular, to wit: that the owner--the
Sarah Pressel I have mentioned--was not Old Baumgartner's enemy.

In fact, they were tremendous friends. And it was by this friendship--and one other thing which
I mean to mention later--that Old Baumgartner hoped, before he died, to attain the wish of
his life, and see, not only the Elysian pasture-field, but the whole of the adjoining farm,
with the line fences down, a part of his. The other thing I promised to mention as an aid to
this ambition--was Seffy. And, since the said Sarah was of nearly the same age as Seffy, perhaps
I need not explain further, except to say that the only obstruction the old man could see now
to acquiring the title by marriage was--Seffy himself. He was, and always had been, afraid
of girls--especially such aggressive, flirtatious, pretty and tempestuous girls as this Sarah.

These things, however, were hereditary with the girl. It was historical, in fact, that, during
the life of Sarah's good-looking father, so importunate had been Old Baumgartner for the purchase
of at least the meadow--he could not have ventured more at that time--and so obstinate had
been the father of the present owner--(he had red hair precisely as his daughter had)--that
they had come to blows about it, to the discomfiture of Old Baumgartner; and, afterward, they
did not speak. Yet, when the loafers at the store laughed, Baumgartner swore that he would,
nevertheless, have that pasture before he died.

But then, as if fate, too, were against him, the railroad was built, and its station was placed
so that the Pressel farm lay directly between it and him, and of course the "life" went more
and more in the direction of the station--left him more and more "out of it"--and made him
poorer and poorer, and Pressel richer and richer. And, when the store laughed at that, Baumgartner
swore that he would possess half of the farm before he died; and as Pressel and his wife died,
and Seffy grew up, and as he noticed the fondness of the little red-headed girl for his little
tow-headed boy, he added to his adjuration that he would be harrowing that whole farm before
he died,--without paying a cent for it!

But both Seffy and Sally had grown to a marriageable age without anything happening. Seffy
had become inordinately shy, while the coquettish Sally had accepted the attentions of Sam
Pritz, the clerk at the store, as an antagonist more worthy of her, and in a fashion which
sometimes made the father of Seffy swear and lose his temper--with Seffy. Though, of course,
in the final disposition of the matter, he was sure that no girl so nice as Sally would marry
such a person as Sam Pritz, with no extremely visible means of support--a salary of four dollars
a week, and an odious reputation for liquor. And it was for these things, all of which were
known (for Baumgartner had not a single secret) that the company at the store detected the
personal equation in Old Baumgartner's communications.

Seffy had almost arrived by this time, and Sally was in the store! With Sam! The situation
was highly dramatic. But the old man consummately ignored this complication and directed attention
to his son. For him, the molasses-tapper did not exist. The fact is he was overjoyed. Seffy,
for once in his life, would be on time! He would do the rest.

"Now, boys, chust look at 'em! Dogged if they ain't bose like one another! How's the proferb?
Birds of a feather flock wiss one another? I dunno. Anyhow, Sef flocks wiss Betz constant.
And they understand one another good. Trotting like a sidewise dog of a hot summer's day!"
And he showed the company, up and down the store-porch, just how a sidewise dog would be likely
to trot on a hot summer day--and then laughed joyously.

If there had been an artist eye to see they would have been well worth its while--Seffy and
the mare so affectionately disparaged. And, after all, I am not sure that the speaker himself
had not an artist's eye. For a spring pasture, or a fallow upland, or a drove of goodly cows
deep in his clover, I know he had. (Perhaps you, too, have?) And this was his best mare and
his only son.

The big bay, clad in broad-banded harness, soft with oil and glittering with brasses, was shambling
indolently down the hill, resisting her own momentum by the diagonal motion the old man had
likened to a dog's sidewise trot. The looped trace-chains were jingling a merry dithyramb,
her head was nodding, her tail swaying, and Seffy, propped by his elbow on her broad back,
one leg swung between the hames, the other keeping time on her ribs, was singing:

    "'I want to be an angel
        And with the angels stand,
    A crown upon my forehead
        A harp within my hand--'"

His adoring father chuckled. "I wonder what for kind of anchel he'd make, anyhow? And Betz--they'll
have to go together. Say, I wonder if it is horse-anchels?"

No one knew; no one offered a suggestion.

"Well, it ought to be. Say--he ken perform circus wiss ol' Betz!"

They expressed their polite surprise at this for perhaps the hundredth time.

"Yas--they have a kind of circus-ring in the barnyard. He stands on one foot, then on another,
and on his hands wiss his feet kicking, and then he says words--like hokey-pokey--and Betz
she kicks up behind and throws him off in the dung and we all laugh--happy efer after--Betz
most of all!"

After the applause he said:

"I guess I'd better wake 'em up! What you sink?"

They one and all thought he had. They knew he would do it, no matter what they thought. His
method, as usual, was his own. He stepped to the adjoining field, and, selecting a clod with
the steely polish of the plowshare upon it, threw it at the mare. It struck her on the flank.
She gathered her feet under her in sudden alarm, then slowly relaxed, looked slyly for the
old man, found him, and understanding, suddenly wheeled and ambled off home, leaving Seffy
prone on the ground as her part of the joke.

The old man brought Seffy in triumph to the store-porch.

"Chust stopped you afore you got to be a anchel!" he was saying. "We couldn't bear to sink
about you being a anchel--an' wiss the anchels stand--a harp upon your forehead, a crown within
your hand, I expect--when it's corn-planting time."

Seffy grinned cheerfully, brushed off the dust and contemplated his father's watch--held accusingly
against him. Old Baumgartner went on gaily.

"About an inch and a half apast ten! Seffy, I'm glad you ain't breaking your reputation for
being fastnachtich. Chust about a quarter of an inch too late for the prize wiss flour on its
hair and arms and its frock pinned up to show its new petticoat! Uhu! If I had such a nice
petticoat--" he imitated the lady in question, to the tremendous delight of the gentle loafers.

Seffy stared a little and rubbed some dust out of his eyes. He was pleasant but dull.

"Yassir, Sef, if you'd a-got yere at a inch and a quarter apast! Now Sam's got her. Down in
the cellar a-licking molasses together! Doggone if Sam don't git eferysing--except his due
bills. He don't want to be no anchel tell he dies. He's got fun enough yere--but Seffy--you're
like the flow of molasses in January--at courting."

This oblique suasion made no impression on Seffy. It is doubtful if he understood it at all.
The loafers began to smile. One laughed. The old man checked him with a threat of personal harm.

"Hold on there, Jefferson Dafis Busby," he chid. "I don't allow no one to laugh at my Seffy--except
chust me--account I'm his daddy. It's a fight-word the next time you do it."

Mr. Busby straightened his countenance.

"He don't seem to notice--nor keer--'bout gals--do he?"

No one spoke.

"No, durn him, he ain't no good. Say--what'll you give for him, hah? Yere he goes to the highest
bidder--for richer, for poorer, for better, for worser, up and down, in and out, swing your
partners--what's bid? He ken plow as crooked as a mule's hind leg, sleep hard as a 'possum
in wintertime, eat like a snake, git left efery time--but he ken ketch fish. They wait on him.
What's bid?"

No one would hazard a bid.

"Yit a minute," shouted the old fellow, pulling out his bull's-eye watch again, "what's bid?
Going--going--all done--going--"

"A dollar!"

The bid came from behind him, and the voice was beautiful to hear. A gleam came into the old
man's eyes as he heard it. He deliberately put the watch back in its pocket, put on his spectacles,
and turned, as if she were a stranger.

"Gone!" he announced then. "Who's the purchaser? Come forwards and take away you' property.
What's the name, please?" Then he pretended to recognize her. "Oach! Sally! Well, that's lucky!
He goes in good hands. He's sound and kind, but needs the whip." He held out his hand for the
dollar.

It was the girl of whom he had spoken accurately as a prize. Her sleeves were turned up as
far as they would go, revealing some soft lace-trimmed whiteness, and there was flour on her
arms. Some patches of it on her face gave a petal-like effect to her otherwise aggressive color.
The pretty dress was pinned far enough back to reveal the prettier petticoat--plus a pair of
trimly-clad ankles.

Perhaps these were neither the garments nor the airs in which every farmer-maiden did her baking.
But then, Sally was no ordinary farmer-maiden. She was all this, it is true, but she was, besides,
grace and color and charm itself. And if she chose to bake in such attire--or, even, if she
chose to pretend to do so, where was the churl to say her nay, even though the flour was part
of a deliberate "make up"? Certainly he was not at the store that summer morning.

And Seffy was there. Her hair escaped redness by only a little. But that little was just the
difference between ugliness and beauty. For, whether Sally were beautiful or not--about which
we might contend a bit--her hair was, and perhaps that is the reason why it was nearly always
uncovered--or, possibly, again, because it was so much uncovered was the reason it was beautiful.
It seemed to catch some of the glory of the sun. Her face had a few freckles and her mouth
was a trifle too large. But, in it were splendid teeth.

In short, by the magic of brilliant color and natural grace she narrowly escaped being extremely
handsome--in the way of a sunburned peach, or a maiden's-blush apple. And even if you should
think she were not handsome, you would admit that there was an indescribable rustic charm about
her. She was like the aroma of the hay-fields, or the woods, or a field of daisies, or dandelions.

The girl, laughing, surrendered the money, and the old man, taking an arm of each, marched
them peremptorily away.

"Come to the house and git his clothes. Eferysing goes in--stofepipe hat, butterfly necktie,
diamond pin, toothbrush, hair-oil, razor and soap."

They had got far enough around the corner to be out of sight of the store, during this gaiety,
and the old man now shoved Seffy and the girl out in front of him, linked their arms, and retreated
to the rear.

"What Sephenijah P. Baumgartner, Senior, hath j'ined together, let nobody put athunder, begoshens!"
he announced.

The proceeding appeared to be painful to Seffy, but not to Sally. She frankly accepted the
situation and promptly put into action its opportunities for coquetry. She begged him, first,
with consummate aplomb, to aid her in adjusting her parcels more securely, insisting upon carrying
them herself, and it would be impossible to describe adequately her allures. The electrical
touches, half-caress, half-defiance; the confidential whisperings, so that the wily old man
in the rear might not hear; the surges up against him; the recoveries--only to surge again--these
would require a mechanical contrivance which reports not only speech but action--and even this
might easily fail, so subtle was it all!

"Sef--Seffy, I thought it was his old watch he was auctioning off. I wanted it for--for--a
nest-egg! aha-ha-ha! You must excuse me."

"You wouldn't 'a' bid at all if you'd knowed it was me, I reckon," said Seffy.

"Yes, I would," declared the coquette. "I'd rather have you than any nest-egg in the whole
world--any two of 'em!"--and when he did not take his chance--"if they were made of gold!"

But then she spoiled it.

"It's worse fellows than you, Seffy." The touch of coquetry was but too apparent.

"And better," said Seffy, with a lump in his throat. "I know I ain't no good with girls--and
I don't care!"

"Yes!" she assented wickedly. "There are better ones."

"Sam Pritz--"

Sally looked away, smiled, and was silent.

"Sulky Seffy!" she finally said.

"If he does stink of salt mackerel, and 'most always drunk!" Seffy went on bitterly. "He's
nothing but a molasses-tapper!"

Sally began to drift farther away and to sing. Calling Pritz names was of no consequence--except
that it kept Seffy from making love to her while he was doing it--which seemed foolish to Sally.
The old man came up and brought them together again.

"Oach! go 'long and make lofe some more. I like to see it. I expect I am an old fool, but I
like to see it--it's like ol' times--yas, and if you don't look out there, Seffy, I'll take
a hand myself--yassir! go 'long!"

He drew them very close together, each looking the other way. Indeed he held them there for
a moment, roughly.

Seffy stole a glance at Sally. He wanted to see how she was taking his father's odiously intimate
suggestion. But it happened that Sally wanted to see how he was taking it. She laughed with
the frankest of joy as their eyes met.

"Seffy--I do--like you," said the coquette. "And you ought to know it. You imp!"

Now this was immensely stimulating to the bashful Seffy.

"I like you," he said--"ever since we was babies."

"Sef--I don't believe you. Or you wouldn't waste your time so--about Sam Pritz!"

"Er--Sally--where you going to to-night?" Seffy meant to prove himself.

And Sally answered, with a little fright at the sudden aggressiveness she had procured.

"Nowheres that I know of."

"Well--may I set up with you?"

The pea-green sunbonnet could not conceal the utter amazement and then the radiance which shot
into Sally's face.

"Set--up--with--me!"

"Yes!" said Seffy, almost savagely. "That's what I said."

"Oh, I--I guess so! Yes! of course!" she answered variously, and rushed off home.

"You know I own you," she laughed back, as if she had not been sufficiently explicit. "I paid
for you! Your pappy's got the money! I'll expect my property to-night."

"Yas!" shouted the happy old man, "and begoshens! it's a reg'lar bargain! Ain't it, Seffy?
You her property--real estate, hereditaments and tenements." And even Seffy was drawn into
the joyous laughing conceit of it! Had he not just done the bravest thing of his small life?

"Yes!" he cried after the fascinating Sally. "For sure and certain, to-night!"

"It's a bargain!" cried she.

"For better or worser, richer or poorer, up an' down, in an' out, chassez right and left! Aha-ha-ha!
Aha-ha-ha! But, Seffy,"--and the happy father turned to the happy son and hugged him, "don't
you efer forgit that she's a feather-head and got a bright red temper like her daddy! And they
both work mighty bad together sometimes. When you get her at the right place onct--well, nail
her down--hand and feet--so's she can't git away. When she gits mad her little brain evaporates,
and if she had a knife she'd go round stabbing her best friends--that's the only sing that
safes her--yas, and us!--no knife. If she had a knife it would be funerals following her all
the time."

II

They advanced together now, Seffy's father whistling some tune that was never heard before
on earth, and, with his arm in that of his son, they watched Sally bounding away. Once more,
as she leaped a fence, she looked laughingly back. The old man whistled wildly out of tune.
Seffy waved a hand!

"Now you shouting, Seffy! Shout ag'in!"

"I didn't say a word!"

"Well--it ain't too late! Go on!"

Now Seffy understood and laughed with his father.

"Nice gal, Sef--Seffy!"

"Yes!" admitted Seffy with reserve.

"Healthy."

Seffy agreed to this, also.

"No doctor-bills!" his father amplified.

Seffy said nothing.

"Entire orphen."

"She's got a granny!"

"Yas," chuckled the old man at the way his son was drifting into the situation--thinking about
granny!--"but Sally owns the farm!"

"Uhu!" said Seffy, whatever that might mean.

"And Sally's the boss!"

Silence.

"And granny won't object to any one Sally marries, anyhow--she dassent! She'd git licked!"

"Who said anything about marrying?"

Seffy was speciously savage now--as any successful wooer might be.

"Nobody but me, sank you!" said the old man with equally specious meekness. "Look how she ken
jump a six-rail fence. Like a three-year filly! She's a nice gal, Seffy--and the farms j'ine
together--her pasture-field and our corn-field. And she's kissing her hand backwards! At me
or you, Seffy?"

Seffy said he didn't know. And he did not return the kiss--though he yearned to.

"Well, I bet a dollar that the first initial of his last name is Sephenijah P. Baumgartner,
Junior."

"Well!" said Seffy with a great flourish, "I'm going to set up with her to-night."

"Oach--git out, Sef!"--though he knew it.

"You'll see."

"No, I won't," said his father. "I wouldn't be so durn mean. Nossir!"

Seffy grinned at this subtle foolery, and his courage continued to grow.

"I'm going to wear my high hat!" he announced, with his nose quite in the air.

"No, Sef!" said the old man with a wonderful inflection, facing him about that he might look
into his determined face. For it must be explained that the stovepipe hat, in that day and
that country, was dedicated only to the most momentous social occasions and that, consequently,
gentlemen wore it to go courting.

"Yes!" declared Seffy again.

    "Bring forth the stovepipe,
    The stovepipe, the stovepipe--"

chanted Seffy's frivolous father in the way of the Anvil Chorus.

"And my butterfly necktie with--"

"Wiss the di'mond on?" whispered his father.

They laughed in confidence of their secret. Seffy, the successful wooer, was thawing out again.
The diamond was not a diamond at all--the Hebrew who sold it to Seffy had confessed as much.
But he also swore that if it were kept in perfect polish no one but a diamond merchant could
tell the difference. Therefore, there being no diamond merchant anywhere near, and the jewel
being always immaculate, Seffy presented it as a diamond and had risen perceptibly in the opinion
of the vicinage.

"And--and--and--Sef--Seffy, what you goin' to do?"

"Do?"

Seffy had been absorbed in what he was going to wear. "Yas--yas--that's the most important."
He encircled Seffy's waist and gently squeezed it. "Oh, of course! Hah? But what yit?"

I regret to say that Seffy did not understand.

"Seffy," he said impressively, "you haf' tol' me what you goin' to wear. It ain't much. The
weather's yit pooty col' nights. But I ken stand it if you ken--God knows about Sally! Now,
what you goin' to do--that's the conuntrum I ast you!"

Still it was not clear to Seffy.

"Why--what I'm a-going to do, hah? Why--whatever occurs."

"Gosh-a'mighty! And nefer say a word or do a sing to help the occurrences along? Goshens! What
a setting-up! Why--say--Seffy, what you set up for?"

Seffy did not exactly know. He had never hoped to practise the thing--in that sublimely militant
phase.

"What do you think?"

"Well, Sef--plow straight to her heart. I wisht I had your chance. I'd show you a other-guess
kind a setting-up--yassir! Make your mouth warter and your head swim, begoshens! Why, that
Sally's just like a young stubble-field; got to be worked constant, and plowed deep, and manured
heafy, and mebby drained wiss blind ditches, and crops changed constant, and kep' a-going thataway--constant--constant--so's
the weeds can't git in her. Then you ken put her in wheat after a while and git your money back."

This drastic metaphor had its effect. Seffy began to understand. He said so.

"Now, look here, Seffy," his father went on more softly, "when you git to this--and this--and
this,"--he went through his pantomime again, and it included a progressive caressing to the
kissing point--"well, chust when you bose comfortable--hah?--mebby on one cheer, what I know--it's
so long sence I done it myself--when you bose comfortable, ast her--chust ast her--aham!--what
she'll take for the pasture-field! She owns you bose and she can't use bose you and the pasture.
A bird in the hand is worth seferal in another feller's--not so?"

But Seffy only stopped and stared at his father. This, again, he did not understand.

"You know well enough I got no money to buy no pasture-field," said he.

"Gosh-a'mighty!" said the old man joyfully, making as if he would strike Seffy with his huge
fist--a thing he often did. "And ain't got nossing to trade?"

"Nothing except the mare!" said the boy.

