She had extended her clenched hand in speaking and now struck it violently on the desk. The
silver blotter, the candlesticks, the pen-tray and ink-stand leaped in their places and the
ink, splashing up, spattered her white silk robe.

"There now," said Mrs. Talcott, eyeing her impassively, "you've gone and spoiled your nice dress."

"Damn the dress!" said Madame von Marwitz. Leaning her elbows on the desk and her face on her
hands, she wept; the tears trickled between her fingers.

But in a very little while the storm passed. She straightened herself, found her lace-edged
handkerchief and dried her eyes and cheeks; then, taking a long breath, she drew forward a
pad of paper.

"I am a fool, am I not, Tallie," she remarked. "And you are wise; a traitor, yet wise. I will
do as you say. Wait there and you shall see."

Mrs. Talcott now subsided heavily into a chair and for some fifteen minutes there was no sound
but the scratching of Madame von Marwitz's pen and the deep sighs that from time to time she
heaved.

Then: "So: will that do?" she asked, leaning back with the deepest of the sighs and handing
the pages to Mrs. Talcott.

Her dark, cold eyes, all clouded with weeping, had a singularly child-like expression as she
thus passed on her letter for inspection. And--as when she had stretched out her legs for Mrs.
Talcott to put on her stockings--one saw beyond the instinctively confiding gesture a long
series of scenes reaching back to childhood, scenes where, in crises, her own craft and violence
and unscrupulous resource having undone her, she had fallen back in fundamental dependence
on the one stable and inalienable figure in her life.

Mrs. Talcott read:

     "My Friend--Dearest and best Beloved,--I am in the straits of a
     terrible grief.--I am blind with weeping, dazed from a sleepless
     night and a day of anguish.--My child, my Karen, is gone and, oh my
     friend, I am in part to blame.--I am hot of blood, quick of tongue,
     as you know, and you know that Karen is haughty, resentful,
     unwilling to brook reproof even from me. But I do not attempt to
     exonerate myself. I will open my heart to you and my friend will
     read aright and interpret the broken words. You know that I cared
     for Claude Drew; you guessed perhaps how strong was the hold upon
     me of the frail, ambiguous, yet so intelligent modern spirit. It
     was to feel the Spring blossom once more on my frosty branches when
     this young life fell at my knees and seemed to find in me its
     source and goal. Mine was a sacred love and pain mingled with my
     maternal tenderness when he revealed himself to me as seeking from
     me the lesser things of love, the things I could not give, that
     elemental soil of sense and passion without which a man's devotion
     so strangely withers,--I could give him water from the wells and
     light from the air; I could not give him earth. My friend, he was
     here when Karen came, and, already I had seen it, his love was
     passing from me. Her youth, her guilelessness, her courage and the
     loyalty of her return to me, aroused his curiosity, his indolent
     and--you will remember--his unsatisfied, passion. I saw at once,
     and I saw danger. I knew him to be a man believing in neither good
     nor evil, seeking only beauty and the satisfaction of desire. Not
     once--but twice, thrice, did I warn Karen, and she resented my
     warnings. She is a creature profoundly pure and profoundly simple
     and her stubborn spirit rests in security upon its own assurances.
     She resented my warnings and she repulsed my attempts to lead and
     guard her. Another difference had also come between us. I hoped to
     effect a reconciliation between her and her husband; I suggested to
     Karen that I should write to you and offer myself as an
     intermediary; I could not bear to see her young life ruined for my
     sake. Karen was not kind to me; the thought of her husband is
     intolerable to her and she turned upon me with bitterness. I was
     hurt and I told her so. She brought me to tears. My friend, it was
     late on the night of that day--the night before last--that I found
     her with Claude Drew in the garden; and found her in his arms. Do
     not misunderstand; she had not returned his love; she repulsed him
     as I came upon them; but I, in my consternation, my anger, my
     dismay, snatched her from him and spoke to them both with
     passionate reproof. I sent Karen to the house and remained behind
     to deal with the creature who had so betrayed my trust. He is now
     my avowed enemy. So be it. I do not see him again.

     "At dawn, after a sleepless night, I went to Karen's room to take
     her in my arms and to ask her pardon for my harsh words. She was
     gone. Gone, my friend. Tallie tells me that she believed me to have
     said that unless she could obey me I must forbid her to remain
     under my roof. These were not my words; but she had misunderstood
     and had fiercely resented my displeasure. She told Tallie that she
     would go to the Lippheims,--for them, as I have told you, she has a
     deep affection. Tallie urged upon her that she should communicate
     with her husband, let him know what had happened, return to
     him--even if it were to blacken me in his eyes--and would to God
     that it had been so!--But she repulsed the suggestion with
     bitterness. It must also have filled her with terror lest we should
     ourselves make some further attempt to bring about a
     reconciliation; for it was in the night, and immediately after her
     talk with Tallie, that she went, although she and Tallie had
     arranged that she was to go to the Lippheims next day.

     "We have wired to the Lippheims and find that they have left
     England. And we have wired to Mr. Jardine, and she is not with him.
     She may be on her way to Germany; she may be concealed in the
     country near here; she may be in London. Unless we have news of her
     to-morrow I send for a detective. Oh, to hold her in my arms! I am
     crushed to the earth with sorrow and remorse. Show this letter to
     her husband. I have no thought of pride.

     "Your devoted and unhappy Mercedes."

Mrs. Talcott read and remained for some moments reflecting after she had read. "Well, I suppose
that's got to do," she commented, "though I don't call it a satisfactory letter. You've fixed
it up real smart, but it's a long way off the truth."

Madame von Marwitz, while Mrs. Talcott read, had been putting back the disordered strands of
her hair, adjusting her laces, and dabbing vaguely with her handkerchief at the splashes of
ink that disfigured the front of her dress--thereby ruining the handkerchief; she looked up
sharply now.

"I deny that it is a long way off the truth."

"A long way off," Mrs. Talcott repeated colourlessly; "but I guess it'll have to do. I'm willing
you should make the best story out for yourself you can to your friends, so long as Karen knows
the truth and so long as you don't spread scandal about her. Now I'll write to Mr. Jardine."

Madame von Marwitz's eyes were still fixed sharply on her and a sudden suspicion leapt to them.
"Here then!" she exclaimed. "You write in my presence as I have done in yours. And we go to
the village together that I may see you post the self-same letter. I have had enough of betrayals!"

Mrs. Talcott allowed a grim smile to touch her lips. "My, but you're silly, Mercedes," she
said. "Get up, then, and let me sit there. I'd just as leave I'm sure. You know I'm determined
that Karen shall go back to her husband and that I'm going to do all I can so as she shall.
So there's nothing I want to hide."

She took up the pen and Madame von Marwitz leaned over her shoulder and read as she wrote:

     "Dear Mr. Jardine,--Mercedes and Karen have had a disagreement and
     Karen took it very hard and has made off, we don't know where. Go
     round to Mrs. Forrester and see what Mercedes has got to say about
     it. Karen will tell you her side when you see her. She feels very
     bad about you yet; and thinks things are over between you; but you
     hang on, Mr. Jardine, and it'll all come right. You'd better find
     out whether Karen's called at the Lippheims' and get a detective
     and try and trace her out. If she's with them in Germany I advise
     you to go right over and see her.--Yours sincerely,

     "Hannah Talcott."

Mrs. Talcott, as she finished, heard that the breathing of Mercedes, close upon her, had become
heavier. She did not look at her. She knew what Mercedes was feeling, and dreading; and that
Mercedes was helpless.

"There's no reason under the sun why Handcock shouldn't take these letters as usual," she remarked;
"but if you're set on it that you're being betrayed, put on your shoes and dress and we'll
walk down and mail them together."

CHAPTER XXXIX

It was on the second morning after this that the letters were brought in to Madame von Marwitz
while she and Mrs. Talcott sat in the music-room together.

The two days had told upon them both. The face of Mercedes was like a beautiful fruit, rain-sodden
and gnawed at the heart by a worm. Mrs. Talcott's was more bleached, more desolate, more austere.

The one letter that Handcock brought to Mrs. Talcott was from Gregory Jardine:

     "Dear Mrs. Talcott," it said, "Thank you for your kind note. I am
     very unhappy and only a little less unhappy than when Karen left
     me. One cause of our estrangement is, perhaps, removed; but the
     fact borne in upon me at the time of that parting was that, while
     she was everything in life to me, she hardly knew the meaning of
     the words love and marriage. I need not tell you that I will do all
     in my power to induce her to return to me, and all in my power to
     win her heart. It was useless to make any attempt at reconciliation
     while her guardian stood between us. I cannot pretend that I feel
     more kindly towards Madame von Marwitz now; rather the reverse. It
     is plain to me that she has treated Karen shamefully. You must
     forgive me for my frankness.--Sincerely yours,

     "Gregory Jardine."

Mrs. Talcott when she looked up from this letter saw that Mercedes was absorbed in hers. Her
expression had stiffened as she read, and when she had finished the hand holding it dropped
to her side. She sat looking down in a dark contemplation.

Mrs. Talcott asked no question. United in the practical exigencies of their search for Karen,
united in their indestructible relation of respective dependence and stability, which the last
catastrophe had hardly touched--for Mercedes had accepted her betrayal with a singular passivity,
as if it had been a force of nature that had overtaken her--there was yet a whole new region
of distrust between them. She and Mercedes, as Mrs. Talcott cheerlessly imaged it, were like
a constable and his captive adrift, by a curious turn of fortune, on the waters of a sudden
inundation. Together they baled out water and worked at the oar, but both were aware that when
the present peril was past a sentence had still to be carried out on one of them. Mercedes
could not evade her punishment. If Karen were found Gregory Jardine must come to know that
her guardian had, literally, driven her from her home. In that case it rested with Gregory's
sense of mercy whether Mercedes should be exposed to the world or not. And after reading Gregory's
letter Mrs. Talcott reflected that there was not much to hope of mercy from him. So she showed
a tactful consideration of her companion's state of nerves by pressing her no further than
was necessary.

On this occasion, however, there was no need for pressure; Mercedes, in her dismal plight,
turned to her with the latest development of it.

"Ah," she said, while she still continued to gaze down fixedly, "this it is to have true friends.
This is human loyalty. It is well."

"What's the matter, Mercedes?" Mrs. Talcott asked, as she was evidently invited to do.

"Read if you will," said Madame von Marwitz. She held out the letter which Mrs. Talcott rose
to take.

It was from Mrs. Forrester and was full of sympathy for her afflicted friend, and full of sympathy
for foolish, headstrong little Karen. The mingled sympathies rang strangely. She avowed self-reproach.
She was afraid that she had precipitated the rupture between Karen and her husband, not quite,
perhaps, understanding the facts. She had seen Gregory, she was very sorry for him. She was,
apparently, sorry for everyone; except of course, Mr. Drew, the villain of the piece; but of
Mr. Drew and of Mercedes's sacred love for him, she made no mention. Mrs. Forrester was fond,
but she was wary. She had received, evidently, her dim thrust of disillusion. Mercedes had
blamed herself and Mrs. Forrester did not deny that Mercedes must be to blame.

"Yes; she's feeling pretty sick," Mrs. Talcott commented when she had read. "The trouble is
that anybody who knows how much Karen loved you knows that she wouldn't have made off like
that without you'd treated her ugly. That'll be the trouble with most of your friends, I reckon.
Who's your other letter from?"

Madame von Marwitz roused herself from her state of contemplation. She opened the second letter
saying, tersely: "Scrotton."

"She ain't likely to take sides with Karen," Mrs. Talcott observed, inserting her hand once
more in the stocking she was darning, these homely occupations having for the last few days
been brought into the music-room, since Mercedes would not be left alone. "She was always just
as jealous of Karen as could be."

She proceeded to darn and Madame von Marwitz to read, and as she read a dark flush mounted
to her face. Clenching her hand on Miss Scrotton's letter, she brought it down heavily on the
back of the chair she sat in. Then, without speaking, she got up, tossed the letter to Mrs.
Talcott, and began to pace the room, setting the furniture that she encountered out of her
way with vindictive violence.

     "My Darling, Darling Mercedes," Miss Scrotton wrote, "This is too
     terrible. Shall I come to you at once? I thought this morning after
     I had seen Mrs. Forrester and read your heartbreaking letter that I
     would start to-day; but let me hear from you, you may be coming up
     to town. If you stay in Cornwall, Mercedes, you must not be alone;
     you must not; and I am, as you know, devoted heart and soul. If all
     the world turned against you, Mercedes, I should keep my faith in
     you. I need hardly tell you what is being said. Claude Drew is in
     London and though, naturally, he does not dare face your friends
     with his story, rumours are abroad. Betty Jardine does not know
     him, but already she has heard; I met her only a few hours ago and
     the miserable little creature was full of malicious satisfaction.
     The story that she has heard--and believes--and that London will
     believe--is the crude, gross one that facts, so disastrously, have
     lent colour to; you, in a fit of furious jealousy, driving Karen
     away. My poor, great, suffering friend, I need not tell you that I
     understand. Your letter rings true to me in every line, and is but
     too magnanimous.--Oh Mercedes!--had you but listened to my warnings
     about that wretched man. Do you remember that I told you that you
     were scattering your pearls before swine? And your exculpation of
     Karen did not convince me as it seemed to do Mrs. Forrester. A
     really guileless woman is not found--late at night--in a man's
     arms. I cannot forget Karen's origins. There must be in her the
     element of reckless passion. Mr. Drew is spreading a highly
     idealised account of her and says that to see you together was to
     see Antigone in the clutches of Clytemnestra. There is some
     satisfaction in knowing that the miserable man is quite distracted
     and is haunted by the idea that Karen may have committed suicide.
     Betty Jardine says that in that case you and he would have to
     appear at the inquest.--Oh, my poor Mercedes!--But I feel sure that
     this is impossible. Temper, not tragedy, drove Karen from you and
     it was on her part a dastardly action. I am seeing everybody that I
     can; they shall have my version. The Duchess is in the country; I
     have wired to her that I will go to her at once if you do not send
     for me; it is important that she should have the facts as I see
     them before these abominable rumours reach her. Dear Mrs. Forrester
     means, I am sure, to do loyally; you may count upon her to listen
     to no scandal; but its breath alarms and chills her: she does not
     interpret your letter as I do.

     "Good-bye, my dear one. Wire to me please, at once. Ever and always
     ton Eleanor devouée."

"Well," Mrs. Talcott commented warily, folding the letter and glancing at Madame von Marwitz;
"she don't let any grass grow under her feet, does she? Do you want her down?"

"Want her! Why should I want her! The insufferable fool!" cried Madame von Marwitz still striding
to and fro with tigerish regularity. "Does she think me, too, a fool, to be taken in by her
grimaces of loyalty when it is as apparent as the day that delight is her chief emotion. Here
is her opportunity--parbleu!--At last! I am in the dust--and if also in the dock so much the
better. She will stand by me when others fall away. She will defend the prostrate Titaness
from the vultures that prey upon her and gain at last the significance she has, for so long,
so eagerly and so fruitlessly pursued. Ah!--par exemple! Let her come to me expecting gratitude.
I will spurn her from me like a dog!" Madame von Marwitz, varying her course, struck a chair
aside as she spoke.

"Well, I shouldn't fly out at her if I was you," said Mrs. Talcott. "She's as silly as they
make 'em, I allow, but it's all to the good if her silliness keeps her sticking to you through
thick and thin. It's just as well to have someone around to drive off the vultures, even if
it's only a scarecrow--and Miss Scrotton is better than that. She's a pretty brainy woman,
for all her silliness, and she's pretty fond of you, too, only you haven't treated her as well
as she thinks you ought to have, and it makes her feel kind of spry and cheerful to see that
her time's come to show you what a fine fellow she is. Most folks are like that, I guess,"
Mrs. Talcott mused, returning to her stocking, "they don't suffer so powerful over their friends'
misfortunes if it gives them a chance of showing what fine fellows they are."

"Friends!" Madame von Marwitz repeated with scorching emphasis. "Friends! Truly I have proved
them, these friends of mine. Cowards and traitors all, or crouching hounds. I am to be left,
I perceive, with the Scrotton as my sole companion." But now she paused in her course, struck
by a belated memory. "You had a letter. You have heard from the husband."

"Yes, I have," said Mrs. Talcott, "and you may as well see it." She drew forth Gregory's letter
from under the heap of darning appliances on her lap.

Madame von Marwitz snatched it from her and read it, once rapidly, once slowly; and then, absorbed
again in dark meditations, she stood holding it, her eyes fixed on the ground.

"He ain't as violent as might be expected, is he?" Mrs. Talcott suggested. Distrust was abroad
in the air between her and Mercedes; she offered the fact of Gregory's temperateness as one
that might mitigate some anticipations.

"He is as insolent as might be expected," said Madame von Marwitz. She flung the letter back
to Mrs. Talcott, resuming her pacing, with a bitter laugh. "And to think," she said presently,
"that I hoped--but truly hoped--with all my heart--to reconcile them! To think that I offered
myself to Karen as an intermediary. It was true--yes, literally true--what I told Mrs. Forrester--that
I spoke to Karen of it--with all love and gentleness and that she turned upon me like a tigress."

"And you'll recollect," said Mrs. Talcott, "that I told you to keep your hands off them and
that you'd made enough mischief as it was. Why I guess you did hope she'd go back. You wanted
to get rid of Karen and to have that young man to yourself; that's the truth, but you didn't
tell that to Mrs. Forrester."

"I deny it," said Madame von Marwitz; but mechanically; her thoughts were elsewhere. She still
paced.

"Well," said Mrs. Talcott, "you'd better send that telegram to Miss Scrotton, telling her not
to come, or you'll have her down here as soon as she's seen the Duchess."

"Send it; send it at once," said Madame von Marwitz. "Tell her that I do not need her. Tell
her that I will write." The force of her fury had passed; counsels of discretion were making
themselves felt. "Go at once and send it."

She paused again as Mrs. Talcott rose. "If Karen is not found within three days, Tallie, I
go to London. I believe that she is in London."

Mrs. Talcott faced her. "If she's in London she'll be found as soon by Mr. Jardine as by you."

"Yes; that may be," said Mercedes, and discretion, now, had evidently the mastery; "but Karen
will not refuse to see me. I must see her. I must implore her forgiveness. You would not oppose
that, would you, Tallie?"

"No, I'd not oppose your asking her to forgive you," Mrs. Talcott conceded, "when she's got
back to her husband. Only I advise you to stay where you are till you hear she's found."

"I will do as you say, Tallie," said Madame von Marwitz meekly. She went to the piano, and
seating herself began to play the Wohltemperirtes Clavier.

CHAPTER XL

Six days had passed since Karen's disappearance. The country had been searched; London, still,
was being examined, and the papers were beginning to break into portraits of the missing girl.
Karen became remote, non-existent, more than dead, it seemed, when her face, like that of some
heroine of a newspaper novelette, gazed at one from the breakfast-table. The first time that
this happened, Madame von Marwitz, flinging the sheet from her, had burst into a violent storm
of weeping.

