Private Members blew off a great volume of steam to-day on the proposal of the Government to
take the whole time of the House. Scotsmen, Irishmen and an Englishman or two joined in the
plea that at least they should be allowed to introduce their various little Bills, even if
they did not get any further. Perhaps if a Welshman had joined the band they might have been
listened to. As it was, only one of them received any comfort. This was Mr. SWIFT MACNEILL,
who was informed that the Bill to deprive the enemy dukes of their British titles, for which
he has been clamouring these two years, would shortly be introduced. But for the rest Mr. BONAR
LAW was not inclined at this crisis in our fate to encourage the raising of questions, most
of them acutely controversial, which would distract attention from the War.

On an amendment to the Address Mr. LESLIE SCOTT took up his brief for the British farmer, who,
deprived of his skilled men and faced with higher prices for fertilizers and feeding-stuffs,
was expected to grow more food without having any certainty that he would be able to dispose
of it at a remunerative price. Farming is always a bit of a gamble, but in present conditions
it beats the Stock Exchange hollow. Some of the proposals which Mr. SCOTT outlined to improve
the situation would have been denounced as revolutionary three years ago, and were a little
too drastic even now for Mr. PROTHERO. Squeezed between the WAR MINISTER and the FOOD CONTROLLER,
the MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE rather resembles the Dormouse in Alice in Wonderland; but he is
really quite all right, thank you. Mr. GEORGE LAMBERT thinks that the author of "The Psalms
in Human Life" is too saintly to tackle Lords DERBY and DEVONPORT, but, if my memory serves
me, DAVID--no allusion to the PREMIER--had a rather pretty gift of invective.

Let no one say that England is not at last awake. Mr. CHARLES BATHURST to-night made the terrific
announcement that in some parts of the country Masters of Hounds are--shooting foxes.

"This brings the War home," said FERDINAND THE FEARFUL when he heard the news.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It was agreed to express satisfaction with the announcement that
    the price fixed for the potato crop of 1917 was not a miximum
    price."--Scots Paper.

This must be the happy mean of which we hear so much.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RECENT TRUCE.

Students of geography know that Ballybun is divided from the back gardens of Kilterash by the
pellucid waters of that noble stream, the Bun, which hurls itself over a barrier of old tin-cans
in a frantic effort to find the sea. But they do not know that this physical division, long
ago bridged, is nothing to the moral and political division which will keep the two for ever
asunder.

Several of our younger citizens have written to me from the trenches to ask how the War is
progressing. I have usually in reply quoted the remark of one of their number on leaving us
for the Front after a short holiday, that he was now looking forward to a little peace and
rest. I wish here to add a postscript to this concerning a recent unexpected truce.

Political geography is not written as it should be, so that there may be people who have not
even heard of the Great War between Ballybun and Kilterash. No one knows for certain when it
started, or why. A local antiquary, after prolonged study of chronicles, memorials, rolls and
records, to say nothing of local churchyards, refers it with some confidence to the reign of
HENRY II. (LOUIS VII. being King of France, in the pontificate of ADRIAN IV. and so on), and
to the forcible abduction of a pig (called the White Pearl) by the then ruling monarch of Kilterash.
The Editor of The Kilterash Curfew, in one of his recent "Readings for the Day of Rest," remarked
that Christian charity compelled him to hurl this foul aspersion back in the teeth of this
so-called antiquary; the whole world knew that the pig had been born in the parish of Kilterash,
but had "strayed" across the Bun, as things too often had the habit of straying.

I am the "so-called antiquary." My little pamphlet proves in less than three hundred pages
the truth of my allegation concerning the abduction of the White Pearl, giving the original
texts on which I rely and the genealogies of all concerned in a sordid story.

Since 1157, as far as history records, we have been afflicted with only two periods of truce.
One was when, on hearing of the foul wrong done by the German Brute in Belgium, we united in
enlisting recruits for our local regiment. This truce was broken by my worthy friend, the Editor
of The Curfew, who pointed out, more in anger than in sorrow, that Ballybun had sent six men
fewer than Kilterash. The second truce--again broken by the enemy--concerned myself. Wishing
to add, if possible, to the evidence from monuments contained in my pamphlet, I was copying
an inscription I had only just discovered in the disused churchyard of Killyburnbrae, when
one of these light Atlantic showers sprang up and soaked me to the backbone. The result was
influenza and a high temperature, which rose while I was reading The Curfew upon my brochure,
"The White Pearl of Ballybun, an Impartial Examination with the Original Documents herein set
out and now for the first time deciphered by a Member of the Society of Antiquarians. Dedicated
to All Lovers of the Truth. Printed by the Ballybun Binnacle Press."

The Curfew said of this fair statement of the evidence (with the original documents, mind you)
that it smacked of German scholarship and their graveyard style of doing things. My blood boiled
at this, and to keep me cool my niece, who lives with me, pulled down all the blinds, as the
sun was strong.

An old fish-woman passing by saw this and said, "Well, well, the poor old fellow's gone at
last! A decent man in his time, with no taste in fish! We must all come to it." From her the
news spread forty miles on either side of her and reached the Editor of The Curfew in the middle
of a philippic. Next morning I was astounded to read in his editorial columns: "Our distinguished
neighbour and friend--if he will allow us to call him so--is now no more; in other words is
gone ... as VIRGIL remarks ... famous antiquarian ... scrupulous and methodical, and, as we
remarked in our last issue, reminiscent of the palmy days of the best German monumental scholarship
... our slight differences never affected the esteem in which we held him as a patriot, citizen,
ratepayer and Man...."

Now this was kindly and fair. I have written to my worthy friend and have proposed to dedicate
to him my forthcoming work (non-partisan) on the "Slant Observable in Some Church-Spires, Part
I." When he had to unbury me, war had to be resumed--it was his side that insisted upon it--but
as far as the two chieftains are concerned it is a war without bitterness. He now introduces
his attacks with "Our honoured and able antiquarian friend"; while my answers breathe such
sentiments as "The genial editor of that well-conducted organ."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AS YOU WERE.

    "Blow to Narkets. Rise of nearly 400 points. Cotton jump.
    Germany's note breaks the market."

    Liverpool Echo, Feb. 1.

    "Blow to Markets. Fall of nearly 400 points. Cotton slump."

    Same Paper, Later Edition.

In spite of this sensational transformation of a jump into a slump we are glad to see that
typographically at any rate the markets had recovered a little from their early derangement.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Supposing a man has porridge and bacon for breakfast and a cut
    from the point or a shop or steak for luncheon he may find that he
    has consumed his meat allowance for the day."

    Daily Mail (Manchester Edition).

Is not the food problem sufficiently difficult already without these additional complications?
The man who wants a whole shop for his luncheon will get no sympathy from us.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a list of Canon MASTERMAN'S lectures on "The War and the Smaller Nations of Europe":--

    "April 2nd (possibly), 'The Reconstruction of Europe.'"--Western
    Morning News.

We commend the lecturer's caution, but hope it will prove to have been superfluous.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A FORWARD MINX.

The garden wall was high, yet not so high but that any young lady bent on attracting the notice
of her neighbours could look over it. Miss Dot indeed regarded an outside flight of steps which
led to an upper storey as an appointed amelioration to the hours which she was expected to
spend in the garden, for it was an easy scramble from the stairs to the top of the wall, whence
she could survey the world. To be sure the wall was narrow as well as high, but a timorous
gait shows off a pretty figure, and slight nervousness adds a pathetic expression to a pretty
face; to both of which advantages Dot was not, it is to be believed, altogether indifferent
when khaki coats dwelt the other side of that wall.

On this particular day she was trying to attract notice in so unrestrained a manner that her
mother remarked it from an upper window. But mothers, we are told in these latter days, are
not always the wisest guardians of their "flapper" daughters. This mother had a decided penchant
for a khaki coat herself; only she demanded braid on the cuff and a smartly cut collar, and
these she would greet in the street with a tender act of homage which rarely failed to win
admiring attention. But for a daughter who would dash down the road after a Tommy she had contempt
rather than disapproval. So she watched with interest, but, alas! with no idea of interference.

At first there were only "civvies" about, and though the admiration of any youthful male was
dear to Dot's heart, and though chaff and blandishments were not wanting, still the wall was
high, and she lacked the resolve to descend. But presently two khaki coats appeared and the
matter grew more serious. It was evident that it was not principle or modesty that held her
back, but just timidity, for she responded eagerly to the advances of her admirers, but could
not quite pluck up courage for that long jump down. Affairs grew shameless, for the khaki coats
fetched a ladder to assist the elopement; but Dot made it clear that there were difficulties
in that method of flight, though she wished there were not. At last she was enticed to a lower
portion of the wall, and there, half screened by shrubs, she was lifted off by the shoulders,
deliciously reluctant, and received into the cordial embrace of an enthusiastic soldiery.

And her mother retired to the sofa!

Shortly afterwards musketry instruction was proceeding in a public place; and behind the little
group of learners sat Dot, in the seventh heaven of joy, drinking it all in with eager attention.
And the instructing officer did not seem to mind.

"How sad and mad and bad it was," a theme for the moralist, the conscientious objector, the
Army reformer, the social reformer, the statistician. Yet perhaps even their solemn faces might
relax to-day at the sight of a long-legged Airedale puppy marching at the head of the battalion
to which she has appointed herself mascot.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUIS CUSTODIET?

    "Engineer desires position as Manager of Works Manager."--The
    Aeroplane.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "---- and Sons will sell by Auction four Shorthand and Jersey
    Cows."

    Morning Paper.

As the FOOD CONTROLLER'S Department is said to be still short of clerks, he may like to bid
for these accomplished creatures.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"FELIX GETS A MONTH."

This "whimsical comedy," made by Mr. LEON M. LION out of a novel by the late TOM GALLON, began
in a distinctly intriguing mood. Felix had an uncle, a sport, on whom he had once played a
scurvy practical joke. This highly tolerant victim eventually cut up for a round million, which
he left to nephew Felix on condition that he should enter Umberminster as naked as the day
he was born and earn his living therein for a full calendar month--a palpable posthumous hit
to the old man. Felix accordingly, equipped as laid down in the will, is left by the family
solicitor in a wood, and, after a night and a day in hiding, appears shivering at the Mayor's
parlour window, abstracts a rug for temporary relief, and prevails upon the maid, a romantic
little orphan (who had been reading about river-gods and mistakes Felix for one), to borrow
a suit of the Mayor's clothes--into which he gets in time to interview that worthy when he
returns with his grim lady. "You'll get a month," says she with damnable iteration; and the
resourceful Felix, with an eye to the whimsical will, whimsically suggests that justice would
be better fulfilled by his putting in the month at the Mayor's house as odd-job man than by
his being conveyed to the county jail. And the Mayor whimsically agrees.

After that, I regret to say, honest whimsicality took wing, and the show became merely--shall
we say?--eupeptic. And certainly a much more elaborate meal than my lord DEVONPORT allowed
me would be required to induce a mood sufficiently tolerant to face without impatience the
welter which followed. The three incredible people--mercenary virgin, heavy father and aimless
smiling villain--that walked straight out of the Elephant and Castle into the Second Act were
not, I suspect, any elaborate (and quite irrelevant) joke of the actor-author's at the expense
of the transpontine method, but just queer puppets brought on to disentangle the complications,
though I confess I half thought that the villain, Mr. LAWRENCE LEYTON, was pulling our legs
with a quite deliberate burlesque. On the whole I am afraid this play is but another wreck
on that old snag of the dramatised novel.

But there were plenty of isolated good things, such as Mr. O.B. CLARENCE'S really excellent
Mayor, puzzled, pompous, eagle-pecked. Miss FLORENCE IVOR, the eagle in question, gave a shrewd
and shrewish portrait of a wife gey ill to live with. Mr. REGINALD BACH'S very entertaining
imaginary portrait of a faithful boy scout was a stroke of genius, his "call of the wild" being
by far the best whim of the evening. Miss EVA LEONARD-BOYNE as Ninetta, the orphan, did her
little job tenderly and prettily, but I couldn't believe in Ninetta in that galley, and I doubt
if she did. Mr. GORDON ASH was the debonair hero. I do most solemnly entreat him to consider
the example of some of the elders in his profession who have adopted a laugh as their principal
bit of business. It may turn into a millstone. Was he not laughing the same laugh on this very
stage in a very different part three days ago? He was. If he got a month, laugh-barred, he
would profit by the sentence. For he has jolly good stuff in him.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE COMMANDEERING.

From a report of the PRIME MINISTER'S speech at Carnarvon:--

    "There are eight million houses in this country. Let us have
    VICTORY GUM FACTORY, Nelson, Lancs."--Daily Dispatch.

But surely he does not want to be known as "The Stickit Minister."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A grocer in a London suburb complains that on Saturday he and his
    staff were 'run o ffthei rlegs by the extraordinary demands of
    customers.'"--Westminster Gazette.

We congratulate the printer on his gallant effort to depict the situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted, Cook Generals, House Parlourmaids; fiends might
    suit."--Irish Paper.

Discussion of the eternal servant problem is apt to be one-sided; it was quite time that we
heard from the advocatus diaboli.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO STEPHEN LEACOCK

    (Professor of Political Economy at McGill University, Montreal,
    and author of "Further Foolishness" and other notable works of
    humour).

  The life that is flagrantly double,
    Conflicting in conduct and aim,
  Is seldom untainted by trouble
    And commonly closes in shame;
  But no such anxieties pester
    Your dual existence, which links
  The functions of don and of jester--
        High thought and high jinks.

  Your earliest venture perhaps is
    Unique in the rapture intense
  Displayed in these riotous Lapses
    From all that could savour of sense,
  Recalling the "goaks" and the gladness
    Of one whom we elders adored--
  The methodical midsummer madness
        Of ARTEMUS WARD.

  With you, O enchanting Canadian,
    We laughed till you gave us a stitch
  In our sides at the wondrous Arcadian
    Exploits of the indolent rich;
  We loved your satirical sniping,
    And followed, far over "the pond,"
  The lure of your whimsical piping
        Behind the Beyond.

  In place of the squalor that stretches
    Unchanged o'er the realist's page,
  The sunshine that glows in your Sketches
    Is potent our griefs to assuage;
  And when, on your mettlesome charger,
    Full tilt against reason you go,
  Your Lunacy's finer and Larger
        Than any I know.

  The faults of ephemeral fiction,
    Exotic, erotic or smart,
  The vice of delirious diction,
    The latest excesses of Art--
  You flay in felicitous fashion,
    With dexterous choice of your tools,
  A scourge for unsavoury passion,
        A hammer for fools.

  And yet, though so freakish and dashing,
    You are not the slave of your fun,
  For there's nobody better at lashing
    The crimes and the cant of the Hun;
  Anyhow, I'd be proud as a peacock
    To have it inscribed on my tomb:
  "He followed the footsteps of LEACOCK
        In banishing gloom."

       *       *       *       *       *

From an Indian clerk's letter to his employer:--

    "I am glad that the War is progressing very favourably for the
    Allies. We long for the day when, according to Lord Curzon's
    saying, 'The Bengal Lancers will petrol the streets of Berlin.'"

Quite the right spirit.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

It may be as well for me to confess at once the humiliating fact that I am not, and never have
been, an Etonian. If that be a serious disqualification for life in general, how much more
serious must it be for the particular task of reviewing a book which is of Eton all compact,
a book, for example, like Memories of Eton Sixty Years Ago, by A.C. AINGER, with contributions
from N.G. LYTTELTON and JOHN MURRAY (MURRAY). For I have never been "up to" anybody; I have
never been present at "absence"; I have no real understanding of the difference between a "tutor"
and a "dame"; I call a "p[oe]na" by the plebeian name of "imposition"; and, until I had read
Mr. AINGERS'S book, I had never heard of the verb "to brosier" or the noun substantive "bever."
Altogether my condition is most deplorable. Yet there are some alleviations in my lot, and
one of them has been the reading of this delightful book. I found it most interesting, and
can easily imagine how Etonians will be absorbed in it, for it will revive for them many an
old and joyful memory of the days that are gone. Mr. AINGER discourses, with a mitis sapientia
that is very attractive, on the fashions and manners of the past and the gradual process of
their development into the Eton of the present. He is proud, as every good Etonian must be,
of Eton as it exists, but now and again he hints that the Eton of an older time was in some
respects a simpler and a better place. The mood, however, never lasts long, and no one can
quarrel with the way in which it is expressed. General LYTTELTON, too, in one of his contributions,
relates how on his return from a long stay in India he visited Eton, expecting to be modestly
welcomed by shy and ingenuous youths, and how, instead, he was received and patronised by young
but sophisticated men of the world. The GENERAL, I gather, was somewhat chilled by his experience.
Altogether this book is emphatically one without which no Etonian's library can be considered
complete.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps of all our War correspondents Mr. PHILIP GIBBS contrives to give in his despatches
the liveliest sense of the movement, the pageantry and the abominable horror of war. Pageantry
there is, for all the evil boredom and weariness of this pit-and-ditch business, and Mr. GIBBS
sees finely and has an honest pen that avoids the easy cliché. You might truthfully describe
his book, The Battles of the Somme (HEINEMANN), as an epic of the New Armies. He never seems
to lose his wonder at their courage and their spirit, and always with an undercurrent of sincerely
modest apology for his own presence there with his notebook, a mere chronicler of others' gallantry.
This chronicle begins at the glorious 1st of July and ends just before Beaumont-Hamel, which
the author miserably missed, being sent home on sick leave. It is a book that may well be one
of those preserved and read a generation hence by men who want to know what the great War was
really like. God knows it ought to help them to do something to prevent another. Yet there
is nothing morbid in it. As the sergeant thigh-deep in a flooded trench said, "You know, Sir,
it doesn't do to take this war seriously." The armies of a nation that takes its pleasures
sadly take their bitter pains with a grin; and that grin is what has made them such an unexpectedly
tough proposition to the All-Seriousest.

       *       *       *       *       *

An old adage warns us never to buy a "pig in a poke." Equally good advice for the heroines
of fiction or drama would be never under any circumstances to marry a bridegroom in a mask.
In more cases than I can recall, neglect of this simple precaution has led to a peck of trouble.
I am thinking now of Yvonne, leading lady in The Mark of Vraye (HUTCHINSON). I admit that poor
Yvonne had more excuse than most. Hers was what you might call a hard case. On the one hand
there was the villain Philippe, a most naughty man, swearing that she was in his power, and
calling for instant marriage at the hands of Father Simon, who happened to be present. On the
other hand, the gentleman in the mask revealed a pair of eyes that poor Yvonne rashly supposed
to belong to someone for whom she had more than a partiality. So when he suggested that the
proposed ceremony should take place during Philippe's temporary absence from the stage, with
himself as substitute, Yvonne (astonished perhaps at her own luck so early in the plot) simply
jumped at the idea. Then, of course, the deed being done, off comes the mask, and behold the
triumphant countenance of her bitterest foe, Charles de Montbrison, whom she herself had disfigured
as the (supposed) murderer of her brother. Act drop and ten minutes' interval. Need I detail
for you the subsequent course of this marriage of inconvenience? The courage and magnanimity
of one side, the feminine cruelty melting at last to love, and finally the inevitable duologue
of reconciliation, through which I can never help hearing the rustle of opera-cloaks and the
distant cab-whistles. Charming, charming. Mr. H.B. SOMERVILLE has furnished a pleasant entertainment,
and one that (like all good readers or spectators) you will enjoy none the less because of
its entire familiarity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Flight of Mariette (CHAPMAN AND HALL) is a slender volume, whose simplicity gives it a
poignancy both incongruous and grim. Much of it you might compare to the diary of a butterfly
before and whilst being broken on the wheel. Mariette, the jolly little maid of Antwerp, was
so tender and harmless a butterfly; and the machine that broke her life and drove her to the
martyrdom of exile was so huge and cruel a thing. How cruel in its effects it is well for us
just now to be again reminded, lest, in these days of hurrying horrors, remembrance should
be weakened. To that extent therefore Miss GERTRUDE E.M. VAUGHAN has done good service in compiling
this human document of accusation. In a preface Mr. JOHN GALSWORTHY pleads the cause of our
refugee guests, not so much for charity as for comprehension. Certainly, The Flight of Mariette
will do much to further such understanding. I think I need only add that half the proceeds
of its sale will go to feed the seven million Belgians still in Belgium (prey to the twin wolves
of Prussia and starvation) for you to see that three shillings and sixpence could hardly be
better used than in the purchase of a copy.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was beginning to wonder whether Mr. EDEN PHILLPOTTS was suffering from writer's cramp, so
much longer than usual does it seem since I heard from him. Now, however, my anxiety is relieved
by My Devon Year (SCOTT), a delightful book which could have come from no other pen than his.
It is a marvel how many fragrant things he still finds to say, and with what inexhaustible
freshness, about his beloved county. I hesitate to give these sketches an indiscriminate recommendation,
because to those who walk through the country with closed eyes they will have little or no
meaning; but if you are in love with beauty and can appreciate its translation into exquisite
language you will draw from them a real and lasting joy. Let me confess now that I once asked
Mr. PHILLPOTTS to give Devonshire a rest, and that I accept My Devon Year as a convincing proof
that this request was ill-considered.

       *       *       *       *       *

I wish Mr. DOUGLAS SLADEN would not throw so many bouquets at his characters. Roger Wynyard,
the hero of Grace Lorraine (HUTCHINSON), was really just a very ordinary youth, but when I
discovered that he was "the fine flower of our Public-School system," "as chivalrous as a Bayard,"
and so forth, I began--unfairly, perhaps, but quite irresistibly--to entertain a considerable
prejudice against him. Let me hasten, however, to add that Mr. SLADEN has packed his novel
with the kind of incident which appeals to the popular mind, though his conclusion may cause
a shock to those who think that our divorce-laws are in need of reform. In the matter of style
Mr. SLADEN is content with something short of perfection. "It was easier for her to forgive
a man, with his happy-go-lucky nature, for getting into trouble, than to forgive his getting
out again by not being sufficiently careful not to add to the other person's misfortune." For
myself, I do not find it so easy to forgive these happy-go-lucky methods in a writer who ought
to know better by now.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WAR LOAN; A LAST APPEAL.

  Now, by the memory of our gallant dead,
    And by our hopes of peace through victory won,
  Lend of your substance; let it not be said
          You left your part undone.

