The grand and distinguishing merit of the Panorama at the Colosseum is, however, of a higher
order than we have yet pointed out to the reader. It has the unusual interest of picturesque
effect with the most scrupulous accuracy; and, in illustration of the latter excellence, so
plain are the principal streets in the view, that thousands of visitors will be able to identify
their own dwellings. We have termed this an unusual effect, because we are accustomed to view
panoramas as fine productions of art, with fascinating and novel contrasts, and altogether
as beautiful pictures; but pleasing as may be their effect on the spectator, it must fall very
short of the intense interest created by the topographical or map-like accuracy of Mr. Hornor's
picture, which is correct even to the most minute point of detail. Thousands of spectators
will therefore become rivetted by some particular objects, for every Londoner can name a score
of sites which are endeared to him by some grateful recollections and associations of his life;
whilst our country friends will be lost in admiration at the immense knot of dwellings, till
they contrive to pick their road back to their inn or temporary abode in this queen of cities.
In order to court the rigorous inspection of the most critical visiters, engraved sections
of the various parts of the picture, numbered and described, will be placed in the compartments
to which the panorama corresponds; and for still further gratification, glasses will he placed
in the gallery, by which houses at the distance of ten or twelve miles from the city may easily
be discerned. All this amounts to microscopic painting, or the most elaborate mosaic-work of art.

The effect of the near houses, or those in the immediate vicinity of St. Paul's, is very striking;
and the perspective and effect of light and shade of the campanile towers in front of the cathedral
are admirably managed.

It seems scarcely possible for painting to achieve anything nearer to reality than has been
effected in the union of the projecting portions and the flat surface of the picture--an effect
which will be hailed with enthusiasm by the spectator. This part is the work of Mr. Paris,
"of whose talents and valuable assistance in the execution of the painting," says a writer
in the Times, "the proprietor speaks in terms of generous enthusiasm, which are well deserved,
and equally honourable to both parties." Another critical writer, in the Weekly Review, likewise,
pays a deserved tribute to the genius of Mr. Paris, in his share of the painting. He says,
"The spectator who shall view this magnificent Panorama, without being previously informed
of the difficulties with which the able and indefatigable artist, Mr. E.T. Paris, had to contend,
however he may be struck with the tout ensemble, will hardly be able to appreciate the merit
of the work. In the first place, as no one individual could accomplish such an undertaking
in a sufficiently short period, many artists were necessarily employed; each of these had his
own peculiar style, and taste, and notions, which of course he would not depart from; when
each of the assistant artists, therefore, had finished his part, it was necessary for Mr. Paris
to go himself over the whole, retouch everything, and reduce the various parts into harmony
with each other. This he has effected in the most admirable manner, so that, at present the
productions of numerous dissimilar pencils appear like the creation of one man. Another, and
perhaps still greater difficulty, was to preserve the true perspective from so elevated and
novel a point of view, and on curved canvass; for, by the closing of the dome, that part of
the picture upon which the greatest distance was to be represented, is in reality placed nearest
to the spectator. We must observe, however, that these difficulties have all been surmounted,
and that the illusion is most complete."

Our limits advise us to quit the principal building, or that appropriated to the panoramic
view, especially as we cannot convey to the reader an indistinct notion of the curious stair-work,
machinery, and carpentry of the ascents, &c. We were induced to ascend to the exterior, but
the mid-day smoke of the town, and the heavy fog of the day, spoiled our view. Had it not been
so, the numerous buildings below, with the gardens, &c. would have reminded us that much yet
remained to be seen. We hastened down the staircase, as quickly as the loop-hole light would
allow, (for this part is to be lit with gas,) and returned to the front court by the large
door at which we entered. In the entrance-hall are two aloes in tubs, one of them of noble
size, and we could not help contrasting this single triumph of Nature with the little world
of art we had just been exploring; and our train of reflection was unbroken on our entering
by the left-hand lodge-door, a range of arched conservatories, in the centre of one of which
is a Camellia Japonica, which produces thirty varieties of flower, and is, perhaps, the most
magnificent specimen in England. Already here are several rare and beautiful plants--a large
proportion of exotics, and some of the most curious plants of this country's growth. In the
centre of one of the chambers is a circular tank of water, surrounded by small jets, which
are to raise their streams so as to form a round case of water, within which are to be aquatic
plants, &c. At the end of this room aviaries are in preparation.

Hence we ascended into a beautiful reading-room, with French windows and rusticated Gothic
verandas. The artistes were here busy in hanging the walls, &c. with green damask moreen. The
next room in the suite will be a library of beautiful proportions; and beyond this will be
another room equally splendid, besides numerous other smaller apartments, in all numbering
thirty. The object of this part of the building is to afford to subscribers all the advantages
of a club and a reading-room, combined with the novel and luxurious conveniences of the establishment.
We now come to what appears to us the bijou of the whole. A passage leads from the saloon to
a suite of small chambers, representing a Swiss cottage. One of these rooms is finished. It
is wainscotted with coloured (knotted) wood, and carved in imitation of the fanciful interior
of the dwellings of the Swiss mountaineers. The immense projecting chimney, its capacious corners,
and the stupendous fire-dogs, are truly characteristic charms of cottage life; and the illusion
is not a little enhanced by the prospect from the windows, consisting of terrific rocks and
caverns,[3] among which a cascade is to fall from an immense height into a lake, which is to
spread immediately beneath the windows. The water is not yet admitted here; but from some successful
specimens of this branch of art, which we have seen, we are induced to think the Swiss cottage
and its scenery will be very attractive. The exterior of the dwelling, with its broad eaves,
&c. is beautifully picturesque; and the interior, supplied with a suite of rustic furniture,
is even sufficiently unique for the recherché taste of Mr. Hope.

This is but an imperfect outline of the ingenious works which are now just finishing at the
Colosseum. The undertaking, as the name imports, is one of the most gigantic enterprises for
public gratification which it has ever been our lot to witness; but great as may be the capital
already expended here, and indefatigable as have been the exertions of the proprietor during
the last seven years, it is almost impossible that such genius should not be amply remunerated.
As a concentration of every refined amusement and luxurious comfort which the taste of the
times can dictate, the Colosseum will doubtless be without a rival in Europe. The charms of
useful and elegant literature will here alternate with the exquisite masterpieces of modern
art--and to aid these attractions, the pure pleasures of the garden and green-house, and studies
from the wild and wonderful of sublime nature--will be superadded. The extent occupied by the
requisite buildings, &c. is, as we were informed, little short of five acres.

To conclude, the Colosseum will very shortly be opened to the public. In the meantime, such
persons as wish, may be gratified with a private view of the works in their present state,
on terms which have already been announced by the proprietor.

    [2] It may be a test of the length of the reader's acquaintance
    with the MIRROR--but at page 450, vol. i. he will find a brief
    account of the means by which Mr. Hornor completed his sketches
    for the Panorama--his erection of an observatory--and a faint
    idea of the extreme perils, all which did not daunt the fearless
    mind of this aspiring artist. Mr. Britton says the sketches made
    for the projected picture, occupied 2,000 sheets of paper!

    [3] Mimic rocks and stones may be wrought into sublime effect;
    and have often been introduced into landscape-gardening with
    striking success.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ----

(For the Mirror.)

  Yes! tis to thee love
  I waken the string:
  Yes! 'tis to thee love
  I only would sing;
  And in thine eyes love,
  I ask but to shine;
  With softest affection,
  As thou dost in mine.

  Dearest and kindest,
  I ask but to be
  Cherished by thee love,
  As thou art by me;
  Then shall our moments
  Glide sunnily o'er.
  And blest with each other,
  We sigh for no more.

  Wife of thy bosom,
  By thee loved alone,
  No dearer blessing
  This proud world can own:
  All its attractions
  Delighted I'll fly,
  For thee love, to live,
  And with thee love to die!

H.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIEROGLYPHICAL CHARACTERS.

(For the Mirror.)

Hieroglyphics consist in certain symbols which are made to stand for invisible objects, on
account of some analogy which such symbols were supposed to bear to the objects. Egypt was
the country where this sort of writing was most studied, and brought into a regular science.
In hieroglyphics was conveyed all the boasted knowledge of their priests. According to the
properties which they ascribed to animals, they chose them to be the emblems of moral objects.
Thus ingratitude was expressed by a viper; imprudence, by a fly; wisdom, by an ant; knowledge,
by an eye; eternity, by a circle which has neither beginning nor end; a man universally shunned,
by an eel, which they supposed to be found with no other fish. Sometimes they joined two or
more of these characters together, as a serpent with a hawk's head, denoted nature, with God
presiding over it.

INA.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

BULL-FIGHTS AT LIMA.

From General Miller's Memoirs. Second edition.

The taste for bull-fights, introduced by the early Spaniards, is retained by their American
descendants with undiminished ardour. The announcement of an exhibition of this kind produces
a state of universal excitement. The streets are thronged, and the population of the surrounding
country, dressed in their gayest attire, add to the multitudes of the city. The sport is conducted
with an éclat that exceeds the bull-fights in every other part of South America, and perhaps
even surpasses those of Madrid. The death of the bull, when properly managed, creates as much
interest in the ladies of Lima, as the death of the hare to the English huntress, or the winning
horse to the titled dames at Newmarket or Doncaster. Nor can the pugilistic fancy of England
take a deeper interest in the event of a prize-fight, than the gentlemen of Lima in the scientific
worrying of a bull. It is curious to observe how various are ideas of cruelty in different
countries. The English, for instance, exclaim against the barbarity of the bull-fight, as compared
with the noble sport of cock-fighting, badger-baiting, &c. But their enlightened horror could
not exceed the disgust shown by a young South American, who witnessed a casual boxing-match
between two boys in Hyde Park, surrounded and encouraged, as he expressed himself, by well-dressed
barbarians. It is amusing to witness the complacency with which one nation accuses another
of cruelty, without taking a glance at customs at home. The bulls destined for the ring are
obtained principally from the woods in the valleys of Chincha, where they are bred in a wild
state. To catch and drive them to Lima, a distance of sixty leagues, is a matter of no inconsiderable
expense. A bull is given by each gremio, or incorporated trading company of the city. The gremios
vie in decorating their donation, which is bedizened with ribbons and flowers; across its shoulders
are suspended mantles richly embroidered with the arms of the gremio to which it belongs, all
of which become the perquisite of the Toreador or Matador who slays the bull. The price of
admission is four reals, or two shillings; but an additional charge is made for seats in the
boxes; and the managers pay a considerable tax to government on every performance. Early in
the afternoon of the day fixed upon for a bull-fight, every street leading to the amphitheatre
is crowded with carriages, horsemen, and pedestrians. All are in the highest state of excitement,
the highest glee, and in full dress. The business of the ring commences, about 2 p.m. by a
curious sort of prelude. A company of soldiers perform a despejo, or a military pantomime.
The men having been previously drilled for that purpose, go through a variety of fanciful evolutions,
forming the Roman and Greek crosses, stars, and figures, so describing a sentence, such as
viva la patria, viva San Martin, or the name of any other person who happens to be at the head
of the government. As a finale, the soldiers form a circle, face outwards, then advance towards
the boxes, preserving their circular order, which they extend, until they approach close enough
to climb up to the benches. Every movement is made to the sound of the drum; the effect is
exceedingly good. A band of music is likewise in attendance, and plays at intervals. The prelude
being over, six or seven toreador enter the arena on foot, dressed in silk jackets of different
colours, richly spangled or bordered with gold or silver lace. One or two of these men, and
who are called matadores, are pardoned criminals, and they receive a considerable sum for every
bull they kill. About the same time various amateurs, well mounted on steeds gaily caparisoned,
fancifully and tastefully attired, present themselves. When all is prepared, a door is opened
under the box occupied by the municipality, and a bull rushes from a pen. At first he gazes
about as if in surprise, but is soon put upon his mettle, by the waving of flags and the throwing
of darts, crackers, and other annoyances. The amateur cavaliers display their horsemanship
and skill in provoking and in eluding his vengeance, in order to catch the eye of some favourite
fair one, and to gain the applause of their friends and the audience. They infuriate the animal
by waving a mantle over his head, and when pursued they do not allow their horses to advance
more than a few inches from the horns of the angry bull. When at full speed, they make their
horse revolve upon his hind legs, and remain in readiness to make a second turn upon the animal.
This operation is several times repeated with equal agility and boldness, and is called capear.
The amateurs then promenade around to acknowledge the plaudits bestowed. This species of sparring
on horseback with the bull, is practised only in South America. Indeed in no other part of
the world is the training of the horses, or the dexterity of the horseman, equal to the performance
of such exploits. Effigies made of skin and filled with wind, and others made of straw, in
which are live birds, are placed in the arena. The bull tosses them in the air, but being made
heavy at the base, they come to the ground always retaining an upright posture. The straw figures
are furnished with fire-works, which are made to take fire when the birds escape from within,
and it sometimes happens that the bull has the flaming and cracking figure upon his horns.
Sometimes the bull is maddened by fire-works being fastened on him, which go off in succession.
The crackers being expended, the animal usually stands gazing around with rolling tongue, panting
sides, and eyes sparkling with rage. He is then faced by the principal matador, who holds a
straight sword in one hand and a flag in the other; as the bull runs at him with full speed,
the matador coolly, but with great celerity, takes one step to the left, holding the flag just
over the spot he occupied when the bull took aim. Being foiled, the bull wheels round, and
charges his tormentor a second time, who again skilfully eludes being caught on the horns:
this is repeated about three times, to the great delight of the audience. At length the matador
assumes a sort of fencing attitude, and at the critical moment, plunges his sword into the
bull's neck, near to its shoulders, when it falls dead at his feet. Handkerchiefs are waved,
and applauding shouts resound from every side. Four horses richly harnessed then appear. The
dead bull is quickly fixed to traces, and dragged out at a gallop, cheered by continued acclamations.

  "Four steeds that spurn the rein, as swift as shy,
  Hurl the dark bulk along, scarce seen in dashing by."

  BYRON.

Other bulls are killed in the same way by successive matadores. One is generally despatched
by means of a long knife grasped by the matador, so that when his arm is extended, the blade
is perpendicular to the wrist. The bull being worried for a time, the matador, instead of receiving
him on the point of a sword as before, steps one pace aside as the bull runs at him, and adroitly
plunges the knife into the spinal marrow behind the horns, and the animal drops dead instantaneously.
Another bull is next attacked by mounted picadores, armed with lances. Their legs are protected
by padding. Their horses are of little value, and cannot easily get out of the way of the bull.
Neither do the riders often attempt it; to do so being considered cowardly. The consequence
is, the horses generally receive a mortal gore; part of their entrails are frequently torn
out, and exhibit a most disgusting spectacle. The riders run considerable risk, for their lances
are inadequate to killing the bull, which after being gored and mangled, is finally despatched
by a matador.

The next bull, as he sallies from the pen, is encountered by six or eight Indians with short
lances, who kneel down like the front rank of a battalion to receive a cavalry charge. One
or two Indians are usually tossed; the others follow up the bull, and when he turns upon them,
they drop on one knee and receive him as before. They are seldom able to despatch him, and
a matador steps forward to end his sufferings. Some of the Indians are often much hurt: they
invariably make themselves half drunk before they enter the circus, alleging that they can
fight the bull better when they see double. Again, another bull is let into the ring for the
lanzada, or trial of the lance, the handle of which is very long and strong, fixed into a wooden
socket secured to the ground, and supported by an Indian torrero. The head of the lance is
a long blade of highly tempered steel; and made sharp as a razor. Before the bull is permitted
to leave the pen, he is rendered furious by a variety of torments. When he has been sufficiently
maddened, the doors are thrown open, and the animal makes a rush at the Indian, who is dressed
in scarlet, and directs the lance as he kneels on the ground. The raging bull runs at him;
but he steadily points the lance, so as to receive the bull on its point. Such is the force
with which he plunges at his opponent, that the lance generally enters at the head, and breaking
through skull and bones, comes out at the sides or back. Finally, a bull with tail erect, comes
bellowing and bounding in, with a man strapped on his back. The animal jumps and capers about,
making every effort to rid himself of his burthen, to the no small amusement of the spectators.
The rider at length loosens the straps, and the bull is attacked on all sides by amateurs and
matadores on foot and on horseback. When a matador has killed a bull, he bows to the government
box, then to the municipality, and then all around, receiving plaudits in proportion to the
skill he has shown, and the sport he has afforded. Advancing then to the box of the municipality,
he receives his reward from one of the members, who is appointed as judge on the occasion,
which consists of a few dollars thrown into the arena. When the spectators are particularly
gratified by the performance, they also throw money into the ring.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.

ANECDOTES OF CELEBRATED AUTHORS, FRENCH AND ITALIAN.

Crebillon's manner of life was extremely singular. He slept little, and lay very hard; he was
always surrounded with about thirty cats and dogs; and used to smoke tobacco, to keep his room
sweet against their exhalations. Being one day asked, in a large company, which of his works
he thought the best? "I don't know," answered he, "which is my best production; but this (pointing
to his son, who was present) is certainly my worst." "It is," replied the son, with vivacity,
"because no Carthusian had a hand in it," alluding to the report that the best passages in
his father's tragedies had been written by a Carthusian friar, who was his friend.

Molieres, the celebrated French priest and mathematician, was a very irritable man, which led
him frequently into passions, of which one was the cause of his death in 1742. In other respects
he was reckoned a very amiable character; but was apt to be so absent, or absorbed in his studies,
as to appear almost wholly insensible to surrounding objects. His infirmity in this respect
became known, and he was accordingly made the subject of depredations. A shoe-black once finding
him profoundly absorbed in a reverie, contrived to steal the silver buckles from his shoes,
replacing them with iron ones. At another time, while at his studies, a villain broke into
the room in which he was sitting, and demanded his money; Molieres, without rising from his
studies, or giving any alarm, coolly showed him where it was, requesting him, as a great favour,
that he would not derange his papers.

Ariosto, the celebrated Italian poet, being asked why he had not built his house in a more
magnificent manner, and more suitable to the noble descriptions which he had given of sumptuous
palaces, beautiful porticoes, and pleasant fountains, in his Orlando Furioso, he replied, "that
words were combined together with less expense than stones." To such a degree was he charmed
with his own verse, and so much did he also excel in his manner of reading, that he was always
disgusted if he heard his own writings repeated with an ill grace and accent. Accordingly,
it is said, that, when he accidentally heard a potter singing a stanza of his Orlando in an
incorrect and ungraceful manner, he was so incensed, that he rushed into his shop and broke
several of the pots which were exposed to sale; when the potter expostulated with him for this
unprovoked injury, Ariosto replied, "I indeed have broken half a dozen of your pots, which
are not worth so many halfpence, and you have spoiled a stanza of mine, which is worth a considerable
sum of gold." He was so attached to a plain and frugal mode of life, that he says of himself
in one of his poems, "that he was a fit person to have lived in the world when acorns were
the food of mankind." His constitution was delicate and infirm; and, notwithstanding his temperance
and general abstemiousness, his health was often interrupted. He bore his last sickness with
uncommon resolution and serenity; affirming, "that he was willing to die on many accounts,
and particularly because he found that the greatest divines were of opinion that we shall know
one another in the other world;" and he observed to those who were with him, "that many of
his friends were departed, whom he desired to visit, and that he thought every moment tedious
till he gained that happiness."

Dante, the celebrated Italian poet, has been described by Boccacio, as of a middle stature,
of a pensive and melancholy expression in his countenance. He was courteous and civil, and
his way of living extremely temperate. He is said to have been a very absent man, of which
instances have been recorded; once meeting with a book in an apothecary's, which he had been
long looking for, he opened it, and read from morning till night without being roused from
his pursuit by the distraction and tumult occasioned by a great wedding passing through the
street. For some time he roved about Italy in an indigent and distressed condition, till he
was hospitably received by the Lord of Ravenna, his patron and friend.

Paul Scarron, whose life abounds with curious features, married Mademoiselle d'Aubignè, afterwards
the celebrated Madame de Maintenon, who was at that time only sixteen years of age. On his
marriage, the notary asked him what dowry he would settle upon his wife? he replied, "Immortality:
the names of the wives of kings die with them, but the name of Scarron's wife shall live for
ever." He was accustomed to talk to his superiors with great freedom, and in a very jocular
style. In a dedication to the king, he thus addressed his majesty: "I shall endeavour to persuade
your majesty, that you would do yourself no injury, were you to do me a small favour; for in
that case I should become gay. If I should become more gay, I should write sprightly comedies;
and if I should write sprightly comedies, your majesty would be amused, and thus your money
would not be lost. All this appears so evident that I should certainly be convinced of it,
if I were as great a king as I am now a poor unfortunate man." Scarron took pleasure in reading
his works to his friends, as he composed them; he used to call it trying them. Segrais and
another person coming to him one day, "Take a chair," he said, "and sit down, that I may examine
my Comic Romance." When he saw them laugh very heartily, he said he was satisfied, "my book
will be well received since it makes persons of such delicate taste laugh." He was not disappointed
in his expectations, for the Romance had a great run. In the year 1638, he was attending the
Carnival at Mons, of which he was a canon. Having put on the dress of a savage, he was followed
by a troop of boys into a morass, where he was kept so long, that the cold penetrated his debilitated
limbs, which became contracted in such a manner, that he used to compare his body to the shape
of a Z. He died in 1660, at the age of fifty; he said to his friends who surrounded his dying
bed, "I shall never make you weep so much as I have made you laugh." In his epitaph, made by
himself, he desires, in a mixture of the comic and the pathetic, that the passengers would
not awaken, by their noise, poor Scarron from the first good sleep he had ever enjoyed.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

LEGENDS OF THE LAKES; OR, SAYINGS AND DOINGS AT KILLARNEY.

By T. Crofton Croker, Esq.

Two volumes of "tickling" legendary tales are almost too much for our laughter-holding sides,
but more especially at this merry season--fraught with humour--and when reminiscences of the
past make up for lack of realities of the present. To "notice" such a work is ten times more
(we had almost said) trouble than to despatch half a dozen dull books, or a dozen harmless,
well-meaning satires on human nature. But we will do our best to detach some of the good things
from Mr. Croker's volumes, although the humour of the sketches which adorn them, is of too
subtle a quality for our pen or sheet to hold.

Mr. Croker takes for granted that when people go to see the Lakes of Killarney, they do not
intend making a very serious business of the excursion; but rather desire, while their eyes
are pleased with romantic scenery, that their ears should be tickled by legendary tales; and
accordingly he thinks it extraordinary that no guide-book should exist for the local traditions
of Killarney. This accounts for our finding Mr. Croker on the box of the Killarney mail coach,
beside Mat. Crowley, the driver, at page 2, of his first volume. Here is no preamble about
"friends pressing the author to print--not intended for the public eye--a mere note-book,"
&c.--but he begins his journey with the first crack of the whip, and a "righte merrie" journey
it is.

Our facetious friend soon reaches Killarney, and is introduced to the lord high-admiral of
the lakes, and then, as the newspapers say of a pantomime, the "fun begins." Our first extract is

O'SULLIVAN'S PUNCH BOWL.

"What are we to land here for?" said I to the coxswain.

"Only just to show your honour O'Sullivan's cascade," was the reply. "Here, Doolan, show the
gentleman the way." Ascending a rugged path through the wood, we soon reached the foot of the fall.

"Isn't that as fine a sight as you'd meet with in a month of Sundays," said Doolan. "Only see
how the white water comes biling like a pot of praties over the big, black rocks, down it comes,
one tumble over the other, the green trees all the while stretching out their arms as if they
wanted to stop it. And then it makes such a dickins of a nise as it pounces into that black
pool at the bottom, that it's enough to bother the brains of a man entirely. Why, then, isn't
it a wonder how all that water sprung up out of the mountain? for sure, isn't there a bit of
a lake above there, in the hollow of the hill that the waterfall comes out of,--they calls
it O'Sullivan's Punch Bowl?"

"And, pray, who was this O'Sullivan that had such a capacious Punch Bowl?"

"Och, then, 'tis he's the fine, portly looking jantleman, and has a vice (voice) as big as
twenty; 'twould do your heart good to hear the cry of him on a stag hunt day, making the mountain
ring again."

"Well, Doolan, you haven't told me all this time who O'Sullivan is."

"Why, then, that's the quare question for your honour to be after axing me. Sure all the country
knows O'Sullivan of Toomies, for didn't him, and his father before him, live at the butt end
of the mountain, near the neck of the Lawn; and wasn't they great chieftains in the ould times;
and hadn't they a great sketch of country to themselves: they haven't so much now, for their
hearts were too big for their manes (means;) and that's the rason O'Sullivan was obligated
to sell this part of the mountain to Mr. Herbert of Mucruss?"

"A sad story this, Doolan; but it seems to me these O'Sullivans must have been very fond of
a bowl of punch, or why is the lake you mentioned called O'Sullivan's Punch Bowl?"

