  And he was kind, and loved to sit
    In the low hut or garnish'd cottage,
  And praise the farmer's homely wit,
    And share the widow's homelier pottage:
  At his approach complaint grew mild;
    And when his hand unbarr'd the shutter,
  The clammy lips of fever smiled
    The welcome, which they could not utter.

  He always had a tale for me
    Of Julius Caesar, or of Venus;
  From him I learn'd the rule of three,
    Cat's cradle, leap-frog, and Quae genus:
  I used to singe his powder'd wig,
    To steal the staff he put such trust in;
  And make the puppy dance a jig,
    When he began to quote Augustin.

  Alack the change! in vain I look
    For haunts in which my boyhood trifled;
  The level lawn, the trickling brook,
    The trees I climb'd, the beds I rifled:
  The church is larger than before;
    You reach it by a carriage entry;
  It holds three hundred people more,
    And pews are fitted up for gentry.

  Sit in the Vicar's seat: you'll hear
    The doctrine of a gentle Johnian,
  Whose hand is white, whose tone is clear,
    Whose phrase is very Ciceronian.
  Where is the old man laid?--look down.
  And construe on the slab before you,
  Hic jacet
    GULIELMUS BROWN,
  Vir nulla non donandus lauru.

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

TAILORS.

There is nothing upon earth that is of so much utility to men in general as fine clothes. A
splendid equipage, a magnificent house, may draw the gaze of idle passers, and excite an occasional
inquiry. But who, that has entered taverns and coffeehouses, has not perceived that the ratio
of civility and attention from the waiter is regulated by the dress of his various customers?
Any stranger, elegantly and fashionably attired, will find little difficulty in obtaining deference,
politeness, and even credit, in every shop he enters; whereas the stranger, in more homely,
or less modish garb, is really nobody. In truth, the gentleman is distinguished in the crowd
only by the cut of his trousers, and he carries his patent of nobility in his coat-lap. And
to whom does he owe this index of his identity, but to his despised and much calumniated tailor?

There is not a metamorphosis in all the pages of Ovid so wonderful as that which the great
magician of the shears and thimble is capable of effecting. If there be the most unpleasant
disproportions in the turn of your limbs--any awkwardness or deformity in your figure, the
enchantment of this mighty wizard instantly communicates symmetry and elegance. The incongruous
and unseemly furrows of your shape become smooth and harmonized; and the total want of all
shape is immediately supplied by the beautiful undulations of the coat, and the graceful fall
of the pantaloons. And all this is by the potency of your tailor. His necromantic skill, unlike
that of too many practisers of supernatural arts, is exercised only for the benefit of the
world: and whilst Circe transformed the companions of Ulysses into brute beasts, the benevolent
enchanter of our day transforms brute beasts into handsome and attractive men. Nay, had Olympus
been furnished with a tailor, Brotheus would have had no necessity to burn himself to death
for the purpose of escaping ridicule from the gods on account of his deformity.

But he who is most indebted to this manufacturer of elegant forms, is the lover; and the base
ingratitude of this sort of person is dreadfully enormous. After he has riveted the gaze of
his mistress upon his charming figure, drawn forth sighs of admiration for his remarkable elegance,
excited the most tender perturbations by the grace of his movements, and finally acquired a
complete surrender of her heart by the striking interest of his attitude when kneeling at her
feet, he ignorantly and presumptuously ascribes this to his own intrinsic qualities, without
ever remembering that the abilities of his tailor are the sole source of all his success. The
very being, who has endowed such a man with all his attractions, rests contented with the payment
of his bills, (if he be fortunate enough to obtain that;) whilst the other, by the power of
fascinations so procured, obtains a lovely wife and twenty thousand pounds. Sic vos non vobis, &c.

Such is the skill of that wonderful being, the tailor, that his transformations are not more
extraordinary than sudden. The time which is occupied in thus new-moulding the human frame
is really trivial compared with the stupendous change which is literally wrought. It is true,
the soul may remain the same, but a new body is actually given to it by the interposition of
vestiary talent: and this is what we have always believed to be the genuine meaning of the
metempsychosis of Pythagoras.

It is not, therefore, without the most cogent reasons that we assert our opinion, that the
distich of Pope, "Worth makes the man," or the title appended by Colley Cibber to one of his
dramas, "Love makes the man," ought henceforth to yield, in point of truth, to the irrefragable
principle which we here solemnly advance, "that it is the tailor makes the man."--Blackwood's
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ACTOR.

Perhaps Fortune does not buffet any set of beings with more industry, and withal less effect,
than Actors. There may be something in the habitual mutability of their feelings that evades
the blow; they live, in a great measure, out of this dull sphere, "which men call earth;" they
assume the dress, the tone, the gait of emperors, kings, nobles; the world slides, and they
mark it not. The Actor leaves his home, and forgets every domestic exigence in the temporary
government of a state, or overthrow of a tyrant; he is completely out of the real world until
the dropping of the curtain. The time likewise not spent on the stage is passed in preparation
for the night; and thus the shafts of fate glance from our Actor like swan-shot from an elephant,
If struck at all, the barb must pierce the bones, and quiver in the marrow.

Our Actor--mind, we are speaking of players in the mass--is the most joyous, careless, superficial
flutterer in existence. He knows every thing, yet has learned nothing; he has played at ducks
and drakes over every rivulet of information, yet never plunged inch-deep into any thing beyond
a play-book, or Joe Miller's jests. If he venture a scrap of Latin, be sure there is among
his luggage a dictionary of quotations; if he speak of history,--why he has played in Richard
and Coriolanus. The stage is with him the fixed orb around which the whole world revolves;
there is nothing worthy of a moment's devotion one hundred yards from the green-room. It is
amusing to perceive how blind, how dead, is our real Actor to the stir and turmoil of politics;
he will turn from a Salamanca to admire a Sir John Brute's wig; Waterloo sinks into insignificance
before the amber-headed cane of a Sir Peter Teazle. What is St. Stephen's to him--what the
memory of Burke and Chatham? To be sure, Sheridan is well remembered; but then Sheridan wrote
the Critic.

A mackerel lives longer out of water than does an Actor out of his element: he cannot, for
a minute, "look abroad into universality." Keep him to the last edition of a new or old play,
the burning of the two theatres, or an anecdote of John Kemble, and our Actor sparkles amazingly.
Put to him an unprofessional question, and you strike him dumb; an abstract truth locks his
jaws. On the contrary, listen to the stock-joke; lend an attentive ear to the witticism clubbed
by the whole green-room--for there is rarely more than one at a time in circulation--and no
man talks faster--none with a deeper delight to himself--none more profound, more knowing.
The conversation of our Actor is a fine "piece of mosaic." Here Shakspeare is laid under contribution--here
Farquhar--here Otway. We have an undigested mass of quotations, dropping without order from
him. In words he is absolutely impoverishable. What a lion he stalks in a country town! How
he stilts himself upon his jokes over the sleek, unsuspecting heads of his astonished hearers!
He tells a story; and, for the remainder of the night, sits embosomed in the ineffable lustre
of his humour.--Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BROKEN HEART.

A mutual affection had existed from their very childhood between Henri Merville and Louise
Courtin; their respective parents were near neighbours, and on very friendly terms with one
another; they, therefore, watched the infantile attachment of their children with great pleasure,
and with still more self-congratulation did they perceive that, growing with their growth,
and strengthening with their strength, it had ripened into an ardent and deep-rooted passion.
When Henri, however, had attained his twentieth year, Louise being also only seventeen, it
became necessary that he should leave the humble village of Verny, and perfect himself in his
trade as a cabinet-maker, by visiting and working in some large and opulent towns. The lovers,
amid their increasing happiness, had never thought of this long separation; so that when Henri
was told by his father that he must leave home, and be away three years, and Louise informed
by her mother of the same circumstance, the intelligence came upon them like an earthquake.
Woman's feelings are more easily excited, and Louise felt as if Verny would be a desert without
her dear Henri; he too was sad enough, although the preparations for his journey occupied the
greatest portion of his time, and prevented his so continually thinking of the separation as
she did. Grief and regret were useless; the parting hour arrived, and the now miserable pair
were left to themselves. They mutually made vows of eternal constancy and fidelity; as is the
custom in the provinces, they exchanged rings, and became rather more resigned to their unavoidable
separation.

Henri at last departed, and was ten miles from Verny before he could comprehend how he had
summoned up resolution enough to leave it. Louise, shut up in her little room, was weeping
bitterly, and felt no inclination to go out, since she could no longer meet Henri; but, in
a short time, both of them, without feeling less regret, bethought themselves of making the
wearisome interval useful to their future prospects.

During the first eighteen months, he travelled about from town to town; but at last, in Lyons,
made an engagement with a person who had a very extensive business, of the name of Gerval,
for the remaining period. His master preferred cards and the bottle to work, and finding Henri
honest and attentive, was anxious to retain him in his situation. He had a daughter, named
Annette, a quick, lively, and fascinating girl, who seemed rather disposed to coquet with Henri,
and was somewhat frequently in the workshop with him. Gerval observed, and by no means discouraged,
this, thinking that, even after all, his assistant would become neither a bad partner for Annette
nor himself; and that their intercourse, at all events, would keep away Louis, a former workman,
who had affected a great regard for his daughter, but possessed very little inclination to
use the saw or the plane. All this attention was very delightful to Henri, particularly as
it proceeded from so interesting a creature as his present companion. Are, then, Verny and
the sorrowful Louise quite forgotten? It must be confessed, that they almost escaped his memory,
when thus employed with Annette; but, to do him justice, in the solitude of his chamber he
experienced feelings almost akin to remorse; often in his dreams did he behold Louise, ever
tender, ever affectionate, as in their infancy; this vision was recalled when he awoke, and
he arose, vowing that she should never have a rival in his heart: but Henri was young, Louise
two hundred miles off, and Annette only two steps.

Gerval, to keep away all aspirants, gave it out that they were betrothed, and especially informed
Louis, the dismissed swain, of this agreement, who, in consequence thereof, immediately left
Lyons. Henri's time, meanwhile, was passing away; he had received some very tender letters
from Louise, and had written to her, but less frequently than he would have done if Annette
had not occupied his leisure hours. Having, however, received no intelligence from Verny for
more than three months, he began to be disquieted, and determined to leave Gerval, notwithstanding
all Annette's attractions. To be sure, he had found her very pretty and agreeable--he had romped
and flirted with her--but had never, for a moment, thought of marrying her, and had, strictly
speaking, been faithful to Louise. Judge then of his surprise, when, one night, Gerval returned
home half-drunk, and asked them, if they were not beginning to think of the wedding. Annette
threw herself into her father's arms; Henri, pale as death, hid his face with his hands, and
knew not how to articulate a refusal; and Gerval, at the sight of this confusion, burst out
into an uncontrollable fit of laughter; "You put me in mind," said he, at last, "of one of
those ninnies of lovers on the stage, who throw themselves on their knees before their mistresses,
as if they were idols. Come, my lad, embrace your betrothed--exchange rings--and long live
joy, for it costs nothing." The words "exchange rings" restored Henri to his senses, for he
thought he beheld his beloved Louise, amid her tears, softly exclaim, "Dear Henri, what will
become of me without you?" And this ring, too, which was asked from him, was the self-same
one that he had received from her!--He immediately addressed Gerval in a firm, yet touching,
tone of voice, and, having thanked him, told him that he should never forget his friendship
and his kind intentions, that he should always love Annette as a sister, but that he could
not marry her, because he was already engaged in his own native place. He requested him to
ask his daughter if he had ever said a single word about marriage to her; he might, indeed,
have added, that he had often spoken to her of Louise, and showed her the ring, about which
she had teased him; but he did not wish to draw the old man's reproaches on her. These reproaches
all fell on him; he bore them, however, with so much gentleness, that Gerval, who was "a good
sort of fellow," was, in the end, affected by it. "Go, then, and marry your betrothed," said
he, in a half-friendly, half-vexed, tone; "since it is not Annette, the sooner you set off
the better. I must say, I shall regret you; and you may, perhaps, sometime or other, regret
old Gerval and his daughter."

Henri took his departure on the next day, quite overpowered at the idea of having bidden Annette
adieu for ever. During the four or five first days, the young traveller was pensive enough:
Annette's smiling countenance occupied his thoughts, but he could no longer dissemble from
himself, that he had acted unkindly towards Louise--"Annette will console herself; but will
the gentle Louise forgive me? Oh, yes!--she is so good; I will tell her every thing, and she
will admire my fidelity, when she knows how fascinating Annette was, and in what a situation
I was placed." Full of this fond hope, he pursued his journey more gaily, and the nearer he
approached his own dear province, the more was Annette effaced from his thoughts; for every
thing around him inspired him with the sweetest reminiscences. It was just the beginning of
May: each lover, on the first Sunday of that month, planted a young fir, or birch-tree, adorned
with flowers, before his fair one's door. Henri thought how many he had fixed before the window
of his dear Louise, and how happy he had been on hearing it said, the next day, that the loveliest
girl in the village had had the finest May-offering. Oh! could he but arrive soon enough to
announce his return in that way! He tried to do so, but his efforts were fruitless: the first
Sunday arrived, and he was still two days' journey from Verny. In the evening he found himself
in a large town, called Nuneville, fatigued with his now useless endeavours, and resolved to
proceed no further that day. Every thing seemed prepared for the festival--the street was neat
and clean--the fountains adorned with branches, and decorated with large nosegays, tied together
with beautiful ribands--fir-trees marked the dwellings of the young females--all had flowers
around them, but he remarked, that one had only white ones on it, fastened with a crape riband--the
street was deserted. Before he could reach the inn, which was at the other end of the town,
he had to pass by the church and the burial-ground; the former seemed full of women, and in
the latter there was an open grave. This melancholy sight rendered it evident, that some one
was dead; that her loss had suspended the public joy; and the bouquet, encircled with crape,
had been planted before the "house of mourning." He entered the church-yard--groups of females
were walking there. They were conversing in a low tone, and Henri discovered that the deceased
was young and beautiful; and that she had been the victim of a misplaced affection; he could
not restrain his tears, for he thought how near, perhaps, he had been occasioning the death
of his Louise. "But," said one of the females, "why did she not imitate her fickle lover? Why
did she not receive the addresses of your brother Guillaume?"--"She always told me," replied
Isabelle, (the person addressed, and who was in deeper mourning than the others,) "that she
could only love once, and that she had no longer a heart to give."--"Well, then," said another,
"was she sure that her lover was faithless?"--"Quite sure. She had long feared that he was;
she saw it in his letters, for when a woman like Marie loves, the heart divines every thing;
still, however, she flattered herself with the fond hope that he would return, and that her
forgiveness of his neglect would revive in him all his former affection. Three months ago this
hope was destroyed, she heard that he was--married. Since that time she has only languished;
she wished to live for the sake of her parents, but her grief has proved the most powerful.
He quitted me in the month of May," said she to me; "in the month of May I shall quit life."
"That time is come, and Marie is no more."--"Tell us her whole history," exclaimed two or three
of the listeners, at once. Isabelle consented; they were crowding round her, and Henri was
approaching nearer, and redoubling his attention, when the funeral bell tolled drearily and
solemnly. He started, and Isabelle said, with a sigh, "I must tell you my dear friend's story
another time; we must now accompany her remains to their last sad home, and place these flowers
upon her coffin."

They walked on mournfully, two and two, and Henri followed them with an interest that he could
not account for, or define. The coffin advanced, preceded by the priests, bearing torches that
were obscured by the silvery light of the moon; it was carried by six men, and among them it
was easy to recognise Guillaume, by his profound sorrow; for, to Henri's great surprise, he
alone wept. The more aged men who followed the corpse, the one even next it, and who, of course,
was the father, or nearest relative of the deceased, had, like the rest, merely a composed
and serious countenance, undisfigured by any great affliction. The body was lowered into the
grave; the officiating minister made a brief, and somewhat cold, discourse on the frailty of
life; the young females afterwards came forward, and each threw her wreath of flowers on the
coffin; and then chanted some rhymes.

The grave was then about to be filled up; the noise of the earth, in falling, resounded on
the coffin, and Henri shuddered. The crowd gradually dispersed; Guillaume and Isabelle alone
remained beside the tomb; Henri approached it, and Isabelle observing him, with a forced smile,
said, "Did you know her? I have seen you follow the funeral train with apparent interest, and
now I behold you in tears; are you a relation, friend, or only even a native of the same place?"
Henri listened to these questions with great surprise; "I scarcely understand you," he at length
replied; "I am merely a traveller; but the deceased was, doubtless, your friend?"--"Yes, my
best, my dearest friend; yet our friendship was doomed to be of very short continuance. I was
not at all acquainted with her until, about three months ago, she came to reside with my father,
who is a physician, and to whose care her relations, when aware of her forlorn state, confided
her." "Her relations," remarked Henri, "did not seem to be much affected; they appeared, indeed,
quite resigned to their loss." "Her relations!" replied Isabelle, "she had none here; she was
a stranger, and my father attended as chief mourner; he lamented her loss, but Marie was not
his daughter, although I myself loved her as a sister." "Marie!" she was called Marie! but
what was her family-name? Often shall I think of her unhappy destiny. "Marie was only a name
that she adopted, and we called her, because she could never bear to hear her own." "Isabelle,"
said she to me, almost at our first meeting, "never name me as he who has destroyed me named
me; never, I entreat you, call me dear Louise." "Louise!" exclaimed Henri, growing pale as
death; "Louise!" "Yes, Louise Courtin, of Verny!" No sooner had Isabelle uttered these words,
than she beheld the young traveller fall senseless beside the grave, feebly repeating the name
of Louise. Isabelle, in alarm, called her brother to her assistance; they raised up the stranger,
who opened his eyes for a moment, and again muttered the same words. "Gracious Providence!"
exclaimed the affrighted girl, "it is--it must be--Henri!" The youth made an effort, and cried
out, in a frantic manner: "Yes! Henri, the murderer of his beloved; the assassin of Louise!"
He then again fell down exhausted, and to all appearance dead. Guillaume had him conveyed to
his father's, where every assistance that skill could devise, was tendered him; but he only
recovered his recollection sufficiently to learn from Isabelle, that a person named Louis had
brought positive intelligence to Verny, that Henri had espoused his master's daughter at Lyons;
that her father himself had made him acquainted with the circumstance, and that he had seen
the newly married couple in all the raptures of connubial happiness. It was impossible to discredit
this news, which was a death-blow to the sensitive Louise.

After having listened to this melancholy narrative, Henri, when he had regained sufficient
composure, entrusted Isabelle with his vindication, for Louise's parents and his own, and expired
without a groan the next day. The same moon which had illuminated his betrothed's funeral shone
upon his, and they repose beside each other in the picturesque burial-ground of Nuneville,
not quite forgotten or unlamented by its inhabitants.--Abridged from a collection of interesting
Tales and Sketches, entitled "A Cantab's Leisure."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEARS ON THE ICE.

From the Tales of a Voyager.

With two boats, we assailed six of these animals, who had collected round the "crang," or carcass
of a whale. After lying at the bottom of the sea for some time, the body of the whale rises
to the surface, probably buoyed up by gas generated by putrefaction in its entrails. This circumstance
is by no means uncommon, especially late in the summer, when time has been allowed for fermentation;
but it seems to point out that the depths of the Arctic Ocean contain few or no animals to
prey upon the numerous carcasses which are let sink after flinching, since, otherwise, the
mass would become pierced and unable to float, if not wholly devoured. We slew five of the
six bears, and brought a half-grown cub on board alive. This poor harmless beast was wounded
in two or three places superficially with a boat hook, but its disposition seemed scarcely
to have warranted these trifling blows. I was moved to compassion as it sat upon the jaw-bone
of a whale, which projected beneath the tafrail, at one moment devouring pieces of its mother
and sister with avidity, and at the next stretching its throat and blaring out mournfully,
when a fragment of ice met its view, passing astern as we sailed on our course. It was about
the size of a sheep, and after their tea the sailors got it down below, and turned it loose
betwixt decks, from whence it sent up all hands with precipitation, some of them quitting their
berths half-naked, as if a fall had been called. After a sufficient allowance of frolic had
gratified the crew, a daring Shetlander collared the bear as if it had been a dog, and fastened
a fresh rope round its neck, and having forced it to leap overboard, the rope's end was thrown
to the boat's crew of a visiter, at that moment about to leave us, and it was towed or rather
led away. The following day I saw its skin stretched on the shrouds of the vessel, to whose
captain it had been presented. The other bear chace was after a monstrous male, who resolutely
faced us, and would have boarded our boat had it not shot past him. He was flanked by the ship,
which had run down upon him as he lay exactly in her course, and by the boat, which had got
between him and the ice, and seeing no other resource, he turned upon the boat. When discovered,
he was so near the floe that, wishing to intercept him, we leaped into the boat, and lowered
away without waiting for a gun; we were, therefore, obliged to meet him at close quarters.
But while we stood prepared, Shipley with a lance, and myself with the boat's hatchet, to receive
his onset, the skiff was allowed to keep on her headway, and we passed beyond our foe, who
took advantage of the error, and dashed forward to the ice, which he gained just as our boat
in pursuit of him ran her nose up against the floe, and almost tripped his heels.

