Towards the end of autumn, the weather frequently becomes so broken and stormy in these parts,
as to render the sustenance derived from fishing extremely precarious. Against this, however,
the Warlock Fisher was provided; for, caring little for weather, and apparently less for life,
he went out in all seasons, and was known to be absent for days, during the most violent storms,
when every hope of seeing him again was lost. Still nothing harmed him: he came drifting back
again, the same wayward, unfearing, unhallowed animal. To account for this, it was understood
that he was in connexion with smugglers; that his days of absence were spent in their service--in
reconnoitring for their safety, and assisting their predations. Whatever of truth there might
be in this, it was well known that the Warlock Fisher never wanted ardent spirits; and so free
was he in their use and of tobacco, that he has been heard, in a long and dreary winter's evening,
carolling songs in a strange tongue, with all the fervour of an inspired bacchanal. It has
been said, too, at such times he held strange talk with some who never answered, deprecated
sights which no one else could see, and exhibited the fury of an outrageous maniac.

It was towards the close of an autumn day, that a tall young man was seen surveying the barren
rocks, and apparently deserted shores, near the dwelling of the fisher. He wore the inquiring
aspect of a stranger, and yet his step indicated a previous acquaintance with the scene. The
sun was flinging his boldest radiance on the rolling ocean, as the youth ascended the rugged
path which led to the Warlock Fisher's hut. He surveyed the door for a moment, as if to be
certain of the spot; and then, with one stroke of his foot, dashed the door inwards. It was
damp and tenantless. The stranger set down his bundle, kindled a fire, and remained in quiet
possession. In a few hours the fisher returned. He started involuntarily at the sight of the
intruder, who sprang to his feet, ready for any alternative.

"What seek you in my hut?" said the Fisher.

"A shelter for the night--the hawks are out."

"Who directed you to me?"

"Old acquaintance!"

"Never saw you with my eyes--shiver me! But never mind, you look like the breed--a ready hand
and a light heel, ha! All's right--tap your keg!"

No sooner said than done. The keg was broached, and a good brown basin of double hollands was
brimming at the lips of the Warlock Fisher. The stranger did himself a similar service, and
they grew friendly. The fisher could not avoid placing his hand before his eyes once or twice,
as if wishful to avoid the keen gaze of the stranger, who still plied the fire with fuel and
his host with hollands. Reserve was at length annihilated, and the fisher jocularly said--

"Well, and so we're old acquaintance, ha?"

"Ay," said the young man, with another searching glance. "I was in doubt at first, but now
I'm certain."

"And what's to be done?" said the Fisher.

"An hour after midnight you must put me on board -----'s boat, she'll be abroad. They'll run
a light to the masthead, for which you'll steer. You're a good hand at the helm in a dark night
and a rough sea," was the reply.

"How, if I will not?"

"Then--your life or mine!"

They sprang to their feet simultaneously, and an immediate encounter seemed inevitable.

"Psha!" said the Fisher, sinking on his seat, "what madness this is! I was a thought warm with
the liquor, and the recollections of past times were rising on my memory. Think nothing of
it. I heard those words once before," and he ground his teeth in rage--"Yes, once--but in a
shriller voice than your's! Sometimes, too, the bastard rises to my view; and then I smite
him so--bah! give us another basin-full!" He stuck short at vacancy, snatched the beverage
from the stranger, and drank it off. "An hour after midnight, said ye?"

"Ay--you'll see no bastards then!"

"Worse--may be--worse!" muttered the Fisher, sinking into abstraction, and glaring wildly on
the flickering embers before him.

"Why, how's this?" said the stranger. "Are your senses playing bo-peep with the ghost of some
pigeon-livered coast captain, eh? Come, take another pull at the keg, to clear your head-lights,
and tell us a bit of your ditty."

The Fisher took another draught, and proceeded--

"About five-and-twenty years ago, a stranger came to this hut--may the curse of God annihilate
him!--"

"Amen to that," said the young man.

"He brought with him a boy and a girl, a purse of gold, and ---- the arch fiend's tongue, to
tempt me! Well, it was to take these children out to sea--upset the boat--and lose them!"--

"And you did so!" interrupted the stranger.

"I tried--but listen. On a fine evening, I took them out: the sun sunk rapidly, and I knew
by the freshening of the breeze, there would be a storm. I was not mistaken. It came on even
faster than I wished. The children were alarmed--the boy, in particular, grew suspicious; he
insisted that I had an object in going out so far at sun-set. This irritated me,--and I rose
to smite him, when the fair girl interposed her fragile form between us. She screamed for mercy,
and clung to my arm with the desperation of despair. I could not shake her off! The boy had
the spirit of a man; he seized a piece of spar, and struck me on the temples. 'How, you villain!'
said he, 'your life or mine!' At that moment the boat upset, and we were all adrift. The boy
I never saw again--a tremendous sea broke between us--but the wretched girl clung to me like
hate! Damnation!--her dying scream is ringing in my ears like madness! I struck her on the
forehead, and she sank--all but her hand, one little, white hand would not sink! I threw myself
on my back, and struck at it with both my feet--and then I thought it sunk for ever. I made
the shore with difficulty, for I was stunned and senseless, and the ocean heaved as if it would
have washed away the mortal world--and the lightnings blazed as if all hell had come to light
the scene of warfare! I have never since been on the sea at midnight, but that hand has followed
or preceded me; I have never ----." Here he sank down from his seat, and rolled himself in
agony upon the floor.

"Poor wretch!" muttered the stranger, "what hinders now my long-sought vengeance? Even with
my foot--but thou shalt share my murdered sister's grave!"

"A shot is fired--look out for the light!" said the young man.

The Fisher went to the door; but suddenly started back, clasping his hands before his face.

"Fire and brimstone! there it is again!" he cried.

"What?" said his companion, looking cooly round him.

"That infernal hand! Lightnings blast it!--but that's impossible," he added, in a fearful under-tone,
which sounded as if some of the eternal rocks around him were adding a response to his imprecations--"that's
impossible! It is a part of them--it has been so for years--darkness could not shroud it--distance
could not separate it from my burning eye-balls!--awake, it was there--asleep, it flickered
and blazed before me!--it has been my rock a-head through life, and it will herald me to hell!"
So saying, he pressed his sinewy hands upon his face, and buried his head between his knees,
till the rock beneath him seemed to shake with his uncontrollable agony.

"Again it beckons me!" said he, starting up--"ten thousand fires are blazing in my heart--in
my brain!--where, where can I be worse? Fiend, I defy thee!"

"I see nothing," said his companion, with unalterable composure.

"You see nothing!" thundered the Fisher, with mingling sarcasm and fury--"look there." He snatched
his hand, and pointing steadily into the gloom, again murmured, "Look there! look there!"

At that moment the lightning blazed around with appalling brilliancy; and the stranger saw
a small white hand, pointing tremulously upwards.

"I saw it there," said he, "but it is not hers! Infatuated, abandoned villain." he continued,
with irrepressible energy, "it is not my sister's hand--no! it is the incarnate fiend's who
tempted you, and who now waves you to perdition--begone together!"

He aimed a dreadful blow at the astonished Fisher, who instinctively avoided the stroke. Mutually
wound up to the highest pitch of anger, they grappled each the other's throat, set their feet,
and strained for the throw, which was inevitably to bury both in the wild waves beneath. A
faint shriek was heard, and a gibbering, as of many voices, came fluttering around them.

"Chatter on!" said the Fisher, "he joins you now!"

"Together--it will be together!" said the stranger, as with a last desperate effort he bent
his adversary backward from the betling cliff. The voice of the Fisher sounded hoarsely in
execration, as they dashed into the sea together; but what he said was drowned in the hoarser
murmur of the uplashing surge! The body of the stranger was found on the next morning, flung
far up on the rocky shore--but that of the murderer was gone for ever!

The superstitious peasantry of the neighbourhood still consider the spot as haunted; and at
midnight, when the waves dash fitfully against the perilous crags, and the bleak winds sweep
with long and angry moan around them, they still hear the gibbering voices of the fiends, and
the mortal execrations of the Warlock Fisher!--but, after that fearful night, no man ever saw
THE PHANTOM HAND!--Literary Magnet.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCANA OF SCIENCE.

Elephants.

All the elephants which were exported from Point de Galle were caught in ancient, as well as
in modern times, in that tract of country which extends from Matura to Tangcolle, in the south
of Ceylon, and which, from its being famous for its elephants in his days, is described by
Ptolemy in the map he made of Ceylon sixteen hundred years ago as the elephantum pascua. The
trade in elephants from Ceylon, which used to be lucrative, is now completely annihilated,
in consequence of all the petty Rajahs, Foligars, and other chiefs in the southern peninsula
of India, who used formerly to purchase Ceylon elephants as a part of their state, having lost
their sovereignties, and being therefore no longer required to keep up any state of this description.
A gentleman who has a plantation at Candy, it is understood, recently introduced the use of
elephants, in ploughing, with great advantage.--Trans. Asiatic Society.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Fennecous Cerdo.

This beautiful and extraordinary animal, or at least one of its genus, was first made known
to European naturalists by Bruce, who received it from his dragoman, whilst consul general
at Algiers. It is frequently met with in the date territories of Africa, where the animals
are hunted for their skins, which are afterwards sold at Mecca, and then exported to India.
Bruce kept his animal alive for several months, and took a drawing of it in water colours,
of the natural size, a copy of which, on transparent paper, was clandestinely made by his servant.
Mr. Brander, into whose hands the Fennecus fell after Bruce left Algiers, gave an account of
it in "Some Swedish Transactions," but refused to let the figure be published, the drawing
having been unfairly obtained.[3] Bruce asserts that this animal is described in many Arabian
books, under the name of El Fennec, which appellation he conceives to be derived from the Greek
word for a palm or date-tree.

The favourite food of Bruce's Fennec was dates or any sweet fruit; but it was also very fond
of eggs; when hungry it would eat bread, especially with honey or sugar. His attention was
immediately attracted if a bird flew near him, and he would watch it with an eagerness that
could hardly be diverted from its object; but he was dreadfully afraid of a cat. Bruce never
heard that he had any voice. During the day he was inclined to sleep, but became restless and
exceedingly unquiet as night came on. The above Fennec was about ten inches long, the tail
five inches and a quarter, near an inch of it on the tip, black. The colour of the body was
dirty white, bordering on cream colour; the hair on the belly rather whiter, softer and longer
than on the rest of the body. His look was sly and wily; he built his nest on trees, and did
not burrow in the earth.

Naturalists, especially those of France, were long induced to suspect the truth of Bruce's
description of this animal; but a specimen from the interior of Nubia, and preserved in the
museum at Frankfort, has recently been engraved; and thus the matter nearly settled by the
animal belonging to the genus Canis, and the sub genus Vulpes; the number of teeth and form,
being precisely the same as the fox, which it also resembles in its feet, number of toes, and
form of tail.

For the above engraving we are indebted to the Appendix to the important and interesting Travels
of Messrs. Denham and Clapperton. It is therein described as generally of a white colour, inclining
to straw yellow; above, from the occiput to the insertion of the tail it is light rufous brown,
delicately pencilled with fine black lines, from thinly scattered hairs tipped with black;
the exterior of the thighs is lighter rufous brown; the chin, throat, belly, and interior of
the thighs and legs are white, or cream colour. The nose is pointed, and black at the extremity;
above, it is covered with very short, whitish hair inclining to rufous, with a small irregular
rufous spot on each side beneath the eyes; the whiskers are black, rather short and scanty;
the back of the head is pale rufous brown. The ears are very large, erect, and pointed, and
covered externally with short, pale, rufous brown hair; internally, they are thickly fringed
on the margin with long grayish white hairs, especially in front; the rest of the ears, internally,
is bare; externally, they are folded or plaited at the base. The tail is very full, cylindrical,
of a rufous brown colour, and pencilled with fine black lines like the back. The fur is very
soft and fine; that on the back, from the back to the insertion of the tail, as well as that
on the upper part of the shoulder before, and nearly the whole of the hinder thigh, is formed
of tri-coloured hairs, the base of which is of a dark lead colour, the middle white, and the
extremity light rufous brown.

[Footnote 3: We did not know that such unpleasantries as Chancery injunctions were part of
African law; perhaps sand may not be removed from the desert "without leave of the trustees,"
like scrapings from our roads.]

Fossil Turtle.

A beautiful and perfect fossil of the sea turtle has recently been discovered in an extensive
stratum of limestone, four fathoms water, called the Stone Ridge, about four miles off Harwich
harbour. It is incrusted in a mass of ferruginous limestone, and weighs 180 lbs.

Apples.

A gentleman of Staffordshire recommends the preservation of apples for winter store, packed
in banks or hods of earth like potatoes.-- Communication to the Horticultural Society.

Uses of Seals.

The benefits which the inhabitants of frigid regions derive from seals, are far too numerous
and diversified to be particularized, as they supply them with almost all the conveniences
of life. We, on the contrary, so persecute this animal, as to destroy hundreds of thousands
annually, for the sake of the pure and transparent oil with which the seal abounds; 2ndly,
for its tanned skin, which is appropriated to various purposes by different modes of preparation;
and thirdly, we pursue it for its close and dense attire. In the common seal, the hair of the
adult is of one uniform kind, so thickly arranged and imbued with oil, as to effectually resist
the action of water; while, on the contrary, in the antarctic seals the hair is of two kinds:
the longest, like that of the northern seals; the other, a delicate, soft fur, growing between
the roots of the former, close to the surface of the skin, and not seen externally; and this
beautiful fur constitutes an article of very increasing importance in commerce; but not only
does the clothing of the seal vary materially in colour, fineness, and commercial situation,
in the different species, but not less so in the age of the animal. The young of most kinds
are usually of a very light colour, or entirely white, and are altogether destitute of true
hair, having this substituted by a long and particularly soft fur.--Quarterly Journal.

Method of cutting Glass.

If a tube, or goblet, or other round glass body is to be cut, a line is to be marked with a
gun flint having a sharp angle, an agate, a diamond, or a file, exactly on the place where
it is to be cut. A long thread covered with sulphur is then to be passed two or three times
round the circular line, and to be inflamed and burnt; when the glass is well heated some drops
of cold water are to be thrown on it, when the piece will separate in an exact manner, as if
cut with scissors. It is by this means that glasses are cut circularly into thin bands, which
may either be separated from, or repose upon each other, at pleasure, in the manner of a spring---From
the French.

Preservation of Skins.

A tanner at Tyman, in Hungary, uses with great advantage the pyroligueous acid, in preserving
skins from putrefaction, and in recovering them when attacked. They are deprived of none of
their useful qualities if covered by means of a brush with the acid, which they absorb very
readily.--Quarterly Journal.

Organic Remains in Sussex.

A short time since, the entire skeleton of a stag, of very large size, was dug up by some labourers,
in excavating the bed of the river Ouse, near Lewes, in Sussex. The remains were found imbedded
in a layer of sand, beneath the alluvial blue clay, forming the surface of the valley. The
horns were in the highest state of preservation, and had seven points, like the American deer.
The greater part of the skeleton was destroyed by the carelessness of the workmen; but a portion,
including the horns, has been preserved in the collection of Mr. Mantell, near Lewes.

Stupendous Lizard.

Mr. Bullock, in his Travels, (just published) relates that he saw near New Orleans, "what are
believed to be the remains of a stupendous crocodile, and which are likely to prove so, intimating
the former existence of a lizard at least 150 feet long; for I measured the right side of the
under jaw, which I found to be 21 feet along the curve; and 4 feet 6 inches wide: the others
consisted of numerous vertebrae, ribs, femoral bones, and toes, all corresponding in size to
the jaw; there were also some teeth: these, however, were not of proportionate magnitude. These
remains were discovered, a short time since, in the swamp, near Fort Philip; and the other
parts of the mighty skeleton, are, it is said, in the same part of the swamp."

Digby's Philosophy.

Sir Kenelm Digby was a mere quack; but he was the son of an earl, and related to many noble
families. His book on the supposed sympathetic powder, which cured wounds at any distance from
the sufferer, is the standard of his abilities. This powder was Roman vitriol pounded. From
this wild work, we, however learn, that the English routine of agriculture in his time was--1st.
year, barley; 2nd. wheat; 3rd. beans; 4th. fallow.--Pinkerton.

Critics.

Thought, comprising its enumerated constituents and detailed process, is the most perfect and
exalted elaboration of the human mind, and when protracted is a painful exertion; indeed, the
greater portion of our species reluctantly submit to the toil and lassitude of reflection;
but from laziness, or incapacity, and perhaps in some instances from diffidence, they suffer
themselves to be directed by the opinions of others. Hence has arisen the swarm of critics
and reviewers, those clouds that obscure the fair light that would beam on the mind of man,
by his individual reflection, and through his existence degrade him, by a submission to assumed
authority;--a voluntary blindness, that excludes him from the observation of nature, and through
indolence and credulity render his noblest faculties feeble, assenting, and lethargic; and
delude him to barter the inheritance of his intellect for a mess of pottage.--Dr. Haslam.--Lancet.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUNCHAUSEN RIDE THROUGH EDINBURGH.

We were sitting rather negligently on an infernal animal, which, up to that day, had seemed
quiet as a lamb--kissing our hand to Mrs. Davison, then Miss Duncan, and in the blaze of her
fame, when a Highland regiment, no doubt the forty-second, that had been trudging down the
Mound, so silently that we never heard them, all at once, and without the slightest warning,
burst out, with all their bag-pipes, into one pibroch! The mare--to do her justice--had been
bred in England, and ridden, as a charger, by an adjutant to an English regiment. She was even
fond of music--and delighted to prance behind the band--unterrified by cymbals or great drum.
She never moved in a roar of artillery at reviews--and, had the Castle of Edinburgh--Lord bless
it--been self-involved, at that moment, in a storm of thunder and lightning, round its entire
circle of cannon, that mare would not so much as have pricked up her ears, whisked her tail,
or lifted a hoof. But the pibroch was more than horse-flesh and blood could endure--and off
we two went like a whirlwind. Where we went--that is to say, what were the names of the few
first streets along which we were borne, is a question which, as a man of veracity, we must
positively decline answering. For some short space of time, lines of houses reeled by without
a single face at the windows--and these, we have since conjectured, might be North and South
Hanover street, and Queen-street. By and by we surely were in something like a square--could
it be Charlotte-square?--and round and round it we flew--three, four, five, or six times, as
horsemen do at the Caledonian amphitheatre--for the animal had got blind with terror, and kept
viciously reasoning in a circle. What a show of faces at all the windows then! A shriek still
accompanied us as we clattered, and thundered, and lightened along; and, unless our ears lied,
there were occasional fits of stifled laughter, and once or twice a guffaw; for there was now
a ringing of lost stirrups--and much holding of the mane. One complete round was executed by
us, first on the shoulder beyond the pommel; secondly, on the neck; thirdly, between the ears;
fourthly, between the forelegs, in a place called the counter, with our arms round the jugular
veins of the flying phenomenon, and our toes in the air. That was, indeed, the crisis of our
fever, but we made a wonderful recovery back into the saddle--righting like a boat capsized
in a sudden squall at sea--and once more, with accelerated speed, away past the pillared front
of St. George's church!

The castle and all its rocks, in peristrephic panorama, then floated cloud-like by--and we
saw the whole mile-length of Prince's-street stretched before us, studded with innumerable
coaches, chaises, chariots, carts, wagons, drays, gigs, shandrydans, and wheel-barrows, through
among which we dashed, as if they had been as much gingerbread--while men on horseback were
seen flinging themselves off, and drivers dismounting in all directions, making their escape
up flights of steps and common stairs--mothers or nurses with broods of young children flying
hither and thither in distraction, or standing on the very crown of the causeway, wringing
their hands in despair. The wheel-barrows were easily disposed of--nor was there much greater
difficulty with the gigs and shandrydans. But the hackney-coaches stood confoundedly in the
way--and a wagon, drawn by four horses, and heaped up to the very sky with beer-barrels, like
the Tower of Babel or Babylon, did indeed give us pause--but ere we had leisure to ruminate
on the shortness of human life, we broke through between the leaders and the wheels with a
crash of leathern breeching, dismounted collars, riven harness, and tumbling of enormous horses
that was perilous to hear; when, as Sin and Satan would have it--would you believe it?--there,
twenty kilts deep at the least, was the same accursed Highland regiment, the forty-second,
with fixed bayonets, and all its pipers in the van, the pibroch yelling, squeaking, squealing,
grunting, growling, roaring, as if it had only that very instant broken out--so, suddenly to
the right--about went the bag-pipe-haunted mare, and away up the Mound, past the pictures of
Irish Giants--Female Dwarfs--Albinos--an Elephant endorsed with towers--Tigers and Lions of
all sorts--and a large wooden building, like a pyramid, in which there was the thundering of
cannon--for the battle, we rather think, of Camperdown was going on--the Bank of Scotland seemed
to sink into the NorLoch--one gleam through the window of the eyes of the Director-General--and
to be sure how we did make the street-stalls of the Lawn-market spin! The man in St. Giles's
steeple was playing his one o'clock tune on the bells, heedless in that elevation of our career--in
less than no time John Knox, preaching from a house half-way down the Canongate, gave us the
go-by--and down through one long wide sprawl of men, women, and children we wheeled past the
Gothic front, and round the south angle of Holyrood, and across the King's-park, where wan
and withered sporting debtors held up their hands and cried, Hurra--hurra--hurra--without stop
or stay, up the rocky way that leads to St. Anthony's Well and Chapel--and now it was manifest
that we were bound for the summit of Arthur's Seat. We hope that we were sufficiently thankful
that a direction was not taken towards Salisbury Crags, where we should have been dashed into
many million pieces. Free now from even the slightest suburban impediment, obstacle, or interruption,
we began to eye our gradually rising situation in life--and looking over our shoulder, the
sight of city and sea was indeed magnificent. There in the distance rose North Berwick Law--but
though we have plenty of time now for description, we had scant time then for beholding perhaps
the noblest scenery in Scotland. Up with us--up with us into the clouds--and just as St. Giles's
bells ceased to jingle, and both girths broke, we crowned the summit, and sat on horseback
like king Arthur himself, eight hundred feet above the level of the sea!

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Select Biography

       *       *       *       *       *

No. LVIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

LELAND.

