As we strolled down one of the broad roads under the shade of the noble trees, we saw the sun
setting in a red-gold haze; a glory of vivid colour made indescribably tender and opalescent
by the kind of luminous mist that veils it; a wholly English sunset, and an altogether lovely
one. And quite away from the other knots of people, there leaned against a bit of wire fence
a poor old man surrounded by half a dozen children and one tired woman with a nursing baby.
He had a tattered book, which seemed to be the story of the Gospels, and his little flock sat
on the greensward at his feet as he read. It may be that he, too, had been a shouter in his
lustier manhood, and had held a larger audience together by the power of his belief; but now
he was helpless to attract any but the children. Whether it was the pathos of his white hairs,
his garb of shreds and patches, or the mild benignity of his eye that moved me, I know not,
but among all the Sunday shouters in Hyde Park it seemed to me that that quavering voice of
the past spoke with the truest note.

Chapter VI. The English Park Lover.

The English Park Lover, loving his love on a green bench in Kensington Gardens or Regent's
Park, or indeed in any spot where there is a green bench, so long as it is within full view
of the passer-by,--this English public lover, male or female, is a most interesting study,
for we have not his exact counterpart in America. He is thoroughly respectable, I should think,
my urban Colin. He does not have the air of a gay deceiver roving from flower to flower, stealing
honey as he goes; he looks, on the contrary, as if it were his intention to lead Phoebe to
the altar on the next bank holiday; there is a dead calm in his actions which bespeaks no other
course. If Colin were a Don Juan, surely he would be a trifle more ardent, for there is no
tropical fervour in his matter-of-fact caresses. He does not embrace Phoebe in the park, apparently,
because he adores her to madness; because her smile is like fire in his veins, melting down
all his defences; because the intoxication of her nearness is irresistible; because, in fine,
he cannot wait until he finds a more secluded spot: nay, verily, he embraces her because--tell
me, infatuated fruiterers, poulterers, soldiers, haberdashers (limited), what is your reason?
For it does not appear to the casual eye. Stormy weather does not vex the calm of the Park
Lover, for 'the rains of Marly do not wet' when one is in love. By a clever manipulation of
four arms and four hands they can manage an umbrella and enfold each other at the same time,
though a feminine macintosh is well known to be ill adapted to the purpose, and a continuous
drizzle would dampen almost any other lover in the universe.

The park embrace, as nearly as I can analyse it, seems to be one part instinct, one part duty,
one part custom, and one part reflex action. I have purposely omitted pleasure (which, in the
analysis of the ordinary embrace, reduces all the other ingredients to an almost invisible
faction), because I fail to find it; but I am willing to believe that in some rudimentary form
it does exist, because man attends to no purely unpleasant matter with such praiseworthy assiduity.
Anything more fixedly stolid than the Park Lover when he passes his arm round his chosen one
and takes her crimson hand in his, I have never seen; unless, indeed, it be the fixed stolidity
of the chosen one herself. I had not at first the assurance even to glance at them as I passed
by, blushing myself to the roots of my hair, though the offenders themselves never changed
colour. Many a time have I walked out of my way or lowered my parasol, for fear of invading
their Sunday Eden; but a spirit of inquiry awoke in me at last, and I began to make psychological
investigations, with a view to finding out at what point embarrassment would appear in the
Park Lover. I experimented (it was a most arduous and unpleasant task) with upwards of two
hundred couples, and it is interesting to record that self-consciousness was not apparent in
a single instance. It was not merely that they failed to resent my stopping in the path directly
opposite them, or my glaring most offensively at them, nor that they even allowed me to sit
upon their green bench and witness their chaste salutes, but it was that they did fail to perceive
me at all! There is a kind of superb finish and completeness about their indifference to the
public gaze which removes it from ordinary immodesty, and gives it a certain scientific value.

Chapter VII. A ducal tea-party.

Among all my English experiences, none occupies so important a place as my forced meeting with
the Duke of Cimicifugas. (There can be no harm in my telling the incident, so long as I do
not give the right names, which are very well known to fame.) The Duchess of Cimicifugas, who
is charming, unaffected, and lovable, so report says, has among her chosen friends an untitled
woman whom we will call Mrs. Apis Mellifica. I met her only daughter, Hilda, in America, and
we became quite intimate. It seems that Mrs. Apis Mellifica, who has an income of 20,000 pounds
a year, often exchanges presents with the duchess, and at this time she had brought with her
from the Continent some rare old tapestries with which to adorn a new morning-room at Cimicifugas
House. These tapestries were to be hung during the absence of the duchess in Homburg, and were
to greet her as a birthday surprise on her return. Hilda Mellifica, who is one of the most
talented amateur artists in London, and who has exquisite taste in all matters of decoration,
was to go down to the ducal residence to inspect the work, and she obtained permission from
Lady Veratrum (the confidential companion of the duchess) to bring me with her. I started on
this journey to the country with all possible delight, little surmising the agonies that lay
in store for me in the mercifully hidden future.

The tapestries were perfect, and Lady Veratrum was most amiable and affable, though the blue
blood of the Belladonnas courses in her veins, and her great-grandfather was the celebrated
Earl of Rhus Tox, who rendered such notable service to his sovereign. We roamed through the
splendid apartments, inspected the superb picture-gallery, where scores of dead-and-gone Cimicifugases
(most of them very plain) were glorified by the art of Van Dyck, Sir Joshua, or Gainsborough,
and admired the priceless collections of marbles and cameos and bronzes. It was about four
o'clock when we were conducted to a magnificent apartment for a brief rest, as we were to return
to London at half-past six. As Lady Veratrum left us, she remarked casually, 'His Grace will
join us at tea.'

The door closed, and at the same moment I fell upon the brocaded satin state bed and tore off
my hat and gloves like one distraught.

"Hilda," I gasped, "you brought me here, and you must rescue me, for I absolutely decline to
drink tea with a duke."

"Nonsense, Penelope, don't be absurd," she replied. "I have never happened to see him myself,
and I am a trifle nervous, but it cannot be very terrible, I should think."

"Not to you, perhaps, but to me impossible," I said. "I thought he was in Homburg, or I would
never have entered this place. It is not that I fear nobility. I could meet Her Majesty the
Queen at the Court of St. James without the slightest flutter of embarrassment, because I know
I could trust her not to presume on my defencelessness to enter into conversation with me.
But this duke, whose dukedom very likely dates back to the hour of the Norman Conquest, is
a very different person, and is to be met under very different circumstances. He may ask me
my politics. Of course I can tell him that I am a Mugwump, but what if he asks me why I am
a Mugwump?"

"He will not," Hilda answered. "Englishmen are not wholly devoid of feeling!"

"And how shall I address him?" I went on. "Does one call him 'your Grace,' or 'your Royal Highness'?
Oh for a thousandth-part of the unblushing impertinence of that countrywoman of mine who called
your future king 'Tummy'! but she was a beauty, and I am not pretty enough to be anything but
discreetly well-mannered. Shall you sit in his presence, or stand and grovel alternately? Does
one have to curtsy? Very well, then, make any excuses you like for me, Hilda: say I'm eccentric,
say I'm deranged, say I'm a Nihilist. I will hide under the scullery table, fling myself in
the moat, lock myself in the keep, let the portcullis fall on me, die any appropriate early
English death,--anything rather than curtsy in a tailor-made gown; I can kneel beautifully,
Hilda, if that will do: you remember my ancestors were brought up on kneeling, and yours on
curtsying, and it makes a great difference in the muscles."

Hilda smiled benignantly as she wound the coil of russet hair round her shapely head. "He will
think whatever you do charming, and whatever you say brilliant," she said; "that is the advantage
in being an American woman."

Just at this moment Lady Veratrum sent a haughty maid to ask us if we would meet her under
the trees in the park which surrounds the house. I hailed this as a welcome reprieve to the
dreaded function of tea with the duke, and made up my mind, while descending the marble staircase,
that I would slip away and lose myself accidentally in the grounds, appearing only in time
for the London train. This happy mode of issue from my difficulties lent a springiness to my
step, as we followed a waxwork footman over the velvet sward to a nook under a group of copper
beeches. But there, to my dismay, stood a charmingly appointed tea-table glittering with silver
and Royal Worcester, with several liveried servants bringing cakes and muffins and berries
to Lady Veratrum, who sat behind the steaming urn. I started to retreat, when there appeared,
walking towards us, a simple man, with nothing in the least extraordinary about him.

"That cannot be the Duke of Cimicifugas," thought I, "a man in a corduroy jacket, without a
sign of a suite; probably it is a Banished Duke come from the Forest of Arden for a buttered
muffin."

But it was the Duke of Cimicifugas, and no other. Hilda was presented first, while I tried
to fire my courage by thinking of the Puritan Fathers, and Plymouth Rock, and the Boston Tea-Party,
and the battle of Bunker Hill. Then my turn came. I murmured some words which might have been
anything, and curtsied in a stiff-necked self-respecting sort of way. Then we talked,--at least
the duke and Lady Veratrum talked. Hilda said a few blameless words, such as befitted an untitled
English virgin in the presence of the nobility; while I maintained the probationary silence
required by Pythagoras of his first year's pupils. My idea was to observe this first duke without
uttering a word, to talk with the second (if I should ever meet a second), to chat with the
third, and to secure the fourth for Francesca to take home to America with her.

Of course I know that dukes are very dear, but she could afford any reasonable sum, if she
found one whom she fancied; the principal obstacle in the path is that tiresome American lawyer
with whom she considers herself in love. I have never gone beyond that first experience, however,
for dukes in England are as rare as snakes in Ireland. I can't think why they allow them to
die out so,--the dukes, not the snakes. If a country is to have an aristocracy, let there be
enough of it, say I, and make it imposing at the top, where it shows most, especially since,
as I understand it, all that Victoria has to do is to say, 'Let there be dukes,' and there
are dukes.

Chapter VIII. Tuppenny travels in London.

If one really wants to know London, one must live there for years and years.

This sounds like a reasonable and sensible statement, yet the moment it is made I retract it,
as quite misleading and altogether too general.

We have a charming English friend who has not been to the Tower since he was a small boy, and
begs us to conduct him there on the very next Saturday. Another has not seen Westminster Abbey
for fifteen years, because he attends church at St. Dunstan's-in-the-East. Another says that
he should like to have us 'read up' London in the red-covered Baedeker, and then show it to
him, properly and systematically. Another, a flower of the nobility, confesses that he never
mounted the top of an omnibus in the evening for the sake of seeing London after dark, but
that he thinks it would be rather jolly, and that he will join us in such a democratic journey
at any time we like.

We think we get a kind of vague apprehension of what London means from the top of a 'bus better
than anywhere else, and this vague apprehension is as much as the thoughtful or imaginative
observer will ever arrive at in a lifetime. It is too stupendous to be comprehended. The mind
is dazed by its distances, confused by its contrasts; tossed from the spectacle of its wealth
to the contemplation of its poverty, the brilliancy of its extravagances to the stolidity of
its miseries, the luxuries that blossom in Mayfair to the brutalities that lurk in Whitechapel.

We often set out on a fine morning, Salemina and I, and travel twenty miles in the day, though
we have to double our twopenny fee several times to accomplish that distance.

We never know whither we are going, and indeed it is not a matter of great moment (I mean to
a woman) where everything is new and strange, and where the driver, if one is fortunate enough
to be on a front seat, tells one everything of interest along the way, and instructs one regarding
a different route back to town.

We have our favourite 'buses, of course; but when one appears, and we jump on while it is still
in motion, as the conductor seems to prefer, and pull ourselves up the cork-screw stairway,--not
a simple matter in the garments of sophistication,--we have little time to observe more than
the colour of the lumbering vehicle.

We like the Cadbury's Cocoa 'bus very much; it takes you by St. Mary-le-Strand, Bow-Bells,
the Temple, Mansion House, St, Paul's, and the Bank.

If you want to go and lunch, or dine frugally, at the Cheshire Cheese, eat black pudding and
drink pale ale, sit in Dr. Johnson's old seat, and put your head against the exact spot on
the wall where his rested,--although the traces of this form of worship are all too apparent,--then
you jump on a Lipton's Tea 'bus, and are deposited at the very door. All is novel, and all
is interesting, whether it be crowded streets of the East End traversed by the Davies' Pea-Fed
Bacon 'buses, or whether you ride to the very outskirts of London, through green fields and
hedgerows, by the Ridge's Food or Nestle's Milk route.

There are trams, too, which take one to delightful places, though the seats on top extend lengthwise,
after the old 'knifeboard pattern,' and one does not get so good a view of the country as from
the 'garden seats' on the roof of the omnibus; still there is nothing we like better on a warm
morning than a good outing on the Vinolia tram that we pick up in Shaftesbury Avenue. There
is a street running from Shaftesbury Avenue into Oxford Street, which was once the village
of St. Giles, one of the dozens of hamlets swallowed up by the great maw of London, and it
still looks like a hamlet, although it has been absorbed for many years. We constantly happen
on these absorbed villages, from which, not a century ago, people drove up to town in their
coaches.

If you wish to see another phase of life, go out on a Saturday evening, from nine o'clock on
to eleven, starting on a Beecham's Pill 'bus, and keep to the poorer districts, alighting occasionally
to stand with the crowd in the narrower thoroughfares.

It is a market night, and the streets will be a moving mass of men and women buying at the
hucksters' stalls. Everything that can be sold at a stall is there: fruit, vegetables, meat,
fish, crockery, tin-ware, children's clothing, cheap toys, boots, shoes, and sun-bonnets, all
in reckless confusion. The vendors cry their wares in stentorian tones, vying with one another
to produce excitement and induce patronage, while gas-jets are streaming into the air from
the roofs and flaring from the sides of the stalls; children crying, children dancing to the
strains of an accordion, children quarrelling, children scrambling for the refuse fruit. In
the midst of this spectacle, this din and uproar, the women are chaffering and bargaining quite
calmly, watching the scales to see that they get their full pennyworth or sixpennyworth of
this or that. To the student of faces, of manners, of voices, of gestures; to the person who
sees unwritten and unwritable stories in all these groups of men, women, and children, the
scene reveals many things: some comedies, many tragedies, a few plain narratives (thank God!)
and now and then--only now and then--a romance. As to the dark alleys and tenements on the
fringe of this glare and brilliant confusion, this Babel of sound and ant-bed of moving life,
one can only surmise and pity and shudder; close one's eyes and ears to it a little, or one
could never sleep for thinking of it, yet not too tightly lest one sleep too soundly, and forget
altogether the seamy side of things. One can hardly believe that there is a seamy side when
one descends from his travelling observatory a little later, and stands on Westminster Bridge,
or walks along the Thames Embankment. The lights of Parliament House gleam from a hundred windows,
and in the dark shadows by the banks thousands of coloured discs of light twinkle and dance
and glow like fairy lamps, and are reflected in the silver surface of the river. That river,
as full of mystery and contrast in its course as London itself--where is such another? It has
ever been a river of pageants, a river of sighs; a river into whose placid depths kings and
queens, princes and cardinals, have whispered state secrets, and poets have breathed immortal
lines; a stream of pleasure, bearing daily on its bosom such a freight of youth and mirth and
colour and music as no other river in the world can boast.

Sometimes we sally forth in search of adventures in the thick of a 'London particular,' Mr.
Guppy's phrase for a fog. When you are once ensconced in your garden seat by the driver, you
go lumbering through a world of bobbing shadows, where all is weird, vague, grey, dense; and
where great objects loom up suddenly in the mist and then disappear; where the sky, heavy and
leaden, seems to descend bodily upon your head, and the air is full of a kind of luminous yellow
smoke.

A Lipton's Tea 'bus is the only one we can see plainly in this sort of weather, and so we always
take it. I do not wish, however, to be followed literally in these modest suggestions for omnibus
rides, because I am well aware that they are not sufficiently specific for the ordinary tourist
who wishes to see London systematically and without any loss of time. If you care to go to
any particular place, or reach that place by any particular time, you must not, of course,
look at the most conspicuous signs on the tops and ends of the chariots as we do; you must
stand quietly at one of the regular points of departure and try to decipher, in a narrow horizontal
space along the side, certain little words that show the route and destination of the vehicle.
They say that it can be done, and I do not feel like denying it on my own responsibility. Old
Londoners assert that they are not blinded or confused by Pears' Soap in letters two feet high,
scarlet on a gold ground, but can see below in fine print, and with the naked eye, such legends
as Tottenham Court Road, Westbourne Grove, St. Pancras, Paddington, or Victoria. It is certainly
reasonable that the omnibuses should be decorated to suit the inhabitants of the place rather
than foreigners, and it is perhaps better to carry a few hundred stupid souls to the wrong
station daily than to allow them to cleanse their hands with the wrong soap, or quench their
thirst with the wrong (which is to say the unadvertised) beverage.

The conductors do all in their power to mitigate the lot of unhappy strangers, and it is only
now and again that you hear an absent-minded or logical one call out, 'Castoria! all the w'y
for a penny.'

We claim for our method of travelling, not that it is authoritative, but that it is simple--suitable
to persons whose desires are flexible and whose plans are not fixed. It has its disadvantages,
which may indeed be said of almost anything. For instance, we had gone for two successive mornings
on a Cadbury's Cocoa 'bus to Francesca's dressmaker in Kensington. On the third morning, deceived
by the ambitious and unscrupulous Cadbury, we mounted it and journeyed along comfortably three
miles to the east of Kensington before we discovered our mistake. It was a pleasant and attractive
neighbourhood where we found ourselves, but unfortunately Francesca's dressmaker did not reside
there.

If you have determined to take a certain train from a certain station, and do not care for
any other, no matter if it should turn out to be just as interesting, then never take a Lipton's
Tea 'bus, for it is the most unreliable of all. If it did not sound so learned, and if I did
not feel that it must have been said before, it is so apt, I should quote Horace, and say,
'Omnibus hoc vitium est.' There is no 'bus unseized by the Napoleonic Lipton. Do not ascend
one of them supposing for a moment that by paying fourpence and going to the very end of the
route you will come to a neat tea station, where you will be served with the cheering cup.
Never; nor with a draught of Cadbury's cocoa or Nestle's milk, although you have jostled along
for nine weary miles in company with their blatant recommendations to drink nothing else, and
though you may have passed other 'buses with the same highly-coloured names glaring at you
until they are burned into the grey matter of your brain, to remain there as long as the copy-book
maxims you penned when you were a child.

These pictorial methods doubtless prove a source of great financial gain; of course it must
be so, or they would never be prosecuted; but although they may allure millions of customers,
they will lose two in our modest persons. When Salemina and I go into a cafe for tea we ask
the young woman if they serve Lipton's, and if they say yes, we take coffee. This is self-punishment
indeed (in London!), yet we feel that it may have a moral effect; perhaps not commensurate
with the physical effect of the coffee upon us, but these delicate matters can never be adjusted
with absolute exactitude.

Sometimes when we are to travel on a Pears' Soap 'bus we buy beforehand a bit of pure white
Castile, cut from a shrinking, reserved, exclusive bar with no name upon it, and present it
to some poor woman when we arrive at our journey's end. We do not suppose that so insignificant
a protest does much good, but at least it preserves one's individuality and self-respect.

Chapter IX. A Table of Kindred and Affinity.

On one of our excursions Hilda Mellifica accompanied us, and we alighted to see the place where
the Smithfield martyrs were executed, and to visit some of the very old churches in that vicinity.

I cannot explain it, but it really seemed in some way that our chances of a 'sweet, safe corner
of the household fire' had materially decreased when we had read the table.

"It only goes to prove what Salemina remarked yesterday," I said: "that we can go on doing
a thing quite properly until we have seen the rule for it printed in black and white. The moment
we read the formula we fail to see how we could ever have followed it; we are confused by its
complexities, and we do not feel the slightest confidence in our ability to do consciously
the thing we have done all our lives unconsciously."

"Like the centipede," quoted Salemina:--

     "'The centipede was happy quite
       Until the toad, for fun,
       Said, "Pray, which leg goes after which?"
       Which wrought his mind to such a pitch,
       He lay distracted in a ditch
       Considering how to run!'"

"The Table of Kindred and Affinity is all too familiar to me," sighed Hilda, "because we had
a governess who made us learn it as a punishment. I suppose I could recite it now, although
I haven't looked at it for ten years. We used to chant it in the nursery schoolroom on wet
afternoons. I well remember that the vicar called one day to see us, and the governess, hearing
our voices uplifted in a pious measure, drew him under the window to listen. This is what he
heard--you will see how admirably it goes! And do not imagine it is wicked: it is merely the
Law, not the Gospel, and we framed our own musical settings, so that we had no associations
with the Prayer Book."

Here Hilda chanted softly, there being no one in the old churchyard:--

"A woman may not marry with her Grandfather. Grandmother's Husband, Husband's Grandfather..
Father's Brother. Mother's Brother. Father's Sister's Husband.. Mother's Sister's Husband.
Husband's Father's Brother. Husband's Mother's Brother.. Father. Step-Father. Husband's Father..
Son. Husband's Son. Daughter's Husband.. Brother. Husband's Brother. Sister's Husband.. Son's
Son. Daughter's Son. Son's Daughter's Husband.. Daughter's Daughter's Husband. Husband's Son's
Son. Husband's Daughter's Son .. Brother's Son. Sister's Son. Brother's Daughter's Husband..
Sister's Daughter's Husband. Husband's Brother's Son. Husband's Sister's Son."

"It seems as if there were nobody left," I said disconsolately, "save perhaps your Second Cousin's
Uncle, or your Enemy's Dearest Friend."

"That's just the effect it has on one," answered Hilda. "We always used to conclude our chant
with the advice:--

"And if there is anybody, after this, in the universe. left to. marry.. marry him as expeditiously.
as you. possibly. can.. Because there are very few husbands omitted from this table of. Kindred
and. Affinity.. And it behoveth a maiden to snap them up without any delay. willing or unwilling.
whenever and. wherever found."

"We were also required to learn by heart the form of Prayer with Thanksgiving to be used Yearly
upon the Fifth Day of November for the happy deliverance of King James I. and the Three Estates
of England from the most traitorous and bloody-intended Massacre by Gunpowder; also the prayers
for Charles the Martyr and the Thanksgiving for having put an end to the Great Rebellion by
the Restitution of the King and Royal Family after many Years' interruption which unspeakable
Mercies were wonderfully completed upon the 29th of May in the year 1660!"

"1660! We had been forty years in America then," soliloquised Francesca; "and isn't it odd
that the long thanksgivings in our country must all have been for having successfully run away
from the Gunpowder Treason, King Charles the Martyr, and the Restituted Royal Family; yet here
we are, you and I, the best of friends, talking it all over."

