"I have suppressed your address, as it was incendiary.  Eleven-twelfths of the Corps Legislatif
are composed of good citizens whom I know and for whom I have much regard; the other twelfth
is composed of seditious persons who are devoted to England.  Your Commission and its chairman,
M. Laine, are of this number.  He corresponds with the Prince Regent, through the lawyer Deseze.
I know it, and have proof of it.  The other four are of the same faction.  If there are abuses
to be remedied, is this a time for remonstrances, when two hundred thousand Cossacks are crossing
our frontiers?  Is this the moment to dispute as to individual liberty and safety, when the
question is the preservation of political liberty and national independence?  The enemy must
be resisted; you must follow the example of the Alsatians, Vosges, and inhabitants of Franche-
Comte, who wish to march against them, and have applied to me-for arms. You endeavor in your
address to separate the sovereign from the nation. It is I who here represent the people, who
have given me four million of their suffrages.  If I believed you I should cede to the enemy
more than he demands.  You shall have peace in three months or I shall perish. Your address
was an insult to me and to the Corps Legislatif."

Although the journals were forbidden to repeat the details of this scene, the rumors of it
spread through Paris with the rapidity of lightning. The Emperor's words were repeated and
commented on; the dismissed deputies sounded them through all the departments.  I remember
seeing the prime arch-chancellor next day come to the Emperor and request an audience; it was
in favor of M. Deseze, whose protector he then was.  In spite of the threatening words of his
Majesty, he found him not disposed to take severe measures; for his anger had already exhausted
itself, as was always the case with the Emperor when he had abandoned himself to his first
emotions of fury.  However, the fatal misunderstanding between the Corps Legislatif and the
Emperor, caused by the report of the committee of that body, produced the most grievous effects;
and it is easy to conceive how much the enemy must have rejoiced over this, as they never failed
to be promptly informed by the numerous agents whom they employed in France.  It was under
these sad circumstances that the year 1813 closed.  We will see in future what were the consequences
of it, and in fact the history, until now unwritten, of the Emperor's inner life at Fontainebleau;
that is to say, of the most painful period of my life.

CHAPTER, XXI.

In order to neutralize the effects which might be produced in the provinces by the reports
of the members of the Corps Legislatif and the correspondence of the alarmists, his Majesty
appointed from the members of the conservative senate a certain number of commissioners whom
he charged to visit the departments and restore public confidence.  This was a most salutary
measure, and one which circumstances imperiously demanded; for discouragement began to be felt
among the masses of the population, and as is well known in such cases the presence of superior
authority restores confidence to those who are only timid.  Nevertheless, the enemy were advancing
at several points, and had already pressed the soil of Old France.  When this news reached
the Emperor, it afflicted him deeply without overcoming him.  At times, however, his indignation
broke forth; above all, when he learned from the reports that French emigrants had entered
the enemy's ranks, whom he stigmatized by the name of traitors, infamous and wretched creatures,
unworthy of pity.  I remember that on the occasion of the capture of Huningen he thus characterized
a certain M. de Montjoie, who was now serving in the Bavarian army after taking a German name,
which I have forgotten.  The Emperor added, however: "At least, he has had the modesty not
to keep his French name." In general easy to conciliate on nearly all points, the Emperor was
pitiless towards all those who bore arms against their country; and innumerable times I have
heard him say that there was no greater crime in his eyes.

In order not to add to the complication of so many conflicting interests which encountered
and ran contrary to each other still more each day, the Emperor already had the thought of
sending Ferdinand VII. back into Spain.  I have the certainty that his Majesty had even made
some overtures to him on this subject during his last stay in Paris; but it was the Spanish
prince who objected to this, not ceasing, on the contrary, to demand the Emperor's protection.
He desired most of all to become the ally, of his Majesty, and it was well known that in his
letters to his Majesty he urged him incessantly to give him a wife of the Emperor's selection.
The Emperor had seriously thought of marrying him to the eldest daughter of King Joseph, which
seemed a means of conciliating at the same time the rights of Prince Joseph and those of Ferdinand
VII., and King Joseph asked nothing better than to be made a party to this arrangement; and
from the manner in which he had used his royalty since the commencement of his reign, we may
be permitted to think that his Majesty did not greatly object to this.  Prince Ferdinand had
acquiesced in this alliance, which appeared very agreeable to him, when suddenly at the end
of the year 1813 he demanded time; and the course of events placed this affair among the number
of those which existed only in intention.  Prince Ferdinand left Valencay at last, but later
than the Emperor had authorized him to do, and for some time his presence had been only an
additional embarrassment.  However, the Emperor had no reason to complain of his conduct towards
him until after the events of Fontainebleau.

At any rate, in the serious situation of affairs, matters concerning the Prince of Spain were
only an incidental matter, no more important than the stay of the Pope at Fontainebleau; the
great point, the object which predominated everything, was the defense of the soil of France,
which the first days of January found invaded at many points.  This was the one thought of
his Majesty, which did not prevent him, nevertheless, from entering according to custom into
all the duties of his administration; and we will soon see the measures he took to re-establish
the national guard of Paris.  I have on this subject certain documents and particulars which
are little known, from a person whose name I am not permitted to give, but whose position gave
him the opportunity of learning all the intricacies of its formation.  As all these duties
still required for more than a month the presence of his Majesty at Paris, he remained there
until the 25th of January.

But what fatal news he received during those twenty-five days!

First the Emperor learned that the Russians, as unscrupulous as the Austrians in observing
the conditions of a capitulation which are usually considered sacred, had just trampled under
their feet the stipulations made at Dantzic.  In the name of the Emperor Alexander, the Prince
of Wurtemberg who commanded the siege had acknowledged and guaranteed to General Rapp and the
troops placed under his command the right to return to France, which agreement was no more
respected than had been a few months before that made with Marshal Saint-Cyr by the Prince
of Schwarzenberg; thus the garrison of Dantzic were made prisoners with the same bad faith
as that of Dresden had been.  This news, which reached him at almost the same time as that
of the surrender of Torgau, distressed his Majesty so much the more as it contributed to prove
to him that these powerful enemies wished to treat of peace only in name, with a resolution
to retire always before a definite conclusion was reached.

At the same period the news from Lyons was in no wise reassuring.  The command of this place
had been confided to Marshal Augereau, and he was accused of having lacked the energy necessary
to foresee or arrest the invasion of the south of France.  Further I will not now dwell on
this circumstance, proposing in the following chapter to collect my souvenirs which relate
more especially to the beginning of the campaign in France, and some circumstances which preceded
it.  I limit myself consequently to recalling, as far as my memory serves, events which occurred
during the last days the Emperor passed in Paris.

From the 4th of January his Majesty, although having lost, as I said a while since, all hope
of inducing the invaders to conclude a peace, which the whole world so much needed, gave his
instructions to the Duke of Vicenza, and sent him to the headquarters of the allies; but he
was compelled to wait a long time for his passports.  At the same time special orders were
sent to the prefects of departments in the invaded territory as to the conduct they should
pursue under such difficult circumstances.  Thinking at the same time that it was indispensable
to make an example in order to strengthen the courage of the timid, the Emperor ordered the
creation of a commission of inquiry, charged to inquire into the conduct of Baron Capelle,
prefect of the department of the Leman at the time of the entrance of the enemy into Geneva.
Finally a decree mobilized one hundred and twenty battalions of the National Guard of the Empire,
and ordered a levy en masse on all the departments of the east of all men capable of bearing
arms.  Excellent measures doubtless, but vain!  Destiny was stronger than even the genius of
a great man.

Meanwhile on the 8th of January appeared the decree which called out for active duty thirty
thousand men of the National Guard of Paris on the very day when by a singular and fatal coincidence
the King of Naples signed a treaty of alliance with Great Britain.  The Emperor reserved for
himself the chief command of the National Parisian Guard, and constituted the staff as follows:
a vice-commander-in-chief, four aides who were major-generals, four adjutant commandants, and
eight assistant captains. A legion was formed in each district, and each legion was divided
into four battalions subdivided into five companies.--Next the Emperor appointed the following
to superior grades:

General vice-commander-in-chief.--Marshal de Moncey, Duke of Conegliano.

Aides--major-generals.--General of division, Count Hullin; Count Bertrand, grand marshal of
the palace; Count of Montesquieu, grand chamberlain; Count de Montmorency, chamberlain of the
Emperor.

Adjutant-commandants.--Baron Laborde, adjutant-commandant of the post of Paris; Count Albert
de Brancas, chamberlain of the Emperor;  Count Germain, chamberlain of the Emperor; M. Tourton.

Assistant captains.--Count Lariboisiere; Chevalier Adolphe de Maussion; Messieurs Jules de
Montbreton, son of the equerry of the Princess Borghese; Collin, junior, the younger; Lecordier,
junior; Lemoine, junior; Cardon, junior; Malet, junior.

Chiefs of the twelve Legions.--First legion, Count de Gontaut, senior; second legion, Count
Regnault de Saint Jean d'Angely; third legion, Baron Hottinguer, banker; fourth legion, Count
Jaubert, governor of the bank of France; fifth legion, M. Dauberjon de Murinais; sixth legion,
M. de Fraguier; seventh legion, M. Lepileur de Brevannes; eighth legion, M. Richard Lenoir;
ninth legion, M. Devins de Gaville; tenth legion, the Duke of Cadore; eleventh legion, Count
de Choiseul-Praslin, chamberlain of the Emperor; twelfth legion, M. Salleron.

From the names we have just read, we may judge of the incredible insight by which his Majesty
was enabled to choose, among the most distinguished persons of the different classes of society,
those most popular and most influential from their positions.  By the side of the names which
had gained glory under the eyes of the Emperor, and by seconding him in his great undertakings,
could be found those whose claim to distinction was more ancient and recalled noble memories,
and finally the heads of the principal industries in the capital.  This species of amalgamation
delighted the Emperor greatly; and he must have attached to it great political importance,
for this idea occupied his attention to such an extent that I have often heard him say, "I
wish to confound all classes, all periods, all glories.  I desire that no title may be more
glorious than the title of Frenchman."  Why is it fate decreed that the Emperor should not
be allowed time to carry out his extensive plans for the glory and happiness of France of which
he so often spoke?  The staff of the National Guard and the chiefs of the twelve legions being
appointed, the Emperor left the nomination of the other officers, as well as the formation
of the legions, to the selection of M. de Chabrol, prefect of the Seine.  This worthy magistrate,
to whom the Emperor was much attached, displayed under these circumstances the greatest zeal
and activity, and in a short time the National Guard presented an imposing appearance.  They
were armed, equipped, and clothed in the best possible manner; and this ardor, which might
be called general, was in these last days one of the consolations which most deeply touched
the heart of the Emperor, since he saw in it a proof of the attachment of the Parisians to
his person, and an additional motive for feeling secure as to the tranquillity of the capital
during his approaching absence.  Be that as it may, the bureau of the National Guard was soon
formed, and established in the residence which Marshal Moncey inhabited on the Rue du Faubourg
Saint-Honore, near the square Beauveau; and one master of requests and two auditors of the
council of state were attached to it.  The master of requests, a superior officer of engineers,
the Chevalier Allent, soon be came the soul of the whole administration of the National Guard,
no one being more capable than he of giving a lively impulse to an organization which required
great promptness.  The person from whom I obtained this information, which I intermingle with
my personal souvenirs, has assured me that following upon, that is to say, after our departure
for Chalons- sur-Marne, M. Allent became still more influential in the National Guard, of which
he was the real head.  In fact, when King Joseph had received the title of lieutenant-general
to the Emperor, which his Majesty conferred on him during the time of his absence, M. Allent
found himself attached on one hand to the staff of King Joseph as officer of engineers, and
on the other to the vice-general-in-chief in his quality of master of requests.  It resulted
that he was the mediator and counselor in all communications which were necessarily established
between the lieutenant- general of the Emperor and Marshal Moncey, and the promptness of his
decisions was a source of great benefit to that good and grave marshal. He signed all letters,
"The Marshal, Duke de Conegliano;" and wrote so slowly that M. Allent had, so to speak, time
to write the correspondence while the marshal was signing his name.  The auditors to the council
of state duties of the two were nothing, or nearly so; but these men were by no means nobodies,
as has been asserted, though a few of that character of course slipped into the council, since
the first condition for holding this office was simply to prove an income of at least six thousand
francs.  These were Messieurs Ducancel, the dean of the auditors, and M. Robert de Sainte-Croix.
A shell had broken the latter's leg during the return from Moscow; and this brave young man,
a captain of cavalry, had returned, seated astride a cannon, from the banks of the Beresina
to Wilna.  Having little physical strength, but gifted with a strong mind, M. Robert de Sainte-Croix
owed it to his moral courage not to succumb; and after undergoing the amputation of his leg,
left the sword for the pen, and it was thus he became auditor to the council of state.

The week after the National Guard of the city of Paris had been called into service, the chiefs
of the twelve legions and the general staff were admitted to take the oath of fidelity at the
Emperor's hands.  The National Guard had already been organized into legions; but the want
of arms was keenly felt, and many citizens could procure only lances, and those who could not
obtain guns or buy them found themselves thereby chilled in their ardor to equip themselves.
Nevertheless, the Citizen Guard soon enrolled the desired number of thirty thousand men, and
by degrees it occupied the different posts of the capital; and whilst fathers of families and
citizens employed in domestic work were enrolled without difficulty, those who had already
paid their debts to their country on the battlefield also demanded to be allowed to serve her
again, and to shed for her the last drop of their blood.  Invalided soldiers begged to resume
their service.  Hundreds of these brave soldiers forgot their sufferings, and covered with
honorable wounds went forth again to confront the enemy.  Alas!  very few of those who then
left the Hotel des Invalides were fortunate enough to return.

Meanwhile the moment of the Emperor's departure approached; but before setting out he bade
a touching adieu to the National Guard, as we shall see in the next chapter, and confided the
regency to the Empress as he had formerly intrusted it to her during the campaign in Dresden.
Alas this time it was not necessary to make a long journey before the Emperor was at the head
of his army.

CHAPTER XXII.

We are now about to begin the campaign of miracles; but before relating the events which I
witnessed on this campaign, during which I, so to speak, never left the Emperor, it is necessary
that I here inscribe some souvenirs which may be considered as a necessary introduction.  It
is well known that the Swiss cantons had solemnly declared to the Emperor that they would not
allow their territory to be violated, and that they would do everything possible to oppose
the passage of the allied armies who were marching on the frontiers of France by way of the
Breisgau.  The Emperor, in order to stop them on their march, relied upon the destruction of
the bridge of Bale; but this bridge was not destroyed, and Switzerland, instead of maintaining
her promised neutrality, entered into the coalition against France.  The foreign armies passed
the Rhine at Bale, at Schaffhausen, and at Mannheim.  Capitulations made with the generals
of the confederated troops in regard to the French garrisons of Dantzic, Dresden, and other
strong towns had been, as we have seen, openly violated.  Thus Marshal Gouvion Saint-Cyr and
his army corps had been, contrary to the stipulations contained in the treaties, surrounded
by superior forces, disarmed, and conducted as prisoners to Austria; and twenty thousand men,
the remains of the garrison of Dantzic, were thus arrested by order of the Emperor Alexander,
and conveyed to the Russian deserts.  Geneva opened its gates to the enemy in the following
January. Vesoul, Epinal, Nancy, Langres, Dijon, Chalons-sur-Saone, and Bar-sur- Aube were occupied
by the allies.

The Emperor, in proportion as the danger became more pressing, displayed still more his energy
and indefatigable activity.  He urged the organization of new levies, and in order to pay the
most urgent expenses drew thirty millions from his secret treasury in the vaults of the pavilion
Marsan.  The levies of conscripts were, however, made with difficulty; for in the course of
the year 1813 alone, one million forty thousand soldiers had been summoned to the field, and
France could no longer sustain such enormous drains.  Meanwhile veterans came from all parts
to be enrolled; and General Carnot offered his services to the Emperor, who was much touched
by this proceeding, and confided to him the defense of Antwerp.  The zeal and courage with
which the general acquitted himself of this important mission is well known.  Movable columns
and corps of partisans placed themselves under arms in the departments of the east, and a few
rich proprietors levied and organized companies of volunteers, while select cavalry formed
themselves into corps, the cavaliers of which equipped themselves at their own expense.

In the midst of these preparations the Emperor received news which moved him deeply,--the King
of Naples had just joined the enemies of the French.  On a previous occasion, when his Majesty
had seen the Prince Royal of Sweden, after having been marshal and prince of the Empire, enter
into a coalition against his native country, I heard him break forth into reproaches and exclamations
of indignation, although the King of Sweden had more than one reason to offer in his own defense,
being alone in the north, and shut in by powerful enemies against whom he was entirely unable
to struggle, even had the interests of his new country been inseparable from those of France.
By refusing to enter into the coalition he would have drawn on Sweden the anger of her formidable
neighbors, and with the throne he would have sacrificed and fruitlessly ruined the nation which
had adopted him.  It was not to the Emperor he owed his elevation.  But King Joachim, on the
contrary, owed everything to the Emperor; for it was he who had given him one of his sisters
as a wife, who had given him a throne, and had treated him as well as, and even better than,
if he had been a brother.  It was consequently the duty of the King of Naples as well as his
interest not to separate his cause from that of France; for if the Emperor fell, how could
the kings of his own family, whom he had made, hope to stand?  Both King Joseph and Jerome
had well understood this, and also the brave and loyal Prince Eugene, who supported courageously
in Italy the cause of his adopted father.  If the King of Naples had united with him they could
together have marched on Vienna, and this audacious but at the same time perfectly practicable
movement would have infallibly saved France.

These are some of the reflections I heard the Emperor make in speaking of the treachery of
the King of Naples, though in the first moments, however, he did not reason so calmly.  His
anger was extreme, and with it was mingled grief and emotions near akin to pity: "Murat !"
cried he, "Murat betray me!  Murat sell himself to the English!  The poor creature! He imagines
that if the allies succeed in overthrowing me they would leave him the throne on which I have
seated him.  Poor fool!  The worst fate that can befall him is that his treachery should succeed;
for he would have less pity to expect from his new allies than from me."

The evening before his departure for the army, the Emperor received the corps of officers of
the National Parisian Guard, and the reception was held in the great hall of the Tuileries.
This ceremony was sad and imposing.  His Majesty presented himself before the assembly with
her Majesty the Empress, who held by the hand the King of Rome, aged three years lacking two
months.  Although his speech on this occasion is doubtless already well known, I repeat it
here, as I do not wish that these beautiful and solemn words of my former master should be
wanting in my Memoirs:

     "GENTLEMEN, Officers of the National Guard,--It is with much
     pleasure I see you assembled around me.  I leave to-night to place
     myself at the head of the army.  On leaving the capital I place with
     confidence in your care my wife and my son on whom rests so many
     hopes.  I owe you this proof of my confidence, in return for all the
     innumerable proofs you have repeatedly given me in the important
     events of my life.  I shall depart with my mind free from anxiety,
     since they will be under your faithful protection.  I leave with you
     what is dearest to me in the world, next to France, and I freely
     commit it to your care.

     "It may occur that in consequence of the maneuvers I am about to
     make, the enemy may find the opportunity of approaching your walls.
     If this should take place, remember that it will be an affair of
     only a few days, and I will soon come to your assistance.  I
     recommend to you to preserve unity among yourselves, and to resist
     all the insinuations by which efforts will be made to divide you.
     There will not be wanting endeavors to shake your fidelity to duty,
     but I rely upon you to repel these perfidious attempts."

At the end of this discourse, the Emperor bent his looks on the Empress and the King of Rome,
whom his august mother held in her arms, and presenting both by his looks and gestures to the
assembly this child whose expressive countenance seemed to reflect the solemnity of the occasion,
he added in an agitated voice, "I confide him to you, Messieurs; I confide him to the love
of my faithful city of Paris!"  At these words of his Majesty innumerable shouts were heard,
and innumerable arms were raised swearing to defend this priceless trust.  The Empress, bathed
in tears and pale with the emotion by which she was agitated, would have fallen if the Emperor
had not supported her in his arms.  At this sight the enthusiasm reached its height, tears
flowed from all eyes, and there was not one present who did not seem willing as he retired
to shed his blood for the Imperial family.  On this occasion I again saw for the first time
M. de Bourrienne at the palace; he wore, if I am not mistaken, the uniform of captain in the
National Guard.

On the 25th of January the Emperor set out for the army, after conferring the regency on her
Majesty the Empress; and that night we reached Chalons-sur-Marne.  His arrival stopped the
progress of the enemy's army and the retreat of our troops.  Two days after he, in his turn,
attacked the allies at Saint-Dizier.  His Majesty's entrance into this town was marked by most
touching manifestations of enthusiasm and devotion.  The very moment the Emperor alighted,
a former colonel, M. Bouland, an old man more than seventy years old, threw himself at his
Majesty's feet, expressing to him the deep grief which the sight of foreign bayonets had caused
him, and his confidence that the Emperor would drive them from the soil of France.  His Majesty
assisted the old veteran to rise, and said to him cheerfully that he would spare nothing to
accomplish such a favorable prediction.  The allies conducted themselves in the most inhuman
manner at Saint-Dizier: women and old men died or were made ill under the cruel treatment which
they received; and it may be imagined what a cause of rejoicing his Majesty's arrival was to
the country.

