On the morning succeeding this terrible crime, the specie was taken from "the run" beneath
the cabin and brought on deck. Each man including Onion and Samberson, the cook, who took no
part in the outrage received a share of the money, which was measured out in hats and tin pots,
a single share amounting to about five thousand dollars.

And now the important question arose to what part of the world should they direct their course,
in order to sell the vessel and cargo and make their escape with their ill-gotten booty; for
they knew the deed would soon be known and the avengers of blood be upon their heels. They,
finally, concluded to shape their course to the northward, and enter some obscure port in Norway,
where no very strict inquisition would probably be made into the character of the vessel of
their intentions, and from which place they could easily find means of proceeding to other
parts of Europe. Onion, who was a skilful penman, was directed to manufacture some new invoices
of cargo and alter other papers in such a manner as to deceive, for a time at least, the revenue
authorities of such port as they might enter; and Williams altered the ship's log-book to correspond
with the story they had agreed upon.

They arrived at Cleveland, a small port in Norway, about the middle of August, and conducted
their affairs in such a way as to give no cause for supposing anything was wrong, But when
Stromer expressed a desire to sell the vessel and cargo, without being particular in regard
to the price, suspicions were excited that all was not right; and those suspicions were strengthened
by some careless remarks of Frederick and Rog after they had been drinking freely. The schooner
was accordingly seized and taken possession of by the proper authorities, and brought round
to another wharf, where an investigation took place. This of course alarmed the guilty crew,
and before their iniquity was discovered, each man took his share of money so dearly earned,
and in all haste left the shores of Norway.

Williams, Onion, Rog, Frederick, and Samberson embarked in a sloop for Copenhagen, where they
landed in fine spirits; and under the direction of Frederick, who was a native of that city,
undertook to open a store, and with this object purchased a variety of goods. But it was not
long before some circumstances drew upon them the attention of the police. They were arrested,
and Samberson exposed the whole horrible transaction. These men were thrown into prison, and
intelligence of their arrest was sent to the American government; but more than two years expired
before they were brought to this country in the United States ship Hornet.

Stromer and White went off together; and Stromer probably proceeded to Prussia with his share
of the money. He was never discovered by the satellites of justice; but White was subsequently
arrested and brought to trial. Petersen, who was a native of Gottenberg, returned directly
to his home. He had parents in that city of respectable standing, besides brothers and sisters.
He told his relatives an ingenious tale to account for his prosperous condition, but he was
speedily tracked by the officers of justice, and one day while enjoying himself with his friends,
and lavishly spending his money, he was arrested for the dreadful crimes of piracy and murder,
and thrown into a dungeon, where he remained heavily ironed for nearly twelve months, when
he was transferred to the brig Joseph for conveyance to the United States.

Chapter XXXVII. RETURN OF THE WANDERER

We sailed from Gottenburg one morning about the first of September, 1817, bound to Boston.
Having been long absent from my home without intercourse of any description with my friends
and relations, and having seen during that period striking exemplifications of the caprices
of fortune, having experienced "many ups and downs," the downs, however, being decidedly in
the majority, I felt a strong desire, a yearning, to return once more to my friends in New
England. I was convinced there were worse places in the world than my own dear native land,
and far worse people than those among whom my lot had been cast in childhood.

It was on a Saturday we sailed from Gottenburg. It had been Captain Allen's intention to sail
on the previous Thursday, but he was unexpectedly detained. On Friday morning all the arrangements
were completed; the brig was ready for sea, the wind was fresh and fair, but not a step was
taken towards getting under weigh. Indeed our worthy captain plumply told Mr. Bowen that NO
CONSIDERATION COULD INDUCE HIM TO GO TO SEA ON A FRIDAY! The crew, one and all, as well as
the mate, were amused at this exhibition of weakness, which did not increase the respect for
his character; for ALL sailors are not superstitious, although they are proverbially regarded
as such.

Petersen, the prisoner, who was brought on board in irons, bore no resemblance in personal
appearance to the ferocious, ill-looking, big-whiskered ruffian, whose image is conjured up
by the mention of the word "pirate." On the contrary he was a gentle-looking youth, only nineteen
years of age, of a slight figure, pale complexion, and a pleasant, prepossessing countenance.
He spoke English fluently, and by his conduct, intelligence, and plausible representations,
soon won the favor of every man on board. He declared that he did not participate in the mutiny;
that it was planned without his knowledge; that when the murders were committed he was asleep
in the forecastle, and fear for his own life induced him to accept a share of the money and
endeavor to conceal the crime.

His story was believed by Captain Allen and others, and he was relieved from his handcuffs
every morning, and allowed to leave his quarters in the half-deck and range the vessel, mix
with the sailors and assist in the performance of the various duties; and he showed himself
an active, obedient, and intelligent seaman. He often expressed a wish that his trial should
take place; he was confident of an acquittal, and longed to be once more at liberty.

I may as well state here that the trial of the mutineers of the Plattsburg, viz., Williams,
Rog, Frederick, Petersen, and White took place on the 28th of December, 1818, before the U.S.
Circuit Court, in session at Boston, Justice Story presiding. They were defended by able counsel,
but convicted on circumstantial evidence, corroborated by the direct testimony of Samberson
and Onion. It appeared on the trial that the mild and amiable-looking Petersen was one of the
most forward and active of the mutineers. It was he who gave the signal for action by crying
"Sail, ho!" and he subsequently assisted in throwing overboard the mate and murdering the captain.

The execution of these pirates was appointed for the 21st of January, 1819, but on the ground
that the time between the sentence and execution, twenty-four days, was too short to allow
the criminals to make their peace with God, a respite was granted until the 18th of February.
On that day they were placed in a wagon, and a procession was formed of an imposing character,
which, after passing through Court Street, State Street, India Street, and Milk Street to the
Main street, now Washington street, proceeded to "the town land on boston Neck," where the
execution took place in presence of twenty thousand people.

These men died a terrible death, in a strange land, far from their homes and kindred. Although
such number witnessed the execution, few sympathized with them in their sufferings, for all
acknowledged that their sentence was just. Their execution, doubtless, acted as an impressive
warning to others, and restrained desperate ruffians from the commission of desperate deeds.

In all ages, crimes of a dark dye when committed on the ocean, have been regarded as exhibiting
a more depraved character in the criminal than crimes of a similar description committed on
the land. At sea there are no constables or police officers, no magistrates or good citizens
ready and willing to aid in preserving the peace of society, protecting life and property when
endangered, and in arresting a rogue or murderer. For this reason laws relating to mutiny,
piracy, and murder on the seas are punishable with death. In many atrocious cases it is difficult,
perhaps impossible, to obtain proof sufficient to convict the offender; but whenever a violator
of those laws, whether a principal or accessory, is arrested, tried, and convicted, THE PUNISHMENT
SHOULD BE SURE TO FOLLOW. The certainty of punishment is a mighty preventive to crime. The
impulses of that false philanthropy which seems to flourish in the present age, can never be
more injuriously indulged than by persevering and unscrupulous efforts to influence the press
and rouse public opinion in favor of setting aside the verdict of a jury, and snatching a red-handed
murderer on the high seas from the gallows.

Nothing particularly remarkable occurred during our passage home. It was in the season of the
year when severe gales are met with on the Atlantic, but the brig Joseph proved a good sea
boat, tight as a drum, and could lie to or scud without danger of being overwhelmed by the
combing waves. On this passage a little incident occurred off the Orkney Islands, that will
convey some idea of the dangers to which those are subjected whose home is on the ocean.

We were lying to in a gale. The wind blew fiercely in flaws, and there was a high and turbulent
sea running. The brig was at times uneasy, and in the pauses of the gale rolled heavily to
windward as well as to leeward. Orders were given to send down the fore-top-gallant mast. I
hastened with alacrity aloft for that purpose, and had reached the cross-trees, when in a lull
of the tempest, the brig, lying in the trough of the sea, lurched fearfully to windward. I
grasped firmly one of the top-gallant shrouds above the cross-trees, but the rope being old
and decayed, parted in the horn of the cross-trees BENEATH MY HANDS.

I clung, with a desperate grasp, to the rope, but was thrown out with a jerk in an angle of
forty-five degrees with the horizon, and when the brig suddenly righted I attained for a few
seconds a horizontal position, and to an observer on deck must have looked not unlike a spread
eagle burgee at half-mast. If I had relinquished my grasp at that moment I should have been
thrown into the sea some thirty feet from the vessel's side, and a full period would have been
put to the adventures of Hawser Martingale. But, notwithstanding the muscles of my arms were
severely wrenched, I was fortunately able to retain my grasp. The next moment the action of
gravitation, together with the roll to leeward, threw me back with terrific force against the
topmast rigging, which I eagerly seized, and then rejoicing at my lucky escape from a great
danger, and regardless of the bruises I had received, I went on with my work.

On the passage homeward I often indulged in reflections in regard to my future position in
life; and while walking the deck at night loved to let my fancy roam and picture castles in
the air, which, I fondly hoped, might at some future day be actually constructed. My highest
ambition was to gain, as rapidly as possible, a thorough knowledge of my business, procure
the command of a good ship, and by my own labors, acquire a competence before age should weaken
the faculties or diminish a relish for society; and then, residing in my own house with a small
piece of land attached which I could cultivate with my own hands, and within a few miles of
the metropolis of New England, surrounded by a pleasant neighborhood, and enjoying domestic
happiness in all its purity, gently sail down the stream of life.

This was not an extravagant dream. Yet the chances were at times terribly against its fulfilment.
But I never despaired, and fully believed that if Providence should grant me life and continued
health, THE CASTLE WOULD BE BUILT. In the darkest hours I kept a bright lookout ahead, far
ahead for the cheerful and safe harbor which imagination had so often portrayed. And the dream
has been realized almost precisely as it appeared to me in my youthful days; and I have enjoyed
for many years, in the retirement which my fancy painted, as much happiness as usually falls
to the lot of man in this checkered life, with a strong hope,

     "When the brief voyage in safety is o'er,
     To meet with loved friends on the far distant shore."

About forty days after leaving Gottenburg we reached the Grand Bank of Newfoundland, and crossed
it in latitude of forty-four degrees. We fell in with many fishing vessels riding at anchor
in thirty fathoms of water, the hardy crews of which, rigged out in their "boots and barvels,"
were busily engaged in their useful but arduous occupation. When on the centre of the bank,
the fog which had previously obscured objects at a distance, was suddenly swept away, and we
counted from the deck seventy-four schooners at anchor, besides several which were under sail.

The Bank of Newfoundland is of enormous extent, reaching some two hundred and fifty miles into
the Atlantic, from the southern part of Newfoundland and islands in that vicinity. Its southern
extremity is in about forty-two degrees of latitude, and fifty degrees west longitude from
Greenwich. The depth of water varies from twenty-five to fifty fathoms. The Bank is in the
direct track of vessels bound to and from Europe, and many sad disasters have occurred to the
fishermen, while lying at anchor in rough weather in a dense fog. In some instances they have
been run down, crushed to fragments, by large ships under full sail, and every one of the crew
has perished.

The fish on this Bank are chiefly cod, and have been taken in incredible numbers by the crews
of vessels built and fitted out for this purpose, for more than two hundred years; and in times
past this fishery has proved a certain source of income, and sometimes of wealth, to bold and
enterprising men. But for a number of years this business has not been so profitable as formerly,
and not so many vessels have been employed. It has been intimated by evil-disposed persons
that the capital stock of the Bank is getting reduced, and that it will ere long fail to make
discounts or pay dividends. But such rumors are the offspring of calumny; the Bank is undoubtedly
sound, has a solid bottom, and its treasures and resources are inexhaustible.

The fishermen of the Grand Bank, in "days lang syne," belonged chiefly to Marblehead and Cape
Ann. They were a bold, hardy, sinewy set of men, inured to fatigue and reckless of danger,
cheerful in their dispositions, impatient under restraint, fond of what they considered good
living, ready with a joke or yarn on all occasions, and not a little inclined to superstition.
Indeed the fishing vessels on the Bank, if we are to credit the tales told years ago, were
often favored by the presence of death warnings, mysterious noises, ghosts, and apparitions.
Sounds were heard and sights seen on board fishing vessels on the Bank, which filled the stoutest
hearts with fear and wonder, and would even astonish the most inveterate spiritualist of the
present day.

On shore the fishermen were a jolly set of fellows, social in their dispositions, not given
to vicious indulgences, but somewhat careless of their earnings, regarding their resources
as inexhaustible as "the fish in the sea." They married early, made kind and affectionate husbands,
and were, in almost every case, blessed with a numerous offspring; indeed, Marblehead fishermen
of sixty years of age would remind a person of the Bible patriarchs for the number of their
descendants. Their wives, fresh, blooming, spirited, and good-humored, were grandmothers at
six and thirty, great grandmothers at fifty-four, and great great grandmothers at the age of
seventy-four!

The fishermen were patriotic, too. They were dear lovers of their country and its institutions,
and prided themselves on their attachment to democracy. In the war of the revolution the citizens
of Marblehead and Gloucester, and Cape Cod, no longer able to pursue their accustomed vocations,
joined the armies which fought for freedom, and rendered important services on the land as
well as on the ocean. In the latest, and, we trust, THE LAST, war with Great Britain, they
came forward almost to a man, to assist in manning our frigates and privateers; and no class
of men rendered better services, or could be more confidently relied on when deeds of daring
were to be performed, than the whole-hearted and hard-handed fishermen of Massachusetts Bay.

As a nursery for seamen for our merchant ships in time of peace, the fishing business has proved
of immense advantage to the country, and that policy may justly be regarded as suicidal on
the part of the national government which would throw barriers in the way of its success.

To those who are familiar with the extent and geographical position of the Grand Bank of Newfoundland,
it may seem surprising, perhaps incredible, that fishing vessels have been known to seek for
it, day after day, in vain. Yet that such occurrences have taken place in "olden times" is
an established fact. But to the honor of our fishermen it may be said that such blunders in
plain navigation have been exceedingly rare, and as much owing to a free circulation of the
fiery liquid, which addles men's brains, as to sheer ignorance.

Many years ago a schooner sailed from Gloucester bound to the Grand Bank, in charge of a thick
dunderhead of a skipper, and a crew of about equal mental calibre. In putting up the stores
the grog was not forgotten. Indeed it was regarded as a necessary on shipboard, as a shrewd
counsellor in difficulty and danger, a friendly consoler when borne down by misfortune, and
a cheerful companion in prosperity, which could not be too often embraced.

The schooner met with head winds before she reached the meridian of Cape Sable, and was beating
about for several days between Cape Sable and St. George's Bank. At length the wind hauled
to the southward, and the skipper put the schooner's head to the north-east, and let her run,
making a fair wind of it. On the following day, towards night, he got soundings in twenty fathoms.
"Hallo!" shouted the skipper, "what a lucky fellow I am; I have hit the broadest and shoalest
part of the Bank the first time of trying! I verily believe I could hit a nun buoy if it was
anchored in any part of the ocean. But never mind, boys, let us freshen the nip; we'll stand
well on to the Bank, then let go the kellock, and haul up the cod!"

He stood on for a couple of hours, when greatly to his mortification and amazement, he found
his schooner floundering and thumping on a sand bank. She soon knocked a hole in her bottom,
and the crew with great difficulty made their escape to land, which was not far off. Even then
the skipper was disposed to believe ha had found an island on the Bank which had never before
been discovered; and it was hard work to convince him that he was cast away on the Isle of Sable!

Another case is said to have occurred of clumsy navigation on the part of one of our Marblehead
skippers. The tale is traditionary, but no less authentic on that account.

The fishing schooner Codhook was ready for a trip to the Grand Bank for a cargo of the deposits,
when the skipper, a faithful, skilful, hardy old fisherman, as is the case with most of this
valuable class of men, was taken sick, and compelled reluctantly to relinquish the voyage.
It became necessary to find a skipper, and as it was a busy season, it was not an easy matter
to procure the right kind of a man. After a time, however, it was concluded that nothing better
could be done than to appoint old Jonas Hardhead skipper for this single trip.

Jonas, or "Uncle Jonas," as he was familiarly called, had been to sea during the greater part
of his life, but for the last few years had been engaged occasionally in the fishing business;
and when he could be kept sober he was a valuable fisherman, for few could endure more hardship,
or haul up the cod faster than Uncle Jonas. He also boasted of his skill in navigation, and
according to his own story could handle a quadrant or even a sextant as adroitly as a marlinspike.
It was finally settled that he should act as skipper on this voyage, provided he would promise
to keep sober. Jonas gave the pledge with alacrity, although his feelings seemed hurt that
his sobriety was doubted; he even declared that he was never otherwise than sober in his life;
and was forthwith inducted into office.

In order to aid him in keeping his promise to the owners, Uncle Jonas took with him on board
some ten or a dozen bottles of "old Jamaica," a beverage which he dearly loved; and although
he seldom got absolutely drunk when on shore, it was rarely the case that he went to bed sober.
He had no doubt of his qualifications to perform well his duty as skipper, and was determined
to have a jovial time at all events.

He had a quadrant and a Bowditch's Navigator, as well as a chart of the Atlantic Ocean and
of the American coast. But all this machinery was of little use to Uncle Jonas. Indeed he secretly
despised book-learning, regarding it as a humbug, and relied upon his experience and judgment
in navigating his vessel. He was aware that by steering a course east, or east half south,
and running in that direction for several days, he would strike the broadside of the Grand
Bank, which he expected to know by the color of the water, the soundings, the many birds, and
the fishing vessels at anchor. He also supposed that when he returned with a glorious fare,
a westerly course would fetch some part of the coast, when he should certainly fall in with
vessels, and easily ascertain the where-away of Boston Bay, with all of which coast he was
familiar.

The schooner Codhook left the wharf with a roaring north-wester, and in order to secure a lucky
cruise Uncle Jonas treated himself and his companions, a jolly set of fellows also, with a
stiff glass of grog. He afterwards drank to a fair wind, to a continuance of the breeze, and
repeated this operation so often, that what little knowledge and judgment he could boast of
when he left the wharf, insensibly oozed away; and for nearly a week his mental faculties were
a great deal below par. In the meantime the wind blew a fresh breeze from the westward without
intermission, and the old schooner rolled and wallowed along with nearly all sail set, at a
tremendous rate, and actually crossed the Bank on the fifth day after leaving port. But the
weather was foggy, and the eyes of the skipper were dim. No change was observed in the water,
no birds or fishing vessels were seen.

Onward the schooner went, with all sail spread to the wind, like a new Flying Dutchman, until
the seventh day after leaving port, when the wind began to abate a little and haul to the southward.
The horizon was now clear, and Uncle Jonas began to look out for vessels, and expressed a decided
opinion that he was nearly up with the Bank. The sun went down and no fishing vessels were
seen under sail or at anchor. He was confident they would be visible on the following day,
and in order that his vision might be clearer, he swallowed a strong potation before he turned in.

On the next morning not a vessel of any description was in sight, and the skipper, confident
that the Bank could not be far off, concluded to sound. The deep-sea lead was thrown, but he
got no bottom with ninety fathoms of line. "Wheugh!" exclaimed Uncle Jonas, "what has become
of the Bank?"

The wind now blew merrily from the south-west, and merrily sailed the schooner; Uncle Jonas
keeping a sharp look-out for fishing vessels, and sounding every six hours. Ten days passed
away, and he began to be alarmed, and expressed fears that the Bank had failed, refused payments,
sunk, or cleared out! He continued, however, to consult his Jamaica friend, and sought its
advice and assistance in his perplexity. It is singular that in times of difficulty and danger,
when a clear head is particularly necessary, men who have charge of property, and the lives
of their fellow-men, are prone to consult the rum bottle, which always produces an effect precisely
the reverse of what is desired.

At length, on the twelfth day of the passage, Uncle Jonas, whose patience was nearly exhausted,
saw a large number of gannets and gulls; the water was remarkably chilly, and seemed to have
a tinge of green. "Aha," said the skipper, "I have got you at last." But he could not see any
fishing vessels, or obtain bottom with ninety fathoms of line.

On the following morning, however, much to his gratification, he obtained soundings in sixty
fathoms of water. "There," exclaimed the skipper triumphantly to his men, "you more than insinuated
that I was no navigator, but I have carried the ship straight to the Grand Bank in fine style.
We will stand on until we get thirty fathoms of water, and then go to work like men."

His companions acknowledged their error, asked pardon for doubting his infallibility, and promised
never again to question his ability to navigate a vessel to any part of the globe.

But, much to the surprise and disappointment of Uncle Jonas, the water did not shoal, but rather
deepened as he kept along to the eastward. He again became bewildered, and could hardly help
admitting that there might be some mistake in the matter, as he never found such deep water
on the Bank before. He repeatedly swept the horizon with his glass, hoping to conjure up some
vessel, and procure definite information in regard to his whereabouts. In the afternoon he
saw a ship approaching from the eastward, and his heart was gladdened at the sight. He hauled
the schooner on a wind, hoisted his colors, and prepared to speak the ship. She proved to be
the packet ship James Monroe, Captain Wilkinson, bound from Liverpool to New York. Uncle Jonas
eagerly inquired of the captain of the ship if he had fallen in with any fishing vessels on
his passage.

"Ay, ay," was the reply; "I saw a number of them in the Irish Channel."

"Irish Channel!" echoed the skipper, with a howl of agony. "Why, where are we, my good fellow;
do tell us where we are."

"We are about thirty-five miles south-south-east of Cape Clear, and on the Nymph Bank!"

Uncle Jonas dashed his trumpet to the deck, and sprang perpendicularly four feet by actual
measurement so true, it is, that astonishment prompts a man instinctively to extraordinary
gymnastic exercises!

The skipper was in an awkward dilemma. He had gone across the Atlantic, with a fair and fresh
breeze, safely and expeditiously enough; but he cherished strong doubts whether his skill in
navigation would suffice to carry him back. He explained the case candidly to Captain Wilkinson,
who, after a hearty laugh at the expense of Uncle Jonas, consented to furnish him with a navigator.
He accordingly put a young man on board the schooner who was a proficient in the art of navigation
an art with which the commander of a vessel on the ocean should be somewhat familiar.

As a preliminary step, the new captain caused the remainder of the "Jamaica" to be thrown overboard,
and every thing else which was akin to it. Uncle Jonas begged hard to retain it as a solace
under trouble; but he was overruled by the new navigator, and also the crew, all of whom felt
mortified at the result of the trip thus far, and overboard it went. The head of the schooner
was got round to the westward, her sails were trimmed to the breeze, and the schooner jogged
along quietly in the wake of the ship until the latter was out of sight.

In due time, that is, in about thirty-five days after having spoken the ship James Monroe,
for the wind was westerly nearly the whole time, the schooner Codhook reached the Grand Bank.
Neither the navigator nor the crew would consent to remain there any great length of time indeed,
for various reasons, all were anxious to return to Marblehead. In about a fortnight afterwards
they reached the port from which they started, after an absence of about two months, having
had a glorious cruise, but bringing home a slender fare.

Uncle Jonas was laughed at until the day of his death; but he always warded off the ridicule
by declaring that no fishing schooner had ever before reached Cape Clear from Massachusetts
Bay in fourteen days from leaving port!

We crossed the Grand Bank in the brig Joseph, and proceeded on our way towards Cape Cod. But
meeting with south-west winds after passing the Isle of Sable, we were forced to the northward
on the coast of Nova Scotia. Here we were enveloped in fogs of a density which seemed appalling.
Unable to obtain a meridian observation of the sun, and swept about by unknown currents, we
were uncertain of our latitude, and more than once came near wrecking the brig on that dangerous
iron-bound shore.

After beating to windward a few days, the wind hauled us to the southward and eastward, the
fog towards noon, to a very considerable extent, dispersed, and Captain Allen obtained a meridian
altitude of the sun, the horizon being as he erroneously thought, well defined. Having thus
determined the latitude to his satisfaction, he ordered the brig to be steered about west-south-west,
which, he supposed, would carry us round Cape Sable, clear of all danger.

This cape is well known as the southern extremity of Nova Scotia, a dangerous point, on which,
notwithstanding the lighthouse on its extremity, many vessels have been wrecked, and a countless
number of lives have been lost. The fog again gathered around the brig soon after the sun had
passed the meridian, and became so dense that for several hour it was impossible to perceive
any object, even at the distance of twenty yards from the vessel. But Captain Allen, confident
in the correctness of his latitude by observation, manifested no anxiety, and kept the brig
on her course, without ordering any particular lookout, which, indeed, would hardly have been
of use, or using the lead.

There was a steady breeze, and the brig was going through the water at the rate of six or seven
knots, when, just as the shades of evening began to fall, the thick curtain, which had hitherto
surrounded us on every side, was suddenly lifted. The fog vanished as if at the will of an
enchanter; and, to the consternation of Captain Allen and every person on board, we discovered
craggy ledges of rock rising out of the water directly ahead and on either side, and not a
quarter of a mile off!

We were running directly on Cape Sable. It was a narrow escape. The brig was immediately put
round on the other tack, and we clawed off from the land with all possible speed, shuddering
at the idea of the dangers which in the fog-darkness had surrounded us, and truly grateful
for our preservation.

