ANAHUAC

or, Mexico and the Mexicans, Ancient and Modern

by

EDWARD B. TYLOR

1861

INTRODUCTION.

The journey and excursions in Mexico which have originated the narrative and remarks contained
in this volume were made in the months of March, April, May, and June of 1856, for the most
part on horseback. The author and his fellow-traveller enjoyed many advantageous opportunities
of studying the country, the people, and the antiquities of Mexico, owing to the friendly assistance
and hospitality which they received there. With this aid they were enabled to accomplish much
more than usually falls to the lot of travellers in so limited a period; and they had the great
advantage too, of being able to substantiate or correct their own observations by the local
knowledge and experience of their friends and entertainers.

Visiting Mexico during a lull in the civil turmoil of that lamentably disturbed Republic, they
were fortunate in being able to avail themselves of that peaceable season in making excursions
to remarkable places and ruins, and examining the national collection of antiquities, and other
objects of interest,--an opportunity that cannot have occurred since owing to the recommencement
of civil war in its worst form.

The following are some of the chief points of interest in these Notes on Mexico, which are
either new or treated more fully than hitherto:

     1.   The evidence of an immense ancient population,
          shewn by the abundance of remains of works of art
          (treated of at pages 146-150), is fully stated
          here.

     2.   The notices and drawings of Obsidian knives and
          weapons (at page 95, &c., and in the Appendix) are
          more ample than any previously given.

     3.   The treatment of the Mexican Numerals (at page 108)
          is partly new.

     4.   The proofs of the highly probable sophistication of
          the document in the Library at Paris, relative to
          Mexican eclipses, have not previously been advanced
          (see Appendix).

     5.   The notices of objects of Mexican art, &c., in the
          chapter on Antiquities, and elsewhere (including
          the Appendix), are for the most part new to the
          public.

     6.   The remarks on the connection between pure Mexican
          art and that of Central America, in the chapter on
          Xochicalco, are in great part new.

     7.   The singular native bridge at Tezcuco (page 153) is
          another novelty.

The order in which places and things were visited is shewn in the annexed Itinerary, or sketch
of the journeys and excursions described.

ITINERARY:

Journey 1.     Cuba. Havana. Batabano. Isles of Pines.
               Nueva Gerona. Baños de Santa Fé. Back to
               Havana. Pages 1-14.

Journey 2.     Havana. Sisal. Vera Cruz. Pages 15-18.

Journey 3.     Vera Cruz. Cordova. Orizaba. Huamantla.
               Otumba. Guadalupe. Mexico. Pages 18-38.

Journey 4.     Mexico to Tacubaya and Chapultepec, and
               back. Pages 55-58.

Journey 5.     Mexico to Santa Anita and back. Pages
               59-65.

Journey 6.     Mexico. Guadalupe. Pachuca. Real del
               Monte. Regla. Atotonilco el Grande.
               Soquital and back to Real del Monte. Real
               del Monte to Mount Jacal and Cerro de
               Navajas (obsidian-pits), and back to Real
               del Monte. Pachuca. Guadalupe. Mexico.
               Pages 72-105.

Journey 7.     Mexico to Tisapán. Ravine of Magdalena.
               Pedrigal (lava-field), and back. Pages
               118-120.

Journey 8.     Mexico to Tezcuco. Pages 129--162.
               Tezcuco to Pyramids of Teotihuacán and
               back. Pages 136--146. Tezcuco to
               Tezcotzinco (the so-called "Montezuma's
               Bath," &c.). Aztec Bridge, and back to
               Tezcuco. Pages 152-153. Tezcuco to
               Bosque del Contador (the grove of
               ahuehuetes, where excavations were made.)
               Pages 154-156. Tezcuco to Mexico.
               Page 62.

Journey 9.     Mexico. San Juan de Dios. La Guarda.
               Cuernavaca. Temisco. Xochicalco.
               Miacatlán. Cocoytla. Pages 172-195.
               Cocoytla to village and cave of
               Cacahuamilpán and back. Pages 196-205.
               Cocoytla to Chalma. Oculán. El Desierto.
               Tenancingo. Toluca. Lerma. Las Cruzes.
               Mexico. Pages 214-220.

Journey 10.    Mexico to Tezcuco. Miraflores. Amecameca.
               Popocatepetl. San Nicolas de los Ranchos.
               Cholula. Puebla. Amozoque. Nopaluca. San
               Antonio de abajo. Orizaba. Amatlán. El
               Potrero. Cordova. San Andrés.
               Chalchicomula. La Junta. Jalapa. Vera
               Cruz. West Indies and Home. Pages 260-
               327.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

     Cuba. Volantes. A Cuban Railway. Voyage. Passports. Isle of
     Pines. Mosquitos. Pirates. Runaway slaves. Baths of Santa Fé.
     Alligators. The Cura. Missionary Priest. Florida Colonists.
     Blacks in the West Indies. Chinese and African slaves.

CHAPTER II.

     Players and Political Adventurers. Voyage. Yucatan.
     Slave-trade in Natives. The Ten Tribes. Vera Cruz. Don
     Ignacio Comonfort. Mexican Politics. Casualties. The City of
     the Dead. Turkey-buzzards. Northers. The "temperate region."
     Cordova. The Chipi-chipi. The "cold region." Mirage.
     Sand-pillars. The rainy season. Plundered passengers.
     Robber-priest. Aztec remains. Aloe-fields. Houses of
     mud-bricks. Huts of aloes. Mexican churches. Mexican roads.
     Making pulque.

CHAPTER III.

     Palace-hotel of Yturbide. Site and building of Mexico.
     Changes in the Valley of Mexico. Dearth of Trees.
     Architecture. Drunkenness. Fights. Rattles. Judas's Bones.
     Burning Judas. Churches in Holy Week. Streets. Barricades.
     People. Women. The cypress of Chapultepec. Old-fashioned
     coaches. The canal of Chalco. Canoe-travelling. "Reasonable
     people." Taste for flowers. The "Floating Gardens."
     Promenade. Flooded streets. Earthquakes.

CHAPTER IV.

     Tacubaya. Humming-birds and butterflies. Aztec feather-work.
     Bullfight. Lazoing and colearing. English in Mexico. Hedge of
     organ-cactus. Pachuca. Cold in the hills. Rapid evaporation.
     Mountain-roads. Real del Monte. Guns and pistols. Regla. The
     father-confessor in Mexico. Morals of servitude. Cornish
     miners. Dram-drinking. Salt-trade. The Indian market. Indian
     Conservatism. Sardines. Account-keeping. The great Barranca.
     Tropical fruits. Prickly pears. Their use. The
     "Water-Throat." Silver-works. Volcano of Jorullo. Cascade of
     Regla. "Eyes of Water." Fires. The Hill of Knives. Obsidian
     implements. Obsidian mines. The Stone-age. The
     loadstone-mountain of Mexico. Unequal Civilization of the
     Aztecs. Silver and commerce of Mexico. Effect of
     Protection-duties. Silver mines. The Aztec numerals.

CHAPTER V.

     A Revolution. Siege and Capitulation of Puebla. Military
     Statistics. Highway-robbery. Reform in Mexico. The American
     war. Mexican army. Our Lady of Guadalupe. Miracles. The rival
     Virgins. Sacred lottery-ticket. Literature in Mexico. The
     clergy and their system of Education in Mexico. The Holy
     Office. Indian Notions of Christianity.

CHAPTER VI.

     To Tezcuco. Indian Canoes. Sewer-canal. Water-snakes.
     Salt-lakes. A storm on the lake. Glass-works. Casa Grande.
     Quarries. Stone Hammers. Use of Bronze in stone-cutting in
     Mexico and Egypt. Prickly Pears. Temple-pyramids of
     Teotihuacán. Sacrifice of Spaniards. Old Mexico. Market of
     Antiquities. Police. Bull-dogs. Accumulation of Alluvium.
     Tezcotzinco. Ancient baths and bridge. Salt and salt-pans.
     Fried flies'-eggs. Water-pipes. Irrigation. Agriculture in
     Mexico. History repeats itself.

CHAPTER VII.

     Horses and their training. Saddles and bits. The Courier.
     Leather clothes. The Serape. The Rag-fair of Mexico, Thieves.
     Gourd water-bottles. Ploughing. Travelling by Diligence.
     Indian carriers. Mules. Breakfast. Bragadoccio. Robbers.
     Escort. Cuernavaca. Tropical Vegetation. Sugar-cane. Temisco.
     Sugar-hacienda. Indian labourers. The evensong. The Raya.
     Strength of the Indians. Xochicalco. Ruins of the Pyramid.
     Sculptures. Common ornaments. The people of Mexico and
     Central America. Their civilization. Pear-shaped heads.
     Miacatlán.

CHAPTER VIII.

     Cocoyotla. Indian labourers. Political Condition of the
     Indians. Indian Village and huts. Cotton-spinning. The Indian
     Alcalde. Great Cave of Cacahuamilpán. Optical phenomenon.
     Monk on horseback. Religion of the Indians. Idols. Baptism by
     wholesale. Village amusements. Dancing. Chalma. The meson and
     the convent. Church-dances. The miller's daughter. Young
     friar. The Hill of Drums. Sacred cypress-tree. Oculan. Change
     of climate. Grain-districts of Mexico. The Desierto.
     Tenancingo. Toluca. Lerma. Robbers.

CHAPTER IX.

     Museum. Fate of Antiquities. War-God. Sacrificial Stone.
     Mexican words naturalized in Europe, &c. Chamber of Horrors.
     Aztec Art. Wooden Drums. Aztec Picture-writings. The
     "Man-flaying" Mr. Uhde's Collection. Mr. Christy's
     Collection. Bones of Giants. Cortes' Armour. Mexican
     Calendar-stone. Aztec Astronomy. Mongol Calendar.
     Peculiarities of Aztec Civilization. The Prison at Mexico. No
     "Criminal class." Prison-discipline. The Garotte. Mexican
     law-courts. Statistics. The Compadrazgo. Leperos and Lepers.
     Lazoing the bull. Cockfighting. Gambling. Monte. The
     fortunate Miners.

CHAPTER X.

     A travelling companion. Mexicans who live by their wits.
     Jackal-masks, &c. Mexican words used in the United States.
     Miraflores. Cotton-factory. Sacred Mount and Cypress-tree.
     Rainy Season. Ascent of Popocatepetl. The Crater. View of
     Anahuac. Descent from Popocatepetl. Plain of Puebla.
     Snow-blindness. Hospitable Shopkeeper. Morality of Smuggling.
     Pyramid and Antiquities of Cholula. Hybrid Legends of Mexico.
     Genuine Legends. Old-world analogies among the Aztecs.

CHAPTER XI.

     Puebla. The Pasadizos. Revolutions in Mexico. Festival of
     Corpus Christi. Mexican clergy. Their incomes and morals.
     Scourging. Religion of the People. Anomalous constitution of
     the Republic. The horse-bath. Debt-slaves or peons. Great
     fortunes in Mexico. Amozoque. Spurs. Nopalucán. Orizaba.
     Robbers. Locusts. Indian village. Inroads of Civilization.
     Lawsuits. Native Aristocracy. The vapour-bath. Scanty
     population. Its explanation. Unhealthy habits. Epidemics.
     Intemperance. Pineapples. Potrero. Negros. Mixed races.
     "Painted men."

CHAPTER XII.

     Barrancas. Indian trotting. Flowers. Armadillo. Fire-flies.
     Singular Fandango. Epiphytes. The Junta. Indian Life.
     Decorative Art. Horses. Jalapa. Anglo-Mexicans. Insect-life.
     Monte. Fate of Antonio. Scorpion. White Negress. Cattle.
     Artificial lighting. Vera Cruz. Further Journey. St.
     Thomas's. Voyage to England. Future destinies of Mexico.

APPENDIX.

  I. The Manufacture of Obsidian Knives.
 II. On the Solar Eclipses recorded in the Le Tellier MS.
III. Table of Aztec roots.
 IV. Glossary.
  V. Ancient Mexican mosaic work (in Mr. Christy's Collection).
 VI. Dasent's Essay on the Ethnographical value of Popular Tales and
       Legends.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS:

PLATES:

  Cascade of Regla. From a photograph by J. Bell, Esq. (To face
    title-page.)

  Porter and Baker in Mexico.

  Indians bringing Country Produce to Market.

  Indians in a Rancho, making and baking Tortillas.

  Map to illustrate Messrs. Tylor and Christy's journeys and excursions
    In Mexico.

WOODCUTS:

  (The cuts of smaller objects of antiquity, and articles at present
   in use, have been drawn from specimens in the Collection of Henry
   Christy, Esq.)

  Indian Tlachiquero, collecting juice of the Agave for Pulque.

  View of Part of the Valley of Mexico.

  Water-carrier and Mexican Woman at the Fountain.

  Group of Mexican Ecclesiastics.

  Stone Spear-heads, and Obsidian Knives and Arrow-heads, from Mexico.

  Fluted Prism of Obsidian, and Knife-flakes.

  Mexican Arrow-heads of Obsidian.

  Aztec Stone-knife, with wooden handle, inlaid with mosaic work.

  Aztec Head in Terra-cotta.

  The Rebozo and the Serape.

  Aztec Bridge near Tezcuco.

  Spanish-Mexican Saddle and appendages.

  Spanish-Mexican Bit, with ring and chain.

  Sculptured Panel, from Xochicalco. (After Nebel).

  Small Aztec Head in Terra-cotta.

  Ixtacalco Church.

  Spanish-Mexican Spurs.

  Goddess of War. (After Nebel).

  Three Views of a Sacrificial Collar or Clamp, carved out of hard
    stone.

  Two Views of a Mask, carved out of hard stone.

  Ancient Bronze Bells.

  Spanish-Mexican Cock-spurs.

  Leather Sandals.

  Mexican Costumes. (After Nebel).

  View of Orizaba.

  Indians of the Plateau. (After Nebel).

CHAPTER I.

THE ISLE OF PINES.

In the spring of 1856, I met with Mr. Christy accidentally in an omnibus at Havana. He had
been in Cuba for some months, leading an adventurous life, visiting sugar-plantations, copper-mines,
and coffee-estates, descending into caves, and botanizing in tropical jungles, cruising for
a fortnight in an open boat among the coral-reefs, hunting turtles and manatis, and visiting
all sorts of people from whom information was to be had, from foreign consuls and Lazarist
missionaries down to retired slave-dealers and assassins.

As for myself, I had been travelling for the best part of a year in the United States, and
had but a short time since left the live-oak forests and sugar-plantations of Louisiana. We
agreed to go to Mexico together; and the present notes are principally compiled from our memorandum-books,
and from letters written home on our journey.

Before we left Cuba, however, we made one last excursion across the island, and to the Isla
de Pinos--the Isle of Pines--off the southern coast. A volante took us to the railway-station.
The volante is the vehicle which the Cubans specially affect; it is like a Hansom cab, but
the wheels are much taller, six and a half feet high, and the black driver sits postillion-wise
upon the horse. Our man had a laced jacket, black leather leggings, and a pair of silver spurs
fastened upon his bare feet, which seemed at a little distance to have well polished boots
on, they were so black and shiny.

The railway which took us from Havana to Batabano had some striking peculiarities. For a part
of the way the track passed between two walls of tropical jungle. The Indian fig trees sent
down from every branch suckers, like smooth strings, which rooted themselves in the ground
to draw up more water. Acacias and mimosas, the seiba and the mahagua, with other hard-wood
trees innumerable, crowded close to one another; while epiphytes perched on every branch, and
creepers bound the whole forest into a compact mass of vegetation, through which no bird could
fly. We could catch the strings of convolvulus with our walking-sticks, as the train passed
through the jungle. Sometimes we came upon a swamp, where clusters of bamboos were growing,
crowned with tufts of pointed leaves; or had a glimpse for a moment of a group of royal palms
upon the rising ground.

We passed sugar-plantations with their wide cane-fields, the sugar-houses with tall chimneys,
and the balconied house of the administrador, keeping a sharp look out over the village of
negro-cabins, arranged in double lines.

In the houses near the stations where we stopped, cigar-making seemed to be the universal occupation.
Men, women, and children were sitting round tables hard at work. It made us laugh to see the
black men rolling up cigars upon the hollow of their thighs, which nature has fashioned into
a curve exactly suited to this process.

At Batabano the steamer was waiting at the pier, and our passports and ourselves were carefully
examined by the captain, for Cuba is the paradise of passport offices, and one cannot stir
without a visa. For once everybody was en règle, and we had no such scene as my companion had
witnessed a few days before.

If you are a married man resident in Cuba, you cannot get a passport to go to the next town
without your wife's permission in writing. Now it so happened that a respectable brazier, who
lived at Santiago de Cuba, wanted to go to Trinidad. His wife would not consent; so he either
got her signature by stratagem, or, what is more likely, gave somebody something to get him
a passport under false pretences.

At any rate he was safe on board the steamer, when a middle-aged female, well dressed, but
evidently arrayed in haste, and with a face crimson with hard running, came panting down to
the steamer, and rushed on board. Seizing upon the captain, she pointed out her husband, who
had taken refuge behind the other passengers at a respectful distance; she declared that she
had never consented to his going away, and demanded that his body should be instantly delivered
up to her. The husband was appealed to, but preferred staying where he was. The captain produced
the passport, perfectly en règle, and the lady made a rush at the document, which was torn
in half in the scuffle. All other means failing, she made a sudden dash at her husband, probably
intending to carry him off by main force. He ran for his life, and there was a steeplechase
round the deck, among benches, bales, and coils of rope; while the passengers and the crew
cheered first one and then the other, till they could not speak for laughing. The husband was
all but caught once; but a benevolent passenger kicked a camp-stool in the lady's way, and
he got a fresh start, which he utilized by climbing up the ladder to the paddle-box. His wife
tried to follow him, but the shouts of laughter which the black men raised at seeing her performances
were too much for her, and she came down again. Here the captain interposed, and put her ashore,
where she stood like black-eyed Susan till the vessel was far from the wharf, not waving her
lily hand, however, but shaking her clenched fist in the direction of the fugitive.

To return to our voyage to the Isle of Pines.--All the afternoon the steamer threaded her way
cautiously among the coral-reefs which rose almost to the surface. Sometimes there seemed scarcely
room to pass between them, and by night navigation would have been impossible. We were just
in the place where Columbus and his companions arrived on their expedition along the Cuban
coast, to find out what countries lay beyond. They sailed by day, and lay to at night, till
their patience was worn out. Another day or two of sailing would have brought them to where
the coast trends northwards; but they turned back, and Columbus died in the belief that Cuba
was the eastern extremity of the continent of Asia.

The Spaniards call these reefs "cayos," and we have altered the name to "keys," such as Key
West in Florida, and Ambergris Key off Belize.

It was after sunset, and the phosphorescent animals were making the sea glitter like molten
metal, when we reached the Isle of Pines, and steamed slowly up the river, among the mangroves
that fringe the banks, to the village of Nueva Gerona, the port of the island. It consisted
of two rows of houses thatched with palm-leaves, and surrounded by wide verandahs; and between
them a street of unmitigated mud.

As we walked through the place in the dusk, we could dimly discern the inhabitants sitting
in their thatched verandahs, in the thinnest of white dresses, gossipping, smoking, and love-making,
tinkling guitars, and singing seguidillas. It was quite a Spanish American scene out of a romance.
There was no romance about the mosquitos, however. The air was alive with them. When I was
new to Cuba, I used to go to bed in the European fashion; and as the beds were all six inches
too short, my feet used to find their way out in the night, and the mosquitos came down and
sat upon them. Experience taught us that it was better to lie down half-dressed, so that only
our faces and hands were exposed to their attacks.

The Isle of Pines used to be the favourite resort of the pirates of the Spanish main; indeed
there were no other inhabitants. The creeks and rivers being lined with the densest vegetation,
a few yards up the winding course of such a creek, they were lost in the forest, and a cruiser
might pass within a few yards of their lurking-place, and see no traces of them. Captain Kyd
often came here, and stories of his buried treasures are still told among the inhabitants.
Now the island serves a double purpose; it is a place of resort for the Cubans, who come to
rusticate and bathe, and it serves as a settlement for those free black inhabitants of Florida
who chose to leave that country when it was given up to the United States. One of these Floridanos
accompanied us as our guide next day to the Baños de Santa Fé.

When we left the village we passed near the mangrove trees, which were growing not only near
the water but in it, and like to spread their roots among the thick black slime which accumulates
so fast in this country of rapid vegetable growth, and as rapid decomposition. In Cuba, the
mangoe is the abomination of the planters, for they supply the runaway slaves with food, upon
which they have been known to subsist for months, whilst the mangroves give them shelter. A
little further inland we found the guava, a thick-spreading tree, with smooth green leaves.
From its fruit is made guava-jelly, but as yet it was not ripe enough to eat.

In the middle of the island we came upon marble-quarries. They are hardly worked now; but when
they were first established, a number of emancipados were employed there. What emancipados
are, it is worth while to explain. They are Africans taken from captured slavers, and are set
to work under government inspection for a limited number of years, on a footing something like
that of the apprentices in Jamaica, in the interregnum between slavery and emancipation. In
Cuba it is remarked that the mortality among the emancipados is frightful. They seldom outlive
their years of probation. The explanation of this piece of statistics is curious. The fact
is that every now and then, when an old man dies, they bury him as one of the emancipados,
whose register is sent in to the Government as dead; while the negro himself goes to work as
a slave in some out-of-the-way plantation where no tales are told.

