In general, all major transportation modes would be affected--highways, streets, overpasses
and bridges, mass transit systems, railroads, airports, pipelines, and ocean terminals, although
major variances in losses are expected among the modes. From a purely structural standpoint,
the more rigid or elevated systems (such as railroads and pipelines) which cross major faults
on an east-west axis would incur the heaviest damage, with initial losses approaching 100 percent.
Other major systems (such as highways, airports, and pile-supported piers at water terminals)
have better survivability characteristics and therefore would fare much better, with damage
generally in the moderate range of 15 to 30 percent. These transportation facility loss estimates
are stated in terms of immediate post-quake effects. They do not reflect the impact of priority
emergency recovery efforts and expedient alternatives that are available, some within hours,
to aid in restoration of transportation capacity. In addition, transportation systems generally
have an inherently significant degree of redundancy and flexibility. Consequently, an unquantified
but significant movement capability in all transport modes is expected to survive. Finally,
these loss estimates do not take into account the question of availability of essential supporting
resources, particularly petroleum fuels, electricity, and communications. In the initial response
phase, these could prove to be the most limiting factors in the capability of the transportation
system.

Business and industry would be affected by damage to office buildings, plants, and other support
facilities. Although the 1971 San Fernando earthquake occurred on the margin of a largely suburban
area, industrial facilities incurred significant damage. For example, several buildings of
the kind commonly used for light industry or warehouses suffered from collapsed roofs or walls.
Generally, building codes do not apply to special industrial facilities, and the ability of
these structures to resist earthquake shaking will depend largely on the foresight of the design
engineer. For example, a major electrical power switching yard and a water filtration plant
were seriously damaged in the 1971 San Fernando earthquake.

About 10 percent of the population and industrial resources of the Nation are located in California.
Over 85 percent of these resources (or about 8.5 percent of the Nation's total) are located
in the 21 California counties that are subject to the possibility of damage from a major earthquake.
Much of the aerospace and electronics industry is centered in California. For example, about
56 percent of the guided missiles and space vehicles, 40 percent of the semiconductors, 25
percent of the electronic computer equipment, and approximately 21 percent of the optical instruments
and lenses manufactured in the Nation are manufactured in these 21 counties. The probability
that all these counties would be affected by one earthquake is extremely remote; yet the significant
concentration of key industries remains a concern. For example, about 25 percent of the Nation's
semiconductors are manufactured in Santa Clara County, an area along the Northern San Andres
fault that suffered very heavy damage in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. Estimates of damage
to these industrial facilities and the resulting loss of production have not been made. Similarly,
the resulting impact of possible damage to national production has not been adequately analyzed.

Federally regulated financial institutions were generically analyzed to determine their ability
to continue to promote essential services in the event of a major earthquake like those that
have been postulated for this assessment. The conclusion reached thus far is that large-magnitude
earthquakes pose no significant or unanticipated problems of solvency and liquidity for such
institutions. The Federal Reserve System and other regulatory entities have procedures in place
that are designed--and have been tested--specifically to provide for the continued operation
of financial institutions immediately following an earthquake or other emergency. The potential
for disaster, however, does not occur suddenly. The degree of preparedness and commitment to
comprehensive planning and mitigation programs for the inevitable event will largely determine
the degree of hardship to be experienced through loss of life, human suffering, property destruction,
and the other related economic, social, and psychological aspects of disruption to day-to-day
community activities. The impacts can be reduced substantially from current expected levels
through the development and implementation of improved and more widely practiced earthquake
hazards reduction measures. These include coordinated emergency preparedness plans and procedures,
earthquake prediction and warning systems, improved construction techniques, and effective
public education and information programs.

The State of California Office of Emergency Services (OES) and FEMA conducted an analysis of
the readiness capability for potential catastrophic earthquakes in California at the Federal,
State, and local government levels. The planning of 22 counties and 38 cities, of 34 State
agencies, and of 17 Federal organizations were reviewed with the following objectives: (a)
identify opportunities for improvement; (b) provide a basis for making decisions that would
strengthen program direction and planning efforts; and (c) specify resource needs and potential
legislative initiatives. Annex 2 summarizes current Federal and California earthquake planning.

The environment in which preparedness planning in California occurs is characterized by the
following observations of public expectations and attitudes:

        » There is widespread public support for government
          action.

        » Most people have some ideas as to what government should
          be doing.

        » There is understanding of the need for hazard reduction
          as well as emergency response planning.

        » People are willing, in the abstract, to have government
          funds spent for hazard mitigation.

        » The public is not very satisfied with what government
          officials have done.

        » Public officials perceive that current preparedness
          plans and response are inadequate at best.

As discussed below, the review indicates that all is not well in earthquake plans and preparedness.
Current plans and preparedness are judged to be adequate for the "moderate" earthquakes most
likely to occur frequently in California. For a catastrophic earthquake, current plans and
preparedness are clearly inadequate, leading to a high likelihood that Federal, State, and
local response activities would become disorganized and largely fail to perform effectively
for an extended period of time.

B. STATE AND LOCAL RESPONSE

Although there are widely differing approaches, local emergency planning in California generally
consists of a basic plan and a series of contingency plans. The basic plan establishes the
authority, sets forth references, addresses hazard vulnerability, states the planning assumptions,
establishes an emergency services organization, assigns tasks, formulates a mutual aid system,
and directs the development of specific support annexes. For those hazards identified in the
basic plan, a separate contingency plan is then developed to address the unique nature of the
hazardous event. The contingency plan contains service support plans for each of the functional
operations, including detailed standard operating procedures. The planning efforts of local
jurisdictions are coordinated with adjacent jurisdictions and the California OES for consistency.

A plan is not considered complete without the support annexes which make the plan operational.
The survey undertaken for this assessment disclosed that approximately 93 percent of the jurisdictions
examined have existing, basic plans; 50 percent have completed annexes; 28 percent of the basic
plans addressed an earthquake hazard vulnerability; 35 percent have planned for earthquake
contingency; and only 1 percent (one city) has a plan to respond to an earthquake prediction.

At the State level, the California OES, as an integral part of the Governor's Office, functions
as his immediate staff and coordinating organization in carrying out the State's emergency
responsibilities. Specific emergency assignments have been made to 34 State agencies by the
OES Director through a series of Administrative Orders. During emergencies the activities of
these agencies and departments are coordinated by the California OES.

The State OES is also responsible for maintaining and updating the California Emergency Plan
(CEP) and associated readiness plans. As in the case of local plans, the basic document is
supported by operational annexes as listed below:

    CONTINGENCY                       MUTUAL AID

    Earthquake                        Fire and Rescue
    Earthquake Prediction             Law Enforcement
    Oil Spill                         Medical
    Nuclear Blackmail                 Utilities
    Reactor Accident                  Military Support
    Radioactive Material Incident
    Flood

    SUPPORTING SYSTEMS                EMERGENCY RESOURCES
                                      MANAGEMENT

    Warning                           Construction and Housing
    Emergency Broadcast System        Economic Stabilization
    Emergency Public Information      Food
    Intelligence Operations           Health
    Radiological Defense              Industrial Production
                                      Manpower
                                      Petroleum
                                      Telecommunications
                                      Transportation
                                      Utilities

Based on this planning concept, the review assessed quantitatively the preparedness activities
of the 34 State agencies that have preparedness responsibilities in accordance with the CEP.
The quantitative data are listed in the following table.

TABLE 4

QUANTITATIVE ASSESSMENT OF STATE PREPAREDNESS ACTIVITIES

-----------------------------------------------------------------
                                     Number of   Percent of
  Preparedness Element               Agencies    34 Agencies
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Existence of Plan                       22            65
Conduct of Exercises                    27            79
Public Education Activities             10            29
Public Information Activities            9            26
Operational Capability                  32            94
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The quality of the plans, activities, and operational capabilities were then evaluated on a
scale of 1 (expected to fail/inadequate) to 5 (expected to succeed well/adequate). The qualitative
results are shown below.

TABLE 5

QUALITATIVE ASSESSMENT OF STATE PREPAREDNESS ACTIVITIES

----------------------------------------------------------
  Preparedness Element        Capability Rating
----------------------------------------------------------
  Planning                           2.67
  Exercises                          2.64
  Public Education                   1.44
  Public Information                 1.50
  Operational Capability             2.91
----------------------------------------------------------

It should be emphasized that these ratings apply to the State's present level of planning and
preparedness for response to a major destructive earthquake (magnitude 8), not a moderate (San
Fernando-type) event.

C. FEDERAL RESPONSE

At the Federal level the principal capability to respond to a catastrophic earthquake in California
resides in FEMA, the agency responsible by law to coordinate Federal activities in all emergencies.
FEMA has developed a basic plan for supplemental Federal assistance for a major earthquake
in the San Francisco Bay area. This plan, however, covers only the emergency phase of response
(first few days of efforts to save lives and protect property). In addition, FEMA is participating
in a broader effort concentrating in Southern California. This cooperative effort is getting
under way with State and local governments, other Federal departments, voluntary agencies,
practicing professions, business and commercial interests, labor, educators, and researchers.
It is expected to develop an effective program to respond to an earthquake or a credible earthquake
prediction in that part of the State. The emphasis is being placed on public safety, reduction
of property damage, self-help on the part of individuals, socioeconomic impacts, improved response
and long-range recovery planning, mitigation activities, and public participation for both
the post-prediction and immediate post-earthquake periods. This pilot effort is expected to
be usable in other highly seismic areas of California as well as in other States.

In the event of a catastrophic earthquake, a substantial number of Federal agencies would provide
support to and be coordinated by FEMA. Illustrative are the following:

   1. Department of Defense (DOD)

      Initially, local military commanders may provide necessary
support to save lives, alleviate suffering, or mitigate property
damage. Normally, additional DOD resources would not be committed
until a presidential declaration of an emergency or major disaster.
When this occurs, the Secretary of the Army is DOD Executive Agent for
military support. The Commander, Sixth U.S. Army, at the Presidio, San
Francisco, has been further delegated authority to coordinate disaster
relief operations in the western portion of the United States.
Extensive planning and coordination have taken place between the Sixth
U.S. Army and FEMA Region IX. DOD emergency functions include: damage
survey, search and rescue, emergency medical care,
identification and disposition of dead, emergency debris
clearance, emergency roads and bridge construction, airfield
repair, and identification and demolition of unsafe structures.
Specific units have been identified to respond to an earthquake in any
of the major population centers of California. For example, at this
time the following units would be prepared for commitment within 8
hours after a disaster is declared by the President:

        » Six medical units with a 1,320 bed capacity

        » Seven helicopter units with 90 utility helicopters and
          36 medium helicopters

        » One Infantry brigade of 1,500 personnel

        » Two engineer units with 78 pieces of heavy equipment

        » Two transportation units with 124 cargo trucks and
          trailers

These as well as additional DOD assets could be made available, contingent on defense priorities.

   2. The National Communication System

      This Agency's plan, the "National Plan for Communications Support
in Emergencies and Major Disasters," provides for planning and using
national telecommunications assets and resources during presidentially
declared emergencies and major disasters. The plan, which has been
exercised repeatedly in past disasters, provides the management
structure and the communications staff to support FEMA. Restoration
priorities have been assigned to all critical circuits.

   3. Department of Transportation (DOT)

      DOT has established an Office of Emergency Transportation. This
office has developed and maintains comprehensive emergency plans and
procedural manuals for natural disasters and other civil crises. It
constantly monitors the civil transportation system for indications of
potential adverse impacts from all hazards. It conducts scheduled
periodic training and readiness exercises for DOT emergency personnel
and maintains quick response cells and emergency operating facilities
at DOT headquarters and in the field to provide an immediate reaction
capability. The system has been activated several times in the recent
past (e.g., Three Mile Island, 1979 Energy/Fuel Crisis, Independent
Truckers' Strike, and the Mt. St. Helens eruption).

D. CONSIDERATIONS FOR IMPROVING RESPONSE CAPABILITY

Earthquake prediction has not been incorporated into existing plans. Response to predictions
in the current environment, if given, would be ad hoc. The State of California has only a rudimentary
plan and the Federal Government none. The City of Los Angeles has examined the problem extensively,
but only considers its own jurisdiction and has not produced an actionable plan. Current planning
for the recovery period is incomplete, uncoordinated, and not functional. State and local governments
have done little to plan for the recovery period when, following the emergency lifesaving phase,
efforts and resources are concentrated on restoring the functioning of the community. They
presume that the Federal Government will "step in" after a presidential declaration. The Federal
Government has an untested draft plan for the San Francisco area that is not fully coordinated
with the State plans. Current Federal plans are geared to the provision of assistance on the
order of a few hundred million dollars. Thus, there is little confidence that they would function
under the requirements for tens-of-billions-of-dollars and concomitant service demands.

Both Federal and State agencies need to commit the financial resources and assignment of personnel
to maintain and enhance earthquake plans and preparedness. Earthquake preparedness, although
responding to high damage expectation, is still based upon a relatively low probability occurrence.
When it is in competition with pressing social needs for a portion of limited resources, social
needs tend to prevail at all levels of government. Without a clear commitment, future development
of earthquake preparedness, as in the past, is problematic and its implementation is in considerable
doubt. The Federal earthquake preparedness effort needs to focus on a high state of readiness.

History in the area of natural hazard mitigation suggests that assignment of responsibility,
even by the President, when not followed by leadership and regular oversight over the allocation
of financial resources, seldom leads to programs which can be expected to function. The same
weakness is evidenced at the State and local government levels with few exceptions. The stresses
likely to occur in emergency response programs after a catastrophic earthquake will be such
that effective response will require a cooperative, integrated effort among different jurisdictions
and levels of government.

Experience in other areas of planning and preparedness, particularly for civil defense, indicates
that damage to existing programs occurs when the Federal Government raises expectations of
the public and of other levels of government and then fails to follow through with implementation
and funding. It is better to maintain the status quo with minor changes at the margin than
to announce substantial program initiatives and not meet their requirements.

CHAPTER V

AN ASSESSMENT OF THE SOCIAL IMPACTS

Often, it is assumed that disasters leave masses of the population in the impacted areas dazed
and helpless and unable to cope with the new conditions, or that those not so immobilized panic
or display antisocial behavior. The widespread sharing of danger, loss, and deprivation produces
an intimate cooperativeness among the survivors, which overcomes social isolation and provides
a channel for very close communication and expression and a major source of physical and emotional
support and reassurance. This capacity seems to account for the resiliency of personality and
social organization in dealing with threat and danger. It is also at the base of the ability
of social life to regenerate.

In addition, a good case can be made in that community systems experiencing impact may be more
efficient and rational than they are in "normal" circumstances. Normal (pre-disaster) community
life traditionally operates at a low level of effectiveness and efficiency. Activities are
directed toward a very diffuse set of goals, just as human resources within the community are
inadequately utilized. Upon disaster impact, certain community goals--care for victims and
the restoration of essential services--develop a high priority while others are ignored or
held in abeyance. Thus, the entire range of community resources, even taking into account "losses,"
can be allocated to the accomplishment of the more critical goals. Also, human resources are
better utilized. Many women, older persons, younger persons, and members of minorities now
become "productive;" the "labor" market after impact is open to those underutilized resources.
In effect, then, disasters create the conditions for the more efficient utilization of material
resources and the more effective mobilization of human resources.

To accomplish this, certain modifications have to occur in the normal community structure,
since the usual decision-making structures are designed for a different range and type of problem.
Outsiders see this restructuring process as disorganized, chaotic, and creating the necessity
for the imposition of some strong outside authority. On the contrary, this restructuring process
is functional and adaptive. Its consequences are seen in communities and societies that rebound
dramatically from the disruption and destruction to levels of integration, productivity, and
growth capacity far beyond the pre-disaster state.

In summary, the picture drawn points to the capacity of individuals and institutions to deal
with difficult problems created by disaster impact. It also points to the adaptive capacity
of social organization within communities to deal with unique and dramatic problems. These
findings are not an argument against planning nor against "outside" assistance, but they should
condition both the nature of planning and the direction of assistance.

ANNEX 1

LETTERS OF CORRESPONDENCE

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

  September 19, 1980

  To Governor Jerry Brown

As you know, following my trip to view the destructive impacts of the volcanic eruption of
Mt. St. Helens in the State of Washington, I directed that an assessment be undertaken of the
consequences and state of preparedness for a major earthquake in California. This review, chaired
by my Science and Technology Advisor, Frank Press, is now complete. We are grateful for the
assistance provided by your staff and the other State, and local officials in this effort.
Prudence requires, therefore, that we take steps to improve our preparedness.

While the primary responsibility for preparedness rests with the State of California, its local
governments and its people, the magnitude of human suffering and loss of life that might occur
and the importance of California to the rest of the Nation require increased Federal attention
to this important issue. Accordingly, I have directed that the Federal government increase
its work with you to supplement your efforts. The Federal efforts will be led by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and include the Department of Defense and other Departments and
agencies as appropriate.

As a Nation, we must reduce the adverse impacts of a catastrophic earthquake to the extent
humanly possible by increasing our preparedness for this potential eventuality.

  Sincerely,

  [signed] Jimmy Carter

  The Honorable Edmund G. Brown, Jr.
  Governor of California
  Sacramento, California 95814

  September 26, 1980

  The Honorable Jimmy Carter
  The President
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20500

  Dear Mr. President:

Let me take this opportunity to review our conversations over the last few months regarding
increased seismic activity in California.

When we met in Oakland on July 4 I raised the issue of seismic hazards. I was concerned then
with the steady increase in seismic activity in California since 1978. Sharing my concern,
you directed that the National Security Council join with my staff and certain local experts
to conduct a quick study on the potential for a great earthquake in California.

As you know, significant theoretical and public policy research had already been completed
by our Seismic Safety Commission, State Geologist, Earthquake Prediction Evaluation Council
and the Office of Emergency Services. Together with the U.S. Geological Survey and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), they had clearly been keeping abreast of the state of the
art of earthquake prediction. Indeed, combined state and federal efforts, founded on major
theoretical advances in American, Russian and Chinese seismic and geological theory since the
early 1970s, had shifted the language of earthquake prediction in California from "if" to "when"!

In light of my personal interest in this subject, I have signed into law Assemblyman Frank
Vicencia's AB 2202, a jointly funded state-federal project to design a comprehensive earthquake
prediction-response plan. It is the state's intention to prepare a plan for the greater Los
Angeles area as quickly as feasible. In my view, such a fullscale prediction-response program
had become possible only after the research findings of both physical and policy scientists
during the past five years. It is my conviction that such a plan is now timely--neither too
early nor too late.

In this context, your recognition of this issue in our conversation of September 22 in Los
Angeles was a welcome personal reinforcement of our state and local efforts. I am also grateful
for the September 3 briefing in Sacramento by Mr. John Macy, Director of FEMA, regarding the
latest U.S. Geological Survey interpretations of anomalies around California's system of geological
faults. As soon as we have received the final FEMA report on the details of those anomalies,
I will ask the state geologist to evaluate the report, confer with colleagues in the Geological
Survey and have all state and local officials fully briefed.

At that time, I would be grateful for an early opportunity to meet with you and explore next
steps. I am confident that a heightened state of awareness among my fellow Californians will
so deploy the resources of the state, plus available federal supplementary assistance, as to
minimize the loss of life and property in the event of a great earthquake.

  Sincerely,

  /s/

  Edmund G. Brown, Jr.
  Governor

ANNEX 2

CURRENT CALIFORNIA AND FEDERAL EARTHQUAKE RESPONSE PLANNING

A. NATURE OF EMERGENCY PLANNING

An emergency, as used in this report, is defined as an unexpected, sudden or out-of-the-ordinary
event or series of events adversely affecting lives and property which, because of its magnitude,
cannot be handled by normal governmental processes. Emergency response planning is the process
that addresses preparedness for and response to an emergency.

Emergency response planning is an evolutionary, ongoing process and is prerequisite to all
other emergency readiness activities. It is a comprehensive process that identifies the potential
hazardous events, and the vulnerability to such hazards, estimates expected losses, and assesses
impacts of such events. The development of written plans is followed by placement of capabilities
to implement the response plan and by the conduct of periodic tests and exercises. The most
difficult task in the development of an emergency plan is to anticipate as many of the problems
and complications resulting from a given disaster situation as possible and to provide a basis
for response to those not anticipated.

The objective of emergency planning is to create the capacity for government to:

        » Save the maximum number of lives in the event of an
          emergency

        » Minimize injuries and protect property

        » Preserve the functions of civil government

        » Maintain and support economic and social activities
          essential for response and the eventual long-term
          recovery from the disaster

Emergency planning is a logical and necessary pre-emergency activity for governmental (and
other organizational) entities likely to be affected by a disaster's occurrence. To be successful,
such planning must be accomplished within the framework of the day-to-day governmental structure
and activity but at the same time provide for response to the extraordinary circumstances and
requirements inherent in disaster situations.

Emergency plans include the preparation of guidelines, policy directives, and procedures to
be utilized in preparing for and conducting disaster operations, training, and test exercises.
They should also contain clear statements of authorities, responsibilities, organizational
relationships, and operating procedures necessary for the accomplishment of disaster response
and recovery activities. Further, they should address the four elements of mitigation, preparedness,
response, and recovery (immediate and long-term).

Once plans are established they must be periodically updated as conditions change. Updating
may become necessary for a number of reasons: increased scientific, technical, and managerial
knowledge; feedback from evaluation of exercises; better understanding of vulnerability; shifts
in population and economic activities; construction of new critical facilities; and changes
in personnel, organization, and legislation.

Emergency planning is a shared responsibility at all levels--in this case from the Federal
through the State and local jurisdictional levels. It should include business, industry, research
and scientific institutions, practicing professions, and the individuals. By involving all
functions of government, the planning process enhances the capability for implementing the
plans through the realistic consideration of available capabilities and elimination of conflicts
and inconsistencies of roles and task assignments.

Further, by being a part of the planning decision-making process and having identified the
needs and areas of consideration, individuals, organizations, and officials responsible for
emergency operations are better able to relate to the expected impact and the operational environment.
The written plans also serve valuable purposes for training and familiarization of new organizations,
individuals, and public officials. Experience has shown repeatedly that when emergency operations
are conducted in accordance with existing plans, reaction time is reduced and coordination
improved, with fewer casualties, less property damage, and a higher surviving socioeconomic
capability to undertake recovery. Other benefits that accrue from planning include the enhancement
of hazard awareness.

B. CALIFORNIA EMERGENCY PLANNING RESPONSE

