Quentin Durward sighed, but what other alternative remained, and how happy would he have been
but an instant before, to have been certain of the escape of Isabelle, even under worse terms?
They soon joined the band of Crevecoeur, and the Countess demanded to speak to the leader,
who had halted his party till he should reconnoitre the Black Troopers, and as he gazed on
her with doubt and uncertainty, she said, "Noble Count--Isabelle of Croye, the daughter of
your old companion in arms, Count Reinold of Croye, renders herself, and asks protection from
your valour for her and hers."

"Thou shalt have it, fair kinswoman, were it against a host--always excepting my liege lord,
of Burgundy. But there is little time to talk of it. These filthy looking fiends have made
a halt, as if they intended to dispute the matter.--By Saint George of Burgundy, they have
the insolence to advance against the banner of Crevecoeur! What! will not the knaves be ruled?
Damian, my lance!--Advance banner!--Lay your spears in the rest!--Crevecoeur to the Rescue!"

Crying his war cry, and followed by his men at arms, he galloped rapidly forward to charge
the Schwarzreiters.

CHAPTER XXIV: THE SURRENDER

     Rescue or none, Sir Knight, I am your captive:
     Deal with me what your nobleness suggests--
     Thinking the chance of war may one day place you
     Where I must now be reckon'd--I' the roll
     Of melancholy prisoners.

     ANONYMOUS

The skirmish betwixt the Schwarzreiters and the Burgundian men at arms lasted scarcely five
minutes, so soon were the former put to the rout by the superiority of the latter in armour,
weight of horse, and military spirit. In less than the space we have mentioned, the Count of
Crevecoeur, wiping his bloody sword upon his horse's mane ere he sheathed it, came back to
the verge of the forest, where Isabelle had remained a spectator of the combat. One part of
his people followed him, while the other continued to pursue the flying enemy for a little
space along the causeway.

"It is shame," said the Count, "that the weapons of knights and gentlemen should be soiled
by the blood of those brutal swine."

So saying, he returned his weapon to the sheath and added, "This is a rough welcome to your
home, my pretty cousin, but wandering princesses must expect such adventures. And well I came
up in time, for, let me assure you, the Black Troopers respect a countess's coronet as little
as a country wench's coif, and I think your retinue is not qualified for much resistance."

"My Lord Count," said the Lady Isabelle, "without farther preface, let me know if I am a prisoner,
and where you are to conduct me."

"You know, you silly child," answered the Count, "how I would answer that question, did it
rest on my own will. But you, and your foolish match making, marriage hunting aunt, have made
such wild use of your wings of late, that I fear you must be contented to fold them up in a
cage for a little while. For my part, my duty, and it is a sad one, will be ended when I have
conducted you to the Court of the Duke, at Peronne for which purpose I hold it necessary to
deliver the command of this reconnoitring party to my nephew, Count Stephen, while I return
with you thither, as I think you may need an intercessor.--And I hope the young giddy pate
will discharge his duty wisely."

"So please you, fair uncle," said Count Stephen, "if you doubt my capacity to conduct the men
at arms, even remain with them yourself, and I will be the servant and guard of the Countess
Isabelle of Croye."

"No doubt, fair nephew," answered his uncle, "this were a goodly improvement on my scheme,
but methinks I like it as well in the way I planned it. Please you, therefore, to take notice,
that your business here is not to hunt after and stick these black hogs, for which you seemed
but now to have felt an especial vocation, but to collect and bring to me true tidings of what
is going forward in the country of Liege, concerning which we hear such wild rumours. Let some
half score of lances follow me and the rest remain with my banner under your guidance."

"Yet one moment, cousin of Crevecoeur," said the Countess Isabelle, "and let me, in yielding
myself prisoner, stipulate at least for the safety of those who have befriended me in my misfortunes.
Permit this good fellow, my trusty guide, to go back unharmed to his native town of Liege."

"My nephew," said Crevecoeur, after looking sharply at Glover's honest breadth of countenance,
"shall guard this good fellow, who seems, indeed, to have little harm in him, as far into the
territory as he himself advances, and then leave him at liberty."

"Fail not to remember me to the kind Gertrude," said the Countess to her guide, and added,
taking a string of pearls from under her veil, "Pray her to wear this in remembrance of her
unhappy friend."

Honest Glover took the string of pearls, and kissed with clownish gesture, but with sincere
kindness, the fair hand which had found such a delicate mode of remunerating his own labours
and peril.

"Umph! signs and tokens," said the Count, "any farther bequests to make, my fair cousin?--It
is time we were on our way."

"Only," said the Countess, making an effort to speak, "that you will be pleased to be favourable
to this--this young gentleman."

"Umph!" said Crevecoeur, casting the same penetrating glance on Quentin which he had bestowed
on Glover, but apparently with a much less satisfactory result, and mimicking, though not offensively,
the embarrassment of the Countess.

"Umph!--Ay--this is a blade of another temper.--And pray, my cousin, what has this--this very
young gentleman done, to deserve such intercession at your hands?"

"He has saved my life and honour," said the Countess, reddening with shame and resentment.

Quentin also blushed with indignation, but wisely concluded that to give vent to it might only
make matters worse.

"Life and honour?--Umph!" said again the Count Crevecoeur, "methinks it would have been as
well, my cousin, if you had not put yourself in the way of lying under such obligations to
this very young gentleman.--But let it pass. The young gentleman may wait on us, if his quality
permit, and I will see he has no injury--only I will myself take in future the office of protecting
your life and honour, and may perhaps find for him some fitter duty than that of being a squire
of the body to damosels errant."

"My Lord Count," said Durward, unable to keep silence any longer, "lest you should talk of
a stranger in slighter terms than you might afterwards think becoming, I take leave to tell
you, that I am Quentin Durward, an Archer of the Scottish Bodyguard, in which, as you well
know, none but gentlemen and men of honour are enrolled."

"I thank you for your information, and I kiss your hands, Seignior Archer," said Crevecoeur,
in the same tone of raillery. "Have the goodness to ride with me to the front of the party."

As Quentin moved onward at the command of the Count, who had now the power, if not the right,
to dictate his motions, he observed that the Lady Isabelle followed his motions with a look
of anxious and timid interest, which amounted almost to tenderness, and the sight of which
brought water into his eyes. But he remembered that he had a man's part to sustain before Crevecoeur,
who, perhaps of all the chivalry in France or Burgundy, was the least likely to be moved to
anything but laughter by a tale of true love sorrow. He determined, therefore, not to wait
his addressing him, but to open the conversation in a tone which should assert his claim to
fair treatment, and to more respect than the Count, offended perhaps at finding a person of
such inferior note placed so near the confidence of his high born and wealthy cousin, seemed
disposed to entertain for him.

"My Lord Count of Crevecoeur," he said, in a temperate but firm tone of voice, "may I request
of you, before our interview goes farther, to tell me if I am at liberty, or am to account
myself your prisoner?"

"A shrewd question," replied the Count, "which at present I can only answer by another.--Are
France and Burgundy, think you, at peace or war with each other?"

"That," replied the Scot, "you, my lord, should certainly know better than I. I have been absent
from the Court of France, and have heard no news for some time."

"Look you there," said the Count, "you see how easy it is to ask questions, but how difficult
to answer them. Why, I myself, who have been at Peronne with the Duke for this week and better,
cannot resolve this riddle any more than you, and yet, Sir Squire, upon the solution of that
question depends the said point, whether you are prisoner or free man, and, for the present,
I must hold you as the former.--Only, if you have really and honestly been of service to my
kinswoman, and for you are candid in your answers to the questions I shall ask, affairs shall
stand the better with you."

"The Countess of Croye," said Quentin, "is best judge if I have rendered any service, and to
her I refer you on that matter. My answers you will yourself judge of when you ask me your
questions."

"Umph!--haughty enough," muttered the Count of Crevecoeur, "and very like one that wears a
lady's favour in his hat, and thinks he must carry things with a high tone, to honour the precious
remnant of silk and tinsel. Well, sir, I trust it will be no abatement of your dignity, if
you answer me, how long you have been about the person of the Lady Isabelle of Croye?"

"Count of Crevecoeur," said Quentin Durward, "if I answer questions which are asked in a tone
approaching towards insult, it is only lest injurious inferences should be drawn from my silence
respecting one to whom we are both obliged to render justice. I have acted as escort to the
Lady Isabelle since she left France to retire into Flanders."

"Ho! ho!" said the Count, "and that is to say, since she fled from Plessis les Tours?--You,
an Archer of the Scottish Guard, accompanied her, of course, by the express orders of King Louis?"

However little Quentin thought himself indebted to the King of France, who, in contriving the
surprisal of the Countess Isabelle by William de la Marck, had probably calculated on the young
Scotchman's being slain in her defence, he did not yet conceive himself at liberty to betray
any trust which Louis had reposed, or had seemed to repose, in him, and therefore replied to
Count Crevecoeur's inference that it was sufficient for him to have the authority of his superior
officer for what he had done, and he inquired no farther.

"It is quite sufficient," said the Count. "We know the King does not permit his officers to
send the Archers of his Guard to prance like paladins by the bridle rein of wandering ladies,
unless he hath some politic purpose to serve. It will be difficult for King Louis to continue
to aver so boldly that he knew' not of the Ladies of Croye's having escaped from France, since
they were escorted by one of his own Life guard.--And whither, Sir Archer, was your retreat
directed?"

"To Liege, my lord," answered the Scot, "where the ladies desired to be placed under the protection
of the late Bishop."

"The late Bishop!" exclaimed the Count of Crevecoeur, "is Louis of Bourbon dead?--Not a word
of his illness had reached the Duke.--Of what did he die?"

"He sleeps in a bloody grave, my lord--that is, if his murderers have conferred one on his
remains."

"Murdered!" exclaimed Crevecoeur again.--"Holy Mother of Heaven!--young man, it is impossible!"

"I saw the deed done with my own eyes, and many an act of horror besides."

"Saw it! and made not in to help the good Prelate!" exclaimed the Count, "or to raise the castle
against his murderers?--Know'st thou not that even to look on such a deed, without resisting
it, is profane sacrilege?"

"To be brief, my lord," said Durward, "ere this act was done, the castle was stormed by the
bloodthirsty William de la Marck, with help of the insurgent Liegeois."

"I am struck with thunder," said Crevecoeur. "Liege in insurrection!--Schonwaldt taken!--the
Bishop murdered--Messenger of sorrow, never did one man unfold such a packet of woes!--Speak--knew
you of this assault--of this insurrection--of this murder?--Speak--thou art one of Louis's
trusted Archers, and it is he that has aimed this painful arrow.--Speak, or I will have thee
torn with wild horses!"

"And if I am so torn, my lord, there can be nothing rent out of me, that may not become a true
Scottish gentleman: I know no more of these villainies than you--was so far from being partaker
in them, that I would have withstood them to the uttermost, had my means in a twentieth degree
equalled my inclination. But what could I do?--they were hundreds, and I but one. My only care
was to rescue the Countess Isabelle, and in that I was happily successful. Yet, had I been
near enough when the ruffian deed was so cruelly done on the old man, I had saved his gray
hairs, or I had avenged them, and as it was, my abhorrence was spoken loud enough to prevent
other horrors."

"I believe thee, youth," said the Count, "thou art neither of an age nor nature to be trusted
with such bloody work, however well fitted to be the squire of dames. But alas! for the kind
and generous Prelate, to be murdered on the hearth where he so often entertained the stranger
with Christian charity and princely bounty--and that by a wretch, a monster! a portentous growth
of blood and cruelty!--bred up in the very hall where he has imbrued his hands in his benefactor's
blood! But I know not Charles of Burgundy--nay, I should doubt of the justice of Heaven, if
vengeance be not as sharp, and sudden, and severe, as this villainy has been unexampled in
atrocity. And, if no other shall pursue the murderer"--here he paused, grasped his sword, then
quitting his bridle, struck both gauntleted hands upon his breast, until his corselet clattered,
and finally held them up to heaven, as he solemnly continued,--"I--I, Philip Crevecoeur of
Cordes, make a vow to God, Saint Lambert, and the Three Kings of Cologne, that small shall
be my thought of other earthly concerns, till I take full revenge on the murderers of the good
Louis of Bourbon, whether I find them in forest or field, in city or in country, in hill or
in plain, in King's Court or in God's Church! and thereto I pledge hands and living, friends
and followers, life and honour. So help me God, and Saint Lambert of Liege, and the Three Kings
of Cologne!"

When the Count of Crevecoeur had made his vow, his mind seemed in some sort relieved from the
overwhelming grief and astonishment with which he had heard the fatal tragedy that had been
acted at Schonwaldt, and he proceeded to question Durward more minutely concerning the particulars
of that disastrous affair, which the Scot, nowise desirous to abate the spirit of revenge which
the Count entertained against William de la Marck, gave him at full length.

"But those blind, unsteady, faithless, fickle beasts, the Liegeois," said the Count, "that
they should have combined themselves with this inexorable robber and murderer, to put to death
their lawful Prince!"

Durward here informed the enraged Burgundian that the Liegeois, or at least the better class
of them, however rashly they had run into the rebellion against their Bishop, had no design,
so far as appeared to him, to aid in the execrable deed of De la Marck but, on the contrary,
would have prevented it if they had had the means, and were struck with horror when they beheld it.

"Speak not of the faithless, inconstant plebeian rabble!" said Crevecoeur. "When they took
arms against a Prince who had no fault, save that he was too kind and too good a master for
such a set of ungrateful slaves--when they armed against him, and broke into his peaceful house,
what could there be in their intention but murder?--when they banded themselves with the Wild
Boar of Ardennes, the greatest homicide in the marches of Flanders, what else could there be
in their purpose but murder, which is the very trade he lives by? And again, was it not one
of their own vile rabble who did the very deed, by thine own account? I hope to see their canals
running blood by the flight of their burning houses. Oh, the kind, noble, generous lord, whom
they have slaughtered!--Other vassals have rebelled under the pressure of imposts and penury
but the men of Liege in the fullness of insolence and plenty."

He again abandoned the reins of his war horse, and wrung bitterly the hands, which his mail
gloves rendered untractable. Quentin easily saw that the grief which he manifested was augmented
by the bitter recollection of past intercourse and friendship with the sufferer, and was silent
accordingly, respecting feelings which he was unwilling to aggravate, and at the same time
felt it impossible to soothe. But the Count of Crevecoeur returned again and again to the subject--questioned
him on every particular of the surprise of Schonwaldt, and the death of the Bishop, and then
suddenly, as if he had recollected something which had escaped his memory, demanded what had
become of the Lady Hameline, and why she was not with her kinswoman?

"Not," he added contemptuously, "that I consider her absence as at all a loss to the Countess
Isabelle, for, although she was her kinswoman, and upon the whole a well meaning woman, yet
the Court of Cocagne never produced such a fantastic fool, and I hold it for certain that her
niece, whom I have always observed to be a modest and orderly young lady, was led into the
absurd frolic of flying from Burgundy to France, by that blundering, romantic old match making
and match seeking idiot!"

[Court of Cocagne: a fabled land intended to ridicule the stories of Avalon, the apple green
island, the home of King Arthur. "Its houses were built of good things to eat: roast geese
went slowly down the street, turning themselves, and inviting the passersby to eat them; buttered
larks fell in profusion; the shingles of the houses were of cake." Cent. Dict. Cocagne has
also been called Lubberland.]

What a speech for a romantic lover to hear! and to hear, too, when it would have been ridiculous
in him to attempt what it was impossible for him to achieve--namely, to convince the Count,
by force of arms, that he did foul wrong to the Countess--the peerless in sense as in beauty--in
terming her a modest and orderly young woman, qualities which might have been predicated with
propriety of the daughter of a sunburnt peasant, who lived by goading the oxen, while her father
held the plough. And then, to suppose her under the domination and supreme guidance of a silly
and romantic aunt!--The slander should have been repelled down the slanderer's throat. But
the open, though severe, physiognomy of the Count of Crevecoeur, the total contempt which he
seemed to entertain for those feelings which were uppermost in Quentin's bosom, overawed him,
not for fear of the Count's fame in arms, that was a risk which would have increased his desire
of making out a challenge--but in dread of ridicule, the weapon of all others most feared by
enthusiasts of every description, and which, from its predominance over such minds, often checks
what is absurd, and fully as often smothers that which is noble.

Under the influence of this fear of becoming an object of scorn rather than resentment, Durward,
though with some pain, confined his reply to a confused account of the Lady Hameline's having
made her escape from Schonwaldt before the attack took place. He could not, indeed, have made
his story very distinct, without throwing ridicule on the near relation of Isabelle and perhaps
incurring some himself, as having been the object of her preposterous expectations. He added
to his embarrassed detail, that he had heard a report, though a vague one, of the Lady Hameline's
having again fallen into the hands of William de la Marck.

"I trust in Saint Lambert that he will marry her," said Crevecoeur, "as indeed, he is likely
enough to do, for the sake of her moneybags, and equally likely to knock her on the head, so
soon as these are either secured in his own grasp, or, at farthest, emptied."

The Count then proceeded to ask so many questions concerning the mode in which both ladies
had conducted themselves on the journey, the degree of intimacy to which they admitted Quentin
himself, and other trying particulars, that, vexed, and ashamed, and angry, the youth was scarce
able to conceal his embarrassment from the keen sighted soldier and courtier, who seemed suddenly
disposed to take leave of him, saying, at the same time, "Umph--I see it is as I conjectured,
on one side at least, I trust the other party has kept her senses better.--Come, Sir Squire,
spur on, and keep the van, while I fall back to discourse with the Lady Isabelle. I think I
have learned now so much from you, that I can talk to her of these sad passages without hurting
her nicety, though I have fretted yours a little.--Yet stay, young gallant--one word ere you
go. You have had, I imagine, a happy journey through Fairyland--all full of heroic adventure,
and high hope, and wild minstrel-like delusion, like the gardens of Morgaine la Fee [half-sister
of Arthur. Her gardens abounded in all good things; music filled the air, and the inhabitants
enjoyed perpetual youth]. Forget it all, young soldier," he added, tapping him on the shoulder,
"remember yonder lady only as the honoured Countess of Croye--forget her as a wandering and
adventurous damsel. And her friends--one of them I can answer for--will remember, on their
part, only the services you have done her, and forget the unreasonable reward which you have
had the boldness to propose to yourself."

Enraged that he had been unable to conceal from the sharp sighted Crevecoeur feelings which
the Count seemed to consider as the object of ridicule, Quentin replied indignantly, "My Lord
Count, when I require advice of you, I will ask it, when I demand assistance of you, it will
be time enough to grant or refuse it, when I set peculiar value on your opinion of me, it will
not be too late to express it."

"Heyday!" said the Count, "I have come between Amadis and Oriana, and must expect a challenge
to the lists!"

[Amadis is the hero of a famous mediaeval romance originally written in Portuguese, but translated
into French and much enlarged by subsequent romancers. Amadis is represented as a model of
chivalry. His lady was Oriana.]

"You speak as if that were an impossibility," said Quentin. "When I broke a lance with the
Duke of Orleans, it was against a head in which flowed better blood than that of Crevecoeur.--When
I measured swords with Dunois, I engaged a better warrior."

"Now Heaven nourish thy judgment, gentle youth," said Crevecoeur, still laughing at the chivalrous
inamorato. "If thou speak'st truth, thou hast had singular luck in this world, and, truly,
if it be the pleasure of Providence exposes thee to such trials, without a beard on thy lip,
thou wilt be mad with vanity ere thou writest thyself man. Thou canst not move me to anger,
though thou mayst to mirth. Believe me, though thou mayst have fought with Princes, and played
the champion for Countesses, by some of those freaks which Fortune will sometimes exhibit,
thou art by no means the equal of those of whom thou hast been either the casual opponent,
or more casual companion. I can allow thee like a youth, who hath listened to romances till
he fancied himself a Paladin, to form pretty dreams for some time, but thou must not be angry
at a well meaning friend, though he shake thee something roughly by the shoulders to awake thee."

"My Lord of Crevecoeur," said Quentin, "my family--"

"Nay, it was not utterly of family that I spoke," said the Count, "but of rank, fortune, high
station, and so forth, which place a distance between various degrees and classes of persons.
As for birth, all men are descended from Adam and Eve."

"My Lord Count," repeated Quentin, "my ancestors, the Durwards of Glen Houlakin--"

"Nay," said the Count, "if you claim a farther descent for them than from Adam, I have done!
Good even to you."

He reined back his horse, and paused to join the Countess, to whom, if possible, his insinuations
and advices, however well meant, were still more disagreeable than to Quentin, who, as he rode
on, muttered to himself, "Cold blooded, insolent, overweening coxcomb!--Would that the next
Scottish Archer who has his harquebuss pointed at thee, may not let thee off so easily as I did!"

In the evening they reached the town of Charleroi, on the Sambre, where the Count of Crevecoeur
had determined to leave the Countess Isabelle, whom the terror and fatigue of yesterday, joined
to a flight of fifty miles since morning, and the various distressing sensations by which it
was accompanied, had made incapable of travelling farther with safety to her health. The Count
consigned her, in a state of great exhaustion, to the care of the Abbess of the Cistercian
convent in Charleroi, a noble lady, to whom both the families of Crevecoeur and Croye were
related, and in whose prudence and kindness he could repose confidence.

Crevecoeur himself only stopped to recommend the utmost caution to the governor of a small
Burgundian garrison who occupied the place, and required him also to mount a guard of honour
upon the convent during the residence of the Countess Isabelle of Croye--ostensibly to secure
her safety, but perhaps secretly to prevent her attempting to escape. The Count only assigned
as a cause for the garrison's being vigilant, some vague rumours which he had heard of disturbances
in the Bishopric of Liege. But he was determined himself to be the first who should carry the
formidable news of the insurrection and the murder of the Bishop, in all their horrible reality,
to Duke Charles, and for that purpose, having procured fresh horses for himself and suite,
he mounted with the resolution of continuing his journey to Peronne without stopping for repose,
and, informing Quentin Durward that he must attend him, he made, at the same time, a mock apology
for parting fair company, but hoped that to so devoted a squire of dames a night's journey
by moonshine would be more agreeable than supinely to yield himself to slumber like an ordinary
mortal.

Quentin, already sufficiently afflicted by finding that he was to be parted from Isabelle,
longed to answer this taunt with an indignant defiance, but aware that the Count would only
laugh at his anger, and despise his challenge, he resolved to wait some future time, when he
might have an opportunity of obtaining some amends from this proud lord, who, though for very
different reasons, had become nearly as odious to him as the Wild Boar of Ardennes himself.
He therefore assented to Crevecoeur's proposal, as to what he had no choice of declining, and
they pursued in company, and with all the despatch they could exert, the road between Charleroi
and Peronne.

     OLD PLAY

Quentin, during the earlier part of the night journey, had to combat with that bitter heartache
which is felt when youth parts, and probably forever, with her he loves. As, pressed by the
urgency of the moment, and the impatience of Crevecoeur, they hasted on through the rich lowlands
of Hainault, under the benign guidance of a rich and lustrous harvest moon, she shed her yellow
influence over rich and deep pastures, woodland, and cornfields, from which the husbandmen
were using her light to withdraw the grain, such was the industry of the Flemings, even at
that period, she shone on broad, level, and fructifying rivers, where glided the white sail
in the service of commerce, uninterrupted by rock and torrent, beside lively quiet villages,
whose external decency and cleanliness expressed the ease and comfort of the inhabitants,--she
gleamed upon the feudal castle of many a Baron and Knight, with its deep moat, battlemented
court, and high belfry--for the chivalry of Hainault was renowned among the nobles of Europe--and
her light displayed at a distance, in its broad beam, the gigantic towers of more than one
lofty minster.

Yet all this fair variety, however, differing from the waste and wilderness of his own land,
interrupted not the course of Quentin's regrets and sorrows. He had left his heart behind him
when he departed from Charleroi, and the only reflection which the farther journey inspired
was that every step was carrying him farther from Isabelle. His imagination was taxed to recall
every word she had spoken, every look she had directed towards him, and, as happens frequently
in such cases, the impression made upon his imagination by the recollection of these particulars,
was even stronger than the realities themselves had excited.

At length, after the cold hour of midnight was past, in spite alike of love and of sorrow,
the extreme fatigue which Quentin had undergone the two preceding days began to have an effect
on him, which his habits of exercise of every kind, and his singular alertness and activity
of character, as well as the painful nature of the reflections which occupied his thoughts,
had hitherto prevented his experiencing. The ideas of his mind began to be so little corrected
by the exertions of his senses, worn out and deadened as the latter now were by extremity of
fatigue, that the visions which the former drew superseded or perverted the information conveyed
by the blunted organs of seeing and hearing, and Durward was only sensible that he was awake,
by the exertions which, sensible of the peril of his situation, he occasionally made to resist
falling into a deep and dead sleep. Every now and then, strong consciousness of the risk of
falling from or with his horse roused him to exertion and animation, but ere long his eyes
again were dimmed by confused shades of all sorts of mingled colours, the moonlight landscape
swam before them, and he was so much overcome with fatigue, that the Count of Crevecoeur, observing
his condition, was at length compelled to order two of his attendants, one to each rein of
Durward's bridle, in order to prevent the risk of his falling from his horse.

When at length they reached the town of Landrecy, the Count, in compassion to the youth, who
had now been in a great measure without sleep for three nights, allowed himself and his retinue
a halt of four hours, for rest and refreshment. Deep and sound were Quentin's slumbers, until
they were broken by the sound of the Count's trumpet, and the cry of his Fouriers [subordinate
officers who secure quarters for the army while manoeuvring] and harbingers, "Debout! debout!
Ha! Messires, en route, en route! [arise, let us set out!]"

