Mason went not far, but scornfully. He took lodgings in the town to wait and see the inevitable
wreck that the widow was inviting for her house. For two months he waited, but was disappointed.
The hotel continued in business; the widow had not come to beg for his return; his credit was
being injured with excessive use; and as he had found no other work, he took the stage to the
larger town of Petersburg some thirty miles away. Here he sought a job, in his special craft
of "joy mixer" but, failing to find that, he turned his attention to another near akin. In
those days the liquor laws of Canada provided a heavy fine for any breach of regulation; and
of this the informant got half. Here was an easy and honourable calling for which he was well
equipped.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has ever been law in the man's code that he must protect the place he drinks in, so that
the keepers of these evil joints are often careless over little lapses. Thus Whiskey Mason
easily found a victim, and within three days was rich once more with half of the thousand-dollar
fine that the magistrate imposed.

He felt that all the country suddenly was his lawful prey. He could not long remain in Petersburg,
where he was soon well known and shunned. He had some trouble, too, for threats against his
life began to reach him more and more. It was the magistrate himself who suggested contemptuously,
"You had better take out a pistol license, my friend; and you would be safer in a town where
no one knows you."

In those early days before his dismissal by Kitty, Mason's life and Little Jim's had no point
of meeting. Six years later, when he returned to Links, Jimmy was discovering great possibilities
in the stables of the Inn. Mason often called at the bar-room where he had once been the ruling
figure, and was received with cold aloofness. But he was used to that; his calling had hardened
him to any amount of human scorn. He still found a kindred spirit, however, in the stable man,
Watsie Hall, and these two would often "visit" in the feed room, which was a favourite playground
of the bright-haired boy.

It is always funny if one can inspire terror without actual danger to the victim. Mason and
Hall taught Jim to throw stones at sparrows, cats, and dogs, when his mother was not looking.
He hardly ever hit them, and his hardest throw was harmless, but he learned to love the sport.
A stray dog that persisted in stealing scraps which were by right the heritage of hens, was
listed as an enemy, and together they showed Jim how to tie a tin can on the dog's tail in
a manner that produced amazingly funny results and the final disappearance of the cur in a
chorus of frantic yelps.

These laboratory experiments on animals developed under the able tutors, and Jim was instructed
in the cat's war dance, an ingenious mode of inspiring puss to outdo her own matchless activity
in a series of wild gyrations, by glueing to each foot a shoe of walnut shell, half filled
with melted cobbler's wax to hold it on. Flattered by their attentions at first, the cat purred
blandly as they fitted on the shoes. Jim's eyes were big and bright with tensest interest.
The cat was turned loose in the grain room. To hear her own soft pads drop on the floor, each
with a sharp, hard crack, must have been a curious, jarring experience. To find at every step
a novel sense of being locked in, must have conjured up deep apprehensions in her soul. And
when she fled, and sought to scale the partition, to find that her claws were gone--that she
was now a thing with hoofs--must have been a horrid nightmare. Fear entered into her soul,
took full control; then followed the wild erratic circling around the room, with various ridiculous
attempts to run up the walls, which were so insanely silly that little James shrieked for joy,
and joining in with the broom, urged the cat to still more amazing evidences of muscular activity
not excelled by any other creature.

It was rare sport with just a sense of sin to give it tang, for he had been forbidden to torment
the cat, and Jim saw nothing but the funny side; he was only seven.

It was a week later that they tried the walnut trick again, and Jim was eager to see the "circus."
But the cat remembered; she drove her teeth deep into Hall's hand and fought with a feline
fury that is always terrifying. Jim was gazing in big-eyed silence, when Hall, enraged, thrust
the cat into the leg of a boot and growled, "I'll fix yer biting," and held her teeth to the
grindstone till the body in the boot was limp.

At the first screech of the cat, Jim's whole attitude had changed. Amusement and wild-eyed
wonder had given way to a shocking realization of the wicked cruelty. He sprang at Hall and
struck him with all the best vigour of his baby fists. "Let my kitty go, you!" and he kicked
the hostler in the shins until he himself was driven away. He fled indoors to his mother, flung
himself into her arms and sobbed in newly awakened horror. To his dying day he never forgot
that cry of pain. He had been in the way of cruel training with these men, but the climax woke
him up. It was said that he never after was cruel to any creature, but this is sure--that he
never after cared to be with cats of any sort.

This was the end of Hall, so far as his life had bearing on that of James Hartigan Second;
for Kitty dismissed him promptly as soon as she heard the story of his brutality.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all the specimens of fine, physical manhood who owned allegiance to Downey's Hotel, Fightin'
Bill Kenna was the outstanding figure. He was not so big as Mulcahy, or such a wrestler as
Dougherty, or as skilled a boxer as McGraw; he knew little of the singlestick and nothing of
knife- or gun-play; and yet his combination of strength, endurance and bullet-headed pluck
made him by general voice "the best man in Links."

Bill's temper was fiery; he loved a fight. He never was worsted, the nearest thing to it being
a draw between himself and Terry Barr. After that Terry went to the States and became a professional
pugilist of note. Bill's social record was not without blemish. He was known to have appropriated
a rope, to the far end of which was attached another man's horse. He certainly had been in
jail once and should have been there a dozen times, for worse crimes than fighting. And yet
Bill was firmly established as Bible bearer in the annual Orangemen's parade and would have
smashed the face of any man who tried to rob him of his holy office.

Kenna was supposed to be a farmer, but he loved neither crops nor land. The dream of his exuberant
life was to be a horse breeder, for which profession he had neither the capital nor the brains.
His social and convivial instincts ever haled him townward, and a well-worn chair in Downey's
bar-room was by prescriptive right the town seat of William Kenna, Esq., of the Township of
Opulenta. Bill had three other good qualities besides his mighty fists. He was true to his
friends, he was kind to the poor and he had great respect for his "wurd as a mahn." If he gave
his "wurd as a mahn" to do thus and so, he ever made a strenuous effort to keep it.

Bill was madly in love with Kitty Hartigan. She was not unmoved by the huge manliness of the
warlike William, but she had too much sense to overlook his failings, and she held him off
as she did a dozen more--her devoted lovers all--who hung around ever hoping for special favour.
But though Kitty would not marry him, she smiled on Kenna indulgently and thus it was that
this man of brawn had far too much to say in shaping the life of little Jim Hartigan. High
wisdom or deep sagacity was scarcely to be named among Kenna's attributes, and yet instinctively
he noted that the surest way to the widow's heart was through her boy. This explained the beginning
of their friendship, but other things soon entered in. Kenna, with all his faults, was a respecter
of women, and--they commonly go together--a clumsy, awkward, blundering lover of children.
Little Jim was bright enough to interest any one; and, with the certain instinct of a child,
he drifted toward the man whose heart was open to him. Many a day, as Kenna split some blocks
of wood that were over big and knotty for the official axeman, Jim would come to watch and
marvel at the mighty blows. His comments told of the imaginative power born in his Celtic blood:

"Bill, let's play you are the Red Dermid smiting the bullhide bearing Lachlin," he would shout,
and at once the brightness of his mental picture and his familiarity with the nursery tales
of Erin that were current even in the woods created a wonder-world about him. Then his Ulster
mind would speak. He would laugh a little shamefaced chuckle at himself and say:

"It's only Big Bill Kenna splitting wood."

Bill was one of the few men who talked to Jim about his father; and, with singular delicacy,
he ever avoided mentioning the nauseating fact that the father was a papist. No one who has
not lived in the time and place of these feuds can understand the unspeakable abomination implied
by that word; it was the barrier that kept his other friends from mention of the dead man's
name; and yet, Bill spoke with kindly reverence of him as, "a broth of a bhoy, a good mahn,
afraid of no wan, and as straight as a string."

Among the occasional visitors at the stable yard was young Tom Ford, whose father owned the
mill and half the town. Like his father, Tom was a masterful person, hungry for power and ready
to rule by force. On the occasion of his first visit he had quarrelled with Jim, and being
older and stronger, had won their boyish fight. It was in the hour of his humiliation that
Kenna had taken Jim on his knee and said:

"Now Jim, I'm the lepricaun that can tache you magic to lick that fellow aisy, if ye'll do
what I tell you." And at the word "lepricaun," the Celt in Jim rose mightier than the fighting,
bullet-headed Saxon. His eager word and look were enough.

"Now, listen, bhoy. I'll put the boxing gloves on you every day, an' I'll put up a sack of
oats, an' we'll call it Tom Ford; an' ye must hit that sack wi' yer fist every day wan hundred
times, twenty-five on the top side and siventy-five on the bottom side for the undercut is
worth more than the uppercut anny day; an' when ye've done that, ye're making magic, and at
the end of the moon ye'll be able to lick Tom Ford."

Jim began with all his ten-year-old vigour to make the necessary magic, and had received Bill's
unqualified approval until one day he appeared chewing something given him by one of the men
as a joke. Jim paused before Bill and spat out a brown fluid.

"Fwhat are ye doing?" said Bill; then to his disgust, he found that Jim, inspired probably
by his own example, was chewing tobacco.

"Spit it out, ye little divil, an' never agin do that. If ye do that three times before ye're
twenty-one, ye'll make a spell that will break you, an' ye'll never lick Tom Ford."

Thus, with no high motive, Kenna was in many ways, the guardian of the child. Coarse, brutish,
and fierce among men, he was ever good to the boy and respectful to his mother; and he rounded
out his teaching by the doctrine: "If ye give yer word as a mahn, ye must not let all hell
prevent ye holding to it." And he whispered in a dreadful tone that sent a chill through the
youngster's blood: "It'll bring the bone-rot on ye if ye fail; it always does."

It is unfortunate that we cannot number the town school principal as a large maker of Jim's
mind. Jim went to school and the teacher did the best he could. He learned to read, to write
and to figure, but books irked him and held no lure. His joy was in the stable yard and the
barn where dwelt those men of muscle and of animal mind; where the boxing gloves were in nightly
use, the horses in daily sight, and the world of sport in ring or on turf was the only world
worth any man's devotion.

There were a dozen other persons who had influence in the shaping of the life and mind of Little
Jim Hartigan; but there was one that overpowered, that far outweighed, that almost negatived
the rest; that was his mother. She could scarcely read, and all the reading she ever tried
to do was in her Bible. Filled with the vision of what she wished her boy to be--a minister
of Christ--Kitty sent him to the public school, but the colour of his mind was given at home.
She told him the stories of the Man of Galilee, and on Sundays, hand in hand, they went to
the Presbyterian Church, to listen to tedious details that illustrated the practical impossibility
of any one really winning out in the fight with sin.

She sang the nursery songs of the old land and told the tales of magic that made his eyes stare
wide with loving, childish wonder. She told him what a brave, kind man his father had been,
and ever came back to the world's great Messenger of Love. Not openly, but a thousand times--in
a thousand deeply felt, deeply meant, unspoken ways--she made him know that the noblest calling
man might ever claim was this, to be a herald of the Kingdom. Alone, on her knees, she would
pray that her boy might be elected to that great estate and that she might live to see him
going forth a messenger of the Prince of Peace.

Kitty was alive to the danger of the inherited taste for drink in her son. The stern, uncompromising
Presbyterian minister of the town, in whose church the widow had a pew, was temperate, but
not an abstainer; in fact, it was his custom to close the day with a short prayer and a tall
glass of whiskey and water. While, with his advice, she had entirely buried her doctrinal scruples
on the selling of drink to the moderate, her mother-heart was not so easily put to sleep. Her
boy belonged to the house side of the hotel. He was not supposed to enter the saloon; and when,
one day, she found an unscrupulous barkeeper actually amusing himself by giving the child a
taste of the liquid fire, she acted with her usual promptitude and vigour. The man was given
just enough time to get his hat and coat, and the boy was absolutely forbidden the left wing
of the house. Later, in the little room where he was born, she told Jim sadly and gently what
it would mean, what suffering the drinking habit had brought upon herself, and thus, for the
first time, he learned that this had been the cause of his father's death. The boy was deeply
moved and voluntarily offered to pledge himself never to touch a drop again so long as he lived.
But his mother wisely said:

"No, Jim; don't say it that way. Leaning backward will not make you safer from a fall; only
promise me you'll never touch it till you are eighteen; then I know you will be safe."

And he promised her that he never would; he gave his word--no more; for already the rough and
vigorous teaching of Bill Kenna had gripped him in some sort. He felt that there was no more
binding seal; that any more was more than man should give.

When Jim was twelve he was very tall and strong for his age, and almost too beautiful for a
boy. His mother, of course, was idolatrous in her love. His ready tongue, his gift of reciting
funny or heroic verse, and his happy moods had made him a general favourite, the king of the
stable yard. Abetted, inspired and trained by Kenna, he figured in many a boyish fight, and
usually won so that he was not a little pleased with himself in almost every way. Had he not
carried out his promise of two years before and thrashed the mayor's son, who was a year older
than himself, and thereby taught a lesson to that stuck-up, purse-proud youngster? Could he
not ride with any man? Yes, and one might add, match tongues with any woman. For his native
glibness was doubly helped by the vast, unprintable vocabularies of his chosen world, as well
as by choice phrases from heroic verse that were a more exact reflex of his mind.

Then, on a day, came Whiskey Mason drifting into Links once more. He was making an ever scantier
living out of his wretched calling, and had sunk as low as he could sink. But he had learned
a dozen clever tricks to make new victims.

At exactly eleven o'clock, P.M., the bar-room had been closed, as was by law required. At exactly
eleven five, P.M. a traveller, sick and weak, supported by a friend, came slowly along the
dusty road to the door, and, sinking down in agony of cramps, protested he could go no farther
and begged for a little brandy, as his friend knocked on the door, imploring kindly aid for
the love of heaven. The barkeeper was obdurate, but the man was in such a desperate plight
that the Widow Hartigan was summoned. Ever ready at the call of trouble her kindly heart responded.
The sick man revived with a little brandy; his friend, too, seemed in need of similar help
and, uttering voluble expressions of gratitude, the travellers went on to lodgings on the other
side of the town, carrying with them a flask in which was enough of the medicine to meet a
new attack if one should come before they reached their destination.

At exactly eleven ten, P.M., these two helpless, harmless strangers received the flask from
Widow Hartigan. At exactly eight A.M., the next day, at the opening of the Magistrate's office,
they laid their information before him, that the Widow Hartigan was selling liquor out of hours.
Here was the witness and here was the flask. They had not paid for this, they admitted, but
said it had been "charged." All the town was in a talk. The papers were served, and on the
following day, in court, before Tom Ford, the Mayor, the charge was made and sworn to by Mason,
who received, and Hall, who witnessed and also received, the unlawful drink.

It was so evidently a trumped-up case that some judges would have dismissed it. But the Mayor
was human; this woman had flouted his wife; her boy had licked his boy. The fine might be anything
from one hundred up to one thousand dollars. The Mayor was magnanimous; he imposed the minimum
fine. So the widow was mulcted a hundred dollars for playing the rôle of good Samaritan. Mason
and Hall got fifty dollars to divide, and five minutes later were speeding out of town. They
left no address. In this precautionary mood their instincts were right, though later events
proved them to be without avail.

Just one hour after the disappearance of Mason, Kenna came to town and heard how the Widow's
open-hearted kindness had led her into a snare. His first question was: "Where is he?" No one
knew, but every one agreed that he had gone in a hurry. Now it is well known that experienced
men seeking to elude discovery make either for the absolute wilderness or else the nearest
big city. There is no hiding place between. Kenna did not consult Kitty. He rode, as fast as
horse could bear his robust bulk to Petersburg where Mason had in some sort his headquarters.

It was noon the next day before Bill found him, sitting in the far end of the hardware shop.
Mason never sat in the saloons, for the barkeepers would not have him there. He did not loom
large, for he always tried to be as inconspicuous as possible, and his glance was shifty.

Bill nodded to the iron dealer and passed back to the stove end of the store. Yes, there sat
Mason. They recognized each other. The whiskey sneak rose in trepidation. But William said
calmly, "Sit down."

"Well," he continued with a laugh, "I hear you got ahead of the Widdy."

"Yeh."

"Well, she can afford it," said Bill. "She's getting rich."

Mason breathed more freely.

"I should think ye'd carry a revolver in such a business," said William, inquiringly.

"Bet I do," said Mason.

"Let's have a look at it," said Kenna. Mason hesitated.

"Ye better let me see it, or----" There was a note of threat for the first time. Mason drew
his revolver, somewhat bewildered. Before the informer knew what move was best, Kenna reached
out and took the weapon.

"I hear ye got twenty-five dollars from the Widdy."

"Yeh." And Mason began to move nervously under the cold glitter in Kenna's eyes.

"I want ye to donate that to the orphan asylum. Here, Jack!" Kenna called to the clerk, "Write
on a big envelope 'Donation for the orphan asylum. Conscience money.'"

"What does it say?" inquired Bill, for he could not read. The clerk held out the envelope and
read the inscription.

"All right," said Bill, "now, Mason, jest so I won't lose patience with you and act rough like,
hand over that twenty-five."

"I ain't got it, I tell you. It's all gone."

"Turn out your pockets, or I will."

The whiskey sneak unwillingly turned out his pockets. He had fifteen dollars and odd.

"Put it in that there envelope," said Bill, with growing ferocity. "Now gum it up. Here, Jack,
will ye kindly drop this in the contribution box for the orphans while we watch you?" The clerk
entered into the humour of it all. He ran across the street to the gate of the orphan asylum
and dropped the envelope into the box. Mason tried to escape but Bill's mighty hand was laid
on his collar. And now the storm of animal rage pent up in him for so long broke forth. He
used no weapon but his fists, and when the doctor came, he thought the whiskey man was dead.
But they brought him round, and in the hospital he lingered long.

It was clearly a case of grave assault; the magistrate was ready to issue a warrant for Kenna's
arrest. But such was Bill's reputation that they could get no constable to serve it. Meanwhile,
Mason hung between life and death. He did not die. Within six weeks, he was able to sit up
and take a feeble interest in things about him, while Bill at Links pursued his normal life.

Gossip about the affair had almost died when the Mayor at Petersburg received a document that
made him start. The Attorney General of the Province wrote: "Why have you not arrested the
man who committed that assault? Why has no effort been made to administer justice?"

The Mayor was an independent business man, seeking no political favours, and he sent a very
curt reply. "You had better come and arrest him yourself, if you are so set on it."

That was why two broad, square men, with steadfast eyes, came one day into Links. They sought
out Bill Kenna and found him in the bar-room, lifting the billiard table with one hand, as
another man slipped wedges under it to correct the level. Little Jim, though he had no business
there at all, stood on the table itself and gave an abundance of orders.

"Are you William Kenna?" said the first of the strangers.

"I am that," said he.

"Then I arrest you in the Queen's name"; and the officer held up a paper while the other produced
a pair of handcuffs.

"Oi'd like to see ye put them on me." And the flood of fight in him surged up.

He was covered by two big revolvers now, which argument had no whit of power to modify his
mood; but another factor had. The Widow who had entered in search of Jim and knew the tragedy
that hung by a hair, sped to his side: "Now, Bill, don't ye do it! I forbid ye to do it!"

"If they try to put them on me, I'll kill or be killed. If they jist act dacent, I'll go quiet."

"Will ye give yer word, Bill?"

"I will, Kitty; I'll give me word as a mahn. I'll go peaceable if they don't try to handcuff me."

