Father Morley was true to the last, although he was becoming unpopular on account of having
so long supported me. Lieut. Gully was another true friend of mine; he said he would never
turn against me until I had done something wrong, even if Brigham should desire him to do so.
This lost him his influence in the Council.

The most willful and damnable lies were brought up against me. Many things which had been said
and done in moments of amusement and jocularity were remembered, as though I had said and done
those things for wicked purposes. Everything that could be discovered or invented to injure
me was laid to my charge. All who were against me had a full chance to talk.

Brother Johnson, who was there, but not as a member of the Council, was called upon to fill
a vacancy occasioned by the absence of some member. He made a speech to the Council, and showed
where I had acted well; he then voted for my acquittal. Brother Cummings, who had been a member
of the Council when I was first tried in the summer, and who then took my part, now thought
he would make himself popular with the people, so he volunteered his evidence and bore false
witness against me. This man's action was wrong and uncharitable. I had been more than a brother
to him in the past; I had supplied his family with food when they would have suffered but for
the help I gave them.

The result of the trial was that I was ordered to confess I had been in fault; that I was alone
to blame, and must ask the people to forgive me. If I refused I was to be cut off from the Church.

To a man in my situation it was equivalent to death to be cut off from the Church; my wives
would be taken from me, my property consecrated to the Church, and I turned adrift, broken
and disgraced, and liable to suffer death at the hand of any brother Danite who wished to take
my life to save my soul. I replied that in justice to myself I could not make such confession,
but, if nothing else would do, I would say as the Council commended me to say - that is, I
would make the confession. I was told that this would not do; that no whipping of the devil
around a stump would do them; my confession must be full and unconditional.

What the result would have been I cannot say, for just then a messenger returned, saying that
Brigham was near at hand, on his return with the pioneers who had gone out with him to look
for a resting place for the Saints. This stopped proceedings.

The majority of the people rushed forth to meet Brigham. I returned home, conscious of my innocence
and willing that the people should have the first show to talk to Brigham and give him their
side of the case. I did this so that I might see how much he could be stuffed.

The people told their story and misrepresented me in every way; they told Brigham how I had
divided the land, and said that I and Father Morley both declared that he had ordered me and
my family to take the cleared land.

Brigham sided against me.

After that there was nothing left undone by many of the people to irritate or injure me or
my family.

My property was stolen, my fences broken down, and everything that vile men could imagine or
work up by studying deviltry was done to make life a burden to me. I had raised over seven
thousand bushels of corn, and everyone had a good crop. I had a large lot filled up in the
husk, and I let my cattle run to it so as to keep them fat during the winter, that I might
drive them over the plains in the spring. My enemies took advantage of my position, and drove
my cattle from my own corn pile and put them into the estray pound. I offered to put all the
corn I had into their hands as security, until I could have a meeting called to examine into
the charge. I wanted my cows at home, for we needed the milk. I had a large family, and many
little children that would suffer without milk. Half the men in the settlement offered to go
my security, but to no purpose. I sent Lieut. Gully to Brigham with a statement of the case,
but he paid no attention to it. Gully was well acquainted with Brigham, and a fine man too.
He insisted on giving Brigham the story in full, and demanded that he should go in person and
see to the matter. But Brigham was immovable.

Things stood this way until Emeline, one of Brigham's wives, took the matter to heart, and
begged him to look into the affair. She asked him to bring her to my house, to visit her sister
Louisa, then one of my wives. He came, but said little of the trouble, and soon left.

Two days afterwards I wrote Brigham a kind letter, and invited him to come to my house and
eat a turkey dinner with me. I sent this by Brother Stewart. He met Brigham on his way to my
house and gave him my letter. I did not expect he would come to see me, but he was there. He
treated me most kindly. When supper time came he said to one of my wives:

"Sister, I have come for a bowl of good milk, but skim the cream off."

"We have no milk," she replied.

"How is that?" said he. "I thought Brother John always had milk." I then told him that the
Danites had my cows in the pound.

"What on earth are they doing with your cows?" he asked.

Then I told him the whole story in a few words. He scarcely waited to hear me, but called to
his carriage driver, Grant, and said:

"Come, George, I will go and see about this matter."

He soon returned, saying:

"Your cows will presently be here."

Brigham then asked me where my turkey was. I told him Kennedy had robbed me of all my turkeys,
but perhaps I could borrow one from him. I then sent Brother Gully to ask Kennedy to loan me
a couple of fat turkey's; that I had Brigham at my house and wanted them for his supper. He
sent word that Brigham was welcome to all the turkeys he wanted, at his house. I then told
Brigham I would go hunting and get him a nice one for dinner the next day. I went out that
night with Gully and hunted some time, but the snow was a foot deep or more, and a crust had
frozen, so that it was difficult hunting. At last we found a large flock of turkeys at roost
in the tall Cottonwood timber. I shot two by starlight; one fell in the river, and we lost
it, but the other fell dead at the roots of the tree. This was a large and fat turkey. I considered
that it would do, and we returned home with it. We had been gone only a little over an hour.

Brigham stayed at my house. We sat by the fire and talked until midnight. I unbosomed myself
to him. I told him of my ill treatment, and asked if I had failed in any respect to perform
the duties of the mission he gave me before starting with the pioneers across the plains. I
told him of the great crop we had raised; that we had it in abundance to feed the poor and
for every purpose; so much, in fact, that there was no sale for it. He said:

"You have done well, and you shall be blessed for it."

To this I replied that I hoped my blessings would be different from those I had been receiving.
He replied:

"Jesus has said, In this world you shall have tribulation, but in Me you shall have peace -
that is, if you bear these things patiently, without murmuring."

CHAPTER XVIII - THE DANITE AND HIS DUTY

While my mind is running in that direction let me tell of certain of the doings of the Danites.
These stories I relate will illustrate the purpose and uses of the Danite in the work of the
Mormon Church, and show how the sword of Gideon was wielded in cases smaller than the affair
at Mountain Meadows, still to be written down. What follows are instances of thousands of like
kind.

In the fall of 1859 two young men on their way to California stopped at the Santa Clara fort
to recruit their jaded animals. Expecting that while doing so they might be so fortunate as
to meet with a train of people going to the same place, and have company to San Bernardino,
the young men stayed at the fort over two months. Hamblin, one of the Danites, assured them
that they could go alone through the country with perfect safety. At the same time he had his
plans laid to take their lives as soon as they started. This was by direction of the Mormon
leaders. The Indians around the fort wanted to kill the men at once, but Hamblin objected,
and told the Indians to wait until the men got out in the desert.

At last these young men started from the fort. Hamblin told the Indians that the right time
had come, and wanted the Indians to ambush themselves at a point agreed on near the desert,
where the men could be safely killed. The Indians obeyed Hamblin's orders, and as the men approached
the place of ambush fired upon them, killing one of the men. The other returned the fire, and
shot one of Hamblin's pet Indians through the hand; this Indian's name was Queets, which means
left-handed. By wounding this Indian he managed to escape, with the loss of the pack animals,
provisions, and the riding animal of his partner, who lay dead upon the desert. The survivor
stayed with Mr. Judd for a few days, when a company of emigrants came that way, and, departing
with them, he succeeded in making his escape from the death that Hamblin still planned for him.

One day, this was in 1857, an emigrant train was passing through the Mormon settlements. Hamblin,
the Danite at Santa Clara, made arrangements with Nephi Johnson, who was to act as their guide,
how and where to relieve this company of the large herd of stock that belonged to the train.
They had a number of horses and cattle, more than five hundred head in all. Several Indian
interpreters were sent ahead of the train. One of these was Ira Hatch, a Danite. They were
ordered by Hamblin to prepare the Indians for a raid upon the stock.

About 10 o'clock, a. m., just after the train had crossed the Muddy, and was a few miles beyond
it on the desert, at the time and place settled on by Hamblin, over one hundred Indians made
a dash on the train and drove off all the stock to the Muddy.

The emigrants fired at the Indians, but Nephi Johnson their guide, rushed out and told them
that if they valued their own lives they must not fire again, for if they did he could not
protect them from the cruelty of the savages - that the Indians would return and massacre them.

The acting of Johnson and the other Danites who were with him was so good that after a consultation
the emigrants decided to follow his advice. The conclusion was that, as Johnson was friendly
with the Indians, and could talk their language, he should go and see the Indians and try and
get the stock back.

The emigrants waited in the desert, and Johnson went to the Indians, or pretended to do so.
After a few hours he returned, and reported that the Indians were hostile, and threatened to
attack the train at once; that he was afraid he could not prevent it, and the only chance for
the emigrants lay in their instant departure; that while the emigrants were gaining a place
of safety he would, at the risk of his life, make an effort to keep the Indians back and pacify
them. Also that he would report to Hamblin as soon as possible, and raise a force of men at
the fort and get back the stock, if it could be done, and write to the company, giving an account
of his success. They were to get his letter at San Bernardino, and if he recovered the stock
the emigrants could send back a party to receive it and drive it to California.

Under the circumstances the company adopted his plan, and he left them on the desert, with
all their stock gone; but the danger was over, for the stock was what Hamblin and Johnson had
been working for.

Johnson returned and ordered the Indians to drive the stock to the Clara. The Indians acted
like good Mormons, and obeyed orders. Hamblin gave them a few head of cattle for their services
in aiding him to capture the drove. The remainder of the cattle and horses Hamblin took charge
of for the benefit of the Mission. As the cattle became fat enough for beef, they were sold
or butchered for the use of the settlers. Some were traded to nearby settlements for sheep
and other articles.

In the winter of 1857-8 John Weston, a Danite, took an Irishman who had been stopping with
him as his guest on a hunt, and when he got him to the brush and timber four miles west of
Cedar City he cut his throat and left the body unburied. He had received orders to kill the
man, because Brother Haight considered him a spy.

Near the same time Philip Klingensmith, a Danite, laid in ambush to kill Robert Keyes (now
a resident of Beaver City, Utah Territory), while Keyes was irrigating his field. Klingensmith
decided to kill Keyes because Keyes refused to give testimony when requested to do so by Klingensmith,
who was then a bishop of the Church. When Keyes came within a few feet of his hiding place
Klingensmith raised his gun and took aim at Keyes' heart; but the cap burst without exploding
the powder, and Keyes escaped.

After the Mountain Meadows massacre Haight reported that I was the big captain who had planned,
led, and executed it; that the honor of such a deed for avenging of the blood of the Prophets
would lead to honor, immortality, and eternal life in the Kingdom of God. In this way it became
a settled fact that I was the leader in that affair. Year by year the story has gained ground
and strength, until I am now held responsible, and am to die, to save the Church.

As I have stated in other places in my writings, the people in Utah who professed the Mormon
religion were at and for some time before the Mountain Meadows massacre full of wildfire and
zeal, anxious to do something to build up the Kingdom of God on earth and waste the enemies
of the Mormon religion. At that time it was a common thing for small bands of people on their
way from California to pass through Cedar City. Many of these people were killed. When a Gentile
came into a town he was looked upon with suspicion, and most of the people considered every
stranger a spy from the United States army. The killing of Gentiles was a means of grace and
a virtuous deed. I remember an affair that took place at the old distillery in Cedar City,
just before the massacre.

Three men came to Cedar City one evening; they were poor, and much worn by their long journey.
They were on their way to California. The authorities believed they were dangerous men; that
they were spies from Johnston's army; and ordered the Danites to devise a plan to put them
out of the way decently and in order.

That the will of God might be done, these men were coaxed to go to the old distillery and take
a drink. They went in company with Danites John M. Higbee, John Weston, James Haslem, and Wm.
C. Stewart, and another man, whose name I have forgotten. The party drank considerable, and
when the emigrants got under the influence of the whisky the brethren attacked them and knocked
the brains out of two with the kingbolt of a wagon. The third man was powerful and muscular;
he fought valiantly for his life, but after a struggle he was overcome and killed. They were
buried near Cedar City.

Some time in the fall of 1857, not long after the Mountain Meadows massacre, it was decided
by the authorities at Salt Lake City that Lieut. Tobin must be killed. Tobin had left a train
in Salt Lake, joined the Church there, and afterwards married a daughter of Brother Charles
C. Rich, one of the twelve apostles. Tobin was a smart man, and soon after his marriage he
was sent to England on a mission.

While preaching in England, it was reported that he had committed adultery, and he was ordered
home. On his arrival in Salt Lake he was cut off from the Church, and his wife taken from him
by order of Brigham. He made several efforts to get out of the Territory.

Finally he joined a company and left Salt Lake, intending to go to California. After he had
been gone a few days the Destroying Angels were put on his trail, with orders to kill him before
they returned.

Two desperate Danites were selected, who knew nothing but to obey orders: Joel White and John
Willis were the Danites. They started on the trail, determined to kill Tobin when they found him.

White and Willis overtook the company that Tobin was traveling with at a point near the crossing
of the Magottsey. They found where he was sleeping, and, going to him as he lay on the ground
rolled up in his blanket, they shot him several times. Although thinking him dead, they concluded
to shoot him once more to make certain that he would not escape, so they put a pistol against
his eye and fired; the ball put out his eye, but did not kill him. The Angels made their escape
and returned to Salt Lake City, and reported that their orders were obeyed. Severely wounded
as he was, Tobin recovered, and was, when I last heard from him, in the Union army.

At Parowan, in 1855 or 1856, there was a man by the name of Robert Gillespie. He was a member
of the Church, had one wife, and owned a fine property. Gillespie wanted to be sealed to his
sister-in-law, but for some reason his request was denied. He had known of others obtaining
wives by committing adultery and then being sealed to avoid scandal. So he tried it, and went
to Apostle Smith, and again asked to be sealed to the woman. But Brother Smith refused to seal
him or let him be sealed, giving as his reason for refusing, that Gillespie had exercised the
rights of sealing without first obtaining orders to do so. A warrant was issued and Gillespie
was arrested and placed under guard; he was also sued in the Probate Court, before James Lewis,
Probate Judge, and a heavy judgment rendered against him, and all of his property was sold
to pay the fine and costs. The money was put into the Church fund and Gillespie was broken up.

The fate of old man Braffett, of Parowan, was a peculiar one, and, as it afterwards led me
into trouble, I will give the story briefly. Old man Braffett lived at Parowan, and in the
fall of 1855 a man by the name of Woodward came to Braffett's house and stopped to recruit
his teams before crossing the deserts. Woodward had two wives. He had lived in Nauvoo, and
while there had been architect for the Nauvoo House. While Woodward and his family were stopping
with Braffett, one of his wives concluded that she would be damned if she went to live in California,
- leaving the land of the Saints, - and she asked to be divorced from Woodward and sealed to
Braffett.

At first Braffett refused to take her, but she was a likely woman. She made love to the old
man in earnest. Mrs. Braffett made a fuss about it. The authorities were informed of Braffett's
transgressions, and he was arrested and taken before the Probate Judge and tried for the sin.
He made a bill of sale of some of his property to me, for which I paid him before his trial.

After hearing the case, the Probate Judge fined him one thousand dollars, and ordered him to
be imprisoned until fine and costs were paid. Ezra Curtis, the then marshal at Parowan, took
all of Braffett's property that could be found and sold it for the purpose of paying the fine;
but the large amount of property which was taken was sold for a small sum, for the brethren
will not bid much for property taken from one who has broken his covenants.

Being unable to pay the fine, the old man was ordered to be taken to Salt Lake City, to be
imprisoned in the prison there. I was selected to take him to Salt Lake. I took the old man
there, and, after many days spent in working with Brigham, I succeeded in securing a pardon
for him.

Braffett was put to work at Salt Lake by Brigham. He dared not return home at that time. His
property was gone, and he was ruined. The part I took to befriend the old man made several
of the brethren at Parowan angry with me, and they swore they would have revenge against me
for interfering where I was not interested.

After Braffett's pardon I stayed in Salt Lake some time, and when I started home there were
quite a number of people along. All the teams were heavily loaded; the roads were bad, and
our teams weak. We all had to walk much of the time. After we had passed the Severe River the
road was very bad. My team was the best in the whole company, and I frequently let some of
the women who were in the party ride in my wagon.

One evening, just about dark, I was asked by a young woman named Alexander to let her ride,
as she was very tired walking. I had her get into the wagon with my wife Rachel, and she rode
there until we camped for the night. I got into the wagon after dark and drove the team. We
had ridden in this way an hour or so, when Rachel said she was going to ride a while in the
next wagon, which was driven by son-in-law Dalton.

Soon after Rachel got out of the wagon a couple of my enemies rode by. I spoke to them, and
they rode on. As soon as these men reached the camp they reported that I had been taking privileges
with Sister Alexander. I was told to consider myself under arrest, and that when we reached
Parowan I would be tried by the Council for violating my covenants. I was surprised and grieved
at the charge, for I was innocent, and the young woman was a virtuous woman. As God is soon
to judge me, I declare that I never knew of her committing any sin.

When we reached Parowan there was a meeting called by the Priesthood to try me. This Council
was composed of the President of that Stake of Zion and his two Counselors, the High Council,
and the leading men of Parowan. It was a general meeting of the authorities, Church and civil.

The meeting was held in a chamber that was used for a prayer circle. It was called a circle
room, because the people met there to hold prayer in a circle, which was done in this way:
All the brethren would kneel in a circle around the room, near enough to each other for their
arms to touch, so that the influence would be more powerful.

When the meeting was called to order, all the lights were put out; and I was taken into the
darkened room and placed on trial. I could not see my hand before my face. The charge was stated
to me and I was ordered to confess my guilt. I told them I was innocent; that I had committed
no crime - in fact, had not thought of wrong. I told the truth, just as it was. I was then
ordered to stand one side.

The young woman was then brought into the room, and as she came in a pistol was placed to my
head and I was told to keep silent. She was questioned and threatened at length, but not all
the threats they could use would induce her to tell a falsehood. She insisted that I was entirely
innocent.

Next her father, an old man, was introduced and questioned. He told the Council that he had
diligently inquired into the matter, and believed I was innocent. Neither the young woman nor
her father knew who was in the room. All they knew was that they were being examined before
the secret tribunal of Utah, and that a false oath in that place would insure their death.

