If we have not as much to offer in immediate return, we have, at least, a broad expanse of
uncovered acres within the city, for the easy occupation of those who wish homes, either modest
or splendid, or who shall wish such as the growth of the metropolis multiplies its population
into the millions, crowds its roofs higher toward the stars, and makes a productive silver
mine of each several house-lot. And to those who visit us but at intervals we can open not
only yonder park, set like an emerald in the great circular sweep of our boundaries from the
waters of the Narrows to the waters of the Sound, but also their readiest approach to the ocean.
The capital and the sea are henceforth brought to nearer neighborhood. Long Island bays, and
brooks, and beaches, are within readier reach of the town. The winds that have touched no other
land this side of Cuba are more accessible to those who seek their tonic breath. The long roll
of the surf on the shore breaks closer than before to office and mansion, and to tenement chamber.

The benefits will, therefore, be reciprocal, which pass back and forth across this solid and
stately frame-work; and both cities will rejoice, we gladly hope, in the patience and labor,
the disciplined skill, the large expenditure, of which it is the trophy and fruit. New York
has now the unique opportunity to widen its boundaries to the sea, and around its brilliant
civic shield, more stately and manifold than that of Achilles, by the aid of those who have
wrought already these twisted bracelets and clasping cables, to set the glowing margin of the
Ocean-stream.

This work is important, too, we cannot but feel, in wider relations; for what it signifies,
as for what it secures, and for all that it promises. Itself a representative product and part
of the new civilization, one standing on it finds an outlook from it of larger circumference
than that of these cities.

Every enterprise like this, successfully accomplished, becomes an incentive to others like
it. It leads on to such, and supplies incessant encouragement to them. We may not know, or
probably conjecture, what these are to be, in the city or the State, in the years that shall
come. But, whatever they may be, for the more complete equipment of either with conditions
of happiness and the instruments of progress, they will all take an impulse from that which
here has been accomplished. Such a trophy of triumph over an original obstacle of Nature will
not contribute to sleep in others; and whatever is needed of material improvement, throughout
the State of which it is our pride to be citizens, will be only more surely and speedily supplied
because of this impressive success.

It is, therefore, most fitting to our festival that we are permitted to welcome to it the Chief
Magistrate of the State, with those representing its different regions in the legislative councils.
We rejoice to remember that the work before us has been assisted by the favoring action of
those heretofore in authority in the State; and we trust that to those now holding high offices
in it, who are present to-day, the occasion will be one of pleasant experience, and of enlarged
and reinforced expectation.

Indeed, it is not extravagant to say that the future of the country opens before us, as we
see what skill and will can do to overleap obstacles, and make nature subservient to human
designs. So we gladly welcome these eminent men from other States; while the presence of the
Executive Head of the Nation, and of some of the members of his Cabinet, is appropriate to
the time, as it is an occasion of sincere and profound gratification to us all. Without the
concurrence of the National Government, this structure, though primarily of local relations,
as reaching across these navigable waters, could not have been built. We feel assured that
those honorably representing that Government, who favor its completion with their attendance,
and in whose presence political differences are forgotten, will share with us in the joyful
pride with which we regard it, and in the inspiring anticipation that the physical apparatus
of civilization in the land is to take fresh impulse, not impediment or hindrance, from that
which here has been effected. The day seems brought distinctly nearer when the Nation, equipped
with the latest implements furnished by science, shall master and use as never before its rich
domain.

Not only the modern spirit is here, even in eminence, which dares great effort for great advantage;
but the chiefest of modern instruments is here, which is the ancient untractable iron, transfigured
into steel.

It was a sign, and even a measure, of ancient degeneracy, when the age of Gold was followed
if not forgotten by one of Iron. Decadence of arts, of learning and laws, of society itself,
was implied in the fact. The more intrepid intelligence, the more versatile energy, amid which
we live, have achieved the success of combining the two: so that while it is true now, as of
old, that "no mattock plunges a golden edge into the ground, and no nail drives a silver point
into the plank," it is also true that, under the stimulus of the larger expenditure which the
added supplies of gold make possible, the duller metal has taken a fineness, a brightness and
hardness, with a tensile strength, before unfamiliar.

The iron, as of old, quarries the gold, and cuts it out from river-bed and from rock. But,
under the alchemy which gold applies, the iron takes nobler properties upon it. Converted into
steel, in masses that would lately have staggered men's thoughts, it becomes the kingliest
instrument of peoples for subduing the earth. Things dainty and things mighty are fashioned
from it in equal abundance:--gun-carriage and cannon, with the solid platforms on which they
rest; the largest castings, and heaviest plates, as well as wheel, axle, and rail, as well
as screw or file or saw. It is shaped into the hulls of ships. It is built alike into column
and truss, balcony, roof, and springing dome. To the loom and the press, and the boiler from
whose fierce and untiring heart their force is supplied, it is equally apt; while, as drawn
into delicate wires, it is coiled into springs, woven into gauze, sharpened into needles, twisted
into ropes; it is made to yield music in all our homes; electric currents are sent upon it,
along our streets, around the world; it enables us to talk with correspondents afar, or it
is knit, as before our eyes, into the new and noble causeways of pleasure and of commerce.

I hardly think that we yet appreciate the significance of this change which has passed upon
iron. It is the industrial victory of the century, not to have heaped the extracted gold in
higher piles, or to have crowded the bursting vaults with accumulated silver, but to have conferred,
by the sovereign touch of scientific invention, flexibility, grace, variety of use, an almost
ethereal and spiritual virtue, on the stubbornest of common metals. The indications of physical
achievement in the future, thus inaugurated, outrun the compass of human thought.

Two bridges lie near each other, across the historical stream of the Moldau, under the shadow
of the ancient and haughty palace at Prague--the one the picturesque bridge of St. Nepomuk,
patron of bridges throughout Bohemia, of massive stone, which occupied a century and a half
in its erection, and was finished almost four centuries ago, with stately statues along its
sides, with a superb monument at its end, sustaining symbolic and portrait figures; the other
an iron suspension-bridge, built and finished in three years, a half century since, and singularly
contrasting, in its lightness and grace, the sombre solidity of the first. It is impossible
to look upon the two without feeling how distinctly the different ages to which they belong
are indicated by them, and how the ceremonial and military character of the centuries that
are past has been superseded by the rapid and practical spirit of commerce.

But the modern bridge is there a small one, and rests at the centre on an island and a pier.
The structure before us, the largest of its class as yet in the world, in its swifter, more
graceful, and more daring leap from bank to bank, across the tides of this arm of the sea,
not only illustrates the bolder temper which is natural here, the readiness to attempt unparalleled
works, the disdain of difficulties in unfaltering reliance on exact calculation, but, in the
material out of which it is wrought, it shows the new supremacy of man over the metal which,
in former time, he scarcely could use save for rude and coarse implements. The steel of the
blades of Damascus or Toledo is not here needed; nor that of the chisel, the knife-blade, the
watch-spring, or the surgical instrument. But the steel of the mediæval lance-head or sabre
was hardly finer than that which is here built into a Castle, which the sea cannot shake, whose
binding cement the rains cannot loosen, and before whose undecaying parapets open fairer visions
of island and town, of earth, water, and sky, than from any fortress along the Rhine. There
is inexhaustible promise in the fact.

Of course, too, there is impressively before us--installed as on this fair and brilliant civic
throne--that desire for swiftest intercommunication between towns and districts divided from
each other, which belongs to our times, and which is to be an energetic, enduring, and salutary
force in moulding the nation.

The years are not distant in which separated communities regarded each other with aversion
and distrust, and the effort was mutual to raise barriers between them, not to unite them in
closer alliance. Now, the traffic of one is vitally dependent on the industries of the other;
the counting-room in the one has the factory or the warehouse tributary to it established in
the other; and the demand is imperative that the two be linked, by all possible mechanisms,
in a union as complete as if no chasm had opened between them. So these cities are henceforth
united; and so all cities, which may minister to each other, are bound more and more in intimate
combinations. Santa Fé, which soon celebrates the third of a millenium since its foundation,
reaches out its connections toward the newest log-city in Washington Territory; and the oldest
towns upon our seaboard find allies in those that have risen, like exhalations, along the Western
lakes and rivers.

This mighty and symmetrical band before us seems to stand as the type of all that immeasurable
communicating system which is more completely with every year to interlink cities, to confederate
States, to make one country of our distributed imperial domain, and to weave its history into
a vast, harmonious contexture, as messages fly instantaneously across it, and the rapid trains
rush back and forth, like shuttles upon a mighty loom.

It is not fanciful, either, to feel that in all its history, and in what is peculiar in its
constitution, it becomes a noble, visible symbol of that benign Peace amid which its towers
and roadway have risen, and which, we trust, it may long continue to signalize and to share.

We may look at this moment on the site of the ship-yard from which, in March, 1862, twenty-one
years ago, went forth the unmasted and raft-like "Monitor," with its flat decks, its low bulwarks,
its guarded mechanism, its heavy armament, and its impenetrable revolving turret, to that near
battle with the "Merrimac," on which, as it seemed to us at the time, the destiny of the nation
was perilously poised. The material of which the ship was wrought was largely that which is
built in beauty into this luxurious lofty fabric. But no contrast could be greater among the
works of human genius than between the compact and rigid solidity into which the iron had there
been forged and wedged and rammed, and these waving and graceful curves, swinging downward
and up, almost like blossoming festooned vines along the perfumed Italian lanes; this alluring
roadway, resting on towers which rise like those of ancient cathedrals; this lace-work of threads,
interweaving their separate delicate strengths into the complex solidity of the whole.

The ship was for war, and the Bridge is for peace:--the product of it; almost, one might say,
its express palpable emblem, in its harmony of proportions, its dainty elegance, its advantages
for all, and its ample convenience. The deadly raft, floating level with waves, was related
to this ethereal structure, whose finest curves are wrought in the strength of toughest steel.
We could not have had this except for that unsightly craft, which at first refused to be steered,
which bumped headlong against our piers, which almost sank while being towed to the field of
its fame, and which, at last, when its mission was fulfilled, found its grave in the deep over
whose waters, and near their line, its shattering lightnings had been shot. This structure
will stand, we fondly trust, for generations to come, even for centuries, while metal and granite
retain their coherence; not only emitting, when the wind surges or plays through its network,
that aerial music of which it is the mighty harp, but representing to every eye the manifold
bonds of interest and affection, of sympathy and purpose, of common political faith and hope,
over and from whose mightier chords shall rise the living and unmatched harmonies of continental
gladness and praise.

While no man, therefore, can measure in thought the vast processions--40,000,000 a year, it
already is computed--which shall pass back and forth across this pathway, or shall pause on
its summit to survey the vast and bright panorama, to greet the break of summer-morning, or
watch the pageant of closing day, we may hope that the one use to which it never will need
to be put is that of war; that the one tramp not to be heard on it is that of soldiers marching
to battle; that the only wheels whose roll it shall not be called to echo are the wheels of
the tumbrils of troops and artillery. Born of peace, and signifying peace, may its mission
of peace be uninterrupted, till its strong towers and cables fall!

If such expectations shall be fulfilled, of mechanical invention ever advancing, of cities
and States linked more closely, of beneficent peace assured to all, it is impossible to assign
any limit to the coming expansion and opulence of these cities, or to the influence which they
shall exert on the developing life of the country.

Cities have often, in other times, been created by war; as men were crowded together in them
the better to escape the whirls of strife by which the unwalled districts were ravaged, or
the more effectively to combine their force against threatening foes. And it is a striking
suggestion of history that to the frightful ravages of the Huns--swarthy, ill-shaped, ferocious,
destroying--may have been due the Great Wall of China, for the protection of its remote towns,
as to them, on the other hand, was certainly due the foundation of Venice. The first inhabitants
of what has been since that queenly city--along whose liquid and level streets the traveler
passes, between palaces, churches, and fascinating squares, in constant delight--its first
inhabitants fled before Attila, to the flooded lagoons which were afterward to blossom into
the beauty of a consummate art. The fearful crash of blood and fire in which Aquileia and Padua
fell smote Venice into existence.

But even the city thus born of war must afterward be built up by peace, when the strifes which
had pushed it to its sudden beginning had died into the distant silence. The fishing industry,
the manufacture of salt, the timid commerce, gradually expanding till it left the rivers and
sought the sea, these, with other related industries, had made Venetian galleys known on the
eastern Mediterranean before the immense rush of the crusades crowded tumultuously over its
quays and many bridges. Its variety of industry, and its commercial connections, turned that
vast movement into another source of wealth. It rose rapidly to that naval supremacy which
enabled it to capture piratical vessels and wealthy galleons, to seize or sack Ionian cities,
to storm Byzantium, and make the south of Greece its suburb. Its manufactures were multiplied.
Its dockyards were thronged with busy workmen. Its palaces were crowded with precious and famous
works of art, while themselves marvels of beauty. St. Mark's unfolded its magnificent loveliness
above the great square. In the palace adjoining was the seat of a dominion at the time unsurpassed,
and still brilliant in history; and it was in no fanciful or exaggerated pride that the Doge
was wont yearly, on Ascension Day, to wed the Adriatic with a ring, as the bridegroom weds
the bride.

Dreamlike as it seems, equally with Amsterdam, the larger and richer "Venice of the North,"
it was erected by hardy hands. The various works and arts of peace, with a prosperous commerce,
were the real piles, sunken beneath the flashing surface, on which church and palace, piazza
and arsenal, all arose. It was only when these unseen supports secretly failed that advancement
ceased, and the horses of St. Mark at last were bridled. Not all the wars, with Genoa, Hungary,
with Western Europe, the Greek Empire, or the Ottoman--not earthquake, plague, or conflagration,
though by all it was smitten--overwhelmed the city whose place in Europe had been so distinguished.
The decadence of enterprise, the growing discredit put upon industry, the final discovery by
Vasco da Gama of the passage around the Cape of Good Hope, diverting traffic into new channels--these
laid their silent and tightening grasp on the power of Venice, till

                       "the salt sea-weed
     Clung to the marble of her palaces,"

and the glory of the past was merged in a gloom which later centuries have not lightened. There
is a lesson and a promise in the fact.

New York itself may almost be said to have sprung from war; as the vast excitements of the
forty years' wrestle between Spain and its revolted provinces gave incentive, at least, to
the settlement of New Netherland. But the city, since its real development was begun, has been
almost wholly built up by peace; and the swiftness of its progress in our own time, which challenges
parallel, shows what, if the ministry of this peace shall continue, may be looked for in the
future.

When the Dutch traders raised their storehouse of logs on yonder untamed and desolate strand,
perhaps as early as 1615; when the Walloons established their settlement on this side of the
river, in 1624, at that "Walloons' Bay" which we still call the Wallabout; or when, later,
in 1626, Manhattan Island, estimated to contain 22,000 acres, was purchased from the Indians
for $24, paid in beads, buttons and trinkets, and the Block House was built, with cedar palisades,
on the site of the Battery, it is, of course, commonplace to say that they who had come hither
could scarcely have had the least conception of what a career they thus were commencing for
two great cities. But it is not so wholly commonplace to say that those who saw this now wealthy
and splendid New York a hundred years since, less conspicuous than Boston, far smaller than
Philadelphia, with its first bank established in 1784, and not fully chartered till seven years
later; with its first daily paper in 1785; its first ship in the Eastern trade returning in
May of the same year; its first Directory published in 1786, and containing only 900 names;
its Broadway extending only to St. Paul's; with the grounds about Reade street grazing-fields
for cattle, and with ducks still shot in that Beekman's Swamp which the traffic in leather
has since made famous: or those who saw it even fifty years ago, when its population was little
more than one-third of the present population of this younger city; when its first Mayor had
not been chosen by popular election; when gas had but lately been introduced, and the superseding
of the primitive pumps by Croton water had not yet been projected--they, all, could hardly
have imagined what already the city should have become: the recognized centre of the commerce
of the Continent; one of the principal cities of the world.

So those who have lived in this city from childhood, and who hardly yet claim the dignities
of age, could scarcely have conjectured, when looking on what Mr. Murphy recalled as the village
of his youth, "a hamlet of a hundred houses," that it should have become, in our time, a city
of nearly 70,000 dwelling houses, occupied by twice as many families; with a population, by
the census rates, of little less than 700,000; with more than 150,000 children in its public
and private schools; with 330 miles of paved streets, as many as last year in New York, and
with more than 200 additional miles impatiently waiting to be paved; with 130 miles of street
railway track, over which last year 88,000,000 of passengers were carried; with nearly 2,500
miles of telegraph and telephone wire knitting it together; with 35,000,000 of gallons of water,
the best on the continent, to which 20,000,000 more are soon to be added, daily distributed
in its houses, through 360 miles of pipe; with an aggregate value of real property exceeding
certainly $400,000,000; with an annual tax levy of $6,500,000; with manufactures in it whose
reported product in 1880 was $103,000,000; with a water-front, of pier, dock, basin, canal,
already exceeding 25 miles, and not as yet half developed, at which lies shipping from all
the world, more largely than at the piers of New York; and, finally, with what to most modern
communities appears to flash as a costly but brilliant diamond necklace, a public debt, beginning
now to diminish, it is true, but still approaching, in net amount, $37,500,000!

The child watches, in happy wonder, the swelling film of soapy water into whose iridescent
globe he has blown the speck from the bowl of the pipe. But this amazing development around
us is not of airy and vanishing films. It is solidly constructed, in marble and brick, in stone
and iron, while the proportions to which it has swelled surpass precedent, and rebuke the timidity
of the boldest prediction. But that which has built it has been simply the industry, manifold,
constant, going on in these cities, to which peace offers incentive and room.

Their future advancement is to come in like manner: not through a prestige derived from their
history; not by the gradual increments of their wealth, already collected; not by the riches
which they invite to themselves from other cities and distant coasts; not even from their beautiful
fortune of location; but by prosperous manufactures prosecuted in them; by the traffic which
radiates over the country; by the foreign commerce which, in values increasing every year,
seeks this harbor. Each railway whose rapid wheels roll hither, from East or West, from North
or South, from the rocks of Newfoundland or the copper-deposits of Lake Superior, from the
orange groves of Florida, the Louisiana bayous, the silver ridges of the West, the Golden Gate,
gives its guaranty of growth to the still young metropolis. On the cotton fields of the South,
and its sugar plantations; on coal mines, and iron mines; on the lakes which winter roofs with
ice, and from which drips refreshing coolness through our summer; on fisheries, factories,
wheat fields, pine forests; on meadows wealthy with grains or grass, and orchards bending beneath
their burdens, this enlarging prosperity must be maintained; and on the steamships, and the
telegraph lines, which interweave us with all the world. The swart miner must do his part for
it; the ingenious workman, in whatever department; the ploughman in the field, and the fisherman
on the banks; the man of science, putting Nature to the question; the laborer, with no other
capital than his muscle; the sailor on the sea, wherever commerce opens its wings.

Our Arch of Triumph is, therefore, fitly this Bridge of Peace. Our Brandenburg Gate, bearing
on its summit no car of military victory, is this great work of industrial skill. It stands,
not, like the Arch famous at Milan, outside the city, but in the midst of these united and
busy populations. And if the tranquil public order which it celebrates and prefigures shall
continue as years proceed, not London itself, a century hence, will surpass the compass of
this united city by the sea, in which all civilized nations of mankind have already their many
representatives, and to which the world shall pay an increasing annual tribute.

And so the last suggestion comes, which the hour presents, and of which the time allows the
expression.

It was not to an American mind alone that we owed the "Monitor," of which I have spoken, but
also to one trained in Swedish schools, the Swedish army, and representing that brave nationality.
It is not to a native American mind that the scheme of construction carried out in this Bridge
is to be ascribed, but to one representing the German peoples, who, in such enriching and fruitful
multitudes, have found here their home. American enterprise, American money, built them both.
But the skill which devised, and much, no doubt, of the labor which wrought them, came from afar.

Local and particular as is the work, therefore, it represents that fellowship of the Nations
which is more and more prominently a fact of our times, and which gives to these cities incessant
augmentation. When, by and by, on yonder island the majestic French statue of Liberty shall
stand, holding in its hand the radiant crown of electric flames, and answering by them to those
as brilliant along this causeway, our beautiful bay will have taken what specially illuminates
and adorns it from Central and from Western Europe. The distant lands from which oceans divide
us, though we touch them each moment with the fingers of the telegraph, will have set this
conspicuous double crown on the head of our harbor. The alliances of nations, the peace of
the world, will seem to find illustrious prediction in such superb and novel regalia.

Friends, and Fellow-Citizens: Let us not forget that, in the growth of these cities, henceforth
united, and destined ere long to be formally one, lies either a threat, or one of the conspicuous
promises of the time.

Cities have always been powers in history. Athens educated Greece, as well as adorned it, while
Corinth filled the throbbing and thirsty Hellenic veins with poisoned blood. The weight of
Constantinople broke the Roman Empire asunder. The capture of the same magnificent city gave
to the Turks their establishment in Europe for the following centuries. Even where they have
not had such a commanding pre-eminence of location, the social, political, moral force proceeding
from cities has been vigorous in impression, immense in extent. The passion of Paris, for a
hundred years, has created or directed the sentiment of France. Berlin is more than the legislative
or administrative centre of the German Empire. Even a government as autocratic as that of the
Czar, in a country as undeveloped as Russia, has to consult the popular feeling of St. Petersburg
or of Moscow.

In our nation, political power is widely distributed, and the largest or wealthiest commercial
centre can have but its share. Great as is the weight of the aggregate vote in these henceforth
compacted cities, the vote of the State will always overbear it. Amid the suffrages of the
nation at large, it can only be reckoned as one of many consenting or conflicting factors.
But the influence which constantly proceeds from these cities--on their journalism, not only,
or on the issues of their book-presses, or on the multitudes going forth from them, but on
the example presented by them of intellectual, social, religious life--this, for shadow and
check, or for fine inspiration, is already of unlimited extent, of incalculable force. It must
increase as they expand, and are lifted before the country to a new elevation.

A larger and a smaller sun are sometimes associated, astronomers tell us, to form a binary
centre in the heavens, for what is, doubtless, an unseen system receiving from them impulse
and light. On a scale not utterly insignificant, a parallel may be hereafter suggested in the
relation of these combined cities to a part, at least, of our national system. Their attitude
and action during the war--successfully closed under the gallant military leadership of men
whom we gladly welcome and honor--were of vast advantage to the national cause. The moral,
political, intellectual temper, which dominates in them, as years go on, will touch with beauty,
or scar with scorching and baleful heats, extended regions. Their religious life, as it glows
in intensity, or with a faint and failing lustre, will be repeated in answering image from
the widening frontier. The beneficence which gives them grace and consecration, and which,
as lately, they follow to the grave with universal benediction, or, on the other hand, the
selfish ambitions which crowd and crush along their streets, intent only on accumulated wealth
and its sumptuous display, or the glittering vices which they accept and set on high--these
will make their impression on those who never cross the continent to our homes, to whom our
journals are but names.

Surely, we should not go from this hour, which marks a new era in the history of these cities,
and which points to their future indefinite expansion, without the purpose in each of us, that,
so far forth as in us lies, with their increase in numbers, wealth, equipment, shall also proceed,
with equal step, their progress in whatever is noblest and best in private and in public life;
that all which sets humanity forward shall come in them to ampler endowment, more renowned
exhibition: so that, linked together, as hereafter they must be, and seeing "the purple deepening
in their robes of power," they may be always increasingly conscious of fulfilled obligation
to the Nation and to God; may make the land, at whose magnificent gateway they stand, their
constant debtor; and may contribute their mighty part toward that ultimate perfect Human Society
for which the seer could find no image so meet or so majestic as that of a City, coming down
from above, its stones laid with fair colors, its foundations with sapphires, its windows of
agates, its gates of carbuncles, and all its borders of pleasant stones, with the sovereign
promise resplendent above it,--

     "And great shall be the Peace of thy children!"