PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 158.

February 4th, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

A rumour is going about that martial law may be declared in Ireland at any moment. By which
of the armies of occupation does not seem clear.

* * *

To make money, says a London magistrate, one must work hard. This is a great improvement on
the present method of entering a post-office and helping yourself.

* * *

Cat skins are advertised for in Essex. A suburban resident writes to say he has a few brace
on his garden wall each night, if the advertiser is prepared to entice the cats from inside them.

* * *

Much alarm has been caused in foreign countries by the report that British scientists are experimenting
with a machine that makes a noise like Lord FISHER.

* * *

According to a witness at a police court in London nearly two hundred people stood and watched
a fight between dockers in City Road last week. The way some people take advantage of Mr. COCHRAN'S
absence in America seems most unsportsmanlike.

* * *

Horse-radish from Germany is being sold in Manchester at six shillings a bundle. Even during
the War, thanks to the efforts of the local Press, the Mancunian has never wanted for his little
bit of German hot stuff.

* * *

Asked how old he was by the magistrate a railway-worker is said to have replied, "Thirty-nine
last strike."

* * *

The House of Representatives at Washington have offered one hundred thousand pounds to fight
the influenza germ. It is said that, if they will make it two hundred thousand, DEMPSEY'S manager
will consider it.

* * *

An American millionaire, says a gossip, has decided to stay at one London hotel for three months.
There was no need to tell us he was a millionaire.

* * *

A way is said to have been found for washing linen by electricity. In future patrons will have
to tear the button-holes themselves.

* * *

It is all very well asking Germany to hand over her war criminals, but the trouble is to find
enough innocent men to round them up.

* * *

The rumour current in France, to the effect that our PREMIER has been seen in London, is believed
by Parisians to have been spread by political rivals.

* * *

The Bolshevists recently deported from America were welcomed on the Finnish frontier by the
Red Army and eleven brass bands playing "The International." That ought to teach them to get
deported again.

* * *

A Thames bargee has summoned a colleague for throwing a huge piece of coal at him. Quite right
too. The coal might have fallen into the river.

* * *

One Scottish M.P., says a weekly paper, has not made a speech in the House of Commons for twenty
years. This is probably due to the fact that a Scotsman rarely butts in when a fellow-countryman
is speaking.

* * *

The so-called "pneumonia" blouse is conducive to health, declares the Medical Research Committee.
On the other hand the sunstroke cravat continues to prove fatal in a great number of cases.

* * *

A Swansea man who went to his allotment to dig up some parsnips and ended by taking three cabbages
from a neighbour's plot has been fined ten pounds. We approve of the sentence. A man who deliberately
associates with parsnips should be shown no mercy.

* * *

A news message states that passports enabling Mr. RAMSAY MACDONALD to proceed to Russia have
been refused. As a result we understand that the well-known Socialist has threatened to remain
in this country.

* * *

Greenwich Council has refused a war trophy, consisting of a hundred bayonets. It appears that
in those parts they still adhere to the fantastic theory that the chronometer won the War.

* * *

A novel idea is reported from a small town in Norfolk. It appears that at the annual fancy-dress
ball all the inhabitants clubbed together and went as a Brontosaurus.

* * *

The Hotel Métropole has now been vacated by the Government, and it is thought that, as soon
as the extra sleeping accommodation has been cleared away, it will be used as an hotel once again.

* * *

We understand there is no truth in the rumour that Mr. ALBERT DE COURVILLE has offered the
ex-Kaiser a leading part in his revue, Come Over Here.

* * *

A correspondent points out in The Daily Express that there are five Sundays in the present
month. We understand however that Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL is not to blame this time.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR CYNICS.

    "It is stated that the management of the Isle of Man Steam Packet Co.
    intend to change the name of the newly-acquired steamer Onward to
    something more in keeping with the traditions of the Company."--Ramsey
    Courier.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Serious complaint is being made at another recurrence of the failure
    of the electric light in ----. It is no light matter."--Local Paper.

It wouldn't be.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OF CERTAIN BRUTUSES WHO MISSED THEIR MARK.

["COALITION DOOMED."--Poster of "Evening News."

"COALITION DEATH SENTENCE."--"Times'" Headline on Mr. ASQUITH at Paisley.

"BLOW TO THE COALITION."--"Times'" Headline on Mr. BARNES'S resignation.]

  Have you heard of the coming of Nemesis,
    How she glides through the ambient gloom
  That envelops the Downing-Street premises
    Where GEORGE is awaiting his doom?
  For the hour of his utter discredit
    Has struck and the blighter must go
  If the Carmelite organs have said it
          It's bound to be so.

  The Cabinet's daily imbroglio
    Amounts to a permanent brawl;
  Mr. BARNES has resigned a portfolio
    Which never existed at all;
  It is true he was, anyhow, going,
    Yet it serves (in The Times) for a sign
  Of the symptoms, perceptibly growing,
          Of GEORGE'S decline.

  Mr. ASQUITH (of Paisley) endorses
    The sentence of violent death,
  Though he leaves him alternative courses
    For yielding his ultimate breath;
  He allows him an optional charter--
    To swing by his neck from a tree,
  Or to perish a piteous martyr
           To felo-de-se.

  And what of poor Damocles under
    This horror that hangs by a thread?
  Does he wilt in a palsy and wonder
    How soon it will sever his head?
  Are his lips and his cheeks of a blank hue?
    Does he toy with his victuals and drink?
  Not at all; on the contrary, thankyou,
          His health's in the pink.

  He'll be bashed to the semblance of suet,
    So say the familiars of Fate;
  But they don't tell us who is to do it
    Or mention the actual date;
  Though the lords of the Circus assure us
    His voice will be presently mute,
  Yet the victim, pronounced moriturus,
          Declines to salute.

  All colours, from purple to yellow,
    The oracles kill him in print,
  But he turns not a hair, for the fellow
    Is hopeless at taking a hint;
  Apparently free from suspicion
    And mindless of what it all means,
  He careers on the road to perdition,
          Ebullient with beans.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

"OUR INVINCIBLE NAVY."

In the article which appeared under the above title in the issue of Punch for January 14th,
the setting of the nautical episode, in which the subject of the story conducted himself with
so much aplomb and resourcefulness, was derived from a personal experience related to the author;
but Mr. Punch has his assurance that Reginald McTaggart was not intended even remotely to represent
any actual individual.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIS FUTURE.

PART I.--THE PROPOSAL, 1920.

"About this boy of ours, my dear," said Gerald.

"Well, what about it?" said Margaret. "He weighed fourteen pounds and an eighth this morning,
and he's only four months and ten days old, you know."

"Is he? I mean, does he? Splendid. But what I was going to say was this: in view of the present
social and economic disturbances and the price of coal and butter--"

"He doesn't need either of those yet, dear."

"--and the price of coal and butter, it behoves us, don't you think, to very seriously consider
(yes, I meant to split it)--to very seriously consider Nat's future?"

"Oh, I've been doing that for ever so long, Gerald. Probably in a year or two we shan't be
able to get even a general or a char, so I'm going to teach him all sorts of household jobs--as
a great treat, of course. Washing up the plates and dishes and laying fires--oh, and darning
as well. He must certainly mend his own socks, and yours too."

"Well, perhaps, if he has time. But I have a much better proposal to make than that. My idea
is that we should bring him up to be a miner."

"I thought children under twenty-one always were."

"Not minor, silly--miner."

"Well, what's the difference? Saying it twice doesn't help. And neither does shouting," she added.

Gerald wrote it down.

"Oh, I see. But why?"

"Because then he can earn enough money to keep us all comfortably--us in idle dependence at
Chelsea, him in idle independence at Merthyr-Tydfil or wherever one mines."

"He might send us diamonds now and then too. Or perhaps it isn't allowed."

"No, no. He'll be a coal-miner, naturally."

Margaret pondered this for some minutes.

"No, I don't think much of your idea," she said finally. "Very likely coal will have gone out
of fashion by then and we shall all be warming ourselves with Cape gooseberries or pine-kernels
or something. I think he ought to be taught all kinds of mining--diamond-mining, salt-mining,
gold-mining and undermining at Lloyd's. Then be could take up whatever was most profitable
at the moment."

"He has a busy youth ahead of him, I see. Have you thought of anything else?"

"Not at present. Don't you think, though, that this little talk of ours has been rather instructive,
Gerald? Shall we open a correspondence in The Literary Supplement on 'The Boy: What Will He
Become'?"

"Not quite the sort of thing for their readers, I should say."

"But surely some of them must be quite human. It isn't as if I'd said Notes and Queries. One
can't imagine the readers of that ever--"

"Listen!" said Gerald. "I think I hear--"

But Margaret had vanished. Nat's already pessimistic views on his future were being published
for the benefit of the Man in the Street.

PART II.--THE DISPOSAL, 1945.

The President and Committee of the British Lepidopterists' Association request the pleasure
of your company on January the 15th, at 5 P.M., when Mr. Nathaniel Prendergast will give an
illustrated address on The Haunts and Habits of the minor Copperwing, together with a few Notes
on Gnats.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Linen collars at 3s. 6d. each sounds incredible."--Daily News.

A bit stiff, no doubt.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SPORTING GOLF.

(With the British Army in France.)

"I noticed the old sapper instinct asserting itself in Mac when he tried to tunnel out of that
bunker at the seventh," said Denny after tea in the golf club-house. "He'd have found some
opportunities on a really sporting course like ours at Villers-Vereux. Remember Villers, Ponting?"

"It wasn't a golf links as I remember it," said Ponting grimly.

"Bless you, I'm not speaking of those far-away days. I'm talking of a month or two back, when
I was there with a Chinese Salvage Company trying to clear up the mess you made. Beastly quiet
it was, too. The only excitement was a playful habit the Chink had contracted of picking up
a rusty rifle and a salvaged clip of cartridges, pointing the gun anywhere and pulling the
trigger to make it say Bang! I often found myself doin' the old B.E.F. tummy-wriggle when the
Chinois was really happy.

"One Sunday--a non-working day--when all was drab and dreary and existence seemed a double-blank,
my orderly mentioned that he had discovered some old 'golfing bats' in one of the hutments.
Evidently they were the remains of the spoils of a lightning foray on the Base. A further search
revealed a couple of elliptical balls, quite good in places. So I tipped my cub, Laxey, out
of his bunk and we proceeded to resurrect our pre-war form. By-and-by we got adventurous, and
Laxey challenged me to play him a match after lunch for ten francs a side. The details required
some arranging, as there were no greens or holes, but eventually we decided on a cross-country
stroke competition, starting from the hut-door and finishing at a crump hole, map ref.: B 26c,
08,35.

"We tossed for clubs, and as I won I picked a driver and a hockey stick, leaving Laxey a brassie
and a putter head tied to a whangee cane that gave it plenty of whip. Laxey was spot, and broke
with a ten-yard drive. Then I teed up and drove with a good follow-through action that carried
me round several circles before I could stop.

"I did better the next time, and made my ball rather sorry that it had been making fun of me.
Laxey had a bad lie and, though he lofted his ball with the putter (as I said, the whangee
did give it 'whip'), he didn't clear the hutments. After he had cannoned off the roof of a
'Nissen' into the cook-house I took my turn, and to my disgust pulled into a trench that formed
part of our old support line.

"'Our ways lie apart now, old melon,' I said, 'and I should advise you to follow my example
and get your batman to keep the count. Otherwise your play will be affected by arithmetical
troubles.'

"Accompanied by my faithful Wilkins I found my ball and reviewed the situation. The driver
and hockey stick were hopeless for mashie shots, but Wilkins reported a practicable C.T. a
few yards to the right, leading to the front line, and some gently sloping revetting from thence
to the level. Luckily the C.T. had plenty of length to each traverse, and when I emerged in
the open with my sixty-seventh Laxey was only just getting clear of the huts, having been badly
bunkered in the coal dump. He made good progress from there, but I got into the rough--a regular
Gruyère of shell-holes. While I was attempting to hack my way through I heard a delighted gurgle
of laughter and turned round to see half-a-dozen of the Chinks sitting on their hams and watching
me with undisguised jubilation.

"'Send them away, Wilkins,' I said irritably. 'Can't you see they're putting me off my game?'

"Wilkins shoved them off, and I took the old German line with a rush. While I was so to speak
consolidating, a runner arrived from Laxey asking for the loan of a pair of wire-cutters.

"''E's 'ung up on the wire, Sir,' said the runner, 'an' cursing the artillery somethink awful
from force of 'abit.'

"I sent a pair of nail-scissors with my compliments, and would Mr. Laxey kindly inform me what
was his score to date? Laxey returned the scissors, saying that he found he could manage better
with a tie-clip, and his score at 15.30 hours was 346, please. Cheered by the knowledge that
I was a matter of twenty to the good, I executed a brilliant dribble along a ditch, neatly
tricked a couple of saplings and finished with a long spinning-jenny into a camouflaged strong
point. By this time Wilkins was in such a maze of mathematics that he hadn't time to scare
off the coolies, who were tumbling up in large numbers and giving a generous meed of applause.

"Towards the 400 Laxey, who also had a good gallery of Chinks, was losing touch, and I advised
him by runner to change direction. He thanked me, but said that, in view of the difficult nature
of the terrain, he had decided to work round from a flank. Feeling that I was nearing the objective
I organised a series of approach-shots with the driver, and sent to ask Laxey if he would care
to accept fifty start. However, having foozled into a ruined pillbox, I reduced the offer by
half, and later on, confident--not to say insulting--reports from Laxey induced me to withdraw
the concession altogether.

"At 16.30 hours precisely, amid intense excitement on the part of the Celestial audience, we
arrived at the deciding crump-hole simultaneously. When I say we arrived, I mean that Laxey
had an eight-yard putt from a good lie--an easy proposition with the whangee putter--and I
was ten yards away in as wicked a little crevice as you could wish to find.

"'If it doesn't shake your nerve, skipper,' said Laxey, 'I might mention that my score is 543.'

"'You'd better give me the game, then,' I answered. 'I'm but a modest 520.'

"'Not jolly likely. You'll take at least twenty to get out of that burrow. Besides, I know
Wilkins is rotten at figures, and I claim a recount.'

"An audit and scrutiny showed that we were both 537, and although Laxey held a distinct advantage
in position I decided on a strenuous effort to halve the game. I took a firm stance and the
hockey stick and let drive for the hole with a tremendous pickaxe stroke. Instantly there was
a blinding flash and an explosion, and, when we had finished picking sand out of our ears and
eyes and allayed the excitement of the Chinks, we discovered my ball comfortably nestling in
the crump-hole.

"'If assistance with derelict Mills bombs is allowed,' said Laxey, 'we've halved.'

"'On the contrary,' I replied, 'as your ball is apparently missing I've won.'

"And, if you believe me, we couldn't find Laxey's ball anywhere, though we had seen it but
a minute or two before. So I claimed the ten francs; but I didn't mention to Laxey that the
following morning I was passing a group of the coolies and saw them with an object that looked
suspiciously like Laxey's ball, hammering it with a stick and trying to make it say Bang!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted, Second Housemaid of three, Scotchwoman preferred; willing to
    wait on table if required; comfortable situation."--Daily Paper.

Possibly; but we always prefer our servants to do their waiting on the floor.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOME THOUGHTS FROM HIND.

1920.

  Back in the years of youth, a thoughtless thruster,
    I did adventure to the East and spurn
  My native land, and foolishly entrust her
    To other guardians pending my return;
  And now time bears me to the second lustre,
    And I am old and weary and I burn
  To freshen memories waxing somewhat vague;
  But men say, "Shun old England like the plague."

  Lord knoweth Hind is not a place of pleasure
    Nor such a land as men forsake with tears;
  Lord knoweth how we venerate and treasure
    The English memory down the Indian years;
  Yet now the mail pours forth in flowing measure
    England's un-Englishness, and in our ears
  Echo the words of men returned from leave,
  Describing Englands one can scarce believe.

  Englands abandoned to the fleeting passions,
    Feckless as Fez, hysterical as Gaul,
  All nigger-music and fantastic fashions
    (And not a house from Leith to London Wall);
  Where food and coal are dealt you out in rations
    And you can hardly raise a drink at all,
  And tailors charge you twenty pounds a touch.
  Is that a place for Nabobs? No, not much.

  Better were Hind where troubles more or less stick
    To one set style and do not drive you mad
  With changes; where a roof and a domestic,
    Petrol and usquebagh can still be had;
  And one can trust the Taj and the Majestic
    (Bombay hotels be these and none too bad)
  To stand for culture in the hour of need
  And stop one running utterly to seed.

  Hind be it; as for Home--festina lente;
    Hind be it and a station in the sun,
  Wherein if peace abideth not nor plenty
    At least you are not ruined and undone.
  I am not coming home in 1920,
    And maybe not in 1921;
  If all the English England's dead and gone,
  One can remember; one can carry on.

  H.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITTLE TALES FOR YOUNG PLUMBERS.

THE CONVERSION OF GEORGE.

George was a plumber by trade and a striker by occupation. He did his plumbing in his holidays,
when he was not busy. He liked plumbing, as it gave his throat a rest. He was really the Champion
Long Distance Plumber of the World and had gained the R.S.V.P.'s gold medal for doing the back-in-a-
minute-to-get-your-tools in more than two hours. And his heart was as tender as his feet. If
he heard a clock strike he longed to strike in sympathy, so that hard-hearted employers who
knew George's weakness always kept their time-pieces muffled.

The bursting of our water-pipe was the means of bringing me into touch with George. He joined
our bathing-party in the front hall, and said simply, "I am the plumber." Just like that. He
then said that he would swim home for his tools, as he had forgotten the can-opener. When he
got back Auntie was drowned.

He did not stay long, as he had to go on sympathetic strike with the graziers. He was not really
a grazier as well as a plumber, but his heart was so tender that he couldn't keep on plumbing
so as to give satisfaction, he said, as long as the graziers were not grazing, so to speak.
It didn't really matter. Nothing matters nowadays. I just went out and sold the house as it
stood for an enormous sum and emigrated on the proceeds to Tooting Bec.

But this tract deals with George and his conversion, and has been written specially to be put
into the hands of young plumbers. Let us see then how George gave up his sinful ways and how
his heart was changed.

It began with his tooth--an old, old tooth. It had done some work in its time, but it decided
to strike. And strike it did. George gave it beer--Government beer--and it hit George back,
good and hard. George then began to talk to it. He asked if it knew what it was doing of. He
threatened it with more Government beer if it didn't get on with its work more quiet-like.
The tooth sat up then and bit George.

"All right, young fellow my lad," said George; "you come out along o' me, and come quiet. You're
going to the dentist's, you are, and he'll Bolshevise you proper, he will."

The tooth stopped aching at once; it was a wisdom tooth. But George knew it was only just lying
low, to break out into sympathetic strike on Monday morning. So out he rushed with it and took
it to the dentist. I was the dentist.

I led George gently by the hand to my nice little chair and told him what beautiful weather
we were having for the time of the year. I said, "Open, please," and George opened. I then
took my nice little steel whangee, beautifully polished, and tickled the delinquent. A gentle
tickle and no more. I didn't really go far--not farther than his back collar-stud--but George
said things as if I were a capitalist.

I then said coldly, "It doesn't hurt!" I am what is known in the profession as a painless dentist
and rarely feel much pain.

I capped his repartee by remarking, "Keep open, please." That always shuts 'em up. George kept
open. I then spilt some cotton-wool in his tooth and put up some scaffolding in the entrance
of his mouth, and said nonchalantly (I always charge extra for this), "I have forgotten my
niblick; keep open. I shall be back anon." I then went out and had lunch.

When I came back George was still keeping open, but he looked at me very wicked with his blue
eyes and asked me from under the cotton-wool if I ever intended to finish my ruddy little job.

I said, "Dear brother and oppressed fellow-striker, I regret that I cannot. I see by The Dentists'
Daily that our Union has declared a sympathetic strike with the Amalgamated Excavators and
Theological Students. You have my sympathy. I can no more."

George tried to persuade me as we went downstairs together, bumping our heads on each step
in turn, but it was of no avail.

I do not however regret my pious invention, as I hear that George is a changed man. Being intelligent,
he thought things over for himself, instead of letting a man in a red tie do it for him, and
after six weeks came to the conclusion that a strike is a game that more than one can play
at. He strikes now only in his holidays. He never now forgets his tools or leaves taps running.
He does a good day's plumb for a good day's pay. And he sings while he works. Strange to say
that little tooth of his has given up striking too.

But yet it is not strange, for, as I told you, it was a wisdom tooth.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "£3 10s. HUSBANDS.

    WIFE WHO HOUSEKEEPS FOR THREE ON £2 A WEEK."--Daily Paper.

But isn't this rather trigamous?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BEHIND THE SCENES IN CINEMA-LAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIXES THE HARE.

I found Andy Devenish, of Castle Devenish, Co. Cork, in Piccadilly. He was wearing an old frieze
overcoat, the bottom of which had suffered from a puppy's teeth, and a bowler hat with a guard-ring
dangling from its flat brim. His freckled nose was squashed against Fore's window as he gazed
wistfully at the sporting prints within. I led him gently westwards, pushed him into the club's
best arm-chair, placed the wine of our mutual country at his elbow and spoke to him severely.

"Tell me," said I, "how is it I find you thus, got up in the height of fashion, loitering with
intent to lady-kill in this colossal rabbit-warren which knows no hound but the sleuth, no
horse but the towel? How is it, man, when there's a Peace on and the month is February and
there's no frost south of the Liffey? Why aren't you dressed in a coat that is pink in spots
and a cap that is velvet in places, flipping over your stone-faced banks on a rampageous four-year-old
that you bought for ten pounds down, ten pounds some time, a sack of seed oats and an old saddle,
and will eventually palm off on an Englishman at Ballsbridge for two hundred cash? What about
the hounds? The Ballinknock Versatiles? What are they doing without their master? Going for
improving country walks with Patsey Mike, two and two like young ladies from a seminary, or
sitting up on their benches, a tear in every eye, wailing, 'Oh, where is our wandering boy
tonight?'

"And what about the Ballinknock foxes, eh? Aren't they entitled to some consideration? Didn't
they carry on patiently for four dull years while you were in France, learning to walk in the
cavalry, on the understanding that you'd make up for it when you got back by hunting them every
day of the week? Have you no love or sympathy for dumb animals? Why are you here? What are
you flying from? Tell me your dread secret. Is it debt, arson, murder--or is some woman threatening
to marry you?"

Andy growled into his whiskey-and-soda, then suddenly pointed out of the window. "See the advertisement
on that bus?"

"'MIND THE WIDOW'," I read, "'shrieking comedy by Cosmo--'"

"No, not that one," Andy grumbled; "t'other."

It was a picture of a smiling gentleman with a head that gleamed like patent leather. The gentleman
attributed his happiness to the fact that he mixed "Florazora" cream with his scalp. "Florazora
Cream," I read, "fixes the hair. Subtly perfumed with honey and flowers. Imparts a lustre and--"
The bus resumed its journey.

