Overjoyed at the sight of his enemy's blood, Æneas drew his sword from its sheath, and rushed
upon Mezentius, who was as yet bewildered by the blow. When Lausus saw his father in such peril
he sprang forward and stood before Æneas, while Mezentius fell back among his friends, the
Trojan lance still trailing in his armor. Lausus received the first stroke of Æneas' sword
on his buckler, while the Rutulians with loud shouts applauded him, and poured on the Trojan
hero a tempest of darts. Against this he protected himself with his shield, and meanwhile,
pitying the youth and courage of Lausus, spoke to him in words of warning: "Why do you thus
rush on your own destruction, and attempt what is beyond your strength? Your filial devotion
blinds you to your danger." But Lausus, resolute to defend his wounded sire, returned a haughty
defiance. Then Æneas could no longer control his wrath; he exerted all his strength, and thrust
his terrible sword up to the hilt through the body of the youth, who sank lifeless on the blood-steeped
ground. When Æneas saw the comely young warrior stretched dead before him, his heart was filled
with pity. "Ill-fated youth!" he cried, "how can I testify my reverence for thy filial piety
and thy undaunted valor? Thou shalt at least retain those arms which it was thy delight to
wear, and thy body shall be given up unspoiled to thy friends." With that he summoned the dismayed
followers of Lausus, and with his own hands raised from the ground the comely body, all disfigured
with blood and wounds. Meantime Mezentius had retreated to the bank of the Tiber, where he
took off his armor, and bathed his wound with water. While he was thus resting from the fatigues
of the battle, he was full of anxiety for his son, and sent messenger after messenger to recall
him from the fight. But too soon a crowd of weeping warriors appeared, carrying the corpse
of Lausus in their arms. The sorrowing father divined what had occurred from their lamentations,
even before the body was brought to him. He threw dust upon his head, he clasped the loved
form in his arms, and bedewed the pallid face with his tears. "O my son," he exclaimed, "was
I possessed with such a fond desire of life as to suffer thee to offer thyself in my place
to the relentless foe? Am I preserved at the cost of these cruel wounds? Now, indeed, I feel
the calamity of exile. My crimes have cost thee not only thy paternal throne and sceptre, but
thy life also. It was I that owed expiation to my country, and should have satisfied my people
by a deserved death. And yet I live! yet I do not quit the detested light! but I will quickly
follow thee." Then he rose up, and though crippled by the wound in his thigh, and suffering
anguish from its smart, he did not flinch, but ordered his attendants to bring his courser.
This was a horse famous for its speed and its prompt obedience to the rein. When it was brought,
he accosted it: "Long have we lived together, Rhoebus, and many great deeds have we accomplished.
To-day we shall either bear away the head of Æneas and his arms all spattered with his blood,
or we shall perish together; for I am assured that thou wilt never condescend to bear a Trojan
lord." Then mounting the noble steed, he filled both hands with darts, and dashed recklessly
into the midst of the battle. His heart swelling with rage and shame and grief, he thrice loudly
summoned Æneas to the combat. Æneas heard, and rejoiced at the challenge; and with threatening
spear advanced to meet his foe. "Barbarous wretch," cried Mezentius, "thinkest thou to affright
me with thy weapons, now that thou hast robbed me of my son? That was the only means by which
thou couldst destroy me. I fear neither death nor the anger of any of your gods. Forbear threats;
now am I come hither to die, but first I bring you these gifts." So saying, he rapidly hurled
one dart after another at the hero, whirling swiftly round him on his horse; but the shield
framed by Vulcan's hands received all the shafts and repelled them. Wearied at last of so unequal
a fight, in which he had to endure ceaseless attacks without striking a blow, Æneas stepped
forward, and hurled his spear against the charger, piercing its skull betwixt the ears. The
fiery horse reared upward in the death agony, and then fell backward upon his rider, pressing
him to the earth. The spectators of this fierce combat uplifted their voices in shouts, some
in joy and others in sorrow, as Æneas rushed up to the fallen warrior, and lifting his sword
to deal the fatal blow, cried, "Where is now the stern Mezentius?" The Etrurian, on the other
hand, replied, "Spiteful foe, why dost thou threaten and insult before thou strikest? Thou
wilt do me no wrong in slaying me. I sought thee expecting nothing else, and neither I nor
my son has asked mercy at thy hands. One favor alone I implore of thee, that thou wilt give
burial to my corpse. I know well that the hate of my former subjects would pursue me after
death. Defend my remains, I entreat, from outrage, and grant me a grave along with my son."
He said no more, but extended his throat to receive the fatal blow, which descended and drew
forth his life as the blood poured over his armor.

The shades of night were now gathering, and as the Rutulians and Latins had quitted the field
in confusion, the conflicts of that sanguinary day were at last, ended.

ÆNEAS FINALLY CONQUERS THE LATINS

By Alfred J. Church

Prince Turnus was filled with rage. Even as a lion which a hunter hath wounded breaketh the
arrow wherewith he hath been stricken, and rouseth himself to battle, shaking his mane and
roaring, so Turnus arose. And first he spake to King Latinus, saying, "I will meet this man
face to face, and slay him while ye look on; or, if the Gods will that he vanquish me so, he
shall rule over you, and have Lavinia to wife."

But King Latinus made answer, "Yet think awhile, my son. Thou hast the kingdom of thy father
Daunus; and there are other noble virgins in Latium whom thou mayest have to wife. Wilt thou
not then be content? For to give my daughter to any husband of this nation I was forbidden,
as thou knowest. Yet did I disobey, being moved by love of thee, my wife also beseeching me
with many tears. Thou seest what troubles I and my people, and thou more than all, have suffered
from that time. Twice have we fled in the battle, and now the city only is left to us. If I
must yield me to these men, let me yield whilst thou art yet alive. For what doth it profit
me that thou shouldst die? Nay, but all men would cry shame on me if I gave thee to death!"
Now for a space Turnus spake not for wrath. Then he said, "Be not troubled for me, my father.
For I, too, can smite with the spear; and as for this Æneas, his mother will not be at hand
to snatch him in a cloud from my sight."

Then Amata cried to him, saying, "Fight not, I beseech thee, with these men of Troy, my son;
for surely what thou sufferest I also shall suffer. Nor will I live to see Æneas my son-in-law."

And Lavinia heard the voice of her mother, and wept. As a man stains ivory with crimson, or
as roses are seen mixed with lilies, even so the virgin's face burned with crimson. And Turnus,
regarding her, loved her exceedingly, and made answer, "Trouble me not with tears or idle words,
my mother, for to this battle I must go. And do thou, Idmon the herald, say to the Phrygian
king, 'To-morrow, when the sun shall rise, let the people have peace, but we two will fight
together. And let him that prevaileth have Lavinia to wife.'"

Then first he went to the stalls of his horses. The wife of the North Wind gave them to Pilumnus.
Whiter than snow were they, and swifter than the wind. Then he put the coat of mail about his
shoulders, and fitted a helmet on his head, and took the great sword which Vulcan had made
for Daunus his father, and had dipped it when it was white-hot in the river of Styx. His spear
also he took where it stood against a pillar, saying, "Serve me well, my spear, that hast never
failed me before, that I may lay low this womanish robber of Phrygia, and soil with dust his
curled and perfumed hair." The next day the men of Italy and the men of Troy measured out a
space for the battle. And in the midst they builded an altar of turf. And the two armies sat
on the one side and on the other, having fixed their spears in the earth and laid down their
shields. Also the women and the old men stood on the towers and roofs of the city, that they
might see the fight.

But Queen Juno spake to Juturna, the sister of Turnus, saying, "Seest thou how these two are
now about to fight, face to face? And indeed Turnus goeth to his death. As for me, I endure
not to look upon this covenant or this battle. But if thou canst do aught for thy brother,
lo! the time is at hand." And when the nymph wept and beat her breast, Juno said, "This is
no time for tears. Save thy brother, if thou canst, from death; or cause that they break this
covenant."

After this came the kings, that they might make the covenant together. And King Latinus rode
in a chariot with four horses, and he had on his head a crown with twelve rays of gold, for
he was of the race of the sun; and Turnus came in a chariot with two white horses, having a
javelin in either hand; and Æneas had donned the arms which Vulcan had made, and with him was
the young Iulus. And after due offering Æneas sware, calling on all the Gods, "If the victory
shall fall this day to Turnus, the men of Troy shall depart to the city of Evander, nor trouble
this land any more. But if it fall to me, I will not that the Latins should serve the men of
Troy. Let the nations be equal one with the other. The gods that I bring we will worship together,
but King Latinus shall reign as before. A new city shall the men of Troy build for me, and
Lavinia shall call it after her own name."

Then King Latinus sware, calling on the gods that are above and the gods that are below, saying,
"This covenant shall stand forever, whatsoever may befall. As sure as this sceptre which I
bear--once it was a tree, but a cunning workman closed it in bronze, to be the glory of the
Latian kings--shall never again bear twig or leaf, so surely shall this covenant be kept."

But the thing pleased not the Latins; for before, indeed, they judged that the battle would
not be equal between two; and now were they the more assured, seeing them when they came together,
and that Turnus walked with eyes cast to the ground, and was pale and wan. Wherefore there
arose a murmuring among the people, which when Juturna perceived, she took upon herself the
likeness of Camertus, who was a prince and a great warrior among them, and passed through the
host saying, "Are ye not ashamed, men of Italy, that one man should do battle for you all?
For count these men; surely they are scarce one against two. And if he be vanquished, what
shame for you! As for him, indeed, though he die, yet shall his glory reach to the heavens;
but ye shall suffer disgrace, serving these strangers forever."

And when she saw that the people were moved, she gave also a sign from heaven. For lo! an eagle,
that drave a crowd of sea-fowl before him, swooped down to the water, and caught a great swan;
and even while the Italians looked, the birds that before had fled turned and pursued the eagle,
and drave him before them, so that he dropped the swan and fled away. Which thing when the
Italians perceived they shouted, and made them ready for battle. And the augur Tolumnius cried,
"This is the token that I have looked for. For this eagle is the stranger, and ye are the birds,
which before, indeed, have fled, but shall now make him to flee."

And he ran forward and cast his spear, smiting a man of Arcadia below the belt, upon the groin.
One of nine brothers was he, sons of a Tuscan mother, but their father was a Greek; and they,
when they saw him slain, caught swords and spears, and ran forward. And straightway the battle
was begun. First they brake down the altars, that they might take firebrands therefrom; and
King Latinus fled from the place. Then did Messapus drive his horses against King Aulestes
of Mantua, who, being fain to fly, stumbled upon the altar and fell headlong on the ground.
And Messapus smote him with a spear that was like a weaver's beam, saying, "This, of a truth,
is a worthier victim." After this Coryneus, the Arcadian, when Ebysus would have smitten him,
snatched a brand from the altar and set fire to the beard of the man, and, before he came to
himself, caught him by the hair, and thrusting him to the ground, so slew him. And when Podalirius
pursued Alsus the shepherd, and now held his sword over him ready to strike, the other turned,
and with a battle-axe cleft the man's head from forehead to chin.

But all the while the righteous Æneas, having his head bare, and holding neither spear nor
sword, cried to the people, "What seek ye? what madness is this? The covenant is established,
and I only have the right to do battle." But even while he spake an arrow smote him, wounding
him. But who let it fly no man knoweth; for who, of a truth, would boast that he had wounded
Æneas? And he departed from the battle.

Now when Turnus saw that Æneas had departed from the battle he called for his chariot. And
when he had mounted thereon he drave it through the host of the enemy, slaying many valiant
heroes, as Sthenelus and Pholus, and the two sons of Imbrasus the Lycian, Glaucus and Lades.
Then he saw Eumedes, son of that Dolon who would have spied out the camp of the Greeks, asking
as his reward the horses of Achilles (but Diomed slew him). Him Turnus smote with a javelin
from afar, and, when he fell, came near and put his foot upon him, and taking his sword drave
it into his neck, saying, "Lo! now thou hast the land which thou soughtest. Lie there and measure
out Italy for thyself." Many others he slew, for the army fled before him. Yet did one man,
Phegeus by name, stand against him, and would have stayed the chariot, clutching the bridles
of the horses in his hand. But as he clung to the yoke and was dragged along, Turnus broke
his cuirass with his spear, and wounded him. And when the man set his shield before him, and
made at Turnus with his sword, the wheels dashed him to the ground, and Turnus struck him between
the helmet and the breastplate and smote off his head.

But in the meanwhile Mnestheus and Achates and Iulus led Æneas to the camp, leaning on his
spear. Very wroth was he, and strove to draw forth the arrow. And when he could not, he commanded
that they should open the wound with the knife, and so send him back to the battle. Iapis also,
the physician, ministered to him. Now this Iapis was dearer than all other men to Apollo, and
when the god would have given him all his arts, even prophecy and music and archery, he chose
rather to know the virtues of herbs and the art of healing, that so he might prolong the life
of his father, who was even ready to die. This Iapis, then, having his garments girt about
him in healer's fashion, would have drawn forth the arrow with the pincers, but could not.
And while he strove, the battle came nearer, and the sky was hidden by clouds of dust, and
javelins fell thick into the camp. But when Venus saw how grievously her son was troubled,
she brought from Ida, which is a mountain of Crete, the herb dittany. A hairy stalk it hath
and a purple flower. The wild goats know it well if so be that they have been wounded by arrows.
This, then, Venus, having hidden her face, brought and dipped into the water, and sprinkled
there with ambrosia and sweet-smelling panacea.

And Iapis, unawares, applied the water that had been healed; and lo! the pain was stayed and
the blood was staunched and the arrow came forth, though no man drew it, and Æneas's strength
came back to him as before. Then said lapis, "Art of mine hath not healed thee, my son. The
Gods call thee to thy work." Then did Æneas arm himself again, and when he had kissed Iulus
and bidden him farewell, he went forth to the battle. And all the chiefs went with him, and
the men of Troy took courage and drave back the Latins. Then befell a great slaughter, for
Gyas slew Ufens, who was the leader of the Æquians; also Tolumnius, the great augur, was slain,
who had first broken the covenant, slaying a man with his spear. But Æneas deigned not to turn
his hand against any man, seeking only for Turnus, that he might fight with him. But when the
nymph Juturna perceived this she was sore afraid. Therefore she came near to the chariot of
her brother, and thrust out Metiscus, his charioteer, where he held the reins, and herself
stood in his room, having made herself like to him in shape and voice. Then as a swallow flies
through the halls and arcades of some rich man's house, seeking food for its young, so Juturna
drave the chariot of her brother hither and thither. And ever Æneas followed behind, and called
to him that he should stay; but whenever he espied the man, and would have overtaken him by
running, then again did Juturna turn the horses about and flee. And as he sped Messapus cast
a spear at him. But Æneas saw it coming, and put his shield over him, resting on his knee.
Yet did the spear smite him on the helmet-top and shear off the crest. Then indeed was his
wrath kindled, and he rushed into the army of the enemy, slaying many as he went.

Then was there a great slaughter made on this side and on that. But after a while Venus put
it into the heart of Æneas that he should lead his army against the city. Therefore he called
together the chiefs, and, standing in the midst of them on a mound, spake, saying, "Hearken
now to my words, and delay not to fulfill them, for of a truth Jupiter is on our side. I am
purposed this day to lay this city of Latinus even with the ground, if they still refuse to
obey. For why should I wait for Turnus till it please him to meet me in battle?"

Then did the whole array make for the walls of the city. And some carried firebrands, and some
scaling-ladders, and some slew the warders at the gates, and cast javelins at them who stood
on the walls. And then there arose a great strife in the city, for some would have opened the
gates that the men of Troy might enter, and others made haste to defend the walls. Hither and
thither did they run with much tumult, even as bees in a hive in a rock which a shepherd hath
filled with smoke, having first shut all the doors thereof.

Then also did other ill fortune befall the Latins, for when Queen Amata saw from the roof of
the palace that the enemy were come near to the walls, and saw not anywhere the army of the
Latins, she supposed Turnus to have fallen in the battle. Whereupon, crying out that she was
the cause of all these woes, she made a noose of the purple garment wherewith she was clad,
and hanged herself from a beam of the roof. Then did lamentation go through the city, for the
women wailed and tore their hair, and King Latinus rent his clothes and threw dust upon his head.

But the cry that went up from the city came to the ears of Turnus where he fought in the farthest
part of the plain. And he caught the reins and said, "What meaneth this sound of trouble and
wailing that I hear?" And the false Metiscus, who was in truth his sister, made answer, "Let
us fight, O Turnus, here where the Gods give us victory. There are enough to defend the city."
But Turnus spake, saying, "Nay, my sister, for who thou art I have known even from the beginning;
it must not be so. Why camest thou down from heaven? Was it to see thy brother die? And now
what shall I do? Have I not seen Murranus die, and Ufens the Æquian? And shall I suffer this
city to be destroyed? Shall this land see Turnus flee before his enemies? Be ye kind to me,
O gods of the dead, seeing that the gods of heaven hate me. I come down to you a righteous
spirit, and not unworthy of my fathers."

And even as he spake came Saces, riding on a horse that was covered with foam, and on his face
was the wound of an arrow. And he cried, "O Turnus, our last hopes are in thee. For Æneas is
about to destroy the city, and the firebrands are cast upon the roofs. And King Latinus is
sore tried with doubt, and the Queen hath laid hands upon herself and is dead. And now only
Messapus and Atinas maintain the battle, and the fight grows fierce around them, whilst thou
drivest thy chariot about these empty fields."

Then for a while Turnus stood speechless, and shame and grief and madness were in his soul;
and he looked to the city, and lo! the fire went up even to the top of the tower which he himself
had builded upon the walls to be a defense against the enemy. And when he saw it, he cried,
"It is enough, my sister; I go whither the Gods call me. I will meet with Æneas face to face,
and endure my doom."

And as he spake he leapt down from his chariot, and ran across the plain till he came near
to the city, even where the blood was deepest upon the earth, and the arrows were thickest
in the air. And he beckoned with the hand and called to the Italians, saying, "Stay now your
arrows. I am come to fight this battle for you all." And when they heard it they left a space
in the midst. Æneas also, when he heard the name of Turnus, left attacking the city, and came
to meet him, mighty as Athos, or Eryx, or Father Apenninus, that raiseth his snowy head to
the heavens. And the men of Troy and the Latins and King Latinus marveled to see them meet,
so mighty they were.

First they cast their spears at each other, and then ran together, and their shields struck
one against the other with a crash that went up to the sky. And Jupiter held the balance in
heaven, weighing their doom. Then Turnus, rising to the stroke, smote fiercely with his sword.
And the men of Troy and the Latins cried out when they saw him strike. But the treacherous
sword brake in the blow. And when he saw the empty hilt in his hand he turned to flee. They
say that when he mounted his chariot that day to enter the battle, not heeding the matter in
his haste, he left his father's sword behind him, and took the sword of Metiscus, which, indeed,
served him well while the men of Troy fled before him, but brake, even as ice breaks, when
it came to the shield which Vulcan had made. Thereupon Turnus fled, and Æneas, though the wound
which the arrow had made hindered him, pursued. Even as a hound follows a stag that is penned
within some narrow space, for the beast flees hither and thither, and the staunch Umbrian hound
follows close upon him, and almost holds him, and snaps his teeth, yet bites him not, so did
Æneas follow hard on Turnus. And still Turnus cried out that some one should give him his sword,
and Æneas threatened that he would destroy the city if any should help him. Five times about
the space they ran; not for some prize they strove, but for the life of Turnus. Now there stood
in the plain the stump of a wild olive-tree. The tree was sacred to Faunus, but the men of
Troy had cut it, and the stump only was left. Herein the spear of Æneas was fixed, and now
he would have drawn it forth that he might slay Turnus therewith, seeing that he could not
overtake him by running. Which when Turnus perceived, he cried to Faunus, saying, "O Faunus,
if I have kept holy for thee that which the men of Troy have profaned, hold fast this spear."
And the god heard him; nor could Æneas draw it forth. But while he strove, Juturna, taking
again the form of Metiscus, ran and gave to Turnus his sword. And Venus, perceiving it, wrenched
forth the spear from the stump. So the two stood again face to face.

Then spake Jupiter to Juno, where she sat in a cloud watching the battle, "How long wilt thou
fight against fate? What purpose hast thou now in thy heart? Was it well that Juturna--for
what could she avail without thy help?--should give back to Turnus his sword? Thou hast driven
the men of Troy over land and sea, and kindled a dreadful war, and mingled the song of marriage
with mourning. Further thou mayest not go."

And Juno humbly made answer, "This is thy will, great Father; else had I not sat here, but
stood in the battle smiting the men of Troy. And indeed I spake to Juturna that she should
help her brother; but aught else I know not. And now I yield. Yet grant me this. Suffer not
that the Latins should be called after the name of Troy, nor change their speech, nor their
garb. Let Rome rule the world, but let Troy perish forever."

Then spake with a smile the Maker of all things, "Truly thou art a daughter of Saturn, so fierce
is the wrath of thy soul. And now what thou prayest I give. The Italians shall not change name,
nor speech, nor garb. The men of Troy shall mingle with them, and I will give them a new worship,
and call them all Latins. Nor shall any race pay thee more honor than they."

Then Jupiter sent a fury from the pit. And she took the form of a bird, even of an owl that
sitteth by night on the roof of a desolate house, and flew before the face of Turnus and flapped
her wings against his shield. Then was Turnus stricken with great fear, so that his hair stood
up and his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth. And when Juturna knew the sound of the false
bird what it was, she cried aloud for fear, and left her brother and fled, hiding herself in
the river of Tiber.

