"I don't know anything better than to leave it here; but I think, your honour, the pistols
will come handy, for they're all very good ones, and Paddy and me can carry them between us,
or I can make two bags from these leather packs, and Paddy could carry the lot in them, as
I do the swords."

"Very well," I said. "Make your preparations as quickly as you can and let us be off, for this
latest incident, in spite of you, Jem, may lead to pursuit and get us into trouble before we
are ready for it."

"No fear, sir," said Jem confidently. "One thief does not lay information against another.
If they had been peaceable travellers, that would be another thing; but, as I said, Providence
is protecting us, no doubt because of the presence of his Reverence here, and not for our own
merits."

"Be thankful it is the reward of some one else's merits you, reap, Bottles, instead of your
own. No more talk now, but to horse and away."

For some miles Father Donovan rode very silently. I told him something of my meeting with Jem
Bottles and explained how I tried to make an honest man of him, while this was the first lapse
I had known since his conversion. I even pretended that I had some belief in his own theory
of the interposition of Providence, and Father Donovan was evidently struggling to acquire
a similar feeling, although he seemed to find some difficulty in the contest. He admitted that
this robbery appeared but even justice; still he ventured to hope that Jem Bottles would not
take the coincidence as a precedent, and that he would never mistake the dictates of Providence
for the desires of his own nature.

"I will speak with the man later," he said, "and hope that my words will make some impression
upon him. There was a trace of exaltation in his recital that showed no sign of a contrite spirit."

On account of the delay at the roadside it was well past twelve o'clock before we reached Maidstone,
and there we indulged in a good dinner that put heart into all of us, while the horses had
time to rest and feed. The road to Rye presented no difficulties whatever, but under ordinary
conditions I would have rested a night before travelling to the coast. There would be a little
delay before the Earl discovered the useless nature of the papers which he had been at such
expense to acquire, but after the discovery there was no doubt in my mind that he would move
upon Brede as quickly as horses could carry his men, so I insisted upon pressing on to Rye
that night, and we reached the town late with horses that were very tired. It was a long distance
for a man of the age of Father Donovan to travel in a day, but he stood the journey well, and
enjoyed his supper and his wine with the best of us.

We learned that there was no boat leaving for France for several days, and this disquieted
me, for I would have liked to see Father Donovan off early next morning, for I did not wish
to disclose my project to the peace-loving man. I must march on Brede next day if I was to
get there in time, and so there was no longer any possibility of concealing my designs. However,
there was no help for it, and I resolved to be up bright and early in the morning and engage
a dozen men whom I could trust to stand by me. I also intended to purchase several cartloads
of provisions, so that if a siege was attempted we could not be starved out. All this I would
accomplish at as early an hour as possible, get the carts on their way to Brede, and march
at the head of the men myself; so I went to bed with a somewhat troubled mind, but fell speedily
into a dreamless sleep nevertheless, and slept till broad daylight.

CHAPTER XXXII

I found Rye a snug little town, and so entirely peaceable-looking that when I went out in the
morning I was afraid there would be nobody there who would join me in the hazardous task of
taking possession of the place of so well-known a man as the Earl of Westport. But I did not
know Rye then as well as I do now: it proved to be a great resort for smugglers when they were
off duty and wished to enjoy the innocent relaxation of a town after the comparative loneliness
of the sea-coast, although, if all the tales they tell me are true, the authorities sometimes
made the sea-shore a little too lively for their comfort. Then there were a number of seafaring
men looking for a job, and some of them had the appearance of being pirates in more prosperous
days.

As I wandered about I saw a most gigantic ruffian, taking his ease with his back against the
wall, looking down on the shipping.

"If that man's as bold as he's strong," said I to myself, "and I had half a dozen more like
him, we'd hold Brede House till the day there's liberty in Ireland;" so I accosted him.

"The top o' the morning to you," said I genially.

He eyed me up and down, especially glancing at the sword by my side, and then said civilly:

"The same to you, sir. You seem to be looking for some one?"

"I am," said I, "I'm looking for nine men."

"If you'll tell me their names I'll tell you where to find them, for I know everybody in Rye."

"If that's the case you'll know their names, which is more than I do myself."

"Then you're not acquainted with them?"

"I am not; but if you'll tell me your name I think then I'll know one of them."

There was a twinkle in his eye as he said:

"They call me Tom Peel."

"Then Tom," said I, "are there eight like you in the town of Rye?"

"Not quite as big perhaps," said Tom, "but there's plenty of good men here, as the French have
found out before now,--yes, and the constables as well. What do you want nine men for?"

"Because I have nine swords and nine pistols that will fit that number of courageous subjects."

"Then it's not for the occupation of agriculture you require them?" said Peel with the hint
of a laugh. "There's a chance of a cut in the ribs, I suppose, for swords generally meet other
swords."

"You're right in that; but I don't think the chance is very strong."

"And perhaps a term in prison when the scrimmage is ended?"

"No fear of that at all at all; for if any one was to go to prison it would be me, who will
be your leader, and not you, who will be my dupes, do you see?"

Peel shrugged his shoulders.

"My experience of the world is that the man with gold lace on his coat goes free, while they
punish the poor devil in the leather jacket. But, turn the scheme out bad or ill, how much
money is at the end of it?"

"There'll be ten guineas at the end of it for each man, win or lose."

"And when will the money be paid?"

"Half before you leave Rye, the other half in a week's time, and perhaps before,--a week's
time at the latest; but I want men who will not turn white if a blunderbuss happens to go off."

The rascallion smiled and spat contemptuously in the dust before him.

"If you show me the guineas," said he, "I'll show you the men."

"Here's five of them, to begin with, that won't be counted against you. There'll be five more
in your pocket when we leave Rye, and a third five when the job's ended."

His big hand closed over the coins.

"I like your way of speaking," he said. "Now where are we to go?"

"To the strong house of Brede, some seven or eight miles from here. I do not know how far exactly,
nor in what direction."

"I am well acquainted with it," said Peel. "It was a famous smuggler's place in its time."

"I don't mean a smuggler's place," said I. "I am talking of the country house of the Earl of
Westport."

"Yes, curse him, that's the spot I mean. Many a nobleman's house is put to purposes he learns
little of, although the Earl is such a scoundrel he may well have been in with the smugglers
and sold them to the government."

"Did he sell them?"

"Somebody sold them."

There was a scowl on Peel's face that somehow encouraged me, although I liked the look of the
ruffian from the first.

"You're an old friend of his lordship's, then?" said I.

"He has few friends in Rye or about Rye. If you're going to do anything against Westport, I'll
get you a hundred men for nothing if there's a chance of escape after the fight."

"Nine men will do me, if they're the right stuff. You will have good cover to sleep under,
plenty to eat and drink, and then I expect you to hold Brede House against all the men the
Earl of Westport can bring forward."

"That's an easy thing," said Peel, his eye lighting up. "And if worse comes to the worst I
know a way out of the house that's neither through door or window nor up a chimney. Where will
I collect your men?"

"Assemble them on the road to Brede, quietly, about half a mile from Rye. Which direction is
Brede from here?"

"It lies to the west, between six and seven miles away as the crow flies."

"Very well, collect your men as quickly as you can, and send word to me at the 'Anchor.' Tell
your messenger to ask for The O'Ruddy."

Now I turned back to the tavern sorely troubled what I would do with Father Donovan. He was
such a kindly man that he would be loath to shake hands with me at the door of the inn, as
he had still two or three days to stop, so I felt sure he would insist on accompanying me part
of the way. I wished I could stop and see him off on his ship; but if we were to get inside
of Brede's House unopposed, we had to act at once. I found Paddy almost recovered from the
assault of the day before. He had a bandage around his forehead, which, with his red hair,
gave him a hideous appearance, as if the whole top of his head had been smashed. Poor Paddy
was getting so used to a beating each day that I wondered wouldn't he be lonesome when the
beatings ceased and there was no enemy to follow him.

Father Donovan had not yet appeared, and the fire was just lit in the kitchen to prepare breakfast,
so I took Jem and Paddy with me to the eating shop of the town, and there a sleepy-looking
shop-keeper let us in, mightily resenting this early intrusion, but changed his demeanour when
he understood the size of the order I was giving him, and the fact that I was going to pay
good gold; for it would be a fine joke on The O'Ruddy if the Earl surrounded the house with
his men and starved him out. So it was no less than three cartloads of provisions I ordered,
though one of them was a cartload of drink, for I thought the company I had hired would have
a continuous thirst on them, being seafaring men and smugglers, and I knew that strong, sound
ale was brewed in Rye.

The business being finished, we three went back to the "Anchor," and found an excellent breakfast
and an excellent man waiting for me, the latter being Father Donovan, although slightly impatient
for closer acquaintance with the former.

When breakfast was done with, I ordered the three horses saddled, and presently out in the
courtyard Paddy was seated on his nag with the two sacks of pistols before him, and Jem in
like manner with his two bundles of swords. The stableman held my horse, so I turned to Father
Donovan and grasped him warmly by the hand.

"A safe journey across the Channel to you, Father Donovan, and a peaceful voyage from there
to Rome, whichever road you take. If you write to me in the care of the landlord of this inn
I'll be sending and sending till I get your letter, and when you return I'll be standing and
watching the sea, at whatever point you land in England, if you'll but let me know in time.
And so good-bye to you, Father Donovan, and God bless you, and I humbly beseech your own blessing
in return."

The old man's eyes grew wider and wider as I went on talking and talking and shaking him by
the hand.

"What's come over you, O'Ruddy?" he said, "and where are you going?"

"I am taking a long journey to the west and must have an early start."

"Nonsense," cried Father Donovan, "it's two or three days before I can leave this shore, so
I'll accompany you a bit of the way."

"You mustn't think of it, Father, because you had a long day's ride yesterday, and I want you
to take care of yourself and take thought on your health."

"Tush, I'm as fresh as a boy this morning. Landlord, see that the saddle is put on that horse
I came into Rye with."

The landlord at once rushed off and gave the order, while I stood there at my wit's end.

"Father Donovan," said I, "I'm in great need of haste at this moment, and we must ride fast,
so I'll just bid good-bye to you here at this comfortable spot, and you'll sit down at your
ease in that big arm-chair."

"I'll do nothing of the kind, O'Ruddy. What's troubling you, man? and why are you in such a
hurry this morning, when you said nothing of it yesterday?"

"Father, I said nothing of it yesterday, but sure I acted it. See how we rode on and on in
spite of everything, and did the whole journey from London to Rye between breakfast and supper.
Didn't that give you a hint that I was in a hurry?"

"Well, it should have done, it should have done, O'Ruddy; still, I'll go a bit of the way with
you and not delay you."

"But we intend to ride very fast, Father."

"Ah, it's an old man you're thinking I'm getting to be. Troth, I can ride as fast as any one
of the three of you, and a good deal faster than Paddy."

At this moment the landlord came bustling in.

"Your Reverence's horse is ready," he said.

And so there was nothing for it but to knock the old man down, which I hadn't the heart to
do. It is curious how stubborn some people are; but Father Donovan was always set in his ways,
and so, as we rode out of Rye to the west, with Paddy and Jem following us, I had simply to
tell his Reverence all about it, and you should have seen the consternation on his countenance.

"Do you mean to tell me you propose to take possession of another man's house and fight him
if he comes to claim his own?"

"I intend that same thing, your Reverence;" for now I was as stubborn as the old gentleman
himself, and it was not likely I was going to be put off my course when I remembered the happiness
that was ahead of me; but there's little use in trying to explain to an aged priest what a
young man is willing to do for the love of the sweetest girl in all the land.

"O'Ruddy," he said, "you'll be put in prison. It's the inside of a gaol, and not the inside
of a castle, you'll see. It's not down the aisle of a church you'll march with your bride on
your arm, but its hobbling over the cobbles of a Newgate passage you'll go with manacles on
your legs. Take warning from me, my poor boy, who would be heart-broken to see harm come to
you, and don't run your neck into the hangman's noose, thinking it the matrimonial halter.
Turn back while there's yet time, O'Ruddy."

"Believe me, Father Donovan, it grieves me to refuse you anything, but I cannot turn back."

"You'll be breaking the law of the land."

"But the law of the land is broken every day in our district of Ireland, and not too many words
said about it."

"Oh, O'Ruddy, that's a different thing. The law of the land in Ireland is the law of the alien."

"Father, you're not logical. It's the alien I'm going to fight here,"--but before the father
could reply we saw ahead of us the bulky form of Tom Peel, and ranged alongside of the road,
trying to look very stiff and military-like, was the most awkward squad of men I had ever clapped
eyes on; but determined fellows they were, as I could see at a glance when I came fornenst
them, and each man pulled a lock of his hair by way of a salute.

"Do you men understand the use of a sword and a pistol?" said I.

The men smiled at each other as though I was trying some kind of a joke on them.

"They do, your honour," answered Tom Peel on their behalf. "Each one of them can sling a cutlass
to the king's taste, and fire a pistol without winking, and there are now concealed in the
hedge half a dozen blunderbusses in case they should be needed. They make a loud report and
have a good effect on the enemy, even when they do no harm."

"Yes, we'll have the blunderbusses," said I, and with that the men broke rank, burst through
the hedge, and came back with those formidable weapons. "I have ammunition in the carts," I
said, "did you see anything of them?"

"The carts have gone on to the west, your honour; but we'll soon overtake them," and the men
smacked their lips when they thought of the one that had the barrels in it. Now Paddy came
forward with the pistols, and Bottles followed and gave each man a blade, while I gave each
his money.

"O dear! O dear!" groaned Father Donovan.

"There's just a chance we may be attacked before we get to Brede, and, Father, though I am
loath to say good-bye, still it must be said. It's rare glad I'll be when I grip your hand again."

"All in good time; all in good time," said Father Donovan; "I'll go a bit farther along the
road with you and see how your men march. They would fight better and better behind a hedge
than in the open, I'm thinking."

"They'll not have to fight in the open, Father," said I, "but they'll be comfortably housed
if we get there in time. Now, Peel, I make you captain of the men, as you've got them together,
and so, Forward, my lads."

They struck out along the road, walking a dozen different kinds of steps, although there were
only nine of them; some with the swords over their shoulders, some using them like walking-sticks,
till I told them to be more careful of the points; but they walked rapidly and got over the
ground, for the clank of the five guineas that was in each man's pocket played the right kind
of march for them.

"Listen to reason, O'Ruddy, and even now turn back," said Father Donovan.

"I'll not turn back now," said I, "and, sure, you can't expect it of me. You're an obstinate
man yourself, if I must say so, Father."

"It's a foolhardy exploit," he continued, frowning. "There's prison at the end of it for some
one," he murmured.

"No, it's the House of Brede, Father, that's at the end of it."

"Supposing the Earl of Westport brings a thousand men against you,--what are you going to do?"

"Give them the finest fight they have ever seen in this part of England."

In spite of himself I saw a sparkle in Father Donovan's eye. The nationality of him was getting
the better of his profession.

"If it were legitimate and lawful," at last he said, "it would be a fine sight to see."

"It will be legitimate and lawful enough when the Earl and myself come to terms. You need have
no fear that we're going to get into the courts, Father."

"Do you think he'll fight?" demanded the father suddenly, with a glint in his eyes that I have
seen in my own father's when he was telling us of his battles in France.

"Fight? Why of course he'll fight, for he's as full of malice as an egg's full of meat; but
nevertheless he's a sensible old curmudgeon, when the last word's said, and before he'll have
it noised over England that his title to the land is disputed he'll give me what I want, although
at first he'll try to master me."

"Can you depend on these men?"

"I think I can. They're old smugglers and pirates, most of them."

"I wonder who the Earl will bring against you?" said Father Donovan, speaking more to himself
than to me. "Will it be farmers or regular soldiers?"

"I expect they will be from among his own tenantry; there's plenty of them, and they'll all
have to do his bidding."

"But that doesn't give a man courage in battle?"

"No, but he'll have good men to lead them, even if he brings them from London."

"I wouldn't like to see you attacked by real soldiers; but I think these men of yours will
give a good account of themselves if there's only peasantry brought up against them. Sure,
the peasantry in this country is not so warlike as in our own,"--and there was a touch of pride
in the father's remark that went to my very heart.

After riding in silence for a while, meditating with head bowed, he looked suddenly across
at me, his whole face lighted up with delicious remembrance.

"Wouldn't you like to have Mike Sullivan with you this day," he cried, naming the most famous
fighter in all the land, noted from Belfast to our own Old Head of Kinsale.

"I'd give many a guinea," I said, "to have Mike by my side when the Earl comes on."

The old father suddenly brought down his open hand with a slap on his thigh.

"I'm going to stand by you, O'Ruddy," he said.

"I'm glad to have your blessing on the job at last, Father," said I; "for it was sore against
me to go into this business when you were in a contrary frame of mind."

"You'll not only have my blessing, O'Ruddy, but myself as well. How could I sail across the
ocean and never know which way the fight came out? and then, if it is to happen in spite of
me, the Lord pity the frailness of mankind, but I'd like to see it. I've not seen a debate
since the Black Fair of Bandon."

By this time we had overtaken the hirelings with their carts, and the men were swinging past
them at a good pace.

"Whip up your horses," said I to the drivers, "and get over the ground a little faster. It's
not gunpowder that's in those barrels, and when we reach the house there will be a drink for
every one of you."

There was a cheer at this, and we all pushed on with good hearts. At last we came to a lane
turning out from the main road, and then to the private way through fields that led to Brede
House. So far there had been no one to oppose us, and now, setting spurs to our horses, we
galloped over the private way, which ran along the side of a gentle hill until one end of the
mansion came into view. It seemed likely there was no suspicion who we were, for a man digging
in the garden, stood up and took off his cap to us. The front door looked like the Gothic entrance
of a church, and I sprang from my horse and knocked loudly against the studded oak. An old
man opened the door without any measure of caution, and I stepped inside. I asked him who he
was, and he said he was the caretaker.

"How many beside yourself are in this house?"

He said there was only himself, his wife, and a kitchen wench, and two of the gardeners, while
the family was in London.

"Well," said I, "I'd have you know that I'm the family now, and that I'm at home. I am the
owner of Brede estate."

"You're not the Earl of Westport!" said the old man, his eyes opening wide.

"No, thank God, I'm not!"

He now got frightened and would have shut the door, but I gently pushed him aside. I heard
the tramp of the men, and, what was more, the singing of a sea song, for they were nearing
the end of their walk and thinking that something else would soon pass their lips besides the
tune. The old man was somewhat reassured when he saw the priest come in; but dismay and terror
took hold of him when the nine men with their blunderbusses and their swords came singing around
a corner of the house and drew up in front of it. By and by the carts came creaking along,
and then every man turned to and brought the provisions inside of the house and piled them
up in the kitchen in an orderly way, while the old man, his wife, the wench, and the two gardeners
stood looking on with growing signs of panic upon them.

"Now, my ancient caretaker," said I to the old man, in the kindest tones I could bring to my
lips, so as not to frighten him more than was already the case, "what is the name of that little
village over yonder?" and I pointed toward the west, where, on the top of a hill, appeared
a church and a few houses.

"That, sir," he said, with his lips trembling, "is the village of Brede."

"Is there any decent place there where you five people can get lodging; for you see that this
house is now filled with men of war, and so men of peace should be elsewhere? Would they take
you in over at the village?"

"Yes, sir, it is like they would."

"Very well. Here is three guineas to divide among you, and in a week or thereabouts you will
be back in your own place, so don't think disaster has fallen on you."

The old man took the money, but seemed in a strange state of hesitancy about leaving.

"You will be unhappy here," I said, "for there will be gun-firing and sword-playing. Although
I may not look it, I am the most bloodthirsty swordsman in England, with a mighty uncertain
temper on me at times. So be off, the five of you!"

"But who is to be here to receive the family?" he asked.

"What family?"

"Sir, we had word last night that the Earl of Westport and his following would come to this
house to-day at two of the clock, and we have much ado preparing for them; for the messenger
said that he was bringing many men with him. I thought at first that you were the men, or I
would not have let you in."

"Now the Saints preserve us," cried I, "they'll be on us before we get the windows barricaded.
Tom Peel," I shouted, "set your men to prepare the defence at once, and you'll have only a
few hours to do it in. Come, old man, take your wife and your gardeners, and get away."

"But the family, sir, the family," cried the old man, unable to understand that they should
not be treated with the utmost respect.

"I will receive the family. What is that big house over there in the village?"

"The Manor House, sir."

"Very well, get you gone, and tell them to prepare the Manor House for the Earl of Westport
and his following; for he cannot lodge here to-night,"--and with that I was compelled to drag
them forth, the old woman crying and the wench snivelling in company. I patted the ancient
wife on the shoulder and told her there was nothing to be feared of; but I saw my attempt at
consolation had little effect.

Tom Peel understood his business; he had every door barred and stanchioned, and the windows
protected, as well as the means to his hand would allow. Up stairs he knocked out some of the
diamond panes so that the muzzle of a blunderbuss would go through. He seemed to know the house
as if it was his own; and in truth the timbers and materials for defence which he conjured
up from the ample cellars or pulled down from the garret seemed to show that he had prepared
the place for defence long since.

"Your honour," he said, "two dangers threaten this house which you may not be aware of."

"And what are those, Tom?" I asked.

"Well, the least serious one is the tunnel. There is a secret passage from this house down
under the valley and out and up near the church. If it was not guarded they could fill this
house unknown to you. I will stop this end of it with timber if your honour gives the word.
There's not many knows of it, but the Earl of Westport is certain to have the knowledge, and
some of his servants as well."

"Lead me to this tunnel, Tom," said I, astonished at his information.

We came to a door in one of the lower rooms that opened on a little circular stone stairway,
something like a well, and, going down to the bottom, we found a tunnel in which a short man
could stand upright.

"Thunder and turf, Tom!" said I, "what did they want this for?"

"Well, some thought it was to reach the church, but no one ever lived in this house that was
so anxious to get to church that he would go underground to it. Faith, they've been a godless
lot in Brede Place until your honour came, and we were glad to see you bring a priest with
you. It put new heart in the men; they think he'll keep off Sir Goddard Oxenbridge."

