After a time said Stagman--"Since thou will not take Interpreter with thee, there is but one
further advice which I can give. Not far from Vanity Fair dwelleth a certain man, called PREMIUM;
but his house is not easily found, for he liveth next door to Discount, and many strangers,
thinking to find the one, have landed at the door of the other. In truth, it is said there
is a passage between their dwellings, and that the two play into each others hands; for oftentimes,
when Premium see'th visitors coming, and liketh not their look--for he is a shy man, and easily
frightened--he will disappear of a sudden, and send Discount to open the door to them, and
to say he is gone out, and won't be home for a fortnight. This man Premium is almost always
to be found hankering about the Fair; and so long as thou canst keep close upon him, thou art
sure to go right. Follow in the direction he goeth: he will guide thee to a good customer;
but having made thy market, bestir thyself, and go thy way quickly, lest evil overtake thee.
But take care thou lose not sight of the man, for he often vanisheth when least expected; and
shouldst thou fall into the hands of his neighbour, who is ever close behind him, then wert
thou utterly undone."

And about mid-day, as they journeyed, they came in sight of the Fair, which was of goodly extent,
with many lanes and alleys, through which great crowds were ever moving, and the din and hubbub
of their voices, as they called out the names of their wares, was such, that at first the pilgrims
were mightily confused. Littlefaith spake of turning back, but being encouraged of Stagman,
he took heart again, and went on.

And as they gazed about them, and marvelled at the multitudes that were wandering up and down
the rows, cheapening the wares, "Now are we in good-luck," cried Stagman; "for yonder, on the
outskirts of the market, if I mistake not, is Mr Premium. Let us step up boldly to him at once
and take his arm--for if we approach him timidly, he will disappear under one of the booths
incontinently."

"But do you think we may venture?" said Littlefaith.

"Yea, verily," said Stagman; so, hurrying up to him, they laid hold of him gently, but with
a firm grasp, and saluted him. He was a portly person, attired in a gold-coloured suit, and
put on a smiling countenance when the pilgrims laid hold of him; but methought he looked about
him on every side to see whether he could dodge away, and escape. Finding, however, that they
clung to him tightly, he made as if he were much pleased to meet them, and returning their
salutation--

"How now, old friend," said he to Stagman; "what wouldst thou have me to do?"

"Only to show us through the Fair," said Stagman. "These, my friends, are new to the place,
and they would fain know how to sell their wares to the best bidder. I pray thee, go with us,
for thou knowest all the outs and ins of this Babel."

So, keeping fast hold of Mr Premium's arm, they entered the Fair; and if at a distance they
were confused with the clamour and din of the crowd, they were beyond measure astonished when
they got into the thick of it. Here was French row, Dutch row, Belgian row, Irish row, English
row, and Scotch row; the chief crowd, however, was in the English row, which was so choked
up at times with buyers and sellers, that it was not possible to move along at all. But as
most people were glad to make way for Premium, who was well known there and much respected,
the pilgrims got along the rows better than they thought.

"What will you buy, worthy gentlemen--what will you buy?" exclaimed many voices as they passed.

"Buy any Pennsylvanians, gents?" said a man in the raiment of a Quaker.

"Heavy stock, heavy stock, Jonathan!" cried another.

"Buy my Mexicans--best Mexicans!" said a third.

"Would not take a present of them gratis," cried a fourth.

"Spanish three's reduced--who'll buy?" said a fifth.

"Reduced to nothing," said a sixth.

"Portuguese deferred annuities?" said a seventh.

"Deferred to the day of judgment," answered an eight.

"Glenmutchkins--guaranteed stock, 5 premium, ex div.," said a ninth.

"Won't do, Sauley," said a tenth--"won't do at any price."

And so on it went, all the dealers bawling and squabbling together, and trying to depreciate
one another's wares.

But, in the meantime, a certain one came up to Littlefaith in the crowd, and seeing him in
company with Premium, he asked him if he were inclined to sell his scrip.

Whereupon Littlefaith, turning round, saw that it was his old neighbour, Plausible, and answering,
said, "Of a truth such was my errand hither, but what with the din and bustle about me, I doubt
I shall never pluck up heart to find a purchaser."

"I fear, neighbour Littlefaith," said Plausible, "thou art in the right, and let me tell thee
that same scrip of thine is little in favour here; howbeit, for the sake of old acquaintance,
I would not have thee return empty--I will buy thy wares of thee. Thou canst not expect of
me much profit, but here are twenty crowns, which will defray thy travelling charges--and leave
thee a something over beside. Mayhap I may be able some time or other to find a purchaser.
There is the money. Give me the scrip quickly; for I see a certain friend of mine, Mr By-ends,
who beckoneth to me, and cannot wait."

Then did Littlefaith take the crowns, and give unto Plausible the scrip, which when he had
put into his bosom, he smiled and hastened away. When Littlefaith came back to Stagman, he
told him what he had done.

"Thou faint-hearted fool!" said Stagman, "knowest thou not thy wares were well worth a hundred
crowns, which, I warrant thee, Plausible will make of them before the market is over. Out upon
thee for a crazed coxcomb! get thee gone, and trouble us no more in this matter."

"Better is a bird in the hand than two in the bush," said Littlefaith; and so saying, he departed.

But while Stagman was thus gibing Littlefaith for throwing away his wares, suddenly Scapegrace
uttered a cry, and said--

"Mercy on us, what hath become of Mr Premium! I only turned my head for a moment to look at
yonder Prospectus of the Grand Equatorial and Tropical Junction, and, lo! he slips his arm
from mine, and I saw him no more."

"Oh, woe is me!" cried Stagman; "what I foretold has come to pass, and now I fear a worse thing
will yet befall us."

And, as he spake, behold there drew near a lean and ill-favoured person, clad in ragged and
sad-coloured attire, whose doublet was much out at the elbows, and who looked ever towards
the ground; and no sooner did Stagman see him drawing nigh, than he threw his scrip on the
ground, and, hurrying through the crowd, he was seen no more. Then I knew that the man's name
was DISCOUNT.

And when the men of the Fair saw that Premium was gone, and that Stagman had fled as Discount
drew nigh, they seized upon Scapegrace, and began to flout him, at first with fair words and
pretences, but at last more rudely and openly. "So, friend!" cried one, "you will buy nothing
of us, it seems? Mayhap you have something to sell."

"I have in my scrip a few Eldorados, for which I expected a premium," answered Scapegrace.

"Don't you wish you may get it?" said the other sympathetically.

"Does your mother," said a third, with a look of sympathy--"your venerable mother, know that
you are abroad at the Fair?"

"Perfectly well," answered Scapegrace; "it was mainly in consequence of her pecuniary distress
that I came hither."

"Distress, indeed!" answered the other; "thou wouldst not have us believe that she has sold
her mangle yet?"

"I said not that she had," replied Scapegrace; "but she would gladly have parted with it if
she could."

"How are you off for soap?" said another in a compassionate tone.

"Very indifferently, friend," answered Scapegrace; "for my lodging has been but poorly supplied
of late, and I think of changing it."

"Lodging, quotha! You shan't lodge here, Mr Ferguson, I promise you."

"My name is not Ferguson," said Scapegrace meekly; "neither have I the least intention of lodging
here."

"What a shocking bad hat!" cried a voice from behind, and in a trice was Scapegrace's hat knocked
over his eyes, and his pockets turned inside out; but finding nothing therein but scrip, they
were enraged, and falling upon Scapegrace, they kicked, and cuffed, and hustled him up one
row and down another, through this alley and across that court, till at last, being tired of
mocking him, they cast him out of the Fair altogether, and shut the gate against him.

THE ILIAD OF HOMER--BOOK THE FIRST.

IN ENGLISH HEXAMETERS.

[The author of the version of the Last Book of the Iliad, in the Number for March, has been
requested by the editor of this Magazine to give another specimen; and, as he happens to have
the First Book completed, he is happy to comply.

In case any one unacquainted with the original, and familiar with Homer only through the brilliant
rifacimento of Pope, should complain of the redundancies and repetitions which he meets here,
let the writer remind him that the attempt is to render the ancient poet, not only in a measure
framed on the basis of his own, but as nearly as possible with a literal fidelity. Moreover,
be it remembered, that the poem was not composed for readers, but to be sung with the accompaniment
of the harp in festive assemblies of wholly illiterate soldiers; and that, in all probability,
the various speeches introduced were not all chanted by the main voice; but that brother minstrels
from time to time relieved the master, as he himself describes the Muses at the Olympian banquet,
"with sweet voice singing alternate."

The writer received from Messrs Blackwood, with the proof-sheet of the following contribution,
two books of the Iliad, the second and the seventh, done in English hexameters, "by Launcellot
Shadwell, formerly Fellow of St John's College, Cambridge," with the imprint of Mr Pickering,
London, 1844. This gentleman is probably a son of the Vice-Chancellor of England, and, if so,
has been trained in a good school of taste as well as scholarship. But whether his hexameters
have been published, does not appear: the writer had not heard of them before; and he begs
to thank Mr Shadwell for his polite attention.

  LONDON, April 6th.]

  N. N. T.

  Sing, O Goddess! the wrath unblest of Peleian Achilleus,
  Whence the uncountable woes that were heapt on the host of Achaia;
  Whence many valorous spirits of heroes, untimely dissever'd,
  Down unto Hades were sent, and themselves to the dogs were a plunder
  And all fowls of the air; but the counsel of Zeus was accomplish'd:
  Even from the hour when at first were in fierceness of rivalry sunder'd
  Atreus' son, the Commander of Men, and the noble Achilleus.
    Who of the Godheads committed the twain in the strife of contention?
  Leto's offspring and Zeus'; who, in anger against Agamemnon,
  Issued the pestilence dire, and the leaguer was swept with destruction;
  For that the King had rejected, and spurn'd from the place in dishonour
  Chryses, the priest of the God, when he came to the warrior-galleys,
  Willing to rescue his daughter with plentiful gifts of redemption,
  Bearing the fillet divine in his hands of the Archer Apollo
  Twined on the sceptre of gold: and petition'd the host of Achaia,
  Foremost of all the Atreidæ, the twain that were chief in dominion:--
  "Hear, ye Atreidæ! and hear, ye Achaians, resplendent in armour!
  Be it vouchsaf'd unto you of the Gods who inhabit Olympus,
  Priamus' city to storm, and return to your dwellings in gladness!
  But now yield me my daughter belov'd, and accept of the ransom,
  Bearing respect to the offspring of Zeus, Far-darting Apollo."
    Then had it voice of approval from all the array of Achaians
  Duly to honour the priest and accept fair gifts of redemption;
  Only displeas'd in his mind was the King Agamemnon Atreides:
  Stern the rejection from him, and ungentle his word at the parting:--
  "Let me not see thee again, old man, at the station of galleys,
  Lingering wilfully now, nor returning among us hereafter,
  Lest neither sceptre of gold nor the wreath of the God may avail thee.
  Her will I never surrender, be sure, until age has attain'd her
  Far from the land of her birth, in our own habitation of Argos,
  Plying the task of her web and attending the couch of her master.
  Hence with thee! Stir me no more: the return to thy home were the safer."
    So did he speak; and the elder, in terror, obey'd the commandment.
  Silent he went on his way, where the sea-waves roar'd on the sand-beach,
  Till at a distance remote, when the voice of his strong supplication
  Call'd on Apollo the King, that was born of the ringleted Leto:--
  "Hear me, Protector divine, both of Chrysa and beautiful Killa,
  God of the silvery bow, over Tenedos mightily reigning!
  Smintheus! Hear, if my hand ever garnish'd thy glorious temple,
  Crowning the horns of the altar with beauty, and burning before thee
  Fatness of bulls or of goats: hear now, and fulfill my petition.
  Oh, let the Argives atone for my tears by the shafts of thy quiver!"
    So did he speak; and Apollo gave ear to the prayer of his servant.
  He from the peaks of Olympus descended, his bosom in anger,
  Bearing on shoulder the bow and the well-fenc'd girth of his quiver.
  Rattled the arrows therein on the back of the Deity wrathful,
  Step upon step as he moved; but he came like the darkness of Nightfall.
  Then did he seat him apart from the ships, and discharging an arrow,
  Fearful afar was the clang of the silvery bow of Apollo.
    Mules, at the first, were his aim, and the swiftness of dogs was
      arrested;
  But on themselves, right soon, with the sure-wing'd darts of destruction
  Smote he, and wide on the shore was the flame of continual death-fires.
  Nine days' space, on the leaguer the shafts of the Godhead were flying;
  Then, on the tenth, were the people convok'd by the noble Achilleus,
  Mov'd unto this, in his mind, by the Goddess majestical Hera,
  For she was griev'd in her heart at the sight of the dying Achaians.
  But when the host were conven'd, thus spake swift-footed Peleides:--
  "Wand'ring again is our doom, as it seems to my mind, Agamemnon!
  Home to escape as we may, unless death be the issue to welcome,
  Since not the battle alone, but the pestilence wastes the Achaians.
  Come, without witless delay, let some prophet or priest be consulted,
  Yea, or expounder of dreams, (for the dream, too, comes from Kronion,)
  Who may interpret the wrath unrelenting of Phoebus Apollo;
  Whether for forfeited vow we are plagu'd, or for hecatomb wanting:
  If peradventure by savour of lambs or of goats without blemish
  Anger divine may be sooth'd, and the pestilence turn'd from the people."
    He, having spoke, sat down; and arose Thestorian Calchas,
  Prophet supreme among all, in the secrets of augury foremost;
  He that to Ilion's borders conducted the ships of Achaia,
  Such was the lore of the Seer by the blessing of Phoebus Apollo.
  He, with the counsel of wisdom, arose in the midst to address them:--
  "Favour'd of Zens!" he began, "thou commandest me, noble Achilleus,
  Here to interpret the wrath of the King, Far-darting Apollo.
  That will I therefore declare; but vouchsafe me, and swear to confirm it,
  Promptness and constancy true in the word and the hand of protection;
  For when I utter the cause, unto anger, I know, will be kindled
  He that of Argos is lord and obey'd in the host of Achaia.
  Heavy the hand of a king when the humble provokes his resentment;
  Say that he masters his mood, and the day of offending be scatheless,
  Yet shall he nurture the wrath thenceforth, till he perfect the
    vengeance,
  Deep in his bosom within. Speak thou, if the will be to save me."
    This was the answer he had, without pause, from the noble Peleides:--
  "Speak with a confident heart whatsoever thy scrutiny reaches;
  For by Apollo I swear, by the Son of the Highest Kronion,
  None to whom thou shalt discover the truth of prophetical warning,
  Calling the Gods to attest--while I live, and mine eyes are undarken'd,
  None shall, for that revelation, lay hand of oppression upon thee;
  None of the Danäids all that are camp'd by the station of galleys--
  Even if thou name Agamemnon, the first of the host in dominion."
    Then the unblamable Seer took heart, and bespake the Assembly:--
  "Neither for forfeited vow is he wroth, nor for hecatomb wanting;
  But for the sake of his priest, who, dishonour'd by King Agamemnon,
  Pray'd for his daughter in vain, and the gifts that he brought were
    rejected;
  Therefore, the Archer Divine has afflicted, and more will afflict us,
  Nor shall the weight of his hand be remov'd in the pestilence wasting,
  Not till the Dark-eyed Maid is restor'd to the love of her father,
  Free, without ransoming price--and a hecatomb holy to Chrysa
  Sent for atonement of wrong: peradventure we then may appease him."
    He, having spoke, sat down: and anon, in the midst of the princes,
  Rose the heroic Atreides, the wide-sway'd lord, Agamemnon:
  Troubled in visage he rose, for the heart with the blackness of anger
  Swell'd in the breast of the King, and his eyes had the blaze of the
    firebrand.
  First to the Seer did he turn, and austere was the scowl when he nam'd
    him:
  "Prophet of evils! to me never word of thy mouth has been grateful;
  Gladness it sheds ever more on thy spirit to prophesy mischief.
  Never had good its announcement from thee, its accomplishment never!
  Here, then, art thou, with thy sanctified lore, in the leaguer
    proclaiming
  All the afflictions we bear from the anger of Archer Apollo
  Only from this to have sprung, that I gave not the damsel Chrysëis
  Back for the gifts that were brought:--for I valued her more than the
    ransom,
  Will'd her to stay in my home, and preferr'd her before Clytemnestra,
  Her that I wedded a maid--nor in aught would comparison harm her,
  Neither for form nor for face, nor for mind nor the skill of her fingers.
  Yet even so am I willing to yield her, if this be the better:
  Weal I desire for the people, and not their calamity lengthen'd.
  But on the instant make ready a guerdon for me, that of Argives
  I be not prizeless alone--methinks that of a truth were unseemly--
  All of ye witnessing this, that the prize I obtain'd is to leave me."
    Thus to him instantly answer'd the swift-footed noble Peleides:--
  "Foremost in fame, Agamemnon, in greediness, too, thou art foremost.
  Whence can a prize be assign'd by the generous host of Achaia?
  Nowhere known unto us is a treasure of common possessions:
  All that we took with a town was distributed right on the capture;
  Nor is it seemly for states to resume and collect their allotments.
  Render the maid to the God, and expect from the sons of Achaia
  Threefold recompense back, yea fourfold, soon as Kronion
  Grants us to waste and abolish the well-wall'd city of Troia."
    So the Peleides--and thus, in reply, said the King Agamemnon:--
  "Good as thou art in the dealings of battle, most noble Achilleus,
  Try not the engines of craft; to come over me thus is beyond thee.
  This the suggestion forsooth that, thyself being safe with thy booty,
  I shall sit down without mine! I am bid to surrender the damsel:
  This is the word--and 'tis well, if the generous host of Achaia
  Yield me a prize in her stead that is fair and affords me contentment;
  But if ye grant me not this, be it known, I will do myself justice--
  Seizing what Aias obtain'd, or despoiling the tent of Odysseus;
  Yea, peradventure, thine own--whatsoever the rage of the loser.
  These, of a surety, are things to be duly consider'd hereafter;
  Meantime, down to the deep let a black-hull'd galley be hauser'd,
  Oarsmen selected and rang'd, and the hecatomb stow'd for the temple--
  Mine be the care to accomplish the freight with the rosy Chrysëis.
  Last, be some counsellor-chief for command of the galley appointed--
  Whether Idomeneus be it, or Aias, or noble Odysseus,
  Yea, or, Peleides, thyself, among terrible warriors foremost!
  So shall by thee be achiev'd the appeasing of Archer Apollo."
    Dark was the scowl of Achilles the rapid, as thus he made answer:--
  "Oh! thou in impudence clothed! O heart, that is ever on lucre!
  How can the words of thy mouth stir zeal in a single Achaian
  Either to march in thy train, or to stand in the fierceness of onset?
  Truly I came not, for one, out of hate for the spearmen of Troia,
  Hither to battle with them--neither feud nor offence was between us.
  Never Dardanian foray had plunder'd my beeves nor my horses,
  Never on Phthia descending, in Thessaly's bountiful borders,
  Ravag'd the fruits of the field--since betwixt there was many a barrier,
  Shadowy mountains enow, and the roaring expanses of ocean.
  Only to gratify thee, Dog-face! and avenge Menelaus,
  Mov'd us to war upon Troy; and with thee it is counted for nothing!
  Masterful menace instead that by thee my reward shall be ravish'd,
  Won with the sweat of my brow, and assign'd by the sons of Achaia!
  Truly my share of the booty was never with thine to be measur'd
  When the Achaians had sackt any populous town of the Troad:
  Only when shock upon shock the turmoil of the battle was raging,
  Greater the work of my hands; but whenever we reacht the division
  Far did thy portion surpass. Nor has grudging been mine or complaining:
  Weary with warring, and pleas'd with a little, I went to my galley.
  Homeward to Thessaly, now!--I shall profit, I think, by departing--
  Nor if I stay in dishonour, will heaping of plunder oppress thee."
    Thus on the instant replied the Commander of Men, Agamemnon:--
  "Flee, if to that thou be minded: expect not from me a petition
  Here for my service to stop. Beside thee I have some to befriend me
  Now and hereafter: in chief, the Olympian's counselling foresight.
  Hatefullest ever to me hast thou been of the kings of Achaia;
  Nothing delighted thee e'er but contention and battle and bloodshed;
  And if thy strength be unmatcht, it is due to the gift of a Godhead.
  Hence with thee!--hence to thy home flee thou with thy ships and thy
    comrades!
  There over Myrmidons lord it; with me there is small estimation
  Either of thee or thy wrath; and take this for completing my menace:
  Since I am reft of Chrysëis for pleasing of Phoebus Apollo,
  Now, in a ship of mine own, and with men of mine own for attendance,
  Her will I send; but anon will I go and, within thy pavilion,
  Seize on the rosy Brisëis, thy guerdon--instructing thee clearly
  How I surpass thee in power, and that others beside may be cautious
  Neither to match them with me, or confront with the boldness of equals!"
    So did he speak: and the word had a sting; and the heart of Achilleus,
  Under the hair of his bosom, in tearing perplexity ponder'd,
  Whether unsheathing the sword from his thigh, to disperse interveners,
  Clearing the way at a swoop, and to strike at the life of Atreides,
  Or to control his resentment and master the fury within him.
  But as he struggled with thought and the burning confusion of impulse,
  Even as he mov'd in the scabbard his ponderous weapon, Athena
  Stood by, darting from heaven: for the white-arm'd Hera had sent her,
  She that had eyes on them both with a loving and equal concernment.
  Lighting behind him, she graspt at the thick fair curls of Peleides,
  Visible only to him, undiscover'd by all that surrounded.
  Fear on Achilleus fell, and he turn'd to her, instantly knowing
  Pallas Athena, for awful the eyes of the goddess apparent--
  And he address'd her, and these were the air-wing'd words that he
    utter'd.
  "Why hast thou come, O child of the Ægis-bearing Kronion?
  Is it to see me contemn'd by the insolent pride of Atreides?
  This do I promise beside, and thine eyes shall behold it accomplish'd,
  Here where he sits Agamemnon shall pay for his scorn with his
    life-blood."
    This was the answer to him of the blue-eyed Pallas Athena:--
  "Willing to temper thy mood, (if perchance thou be ready to listen,)
  Down from the heavens have I come at the call of majestical Hera,
  Her who has eyes on you both with a loving and equal concernment.
  Therefore from violence cease, nor persist in unsheathing the weapon:
  Wound him with words at thy pleasure--in that let it fall as it chances.
  Only of this be assur'd, for thyself shall behold it accomplish'd,
  Threefold yet shall the King in magnificent gifts of atonement
  Pay for the scorn of to-day; but restrain thee and yield to my warning."
    Thus, in reply to Athena, said instantly noble Achilleus:--
  "Me of a surety beseems it, O Goddess, to bend to thy counsel,
  Fierce as mine anger may be; it is wiser to keep the commandment.
  They that submit to the Gods shall be heard when they make supplication."
    Press'd on the silvery hilt as he spake was the weight of his right
    hand,
  Back to the scabbard returning the terrible blade; nor obedience
  He to Athena refus'd; and she sprang from his side to Olympus,
  Up to the mansion of Zeus, to rejoin the assembly of Godheads.
  Then did Achilles begin to reproach Agamemnon Atreides,
  Hotly with venomous words, for as yet unappeased was his anger:--
  "Bloated with wine! having eyes like a dog, but the heart of a she-deer!
  Never with harness on back to be first when the people were arming,
  Never in dark ambuscado to lie with the few and the fearless,
  Courage exalted thy soul; this seems to thee courtship of death-doom.
  Truly 'tis better by far in the wide-spread Danäid leaguer
  Robbing of guerdon achiev'd whosoe'er contradicts thee in presence!
  People-devouring king! O fortunate captain of cowards--
  Else, Agamemnon, to-day would have witness'd the last of thine outrage!
  But I proclaim it before thee, and great is the oath that shall bind it--
  Now by this rod, which can never put forth or a twig or a leaflet,
  Since it was parted for aye from the root of its growth in the mountains,
  Never to germinate more, in the hour when the brass of the woodman
  Sever'd the bark and the sap: but the chiefs that administer judgment,
  Guarding the law of the Gods, as a sign to the sons of Achaia
  Bear it in hand:--upon this do I swear, and severe is the sanction!
  Rue for Achilles hereafter shall rise in the Danäid leaguer:--
  Bitter the yearning shall be--nor in thee, howsoever afflicted,
  Succour be found at their need--but remorse shall be raging within thee,
  Tearing thy heart that by thee was the best of Achaians dishonour'd."
    Speaking he dash'd on the ground, in the midst of the people, his
    sceptre,
  Garnish'd with circles of gold; down sat thereafter Peleides.
  Opposite rose Agamemnon in wrath; but before he could open,
  Upsprang Nestor between them, the sweet-ton'd spokesman of Pylos:
  Sweeter the speech of his tongue in its flow than the sweetness of honey.