Oh, he was happy. As he rubbed his back with the towel a wonderful glowing Christian charity
spread from his head to his toes and tingled through every inch of him. Helen should sit in
the chair when she pleased; Mary should be allowed to dress and undress the large woollen dog,
known as "Sulks," his own especial and beloved property, so often as she wished; Jampot should
poke the twisted end of the towel in his ears and brush his hair with the hard brushes, and
he would not say a word. Aunt Mary should kiss him (as, of course, she would want to do), and
he would not shiver; he would (bravest deed of all) allow Mary to read "Alice in Wonderland"
in her sing-sing voice so long as ever she wanted... Sausages! Sausages!

In his shirt and his short blue trousers, his hair on end, tugging at his braces, he stood
in the doorway and shouted:

"Helen, there are sausages--because it's my birthday. Aren't you glad?"

And even when the only response to his joyous invitation was Helen's voice crossly admonishing
the Jampot: "Oh, you do pull so; you're hurting!"--his charity was not checked.

Then when he stood clothed and of a cheerful mind once more in front of the fire a shyness
stole over him. He knew that the moment for Presents was approaching; he knew that very shortly
he would have to kiss and be kissed by a multitude of persons, that he would have to say again
and again, "Oh, thank you, thank you so much!" that he would have his usual consciousness of
his inability to thank anybody at all in the way that they expected to be thanked. Helen and
Mary never worried about such things. They delighted in kissing and hugging and multitudes
of words. If only he might have had his presents by himself and then stolen out and said "Thank
you" to the lot of them and have done with it.

He watched the breakfast-table with increasing satisfaction--the large teapot with the red
roses, the dark blue porridge plates, the glass jar with the marmalade a rich yellow inside
it, the huge loaf with the soft pieces bursting out between the crusty pieces, the solid square
of butter, so beautiful a colour and marked with a large cow and a tree on the top (he had
seen once in the kitchen the wooden shape with which the cook made this handsome thing). There
were also his own silver mug, given him at his christening by Canon Trenchard, his godfather,
and his silver spoon, given him on the same occasion by Uncle Samuel.

All these things glittered and glowed in the firelight, and a kettle was singing on the hob
and Martha the canary was singing in her cage in the window. (No one really knew whether the
canary were a lady or a gentleman, but the name had been Martha after a beloved housemaid,
now married to the gardener, and the sex had followed the name.)

There were also all the other familiar nursery things. The hole in the Turkey carpet near the
bookcase, the rocking-horse, very shiny where you sit and very Christmas-tree-like as to its
tail; the doll's house, now deserted, because Helen was too old and Mary too clever; the pictures
of "Church on Christmas Morning" (everyone with their mouths very wide open, singing a Christmas
hymn, with holly), "Dignity and Impudence," after Landseer, "The Shepherds and the Angels,"
and "The Charge of the Light Brigade." So packed was the nursery with history for Jeremy that
it would have taken quite a week to relate it all. There was the spot where he had bitten the
Jampot's fingers, for which deed he had afterwards been slippered by his father; there the
corner where they stood for punishment (he knew exactly how many ships with sails, how many
ridges of waves, and how many setting suns there were on that especial piece of corner wallpaper--three
ships, twelve ridges, two and a half suns); there was the place where he had broken the ink
bottle over his shoes and the carpet, there by the window, where Mary had read to him once
when he had toothache, and he had not known whether her reading or the toothache agonised him
the more; and so on, an endless sequence of sensational history.

His reminiscences were cut short by the appearance of Gladys with the porridge. Gladys, who
was only the between-maid, but was nevertheless stout, breathless from her climb and the sentiment
of the occasion, produced from a deep pocket a dirty envelope, which she laid upon the table.

"Many 'appy returns, Master Jeremy." Giggle... giggle... "Lord save us if I 'aven't gone and
forgotten they spunes," and she vanished. The present-giving had begun.

He had an instant's struggle as to whether it were better to wait until all the presents had
accumulated, or whether he would take them separately as they arrived. The dirty envelope lured
him. He advanced towards it and seized it. He could not read very easily the sprawling writing
on the cover, but he guessed that it said "From Gladys to Master Jeremy." Within was a marvellous
card, tied together with glistening cord and shining with all the colours of the rainbow. It
was apparently a survival from last Christmas, as there was a church in snow and a peal of
bells; he was, nevertheless, very happy to have it.

After his introduction events moved swiftly. First Helen and Mary appeared, their faces shining
and solemn and mysterious--Helen self-conscious and Mary staring through her spectacles like
a profound owl.

Because Jeremy had known Mary ever since he could remember, he was unaware that there was anything
very peculiar about her. But in truth she was a strange looking child. Very thin, she had a
large head, with big outstanding ears, spectacles, and yellow hair pulled back and "stringy."
Her large hands were always red, and her forehead was freckled. She was as plain a child as
you were ever likely to see, but there was character in her mouth and eyes, and although she
was only seven years old, she could read quite difficult books (she was engaged at this particular
time upon "Ivanhoe"), and she was a genius at sums.

The passion of her life, as the family were all aware, was Jeremy, but it was an unfortunate
and uncomfortable passion. She bothered and worried him, she was insanely jealous; she would
sulk for days did he ever seem to prefer Helen to herself. No one understood her; she was considered
a "difficult child," quite unlike any other member of the family, except possibly Samuel, Mr.
Cole's brother-in-law, who was an unsuccessful painter and therefore "odd."

As Mary was at present only seven years of age it would be too much to say that the family
was afraid of her. Aunt Amy's attitude was: "Well, after all, she's sure to be clever when
she grows up, poor child;" and although the parishioners of Mary's father always alluded to
her as "the ludicrous Cole child," they told awed little stories about the infant's mental
capacities, and concluded comfortably, "I'm glad Alice (or Jane or Matilda or Anabel) isn't
clever like that. They overwork when they are young, and then when they grow up--"

Meanwhile Mary led her private life. She attached herself to no one but Jeremy; she was delicate
and suffered from perpetual colds; she therefore spent much of her time in the nursery reading,
her huge spectacles close to the page, her thin legs like black sticks stuck up on the fender
in front of the fire or curled up under her on the window-seat.

Very different was Helen. Helen had a mass of dark black hair, big black eyes with thick eye-lashes,
a thin white neck, little feet, and already an eye to "effects" in dress. She was charming
to strangers, to the queer curates who haunted the family hall, to poor people and rich people,
to old people and young people. She was warm-hearted but not impulsive, intelligent but not
clever, sympathetic but not sentimental, impatient but never uncontrolled. She liked almost
everyone and almost everything, but no one and nothing mattered to her very deeply; she liked
going to church, always learnt her Collect first on Sunday, and gave half her pocket-money
to the morning collection. She was generous but never extravagant, enjoyed food but was not
greedy. She was quite aware that she was pretty and might one day be beautiful, and she was
glad of that, but she was never silly about her looks.

When Aunt Amy, who was always silly about everything, said in her presence to visitors, "Isn't
Helen the loveliest thing you ever saw?" she managed by her shy self-confidence to suggest
that she was pretty, that Aunt Amy was a fool, and life was altogether very agreeable, but
that none of these things was of any great importance. She was very good friends with Jeremy,
but she played no part in his life at all. At the same time she often fought with him, simply
from her real deep consciousness of her superiority to him. She valued her authority and asserted
it incessantly. That authority had until last year been unchallenged, but Jeremy now was growing.
She had, although she did not as yet realise it, a difficult time before her.

Helen and Mary advanced with their presents, laid them on the breakfast-table, and then retreated
to watch the effect of it all.

"Shall I now?" asked Jeremy.

"Yes, now," said Helen and Mary.

There were three parcels, one large and "shoppy," two small and bound with family paper, tied
by family hands with family string. He grasped immediately the situation. The shoppy parcel
was bought with mother's money and only "pretended" to be from his sisters; the two small parcels
were the very handiwork of the ladies themselves, the same having been seen by all eyes at
work for the last six months, sometimes, indeed, under the cloak of attempted secrecy, but
more often--because weariness or ill-temper made them careless--in the full light of day.

His interest was centred almost entirely in the "shoppy" parcel, which by its shape might be
"soldiers"; but he knew the rules of the game, and disregarding the large, ostentatious brown-papered
thing, he went magnificently for the two small incoherent bundles.

He opened them. A flat green table-centre with a red pattern of roses, a thick table-napkin
ring worked in yellow worsted, these were revealed.

"Oh!" he cried, "just what I wanted." (Father always said that on his birthday.)

"Is it?" said Mary and Helen.

"Mine's the ring," said Mary. "It's dirty rather, but it would have got dirty, anyway, afterwards."
She watched anxiously to see whether he preferred Helen's.

He watched them nervously, lest he should be expected to kiss them. He wiped his mouth with
his hand instead, and began rapidly to talk:

"Jampot will know now which mine is. She's always giving me the wrong one. I'll have it always,
and the green thing too."

"It's for the middle of a table," Helen interrupted.

"Yes, I know," said Jeremy hurriedly. "I'll always have it too--like Mary's--when I'm grown
up and all.... I say, shall I open the other one now?"

"Yes, you can," said Helen and Mary, ceasing to take the central place in the ceremony, spectators
now and eagerly excited.

But Mary had a last word.

"You do like mine, don't you?"

"Of course, like anything."

She wanted to say "Better than Helen's?" but restrained herself.

"I was ever so long doing it; I thought I wouldn't finish it in time."

He saw with terror that she meditated a descent upon him; a kiss was in the air. She moved
forward; then, to his extreme relief, the door opened and the elders arriving saved him.

There were Father and Mother, Uncle Samuel and Aunt Amy, all with presents, faces of birthday
tolerance and "do-as-you-please-to-day, dear" expressions.

The Rev. Herbert Cole was forty years of age, rector of St. James's, Polchester, during the
last ten years, and marked out for greater preferment in the near future. To be a rector at
thirty is unusual, but he had great religious gifts, preached an admirable "as-man-to-man"
sermon, and did not believe in thinking about more than he could see. He was an excellent father
in the abstract sense, but the parish absorbed too much of his time to allow of intimacies
with anyone.

Mrs. Cole was the most placid lady in Europe. She had a comfortable figure, but was not stout,
here a dimple and there a dimple. Nothing could disturb her. Children, servants, her husband's
sermons, district visiting, her Tuesday "at homes," the butcher, the dean's wife, the wives
of the canons, the Polchester climate, bills, clothes, other women's clothes--over all these
rocks of peril in the sea of daily life her barque happily floated. Some ill-natured people
thought her stupid, but in her younger days she had liked Trollope's novels in the Cornhill,
disapproved placidly of "Jane Eyre," and admired Tennyson, so that she could not be considered
unliterary.

She was economical, warm-hearted, loved her children, talked only the gentlest scandal, and
was a completely happy woman--all this in the placidest way in the world. Miss Amy Trefusis,
her sister, was very different, being thin both in her figure and her emotions. She skirted
tempestuously over the surface of things, was the most sentimental of human beings, was often
in tears over reminiscences of books or the weather, was deeply religious in a superficial
way, and really--although she would have been entirely astonished had you told her so--cared
for no one in the world but herself. She was dressed always in dark colours, with the high
shoulders of the day, elegant bonnets and little chains that jingled as she moved. In her soul
she feared and distrusted children, but she did not know this. She did know, however, that
she feared and distrusted her brother Samuel.

Her brother Samuel was all that the Trefusis family, as a conservative body who believed in
tradition, had least reason for understanding. He had been a failure from the first moment
of his entry into the Grammar School in Polchester thirty-five years before this story. He
had continued a failure at Winchester and at Christ Church, Oxford. He had desired to be a
painter; he had broken from the family and gone to study Art in Paris. He had starved and starved,
was at death's door, was dragged home, and there suddenly had relapsed into Polchester, lived
first on his father, then on his brother-in-law, painted about the town, painted, made cynical
remarks about the Polcastrians, painted, made blasphemous remarks about the bishop, the dean
and all the canons, painted, and refused to leave his brother-in-law's house. He was a scandal,
of course; he was fat, untidy, wore a blue tam-o'-shanter when he was "out," and sometimes
went down Orange Street in carpet slippers.

He was a scandal, but what are you to do if a relative is obstinate and refuses to go? At least
make him shave, say the wives of the canons. But no one had ever made Samuel Trefusis do anything
that he did not want to do. He was sometimes not shaved for three whole days and nights. At
any rate, there he is. It is of no use saying that he does not exist, as many of the Close
ladies try to do. And at least he does not paint strange women; he prefers flowers and cows
and the Polchester woods, although anything less like cows, flowers and woods, Mrs. Sampson,
wife of the Dean, who once had a water-colour in the Academy, says she has never seen. Samuel
Trefusis is a failure, and, what is truly awful, he does not mind; nobody buys his pictures
and he does not care; and, worst taste of all, he laughs at his relations, although he lives
on them. Nothing further need be said.

To Helen, Mary and Jeremy he had always been a fascinating object, although they realised,
with that sharp worldly wisdom to be found in all infants of tender years, that he was a failure,
a dirty man, and disliked children. He very rarely spoke to them; was once quite wildly enraged
when Mary was discovered licking his paints. (It was the paints he seemed anxious about, not
in the least the poor little thing's health, as his sister Amy said), and had publicly been
heard to say that his brother-in-law had only got the children he deserved.

Nevertheless Jeremy had always been interested in him. He liked his fat round shape, his rough,
untidy grey hair, his scarlet slippers, his blue tam-o'-shanter, the smudges of paint sometimes
to be discovered on his cheeks, and the jingling noises he made in his pocket with his money.
He was certainly more fun than Aunt Amy.

There, then, they all were with their presents and their birthday faces.

"Shall I undo them for you, darling?" of course said Aunt Amy. Jeremy shook his head (he did
not say what he thought of her) and continued to tug at the string. He was given a large pair
of scissors. He received (from Father) a silver watch, (from Mother) a paint-box, a dark blue
and gold prayer book with a thick squashy leather cover (from Aunt Amy).

He was in an ecstasy. How he had longed for a watch, just such a turnip-shaped one, and a paint-box.
What colours he could make! Even Aunt Amy's prayer book was something, with its squashy cover
and silk marker (only why did Aunt Amy never give him anything sensible?). He stood there,
his face flushed, his eyes sparkling, the watch in one hand and the paint-box in the other.
Remarks were heard like: "You mustn't poke it with, your finger, Jerry darling, or you'll break
the hands off"; and "I thought he'd, better have the square sort, and not the tubes. They're
so squashy"; and "You'll be able to learn your Collect so easily with that big print, Jerry
dear. Very kind of you, Amy."

Meanwhile he was aware that Uncle Samuel had given him nothing. There was a little thick catch
of disappointment in his throat, not because he wanted a present, but because he liked Uncle
Samuel. Suddenly, from somewhere behind him his uncle said: "Shut your eyes, Jerry. Don't open
them until I tell you"--then rather crossly, "No, Amy, leave me alone. I know what I'm about,
thank you."

Jeremy shut his eyes tight. He closed them so that the eyelids seemed to turn right inwards
and red lights flashed. He stood there for at least a century, all in darkness, no one saying
anything save that once Mary cried "Oh!" and clapped her hands, which same cry excited him
to such a pitch that he would have dug his nails into his hands had he not so consistently
in the past bitten them that there were no nails with which to dig. He waited. He waited. He
waited. He was not eight, he was eighty when at last Uncle Samuel said, "Now you may look."

He opened his eyes and turned; for a moment the nursery, too, rocked in the unfamiliar light.
Then he saw. On the middle of the nursery carpet was a village, a real village, six houses
with red roofs, green windows and white porches, a church with a tower and a tiny bell, an
orchard with flowers on the fruit trees, a green lawn, a street with a butcher's shop, a post
office, and a grocer's. Villager Noah, Mrs. Noah and the little Noahs, a field with cows, horses,
dogs, a farm with chickens and even two pigs...

He stood, he stared, he drew a deep breath.

"It comes all the way from Germany," said Aunt Amy, who always made things uninteresting if
she possibly could.

There was much delighted talk. Jeremy said nothing. But Uncle Samuel understood.

"Glad you like it," he said, and left the room.

"Aren't you pleased?" said Helen.

Jeremy still said nothing.

"Sausages. Sausages!" cried Mary, as Gladys, grinning, entered with a dish of a lovely and
pleasant smell. But Jeremy did not turn. He simply stood there--staring.

III

It is of the essence of birthdays that they cannot maintain throughout a long day the glorious
character of their early dawning. In Polchester thirty years ago there were no cinematographs,
no theatre save for an occasional amateur performance at the Assembly Rooms and, once and again,
a magic-lantern show. On this particular day, moreover, Mr. and Mrs. Cole were immensely busied
with preparations for some parochial tea. Miss Trefusis had calls to make, and, of course,
Uncle Samuel was invisible. The Birthday then suddenly became no longer a birthday but an ordinary
day--with an extraordinary standard. This is why so many birthdays end in tears.

But Jeremy, as was usual with him, took everything quietly. He might cry aloud about such an
affair as the conquest of the wicker chair because that did not deeply matter to him, but about
the real things he was silent. The village was one of the real things; during all the morning
he remained shut up in his soul with it, the wide world closed off from them by many muffled
doors. How had Uncle Samuel known that he had deep in his own inside, so deep that he had not
mentioned it even to himself, wanted something just like this? Thirty years ago there were
none of the presents that there are for children now--no wonderful railways that run round
the nursery from Monte Carlo to Paris with all the stations marked; no dolls that are so like
fashionable women that you are given a manicure set with them to keep their nails tidy; no
miniature motor-cars that run of themselves and go for miles round the floor without being
wound up. Jeremy knew none of these things, and was the happier that he did not. To such a
boy such a village was a miracle.... It had not come from Germany, as Aunt Amy said, but from
heaven. But it was even more of Uncle Samuel than the village that he was thinking. When they
started--Helen, Mary and he in charge of the Jampot--upon their afternoon walk, he was still
asking himself the same questions. How had Uncle Samuel known so exactly? Had it been a great
trouble to bring from so far away? Had Uncle Samuel thought it bad of him not to thank him?

He was lost in such considerations when the Jampot inquired of him the way that their walk
should take--it was his choice because it was his Birthday. He had no choice. There was one
walk that far exceeded all others in glory, straight down Orange Street, straight again through
the Market, past the Assembly Rooms and the Town Hall, past the flower and fruit stalls, and
the old banana woman under the green umbrella and the toy stall with coloured balloons, the
china dogs and the nodding donkeys, up the High Street, into the cobble-stones of the Close,
whence one could look down, between the houses on to the orchards, round the Cathedral with
the meadows, Pol Meads sloping down to the river, so through Orchard Lane into Orange Street
once again.

Such a walk combined every magic and delight known to the heart of man, but it was not generally
allowed, because Jeremy would drag past the shops, the stalls in the Market Place and the walk
behind the Cathedral, whence one might sometimes see boats on the river, sheep and cows in
the meads, and, in their proper season, delight of delights--lambs.

They set out...

Thirty years ago the winter weather in Polchester was wonderful. Now, of course, there are
no hard winters, no frost, no snow, no waits, no snowmen, and no skating on the Pol. Then there
were all those things. To-day was of a hard, glittering frost; the sun, like a round, red lacquer
tray, fell heavily, slowly through a faint pale sky that was not strong enough to sustain it.
The air had the cold, sweet twang of peppermints in the throat. Polchester was a painted town
upon a blue screen, the Cathedral towers purple against the sky; the air was scented with burning
leaves, and cries from the town rose up clear and hard, lingering and falling like notes of
music. Somewhere they were playing football, and the shouting was distant and regular like
the tramp of armed men. "Three" struck the Cathedral clock, as though it were calling "Open
Sesame." Other lesser clocks repeated the challenge cry through the town. "Woppley--Woppley--Why!"
sung the man who was selling skins down Orange Street. The sky, turning slowly from blue to
gold, shone mysteriously through the glass of the street lamps, and the sun began to wrap itself
in tints of purple and crocus and iris.

"Woppley--Woppley--Why!" screamed the skin-man suddenly appearing at the top of the street.

"Now 'urry, Master Jeremy," said the Jampot, "or we shall never get 'ome this night, and I
might have known you'd choose the longest walk possible. Come along, Miss Mary, now--none of
that dawdling."

Jeremy, in his H.M.S. Adventure's cap and rough blue navy coat, felt himself superior to the
Jampot, so he only said, "Oh, don't bother, Nurse," and then in the same breath, "I'll run
you down the hill, Mary," and before anyone could say a word there they were at the bottom
of Orange Street, as though they had fallen into a well. The sun was gone, the golden horizon
was gone--only the purple lights began to gather about their feet and climb slowly the high
black houses.

Mary liked this, because she now had Jeremy to herself. She began hurriedly, so that she should
lose no time:

"Shall I tell you a story, Jeremy? I've got a new one. Once upon a time there were three little
boys, and they lived in a wood, and an old witch ate them, and the Princess who had heaps of
jewellery and a white horse and a lovely gold dress came, and it was snowing and the witch--"

This was always Mary's way. She loved to tell Jeremy interesting stories, and he did not mind
because he did not listen and could meanwhile think his own thoughts.

His chief decision arrived at as he marched along was that he would keep the village to himself;
no one else should put their fingers into it, arrange the orchard with the coloured trees,
decide upon the names of the Noah family, settle the village street in its final order, ring
the bell of the church, or milk the cows. He alone would do all these things. And, so considering,
he seemed to himself very like God. God, he supposed, could pull Polchester about, root out
a house here, another there, knock the Assembly Rooms down and send a thunderbolt on to the
apple woman's umbrella. Well, then--so could he with his village. He walked swollen with pride.
He arrived at the first Island of Circe, namely, the window of Mr. Thompson, the jeweller in
Market Street, pressed his nose to the pane, and refused to listen when the Jampot suggested
that he should move forward.

He could see the diamonds like drops of water in the sun, and the pearls like drops of milk,
and the rubies like drops of blood, but it was not of diamonds, pearls or rubies that he was
thinking--he thought only of his village. He would ring the church bell, and then all the Noah
family should start out of the door, down the garden, up the village street... It did not matter
if one of the younger Noahs should be lazy and wish to stay at home beneath the flowering trees
of the orchard. She would not be allowed... He was as God.. . He was as God... The butcher
should go (if he was not stuck to his shop), and even some of his cows might go.... He was
as God...

He heard Mary's voice in his ear.

"And after that they all ate chocolates with white cream and red cream, and they sucked it
off pins, and there were hard bits and soft bits, and the Princess (she was a frog now. You
remember, don't you, Jeremy? The witch turned her) hotted the oven like cook has, with black
doors, and hotted it and hotted it, but suddenly there was a noise--"

And, on the other side, the Jampot's voice: "You naughty boy, stoppin' 'ere for everyone to
see, just because it's your birthday, which I wish there wasn't no birthdays, nor there wouldn't
be if I had my way."

Jeremy turned from Mr. Thompson's window, a scornful smile on his face:

"I'm bigger'n you, Nurse," he said. "If I said out loud, 'I won't go,' I wouldn't go, and no
one could make me."

"Well, come along, then," said Nurse.

"Don't be so stupid, Jerry," said Helen calmly. "If a policeman came and said you had to go
home you'd have to go."

"No I wouldn't," said Jeremy.

"Then they'd put you in prison."

"They could."

"They'd hang you, perhaps."

"They could," replied Jeremy.

Farther than this argument cannot go, so Helen shrugged her shoulders and said: "You are silly."

And they all moved forward.

He found then that this new sense or God-like power detracted a little from the excitements
of the Market Place, although the flower-stall was dazzling with flowers; there was a new kind
of pig that lifted its tail and lowered it again on the toy stall, and the apple-woman was
as fat as ever and had thick clumps of yellow bananas hanging most richly around her head.
They ascended the High Street and reached the Close. It was half-past three, and the Cathedral
bells had begun to ring for evensong. All the houses in the Close were painted with a pale
yellow light; across the long green Cathedral lawn thin black shadows like the fingers of giants
pointed to the Cathedral door. All was so silent here that the bells danced against the houses
and back again, the echoes lingering in the high elms and mingling with the placid cooing of
the rooks.

"There's Mrs. Sampson," said Jeremy. "Aunt Amy says she's a wicked woman. Do you think she's
a wicked woman, Nurse?" He gazed at the stout figure with interest. If he were truly God he
would turn her into a rabbit. This thought amused him, and he began to laugh.

"You naughty boy; now come along, do," said the Jampot, who distrusted laughter in Jerry.

"I'll ring the bells when I grow up," he said, "and I'll ring them in the middle of the night,
so that everyone will have to go to church when they don't want to. I'll be able to do what
I like when I grow up."

"No, you won't," said Helen. "Father and Mother can't do what they like."

"Yes they can," said Jeremy.

"No they can't," answered Helen, "or they would."

"So they do," said Jeremy--"silly."

"Silly yourself," said Helen very calmly, because she knew very well that she was not silly.

"Now, children, stop it, do," said the Jampot.

Jeremy's sense of newly received power reached its climax when they walked round the Close
and reached the back of the Cathedral. I know that now, both for Jeremy and me, that prospect
has dwindled into its proper grown-up proportions, but how can a man, be he come to threescore
and ten and more, ever forget the size, the splendour, the stupendous extravagance of that
early vision?

