A being planted above man, taking root where he blooms, in the pure affections, flowering in
the high airs which he dreams of but sees not, or sees only in moments of inspiration from
her--a being, who, more complex on her physical side, is therefore more affluent on her spiritual--who,
from the established premises of science, demands not new, but the very largest deductions
to reach the borders of her life--a being whose support with the earth-life is widened and
strengthened by each added organ, function, susceptibility--whose divine support is opened,
established, confirmed in increased degrees over man's by each womanly inlet to the spiritual
nature--I see such a being irradiating the future years and paths of my race, and my soul grows
strong and glad at the sight. In her the self-love of man is replaced by love; ambition pales
its ineffectual fires in the light of that pure, undying flame of aspiration which her soul
feeds; patriotism, ashamed of its narrowness, unfolds shining pinions over humanity, and becomes
philanthropy; pleasure retreats in her wornout, patched-up harlequin robes; and happiness,
pure, clean, bright from the sweet inner chambers of the soul, takes her place.

Life acknowledges a higher fealty. With the new sovereign, new aims, new standards, new methods
for the improvement of humanity.

Under the masculine dynasty we have had force, organization, investigation, discovery, experiment--methods
violent, harsh, selfish, slow, confused, chaotic: a magnanimous career at intervals spanning
the wide weltering strife, as a bow the stormy heavens; noble deeds, not a few, shining out
of the darkness here and there; real victory crowning the crests of the rolling sea now and
then, and casting where they have shone long shadows over the waters darkened with selfish
contention around them. Power under this reign has been applied to the multiplication of external
resources, means, opportunities for the race. It has clothed the earth with them in forms so
numerous, so varied--so good, so bad, so indifferent--so noble, so mean--so rich, so poor--so
high, so low, that the most active memory of the longest life fails to furnish the catalogue
of them. It professes human good; it cultivates personal good, family good, community good,
or, at the largest, national good. But whatever the stature it attains, its methods are through
external appeals to the soul--influences from without. Its common theology steadily refused
for eighteen hundred years to credit the union of the divine with the human in the soul of
mankind. Its deductive intellect is blind to truth till her presence is proved by facts--as
if we would hale an archangel, with the shining light of the upper world yet flowing adown
him, before the police magistrate, and swear the butchers and the newsboys on the question
of identity. Its Art is timid, thin, and self-distrusting, because the Ideal is flouted as
worthy only of women, dreamers, and liberal ministers--the silver wing of imagination is rarely
loosed but to be soon folded in humiliation before the reproof of the exacting senses. Its
statesmanship is smart, crafty, treacherous, because it cherishes a state, a nation, rather
than humanity. Its jurisprudence is a gigantic, vigilant detective, dealing with a population
of suspects. Its physical methods only are uniformly clear, honorable, straight-forward though.
Even these in times and places might be nobler, more open; but it fights well, labors well,
cultivates well, invents well, manufactures well, because in these it is dealing chiefly between
its native elements, force and matter;--but being characteristically inductive, it cannot deal
liberally with human nature, lacking the ideal of it, the faith in it, the reverence for it
which are the only sustaining root of such behavior toward it.

Under the new sovereignty, the methods, like the power employing them, will have their nearest
relations with the interior life. They will draw helps from the outward; and here the glory
of man as a creator of conditions and opportunities, will be first measured and fully appreciated,
for it is the woman only who can penetrate his works, draw thence their full significance and
value, transmute their evils to goods, and incorporate their best spirit in humanity. It is
a great thing to create that which helps any human soul to be diviner than without such help
it would be. It is greater to develop conditions which establish and confirm true relations
between the soul and its helps. It is greatest to create the soul to be divine--with helps,
or in spite of hindrances. The first is eminently the office of the masculine. The second is
shared between it and the feminine, with a preponderance to the latter; and the last belongs
so exclusively to woman, that the day of its doing is necessarily the day of her sovereignty.

The divine, artistic, harmonious creation of the human spirit in the divine, artistic, harmonious
human body, this is the grand function of the feminine era. For this it is that woman has those
special finer endowments which in all ages have distinguished her from man, and foreshown a
higher life for her in some future--some Beulah, visible to eyes that could o'ershoot the bounds
of the passing age. Wanting this power, preparing the day of its advent, John Baptist has toiled,
sweated, groaned, fumed, devastated in his wilderness, to touch its hither border at last in
this pregnant nineteenth century. Age of revolution--age of wonders!--of which the very greatest
are, I think, the beginnings we already see of settlement here. As a question, that of woman
is not an old one. There can be no Woman Question among any people till it is advanced enough
to ask for better methods than man's. When this stage is reached, life is ripe for the advent
of woman--it appeals to her to come forward. It prepares better conditions, that it may invite
her--opens fields, that it may engage her powers--seeks to clothe her in a real dignity, of
which she has before worn rather the semblance than itself. Society, obeying the higher view
of her, enacts new laws for her enlargement, modifies or sets aside social canons which restricted
and warped and suppressed her, and begins with these movements to find itself enriched by the
presence of finer influences; led upward to more exalted standards, penetrated with a subtler
humane sentiment than it before knew.

Yet with all these movements in her favor, woman, bone of man's bone, remains a bone of contention
to him, till nature, read truly and trusted reverently, is allowed to lead him as a little
child by the hand and show him woman's real kingdom. He must not look on it with a timid or
a grudging eye. A Chinese mandarin in California, becoming acquainted with the fact that American
women could read and write and be trusted with accounts, replied, with a warning shake of the
head, 'If he readee, writee, by and by he lickee all the men.' Does this apprehension possibly
extend beyond the Celestial Empire? It will not be expressed, I know, but there is much unexpressed
feeling which is none the less real for its silence.

'Every woman is an embodied revolution, now-a-days,' said a lank, grumbling dyspeptic, while
the autumn leaves of '62 yet hung in bright profusion on the bordering forests of the Hudson.
'If you had said every woman is in these days an embodied revelation,' was the superb reply,
'you would have done both truth and my sex more even justice.' Man must not fear woman, for
whatever nature designed for her is not only inevitable, but is his only means of salvation.
He need not fear her, for she is the daughter of nature, so full of loyalty and filial devotion
to her mother, that no wide or continued departure from her designs is possible. He will not
fear her when he is religious enough to feel that each natural revolution is a step in the
march upward, ordered in its season as calmly and inexorably as were the secondary rocks laid
down when the primary had been prepared for receiving them, as the nebulous vapor is consolidated
into a planet or sun, or the morning-glory brought forth of its sown seed. He will be comforted,
too, by remembering that natural revolution does never dethrone. It only enthrones above the
present ruler. Work out your kingdom. Define and fill its bounds and metes, and never will
usurper's foot print its soil. No invasion of your sovereignty is possible. The magnetisms
of the universe hold you there, and every other being outside--an infallible police, bent on
the protection of your rights, charged to secure them to you without so much as a flaw in their
finest edges. Nature knows your kingdom, and charges all yet unsettled parties to go aside.
But in the coming cycles she will develop others above it.

The wheel revolves. You can only remain at the summit by its standing still. It is not your
degradation, but another's glory, that is sought. Open your eyes to the scheme: look adown
its vistas of grandeur, and at every step taken above you, you will sing, Hosanna! We also
rise by your ascent.

LITERARY NOTICES

MYSTERIES OF LIFE, DEATH, AND FUTURITY. By HORACE WELBY. New York: James S. Gregory.

A very suggestive book, full of manifold and curious research. The author, in his preface,
says: 'It has been undertaken with the view of concentrating within its focus the views and
opinions of some of the leading writers of the present day, and, by placing them before the
reader in a popular form and setting, adapt them for a larger class than would be likely to
consult the authorities themselves whence the substance of this volume has been derived. In
virtue of the Scriptural character of the subjects, the rewards will be a special blessing
on those who read and understand them; the interpretations and inferences, in many instances,
being the deductions of men venerated for their piety and learning in ministering the most
precious of all knowledge--the inestimable comfort of the hope that is in us.'

The work which the author proposed to himself has been well done. A single glance at the index
would be sufficient to assure the reader of the great variety of subjects embraced in these
carefully selected extracts. Although from so many different sources, a unity of subject gives
them unity of interest. The book contains a valuable array of the best thoughts, impressions,
and beliefs of the most distinguished minds on the phenomena of life, death, and futurity. 1863.

The name of Miss Mulock is sufficient guarantee that the little ones will find abundance of
entertainment, and no harmful matter in the pretty 'Fairy Book' published by Harper & Brothers.
The tales are well selected and well told. Bits of quaint humor are interspersed through the
narratives, increasing their interest to both old and young, and lightening the labor of the
'reader out' by many a pleasant smile. Mothers cannot fail to find this judicious collection
an assistance in their labors, and an agreeable addition to the library of their young people.

LETTERS FROM ITALY AND SWITZERLAND. By FELIX MENDELSSOHN-BARTHOLDY. Translated from the German
by LADY WALLACE, with a Biographical Notice by JULIE DE MARGUERITTES. Published by Frederick
Leypoldt, Philadelphia. 1863. For sale by F. W. Christern, 763 Broadway, New York, and A. K.
Loring, 319 Washington Street, Boston.

Again are we indebted to Mr. Leypoldt for a delightful book, a truthful record of feeling from
the hand of a man noted for purity of life, scholarship, and an enviable reputation in the
world of music. The letters are such as we should expect from the character of Mendelssohn's
compositions--pure, elegant, fanciful, flowing, serious, and dignified, but without the passionate
intensity, the soul-searching pathos and energy characterizing spirits deeply acquainted with
the bitterest griefs incident to humanity, griefs arising either from without or within. Rich,
handsome, and happily married, he was not exposed to the many privations and trials generally
pertaining to artist life; his amiable character drew round him many friends, and his wealth
enabled him to bring out his works during his own lifetime, and thus make them known under
the most favorable auspices. He was indeed, as Goethe said of him, 'born on a lucky day.' The
translation is beautifully executed, and we hope the tasteful little volume may receive a substantial
welcome from our reading public.

LILIAN. Published by Ticknor & Fields, Boston. For sale by D. Appleton & Co., New York.

This is a novel of considerable ability. The story is exciting and interesting, the scenes
varied, the descriptions vivid, and the denouement well imagined and sustained. There are no
dull pages in the book. There is much to praise, but something also to regret. There is a want
of calm, of continuity in the style. The sentences are short and closely cut, falling upon
the ear more like the broken rattling of hailstones than the full flowing music of a strong
deep river. Such a style, introduced at proper intervals and in appropriate positions, is frequently
very effective; but, when long continued, it grows wearisome and monotonous. As our late writers
are much given to it, they should be on their guard lest it become a national characteristic.

OUT-DOOR PAPERS. By THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. For sale by D. Appleton
& Co., New York.

The articles contained in this book are: Saints and their Bodies; Physical Courage; A Letter
to a Dyspeptic; The Murder of the Innocents; Barbarism and Civilization; Gymnastics; A New
Counterblast; The Health of Our Girls; April Days; My Out-Door Study; Water Lilies; The Life
of Birds; The Procession of the Flowers; Snow.

This work was received by us too late to give it, in our July number, that meed of attention
and praise so justly its due. Fortunately it requires no words from us to introduce it to notice;
some of its articles, having been already published in the Atlantic Monthly, are already known
to and valued by some of the highest minds among us. The book is written by an ardent admirer
but close observer of nature, and is full of tender traceries, of rainbow-hued fancies, and
marked by the keen insight of a glowing and far-reaching imagination. The chapter on 'Snow'
is one of the most exquisite things ever written, pure, chaste, and delicately cut as the starry
crystals it so lovingly commemorates. Nor is the 'Procession of the Flowers' less admirable.
In all their simple loveliness they rise from earth, and bloom before us as we read. Writers
of such high finish, such delicate perceptions of beauty as T. W. Higginson, are seldom characterized
by great originality--his expletives and imagery are as original as tender and beautiful. His
illustrations are never morbid, but ever strong and healthful. If he be, as we have been informed
he is, the Colonel Higginson now acting in the service of his country, Heaven preserve the
life of the patriot, poet, and scholar--for such men are jewels in our national crown of glory!

IN THE TROPICS. 1863.

A 'Settler in Santo Domingo' has given us a good book--a fresh, wholesome, and evidently truthful
narrative of his every-day experience in the tropics. It is a book eminently sui generis, reminding
one of Robinson Crusoe or Dana's 'Two Years before the Mast.' There is a gentle earnestness,
a mild yet positive concentration of purpose about it, that enlists our sympathies from the
start. The young farmer's mind is on his work. We suspect he has capacities outside of his
cornfield and yuca patch, but to this point in the record before us he gives no clue. He is
a farmer, and nothing else. The bright-winged birds flit and gleam and twitter in the evergreen
woods about him, but his hand is on the plough and his ear drinks in only the music of his
panting team. From his window, looking eastward, he sees the advance beams of the sun flung
across the savanna: he takes the hint, and hurries out to look after his young plantains. At
night the sea keeps up its everlasting chant by the side of his palenca, and the pure stars
watch over his humble roof; yet, unconscious of both, he sleeps on the calm deep sleep appointed
as the best recompense of honest toil.

The author of 'In the Tropics' is a young man born and reared on a farm in the interior of
the State of New York, who was afterward condemned to what seemed to him the perpetual servitude
of a clerk's life in the city. Weary and heart-sick he yearns for a better existence. Not little
Nell beseeching her grandfather to leave the dark rooms and melancholy houses of her abhorrence,
and go out into the open country and sleep in fields and under trees and have the sun and wind
upon their faces, has a more intense loathing of the dull, artificial routine of town life
than he. His escape is easily managed, and his transition to the cheerful freedom of a widely
different career is so speedy and so satisfying that he is in no mood to dwell upon the monotonous
past. We get an estimate of the bondage from which he has fled by the tone of pleasant surprise
and buoyant gratitude with which he welcomes the commonest gifts of mother nature. He is as
impressible as a schoolboy let loose for the long vacation.

There is a vein of loving trustfulness pervading his narrative that is really touching. Our
young, vigorous, and hearty settler, glorying in his privilege to struggle, achieve, and conquer
difficulties, is too proud to be ashamed of his dependence on Him who appointed the planets
to their courses, and is not unmindful of a sparrow's fall. How fine and delicately tender
is this retrospective glance at the close of his monthly record for April!

     'Four months have fled away like a busy though pleasant dream since
     I laid myself down to my first night's repose in my homestead. The
     Giver of all good gifts has crowned my poor efforts with his tender
     mercies, and as I look up from these pages through the arcade of
     fruit-bearing trees and onward to the gentle hill-slope now green
     with springing corn, and beautiful in the promise of future
     abundance, I feel a perfect and grateful trust--far, far too deep
     for my weak powers of utterance--that He will never forsake the
     humble laborer in this fair field of His creation.'

And he is instructive withal. His book is a perfect vade mecum for beginners in tropical farming.
To such it is literally 'guide, counsellor, and friend.' Colonists going out to Santo Domingo
will do well to include a copy in their outfit, and, as far as practicable, follow in the footsteps
of their sturdy and genial predecessor.

The reader need not expect to find in this work a sensation story. It is anything but that.
Neither, being exclusively descriptive of the beneficent arts of peace, can it in any sense
come under the head of what is termed war literature. Yet it is safe to affirm that without
the great rebellion this book had never been written. It is full of novel, picturesque, and
widely suggestive ideas. Some of its statements tear away old fallacies as by a cannon ball.
For instance, where the young settler states as matter of experience:

     'Those who say the treasures of the tropics are to be best won by
     the brute force of ignorant labor, cannot have studied with
     sufficient patience the march of invention. Intelligent laborers,
     men who know how to make wood and iron do their harvest work to the
     sparing of human sinews, men who can work steam in harness, these
     are what is wanted here. Those, too, are mistaken who fancy that no
     skin but a black one can cover the firm muscle and vigorous
     endurance of a perfect and hardy manhood. The most manly workers I
     have seen in this country are white men. They know how to obtain
     and use the best class of labor-saving machines, and they trust no
     one but themselves to manage them, for they know that superior
     implements and the recklessness of brute force don't work well
     together. Under the warm sun of the tropics white men and machinery
     will yet open the grandest field of civilization.'

This goes to confirm us in the opinion we have long entertained and advanced in these pages,
that the result of the great political change we are now undergoing will be for the benefit
of white men. It has been so often asserted that only black men can work in the tropics, that
people have come to acquiesce in the statement without investigation. The record of this work
is to the point in helping to dispel so widespread a delusion.

Whoever, at this delightful season, wishes to enjoy a book written in pure, gushing English,
attuned to the gentle harmonies of nature, and be refreshed by sympathy with its kind and grateful
spirit, will not fail to read 'In the Tropics.'

HARPER'S PICTORIAL HISTORY OF THE GREAT REBELLION IN THE UNITED STATES.

This work is issued in semi-monthly numbers, at twenty-five cents per number, appearing about
the first and fifteenth of each month. The introduction contains a succinct account of the
formation of the Confederacy of the States; the formation and adoption of the Constitution
of the United States, and the establishment of the National Government; the origin, development,
and progress of the doctrines of nullification and secession, and the various phases which
they assumed until their final culmination in the Great Rebellion.

The illustrations comprise portraits of those who have borne a prominent part in the struggle;
maps of the different localities; plans of the leading actions; views of scenes of interest
and of the most important battles.

The work is profusely and graphically illustrated, and we think this serial cannot fail to
become popular. We learn much and readily through the eye, and the importance of faithfully
executed pictures can scarcely be overestimated. The portraits given in the work are portraits,
and not caricatures. It contains a careful, comprehensive, and minute record of the progress
of the war, and is written with ability and spirit. It promises to be impartial, accurate,
and artistic.

THE NORTH PACIFIC REVIEW. A Journal of Literature, History, Science, Correspondence, and Fine
Arts. San Francisco: Dalgleish & Co., publishers and proprietors.

The Continental extends a warm greeting to her sister of the West, feeling not only the strong
bonds of the literary amenities, but the far stronger ties of patriotism and loyalty, so ably
defined in the opening article of the North Pacific. Loyalty is indeed something more than
fidelity to one's country and Government, based upon a sense of interest or of obligation:
it is fidelity based upon love.

Young and glorious West! May such loyalty ever distinguish you, and such feelings link in close
and ever closer union the children of the Atlantic and Pacific shores! On the maintenance of
such love hangs the whole future of humanity!

SANDERS' UNION FOURTH READER; embracing a full Exposition of the Principles of Rhetorical Reading,
with numerous exercises for practice, both in prose and poetry, various in style, and carefully
adapted to the purposes of teaching in schools of every grade. By CHARLES W. SANDERS, A.M.
New York: Ivison, Phinney & Co.

A valuable aid to scholar and teacher. The selections have been made with great care, and give
evidence of refined taste, and, while perfectly adapted for practice in rhetorical reading,
are admirably calculated to quicken the moral perceptions and awaken the finer sensibilities
of the scholar.

RECEIVED.

A book apparently of great erudition and research. Being received too late for reading, and
reviewing in the July number of THE CONTINENTAL, it is our intention to return to it in our
August issue.

EDITOR'S TABLE.

MATTER AND SPIRIT.

We do not ordinarily feel disposed to criticize the articles of our contributors; nor do we
feel disposed now to do more than to offer a brief suggestion in reference to a philosophical
position assumed by the author of an interesting article in our last number, entitled, 'TOUCHING
THE SOUL.' The writer assumes that matter and spirit are so utterly opposite in their respective
natures that they cannot be made to act together in any way. The actual existence of the soul
in the body, and the perception of physical objects and effects by the senses, are proofs undeniable
that in this instance, at least, there are mutual action and reaction between matter and spirit.
If it be said that this connection of the soul with the organized frame is the only condition
in which the material and immaterial are known to be capable of acting upon each other, it
is yet wholly inaccurate and unphilosophical to say that this mutual action is impossible.

But, in truth, the assertion is unphilosophical and incorrect in a far wider sense, and in
reference to a much more extensive range of phenomena than those which concern the mysterious
relations of the soul with the human body. Throughout all nature are to be seen the plainest
indications of the influence and operation of spirit on the material world. Indeed it is doubtful
whether any other than spiritual power is to be found anywhere in nature. It seems to be too
obvious a truth to admit of any doubt or question, that matter, if it be of a nature opposite
to that of spirit, has been created as the instrument of soul, having properties suited to
the harmonious coöperation of the two, in their respective purposes in nature. To represent
matter as something wholly antagonistic to spirit and incapable of any relations with it, is
to ignore all our own experience, and the significance of all the grand phenomena of nature.

