28th.--My whole thoughts were now occupied in devising some scheme to obtain a hut in the palace,
not only the better to maintain my dignity, and so gain superior influence in the court, but
also that I might have a better insight into the manners and customs of these strange people.
I was not sorry to find the king attempting to draw me to court, daily to sit in attendance
on him as his officers were obliged to do all day long, in order that he might always have
a full court or escort whenever by chance he might emerge from his palace, for it gave me an
opening for asserting my proper position.

Instead, therefore, of going at the call of his pages this morning I sent Bombay with some
men to say that although I was desirous of seeing him daily, I could not so expose myself to
the sun. In all other countries I received, as my right, a palace to live in when I called
on the king of my country, and unless he gave one now I should feel slighted; moreover, I should
like a hut in the same enclosure as himself, when I could sit and converse with him constantly,
and teach him the use of the things I had given him. By Bombay's account, the king was much
struck with the force of my humble request, and replied that he should like to have Bana, meaning
myself, ever by his side, but his huts were all full of women, and therefore it could not be
managed; if, however, Bana would but have patience for a while, a hut should be built for him
in the environs, which would be a mark of distinction he had never paid to any visitor before.
Then changing the subject by inspecting my men, he fell so much in love with their little red
"fez" caps, that he sent off his pages to beg me for a specimen, and, on finding them sent
by the boys, he remarked, with warm approbation, how generous I was in supplying his wishes,
and then, turning to Bombay, wished to know what sort of return-presents would please me best.
Bombay, already primed, instantly said, "Oh, Bana, being a great man in his own country, and
not thirsting for gain in ivory or slaves, would only accept such things as a spear, shield,
or drum, which he could take to his own country as a specimen of the manufactures of Uganda,
and a pleasing recollection of his visit to the king."

"Ah," says Mtesa, "if that is all he wants, then indeed will I satisfy him, for I will give
him the two spears with which I took all this country, and, when engaged in so doing, pierced
three men with one stab.

"But, for the present, is it true what I have heard, that Bana would like to go out with me
shooting?" "Oh yes, he is a most wonderful sportsman--shoots elephants and buffaloes, and birds
on the wing. He would like to go out on a shooting excursion and teach you the way."

Then turning the subject, in the highest good-humour the king made centurions of N'yamgundu
and Maula, my two Wakungu, for their good service, he said, in bringing him such a valuable
guest. This delighted them so much that as soon as they could they came back to my camp, threw
themselves at my feet, and n'yanzigging incessantly, narrated their fortunes, and begged, as
a great man, I would lend them some cows to present to the king as an acknowledgement for the
favour he had shown them. The cows, I then told them, had come from the king, and could not
go back again, for it was not the habit of white men to part with their presents; but as I
felt their promotion redounded on myself, and was certainly the highest compliment their king
could have paid me, I would give them each a wire to make their salaam good.

This was enough; both officers got drunk, and, beating their drums, serenaded the camp until
the evening set in, when, to my utter surprise, an elderly Mganda woman was brought into camp
with the commander-in-chief's metaphorical compliments, hoping I would accept her "to carry
my water"; with this trifling addition, that in case I did not think her pretty enough, he
hoped I would not hesitate to select which I liked from ten others, of "all colours," Wahuma
included, who, for that purpose, were then waiting in his palace.

Unprepared for this social addition in my camp, I must now confess I felt in a fix, knowing
full well that nothing so offends as rejecting an offer at once, so I kept her for the time
being, intending in the morning to send her back with a string of blue beads on her neck; but
during the night she relieved me of my anxieties by running away, which Bombay said was no
wonder, for she had obviously been seized as part of some confiscated estate, and without doubt
knew where to find some of her friends.

To-day, for the first time since I have been here, I received a quantity of plantains. This
was in consequence of my complaining that the king's orders to my men to feed themselves at
others' expense was virtually making them a pack of thieves.

1st.--I received a letter from Grant, dated 10th February, reporting Baraka's departure for
Unyoro on the 30th January, escorted by Kamrasi's men on their return, and a large party of
Rumanika's bearing presents as a letter from their king; whilst Grant himself hoped to leave
Karague before the end of the month. I then sent Bombay to see the queen, to ask after her
health, beg for a hut in the palace enclosures, and say I should have gone myself, only I feared
her gate might be shut, and I cannot go backwards and forwards so far in the sun without a
horse or an elephant to ride upon. She begged I would come next morning. A wonderful report
came that the king put two tops of powder into his Whitworth rifle to shoot a cow, and the
bullet not only passed through the cow, but through the court fence, then through the centre
of a woman, and, after passing the outer fence, flew whizzing along no one knew where.

2d.--Calling on the queen early, she admitted me at once, scolding me severely for not having
come or sent my men to see her after she had taken the pills. She said they did her no good,
and prevailed on me to give her another prescription. Then sending her servant for a bag full
of drinking-gourds, she made me select six of the best, and begged for my watch. That, of course,
I could not part with; but I took the opportunity of telling her I did not like my residence;
it was not only far away from everybody, but it was unworthy of my dignity. I came to Uganda
to see the king and queen, because the Arabs said they were always treated with great respect;
but now I could perceive those Arabs did not know what true respect means. Being poor men,
they thought much of a cow or goat given gratis, and were content to live in any hovels. Such,
I must inform her, was not my case. I could neither sit in the sun nor live in a poor man's
hut. When I rose to leave for breakfast, she requested me to stop, but I declined, and walked
away. I saw, however, there was something wrong; for Maula, always ordered to be in attendance
when anybody visits, was retained by her order to answer why I would not stay with her longer.
If I wanted food or pombe, there was plenty of it in her palace, and her cooks were the cleverest
in the world; she hoped I would return to see her in the morning.

3d.--Our cross purposes seemed to increase; for, while I could not get a satisfactory interview,
the king sent for N'yamgundu to ascertain why I had given him good guns and many pretty things
which he did not know the use of, and yet I would not visit him to explain their several uses.
N'yamgundu told him I lived too far off, and wanted a palace. After this I walked off to see
N'yamasore, taking my blankets, a pillow, and some cooking-pots to make a day of it, and try
to win the affections of the queen with sixteen cubits bindera, three pints peke, and three
pints mtende beads, which, as Waganda are all fond of figurative language, I called a trifle
for her servants.

I was shown in at once, and found her majesty sitting on an Indian carpet, dressed in a red
linen wrapper with a gold border, and a box, in shape of a lady's work-box, prettily coloured
in divers patters with minute beads, by her side. Her councillors were in attendance; and in
the yard a band of music, with many minor Wakungu squatting in a semicircle, completed her
levee. Maula on my behalf opened conversation, in allusion to her yesterday's question, by
saying I had applied to Mtesa for a palace, that I might be near enough both their majesties
to pay them constant visits. She replied, in a good hearty manner, that indeed was a very proper
request, which showed my good sense, and ought to have been complied with at once; but Mtesa
was only a Kijana or stripling, and as she influenced all the government of the country, she
would have it carried into effect. Compliments were now passed, my presents given and approved
of; and the queen, thinking I must be hungry, for she wanted to eat herself, requested me to
refresh myself in another hut. I complied, spread my bedding, and ordered in my breakfast;
but as the hut was full of men, I suspended a Scotch plain, and quite eclipsed her mbugu curtain.

Reports of this magnificence at once flew to the queen, who sent to know how many more blankets
I had in my possession, and whether, if she asked for one, she would get it. She also desired
to see my spoons, fork, and pipe--an English meerschaum, mounted with silver; so, after breakfast,
I returned to see her, showed her the spoons and forks, and smoked my pipe, but told her I
had no blankets left but what formed my bed. She appeared very happy and very well, did not
say another word about the blankets, but ordered a pipe for herself, and sat chatting, laughing,
and smoking in concert with me.

I told her I had visited all the four quarters of the globe, and had seen all colours of people,
but wondered where she got her pipe from, for it was much after the Rumish (Turkish) fashion,
with a long stick. Greatly tickled at the flattery, she said, "We hear men like yourself come
to Amara from the other side, and drive cattle away." "The Gallas, or Abyssinians, who are
tall and fair, like Rumanika," I said, "might do so, for they live not far off on the other
side of Amara, but we never fight for such paltry objects. If cows fall into our hands when
fighting, we allow our soldiers to eat them, while we take the government of the country into
our hands." She then said, "We hear you don't like the Unyamuezi route, we will open the Ukori
one for you." "Thank your majesty," said I, in a figurative kind of speech to please Waganda
ears; and turning the advantage of the project on her side, "You have indeed hit the right
nail on the head. I do not like the Unyamuezi route, as you may imagine when I tell you I have
lost so much property there by mere robbery of the people and their kings. The Waganda do not
see me in a true light; but if they have patience for a year or two, until the Ukori road is
open, and trade between our respective countries shall commence, they will then see the fruits
of my advent; so much so, that every Mganda will say the first Uganda year dates from the arrival
of the first Mzundu (white) visitor. As one coffee-seed sown brings forth fruit in plenty,
so my coming here may be considered." All appreciated this speech, saying, "The white man,
he even speaks beautifully! beautifully! beautifully! beautifully!" and, putting their hands
to their mouths, they looked askance at me, nodding their admiring approval.

The queen and her ministers then plunged into pombe and became uproarious, laughing with all
their might and main. Small bugu cups were not enough to keep up the excitement of the time,
so a large wooden trough was placed before the queen and filled with liquor. If any was spilt,
the Wakungu instantly fought over it, dabbing their noses on the ground, or grabbing it with
their hands, that not one atom of the queen's favour might be lost; for everything must be
adored that comes from royalty, whether by design or accident. The queen put her head to the
trough and drank like a pig from it, and was followed by her ministers. The band, by order,
then struck up a tune called the Milele, playing on a dozen reeds, ornamented with beads and
cow-tips, and five drums, of various tones and sizes, keeping time. The musicians dancing with
zest, were led by four bandmasters, also dancing, but with their backs turned to the company
to show off their long, shaggy, goat-skin jackets, sometimes upright, at other times bending
and on their heels, like the hornpipe-dancers or western countries.

It was a merry scene, but soon became tiresome; when Bombay, by way of flattery, and wishing
to see what the queen's wardrobe embraced, told her, Any woman, however ugly, would assume
a goodly appearance if prettily dressed; upon which her gracious majesty immediately rose,
retired to her toilet-hut, and soon returned attired in a common check cloth, and abrus tiara,
a bead necklace, and with a folding looking-glass, when she sat, as before, and was handed
a blown-glass cup of pombe, with a cork floating on the liquor, and a napkin mbugu covering
the top, by a naked virgin. For her kind condescension in assuming plain raiment, everybody,
of course, n'yanzigged. Next she ordered her slave girls to bring a large number of sambo (anklets),
and begged me to select the best, for she liked me much. In vain I tried to refuse them: she
had given more than enough for a keepsake before, and I was not hungry for property; still
I had to choose some, or I would give offence. She then gave me a basket of tobacco, and a
nest of hen eggs for her "son's" breakfast. When this was over, the Mukonderi, another dancing-tune,
with instruments something like clarionets, was ordered; but it had scarcely been struck up,
before a drenching rain, with strong wind, set in and spoilt the music, though not the playing--for
none dared stop without an order; and the queen, instead of taking pity, laughed most boisterously
over the exercise of her savage power as the unfortunate musicians were nearly beaten down
by the violence of the weather.

When the rain ceased, her majesty retired a second time to her toilet-hut, and changed her
dress for a puce-coloured wrapper, when I, ashamed of having robbed her of so many sambo, asked
her if she would allow me to present her with a little English "wool" to hang up instead of
her mbugu curtain on cold days like this. Of course she could not decline, and a large double
scarlet blanket was placed before her. "Oh, wonder of wonders!" exclaimed all the spectators,
holding their mouths in both hands at a time--such a "pattern" had never been seen here before.
It stretched across the hut, was higher than the men could reach--indeed it was a perfect marvel;
and the man must be a good one who brought such a treasure as this to Uddu. "And why not say
Uganda?" I asked. "Because all this country is called Uddu. Uganda is personified by Mtesa;
and no one can say he has seen Uganda until he has been presented to the king."

As I had them all in a good humour now, I complained I did not see enough of the Waganda--and
as every one dressed so remarkably well, I could not discern the big men from the small; could
she not issue some order by which they might call on me, as they did not dare do so without
instruction, and then I, in turn, would call on them? Hearing this, she introduced me to her
prime minister, chancellor of exchequer, women-keepers, hangmen, and cooks, as the first nobles
in the land, that I might recognise them again if I met them on the road. All n'yanzigged for
this great condescension, and said they were delighted with their guest; then producing a strip
of common joho to compare it with my blanket, they asked if I could recognise it. Of course,
said I, it is made in my country, of the same material, only of coarser quality, and everything
of the same sort is made in Uzungu. Then, indeed, said the whole company, in one voice, we
do like you, and your cloth too--but you most. I modestly bowed my head, and said their friendship
was my chief desire.

This speech also created great hilarity; the queen and councillors all became uproarious. The
queen began to sing, and the councillors to join in chorus; then all sang and all drank, and
drank and sang, till, in their heated excitement, they turned the palace into a pandemonium;
still there was not noise enough, so the band and drums were called again, and tomfool--for
Uganda, like the old European monarchies, always keeps a jester--was made to sing in the gruff,
hoarse, unnatural voice which he ever affects to maintain his character, and furnished with
pombe when his throat was dry.

Now all of a sudden, as if a devil had taken possession of the company, the prime minister
with all the courtiers jumped upon their legs, seized their sticks, for nobody can carry a
spear when visiting, swore the queen had lost her heart to me, and running into the yard, returned,
charging and jabbering at the queen; retreated and returned again, as if they were going to
put an end to her for the guilt of loving me, but really to show their devotion and true love
to her. The queen professed to take this ceremony with calm indifference, but her face showed
that she enjoyed it. I was not getting very tired of sitting on my low stool, and begged for
leave to depart, but N'yamasore would not hear of it; she loved me a great deal too much to
let me go away at this time of day, and forthwith ordered in more pombe. The same roystering
scene was repeated; cups were too small, so the trough was employed; and the queen graced it
by drinking, pig-fashion, first, and then handing it round to the company.

Now, hoping to produce gravity and then to slip away, I asked if my medicines had given her
any relief, that I might give her more to strengthen her. She said she could not answer that
question just yet; for though the medicine had moved her copiously, as yet she had seen no
snake depart from her. I told her I would give her some strengthening medicine in the morning:
for the present, however, I would take my leave, as the day was far gone, and the distance
home very great; but though I dragged my body away, my heart would still remain here, for I
loved her much.

This announcement took all by surprise; they looked at me and then at her, and looked again
and laughed, whilst I rose, waved my hat, and said, "Kua heri, Bibi" (good-bye, madam). On
reaching home I found Maribu, a Mkungu, with a gang of men sent by Mtesa to fetch Grant from
Kitangule by water. He would not take any of my men with him to fetch the kit from Karague,
as Mtesa, he said, had given him orders to find all the means of transport; so I gave him a
letter to Grant, and told him to look sharp, else Grant would have passed the Kitangule before
he arrived there. "Never mind," says Maribu, "I shall walk to the mouth of the Katonga, boat
it to Sese island, where Mtesa keeps all his large vessels, and I shall be at Kitangule in
a very short time."

4th.--I sent Bombay off to administer quinine to the queen; but the king's pages, who watched
him making for her gateway, hurried up to him, and turned him back by force. He pleaded earnestly
that I would flog him if he disobeyed my orders, but they would take all the responsibility--the
king had ordered it; and then they, forging a lie, bade him run back as fast as he could, saying
I wanted to see the king, but could not till his return. In this way poor Bombay returned to
me half-drowned in perspiration. Just then another page hurried in with orders to bring me
to the palace at once, for I had not been there these four days; and while I was preparing
to express the proper amount of indignation at this unceremonious message, the last impudent
page began rolling like a pig upon my mbugued or carpeted floor, till I stormed and swore I
would turn him out unless he chose to behave more respectfully before my majesty, for I was
no peddling merchant, as he had been accustomed to see, and would not stand it; moreover, I
would not leave my hut at the summons of the king or anybody else, until I chose to do so.

This expression of becoming wrath brought every one to a sense of his duty; and I then told
them all I was excessively angry with Mtesa for turning back my messenger; nobody had ever
dared do such a thing before, and I would never forgive the king until my medicines had been
given to the queen. As for my going to the palace, it was out of the question, as I had been
repeatedly before told the king, unless it pleased him to give me a fitting residence near
himself. In order now that full weight should be given to my expressions, I sent Bombay with
the quinine to the king, in company with the boys, to give an account of all that had happened;
and further, to say I felt exceedingly distressed I could not go to see him constantly--that
I was ashamed of my domicile--the sun was hot to walk in; and when I went to the palace, his
officers in waiting always kept me waiting like a servant--a matter hurtful to my honour and
dignity. It now rested with himself to remove these obstacles. Everybody concerned in this
matter left for the palace but Maula, who said he must stop in camp to look after Bana. Bombay
no sooner arrived in the palace, and saw the king upon his throne, than Mtesa asked him why
he came? "By the instructions of Bana," was his reply--"for Bana cannot walk in the sun; no
white man of the sultan's breed can do so."

Hearing this, the king rose in a huff, without deigning to reply, and busied himself in another
court. Bombay, still sitting, waited for hours till quite tired, when he sent a boy in to say
he had not delivered half my message; he had brought medicine for the queen, and as yet he
had no reply for Bana. Either with haughty indifference, or else with injured pride at his
not being able to command me at his pleasure, the king sent word, if medicine is brought for
the queen, then let it be taken to her; and so Bombay walked off to the queen's palace. Arrived
there, he sent in to say he had brought medicine, and waited without a reply till nightfall,
when, tired of his charge, he gave the quinine into N'yamgundu's hands for delivery, and returned
h home. Soon after, however, N'yamgundu also returned to say the queen would not take the dose
to-day, but hoped I would administer it personally in the morning.

Whilst all this vexations business had been going on in court--evidently dictated by extreme
jealousy because I showed, as they all thought, a preference for the queen--Maula, more than
tipsy, brought a Mkungu of some standing at court before me, contrary to all law--for as yet
no Mganda, save the king's pages, had ever dared enter even the precincts of my camp. With
a scowling, determined, hang-dog-looking countenance, he walked impudently into my hut, and
taking down the pombe-suckers the queen had given me, showed them with many queer gesticulations,
intended to insinuate there was something between the queen and me. Among his jokes were, that
I must never drink pombe excepting with these sticks; if I wanted any when I leave Uganda,
to show my friends, she would give me twenty more sticks of that sort if I liked them; and,
turning from verbal to practical jocularity, the dirty fellow took my common sucker out of
the pot, inserted one of the queen's, and sucked at it himself, when I snatched and threw it away.

Maula's friend, who, I imagined, was a spy, then asked me whom I liked most--the mother or
the son; but, without waiting to hear me, Maula hastily said, "The mother, the mother of course!
he does not care for Mtesa, and won't go to see him." The friend coaxingly responded, "Oh no;
he likes Mtesa, and will go and see him too; won't you?" I declined, however, to answer from
fear of mistake, as both interpreters were away. Still the two went on talking to themselves,
Maula swearing that I loved the mother most, whilst the friend said, No, he loves the son,
and asking me with anxious looks, till they found I was not to be caught by chaff, and then,
both tired, walked away--the friend advising me, next time I went to court, to put on an Arab's
gown, as trousers are indecent in the estimation of every Mganda.

5th.--Alarmed at having got involved in something that looked like court intrigues, I called
up N'yamgundu; told him all that happened yesterday, both at the two courts and with Maula
at home; and begged him to apply to the king for a meeting of five elders, that a proper understanding
might be arrived at; but instead of doing as I desired, he got into a terrible fright, calling
Maula, and told me if I pressed the matter in this way men would lose their lives. Meanwhile
the cunning blackguard Maula begged for pardon; said I quite misunderstood his meaning; all
he had said was that I was very fortunate, being in such favour at court, for the king and
queen both equally loved me.

N'yamgundu now got orders to go to Karague overland for Dr K'yengo; but, dreading to tell me
of it, as I had been so kind to him, he forged a falsehood, said he had leave to visit his
home for six days, and begged for a wire to sacrifice to his church. I gave him what he wanted,
and away he went. I then heard his servants had received orders to go overland for Grant and
K'yengo; so I wrote another note to Grant, telling him to come sharp, and bring all the property
by boat that he could carry, leaving what he could not behind in charge of Rumanika.

At noon, the plaguy little imps of pages hurried in to order the attendance of all my men fully
armed before the king, as he wished to seize some refractory officer. I declined this abuse
of my arms, and said I should first go and speak to the king on the subject myself, ordering
the men on no account to go on such an errand; and saying this, I proceeded towards the palace,
leaving instructions for those men who were not ready to follow. As the court messengers, however,
objected to our going in detachments, I told Bombay to wait for the rest, and hurry on to overtake
me. Whilst lingering on the way, every minute expecting to see my men, the Wazinza, who had
also received orders to seize the same officer, passed me, going to the place of attack, and,
at the same time, I heard my men firing in a direction exactly opposite to the palace. I now
saw I had been duped, and returned to my hut to see the issue. The boys had deceived us all.
Bombay, tricked on the plea of their taking him by a short cut to the palace, suddenly found
himself with all the men opposite the fenced gardens that had to be taken--the establishment
of the recusant officer,--and the boys, knowing how eager all blacks are to loot, said, "Now,
then, at the houses; seize all you can, sparing nothing--men, women, or children, mbugus or
cowries, all alike--for it is the order of the king;" and in an instant my men surrounded the
place, fired their guns, and rushed upon the inmates. One was speared forcing his way through
the fence, but the rest were taken and brought triumphantly into my camp. It formed a strange
sight in the establishment of an English gentleman, to see my men flushed with the excitement
of their spoils, staggering under loads of mbugu, or leading children, mothers, goats, and
dogs off in triumph to their respective huts. Bombay alone, of all my men, obeyed my orders,
touching nothing; and when remonstrated with for having lead the men, he said he could not
help it--the boys had deceived him in the same way as they had tricked me.

It was now necessary that I should take some critical step in African diplomacy; so, after
ordering all the seizures to be given up to Maula on behalf of the king, and threatening to
discharge any of my men who dared retain one item of the property, I shut the door of my hut
to do penance for two days, giving orders that nobody but my cook Ilmas, not even Bombay, should
come near me; for the king had caused my men to sin--had disgraced their red cloth--and had
inflicted on me a greater insult than I could bear. I was ashamed to show my face. Just as
the door was closed, other pages from the king brought the Whitworth rifle to be cleaned, and
demanded an admittance; but no one dared approach me, and they went on their way again.

6th.--I still continued to do penance. Bombay, by my orders, issued from within, prepared for
a visit to the king, to tell him all that had happened yesterday, and also to ascertain if
the orders for sending my men on a plundering mission had really emanated from himself, when
the bothering pages came again, bringing a gun and knife to be mended. My door was found shut,
so they went to Bombay, asked him to do it, and told him the king desired to know if I would
go shooting with him in the morning. The reply was, "No; Bana is praying to-day that Mtesa's
sins might be forgiven him for having committed such an injury to him, sending his soldiers
on a mission that did not become them, and without his sanction too. He is very angry about
it, and wished to know if it was done by the king's orders." The boys said, "Nothing can be
done without the king's orders." After further discussion, Bombay intimated that I wished the
king to send me a party of five elderly officers to counsel with, and set all disagreeables
to rights, or I would not go to the palace again; but the boys said there were no elderly gentlemen
at court, only boys such as themselves. Bombay now wished to go with them before the king,
to explain matters to him, and to give him all the red cloths of my men, which I took from
them, because they defiled their uniform when plundering women and children; but the boys said
the king was unapproachable just them, being engaged shooting cows before his women. He then
wished the boys to carry the cloth; but they declined, saying it was contrary to orders for
anybody to handle cloth, and they could not do it.

Chapter XII. Palace, Uganda--Continued

Continued Diplomatic Difficulties--Negro Chaffing--The King in a New Costume--Adjutant and
Heron Shooting at Court--My Residence Changed--Scenes at Court--The Kamraviona, or Commander-in-Chief--Quarrels--Confidential
Communications with the King--Court Executions and Executioners--Another Day with the Queen.

7th.--The farce continued, and how to manage these haughty capricious blacks puzzled my brains
considerably; but I felt that if I did not stand up now, no one would ever be treated better
hereafter. I sent Nasib to the queen, to explain why I had not been to see her. I desired to
do so, because I admired her wisdom; but before I went I must first see the king, to provide
against any insult being offered to me, such as befell Bombay when I sent him with medicine.
Having despatched him, I repaired again to the palace. In the antechamber I found a number
of Wakungu, as usual, lounging about on the ground, smoking, chatting, and drinking pombe,
whilst Wasoga amused them singing and playing on lap-harps, and little boys kept time on the
harmonicon.

