It was an awe-inspiring spectacle. Between sidewalks jammed with silent and morose citizens,
the Pan-Antis passed like a conquering army. The terrible Bishop, the man who had put military
discipline into the ranks of his mighty organization, rode his horse as the Kaiser would have
liked to ride entering Paris. His small, bitter, fanatical face wore a deeply carved sneer.
His great black beard flapped in the breeze, and he sang as he rode. Behind him came huge floats
depicting in startling tableaux the hideous menace of the gooseberry. Bands blared and crashed.
Then, rank on rank, as far as eye could see, followed the zealots in their garments of white.
Each one, it was noticed, carried a neat knapsack. Huge tractors rumbled along, groaning beneath
a tonnage of tracts which were shot into the watching crowd by pneumatic guns. Banners whipped
and fluttered.

The sound of shrill chanting vibrated in the blazing air like a visible wave of power. These
were conquerors of a nation, and they knew it. A former bartender, standing in the front of
the crowd, caught Chuff's merciless gaze, wavered, and swooned. A retired distiller, sitting
in the window of the Brass Rail Club, fell dead of apoplexy.

Bleak trembled with nervousness. Had Quimbleton hoaxed him? What could halt this mighty pageant
now? He was about to telephone to his city editor to go ahead with the one o'clock edition
as originally planned....

From the sky came a roar of engines that drowned for a moment the thundering echoes of the
parade. The three gray planes, which had been circling far above, swooped down almost to a
level with the tops of the buildings. One of these, a huge two-seated bomber, passed directly
over Bleak's head. He craned upward, and caught a glimpse of what he thought at first was a
white pennant trailing over the bulwark of the cockpit. A snowy shag of whiskers came tossing
down through the air and fell in his lap. It was Quimbleton's beard, torn from its moorings
by the tug of wind-pressure. Bleak thrust it quickly in his pocket. As the great plane passed
over the head of the parade, flying dangerously low, every face save that of the iron-willed
Bishop was turned upward. But even in their curiosity the rigid discipline of the Pan-Antis
prevailed. Now they were singing, to the tune of "The Old Gray Mare."

    Old John Barleycorn, he ain't what he used to be
    AIN'T WHAT HE USED TO BE--
    AIN'T WHAT HE USED TO BE!
    Old John Barleycorn, he ain't what he used to be,
    Many a year ago.

The great volume of gusty sound, hurled aloft by these thousands of sky-pointing mouths, created
an air-pocket in which the bombing plane tilted dangerously. For a moment, Bleak, who was watching
the plane, thought it was going to careen into a tail-spin and crash down fatally. Then he
saw Quimbleton, still recognizable by an adhering shred of whisker, lean over the side of the
fuselage.

A small dark object dropped through the air, fell with a loud POP on the street a few yards
in front of the Bishop. A faint green vapor arose, misting for a moment the proud figures of
Chuff and his horse. At the same instant the other two planes, throbbing down the line of the
parade, discharged a rain of similar projectiles along the vacant strip of paving between the
marching chuffs and the police-lined curb. An eddying emerald fume filled the street, drifting
with the brisk air down through all the ranks of the procession. There were shouts and screams;
the clanging bands squawked discordantly.

"Holy cat!" shouted the cartoonist--"Poison gas!"

"Nix!" said Bleak, revealing Quimbleton's secret in his excitement. "Gooseberry bombs. Every
chuff that inhales it will be properly soused. Oh, boy, some story! Look at the Bish! He's
got a snootful already--his face has turned black!"

"The whole crowd has turned black," said the cartoonist, almost falling off his perch in a
frantic effort to see more clearly through the olive haze that filled the street.

It was true. Above the thousands of white figures, as they emerged from the intoxicating cloud-bank
of gooseberry gas, grinned ghastly, inhuman, blackened faces, with staring goggle eyes. The
Bishop was most frightful of all. His horse was prancing and swaying wildly, and the Bishop's
transformed features were diabolic. His whole profile had altered, seemed black and shapeless
as the face of a tadpole. The amazing truth burst upon Bleak. Chuff and his paraders were wearing
gas-masks. These were what they had carried in their knapsacks. Indomitable Chuff, who had
foreseen everything!

"Poor Quimbleton," said Bleak. "This will break his heart!"

"His neck too, I fancy," said one of the others, pointing to the sky, and indeed one of the
three planes was seen falling tragically to earth behind the tower of the City Hall.

The cloud of gas was rapidly drifting off down the Boulevard, and through the exhilarating
and delicious fog the Pan-Antis waved their defiant banners unscathed. The progress of the
parade, however, was halted by the behavior of the Bishop's horse, for which no mask had been
provided. The noble animal, under this sudden and extraordinary stimulus, was almost human
in its actions. At first it stood, whinneying sharply, and pawing the air with one forefoot--as
though feeling for the brass rail, as one of Bleak's companions said. It raised its head proudly,
with open mouth and expanded nostrils. Then, dashing off across the broad street, it seemed
eager to climb a lamp-post, and only the fierce restraint of the Bishop held it in. One of
the chuffs (perhaps only lukewarm in loyalty), ran up and offered to give his mask to the horse,
but was sternly motioned back to the ranks by the infuriated leader, who was wildly wrestling
to gain control of the exuberant animal. At last the horse solved the problem by lying down
in the street, on top of the Bishop, and going to sleep. An ambulance, marked Federal Home
for Inebriates, Cana, N.J., dashed up with shrilling gong. This had been arranged by Quimbleton,
who had wired a requisition for an ambulance to remove one intoxicated bishop. As the Bishop
was quite in command of his faculties, the horse, after some delay, was hoisted into the ambulance
instead. The Bishop was given a dusting, and the parade proceeded. The self-control of the
police alone averted prolonged and frightful disorder, for when the conduct of the horse was
observed thousands of spectators fought desperately to get through the ropes and out into the
fumes that still lingered in wisps and whorls of green vapor. Others tore off their coats and
attempted to bag a few cubic inches of the gas in these garments. But the police, with a devotion
to duty that was beyond praise, kept the mob in check and themselves bore the brunt of the
lingering acid. Only one man, who leaped from an office-window with an improvised parachute,
really succeeded in getting into the middle of the Boulevard, and he refused to be ejected
on the ground that he was chief of the street-cleaning department. This department, by the
way, was given a remarkable illustration of the fine public spirit of the citizens, for by
three o'clock in the afternoon two hundred thousand applications had been received from those
eager to act as volunteer street-cleaners and help scour the Boulevard after the passage of
the great parade.

CHAPTER IV

THE GREAT WAR BEGINS

As the echoes of the parade died away, public excitement was roused to fever by the discovery
that evening of an infernal machine in the City Hall. Leaning against one of the great marble
pillars in the lobby of the building, a gleaming object (looking very much like a four-inch
shrapnel shell) was found by a vigilant patrolman. To his horror he found it to be one of the
much-dreaded thermos bottles. Experts from the Bureau of Rumbustibles were summoned, and the
bomb was carefully analyzed. Much to the disappointment of the chief inspector, the devilish
ingredients of the explosive had been spoiled by immersion in a pail of water, so his examination
was purely theoretical; but it was plain that the leading component of this hellish mixture
had been nothing less than gin, animated by a fuse of lemon-peel. If the cylinder had exploded,
unquestionably every occupant of the City Hall would have been intoxicated.

The conduct of the municipal officials in this crisis was extremely courageous. No one knew
whether other articles of this kind might not be concealed about the building, but the Mayor
and councilmen refused to go home, and even assisted in the search for possible bombs. Secret
service men were called from Washington, and went into consultation with Bishop Chuff. It was
a night of uproar. A reign of terror was freely predicted, and many prominent citizens sat
up until after midnight on the chance of discovering similar explosives concealed about their
premises.

The morning papers rallied rapidly to the cause of threatened civilization. The Daily Circumspect
declared, editorially:--

The alcoholsheviks have at last thrown down the gauntlet. The news that the ginarchists have
placed a ginfernal machine in the very shrine of law and order is tantamount to a declaration
of war upon sobriety as a whole. A canister of forbidden design, filled with the deadliest
gingredients, was found in the corridor leading to the bureau of marriage licenses in the City
Hall. There must have been something more than accident in its discovery just in this spot.
Men of thoughtful temper will do well to heed the symbolism of this incident. Plainly not only
the constitution of the United States is to be made a quaffing-stock, but the very sanctity
of the marriage bond is assailed. To this form of terrorism there is but one answer.

In the meantime, Quimbleton had disappeared. The house on Caraway Street was broken into by
the police, but except for the grape arbor and a great quantity of empty bottles in the cellar,
no clue was found. Apparently, however, the vanished ginarchist (for so Chuff called him) had
been writing poetry before his departure. The following rather inscrutable doggerel was found
scrawled on a piece of paper:--

    When Death doth reap
    And Chuff is sickled,
    He will not keep:
    He was never pickled.

    For Bishop Chuff
    This is ill cheer:
    That Time will force him
    To the bier.

    And when he stands
    On his last legs
    Then Death will drain him
    To the dregs.

    So when Chuff croaks
    Bury him on a high hill--
    For he's a hoax
    Et praeterea nihil!

But Bishop Chuff was not the man to take these insults tamely. His first act was to call together
the legislature of the State in special session, and the following act was rushed through:

AN ACT

Severing relations with Nature, and amending the principles and processes of the same in so
far as they contravene the Constitution of the United States and the tenets of the Pan-Antis:

WHEREAS, in accordance with the Declaration of Gindependence, it may become necessary for a
people to dissolve the alcoholic bands which have connected them with one another and to assume
among the powers of the earth the sobriety to which the laws of pessimism entitle them, a decent
disrespect to the opinions of drinkers requires that they should declare the causes which impel
them to drouth.

WHEREAS we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created sober, and are endowed
with certain inalienable rights, such as Life, Grievances, and the Pursuit of Other People's
Happiness. Whenever any form of amusement becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right
of the Pan-Antis to abolish it. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that beverages long established
should not be abolished for light and transient causes. But when it is evident that Nature
herself is in conspiracy against the Constitution of the United States, and that millions of
so-called human beings have found in forbidden tipples a cause for mirth and merriment, it
is time to call a halt to malt, and have no parley with barley.

WHEREAS it has frequently and regrettably been evidenced that Nature is a sot at heart, by
reason of her deplorably lax morals. Painful as it is to make the admission, there are many
of her apparently innocent fruits and plants that are susceptible, by the unlawful processes
of fermentation and effervescence, of transformation into alcoholic liquid. Science tells us
that this abominable form of activity to which Nature is privy is in reality a form of decomposition
or putrefaction; but willful men will hardly be restrained by science in their illicit pursuit
of frivolity.

WHEREAS Nature (hereinafter referred to as The Enemy) has been guilty of repeated ruptures
of the Constitution of the United States, having permitted the juice of apples to ferment into
cider, having encouraged seditious effervescence on the part of gooseberries, currants, raisins,
grapes and similar conspirators; having fomented outrageous yeastiness in hops, malt, rye,
barley and other grains and fodders,

THEREFORE be it enacted, and it hereby is, that all relations with the Enemy are hereby and
henceforward suspended; and any citizen of the United States having commerce with Nature, or
giving her aid and comfort or encouragement in her atrocious alcoholshevik designs on human
dignity, be, and hereby is, guilty of treason and lese-sobriety.

BE IT ALSO enacted, and it hereby is, that the principle of fermentation is forbidden in the
territory of the United States; and all plants, herbs, legumes, vegetables, fruits and foliage
showing themselves capable of producing effervescent juices or liquids in which bubbles and
gases rise to the top be, and hereby are, confiscated, eradicated and removed from the surface
of the soil. And all the laws of Nature inconsistent with the principle of this Act be and
hereby are repealed and rendered null and inconclusive.

IT IS HOPED that this suspension of relations with Nature will operate as a sharp rebuke, and
bring her to reason. It is not the sense of this Act to withhold from the Enemy all hope of
a future reconciliation, should she cast off the habits that have made her a menace. We have
no quarrel with Nature as a whole. But there is a certain misguided clique, the dandelions
and gooseberries and other irresponsible plants, which must be humiliated. We do not presume
to suggest to Nature any alteration or modification of her necessary institutions. But who
can claim that the principle of fermentation, which she has arrogated to herself, is necessary
to her health and happiness? This Intolerable Thing, of which Nature has shown us the ugly
mug, this menace of combined intrigue and force, must be crushed, with proud punctilio.

AND FOR THE strict enforcement of this Act, the Pan-Antis are authorized and empowered to organize
expeditionary forces, by recruitment or (if necessary) by conscription and draft, to proceed
into the territory of the enemy, lay waste and ravage all dandelions, gooseberries and other
unlawful plants. Until this is accomplished Nature shall be and hereby is declared a barred
zone, in which civilians and non-combatants pass at their own peril; and all citizens not serving
with the expeditionary forces shall remain within city and village limits until the territory
of Nature is made safe for sobriety.

This document, having been signed by the Governor, became law, and thousands of people who
were about to leave town for their vacation were held up at the railway stations. Nature was
declared under martial law. There were many who held that the Act, while admirable in principle,
did not go far enough in practice. For instance, it was argued, the detestable principle of
fermentation was due in great part to the influence of the sun upon vegetable matter; and it
was suggested that this heavenly body should be abolished. Others, pointing out that this was
a matter that would take some time, advanced the theory that large tracts of open country should
be shielded from the sun's rays by vast tents or awnings. Bishop Chuff, with his customary
perspicacity, made it plain that one of the chief causes of temptation was hot weather, which
causes immoderate thirst. In order to lessen the amount of thirst in the population he suggested
that it might be feasible to shift the axis of the earth, so that the climate of the United
States would become perceptibly cooler and the torrid zone would be transferred to the area
of the North Pole. This would have the supreme advantage of melting all the northern ice-cap
and providing the temperate belts with a new supply of fresh water. It would be quite easy
(the Bishop insisted) to tilt the earth on its axis if everything heavy on the surface of the
United States were moved up to Hudson's Bay. Accordingly he began to make arrangements to have
the complete files of the Congressional Record moved to the far north in endless freight trains.

Dunraven Bleak, a good deal exhausted by his efforts to keep all these matters carefully reported
in the columns of the Evening Balloon, was ready to take his vacation. As a newspaper man he
was able to get a passport to go into the country, on the pretext of observing the movements
of the troops of the Pan-Antis, who were vigorously attacking the dandelion fields and gooseberry
vineyards. He had already sent his wife and children down to the seashore, in the last refugee
train which had left the city before Nature was declared outlaw.

It was a hot morning, and having wound up his work at the office he was sitting in a small
lunchroom having a shrimp salad sandwich and a glass of milk. The street outside was thronged
with great motor ambulances rumbling in from the suburbs, carrying the wilted remains of berries
and fruits which had been dug up by the furious legions of Chuff. These were hastily transported
to the municipal cannery where they were made into jams and preserves with all possible speed,
before fermentation could set in. Bleak saw them pass with saddened eyes.

A beautiful gray motor car drew up at the curb, and honked vigorously. The proprietor of the
lunchroom, thinking that possibly the chauffeur wanted some sandwiches, left the cash register
and crossed the pavement eagerly. Every eye in the restaurant was turned upon the glittering
limousine, whose panels of dove-throat gray shone with a steely lustre. In a moment the proprietor
returned with a large basket and a small folded paper, looking puzzled. He glanced about the
room, and approached Bleak.

"I guess you're the guy," he said, and handed the editor a note on which was scrawled in pencil

TO THE MAN WITH A PENETRATING GAZE WHO HAS JUST SPILLED SOME SHRIMP SALAD ON HIS PALM BEACH
TROUSERS

Bleak, after removing the shrimp, opened the paper. Inside he read

PLEASE BRING TWO DOZEN RYE-TONGUE SANDWICHES AND AS MUCH SHRIMP SALAD AS THE BASKET WILL HOLD.
AM FAMISHED.

QUIMBLETON.

He looked at the restaurateur in surprise.

"The lady said you were to get the grub and put it in this basket," said the latter.

"The lady?" inquired Bleak.

"The dame in the car," said Isidor, owner of the Busy Wasp Lunchroom.

Bleak obeyed orders. He filled the basket with tongue sandwiches and a huge platter of shrimp
salad, paid the check, and carried the burden to the door of the motor.

At the wheel sat a damsel of extraordinary beauty. The massive proportions of the enormous
car only accentuated the perfection of her streamline figure. Her chassis was admirable; she
was upholstered in a sports suit of fawn-colored whipcord; and her sherry-brown eyes were unmodified
by any dimming devices. Before Bleak could say anything she cried eagerly, "Get in, Mr. Bleak!
I've been looking for you everywhere. What a happy moment this is!"

Bleak handed in the basket. "Quimbleton--" he began.

"I know," she said. "I'm taking you to him. Poor fellow, he is in great peril. Get in, please."

By the time Bleak was in the seat beside her, the car was already in motion.

"You have your passport?" she said, steering through the tangled traffic.

"Yes," he said. He could not help stealing a sidelong glance at this bewitching creature. Her
dainty and vivacious face, just now a trifle sunburnt, was fixed resolutely upon the vehicles
ahead. On the rim of the big steering wheel her small gloved hands gave an impression of great
capability. Bleak thought that her profile seemed oddly familiar.

"Haven't I seen you before?" he said.

"Very possibly. Your newspaper printed my picture the other day, with some rather uncomplimentary
remarks."

Bleak was nonplussed.

"Very stupid of me," he said, "but I don't seem to recall--"

"I am Miss Chuff," she said calmly.

The editor's brain staggered.

"Miss Theodolinda Chuff?" he said, in amazement. He recalled some satirical editorials the
Balloon had printed concerning the activities of the Chuffs, and wondered if he were being
kidnaped for court-martial by the Pan-Antis. Evidently the use of Quimbleton's name had been
a ruse.

"It was unfair of you to make use of Quimbleton's name to get me into your hands," he said angrily.

Miss Chuff turned a momentary gaze of amusement upon him, as they passed a large tractor drawing
several truckloads of gooseberry plants.

"You don't understand," she said demurely. "You may remember that Mr. Quimbleton's card gave
his name as associate director of the Happiness Corporation?"

"Yes," said Bleak.

"I am the Director," she said.

"YOU? But how can that be? Why, your father--"

"That's just why. Any one who had to live with Father would be sure to take the opposite side.
He's a Pan-Anti. I'm a Pan-Pro. Those poems I have written for him were merely a form of camouflage.
Besides, they were so absurd they were sure to do harm to the cause. That's why I wrote them.
I'll explain it all to you a little later."

At this moment they were held up by an armed guard of chuffs, stationed at the city limits.
These saluted respectfully on seeing the Bishop's daughter, but examined Bleak's passport with
care. Then the car passed on into the suburbs.

As they neared the fields of actual battle, Bleak was able to see something of the embittered
nature of the conflict. In the hot white sunlight of the summer morning platoons of Pan-Antis
could be seen marching across the fields, going up from the rest centers to the firing line.
In one place a shallow trench had been dug, from which the chuffs were firing upon a blackberry
hedge at long range. One by one the unprincipled berries were being picked off by expert marksmen.
The dusty highway was stained with ghastly rivulets and dribbles of scarlet juices. At a crossroads
they came upon a group of chuffs who had shown themselves to be conscientious objectors: these
were being escorted to an internment camp where they would be horribly punished by confinement
to lecture rooms with Chautauqua lecturers. War is always cruel, and even non-combatants did
not escape. In the heat of combat, the neutrality of an orchard of plum trees had been violated,
and wagonloads of the innocent fruit were being carried away into slavery and worse than death.
A young apple tree was standing in front of a firing squad, and Bleak closed his eyes rather
than watch the tragic spectacle. The apples were all green, and too young to ferment, but the
chuffs were ruthless once their passions were roused.

They passed through the battle zone, and into a strip of country where pine woods flourished
on a sandy soil. The fragrant breath of sun-warmed balsam came down about them, and Miss Chuff
let out the motor as though to escape from the scene of carnage they had just witnessed.

"Whither are we bound?" asked the editor, with pardonable curiosity, as their tires hummed
over a smooth road.

"Cana, New Jersey," said Miss Chuff, "where poor Quimbleton is in hiding. He is in very sore
straits. He narrowly escaped capture after the parade the other day. I managed to get him smuggled
out of the city in the same ambulance that carried Father's horse. The horse was drunk and
Quim was sober. Wasn't that an irony of fate? But I promised to tell you how I became associated
with the Happiness Corporation."

CHAPTER V

THE TREACHERY OF MISS CHUFF

"My story," said Miss Chuff, as the car slid along the road, "is rich in pathos. My father,
as you can imagine, is an impossible man to live with. My poor mother was taken to an asylum
years ago. Her malady takes a curious form: she is never violent, but spends all her time in
poring over books, magazines and papers. Every time she finds the word HUSBAND in print she
crosses it out with blue pencil.

"From my earliest days I was accustomed to hear very little else but talk about liquor. The
fairy tales that most children are allowed to enjoy merely as stories were explained to me
by my father as allegories bearing upon the sinister seductions of drink. Little Red Riding
Hood and the Wolf, for instance, became a symbol of young womanhood pursued by the devouring
Bronx cocktail. The princess from whose mouth came toads and snakes was (of course) a princess
under the influence of creme de menthe. Cinderella was a young girl who had been brought low
by taking a dash of brandy in her soup. Every dragon, with which good fairy tales are liberally
provided, was the Demon Rum. It is really amazing what stirring prohibition propaganda fairy
tales contain if you know how to interpret them.

"All this kind of palaver naturally roused my childish curiosity as to the subject of intoxicants.
But, like a docile daughter, I fell into the career marked out for me by my father. I became
a militant for the Pan-Antis. I distributed tracts by the million; I wrote a little poem on
the idea that the gates of hell are swinging doors with slats. I can honestly say that I never
felt any real hankering for liquor until it was prohibited altogether. That is a curious feature
of human nature, that as soon as you forbid a thing it becomes irresistibly alluring. You remember
the story of Mrs. Bluebeard.

"It occurred to me, after booze had gone, that it was a sad thing that I, Bishop Chuff's daughter,
who was devoting my life to the prohibition cause, should have not the slightest knowledge
of the nature of this hideous evil we had been pursuing. I brooded over this a great deal,
and fell into a melancholy state. The thought came to me, there must be some virtue in drink,
or why would so many people have stubbornly contested its abolition? It would be too long a
story to tell you all the details, but it was at that time that I first became aware of my
psychic gift."

"Your psychic gift?" queried Bleak, wondering.

She turned her bright beer-brown eyes upon him gravely. "Yes," she said, "I am an alcoholic
medium. It is the latest and most superior form of spiritualism. By gazing upon crystal--particularly
upon an empty tumbler--I am able to throw myself into a trance in which I can communicate with
departed spirits. A good drink does not die, you know: its soul hovers radiantly on the twentieth
plane, and through the occult power of a medium those who loved it in life can get in touch
with it once more. Through these trances of mine I have been privileged to put many bereaved
ones in communication with their dear departed spirits. To hear the table-rappings and the
shouts of ecstasy you would perceive that a great deal of the anguish of separation is assuaged."

"Do you often have these trances?" said Bleak, with a certain wistfulness.

"They are not hard to induce," she said. "All that is necessary for a seance is a round table,
preferably of some highly polished brown wood, a brass rail for the worshipers to put their
feet on, and an empty tumbler to concentrate the power of yearning. If those present all wish
hard enough there is sure to be a successful reunion with the Beyond."

"But surely," said the fascinated editor, "surely not any--well, actual MATERIALIZATION?"

"Oh, no; but the communion of souls produces quite sufficient results. You see, so many fine
spirits passed over at once, suddenly, on that First of July, that the twentieth plane is quite
thronged with them, and they are just as eager to come back as their friends could be to welcome
them. One good yearn deserves another, as we say. The only time when these seances fail is
when some inharmonious soul is present--some personality not completely EN RAPPORT with the
spirit of the gathering. I remember, for instance, an occasion when a gentleman from Kentucky
had most ardently desired to get into communication with the astrals of some mint juleps he
had loved very deeply in life. Everything seemed propitious, but though I struggled hard I
simply could not get the julep spirit to descend to our mortal plane. Finally I made inquiry
and found that one of the guests was a root-beer manufacturer. Of course you may say that was
petty jealousy on the side of the departed, but even these vanished spirits have their human
phases."

She was silent for a moment.

"You can imagine," she said, "what a perplexity I was in when I discovered these hitherto unsuspected
powers in myself. Was I justified in putting them to use, for the good of humanity? And wasn't
there a certain pathetic significance in the fact that I, the daughter of the man who had done
so much to put these poor lonely spirits into the Beyond, should be made their sole channel
of reunion with their bereaved and sorrowing adorers? In all his harangues, I had never heard
my Father attack anything but the actual DRINKING of liquor. This form of communication seemed
to me to solve so many problems. And it was in this way that I first met Virgil."

"Virgil?" said Bleak, absent-mindedly, for he was wondering whether he might be privileged
to attend one of these seances.

"Virgil Quimbleton," she said. "In the early days of my trances I was much haunted by the spirit
of a certain cocktail--blended, I believe, of champagne and angostura--which insisted that
it would be inconsolable until it could get in contact with Quimbleton and reassure him as
to the certainty of its existence beyond mortal bars. The deep affection and old comradeship
evidently cherished between Quimbleton and this cocktail was very touching, and I was more
than happy to be able to effect their reunion. It was for this reason that Quimbleton, under
a careful disguise, came to live next door to us on Caraway Street. I would go out into the
garden and have a trance; Quimbleton, poor bereaved fellow, would sit by me in the dusk and
revel with the spirit of his dear comrade. This common bond soon ripened into Jove, and we
became betrothed."

She stripped off one of her gloves and showed Bleak a beautiful amethyst ring.

