A MODERN UTOPIA

BY H. G. WELLS

A NOTE TO THE READER

This book is in all probability the last of a series of writings, of which--disregarding certain
earlier disconnected essays--my Anticipations was the beginning. Originally I intended Anticipations
to be my sole digression from my art or trade (or what you will) of an imaginative writer.
I wrote that book in order to clear up the muddle in my own mind about innumerable social and
political questions, questions I could not keep out of my work, which it distressed me to touch
upon in a stupid haphazard way, and which no one, so far as I knew, had handled in a manner
to satisfy my needs. But Anticipations did not achieve its end. I have a slow constructive
hesitating sort of mind, and when I emerged from that undertaking I found I had still most
of my questions to state and solve. In Mankind in the Making, therefore, I tried to review
the social organisation in a different way, to consider it as an educational process instead
of dealing with it as a thing with a future history, and if I made this second book even less
satisfactory from a literary standpoint than the former (and this is my opinion), I blundered,
I think, more edifyingly--at least from the point of view of my own instruction. I ventured
upon several themes with a greater frankness than I had used in Anticipations, and came out
of that second effort guilty of much rash writing, but with a considerable development of formed
opinion. In many matters I had shaped out at last a certain personal certitude, upon which
I feel I shall go for the rest of my days. In this present book I have tried to settle accounts
with a number of issues left over or opened up by its two predecessors, to correct them in
some particulars, and to give the general picture of a Utopia that has grown up in my mind
during the course of these speculations as a state of affairs at once possible and more desirable
than the world in which I live. But this book has brought me back to imaginative writing again.
In its two predecessors the treatment of social organisation had been purely objective; here
my intention has been a little wider and deeper, in that I have tried to present not simply
an ideal, but an ideal in reaction with two personalities. Moreover, since this may be the
last book of the kind I shall ever publish, I have written into it as well as I can the heretical
metaphysical scepticism upon which all my thinking rests, and I have inserted certain sections
reflecting upon the established methods of sociological and economic science....

The last four words will not attract the butterfly reader, I know. I have done my best to make
the whole of this book as lucid and entertaining as its matter permits, because I want it read
by as many people as possible, but I do not promise anything but rage and confusion to him
who proposes to glance through my pages just to see if I agree with him, or to begin in the
middle, or to read without a constantly alert attention. If you are not already a little interested
and open-minded with regard to social and political questions, and a little exercised in self-examination,
you will find neither interest nor pleasure here. If your mind is "made up" upon such issues
your time will be wasted on these pages. And even if you are a willing reader you may require
a little patience for the peculiar method I have this time adopted.

That method assumes an air of haphazard, but it is not so careless as it seems. I believe it
to be--even now that I am through with the book--the best way to a sort of lucid vagueness
which has always been my intention in this matter. I tried over several beginnings of a Utopian
book before I adopted this. I rejected from the outset the form of the argumentative essay,
the form which appeals most readily to what is called the "serious" reader, the reader who
is often no more than the solemnly impatient parasite of great questions. He likes everything
in hard, heavy lines, black and white, yes and no, because he does not understand how much
there is that cannot be presented at all in that way; wherever there is any effect of obliquity,
of incommensurables, wherever there is any levity or humour or difficulty of multiplex presentation,
he refuses attention. Mentally he seems to be built up upon an invincible assumption that the
Spirit of Creation cannot count beyond two, he deals only in alternatives. Such readers I have
resolved not to attempt to please here. Even if I presented all my tri-clinic crystals as systems
of cubes----! Indeed I felt it would not be worth doing. But having rejected the "serious"
essay as a form, I was still greatly exercised, I spent some vacillating months, over the scheme
of this book. I tried first a recognised method of viewing questions from divergent points
that has always attracted me and which I have never succeeded in using, the discussion novel,
after the fashion of Peacock's (and Mr. Mallock's) development of the ancient dialogue; but
this encumbered me with unnecessary characters and the inevitable complication of intrigue
among them, and I abandoned it. After that I tried to cast the thing into a shape resembling
a little the double personality of Boswell's Johnson, a sort of interplay between monologue
and commentator; but that too, although it got nearer to the quality I sought, finally failed.
Then I hesitated over what one might call "hard narrative." It will be evident to the experienced
reader that by omitting certain speculative and metaphysical elements and by elaborating incident,
this book might have been reduced to a straightforward story. But I did not want to omit as
much on this occasion. I do not see why I should always pander to the vulgar appetite for stark
stories. And in short, I made it this. I explain all this in order to make it clear to the
reader that, however queer this book appears at the first examination, it is the outcome of
trial and deliberation, it is intended to be as it is. I am aiming throughout at a sort of
shot-silk texture between philosophical discussion on the one hand and imaginative narrative
on the other.

H. G. WELLS.

CONTENTS

  The Owner of the Voice
  Chapter the First--Topographical
  Chapter the Second--Concerning Freedoms
  Chapter the Third--Utopian Economics
  Chapter the Fourth--The Voice of Nature
  Chapter the Fifth--Failure in a Modern Utopia
  Chapter the Sixth--Women in a Modern Utopia
  Chapter the Seventh--A Few Utopian Impressions
  Chapter the Eighth--My Utopian Self
  Chapter the Ninth--The Samurai
  Chapter the Tenth--Race in Utopia
  Chapter the Eleventh--The Bubble Bursts
  Appendix--Scepticism of the Instrument

A MODERN UTOPIA

THE OWNER OF THE VOICE

There are works, and this is one of them, that are best begun with a portrait of the author.
And here, indeed, because of a very natural misunderstanding this is the only course to take.
Throughout these papers sounds a note, a distinctive and personal note, a note that tends at
times towards stridency; and all that is not, as these words are, in Italics, is in one Voice.
Now, this Voice, and this is the peculiarity of the matter, is not to be taken as the Voice
of the ostensible author who fathers these pages. You have to clear your mind of any preconceptions
in that respect. The Owner of the Voice you must figure to yourself as a whitish plump man,
a little under the middle size and age, with such blue eyes as many Irishmen have, and agile
in his movements and with a slight tonsorial baldness--a penny might cover it--of the crown.
His front is convex. He droops at times like most of us, but for the greater part he bears
himself as valiantly as a sparrow. Occasionally his hand flies out with a fluttering gesture
of illustration. And his Voice (which is our medium henceforth) is an unattractive tenor that
becomes at times aggressive. Him you must imagine as sitting at a table reading a manuscript
about Utopias, a manuscript he holds in two hands that are just a little fat at the wrist.
The curtain rises upon him so. But afterwards, if the devices of this declining art of literature
prevail, you will go with him through curious and interesting experiences. Yet, ever and again,
you will find him back at that little table, the manuscript in his hand, and the expansion
of his ratiocinations about Utopia conscientiously resumed. The entertainment before you is
neither the set drama of the work of fiction you are accustomed to read, nor the set lecturing
of the essay you are accustomed to evade, but a hybrid of these two. If you figure this owner
of the Voice as sitting, a little nervously, a little modestly, on a stage, with table, glass
of water and all complete, and myself as the intrusive chairman insisting with a bland ruthlessness
upon his "few words" of introduction before he recedes into the wings, and if furthermore you
figure a sheet behind our friend on which moving pictures intermittently appear, and if finally
you suppose his subject to be the story of the adventure of his soul among Utopian inquiries,
you will be prepared for some at least of the difficulties of this unworthy but unusual work.

But over against this writer here presented, there is also another earthly person in the book,
who gathers himself together into a distinct personality only after a preliminary complication
with the reader. This person is spoken of as the botanist, and he is a leaner, rather taller,
graver and much less garrulous man. His face is weakly handsome and done in tones of grey,
he is fairish and grey-eyed, and you would suspect him of dyspepsia. It is a justifiable suspicion.
Men of this type, the chairman remarks with a sudden intrusion of exposition, are romantic
with a shadow of meanness, they seek at once to conceal and shape their sensuous cravings beneath
egregious sentimentalities, they get into mighty tangles and troubles with women, and he has
had his troubles. You will hear of them, for that is the quality of his type. He gets no personal
expression in this book, the Voice is always that other's, but you gather much of the matter
and something of the manner of his interpolations from the asides and the tenour of the Voice.

So much by way of portraiture is necessary to present the explorers of the Modern Utopia, which
will unfold itself as a background to these two enquiring figures. The image of a cinematograph
entertainment is the one to grasp. There will be an effect of these two people going to and
fro in front of the circle of a rather defective lantern, which sometimes jams and sometimes
gets out of focus, but which does occasionally succeed in displaying on a screen a momentary
moving picture of Utopian conditions. Occasionally the picture goes out altogether, the Voice
argues and argues, and the footlights return, and then you find yourself listening again to
the rather too plump little man at his table laboriously enunciating propositions, upon whom
the curtain rises now.

CHAPTER THE FIRST

Topographical

Section 1

The Utopia of a modern dreamer must needs differ in one fundamental aspect from the Nowheres
and Utopias men planned before Darwin quickened the thought of the world. Those were all perfect
and static States, a balance of happiness won for ever against the forces of unrest and disorder
that inhere in things. One beheld a healthy and simple generation enjoying the fruits of the
earth in an atmosphere of virtue and happiness, to be followed by other virtuous, happy, and
entirely similar generations, until the Gods grew weary. Change and development were dammed
back by invincible dams for ever. But the Modern Utopia must be not static but kinetic, must
shape not as a permanent state but as a hopeful stage, leading to a long ascent of stages.
Nowadays we do not resist and overcome the great stream of things, but rather float upon it.
We build now not citadels, but ships of state. For one ordered arrangement of citizens rejoicing
in an equality of happiness safe and assured to them and their children for ever, we have to
plan "a flexible common compromise, in which a perpetually novel succession of individualities
may converge most effectually upon a comprehensive onward development." That is the first,
most generalised difference between a Utopia based upon modern conceptions and all the Utopias
that were written in the former time.

Our business here is to be Utopian, to make vivid and credible, if we can, first this facet
and then that, of an imaginary whole and happy world. Our deliberate intention is to be not,
indeed, impossible, but most distinctly impracticable, by every scale that reaches only between
to-day and to-morrow. We are to turn our backs for a space upon the insistent examination of
the thing that is, and face towards the freer air, the ampler spaces of the thing that perhaps
might be, to the projection of a State or city "worth while," to designing upon the sheet of
our imaginations the picture of a life conceivably possible, and yet better worth living than
our own. That is our present enterprise. We are going to lay down certain necessary starting
propositions, and then we shall proceed to explore the sort of world these propositions give us....

It is no doubt an optimistic enterprise. But it is good for awhile to be free from the carping
note that must needs be audible when we discuss our present imperfections, to release ourselves
from practical difficulties and the tangle of ways and means. It is good to stop by the track
for a space, put aside the knapsack, wipe the brows, and talk a little of the upper slopes
of the mountain we think we are climbing, would but the trees let us see it.

There is to be no inquiry here of policy and method. This is to be a holiday from politics
and movements and methods. But for all that, we must needs define certain limitations. Were
we free to have our untrammelled desire, I suppose we should follow Morris to his Nowhere,
we should change the nature of man and the nature of things together; we should make the whole
race wise, tolerant, noble, perfect--wave our hands to a splendid anarchy, every man doing
as it pleases him, and none pleased to do evil, in a world as good in its essential nature,
as ripe and sunny, as the world before the Fall. But that golden age, that perfect world, comes
out into the possibilities of space and time. In space and time the pervading Will to Live
sustains for evermore a perpetuity of aggressions. Our proposal here is upon a more practical
plane at least than that. We are to restrict ourselves first to the limitations of human possibility
as we know them in the men and women of this world to-day, and then to all the inhumanity,
all the insubordination of nature. We are to shape our state in a world of uncertain seasons,
sudden catastrophes, antagonistic diseases, and inimical beasts and vermin, out of men and
women with like passions, like uncertainties of mood and desire to our own. And, moreover,
we are going to accept this world of conflict, to adopt no attitude of renunciation towards
it, to face it in no ascetic spirit, but in the mood of the Western peoples, whose purpose
is to survive and overcome. So much we adopt in common with those who deal not in Utopias,
but in the world of Here and Now.

Certain liberties, however, following the best Utopian precedents, we may take with existing
fact. We assume that the tone of public thought may be entirely different from what it is in
the present world. We permit ourselves a free hand with the mental conflict of life, within
the possibilities of the human mind as we know it. We permit ourselves also a free hand with
all the apparatus of existence that man has, so to speak, made for himself, with houses, roads,
clothing, canals, machinery, with laws, boundaries, conventions, and traditions, with schools,
with literature and religious organisation, with creeds and customs, with everything, in fact,
that it lies within man's power to alter. That, indeed, is the cardinal assumption of all Utopian
speculations old and new; the Republic and Laws of Plato, and More's Utopia, Howells' implicit
Altruria, and Bellamy's future Boston, Comte's great Western Republic, Hertzka's Freeland,
Cabet's Icaria, and Campanella's City of the Sun, are built, just as we shall build, upon that,
upon the hypothesis of the complete emancipation of a community of men from tradition, from
habits, from legal bonds, and that subtler servitude possessions entail. And much of the essential
value of all such speculations lies in this assumption of emancipation, lies in that regard
towards human freedom, in the undying interest of the human power of self-escape, the power
to resist the causation of the past, and to evade, initiate, endeavour, and overcome.

Section 2

There are very definite artistic limitations also.

There must always be a certain effect of hardness and thinness about Utopian speculations.
Their common fault is to be comprehensively jejune. That which is the blood and warmth and
reality of life is largely absent; there are no individualities, but only generalised people.
In almost every Utopia--except, perhaps, Morris's "News from Nowhere"--one sees handsome but
characterless buildings, symmetrical and perfect cultivations, and a multitude of people, healthy,
happy, beautifully dressed, but without any personal distinction whatever. Too often the prospect
resembles the key to one of those large pictures of coronations, royal weddings, parliaments,
conferences, and gatherings so popular in Victorian times, in which, instead of a face, each
figure bears a neat oval with its index number legibly inscribed. This burthens us with an
incurable effect of unreality, and I do not see how it is altogether to be escaped. It is a
disadvantage that has to be accepted. Whatever institution has existed or exists, however irrational,
however preposterous, has, by virtue of its contact with individualities, an effect of realness
and rightness no untried thing may share. It has ripened, it has been christened with blood,
it has been stained and mellowed by handling, it has been rounded and dented to the softened
contours that we associate with life; it has been salted, maybe, in a brine of tears. But the
thing that is merely proposed, the thing that is merely suggested, however rational, however
necessary, seems strange and inhuman in its clear, hard, uncompromising lines, its unqualified
angles and surfaces.

There is no help for it, there it is! The Master suffers with the last and least of his successors.
For all the humanity he wins to, through his dramatic device of dialogue, I doubt if anyone
has ever been warmed to desire himself a citizen in the Republic of Plato; I doubt if anyone
could stand a month of the relentless publicity of virtue planned by More.... No one wants
to live in any community of intercourse really, save for the sake of the individualities he
would meet there. The fertilising conflict of individualities is the ultimate meaning of the
personal life, and all our Utopias no more than schemes for bettering that interplay. At least,
that is how life shapes itself more and more to modern perceptions. Until you bring in individualities,
nothing comes into being, and a Universe ceases when you shiver the mirror of the least of
individual minds.

Section 3

No less than a planet will serve the purpose of a modern Utopia. Time was when a mountain valley
or an island seemed to promise sufficient isolation for a polity to maintain itself intact
from outward force; the Republic of Plato stood armed ready for defensive war, and the New
Atlantis and the Utopia of More in theory, like China and Japan through many centuries of effectual
practice, held themselves isolated from intruders. Such late instances as Butler's satirical
"Erewhon," and Mr. Stead's queendom of inverted sexual conditions in Central Africa, found
the Tibetan method of slaughtering the inquiring visitor a simple, sufficient rule. But the
whole trend of modern thought is against the permanence of any such enclosures. We are acutely
aware nowadays that, however subtly contrived a State may be, outside your boundary lines the
epidemic, the breeding barbarian or the economic power, will gather its strength to overcome
you. The swift march of invention is all for the invader. Now, perhaps you might still guard
a rocky coast or a narrow pass; but what of that near to-morrow when the flying machine soars
overhead, free to descend at this point or that? A state powerful enough to keep isolated under
modern conditions would be powerful enough to rule the world, would be, indeed, if not actively
ruling, yet passively acquiescent in all other human organisations, and so responsible for
them altogether. World-state, therefore, it must be.

That leaves no room for a modern Utopia in Central Africa, or in South America, or round about
the pole, those last refuges of ideality. The floating isle of La Cite Morellyste no longer
avails. We need a planet. Lord Erskine, the author of a Utopia ("Armata") that might have been
inspired by Mr. Hewins, was the first of all Utopists to perceive this--he joined his twin
planets pole to pole by a sort of umbilical cord. But the modern imagination, obsessed by physics,
must travel further than that.

Out beyond Sirius, far in the deeps of space, beyond the flight of a cannon-ball flying for
a billion years, beyond the range of unaided vision, blazes the star that is our Utopia's sun.
To those who know where to look, with a good opera-glass aiding good eyes, it and three fellows
that seem in a cluster with it--though they are incredible billions of miles nearer--make just
the faintest speck of light. About it go planets, even as our planets, but weaving a different
fate, and in its place among them is Utopia, with its sister mate, the Moon. It is a planet
like our planet, the same continents, the same islands, the same oceans and seas, another Fuji-Yama
is beautiful there dominating another Yokohama--and another Matterhorn overlooks the icy disorder
of another Theodule. It is so like our planet that a terrestrial botanist might find his every
species there, even to the meanest pondweed or the remotest Alpine blossom....

Only when he had gathered that last and turned about to find his inn again, perhaps he would
not find his inn!

Suppose now that two of us were actually to turn about in just that fashion. Two, I think,
for to face a strange planet, even though it be a wholly civilised one, without some other
familiar backing, dashes the courage overmuch. Suppose that we were indeed so translated even
as we stood. You figure us upon some high pass in the Alps, and though I--being one easily
made giddy by stooping--am no botanist myself, if my companion were to have a specimen tin
under his arm--so long as it is not painted that abominable popular Swiss apple green--I would
make it no occasion for quarrel! We have tramped and botanised and come to a rest, and, sitting
among rocks, we have eaten our lunch and finished our bottle of Yvorne, and fallen into a talk
of Utopias, and said such things as I have been saying. I could figure it myself upon that
little neck of the Lucendro Pass, upon the shoulder of the Piz Lucendro, for there once I lunched
and talked very pleasantly, and we are looking down upon the Val Bedretto, and Villa and Fontana
and Airolo try to hide from us under the mountain side--three-quarters of a mile they are vertically
below. (Lantern.) With that absurd nearness of effect one gets in the Alps, we see the little
train a dozen miles away, running down the Biaschina to Italy, and the Lukmanier Pass beyond
Piora left of us, and the San Giacomo right, mere footpaths under our feet....

And behold! in the twinkling of an eye we are in that other world!

We should scarcely note the change. Not a cloud would have gone from the sky. It might be the
remote town below would take a different air, and my companion the botanist, with his educated
observation, might almost see as much, and the train, perhaps, would be gone out of the picture,
and the embanked straightness of the Ticino in the Ambri-Piotta meadows--that might be altered,
but that would be all the visible change. Yet I have an idea that in some obscure manner we
should come to feel at once a difference in things.

The botanist's glance would, under a subtle attraction, float back to Airolo. "It's queer,"
he would say quite idly, "but I never noticed that building there to the right before."

"Which building?"

"That to the right--with a queer sort of thing----"

"I see now. Yes. Yes, it's certainly an odd-looking affair.... And big, you know! Handsome!
I wonder----"

That would interrupt our Utopian speculations. We should both discover that the little towns
below had changed--but how, we should not have marked them well enough to know. It would be
indefinable, a change in the quality of their grouping, a change in the quality of their remote,
small shapes.

I should flick a few crumbs from my knee, perhaps. "It's odd," I should say, for the tenth
or eleventh time, with a motion to rise, and we should get up and stretch ourselves, and, still
a little puzzled, turn our faces towards the path that clambers down over the tumbled rocks
and runs round by the still clear lake and down towards the Hospice of St. Gotthard--if perchance
we could still find that path.

Long before we got to that, before even we got to the great high road, we should have hints
from the stone cabin in the nape of the pass--it would be gone or wonderfully changed--from
the very goats upon the rocks, from the little hut by the rough bridge of stone, that a mighty
difference had come to the world of men.

And presently, amazed and amazing, we should happen on a man--no Swiss--dressed in unfamiliar
clothing and speaking an unfamiliar speech....

Section 4

Before nightfall we should be drenched in wonders, but still we should have wonder left for
the thing my companion, with his scientific training, would no doubt be the first to see. He
would glance up, with that proprietary eye of the man who knows his constellations down to
the little Greek letters. I imagine his exclamation. He would at first doubt his eyes. I should
inquire the cause of his consternation, and it would be hard to explain. He would ask me with
a certain singularity of manner for "Orion," and I should not find him; for the Great Bear,
and it would have vanished. "Where?" I should ask, and "where?" seeking among that scattered
starriness, and slowly I should acquire the wonder that possessed him.

Then, for the first time, perhaps, we should realise from this unfamiliar heaven that not the
world had changed, but ourselves--that we had come into the uttermost deeps of space.

Section 5

