No race has been so domineering, none stronger and with a more exclusive spirit of caste, none
with a more contemptuous dislike of inferiority, none more violent in prejudice once formed,
or dislikes once engendered; yet doth the spirit and impulse of freedom move majestic "in the
chambers of their soul," raising them finally above those hated obliquities, conquering their
repugnance, enfeebling and vanishing their hates. Thus one by one grave wrongs inflicted upon
weaker races by the cold, calculating hand of greed have been arrested and blotted out in the
holy names of right. Thus it is, and has been, that nations, sects, and creeds coming to these
shores lose, in the fascination of free institutions and the august majesty of liberty, the
distinctive qualities of their old allegiance, and thus it is that over a broad land composed
of all nations, sects, and creeds there reigns one grand homogeneity and a single patriotic
impulse of faith and destiny. Few there are of Americans who can to-day trace even the faintest
spark of their lineage to an English or even a Norman source. Yet the spirit of the Anglo-Saxon
is the presiding genius of our destiny. Its spirit is the spirit of our law, and its religion
is the evangel of our political faith.

Inheritors of this great circumstance of power and rule, need I remind you that, though you
sacrifice your labor and toil, though you may have brought forth this jewel of liberty regulated
by law, you cannot keep it unless you share it with the world. The evils which in days past
men had to wipe out in tears and blood will arise again and precipitate convulsions in which
liberty may expire.

The very spectacle of seeming grandeur and the outward cast of luxury and splendor invite the
enemies' quest and fans into blood-red heat his latent ire, while pride, vanity, and hate surround
the heart with the humor of death-breeding slime into which the corroding worm is spawned.

I care nothing for the shell; the fleshy parts are no longer food for the living, but the pearl
contained in this Anglo-Saxon mollusk has for me an irresistible charm. The pure spirit of
its lofty ideals, distilled from his life and struggles, and living in quickening touch with
human thought and aspiration, like the exaltation which lingers after some Hosanna chorus;
his sublimated actions and deeds, whose swelling flood of cadence throb with the heart-beat
of universal man,--these I love with inexpressible devotion; these are worth preserving. All
else, cast in the rubbish heap with past delusions.

Mr. Chairman, men are great and small, they roam the vast wilderness of the stars, and soar
the very empyrean of thought and action, and they fear and crouch and kneel; and in their quaking
fears and driveling doubts seem like puny things crawling on the ground; they are saints and
sinners; sometimes emissaries of light and love, and yet again harbingers of ill, and sometimes
the very Nemesis of hate; but in the composite elements of their human thinking, throbbing
energies of heart and mind, they are as but a single soul, governed by one law, imbued with
one spirit, hearkening to one voice, touched by the one sympathy, inspired by one hope, and
in trend of aspiration, love and ideal, impelled by the onward flux of one great life-struggle
and purpose.

What, then, are you and I but sentient units in one great evolving process of life-activity
and thought; and yet so circumvolved in that process that the impulse, which we irradiate from
the point of our single particular seat of energy and feeling, thrills through the vast spheres
of human purpose and endeavor, and raises the standard of truth or forwards the advance of
enlightened order like each rhythmic melody is gathered in the mightier confluence of chime
and strain to swell the torrent of a mighty symphony.

The work we have to do is not outside, but deep down in the teeming flow of struggling human
souls. Think of them as your other self, and your own souls will interpret the meaning of their
complaints, the quality of their striving, and the measure of their justice.

You will then behold the race of men as I have beheld them once when my single soul seemed
with sympathy winged and I sat with the lowly outcast and felt his outrage and his shame; I
brooded with him over all his wrongs; I felt within my breast the poison shaft of hate, and
clinched like him my fist, scowled, and vengeance swore on them who drove my despair and misery
to crime by scoff and rancor and unforgiving hate.

I stood amidst a motley throng and felt my brain bereft of noble thought; I lived in a squalid
home and despised the pity which the disdainful cast upon my lot; laughed at ribald jests and
quaffed the liquid flame, and the dark-hued nectar which concealed the serpent beneath its
foam; I held my head aloft to seem with pride imbued; I gibed at fortune's whim and grinned
a soulless sneer at my fate to conceal a deep despair.

I roamed with the savage Indians across the arid plains, stood with them in lonely worship
of the great Unknown, and dropped like him a silent tear for the woodlands gone; the fleet-footed
game no longer at his door; his father's dust, scattered by winds over consecrated and hallowed
battle-plains.

I stood beside the enchanted Nile and wondered at the mystery of the Sphinx; I felt the lure,
the wanderlust of the mysterious arid plains and laid my body down on the desert sand to sleep,
a weapon by my side; I arose to greet the rising sun and, with "Allah" on my tongue, bowed
my head in solemn worship towards Mecca's distant domes.

I wandered through Africa's torrid forest and scorching plains and sat naked before a bamboo
hut; I felt the savage's freedom and his ease; I learned the songs of birds, the shriek of
beasts, the omens of the moons, and kenned the dread and sacred lore which tradition single
tongue had brought from the ages past and gone.

I walked beside the Ganges' sacred shores, worshiped at the shrine of mighty gods and felt
the spirit of the mighty All vibrate through my being. I chanted the songs whose authors are
forgot, and studied strange philosophies of sages passed; I starved and hungered on his arid
plains; I felt the whips and scorn of cast; the curse of fated birth and the iron rule of oppression's
heartless greed.

I was slave, and by fortune scorned; I felt the whip cut into my quivering flesh and my blood
rush hot to the gaping wound; I knew the agony of unrequited toil, and with aching limbs dragged
my hopeless body to my hut, to think, but not to sleep.

I learned to dream and hate, and at Nemesis' bloody altar immolated in thought and hope the
whole detested tribe of human oppressors and cried Content.

And thus I know the bondage which men endure, the realty and the delusion in what they think
and feel; and the subtlety and strength of those evil forces which color his disposition and
becloud his prospect.

And I stand amidst his turbulent fortunes and above the storm and rage of his contentions and
despairs to proclaim the divinity of his soul, and to herald a new awakening under which his
quickened energies will yet surge forward in mighty waves of better things.

If the Republic is true to the great principles of liberty and justice which it proclaims;
if you have learned the lesson of your own history, and appropriated the experience coined
out of your own struggles, then will Anglo-Saxon genius and achievement glow like a mighty
flame to light the path of struggling men, and Anglo-Saxon glory light angels to restore the
rights of man.

THE ARMY AS A TRAINED FORCE[34]

BY THEOPHILUS G. STEWARD, D. D.

Chaplain 25th United States Infantry

[Note 34: Delivered before General Conference, Chicago, Ill., 1904.]

Reverend Bishops, and Brethren of the Ministry, and my Brethren of the Laity:

I thank the honorable Commission from my heart for the distinguished favor they have conferred
upon me in inviting me to address this august assembly. Never before, during all my forty years
of public life, have I been granted so majestic a privilege; never before have I ventured to
assume so grave a responsibility; and, I may add, never before have I felt so keenly my inability
to do justice to the occasion.

I am encouraged, however, by the reflection that I am in the house of my friends, where I may
hope for an indulgent hearing, and especially upon the subject which I have the high honor
to bring before you.

The purport of my address is the conservation of life; the development of physical and moral
power as well as of mental alertness; the creation of bravery and the evolution of that higher
and broader element--courage; the formation of character sturdy enough to upbear a State, and
intelligent enough to direct its government. What I have to say will be toward the production
of a robust and chivalric manhood, the only proper shelter for a pure and glorious womanhood.
Noble women are the crown of heroic men. None but the brave deserve the fair, and none but
the brave can have them.

For the purpose of illustrating and enforcing these great social, physical, and moral truths,
I have chosen the Army of our country, or the character and training of the American soldier.
In this I do not depart from Biblical practise. How many hearts have been cheered and strengthened
by the thrilling pictures painted by St. Paul of the soldiers of his times! How many have in
thought beheld his armed hosts and heard his stirring exhortation: "Fight the good fight of faith!"

We owe our existence as a nation to the men in arms who for eight years met the force of Great
Britain with counter force, and thus cleared the field for the statesmanship that can make
the proverbial two blades of grass grow. The man with the gun opened the way for the man with
the hoe. We who are here, and the race we represent, owe our deliverance from chattel slavery
to the men in arms who conquered the slaveholders' Rebellion. It is a sad thought, but nevertheless
one too true thus far in human history, that liberty, man's greatest earthly boon, can be reached
only through a pathway of blood. The Army made good our declaration of independence; and upon
the Army and Navy Lincoln relied for the efficacy of his plan of emancipation. Abstract right
is fair to look upon, and has furnished the theme for charming essays by such beautiful writers
as Ruskin and Emerson; but right, backed up by battalions, is the right that prevails. When
the men of blood and iron come, there is no longer time for the song or the essay. It is, "Get
in line or be shot." The days of rhetoricals are over. The eloquence of the soldier silences
all. Even the laws are dumb when the sword is unsheathed.

Is this horrible doctrine? It is only God overthrowing Pharaoh by means more humane than His
fearful plagues, and less destructive than the billows of that relentless sea over which redeemed
Israel so exultingly sang. No, brethren; the sword of the Lord and of Gideon has not ceased
to be a useful instrument. It is the proper thing for evil doers.

The army is the national sword, and the "powers that be" bear it "not in vain." It is a fearful
engine of destruction, pure and simple. Von Moltke says: "The immediate aim of the soldier's
life is destruction, and nothing but destruction; and whatever constructions wars result in
are remote and non-military."

Emerson says: "War educates the senses, calls into action the will, perfects the physical constitution,
brings men into such swift and close collision in critical moments that man measures man."

It is not my purpose, however, to glorify war. War to me is horrible beyond description or
conception, and it is for war that armies are trained; yet the training of an army, like the
training of even a pugilist, is a work of great moral value.

Notwithstanding the fact that the Army gave us our independence, when the Revolution had succeeded,
and the Constitution had been framed, and the country launched on her career, there was a tendency
to forget Joseph. So strong was the feeling against a standing army that it was with difficulty
that even a nucleus was maintained. The first legislation on this subject gave us but one battalion
of artillery and one regiment of infantry, the whole consisting of 46 officers and 840 men.
In 1814, because of the war with England, the army ran up to 60,000; but the next year fell
to 12,000, and continued even below that number up to 1838, when it again went up to about
12,000. In 1846, during the Mexican War, it reached about 18,000. When the Civil War broke
out it was about 12,000. There were in the Army, at the time of the beginning of the Civil
War, over 1,000 officers. Two hundred and eighty-six of these left the service of the United
States, and subsequently served in the Confederate Army. Of these 286, 187 had been educated
at West Point. But so far as I am able to say now, not a single enlisted man followed the example
of these officers.

Beside the staff departments, the Army now consists of 15 regiments of cavalry, 30 batteries
of field artillery, 126 companies of coast artillery, and 30 regiments of infantry. These different
classes are known as the three arms of the service: Cavalry, artillery, and infantry. Our whole
Army to-day numbers 67,259 men. We are the greatest nation, with the smallest army. Our Army,
however, is capable of rapid expansion; and, with our National Guard, we need not fear any
emergency. This Army, though so small, is in one sense a trained athlete, ready to defend the
nation's honor and flag. In another sense, it is a vast practical school, in which the military
profession is taught. The students are not only the 60,000 who are now serving, but the many
thousands also, who come and go. Men enlist for three years, and although many re-enlist, the
Army is constantly receiving recruits, and constantly discharging trained soldiers. These discharged
soldiers are often found among our best citizens.

The entire corps of over 3,800 officers may be regarded as professors or instructors, whose
duty it is to bring the Army up to a state of perfection. To this corps of 3,800 commissioned
officers must be added, also, the large number of intelligent non-commissioned officers, who
are assistant instructors of the very highest utility. The work of the Army consists of study
and practice, instruction and drill. It is an incessant school. There are officers' school,
non-commissioned officers' school, school of the soldier, school of the company, school of
the battalion, post school,--besides drills and lectures without number. The actual scientific
information imparted to the enlisted men is considerable. To specify only in small part: It
includes all methods of signaling, up to telegraphy; all methods of preserving and preparing
food; all methods of first treatment of wounds; how to estimate distance, to map a country,
to care for property and stock, and the most thorough knowledge of weapons and warfare. To
become a second lieutenant in the Army, a man must either go through West Point, or have the
equivalent of a college education, especially in mathematics, history, and law; and have, besides,
an accurate knowledge of what is purely military. And when he is made a second lieutenant and
enters upon his career as an officer, his studies begin afresh. He must study to prepare himself
for subsequent promotions. Failure in this means dismission. The army officer to-day must be
exceedingly thorough and accurate in his knowledge.

General Corbin says: "Never before in the history of the Army have there been so many acceptable
candidates for promotion as there are at this time. Never before has the Army been in a higher
state of efficiency and in more perfect accord than it is to-day. Until within a short time,
an officer graduated at the Military Academy at West Point was looked upon as a man with 'a
finished education'; but to-day, and for the last four years, we accept that education merely
as the foundation upon which a more advanced education is to be built. This theory is in general
practice, and has been so accepted. The service schools at Fort Monroe, Fort Totten, Fort Riley,
Fort Leavenworth, and the War College at Washington are, in most respects, high-class post-graduate
schools. In addition of this, every post is a school of application, educating officers and
men for the duties now required of them."

What, then, is this training of the army for which the officer must possess this most accurate,
thorough, and scientific education? He is required to have this education that he may train
the soldier up to the highest point of efficiency. The officer must know, and must be able
to impress the soldier with the fact that he does know. The officer must have the full science
of everything pertaining to the soldier's work, in order that he may teach the soldier the
art of it. The nature of the training to which the soldier is subjected may be best understood
by considering its end. This, as in all training, is more important than the method. The primary
object of the training is to unify the army and make it the efficient instrument for executing
the nation's will. By discipline, individual efforts are brought under control of the chief.
A company is well disciplined when, in its movement, its collective soul, so to speak, is identified
with that of its commander. The officer must have possession of his men, so that when the command
is given, an electric current will seem to pass through the company, and the movement will,
as it were, execute itself. In a well-drilled and well-disciplined company, the orders do not
seem to pass through the intellects of the men. Without reflection, but simply by concentrated
attention, the work is done. The wills of the men are not only temporarily dislodged, but in
their place is substituted the dominant will of the commander. This is the psychological end
sought; and this condition secures instantaneous obedience to orders. It is this which brings
about those marvels of execution which occur among disciplined men. Men perform acts in which
neither their personal reason nor even their personal will has any part.

A second end of the training is to habituate the men so firmly in the performance of certain
movements that no emotion can interfere with their action. Upon the battle-field there is nothing
left of the exercises of the times of peace, but that which has become a habit, or in a word,
an instinct. The soldier must be so trained that he will go on with his work as long as he
has the ability to do so. One has said: "It must be the aim of the new discipline to make the
private soldier capable of keeping steadfastly in mind for the whole of the day, or even for
several days, and striving with all his might to carry out, what he has been told by a superior
who is no longer present, and who, for all he may know, is dead."

A third end sought in military training is to render the soldier strong and agile, so that
he can move with rapidity, sustain long marches, and handle his weapon with dexterity.

* * * * *

Every consideration in feeding, clothing, sheltering, both men and animals, has but one object,--efficiency.
All questions of moral duty, all ideas of the spiritual or immortal interests, are completely
submerged beneath the ever-present thought of material force. Power must be had by men, horses,
machinery; power, aggressive power, is the all-pervading and all-controlling thought of the army.

* * * * *

An army is properly an incarnation of the fiend of destruction. Every part of its legitimate
work is to destroy. If it constructs bridges and builds roads, erects forts and digs trenches,
these are all that it may destroy, or prevent some other incarnation from destroying it. Armies
lay waste and destroy. Cornfields, orchards, lawns, life, and treasure are all prey for the
voracious destroyer.

The motive employed in bringing the soldier to the high state of excellence here described
is always that of duty. The word "duty" is very prominent and very full of meaning in the army.
Military duty is made a moral obligation founded upon patriotism. This sentiment of duty is
the moral force in the army that gives dignity to its obedience. The army develops, strengthens,
and educates this sense of duty, until it becomes supreme. It is this sense of duty which produces
endurance to undergo privations, and leads men to be patient under the greatest sacrifices.
The physical force which we see in the army depends upon the moral or spiritual which we do
not see.

The whole life of the army, its very soul, the breath which animates its every part, is preparation
for war. To be ready for war is the supreme end toward which all its efforts tend. The mechanical
parts of the work are so numerous and various that I can barely outline them here. There are
those exercises which conduce to health and vigor, known as the setting-up drill. These exercises
correct the form of the body and transform the recruit into a soldier. The constant drills
all have their effect upon the bearing and gait of the men. The extensive system of calisthenics
gives to the body suppleness. All this work is done under direction, so that obedience and
discipline are taught at the same time with physical culture. Apart from these exercises are
voluntary athletics, which are greatly encouraged. It is believed that athletic exercises,
by bettering the bodies of the men, better also their minds; that, for the welfare of the army,
these exercises rank next to training in shooting. I know you will take pride in the fact that
the black soldiers, both of infantry and cavalry, occupy a place in the very front rank in
all these manly exercises. They are equal to America's best on the drillground, on the athletic
grounds, and on the field of bloody strife.

The practise of cleanliness is enjoined all the time, along with these exercises. The soldier
is taught how to make his bed and to put all his effects in order, and is then compelled to
do it; and thus there is established within him a love of order. Punctuality, cleanliness,
and order are the soldier's three graces. The hygiene of his body, care of his arms and equipments,
respect for his uniform, are driven into his inmost soul. Our regiment lived in the midst of
cholera, without suffering from the disease. Hence the army is a great object-lesson of what
care and training can make of men.

But the army in our Republic is of far greater value in a moral sense than in a physical sense.
In these days when authority is departing from the home, the church, and the school, it is
well that it can find refuge somewhere in the country. The working of the army rests entirely
upon authority. One single will pervades every part of it, although this will is participated
in by thousands. Every subordinate is independent within limits; but one general will controls
all. Respect for authority is enforced, and thus taught, not in theory alone, but by practice.
The corporal is not the same as a private. The man who holds a commission from the President
represents the high authority of the Republic; and the true soldier yields him both obedience
and respect. Everywhere the soldier is taught obedience to law. After all that I have said,
it is scarcely necessary to emphasize the fact that the soldier's obedience becomes voluntary,
and that he takes pride in his profession. Hence the army is a body of men, not moving according
to their own wills, not a deliberative assembly, but a purely executive body, the incarnation
of law and of force. It is silent, but powerful. It does not talk, but acts; army spells action.

The men who are trained in our Army are not likely to become members of the lawless element.
They have learned too well the lessons of order and the necessity of subordination. The attitude
of the Army upon the vexed race question is better than that of any other secular institution
of our country. When the Fifth Army Corps returned from Cuba and went into camp at Montauk
Point, broken down as it was by a short but severe campaign, it gave to the country a fine
exhibition of the moral effects of military training. There was seen the broadest comradeship.
The four black regiments were there, and cordially welcomed by their companions in arms. In
the maneuvers at Fort Riley, no infantry regiment on the ground was more popular than the 25th;
and in contests the men of the 25th proved their mettle by carrying off nearly every medal
and trophy in sight.

"Perhaps the most notable series of events, in the light of the popular notion of Negro inferiority,
were the athletic sports. The first of these was the baseball game for the championship of
the Department of the Missouri and a silk banner. This contest had gone through the several
organizations, and was finally narrowed down to the 10th Cavalry and the 25th Infantry. On
October 27th, which was set apart as a field day for athletic sports, the officers of the encampment,
many women and civilians, as well as the soldiers of the regular Army present, assembled on
the athletic grounds at 10.30 A. M. to witness the game. A most interesting and thoroughly
scientific game was played, the 25th winning in the eleventh inning by a score of 4 to 3. The
banner would have gone to colored soldiers in either case."

We must not expect too much of the army. It is not a church, not a Sunday-school, not a missionary
society. Its code of morals is very short, very narrow, but it enforces what it has. Its commandments
are:

    1. Thou shalt not fail to obey thy superior officer.
    2. Thou shalt not miss any calls sounded out by the
    trumpeter.
    3. Thou shalt not appear at inspection with anything
    out of order in thy person, clothing, or equipment.
    4. Thou shalt not lie.
    5. Thou shalt not steal.
    6. Thou shalt not leave the post or garrison without
    permission.

I would say, further, that warfare now requires so much from the man who carries it on, that
it is impossible to unite the general and the statesman in one person. The army must be purely
executive, carrying out the mandates of the State. The moral and political questions must be
resolved by men of other professions. The soldier has all that he can do to attend to the exigencies
of the battle.

