VOL. I.--NO. 9. PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK. PRICE FOUR CENTS.

Tuesday, December 30, 1879. Copyright, 1879, by HARPER & BROTHERS. $1.50 per Year, in Advance.

       *       *       *       *       *

A COASTING SONG.

  From the quaint old farm-house, nestling warmly
  'Neath its overhanging thatch of snow,
  Out into the moonlight troop the children,
  Filling all the air with music as they go,
  Gliding, sliding,
  Down the hill,
  Never minding
  Cold nor chill,
  O'er the silvered
  Moon-lit snow,
  Swift as arrow
  From the bow,
  With a rush
  Of mad delight
  Through the crisp air
  Of the night,
  Speeding far out
  O'er the plain,
  Trudging gayly
  Up again
  To where the firelight's
  Ruddy glow
  Turns to gold
  The silver snow.
  Finer sport who can conceive
  Than that of coasting New-Year's Eve?
  Half the fun lies in the fire
  That seems to brighter blaze and higher
  Than any other of the year,
  As though his dying hour to cheer,
  And at the same time greeting give
  To him who has a year to live.
  'Tis built of logs of oak and pine,
  Filled in with branches broken fine;
  It roars and crackles merrily;
  The children round it dance with glee;
  They sing and shout and welcome in
  The new year with a joyous din
  That rings far out o'er hill and dale,
  And warns the watchers in the vale
  'Tis time the church bells to employ
  To spread the universal joy.

  Then the hill is left in silence
  As the coasters homeward go,
  And the crimson of the fire-light
  Fades from off the trodden snow.

  So the years glide by as swiftly
  As the sleds rush down the hill,
  And each new one as it cometh
  Bringeth more of good than ill.

THE FAIRY'S TOKEN.

  Ethelreda, the Fairy of Northland,
    Was singing a song to herself,
  As she swung from a wreath of soft snow-flakes,
    And smiled to another bright elf.

  What token shall we send to our darling,
    Our name-child, fair Ethel, below
  In the house which is down in the valley
    All covered and calm in the snow?

  Shall we gather our glorious jewels,
    And wind them about her lithe form?
  They would glitter and glance in the sunshine,
    And merrily gleam in the storm.

  Shall we clothe her in whitest of ermine,
    And robe her as grand as a queen;
  Weave her laces of ice and of frost-work,
    A mantle of glistening sheen?

  She would shudder and cry at the clasping,
    She would moan aloud in her woe,
  And think the gay robes had been fashioned
    By cruelest, bitterest foe.

  I will none of these gifts for my darling,
    Neither jewels nor laces rare,
  Neither diamonds nor pearls of cold anguish--
    My gift shall be tender and fair.

  Early Ethel awoke Christmas morning,
    And found on her pillow that day
  A bunch of bright little snow-drops,
    From kind Ethelreda, the Fay!

[Begun in No. 1 of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE, November 4.]

THE BRAVE SWISS BOY.

VIII.--THE REWARD OF FIDELITY.

Walter met with a friendly reception from General De Bougy--a brave old warrior who had served
under Napoleon, and fought at Waterloo, where he had been severely wounded, and had lost his
right foot by a cannon-ball. His hair was gray, and his countenance weather-beaten; but in
spite of his age and infirmities he enjoyed tolerably good health, and was always in good humor.
Having from long experience become a keen observer of those around him, it was not long before
he recognized the merits of his new servant, to whom he soon became as much attached as his
nephew had been.

Walter had been about three months in the general's service, and it seemed to all appearance
as if he was likely to become a permanency there, when a letter arrived from Paris, the reading
of which suddenly changed the customary gayety of the old man into the deepest gloom.

"This is a sad affair," said he to Walter, who happened to be in the room at the time. "My
poor nephew!"

"Mr. Lafond? What is the matter with him?" inquired Walter, earnestly.

"He is ill, dangerously ill, poor fellow, so the doctor informs me," replied the general. "You
can read the letter yourself. He seems to complain of being surrounded by strangers, with no
one in the house that he can rely on. If I were not such an old cripple, I would go and help
him to the best of my ability; for although he has led a thoughtless, reckless life, a more
thorough-hearted gentleman does not live. Poor Adolphe!"

"I must go to him, sir," said Walter, suddenly, after hastily reading the letter, the perusal
of which had driven all the color from his cheeks.

"You! Why, it is not long since you left him; and what do you want to go back for?" inquired
the general, in surprise.

"Can you not guess, sir? I must go and nurse him. He must at least have one person near him
to pay him some attention."

"If you care for him so," exclaimed the general, "why did you leave his service?"

This led Walter to explain to the old gentleman the reasons which had compelled him to give
up his situation, and again to beg permission to act the part of nurse to his former master.
A tear sparkled in the old man's eye as the youth declared the attachment he had always cherished
for Mr. Lafond. "Go to him, then," said he. "I can not trust him to a more faithful attendant;
and as soon as I can I will follow you, and take my place with you by his bedside. Poor Adolphe!
Had he only possessed firmness of character, and avoided bad company, he might have been well
and strong to-day. But his unhappy weakness has brought him to the grave before his time, in
spite of all my warnings, and entreaties. As he has sowed, so must he reap. Ah, Walter, his
fate is a terrible proof of the consequences of evil habits. But all regrets are useless now.
Let us lose no time in giving what little help we can."

Making all the necessary preparations for the journey without a moment's delay, Walter soon
reached Paris. When he entered the chamber of Mr. Lafond he was shocked at the change which
a few short months had made in his appearance. It was evident that the doctor had rather disguised
than exaggerated the danger he was in. The sunken eyes and withered face showed only too plainly
that the space of time allotted to him on earth was but short. Walter sank on his knees by
the bedside and taking the pale and wasted hand in his, breathed a prayer that God might see
fit to deal mercifully with a life yet so young; while the invalid smiled faintly, and stroked
the cheek of his faithful attendant.

"Dear Walter, how good of you to come back!" murmured the invalid. "I thought you would not
leave me to die alone. I feared that your prediction would prove true, and therefore I did
not wish you to go home. I wanted to have a true friend with me at the last moment which I
feel can not be far off now."

The faithful Switzer saw that Mr. Lafond too well knew the critical condition he was in to
be deceived by any false hopes, and he therefore did everything in his power to make the last
days of the dying man as free from pain and discomfort as possible. Who could tell what might
be the effect, even at so late a period, of careful nursing and devoted attention? But all
his thoughtful and loving care seemed in vain.

"The end is coming," said the invalid one evening, as the glowing rays of the evening sun streamed
into his apartment. "I shall never more look upon yonder glorious sun, or hear the gay singing
of the birds. I have something to say to you, Walter, before I go. Do you see that black cabinet
in the corner? I bequeath it to you, with everything it contains, and hope with all my heart
that it will help you on in the world as you deserve. Here is the key of my desk, in which
you will find my will, which confirms you in the possession of the cabinet and all its contents.
And now give me your hand, dear boy. Let me look once more upon your honest face. May Heaven
bless you for all your kindness and devotion! Farewell!"

Walter bent over the face of the dying man, and looked at him with deep emotion. He smiled
and closed his eyes; but after lying in a quiet slumber for about an hour, he awoke with a
spasm; his head fell back, and the hapless victim died in the arms of his faithful servant.

The long hours of the night were passed by Walter in weeping and prayer beside the corpse of
the master to whose kindness he had owed so much; but when morning dawned he roused himself
from his grief, and gave the directions that were necessary under the melancholy circumstances.
It was a great relief to him that General De Bougy arrived toward evening to pay the last honors
to his deceased nephew. Two days afterward the funeral took place; and as the mortal remains
were deposited in the family grave, Walter's tears flowed afresh as he thought of the many
proofs of friendship he had received from his departed master.

A day or two afterward he was awakened from his sorrow by news from home. The letter was from
Neighbor Frieshardt, who again thanked him for the money he had received for the sale of the
cattle, praised him for the faithfulness and ability with which he had managed the business,
and then went on to speak of Walter's father. "The old man," he wrote, "is in good health,
but he feels lonely, and longs for you to come back. 'If Watty only were here, I should feel
quite young again,' he has said to me a hundred times. He sends you his love; and Seppi, who
is still with me, and is now a faithful servant, does the same. So good-by, Walter. I think
you now know what you had better do."

Without any delay Walter hastened to the general, showed him the letter, and told him he had
decided to leave Paris and return home.

The general used all his powers of persuasion, promised to regard the young mountaineer as
his own son; but it was all of no use. Walter spoke so earnestly of his father's solitary home,
and the desire he felt to see his native mountains once more, that the old gentleman had to
reconcile himself to parting with him. "Go home, then," said he. "When the voice of Duty calls,
it is sinful to resist. But before you go, we must open my nephew's will. It will surprise
me very much if there is nothing in it of importance to you." Unlocking the desk, the will
was found sealed up as it had been left by Mr. Lafond. After opening it, the general read the
document carefully through, and laid it down on the table with an expression of disappointment.
"Poor fellow!" he exclaimed. "Death must have surprised him too suddenly, Walter, or he would
certainly have left you a larger legacy. This is all he says about you: 'To Walter Hirzel,
my faithful and devoted servant, I bequeath the black cabinet in my bedroom, with all its contents,
and thank him sincerely for all his attention to me.' That is the whole of it. But never mind,
my young friend; the old general is still alive, and he will make good all that his nephew
has forgotten."

Walter shook his head. "Thanks, a thousand times, dear sir, but indeed I wish for nothing.
My feet will carry me to my native valley; and once I am there, I can easily earn my living.
I dare say there will be some little keepsake in the cabinet that I can take in memory of my
poor master, and I want nothing more."

"Then search the cabinet at once. Where is the key?"

"Here," said Walter, taking it from his pocket. "Mr. Lafond gave me the cabinet shortly before
his death, and handed me the key at the same time."

"And have you never thought of opening it to see what it contained?"

"No," replied Walter. "It did not occur to me to do so. But I will go and see now." With these
words he left the room, and went up to the apartment where the piece of furniture stood. In
the various drawers were found the watch, rings, and jewelry his master had been accustomed
to wear. As he viewed these tokens of regard, his eyes were bedewed with melancholy gratitude.
Carefully placing the jewelry in a little box, he was about to close the cabinet again, when
his eye fell upon a drawer which he had omitted to open. Here, to his infinite surprise, he
found a packet with the inscription, in his late master's handwriting, "The Reward of Fidelity,"
which, on opening, he found to contain bank-notes for one hundred thousand francs.

"Well, what have you found?" inquired the general, eagerly, when the half-bewildered youth
returned.

"This watch and jewelry, and a packet of bank-notes," replied Walter, laying them on the table.

"One hundred thousand francs!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "That is something worth having.
Why, that will be a fortune to you; and I am now sorry that I did my nephew the injustice to
think he had forgotten you. I wish you joy with all my heart!"

"For what do you wish me joy, sir?"

"For what? For the money," said the general, in surprise.

"But that is not for me," said the Switzer, shaking his head. "This watch and the jewelry I
will keep as long as I live, in memory of my good master; but the money must have been left
there by mistake, and I should feel like a thief if I were to take any of it."

The old general opened his eyes as wide as he could, and stared in astonishment at the simplicity
of the youth. "I'm afraid you are out of your mind," said he. "The will says, 'The black cabinet,
with all its contents.' The bank-notes were in it, and of course they are yours."

"And yet it must be a mistake."

"But I tell you it is no mistake," exclaimed the general, impatiently. "Look at the inscription,
'The Reward of Fidelity!' To whom should that apply but to you? Put the money in your pocket,
Walter, and let us have no more absurd doubts about it."

But the young man persisted in his refusal, and pushed the packet away from him. "It is too
much," said he; "I can not think of robbing you of such a large sum."

"Well, then," said the general, greatly touched by such singular unselfishness, "I must settle
the business. If you won't take the money, I will take you. From this day, Walter, you are
my son. Come to my heart. Old as it is, it beats warmly for fidelity and honesty. Thanks to
God that He has given me such a son in my lonely old age!"

Walter stood as if rooted to the spot. But the old man drew him to his breast and embraced
him warmly, till both found relief for their feelings in tears.

"But my father," stammered the young man at last. "My father is all alone at home."

"Oh, we will start off to him at once, bag and baggage," exclaimed the general. "I know your
fatherland well, and shall very soon feel myself more at home there than I am in France, where
there is not a creature left to care for me. Yes, Walter, we will go to the glorious Bernese
Oberland, and buy ground, and build a house, within view of your noble mountains, and live
there with your father. He shall have cattle and goats to cheer his heart in his old age, and
we will lead a happy life together as long as God spares us."

Walter in his happiness could scarcely believe his ears, and thought the whole a splendid dream.
But he soon found the reality. The general sold his property in France, and departed with his
adopted son to Switzerland, where he carried out the intention he had so suddenly formed. Old
Toni Hirzel renewed his youth when he had his son once more beside him, and he and the general
soon became fast friends. A year had scarcely passed ere a beautiful house was built near Meyringen,
and furnished with every comfort; while an ample garden, surrounded by meadows, in which cows
and oxen fed, added to the beauty of the scene. Walter's dream had become a reality; and everything
around him was so much better than he had ever dared to hope, that his heart overflowed with
gratitude to God, and to the benefactor who had done so much for him.

Nor was this prosperity undeserved. Walter had not spent his time in idleness and sloth. He
knew that the diligent hand maketh its owner rich, and he managed the land with so much energy
and skill that he soon became renowned as one of the best farmers in the Oberland. The general
and Toni assisted him with their counsel and help as far as they were able; and the old soldier
soon experienced the beneficial influence of an active out-door life and the change of air
and scene. His pale cheeks grew once more ruddy with health, and he soon grew so active that
he even forgot that his right foot lay buried on the field of Waterloo.

Thus the little family lived in happiness, enjoying the good wishes of all their neighbors,
and the gratitude of all who were in want; for they were always ready to relieve out of their
abundance any who needed it. Mr. Seymour increased their happiness by visiting his friend Walter
nearly every year, and rejoiced in the prosperity which God had bestowed upon him as a reward
for his honesty and uprightness.

THE END.

AROUND THE WORLD IN A STEAM-YACHT.

The beautiful steam-yacht Henriette, of which a picture is given on this page, has just left
New York, bound on a pleasure voyage around the world. Her passengers are her owner, M. Henri
Say, and his wife and child, and they will doubtless have a most pleasant voyage, and see many
strange sights and countries before it is ended.

The general outline of the route to be pursued is from New York down the coast, touching at
Baltimore and Washington, and possibly at some of the Southern ports, then to the West Indies,
where several weeks will be spent in cruising among the beautiful islands. Some of the principal
South American cities will be visited before stormy Cape Horn is doubled, and the Henriette
enters the quieter waters of the Pacific. Then the plan of the voyage includes the Sandwich
Islands, San Francisco, Japan, China, Australia, the East Indian islands, India, Arabia, the
Red Sea, Egypt, the Suez Canal, Turkey, the many interesting countries bordering on the Mediterranean,
and at last France, where M. Say's home is, and where the long voyage will end in the harbor
of Nantes.

The Henriette was built at Newburgh, on the Hudson, last summer, at a cost of $50,000, and
was originally named the Shaughraun; but she was sold, and her name changed, before she went
on her first cruise. She is rigged as a top-sail schooner, and under steam can make seventeen
knots an hour, which is very fast travelling. She is 205 feet long over all, and is the largest
steam-yacht but one ever built in this country. She is to be accompanied in her trip around
the world by a smaller steam-yacht, or tender, named the Follet, in which will be carried quantities
of choice provisions and extra supplies of all kinds. The crew of the Henriette numbers thirty
men, all of whom are French, excepting her engineers, who are Americans, and the discipline
maintained on board is that of a French man-of-war.

THE NEW YEAR'S ERRAND.

"What are those children doing?" asked the clergyman of his wife a few days after Christmas.

"I really can not tell you, James," was the reply, as his wife peered anxiously over his shoulder,
and out of the window. "All that I know about it is this: I was busy in the pantry, when Rob
put his head in, and asked if he could have the Christmas tree, as nearly everything had been
taken off of it; so I said 'Yes,' and there he goes with it, sure enough. I do hope the wax
from the candles has not spotted the parlor carpet."

"Don't be anxious, wife; 'Christmas comes but once a year, and when it comes should bring good
cheer.'"

"Yes," said the careful housewife, "I suppose I do worry. But there! it is snowing again, and
Bertha perched up on that tree on Rob's sled, and she so subject to croup!"

"The more she is out in the pure air, the less likely she is to take cold; but where are they
going?"

"I really do not know, James. Did you ever see a dog more devoted to any one than Jip is to
Rob? There he goes, dancing beside him now; and I see Rob has tied on the scarf Bertha knit
for him; that is done to please her. She did work so hard to get it finished in time before
he came home for the holidays."

"She is very like her own dear little mother in kindness and care for others," was the reply.

The mother gave a bright smile and a kiss for the compliment, but a little wail from the nursery
hurried her out of the room.

Christmas at the parsonage had been delightful, for, first of all, Rob's return from boarding-school
was a pleasurable event; he always came home in such good spirits, was so full of his jokes
and nonsense, and had so many funny things to tell about the boys. Then there was the dressing
of the church with evergreens, and the decoration of the parlor with wreaths of holly or running
pine, and the spicy smell of all the delicacies which were in course of preparation, for Sally
was a famous cook, and would brook no interference when mince-pies and plum-pudding were to
be concocted.

But the children thought the arrival of a certain box, which was always dispatched from town,
the very best of all the Christmas delights. This box came from their rich aunts and uncles,
who seemed to think that the little parsonage must be a dreary place in winter, and so, to
make up to its inmates for losing all the brightness of a city winter, they sent everything
they could think of in the way of beautiful pictures, gorgeous books, games, sugar-plums, and
enough little glittering things for two or three trees. Of course the clergyman always laid
aside some of these things for other occasions, lest the children should be surfeited.

And so Christmas had passed happily, as usual. The school-children had sung their carols and
enjoyed their feast, the poor had been carefully looked after and made comfortable, and there
had come the usual lull after a season of excitement. It was now the day before the first of
the new year, and the parson was writing a sermon. He was telling people what a good time it
was to try and turn over a new leaf; to be nobler, truer, braver, than they had ever been before;
to let the old year carry away with it all selfishness, all anger, envy, and unloving thoughts;
and as he wrote, he looked out of the window at the falling snow, and wondered where Bob and
Bertha could have gone.

Dinner-time came. Aunt Ellen, mamma, and the parson sat down alone. "Where are those children?"
repeated mamma.

"I do not think you need be worried, Kate," said Aunt Ellen. "Rob is so thoughtful, he will
take good care of Bertha. They have perhaps stopped in at a neighbor's, and been coaxed to stay."

"Very likely," said the parson. And then the baby came in, crowing and chuckling, and claiming
his privileges, such as sitting in a high chair and feeding the cat, and mamma had enough to
do to keep the merry fellow in order, or his fat little hands would have grasped all the silver,
and pulled over the glasses.

After dinner, while the parson let the baby twist his whiskers or creep about his knees, mamma
played some lovely German music, and Aunt Ellen crocheted. The short afternoon grew dusky.
Baby went off to the nursery; the parson had lighted his cigar, and was going out for a walk,
but mamma looked so anxious that he said,

"I will go look for the children, Kate."

"Really, I think you will have to give Rob a little scolding, my dear. He should have told
us where he was going."

"Yes, I suppose so," said the parson; when just then there was a gleeful cry--a merry chorus
made up of Rob's, Bertha's, and Jip's voices, and there they were, Bertha on the sled, and
Rob was her horse.

"Where have you been, my son?" said the parson, trying to be severe. "You should not have gone
off in this manner for the whole day without asking permission."

Rob's bright smile faded a little; but Bertha said, quickly, "Please, papa, don't scold Rob.
If you only knew--"

"Hush, Bertha!" said Rob; and red as his cheeks were, they grew redder.

"I am sorry you are offended, sir. I did not mean to be so long. We were detained."

"What detained you?"

"And where did you get your dinner?" asked mamma.

"Oh, we had plenty to eat."

"But you don't intend us to know where you got it?"

"No, sir," said Rob, frankly.

"Now, papa, you shall not scold Rob," said Bertha, putting her hand in his. "Come into your
study. Go away, Rob; go give Jip his supper. Come, mamma;" and Bertha dragged them both in
to the fire, where, with sparkling eyes and cheeks like carnation, she began to talk: "Mamma,
you remember that scrimmage Rob got into with the village boys last Fourth of July, and how
hatefully they knocked him down, and how bruised his eye was for a long time?"

"Yes, I remember, and I always blamed Rob. He should never have had anything to do with those
rowdies."

"I didn't blame him; I never blame Rob for anything, except when he won't do what I want him
to do. Well, the worst one of all those horrid boys is Sim Jenkins--at least he was; I don't
think he's quite so bad now. But he has been punished for all his badness, for he hurt his
leg awfully, and has been laid up for months--so his mother says; and she is quite nice. She
gave us our dinner to-day. Somehow or other, Rob heard that Sim was in bed, and had not had
any Christmas things, and that his mother was poor; and she says all her money has gone for
doctor's bills and medicine. And so it just came into his head that perhaps it would do Sim
good to have a Christmas-tree on New-Year's Day; and he asked Mrs. Jenkins, and she was afraid
it would make a muss, but Rob said he would be careful. And so he carried our tree over, and
fixed it in a box, and covered the box with moss, and we have been as busy as bees trying to
make it look pretty. And that is what has kept us so long, for Rob had to run down to the store
and get things--nails and ribbons, and I don't know what all. And Sim is not to know anything
about the tree until to-morrow. And please give us some of the pretty things which were in
our box, for we could not get quite enough to fill all the branches. Rob spent so much of his
pocket-money on a knife for Sim that he had none left for candy; for he said the tree would
not give Sim so much pleasure unless there was something on it which he could always keep."

Here little Bertha stopped for want of breath, and looked into the faces of her listeners.

The parson put his arm around her as he said, "I hardly think we can scold Rob now, after special
pleading so eloquent as this; what do you say, mamma?"

"I say that Rob is just like his father in doing this kindly deed, and I am glad to be the
mother of a boy who can return good for evil."

The parson made a bow. "Now we are even, madam, in the matter of gracious speeches."

So Sim Jenkins woke up on New-Year's Day to see from his weary bed a vision of brightness--a
little tree laden with its fruit of kindness, its flowers of a forgiving spirit; and as the
parson preached his New-Year's sermon, and saw Rob's dark eyes looking up at him, he thought
of the verse,

  "In their young hearts, soft and tender,
    Guide my hand good seed to sow,
  That its blossoming may praise Thee
    Wheresoe'er they go."

LAFAYETTE'S FIRST WOUND.

