When these contests take place in baths, it is not a pleasant sight to watch a swimmer struggling
on, against odds, in the hope of beating a rival for the coveted prize. The action of the arms
and legs become slower and slower, until at last, from sheer exhaustion, the body rises toward
the surface for a short distance and then sinks to the bottom motionless.

One of the advantages of being able to swim under water is the ability it imparts to the swimmer
to reach the body of a drowning person, or to bring the body of a drowned person to the surface.

In swimming under water, the ordinary breast stroke is the one used. To swim downward, the
head is prest down toward the breast, and when wishing to rise the head is deflected backward.

If swimming under water for a long distance, the body should be kept near the surface, for
the reason that the pressure is greater in the corresponding depth. Care should be taken to
fill the lungs before starting, and as soon as the first symptoms of asphyxiation are noticeable,
the swimmer should rise to the surface.

Among the notable feats accomplished under water may be mentioned that of James Finney, in
England, in 1882, who accomplished a distance of 340 feet. William Reilly, of Salford, an amateur,
swam 312 feet under water.

The time limit for under-water swimming is about a minute and a half. At the Crystal Palace,
London, England, in 1892, in a diver's tank 15 feet deep, Prof. F.E. Dalton picked up 74 plates
in a single immersion.

MONTE CRISTO SACK TRICK

This is one of the most sensational performances of the professional swimmer. From a spectacular
point of view it is very effective. To do this trick one must be an adept at under-water swimming;
an assistant is necessary in order to tie the knots properly.

The sack to be used must be large enough to allow plenty of room for the swimmer to move about.
At the bottom of the sack place a number of heavy weights. A hole must be cut at the top to
allow the rope to be passed through.

The swimmer gets into the sack, taking firm hold of the loosened ends of the doubled rope and
that part of the sack close to it. The assistant then takes hold of the ends of the rope and
ties them around the sack. The knots must be made on the other side of the sack from that on
which the ends have been passed through. After warning the swimmer, so that he may inflate
his lungs, he is thrown into the water. The weights at the bottom of the sack will cause him
to sink feet first.

After remaining in the sack a few seconds the performer releases the ends of the rope held
by him and pushes the sack open with his hands, when he is free to rise to the surface.

This appears to be a very dangerous feat, but in reality is a very simple one for a good swimmer.

NOTABLE FEATS BY CELEBRATED SWIMMERS

Considerable interest was aroused in the early part of August, 1875, when the statement was
made that Captain Matthew Webb, an Englishman who had served as second mate on several ships
in the Indian and North Atlantic trade, intended to attempt the remarkable feat of swimming
across the English Channel. His first attempt resulted in failure. This took place on August
12, 1875. After swimming for 6 hours 48 minutes and 30 seconds, during which period he covered
13-1/2 miles, Webb was compelled to leave the water owing to having drifted 9-3/4 miles to
the eastward of his course by a northeast stream and stress of weather. Webb started from Dover
2 hours 25 minutes before high water on a tide rising 13 feet 7 inches at that port. When he
gave up no estimate could be formed as to the probable distance he would have gone west on
the tide.

In his second and successful attempt, on August 24 of the same year, Webb started from Dover
3-1/4 hours before high water on a 15-foot 10-inch tide, which gave him one hour and three-quarters
of the southwest stream. His point of landing was 21-1/2 miles from Dover, as the crow flies,
but the actual length of the swim was 39-1/2 miles. Very little rest was taken by Webb on the
way. When he did stop it was to take refreshment, and then he was treading water. During the
whole time he had no recourse to artificial aids. Of this there is indisputable proof. The
journalists who acompanied him across in a boat were careful in their observations, and were
men whose accuracy could be depended on. The temperature of the water was about 65 degrees.
Webb never complained of cold.

For the first 15 hours the weather was fine. The sea was as smooth as glass, the sun obscured
during the day by a haze, so that the heat did not affect Webb's head, and in the night a three-quartered
moon lighted him on his way. The worst time began at 3 A.M. on August 25th, as drowsiness had
to be overcome and rough water was entered. At this hour he was only some 4-1/2 miles off Cape
Grisnez, France, and altho he was not then strong enough to strike out a direct course athwart
the new northeast stream for land, he was fetching well in for Sangette, where he would undoubtedly
have landed between 7 and 8 A.M. had adverse weather not set in. He finally landed on the Calais
sands after having been in the water 21 hours 45 minutes. After performing this feat, Webb
for some years gave exhibitions of diving and swimming at an aquarium in London and elsewhere.
In July, 1883, he came to America for the purpose of swimming the rapids and whirlpool at Niagara,
and in this attempt lost his life.

On September 1, 1875, Miss Agnes Beckwith, then only fourteen years of age, swam from London
Bridge to Greenwich, a distance of five miles. Beginning her journey at eight minutes to five,
Miss Beckwith covered the first mile and a half in 18 minutes. Limehouse Church--a trifle over
halfway--was passed in 33 minutes, and Greenwich Pier was reached in 1 hour 7 minutes 45 seconds.

On September 4, 1875, Miss Emily Parker, who had previously undertaken to swim the same distance
as Miss Beckwith, not only equalled but excelled the performance of Miss Beckwith. She went
on to Blackwall, a distance of seven miles, the time being 1 hour 37 minutes.

On December, 1899, Captain Davis Dalton swam for 12 hours continuously at the Latchmere Public
Baths in London, England.

On August 17, 1890, Captain Dalton left Folkestone for Boulogne with the intention of swimming
back across the Channel to Folkestone, a distance of 27 miles. Dalton exprest his conviction
that he could perform the journey in 20 hours, and if successful would beat the time of Captain
Webb. He entered the water at four o'clock on Sunday afternoon, and accomplished the journey,
without any remarkable incident, at half-past three the following afternoon.

In July, 1891, Captain Dalton swam from Blackwall to Gravesend in the River Thames, London,
covering the entire distance on his back.

In December, 1891, Captain Dalton swam for 16 hours continuously at the Dover Baths, England.

On August 27, 1902, after several brilliant attempts, Montagu Holbein swam the English Channel,
but was compelled to desist when only two miles from the finishing point, after staying in
the water for 22-1/2 hours.

The following feats have been recorded as accomplished during the year 1911:

William T. Burgess, of Yorkshire, England, crossed the English Channel from South Foreland,
Dover, England, to La Chatelet, two miles east of Cape Gris Nez, France. Burgess started at
11.15 A.M., September 5, and finished at 9.50 A.M., September 6. Time, 22 hours 35 minutes.
The distance is 40 miles. Burgess is said to have covered nearly 60 miles, owing to changes
in the tide and currents.

On June 11th Martin M. Harris, in an attempt to swim from Chester, Pa., to Market Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., a distance of 16-1/2 miles, was forced to retire at Greenwich, after covering 13-1/2 miles
in 4 hours 8 minutes.

On June 25th Charles Durburrow swam from the Million Dollar Pier, Atlantic City, N.J., to Ocean
City, about 8 miles, in the open sea in 5 hours 33 minutes.

On July 22d Jabez Wolffe, in an attempt to cross the English Channel from Sangatte, France,
had to retire when within a mile of St. Margaret's Bay, England, owing to adverse tides, after
15 hours' swimming.

On July 23d Charles Durburrow, in an attempt to swim from the Battery, New York City, to Sandy
Hook, was forced to give up, owing to adverse tides, when 1-1/4 miles from Sandy Hook, after
swimming about 20 miles in 6 hours 43 minutes. About this time Joseph O'Connor swam from Watertown,
Mass., in the Charles River, to Cambridge Bridge, Boston, a distance of about 8 miles, in 6
hours 46 minutes.

On August 6th Samuel Richards swam from Charlestown Bridge, Boston, to Boston Light, a distance
of about 10 miles, in 6 hours 15 minutes.

On August 13th Noah Marks swam from Chester, Pa., in the Delaware River, to Walnut Street,
Philadelphia, Pa., a distance of 16-3/4 miles, in 5 hours 19 minutes. Miss Rose Pitonoff swam
from East Twenty-sixth Street, New York City, to Steeplechase Park Pier, Coney Island, a distance
of about 20 miles, in 8 hours 17 minutes.

On August 20th Miss A. Akroyd swam from Charlestown Bridge, Boston, to Boston Lightship in
7 hours 12 minutes 57 seconds. Raymond Frederickson finished first in a swim of the U.S. Volunteer
Life Saving Corps from the Battery to Coney Island in 6 hours 2 minutes 30 seconds.

On September 3d Miss Adelaide Trapp swam from North Beach to St. George, Staten Island, New
York, a distance of about 14 miles, in 5 hours 10 minutes. William D. McAllister won a long-distance
swim from L Street bath, Boston, to Spectacle Island and return in 4 hours 50 minutes.

All of these swims were made with aid from tide or current.

PART IV

WATER POLO

AS A PASTIME

Water polo has become one of the most popular and fascinating of all water sports. It can be
indulged in by very good swimmers only. It affords abundant opportunity for the exhibition
of skill and endurance.

For the following account of water polo the author is indebted to a volume from Spalding's
Athletic Library, entitled "Water Polo," written by L. de B. Handley, permission to use it
having kindly been granted by the publishers:

The value of an athletic game or contest is determined by four things: Its physical-culture
merits; its utility; its attractiveness as a pastime, and its spectacular features.

Water polo has few equals as a means of developing the body. The swimming alone in it would
insure general and symmetrical development, but the player wrestles besides, during a game,
and every part of the body is given its proportionate share of this gruelling work, developing
all muscles in a uniform way.

As to its utility, it is self-evident. Swimming has come to be looked upon as a necessity,
simply because it may be the means of saving life, and in this water polo is the most practical
of teachers. A player is coached on how to free himself from every kind of a tackle, how to
assist an exhausted team-mate and how to apply the best methods of resuscitation when any one
is knocked out. Then these teachings have to be practised frequently while the team is at work,
and one becomes proficient insensibly and as a matter of course. It is a revelation to see
an expert player handle a drowning person, and more especially a frantic one. The rescue is
performed in such an easy, matter-of-fact way as to lead one to wonder at the halo of heroism
that surrounds most cases of life-saving. Hardly a player but has several rescues to his credit,
which he looks upon as a series of trifling services rendered to a fellow mortal, and no more.

As a pastime water polo is among the leaders. Hard and exhausting it may be, but there is an
exhilaration in dashing about the pool, fighting one's way to goal, that no other game gives.
And it has a feature that appeals strongly to the man who has attained manhood and its numerous
responsibilities--the rarity of accidents. Bruises and knockouts one gets a-plenty, but those
serious injuries which mar football, hockey and lacrosse are totally unknown.

ITS EVOLUTION IN AMERICA

There is a belief that a game similar to water polo was played by the ancients, but no actual
proof of it has been found. Rules were first formulated in England in 1870, and we adopted
them in America about 1890, but our present game bears absolutely no resemblance to the one
that was then played. In the latter, points were scored by throwing an inflated rubber ball
nine inches in diameter through an open goal marked by uprights and a cross-bar; and passing
was the feature of the game. Americans found it unsuited. The few available tanks were so small
that there was no place for action, and the outdoor season was too short to be satisfactory.

The idea was then conceived of changing the goal into a solid surface, four feet by one in
size, and to oblige the scorer to touch the ball to the goal while holding it, instead of passing
it.

The innovation met ready favor, but, as may be imagined, transformed the game. From an open
passing one water polo became one of close formations and fierce scrimmages. These, at first,
were disorderly scuffles, where weight and brute strength reigned supreme, but little by little
strict rules were formulated to eliminate rough tactics, and then science became an important
factor.

In 1897 a man entered the field who was destined to revolutionize the system of play.

Harold H. Reeder, of the late Knickerbocker Athletic A.C., besides being a good leader and
a brilliant individual player, knew how to handle men. He realized that in a growing sport
new ideas would mean development, and he made it possible for the members of his squad to experiment
with those they had. The system he used is worth a few words of explanation, because it was
accountable for the wonderful strides made since 1897, and because every team will profit by
its adoption.

Reeder, well aided by Prof. Alex. Meffett, began by teaching every candidate the rudiments
of the game; veterans and greenhorns alike were put through the mill. Each was schooled in
the principles of swimming, diving, catching, passing, scoring, interfering, tackling and breaking,
until these points had been thoroughly mastered, and only then did the team practise begin.
But again, no player was allowed in unprepared. Reeder instituted blackboard practise and saw
that every one attended it. Placing before his assembled squad the possible formations, he
made players selected at random explain the duties of every position in each formation. By
this system he obliged every player to use his brains, and he found out the amount of water-polo
intelligence that each possest. He also imparted to each the ideas of all the others, he taught
them how to fill every position and he brought to light many new plays.

The progress which the innovation was responsible for no one realized until the aggregation
of yearlings from the Knickerbocker Athletic Club defeated the formidable array of champions
representing the New York Athletic Club. Reeder abandoned the game two years later, but his
good work lived after him, and some of his team-mates held the championship for many years
by following his teachings.

HOW THE GAME IS NOW PLAYED

Water polo as played to-day in America is rather dangerous for outdoors, and indoor pools are
generally used. It is a contest between two teams of six, having as object the touching of
the opponent's goalboard with an inflated rubber ball seven inches in diameter, which the referee
throws into the water at start of play.

In order to score, the ball has to be touched to the goal while in the hand of a player; it
can not be thrown. The goals are spaces four by one foot, situated at each short end of the
playing area, eighteen inches above the water level. The size of the playing area is optional,
tho the recognized dimensions are 60 x 40 feet or 25 x 75 feet, with a uniform depth of seven
feet of water. Imaginary lines are drawn across the tank (see Fig. T), parallel to the short
ends, at four and fifteen feet from them. The first, called four-foot line, serves as protection
to the goal-tenders and can not be crossed until the ball is within; the other is the foul
line, and serves to mark the spot on which the forwards line up on being given a free trial.
The four-foot line also marks the goal section, a space 4 x 8 feet, in which indiscriminate
tackling is allowed when the ball is within.

Each team of six is divided into a forward line (center, right forward and left forward) whose
duty it is to attack the opponent's goal; and a backfield of three (half-back, right goal-tender
and left goal-tender), upon whom devolves the defense of the home goal.

At the start of play the two teams line up their respective ends, the referee places the ball
in the middle of the playing area and then blows a whistle. At this signal the twelve players
dive in, the forwards to make a dash for the ball, the backs to take up their positions. The
forward who first reaches the ball tosses it back to the defense men, who hold it until the
line of attack is formed and then pass it back. Immediately a fierce scrimmage takes place
and either a score is made or the ball changes side and a scrimmage occurs at the other end.
After the score the teams line up as at start of play.

Time of play is sixteen minutes, actual, divided into two halves of eight minutes each, with
an intermission of five minutes between halves. Only two substitutes are allowed, and they
can only be used to replace an injured or exhausted player.

PREPARATORY WORK

No man should attempt to play water polo who is not in the best possible physical condition.
Before joining the squad, every candidate, be he a novice coming to learn the game, or a veteran
resuming training, should prepare himself for the hard work in sight. I don't mean that he
should be down to edge, but in good ruddy health. As a matter of fact, a man is far better
off if he can start the season with eight or ten pounds of extra avoirdupois; and four or five
pounds above "pink of condition" may be carried throughout the season with good results. They
will prevent one's getting cold while in the water and keep one from going stale, a very easy
matter in water polo.

Preliminary exercise should be taken daily for a week or two in anticipation of starting practise.
Long swims are advisable at this early date, but should be abandoned while preparing for a
contest, as one sprints only in a game.

The best system to follow is a very simple one.

A few minutes in the steam-room (not more than five) or some calisthenics to warm up the blood,
then a fast hundred. This done, rest until you have regained your breath. Taking the water-polo
ball next, pass it to given points of the tank to secure accuracy, and sprint after it each
time. Then get against the side of the tank, and placing the ball ten or twelve feet away,
try to secure it with one hand on a push-off. This, done half a dozen times daily, will insure
accurate passing, catching and obviate fumbling.

Another excellent exercise is to place the ball fifteen or twenty feet from you and then swim
after it under water, trying to get it without coming to the surface. This has the double object
of getting you used to under-water work and accustoms you to looking for the ball while submerged
in a scrimmage.

Gymnasium work is not advisable unless one's physical condition is badly in need of building
up, and even then only the lightest kind should be taken. It has too great a tendency to harden
the muscles; a swimmer's should be soft and pliable.

Breathing exercises can be highly recommended; there is nothing better for the wind. A good
system is to take it while walking in the open air. By inhaling for the space of six steps,
and exhaling for six, the lungs are properly worked. In cold weather breathe through the nose.

HOW TO DEVELOP THE NEW PLAYER

The game of water polo is such a strenuous one that even the best of men often tackle it with
misgivings. The new player should on no account attempt to take part in a scrub game until
he has thoroughly mastered the rudiments. The man who goes in against an experienced tackler,
ignorant of the means of protecting himself, receives punishment so severe as to give him a
completely erroneous idea of the game.

If the candidate has followed the suggestions given above he will be physically able to stand
the gruelling, but more is needed; he should be able to take care of himself. To teach him
how, he must be taken in hand alone, and shown the various tackles and breaks.

This is best done on terra firma; in the water the man will be thinking of the ducking in sight
and his mind will not be in receptive mood. It is also essential to make him understand a hold
thoroughly before proceeding with another.

Once a man has the movements learned, he can be put in the water with a skilled player and
allowed to practise on the latter, who should let him secure the holds without opposition at
first, but gradually increase the resistance until he becomes proficient. If there is no one
to coach and no good player to practise against, the new men should work on each other.

Water-polo holds are a good deal a matter of individuality; each man builds up a set of his
own, but one tackle and one break will serve as a foundation for all.

To learn the tackle, give your coworker the ball and let him come toward you. When he's a couple
of feet off, take a good, hard stroke, lift yourself as high out of the water as you can throw
your arm around his neck, and pulling his head down until it is jammed hard against your chest,
wind your legs around his body. Then you have him at your mercy, and you can proceed to take
the ball away from him. This tackle should be learned by forwards and backs alike; all need it.

The best break known is the following: We will suppose that you carry the ball in the right
hand. On approaching your opponent throw your left shoulder forward, presenting a three-quarter
view. To tackle you effectively he must use his right arm, as you could easily repel a left-handed
one in your position. As soon as his right arm goes up, place your left hand squarely under
his armpit and let yourself sink, twisting around, face toward him, as you pass under, and
as soon as you are on your back force his body over you. Then plant both feet on him and shove
off. In most cases, if you succeed, you will find yourself between your opponent and his goal,
where all you have to do is to touch the board for a score.

To use the legs at every possible chance should be a principle of the player. Once an opponent
is caught in a good leg-hold he is rendered helpless. Incidentally, the wise player ceases
struggling when he recognizes that he is caught beyond freeing. It is an excellent rule also
to avoid being tackled uselessly; if a body encounter is liable to let you out best, or will
help your side, go into it heart and soul, just as hard as you know how, but never make a senseless
sacrifice.

Passing and catching are all important factors in water polo and should be practised constantly.
In passing it is well to bear in mind that the object in view is to give the ball securely
to one's team-mate. Pass high and carefully; a low throw may be intercepted and a hard one
fumbled. Specially in close quarters high passing is essential.

To cover one's opponent when the other side has the ball and get away from him when one's own
has it, should be the religion of every player. In covering him, always stay back of him, where
you can watch him, and tackle him just in the nick of time if the ball is passed to him.

Many new men have an idea that one knows intuitively how to score, but it is not so. The various
ways must be learned. One only does in a game what one has become used to in practise, for
there is little time or chance to think in the excitement of a keen contest, and it is those
things which have been ground into one by dint of repetition that stand by one. To get used
to scoring, place yourself three or four yards from goal and then sink yourself, or let some
one else put you under, and try to come up and hit the board with eyes closed; you will soon
find what a difference practise makes. You must also learn how to hurdle by letting some one
tread water between you and goal and score by placing your free hand on his shoulder and lifting
yourself over.

A short course of the above, and you will be ready to line up.

A FEW POINTS

On entering the tank for an important game, every player should forget his individuality and
submit passively to the orders of the captain. There must be only one head for a team to succeed,
and an order should be executed without hesitation and without questioning; right or wrong,
the best results come through blind obedience. The man giving the orders often sees an opening
that the other does not.

Let no personal difference affect your game; play to win, not to pay off an old score. It is
the goals made, not the men disabled, that give one victory, and victory is what every player
should seek.

To the forward, discrimination is a valuable asset. When caught in a tackle so far away from
goal that getting free will not help you pass the ball at once, don't allow your opponent to
punish you. But if you are nailed within easy reach of goal, fight as long as there is breath
of life in you. Never mind how helpless the task may seem, a team-mate may come to the rescue
at any moment, and then you'll score.

The forward should always play the ball in preference to the man and keep free as much as possible.
And above all--play fast and hard.

AMERICAN RULES

1. The ball shall be the regulation white rubber association football not less than 7 nor more
than 8 inches in diameter.

2. One shall be placed at either end of the tank, 18 inches above the water-line equally distant
from either side.

3. To score a goal the goal must be touched by the ball in the hand of an opposing player and
the greatest number of goals shall count game.

4. The ball shall be kept on or as near the surface of the water as possible, and shall never
intentionally be carried under water. No goal shall be allowed when scored by an under-water pass.

5. The contesting teams shall consist of six a side, with two reserve men who can be substituted
at any time when the ball is not in play. A player withdrawn can not return to play. Only six
prizes shall be given to the winning team.

6. Time of play shall be 16 minutes actual time, divided in two halves of 8 minutes each and
5 minutes rest between halves. Time occupied by disputes, free trials for goal, repairing suits,
and lining up after a goal has been scored shall not be reckoned as time of play.

7. The captains shall be playing members of teams they represent and shall toss for choice
of ends of tank. The ends shall be changed at half time.

8. The referee shall throw the ball in the center of the tank and the start for the ball be
made only at the sound of the whistle.

9. A ball going out of the tank shall be returned to the place from which it was thrown and
given to the opposing team.

10. A mark shall be made four feet from each goal on the side of the tank and an imaginary
line between these marks shall be called the four-foot line. No man will be allowed within
this line until the ball is within it. The goal-tenders, limited to two, of the defending side
are alone exempt from this rule. When the ball is within the goal-line the goal-tenders shall
not be allowed any artificial support other than the bottom of the tank.

11. No player is allowed to interfere with an opponent unless such an opponent is within four
feet of the ball, except when the ball is within the goal section, when indiscriminate tackling
will be allowed in the goal section, the goal section to be a space of four feet by eight feet
within the goal-line and between two parallel lines drawn at right angles to the goal-line
and distant two feet from either end of the goal.

12. Upon a goal being gained, the opposite teams shall go to their own end of the tank, and
the ball shall be thrown by the referee into the center and play started as at beginning of game.

13. Each team shall have two judges, one at each goal-line, who, upon a goal being made, shall
notify the referee and announce the same.

Only in case the judges disagree shall the referee have power to decide whether a goal be fairly
made or not.

14. The referee shall decide all fouls, and if in his opinion a player commits a foul he shall
caution the team for the first offense and give the opponents a free trial for goal at each
succeeding foul.

A free trial for goal will be given by lining up three backs of the defending team within the
4-foot line and giving three forwards of the opposing team the ball on the 15-foot line, when
they may try for a goal until a goal is scored or the ball goes outside the 15-foot line. Only
three men from each side will be allowed within the 15-foot line, until the ball goes outside
that line or a goal is scored.

FOULS.--It shall be foul to tackle an opponent if the ball is not within four feet of him or
to hold him by any part of his costume. It shall be a foul to cross the 4-foot line ahead of
the ball, unless forced over by an opponent, or to hang on to the sides of the tank except
for the purpose of resting.

Unnecessary rough work may, within the discrimination of the referee, either be counted a foul
or the referee may put the offender out of the tank until a goal is scored or the half ends.

