comes glidingly to our side, and having heard our wish breathed whisperingly into her ear--a
rare feature when small, thin, and delicate as a leaf--just as glidingly she goes, in stature
that is almost stateliness, towards her Harp, and assuming at once a posture that would have
charmed Canova, after a few prelusive touches that betray the hand of a mistress in the divine
art, to the enchantment of the white motions of those graceful arms and fingers fine, awakes
a spirit in the strings accordant to the spirit in that voice worthy to have blended with St
Cecilia's in her hymning orisons. A Hebrew melody! And now your heart feels the utter mournfulness
of these words,

    "By Babel's streams we sat and wept!"

How sudden, yet how unviolent, the transitions among all our feelings! Under no other power
so swift and so soft as that of Music. The soul that sincerely loves Music, offers at no time
the slightest resistance to her sway, but yields itself up entirely to all its moods and measures,
led captive by each successive strain through the whole mysterious world of modulated air.
Not a smile over all that hush. Entranced in listening, they are all still as images. A sigh--almost
a sob--is heard, and there is shedding of tears. The sweet singer's self seems as if she felt
all alone at some solitary shrine--

    "Her face, oh! call it fair, not pale!"

Yet pale now it is, as if her heart almost died within her at the pathos of her own beautiful
lament in a foreign land, and lovelier in her captivity never was the fairest of the daughters
of Zion!

How it howls! That was a very avalanche. The snow-winds preach charity to all who have roofs
overhead--towards the houseless and them who huddle round hearths where the fire is dying or
dead. Those blankets must have been a God-send indeed to not a few families, and your plan
is preferable to a Fancy-Fair. Yet that is good too--nor do we find fault with them who dance
for the Destitute. We sanction amusements that give relief to misery--and the wealthy may waltz
unblamed for behoof of the poor.

Again, what a howling in the chimney! What a blattering on the windows, and what a cannonading
on the battlements! What can the night be about? and what has put old Nox into such a most
outrageous passion? He has driven our Winter Rhapsody clean out of our noddle--and to-morrow
we must be sending for the slater, the plumber, and the glazier. To go to bed in such a hurly-burly,
would be to make an Ultra-Toryish acknowledgment, not only of the divine right, but of the
divine power of King Morpheus. But an Ultra-Tory we are not--though Ultra-Trimmers try to impose
upon themselves that fiction among a thousand others; so we shall smoke a cigar, and let sleep
go to the dogs, the deuce, the devil, and the Chartists.

STROLL TO GRASSMERE.

FIRST SAUNTER.

Companion of the Crutch! hast thou been a loving observer of the weather of our island-clime?
We do not mean to ask if you have from youth been in the daily practice of rising from your
study-chair at regular intervals, and ascertaining the precise point of Mercury's elevation
on the barometrical scale. The idea of trusting, throughout all the fluctuations of the changeful
and capricious atmosphere in which we live, to quicksilver, is indeed preposterous; and we
have long noticed that meteorologists make an early figure in our obituaries. Seeing the head
of the god above the mark "fair," or "settled," out they march in thins, without great-coat
or umbrella, when such a thunder-plump falls down in a deluge, that, returning home by water
and steam, they take to bed, and on the ninth day fever hurries them off, victims to their
confidence in that treacherous tube. But we mean to ask have you an eye, an ear, and a sixth
sense, anonymous and instinctive, for all the prognosticating sights and sounds, and motions
and shapes, of nature? Have you studied, in silence and solitude, the low, strange, and spirit-like
whisperings, that often, when bird and bee are mute, come and go, here and there, now from
crag, now from coppice, and now from moor, all over the sultry stillness of the clouded landscape?
Have you listened among mountains to the voice of streams, till you heard them prophesying
change? Have you so mastered the occult science of mists, as that you can foretell each proud
or fair Emergency, and the hour when grove, precipice, or plain, shall in sudden revelation
be clothed with the pomp of sunshine? Are all Bewick's birds, and beasts, and fishes visible
to your eyes in the woods, wastes, and waves of the clouds? And know ye what aerial condor,
dragon, and whale, respectively portend? Are the Fata Morgana as familiar to you as the Aberdeen
Almanac? When a mile-square hover of crows darkens air and earth, or settling loads every tree
with sable fruitage, are you your own augur, equally as when one raven lifts up his hoary blackness
from a stone, and sails sullenly off with a croak, that gets fiercer and more savage in the
lofty distance? Does the leaf of the forest twinkle futurity? the lonely lichen brighten or
pale its lustre with change? Does not the gift of prophecy dwell with the family of the violets
and the lilies? The prescient harebells, do they not let drop their closing blossoms when the
heavens are niggard of their dews, or uphold them like cups thirsty for wine, when the blessing,
yet unfelt by duller animal life, is beginning to drop balmily down from the rainy cloud embosomed
in the blue of a midsummer's meridian day?

Forgive these friendly interrogatories. Perhaps you are weather-wiser than ourselves; yet for
not a few years we bore the name of "The Man of the Mountains;" and, though no great linguists,
we hope that we know somewhat more than the vocabulary of the languages of calm and storm.
Remember that we are now at Ambleside--and one week's residence there may let you into some
of the secrets of the unsteady Cabinet of St Cloud.

One advice we give you, and by following it you cannot fail to be happy at Ambleside, and everywhere
else. Whatever the weather be, love, admire, and delight in it, and vow that you would not
change it for the atmosphere of a dream. If it be close, hot, oppressive, be thankful for the
faint air that comes down fitfully from cliff and chasm, or the breeze that ever and anon gushes
from stream and lake. If the heavens are filled with sunshine, and you feel the vanity of parasols,
how cool the sylvan shade for ever moistened by the murmurs of that fairy waterfall! Should
it blow great guns, cannot you take shelter in yonder magnificent fort, whose hanging battlements
are warded even from the thunder-bolt by the dense umbrage of unviolated woods? Rain--rain--rain--an
even-down pour of rain, that forces upon you visions of Noah and his ark, and the top of Mount
Ararat--still, we beseech you, be happy. It cannot last long at that rate; the thing is impossible.
Even this very afternoon will the rainbow span the blue entrance into Rydal's woody vale, as
if to hail the westering sun on his approach to the mountains--and a hundred hill-born torrents
will be seen flashing out of the upfolding mists. What a delightful dazzle on the light-stricken
river! Each meadow shames the lustre of the emerald; and the soul wishes not for language to
speak the pomp and prodigality of colours that Heaven now rejoices to lavish on the grove-girdled
Fairfield, who has just tossed off the clouds from his rocky crest.

You will not imagine, from anything we have ever said, that we are enemies to early rising.
Now and then, what purer bliss than to embrace the new-wakened Morn, just as she is rising
from her dewy bed! At such hour, we feel as if there were neither physical nor moral evil in
the world. The united power of peace, innocence, and beauty subdues everything to itself, and
life is love.

Forgive us, loveliest of Mornings! for having overslept the assignation hour, and allowed thee
to remain all by thyself in the solitude, wondering why thy worshipper could prefer to thy
presence the fairest phantoms that ever visited a dream. And thou hast forgiven us--for not
clouds of displeasure these that have settled on thy forehead: the unreproaching light of thy
countenance is upon us--a loving murmur steals into our heart from thine--and pure as a child's,
daughter of Heaven! is thy breath.

In the spirit of that invocation we look around us, and as the idea of morning dies, sufficient
for our happiness is "the light of common day"--the imagery of common earth. There has been
rain during the night--enough, and no more, to enliven nature--the mists are ascending composedly
with promise of gentle weather--and the sun, so mild that we can look him in the face with
unwinking eyes, gives assurance that as he has risen so will he reign, and so will he set in peace.

Yet we cannot help thinking it somewhat remarkable, that, to the best of our memory, never
once were we the very first out into the dawn. We say nothing of birds--for they, with their
sweet jargoning, anticipate it, and from their bed on the bough feel the forerunning warmth
of the sunrise; neither do we allude to hares, for they are "hirpling hame," to sleep away
the light hours, open-eyed, in the briery quarry in the centre of the trackless wood. Even
cows and horses we can excuse being up before us, for they have bivouacked; and the latter,
as they often sleep standing, are naturally somnambulists. Weasels, too, we can pardon for
running across the road before us, and as they reach the hole-in-the-wall, showing by their
clear eyes that they have been awake for hours, and have probably breakfasted on leveret. We
have no spite at chanticleer, nor the hooting owls against whom he is so lustily crowing hours
before the orient; nor do we care although we know that is not the first sudden plunge of the
tyrant trout into the insect cloud already hovering over the tarn. But we confess that it is
a little mortifying to our pride of time and place, to meet an old beggar-woman, who from the
dust on her tattered brogues has evidently marched miles from her last night's wayside howf,
and who holds out her withered palm for charity, at an hour when a cripple of fourscore might
have been supposed sleeping on her pallet of straw. A pedlar, too, who has got through a portion
of the Excursion before the sun has illumed the mountain-tops, is mortifying, with his piled
pack and ellwand. There, as we are a Christian, is Ned Hurd, landing a pike on the margin of
the Reed-pool, on his way from Hayswater, where he has been all night angling, till his creel
is as heavy as a sermon; and a little further on, comes issuing like a Dryad's daughter, from
the gate in the lane, sweet little Alice Elleray, with a basket dangling beneath her arm, going
in her orphan beauty to gather, in their season, wild strawberries or violets in the woods.

Sweet orphan of Wood-edge! what would many a childless pair give for a creature one-half so
beautiful as thou, to break the stillness of a home that wants but one blessing to make it
perfectly happy! Yet there are few or none to lay a hand on that golden head, or leave a kiss
upon its ringlets. The father of Alice Elleray was a wild and reckless youth, and, going to
the wars, died in a foreign land. Her mother soon faded away of a broken heart;--and who was
to care for the orphan child of the forgotten friendless? An old pauper who lives in that hut,
scarcely distinguishable from the shielings of the charcoal-burners, was glad to take her from
the parish for a weekly mite that helps to eke out her own subsistence. For two or three years
the child was felt a burden by the solitary widow; but ere she had reached her fifth summer,
Alice Elleray never left the hut without darkness seeming to overshadow it--never entered the
door without bringing the sunshine. Where can the small, lonely creature have heard so many
tunes, and airs, and snatches of old songs--as if some fairy bird had taught her melodies of
fairyland? She is now in her tenth year, nor an idler in her solitude. Do you wish for a flowery
bracelet for the neck of a chosen one, whose perfumes may mingle with the bosom-balm of her
virgin beauty? The orphan of Wood-edge will wreath it of blossoms cropt before the sun hath
melted the dew on leaf or petal. Will you be for carrying away with you to the far-off city
some pretty little sylvan toy, to remind you of Ambleside and Rydal, and other beautiful names
of beautiful localities near the lucid waters of Windermere? Then, Lady! purchase, at little
cost, from the fair basket-maker, an ornament for your parlour, that will not disgrace its
fanciful furniture, and, as you sit at your dreamy needlework, will recall the green forest
glades of Brathy or Calgarth. Industrious creature! each day is to thee, in thy simplicity,
an entire life. All thoughts, all feelings, arise and die in peace between sunrise and sunset.
What carest thou for being an orphan! knowing, as thou well dost, that God is thy father and
thy mother, and that a prayer to Him brings health, food, and sleep to the innocent.

Letting drop a curtsy, taught by Nature, the mother of the Graces, Alice Elleray, the orphan
of Wood-edge, without waiting to be twice bidden, trills, as if from a silver pipe, a wild,
bird-like warble, that in its cheerfulness has now and then a melancholy fall, and, at the
close of the song, hers are the only eyes that are not dimmed with the haze of tears. Then
away she glides with a thankful smile, and dancing over the greensward, like an uncertain sunbeam,
lays the treasure, won by her beauty, her skill, and her industry, on the lap of her old guardian,
who blesses her with the uplifting of withered hands.

Meanwhile, we request you to walk away with us up to Stockgill-force. There has been a new
series of dry weather, to be sure; but to our liking, a waterfall is best in a rainless summer.
After a flood, the noise is beyond all endurance. You get stunned and stupified till your head
splits. Then you may open your mouth like a barn-door--we are speaking to you, sir--and roar
into a friend's ear all in vain a remark on the cataract. To him you are a dumb man. In two
minutes you are as completely drenched in spray as if you had fallen out of a boat--and descend
to dinner with a toothache that keeps you in starvation in the presence of provender sufficient
for a whole bench of bishops. In dry weather, on the contrary, the waterfall is in moderation;
and instead of tumbling over the cliff in a perpetual peal of thunder, why, it slides and slidders
merrily and musically away down the green shelving rocks, and sinks into repose in many a dim
or lucid pool, amidst whose foam-bells is playing or asleep the fearless Naiad. Deuce a headache
have you--speak in a whisper, and not a syllable of your excellent observation is lost; your
coat is dry, except that a few dewdrops have been shook over you from the branches stirred
by the sudden wing-clap of the cushat--and as for toothache interfering with dinner, you eat
as if your tusks had been just sharpened, and would not scruple to discuss nuts, upper-and-lower-jaw-work
fashion, against the best crackers in the county. And all this comes of looking at Stockgill-force,
or any other waterfall, in dry weather, after a few refreshing and fertilising showers that
make the tributary rills to murmur, and set at work a thousand additional feeders to every Lake.

Ha! Matutine Roses!--budding, half-blown, consummate--you are, indeed, in irresistible blush!
We shall not say which of you we love best--she knows it; but we see there is no hope to-day
for the old man--for you are all paired--and he must trudge it solus, in capacity of Guide-General
of the Forces. What! the nymphs are going to pony it? And you intend, you selfish fellows,
that we shall hold all the reins whenever the spirit moveth you to deviate from bridle-path,
to clamber cliff for a bird's-eye view, or dive into dells for some rare plant? Well, well--there
is a tradition, that once we were young ourselves; and so redolent of youth are these hills,
that we are more than half inclined to believe it--so blush and titter, and laugh and look
down, ye innocent wicked ones, each with her squire by her palfrey's mane, while good old Christopher,
like a true guide, keeps hobbling in the rear on his Crutch. Holla there!--to the right of
our friend Mr Benson's smithy--and to Rothay-bridge. Turn in at a gate to the right hand, which,
twenty to one, you will find open, that the cattle may take an occasional promenade along the
turnpike, and cool their palates with a little ditch grass, and saunter along by Millar-bridge
and Foxgill on to Pelter-bridge, and, if you please, to Rydal-mere. Thus, and thus only, is
seen the vale of Ambleside; and what a vale of grove, and glade, and stream, and cliff, and
cottage, and villa, and grassfield, and garden, and orchard, and--But not another word, for
you would forthwith compare our description with the reality, and seeing it faint and feeble,
would toss it into the Rothay, and laugh as the Vol. plumped over a waterfall!

The sylvan--or say rather the forest scenery--(for there is to us an indescribable difference
between these two words)--of Rydal-park, was, in memory of living men, magnificent, and it
still contains a treasure of old trees. Lady Diana's white pea-fowl, sitting on the limbs of
that huge old tree like creatures newly alighted from the Isles of Paradise! all undisturbed
by the waterfalls, which, as you keep gazing on the long-depending plumage illumining the forest
gloom, seem indeed to lose their sound, and to partake the peace of that resplendent show--each
splendour a wondrous Bird! For they stretch themselves all up, with their graceful crests,
o'ercanopied by the umbrage draperied as from a throne. And never surely were seen in this
daylight world such unterrestrial creatures--though come from afar, all happy as at home in
the Fairies' Oak.

By all means ride away into these woods, and lose yourself for half an hour among the cooing
of cushats, and the shrill shriek of startled blackbirds, and the rustle of the harmless slow-worm
among the last year's red beech-leaves. No very great harm in a kiss under the shadow of an
oak (oh fie!) while the magpie chatters angrily at safe distance, and the more innocent squirrel
peeps down upon you from a bough of the canopy, and, hoisting his tail, glides into the obscurity
of the loftiest umbrage. You still continue to see and hear; but the sight is a glimmer, and
the sound a hum, as if the forest-glade were swarming with bees, from the ground-flowers to
the herons' nests. Refreshed by your dream of Dryads, follow a lonesome din that issues from
a pile of wooded cliffs, and you are led to a Waterfall. Five minutes are enough for taking
an impression, if your mind be of the right material, and you carry it away with you further
down the Forest. Such a torrent will not reach the lake without disporting itself into many
little cataracts; and saw ye ever such a fairy one as that flowing through below an ivied bridge
into a circular basin overshadowed by the uncertain twilight of many checkering branches, and
washing the rook-base of a Hermitage, in which a sin-sickened or pleasure-palled man might,
before his hairs were grey, forget all the gratifications and all the guilt of the noisy world?

You are now all standing together in a group beside Ivy-cottage, the river gliding below its
wooden bridge from Rydal-mere. It is a perfect model of such architecture--breathing the very
spirit of Westmoreland. The public road, skirted by its front paling, does not in the least
degree injure its character of privacy and retirement; so we think at this dewy hour of prime,
when the gossamer meets our faces, extended from the honey-suckled slate-porch to the trees
on the other side of the turnpike. And see how the multitude of low-hanging roofs and gable-ends,
and dovecot-looking windows, steal away up a green and shrubberied acclivity, and terminating
in wooded rocks that seem part of the building, in the uniting richness of ivy, lichens, moss-roses,
broom, and sweet-brier, murmuring with birds and bees, busy near hive and nest! It would be
extremely pleasant to breakfast in that deep-windowed room on the ground-floor, on cream and
barley cakes, eggs, coffee, and dry-toast, with a little mutton-ham not too severely salted,
and at the conclusion, a nut-shell of Glenlivet or Cognac. But, Lord preserve ye! it is not
yet six o'clock in the morning; and what Christian kettle simmereth before seven? Yes, my sweet
Harriet, that sketch does you credit, and it is far from being very unlike the original. Rather
too many chimneys by about half-a-dozen; and where did you find that steeple immediately over
the window marked "Dairy?" The pigs are somewhat too sumptuously lodged in that elegant sty,
and the hen-roost might accommodate a phoenix. But the features of the chief porch are very
happily hit off--you have caught the very attic spirit of the roof--and some of the windows
may be justly said to be staring likenesses.--Ivy-cottage is slipped into our portfolio, and
we shall compare it, on our return to Scotland, with Buchanan Lodge.

Gallantry forbids, but Truth demands to say, that young ladies are but indifferent sketchers.
The dear creatures have no notion of perspective. At flower-painting and embroidery, they are
pretty fair hands, but they make sad work among waterfalls and ruins. Notwithstanding, it is
pleasant to hang over them, seated on stone or stool, drawing from nature; and now and then
to help them in with a horse or a hermit. It is a difficult, almost an impossible thing--that
foreshortening. The most speculative genius is often at a loss to conjecture the species of
a human being foreshortened by a young lady. The hanging Tower at Pisa is, we believe, some
thirty feet or so off the perpendicular, and there is one at Caerphilly about seventeen; but
these are nothing to the castles in the air we have seen built by the touch of a female magician;
nor is it an unusual thing with artists of the fair sex to order their plumed chivalry to gallop
down precipices considerably steeper than a house, on animals apparently produced between the
tiger and the bonassus. When they have succeeded in getting something like the appearance of
water between what may be conjectured banks, they are not very particular about its running
occasionally up-hill; and it is interesting to see a stream stealing quietly below trees in
gradual ascension, till, disappearing for a few minutes over one summit, it comes thundering
down another, in the shape of a waterfall, on the head of an elderly gentleman, unsuspectingly
reading Mr Wordsworth's "Excursion," perhaps, in the foreground. Nevertheless, we repeat, that
it is delightful to hang over one of the dear creatures, seated on stone or stool, drawing
from nature; for whatever may be the pencil's skill, the eye may behold the glimpse of a vision
whose beauty shall be remembered when even Windermere herself has for a while faded into oblivion.

On such excursions there are sure to occur a few enviable adventures. First, the girths get
wrong, and, without allowing your beloved virgin to alight, you spend more time than is absolutely
necessary in arranging them; nor can you help admiring the attitude into which the graceful
creature is forced to draw up her delicate limbs, that her fairy feet may not be in the way
to impede your services. By-and-by a calf--which you hope will be allowed to grow up into a
cow--stretching up her curved red back from behind a wall, startles John Darby, albeit unused
to the starting mood, and you leap four yards to the timely assistance of the fair shrieker,
tenderly pressing her bridle-hand as you find the rein that has not been lost, and wonder what
has become of the whip that never existed. A little further on, a bridgeless stream crosses
the road--a dangerous-looking ford indeed--a foot deep at the very least, and scorning wet
feet, as they ought to be scorned, you almost carry, serene in danger, your affianced bride
(or she is in a fair way of becoming so) in your arms off the saddle, nor relinquish the delightful
clasp till all risk is at an end, some hundred yards on, along the velvet herbage. Next stream
you come to has indeed a bridge--but then what a bridge! A long, coggly, cracked slate-stone,
whose unsteady clatter would make the soberest steed jump over the moon. You beseech the timid
girl to sit fast, and she almost leans down to your breast as you press to meet the blessed
burden, and to prevent the steady old stager from leaping over the battlements. But now the
chasm on each side of the narrow path is so tremendous, that she must dismount, after due disentanglement,
from that awkward, old-fashioned crutch and pummel, and from a stirrup, into which a little
foot, when it has once crept like a mouse, finds itself caught as in a trap of singular construction,
and difficult to open for releasement. You feel that all you love in the world is indeed fully,
freshly, and warmly in your arms, nor can you bear to set the treasure down on the rough stony
road, but look round, and round, and round, for a soft spot, which you finally prophesy at
some distance up the hill, whitherwards, in spite of pouting Yea and Nay, you persist in carrying
her whose head is ere long to lie in your tranquil bosom.

Ivy-cottage, you see, is the domicile of gentlemen and lady folk; but look through yonder dispersion,
and in a minute or two your eyes will see distinctly, in spite of the trees, a bonâ fide farmhouse,
inhabited by a family whose head is at once an agriculturist, a shepherd, and a woodsman. A
Westmoreland cottage has scarcely any resemblance to a Scottish one. A Scottish cottage (in
the Lowlands) has rarely any picturesque beauty in itself--a narrow oblong, with steep thatched
roof, and an ear-like chimney at each of the two gable-ends. Many of the Westmoreland cottages
would seem, to an ignorant observer, to have been originally built on a model conceived by
the finest poetical genius. In the first place, they are almost always built precisely where
they ought to be, had the builder's prime object been to beautify the dale; at least, so we
have often felt in moods, when perhaps our emotions were unconsciously soothed into complacency
by the spirit of the scene. Where the sedgy brink of the lake or tarn circles into a lone bay,
with a low hill of coppice-wood on one side, and a few tall pines on the other, no--it is a
grove of sycamores--there, about a hundred yards from the water, and about ten above its ordinary
level, peeps out from its cheerful seclusion that prettiest of all hamlets--Braithwaite-fold.
The hill behind is scarcely sylvan--yet it has many hazels--a few bushes--here and there a
holly--and why or wherefore, who can now tell, a grove of enormous yews. There is sweet pasturage
among the rocks, and as you may suppose it a spring-day, mild without much sunshine, there
is a bleating of lambs, a twitter of small birds, and the deep coo of the stock-dove. A wreath
of smoke is always a feature of such a scene in description; but here there is now none, for
probably the whole household are at work in the open air, and the fire, since fuel is not to
be wasted, has been wisely suffered to expire on the hearth. No. There is a volume of smoke,
as if the chimney were in flame--a tumultuous cloud pours aloft, straggling and broken, through
the broad slate stones that defend the mouth of the vomitory from every blast. The matron within
is doubtless about to prepare breakfast, and last year's rotten pea-sticks have soon heated
the capacious grid-iron. Let the smoke-wreath melt away at its leisure, and do you admire,
along with us, the infinite variety of all those little shelving and sloping roofs. To feel
the full force of the peculiar beauty of these antique tenements, you must understand their
domestic economy. If ignorant of that, you can have no conception of the meaning of any one
thing you see--roofs, eaves, chimneys, beams, props, doors, hovels, and sheds, and hanging
staircase, being all huddled together, as you think, in unintelligible confusion; whereas they
are all precisely what and where they ought to be, and have had their colours painted, forms
shaped, and places allotted by wind and weather, and the perpetually but pleasantly felt necessities
Of the natural condition of mountaineers.

Dear, dear is the thatch to the eyes of a son of Caledonia, for he may remember the house in
which he was born; but what thatch was ever so beautiful as that slate from the quarry of the
White-moss? Each one--no--not each one--but almost each one--of these little overhanging roofs
seems to have been slated, or repaired at least, in its own separate season, so various is
the lustre of lichens that bathes the whole, as richly as ever rock was bathed fronting the
sun on the mountain's brow. Here and there is seen some small window, before unobserved, curtained
perhaps--for the statesman, and the statesman's wife, and the statesman's daughters, have a
taste--a taste inspired by domestic happiness, which, seeking simply comfort, unconsciously
creates beauty, and whatever its homely hand touches, that it adorns. There would seem to be
many fireplaces in Braithwaite-fold, from such a number of chimney-pillars, each rising up
to a different altitude from a different base, round as the bole of a tree--and elegant, as
if shaped by Vitruvius. To us, we confess, there is nothing offensive in the most glaring white
rough-cast that ever changed a cottage into a patch of sunny snow. Yet here that greyish-tempered
unobtrusive hue does certainly blend to perfection with roof, rock, and sky. Every instrument
is in tune. Not even in sylvan glade, nor among the mountain rocks, did wanderer's eyes ever
behold a porch of meeting tree-stems, or reclining cliffs, more gracefully festooned than the
porch from which now issues one of the fairest of Westmeria's daughters. With one arm crossed
before her eyes in a sudden burst of sunshine, with the other Ellinor Inman waves to her little
brother and sisters among the bark-peelers in the Rydal woods. The graceful signal is repeated
till seen, and in a few minutes a boat steals twinkling from the opposite side of the lake,
each tug of the youthful rowers distinctly heard through the hollow of the vale. A singing
voice rises and ceases--as if the singer were watching the echo--and is not now the picture
complete?

