The Queen's greatest solace this year was in long days spent on the purple mountains and by
the sides of the brown lochs, and in a second private expedition, like that of the previous
year to Grantown, when she slept a night at the Ramsay Arms in the village of Fettercairn,
and Prince Louis and General Grey were consigned to the Temperance Hotel opposite. The whole
party walked out in the moonlight and were startled by a village band. The return was by Blair,
where the Queen was welcomed by her former host and hostess, the Duke and Duchess of Athole.
Her Majesty had a look at her earlier quarters, at the room in which the little Princess Royal
had been put to bed in two chairs, and saw Sandy Macara, grown old and grey.

After an excursion to Cairn Glaishie, her Majesty recorded in her journal, "Alas! I fear our
last great one." Six years afterwards the sorrowful confirmation was given to words which had
been written with a very different meaning, "It was our last one."

The Prince of Wales was on a visit to Germany, ostensibly to witness the manoeuvres of the
Prussian army, but with a more delicate mission behind. He was bound, while not yet twenty,
to make the acquaintance of the Princess Alexandra of Denmark, not quite seventeen, with the
probability of their future marriage--a prospect which, to the great regret of the Prince Consort,
got almost immediately into the newspapers. The first meetings of the young couple took place
at Speyer and Heidelberg, and were altogether promising of the mutual attachment which was
the desired result.

On the 18th of October the King of Prussia was crowned at Koenisburg--a splendid ceremonial,
in which the Princess Royal naturally, as the Crown Princess, bore a prominent part.

On the return of the Court to Windsor, Prince Leopold, then between eight and nine years of
age, was sent, with a temporary household, to spend the winter in the south of France for the
sake of his health.

Suddenly a great and painful shock was given to the Queen and the Prince by the news of the
disastrous outbreak of typhoid fever in Portugal among their royal cousins and intimate friends,
the sons of Maria de Gloria. When the tidings arrived King Pedro's brother, Prince Ferdinand,
was already dead, and the King ill. Two more brothers, the Duke of Oporto and the Duke of Beja,
were in England, on their way home from the King of Prussia's coronation. The following day
still sadder news arrived--the recovery of the young king, not more than twenty-five, was despaired
of. His two brothers started immediately for Lisbon, but were too late to see him in life.
The younger, the Duke of Beja, was also seized with the fatal fever and died in the course
of the following month. The Queen and the Prince lamented the King deeply, finding the only
consolation in the fact that he had rejoined the gentle girl-wife for whose loss he had been
inconsolable.

CHAPTER XXXV.

THE DEATH OF THE PRINCE CONSORT.

The news of the terrible mortality in the Portuguese royal family, especially the death of
the King, to whom the Prince was warmly attached, had seriously affected his health, never
strong, and for the last few years gradually declining, with gastric attacks becoming more
frequent and fits of sleeplessness more confirmed. At the same time the Prince's spirit was
so unbroken, his power of work and even of enjoyment so unshaken, while the patience and unselfishness
which treated his own bodily discomfort as a matter of little moment had grown so much the
habit of his mind, that naturally those nearest to him failed in their very love to see the
extent of the physical mischief which was at work. Nevertheless there is abundant evidence
that the Queen was never without anxiety on her husband's account, and Baron Stockmar expressed
his apprehensions more than once.

Various causes of care troubled the Prince, among them the indisposition contracted by the
Princess Royal at the coronation of her father-in-law, the King of Prussia, and the alarming
illness at Cannes of Sir Edward Bowater, who had been sent to the south of France in charge
of Prince Leopold. After a fortnight of sleeplessness, rheumatic pains, loss, of appetite,
and increasing weakness, the Prince drove in close wet weather to inspect the building of the
new Military Academy at Sandhurst, and it is believed that he there contracted the germs of
fever. But he shot with the guests at the Castle, walked with the Queen to Frogmore and inspected
the mausoleum there, and visited the Prince of Wales at Cambridge afterwards.

Then the affair of the Trent suddenly demanded the Prince's close attention and earnest efforts
to prevent a threatened war between England and America. In the course of the civil war raging
between the Northern and Southern states the English steamer Trent sailed with the English
mails from Savannah to England, having on board among the other passengers several American
gentlemen, notably Messrs. Mason and Slidell, who had run the blockade from Charlestown to
Cuba, and were proceeding to Europe as envoys sent by the Confederates to the Courts of England
and France. A federal vessel fired on the English steamer, compelling her to stop, when the
American Captain Wilkes, at the head of a large body of marines, demanded the surrender of
Mason and Slidell, with their companions. In the middle of the remonstrances of the English
Government agent at the insult to his flag and to the neutral port from which the ship had
sailed, the objects of the officer's search came forward and surrendered themselves, thus delivering
the English commander from his difficulty.

But the feeling in England was very strong against the outrage which had been committed, and
it was only the most moderate of any political party who were willing to believe--either that
the American Government might not be cognisant of the act done in its name, or that it might
be willing to atone by honourable means for a violation of international law--enough to provoke
the withdrawal of the English ambassador from Washington, and a declaration of war between
the two countries.

Cabinet councils were summoned and a dispatch prepared. A draft of the dispatch was forwarded
to Windsor to be read by the Queen, when it struck both her and, the Prince that it was less
temperate and conciliatory than it might have been, while still consistent with perfect dignity.
The Prince Consort's last public work for his Queen and country was to amend this draft. He
rose as usual at seven o'clock, and faint and ill as he was, scarcely able to hold a pen, drew
out an improved version of the dispatch, which was highly approved of by the Ministers and
favourably received by the American Government. As the world knows, the President, in the name
of his countrymen, declared that Captain Wilkes had acted without official instructions, and
ordered the release of the gentlemen who had been taken prisoners.

In the meantime the shadows were darkening round the royal home which had been so supremely
blest. The Prince was worse. Still he walked out on one of the terraces, and wrapped in a coat
lined with fur he witnessed a review of the Eton College volunteers, from which his absence
would have been remarked. The ill-omened chilly feeling continued, but there were guests at
the Castle and he appeared at dinner. On Sunday, the 1st of December, the Prince walked out
again on the terrace and attended service in the chapel, insisting "on going through all the
kneeling," though very unwell.

Next morning something was said by the doctors of low fever. No wonder the Queen was distressed
after the recent calamity at Lisbon, but concealing her feelings as such watchers must, she
strove to soothe and amuse her sick husband. The members of the household who had been at Lisbon
arrived with the particulars of the young King of Portugal's death. After listening to them
the Prince said "that it was well his illness was not fever, as that, he felt sure, would be
fatal to him."

One of the guests at the Castle was Lord Palmerston. In spite of his natural buoyancy of temperament
he became so much alarmed by what he heard that he suggested another physician should be called
in. Her Majesty had not been prepared for this step, and when she appealed to the two medical
men in attendance, Sir James Clark and Dr. Jenner, they comforted her by their opinion that
there was nothing to alarm her, and that the low fever which had been feared might pass off.

The next few days were spent in alternations of hope and fear. Which of us is so happy as not
to have known that desperate faith when to doubt would be to despair? The Prince liked to be
read to, but "no book suited him." The readers were the Queen and Princess Alice, who sought
to cheat themselves by substituting Trollope for George Eliot, and Lever for Trollop, and by
speaking confidently of trying Sir Walter Scott "to-morrow." To-morrow brought no improvement.
Sir James Clark, though still sanguine, began to drop words which were not without their significance.
He hoped there would be no fever, which all dreaded, with too sure a presentiment of what would
follow. The Prince must eat, and he was to be told so; his illness was likely to be tedious,
and completely starving himself would not do.

As if the whole atmosphere was heavy with sorrow, and all the tidings which came from the world
without in these days only reflected the ache of the hearts within, the news came from Calcutta
of the death of the wife of the Governor-General, beautiful, gifted Lady Canning, so long the
Queen's lady-in-waiting and close companion.

The doctors began to sit up with the patient, another stage of the terrible illness. When her
Majesty came to the Prince at eight in the morning she found him sitting up in his dressing-room,
and was struck with "a strange wild look" which he had, while he talked in a baffled way, unlike
him, of what his illness could be, and how long it might last. But that day there was a rally;
he ate and slept a little, rested, and liked to be read to by Princess Alice. He was quite
himself again when the Queen came in with his little pet child, Princess Beatrice, in whom
he had taken such delight. He kissed her, held her hand, laughed at her new French verses,
and "dozed off," as if he only wanted sleep to restore him.

The doctor in attendance was anxious that the Prince should undress and go to bed, but this
he would not do. Throughout the attack, with his old habit of not giving way and of mastering
his bodily feelings by sheer force of will, he had resisted yielding to his weakness and submitting
to the ordinary routine of a sick-room. After it was too late the doctor's compliance with
the Prince's wishes in this respect was viewed by the public as rash and unwise. On this particular
occasion he walked to his dressing-room and lay down there, saying he would have a good night--an
expectation doomed to disappointment. His restlessness not only kept him from sleeping, it
caused him to change his room more than once during the night.

The morning found him up and seated in his sitting-room as before. But he was worse, and talked
with a certain incoherence when he told the Queen that he had been listening to the little
birds, and they had reminded him of those he had heard at the Rosenau in his childhood. She
felt a quick recoil, and when the doctors showed that their favourable opinion of the day before
had undergone a change, she went to her room and it seemed to her as if her heart would break.

Fever had now declared itself unmistakably. The fact was gently broken to the Queen, and she
was warned that the illness must run its course, while the knowledge of its nature was to be
kept from the Prince. She called to mind every thought that could give her courage; and Princess
Alice, her father's true daughter, capable of rising to heights of duty and tenderness the
moment she was put to the test, grew brave in her loving demotion, and already afforded the
support which the husband and father was no longer fit to give.

Happily for her Majesty, the daily duties of her position as a sovereign, which she could not
lay aside though they were no longer shared by the friend of more than twenty years, still
occupied a considerable portion of her time. But she wrote in her diary that in fulfilling
her task she seemed to live "in a dreadful dream." Do we not also know, many of us, this cruel
double life in which the obligations which belong to our circumstances and to old habits contend
for mastery with new misery? When she was not thus engaged the Queen sat by her husband, weeping
when she could do so unseen.

On the 8th of December the Prince appeared to be going on well, though the desire for change
continued strong in him, and he was removed at his earnest request to larger and brighter rooms,
adjoining those he had hitherto occupied. According to Lady Bloomfield one of the rooms-- certainly
called "the Kings' rooms"--into which the Prince was carried, was that in which both William
IV. and George IV. had died; and the fact was remembered and referred to by the new tenant,
when he was placed where he too was destined to die. The Queen had only once slept there, when
her own rooms were being painted, and as it happened, that single occasion was on the night
before the day when the Duchess of Kent had her last fatal seizure.

The Prince was pleased with the greater space and light and with the winter sunshine. For the
first time since his illness he asked for music, "a fine chorale." A piano was brought into
the room, and his daughter played two hymns--one of them "Ein fester burg ist unser Gott" to
which he listened with tears in his eyes.

It was Sunday, and Charles Kingsley preached at the Castle. The Queen was present, but she
noted sadly that she did not hear a word.

The serious illness of the Prince Consort had become known and excited much alarm, especially
among the Cabinet Ministers. They united in urging that fresh medical aid should be procured.
Dr. Watson and Sir Henry Holland were called in. These gentlemen concurred with the other doctors
in their opinion of the case as grave, but not presenting any very bad symptoms. The increased
tendency of the Prince to wander in his mind was only what was to be expected. The listlessness
and irritability characteristic of the disease gave way to pleasure at seeing the Queen and
having her with him, to tender caresses, such as stroking her cheek, and simple loving words,
fondly cherished, "Liebes frauchen, gutes weibchen." [Footnote: "Dear little wife, good little
wife."] The changes rung on the relationship which had been so perfect and so satisfying.

On the 10th and the 11th the Prince was considered better. He was wheeled into the next room,
when he called attention to a picture of the Madonna of which he was fond; he said that the
sight of it helped him through half the day.

On the evening of the 11th a slight change in the Prince's breathing was perceptible and occasioned
uneasiness. On the 12th it was too evident the fever and shortness of breathing had increased,
and on the 13th Dr. Jenner had to tell the Queen the symptom was serious, and that there was
a probability of congestion of the lungs. When the sick man was wheeled into the next room
as before, he failed to notice his favourite picture, and in place of asking to be placed with
his back to the light as he had hitherto done, sat with his hands clasped, gazing abstractedly
out of the window. That night the Prince of Wales was summoned from Cambridge, it was said
by his sister, Princess Alice, who took upon her the responsibility of bringing him to Windsor.

All through the night at hourly intervals reports were brought to the Queen that the Prince
was doing well. At six in the morning Mr. Brown, the Windsor medical attendant of the family
for upwards of twenty years, who was believed to be well acquainted with the Prince's constitution,
came to the Queen with the glad tidings "that he had no hesitation in saying he thought the
Prince was much better, and that there was ground to hope the crisis was over." There are few
experiences more piteous than that last flash of life in the socket which throws a parting
gleam of hope on the approaching darkness of death.

When the Queen entered the sick-room at seven o'clock on a fine winter morning, she was struck
with the unearthly beauty--another not unfamiliar sign--of the face on which the rising sun
shone. The eyes unusually bright, gazing as it were on an unseen object, took no notice of
her entrance.

The doctors allowed they were "very, very anxious," but still they would not give up hope.
The Queen asked if she might go out for a breath of air, and received an answer with a reservation--"Yes,
just close by, for a quarter of an hour." She walked on one of the terraces with Princess Alice,
but they heard a military band playing in the distance, and at that sound, recalling such different
scenes, the poor Queen burst into tears, and returned to the Castle.

Sir James Clark said he had seen much worse cases from which there had been recovery. But both
the Queen and the doctors remarked the dusky hue stealing over the hands and face, and there
were acts which looked like strange involuntary preparations for departure--folding of the
arms, arranging of the hair, &c.

The Queen was in great distress, and remained constantly either in the sick-room or in the
apartment next to it, where the doctors tried still to speak words of hope to her, but could
no longer conceal that the life which was as her life was ebbing away. In the course of the
afternoon, when the Queen went up to the Prince, after he had been wheeled into the middle
of the room, he said the last loving words, "Gutes frauchen," [Footnote: "Good little wife."]
kissed her, and with a little moaning sigh laid his head on her shoulder. He dozed and wandered,
speaking French sometimes. All his children who were in the country came into the room, and
one after the other took his hand, Prince Arthur kissing it as he did so, but the Prince made
no sign of knowing them. He roused himself and asked for his private secretary, but again slept.
Three of the gentlemen of the household, who had been much about the Prince's person, came
up to him and kissed his hand without attracting his attention. All of them were overcome;
only she who sat in her place by his side was quiet and still.

So long as enough air passed through the labouring lungs, the doctors would not relinquish
the last grain of hope. Even when the Queen found the Prince bathed in the death-sweat, so
near do life and death still run, that the attendant medical men ventured to say it might be
an effort of nature to throw off the fever.

The Queen bent over the Prince and whispered "Es ist kleins Frauchen." He recognised the voice
and answered by bowing his head and kissing her. He was quite calm, only drowsy, and not caring
to be disturbed, as he had been wont to be when weary and ill.

The Queen had gone into the next room to weep there when Sir James Clark sent Princess Alice
to bring her back. The end had come. With his wife kneeling by his side and holding his hand,
his children kneeling around, the Queen's nephew, Prince Ernest Leiningen, the gentlemen of
the Prince's suite, General Bruce, General Grey, and Sir Charles Phipps, the Dean of Windsor,
and the Prince's favourite German valet, Lohlein, reverently watching the scene, the true husband
and tender father, the wise prince and liberal-hearted statesman, the noble Christian man,
gently breathed his last. It was a quarter to eleven o'clock on the 14th of December, 1861.
He was aged forty-two years.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE WITHDRAWAL TO OSBORNE--THE PRINCE CONSORT'S FUNERAL.

The tolling of the great bell of St. Paul's, borne on the wintry midnight air, thrilled many
a heart with grief and dismay, as London was roused to the melancholy fact of the terrible
bereavement which had befallen the Queen and the country.

To the Prince indeed death had come without terror, even without recoil. Some time before he
had told the Queen that he had not her clinging to life, that if he knew it was well with those
he cared for, he would be quite ready to die to-morrow. He was perfectly convinced of the future
reunion of those who had loved each other on earth, though he did not know under what circumstances
it would take place. During one of the happy Highland excursions in 1861, the Prince had remarked
to one of the keepers when talking over with him the choice and planting of a deer-forest for
the Prince of Wales, "You and I may be dead and gone before that." "He was ever cheerful, but
ever ready and prepared," was the Queen's comment on this remark.

But for the Queen, "a widow at forty-two!" was the lamenting cry of the nation which had been
so proud of its young Queen, of her love- match, of her happiness as a wife. Now a subtler
touch than any which had gone before won all hearts to her, and bowed them before her feet
in a very passion of love and loyalty. It was her share in the common birthright of sorrow,
with the knowledge that she in whose joy so many had rejoiced was now qualified by piteous
human experience to weep with those who wept--that thenceforth throughout her wide dominions
every mourner might feel that their Queen mourned with them as only a fellow-sufferer can mourn.
[Footnote: "The Queen wrote my mother, Lady Normanby, such a beautiful letter after Normanby's
death, saying that having drunk the dregs of her cup of grief herself, she knew how to sympathise
with others."--LADY BLOOMFIELD.] All hearts went out to her in the day of her bitter sorrow.
Prayers innumerable were put up for her, and she believed they sustained her when she would
otherwise have sunk under the heavy burden.

On the Sunday which dawned on the first day of her Majesty's widowhood, when the news of her
bereavement--announced in a similar fashion in many a city cathedral and country church, was
conveyed to the people in a great northern city by Dr. Norman MacLeod's praying for the Queen
as a widow, a pang of awe and pity smote every hearer; the minister and the congregation wept
together.

The disastrous tidings had to travel far and wide: to the Princess Royal, the daughter in whom
her father had taken such pride, who had so grieved to part from him when she left England
a happy young bride, who had been so glad to greet him in his own old home only a few months
before; to the sailor son on the other side of the globe; to the delicate little boy so lately
sent in search of health, whose natural cry on the sorrowful tale being told to him was, "Take
me to mamma."

Deprived in one year of both mother and husband, alone where family relations were concerned,
save for her children; with her eldest son, the Prince of Wales, a lad of not more than twenty
years, the devoted servants of the Queen rallied round her and strove to support and comfort her.

In the absence of the Princess Royal and the Princess of Hohenlohe, the Duchess of Sutherland,
one of the Queen's oldest friends, herself a widow, was sent for to be with her royal mistress.
Lady Augusta Bruce watched day and night by the daughter as she had watched by the mother.
The Queen's people did not know how sore was the struggle, how near they were to losing her.
Princess Alice wrote years afterwards of that first dreadful night, of the next three terrible
days, with a species of horror, and wondered again and again how she and her mother survived
that time. The Queen's weakness was so great that her pulse could hardly be felt. "She spoke
constantly about God's knowing best, but showed herself broken-hearted," Lady Bloomfield tells
us. It was a sensible relief to the country when it was made public that the Queen had slept
for some hours.

The doctors urgently advised that her Majesty should leave Windsor and go to Osborne, but she
shrank unconquerably from thus quitting all that was mortal of the Prince till he had been
laid to rest. The old King of the Belgians, her second father, afflicted in her affliction
as he had gloried in her happiness, added his earnest entreaty to, the medical men's opinion,
in vain, till the plea was brought forward that for her children's sake--that they might be
removed from the fever- tainted atmosphere, the painful step ought to be taken. Even then it
was mainly by the influence of the Princess Alice that the Queen, who had proved just and reasonable
in all her acts, who had been confirmed by him who was gone in habits of self-control and self-denial,
who was the best of mothers, gave up the last sad boon which the poorest might claim, and consented
to go immediately with her daughters to Osborne.

But first her Majesty visited Frogmore, where the Duchess of Kent's mausoleum had been built,
that she might choose the spot for another and larger mausoleum where the husband and wife
would yet lie side by side. It was on the 18th of December that the Queen, accompanied by Princess
Alice, drove from the Castle on her melancholy errand. They were received at Frogmore by the
Prince of Wales, Prince Louis of Hesse, who had arrived in England, Sir Charles Phipps, and
Sir James Clark. Her Majesty walked round the gardens leaning on her daughter's arm, and selected
the place where the coffin of the Prince would be finally deposited. Shortly afterwards the
sad party left for Osborne, where a veil must be drawn over the sorrow which, like the love
that gave it birth, has had few parallels.

The funeral was at Windsor on the 23rd of December. Shortly before twelve o'clock the cortege
assembled which was to conduct the remains of the late Prince Consort the short distance from
the state entrance of Windsor Castle, through the Norman Tower Gate to St. George's Chapel.
Nine mourning-coaches, each drawn by four horses, conveyed the valets, foresters, riders, librarian,
and doctors; the equerries, ushers, grooms, gentlemen, and lords in waiting of his late Royal
Highness; and the great officers of the Household. One of the Queen's carriages drawn by six
horses contained the Prince's coronet borne by Earl Spencer, and his baton, sword, and hat
by Lord George Lennox. The hearse, drawn by six horses, was escorted by a detachment of Life
Guards.

The carriages of the Queen, the Prince of Wales, the Duke of Cambridge, and the Duchess of
Cambridge followed. The company which had received commands to be present at the ceremony,
including the foreign ambassadors, the Cabinet Ministers, the officers of the household, and
many of the nobility and higher clergy, entered St. George's Chapel by the Wolsey door and
were conducted to seats in the choir. The Knights of the Garter occupied their stalls. The
royal family, with their guests, came privately from the Castle and assembled in the chapter-room.
The members of the procession moved up the nave in the same order in which they had been driven
to the South porch. Among them were the representatives of all the foreign states connected
by blood or marriage with the late Prince, the choir, canons, and Dean of Windsor. After the
baton, sword, and crown, carried on black velvet cushions, came the comptroller in the Chamberlain's
department, Vice-Chamberlain, and Lord Chamberlain, then the crimson velvet coffin, the pall
borne by the members of the late Prince's suite. Garter-King-at-Arms followed, walking before
the chief mourner, the Prince of Wales, who was supported by Prince Arthur, a little lad of
eleven, and the Duke of Saxe-Coburg, and attended by General Bruce. Behind came the son-in-law,
the Crown Prince of Prussia, the cousins--the sons of the King of the Belgians--with the Duc
de Nemours, Prince Louis of Hesse, Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar, the Queen's nephew, Count
Gleichen, and the Maharajah Dhuleep Singh. The gentlemen in waiting on the foreign princes
wound up the procession.

When the coffin arrived within the choir, the crown, baton, sword, and hat were placed on it.
That morning a messenger had come from Osborne with three wreaths and a bouquet. The wreaths
were simple garlands of moss and violets woven by the three elder princesses; the bouquet of
violets, with a white camellia in the centre, was from the Queen. These were laid between the
heraldic insignia. The Prince of Wales with his brother and uncle stood at the head, the Lord
Chamberlain at the foot, the other mourners and the pallbearers around. Minute-guns were fired
at intervals by Horse Artillery in the Long Walk. A guard of honour of the Grenadier Guards,
of which the Prince Consort had been colonel, presented arms on the coming of the body and
when it was lowered into the grave. During the service the thirty-ninth Psalm, Luther's Hymn,
and two chorales were sung.

The Prince of Wales bore up with a brave effort, now and then seeking to soothe his young brother,
who, with swollen eyes and tear-stained face, when the long wail of the dirge smote upon his
ear, sobbed as if his heart were breaking. At the words--

  "To fall asleep in slumber deep,
  Slumber that knows no waking,"

part of a favourite chant of the Prince Consort's, both his sons hid their faces and wept.
The Duke of Coburg wept incessantly for the comrade of his youth, the friend of his mature years.

Garter-King-at-Arms proclaimed the style and title of the deceased. When he referred to her
Majesty with the usual prayer, "Whom God bless and preserve with long life, health, and happiness,"
for the first time in her reign the word "happiness" was omitted and that of "honour" substituted,
and the full significance of the change went to the hearts of the listeners with a woeful reminder
of what had come and gone. The Prince of Wales advanced first to take his last look into the
vault, stood for a moment with clasped hands and burst into tears. In the end Prince Arthur
was the more composed of the two fatherless brothers.

As the company retired, the "Dead March in Saul" was pealed forth.

The whole ceremony was modelled on the precedent of other royal funerals, but surely rarely
was mourning so keen or sorrow so deep.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

THE FIRST MONTHS OF WIDOWHOOD--MARRIAGE OF THE PRINCE OF WALES, ETC., ETC.

The Princess of Hohenlohe arrived in England on the 20th of December, and immediately joined
the Queen at Osborne before the funeral of the Prince. The old King of the Belgians came to
Osborne on the 29th of December--one can imagine his meeting with the widowed Queen.

On the 10th of January, 1862, occurred the terrible Hartley Colliery accident, by which upwards
of two hundred miners perished. The Queen's grief for the Prince was not a month old when she
telegraphed from Osborne her "tenderest sympathy for the poor widows and mothers."

The Prince of Wales left Osborne on the 6th of February in strict privacy to accomplish the
tour in the East projected for him by his father. The Prince was accompanied by Dean Stanley,
General Bruce, &c.