But as I do not intend to write an essay on yellow fever, I will make an end, and get on shipboard
as fast as I can, after stating one strong fact, authenticated to me by many unimpeachable
witnesses.  It is this; that this dreadful epidemic, or contagious fever--call it which you
will, has never appeared, or been propagated at or beyond an altitude of 3000 feet above the
level of the sea, although people seized with it on the hot sultry plains, and removed thither,
have unquestionably died.  In a country like Jamaica, with a range of lofty mountains, far
exceeding this height, intersecting the island through nearly its whole length, might not Government,
after satisfying themselves of the truth of the fact, improve on the hint?  Might not a main--guard
suffice in Kingston, for instance, while the regiments were in quarters half--way up the Liguanea
Mountains, within twelve miles actual distance from the town, and within view of it, so that
during the day, by a semaphore on the mountain, and another at the barrack of the outpost,
a constant and instantaneous communication could be kept up, and, if need were, by lights in
the night?

The admiral, for instance, had a semaphore in the stationary flagship at Port Royal, which
communicated with another at his Pen, or residence, near Kingston; and this again rattled off
the information to the mountain retreat, where he occasionally retired to careen; and it is
fitting to state also, that in all the mountain districts of Jamaica which I visited, there
is abundance of excellent water and plenty of fuel.  These matters are worth consideration,
one would think; however, allons--it is no business of Tom Cringle's.

Speaking of telegraphing, I will relate an anecdote here, if you will wait until I mend my
pen.  I had landed at Greenwich wharf on duty--this was the nearest point of communication
between Port Royal and the Admiral's Pen--where, finding the flag lieutenant, he drove me up
in his ketureen to lunch.  While we were regaling ourselves, the old signalman came into the
piazza, and with several most remarkable obeisances, gave us to know that there were flags
hoisted on the signalmast, at the mountain settlement, of which he could make nothing, the
uppermost was neither the interrogative, the affirmative, nor the negative, nor in fact any
thing that with the book he could make sense of.

"Odd enough," said the lieutenant; "hand me the glass," and he peered away for half a minute.
"Confound me if I can make heads or tails of it either; there, Cringle, what do you think?
How do you construe it?"

I took the telescope.  Uppermost there was hoisted on the signal mast a large tablecloth, not
altogether immaculate, and under it a towel, as I guessed, for it was too opaque for bunting,
and too white, although I could not affirm that it was fresh out of the fold either.

"I am puzzled," said I, as I spied away again.  Meanwhile there was no acknowledgment made
at our semaphore--"There, down they go," I continued "Why, it must be a mistake, Stop, here's
a new batch going up above the green trees--There goes the tablecloth once more, and the towel,
and deuce take me, if I can compare the lowermost to any thing but a dishclout--why, it must
be a dishclout."

The flags, or substitutes for them, streamed another minute in the breeze, but as there was
still no answer made from our end of the string, they were once more hauled down--We waited
another minute--"Why, here goes the same signal up again, tablecloth, towel, dishclout, and
all--What the diable have we got here?  A red ball, two pennants under. What can that mean?--Ball--it
is the bonnet--rouge, or I am a Dutchman, with two short streamers" Another look--"A red night--cap
and a pair of stockings, by all that is portentous!" exclaimed I.

"Ah, I see, I see!" said the lieutenant, laughing, "signal--man, acknowledge it."

It was done, and down came all the flags in a trice.  It appeared, on enquiry, that the washing
cart, which ought to have been sent up that morning, had been forgotten; and the Admiral and
his secretary having ridden out, there was no one who could make the proper signal for it.
So the old housekeeper took this singular method of having the cart despatched, and it was
sent off accordingly.

For the first week after I entered on my new office, I was busily engaged on board; during
which time my mind was quite made up, that the most rising man in his Majesty's service, beyond
all compare, was Lieutenant Thomas Cringle, third of the Firebrand.  During this eventful period
I never addressed a note to any friend on shore, or to a brother officer, without writing in
the left--hand lower corner of the envelope, "Lieutenant Cringle," and clapping three dashing,
&c. &c. &c below the party's name for whom it was intended.

"Must let 'em know that an officer of my rank in the service knows somewhat of the courtesies
of life, eh?"

In about ten days, however, we had gotten the ship into high order and ready for sea, and now
the glory and honour of command, like my only epaulet, that had been soaked while on duty in
one or two showers, and afterwards regularly bronzed in the sun, began to tarnish, and lose
the new gloss, like every thing else in this weary world.  It was about this time, while sitting
at breakfast in the gunroom one fine morning, with the other officers of our mess, gossiping
about I hardly remember what, that we heard the captain's voice on deck.

"Call the first lieutenant."

"He is at breakfast, sir," said the man, whoever he might have been, to whom the order was
addressed.

"Never mind then--Here, boatswain's mate--Pipe away the men who were captured in the boats;
tell them to clean themselves, and send Mr-----to me"--(This was the officer who had been taken
prisoner along with them in the first attack)--"they are wanted in Kingston at the trial today.
Stop, tell Mr Cringle also to get ready to go in the gig."

The pirates, to the amount of forty--five, had been transferred to Kingston jail some days
previously, preparatory to their trial, which, as above--mentioned, was fixed for this day.

We pulled cheerily up to Kingston, and, landing at the Wherry wharf, marched along the hot
dusty streets, under a broiling sun, Captain Transom, the other Lieutenant, and myself, in
full puff, leading the van, followed by about fourteen seamen, in white straw hats, with broad
black ribbons, and clean white frocks and trowsers, headed by a boatswain's mate, with his
silver whistle hung round his neck--as respectable a tail as any Christian could desire to
swinge behind him; and, man for man, I would willingly have perilled my promotion upon their
walloping, with no offensive weapons but their stretchers, the Following, claymores and all,
of any proud, disagreeable, would--be mighty mountaineer, that ever turned up his supercilious,
whisky blossomed snout at Bailie Jarvie.  On they came, square--shouldered, narrow--flanked,
tall, strapping fellows, tumbling and rolling about the piazzas in knots of three and four,
until, at the corner of King Street, they came bolt up upon a well--known large, fat, brown
lady, famous for her manufacture of spruce beer.

"Avast, avast a bit"--sung out one of the topmen--"let the nobs heave a head, will ye, and
let's have a pull."

"Here, old mother Slush," sung out another of the cutter's crew. "Hand us up a dozen bottles
of spruce, do you hear?"

"Dozen battle of pruce!" groaned the old woman--"who shall pay me?"

"Why, do you think the Firebrands are thieves, you old canary, you?"

"How much, eh?" said the boatswain's mate.

"Twelve feepennies," quoth the matron.

"Oh, ah!" said one of the men--"Twelve times five is half a crown; there's a dollar for you,
old mother Popandchokem--now give me back five shillings."

"Eigh, oh!" whined out the spruce merchant; "you dem rascal, who tell you dat your dollar more
wort den any one else money eh? How can give you back five shilling and keep back twelve feepenny--eh?"
The culprit, who had stood the Cocker of the company, had by this time gained his end, which
was to draw the fat damsel a step or two from the large tub half--full of water, where the
bottles were packed, and to engage her attention by stirring up her bile, or corruption, as
they call it in Scotland, while his messmates instantly seized the opportunity, and a bottle
a--piece also, and, as I turned round to look for them, there they all were in a circle taking
the meridian altitude of the sun, or as if they had been taking aim at the pigeons on the eaves
of the houses above them with Indian mouth tubes.

They then replaced the bottles in the tub, paid the woman more than she asked; but, by way
of taking out the change, they chucked her stern foremost into the water amongst her merchandise,
and then shouldered the vessel, old woman and all, and away they staggered with her, the empty
bottles clattering together in the water, and the old lady swearing and bouncing and squattering
amongst them, while jack shouted to her to hold her tongue, or they would let her go by the
run bodily.  Thus they stumped in the wake of their captain, until he arrived at the door of
the Courthouse, to the great entertainment of the bystanders, cutting the strings that confined
the corks of the stone bottles as they bowled along, popping the spruce into each other's faces,
and the faces of the negroes, as they ran out of the stores to look at jack in his frolic,
and now and then taking a shot at the old woman's cockemony itself, as she was held kicking
and spurring high above their heads.

At length the captain, who was no great way ahead, saw what was going on, which was the signal
for doucinog the whole affair, spruce--woman, tub, and bottles; and the party gathering themselves
up, mustered close aboard of us, as grave as members of the General Assembly.

The regular courthouse of the city being under repair, the Admiralty Sessions were held in
a large room occupied temporarily for the purpose. At one end, raised two steps above the level
of the floor, was the bench, on which were seated the Judge of the Admiralty Court, supported
by two post captains in full uniform, who are ex--officio judges of this court in the colonies,
one on each side.  On the right, the jury, composed of merchants of the place, and respectable
planters of the neighbourhood, were enclosed in a sort of box, with a common white pine railing
separating it from the rest of the court.  There was a long table in front of the bench, at
which a lot of blackrobed devil's limbs of lawyers, were ranged--but both amongst them, and
on the bench, the want of the cauliflower wigs was sorely felt by me, as well as by the seamen,
who considered it little less than murder, that men in crops-- black shock--pated fellows--should
sit in judgment on their fellow creatures, where life and death were in the scales.

On the left hand of the bench, the motley public, white, black, and of every intermediate shade--were
grouped; as also in front of the dock, which was large.  It might have been made with a view
to the possibility of fifteen unfortunates or so being arraigned at one time; but now there
were no fewer than forty--three jammed and pegged together into it, like sheep in a Smithfield
pen the evening before market--day.  These were the forty thieves--the pirates.  They were
all, without exception, clean, well shaven, and decently rigged in white trowsers, linen or
check shirts, and held their broad Panama sombreros in their hands.

Most of them wore the red silk sash round the waist.  They had generally large bushy whiskers,
and not a few had earrings of massive gold, (why call wearing earrings puppyism?  Shakspeare
wore earrings, or the Chandos portrait lies,) and chains of the same metal round their necks,
supporting, as I concluded, a crucifix, hid in the bosom of the shirt. A Spaniard can't murder
a man comfortably, if he has not his crucifix about him.

They were, collectively, the most daring, intrepid, Salvator Rosa looking men I had ever seen.
Most of them were above the middle size, and the spread of their shoulders, the grace with
which their arms were hung, and finely developed muscles of the chest and neck, the latter
exposed completely by the folding back of their shirt collars, cut large and square, after
the Spanish fashion, beat the finest boat's--crew we could muster all to nothing.  Some of
them were of mixed blood, that is, the cross between the European Spaniard and the aboriginal
Indian of Cuba, a race long since sacrificed on tile altar of Mammon, the white man's god.

Their hair, generally speaking, was long, and curled over the forehead black and glossy, or
hung down to their shoulders in ringlets, that a dandy of the second Charles's time would have
given his little finger for.  The forehead in most was high and broad, and of a clear olive,
the nose straight, springing boldly from the brow, the cheeks oval, and the mouth--every Spaniard
has a beautiful mouth, until he spoils it with the beastly cigar, as far as his well--formed
firm lips can be spoiled; but his teeth he generally does destroy early in life.  Take the
whole, however, and deduct for the teeth, I had never seen so handsome a set of men; and I
am sure no woman, had she been there, would have gainsayed me.  They stood up, and looked forth
upon their judges and the jury like brave men, desperadoes though they were.  They were, without
exception, calm and collected, as if aware that they had small chance of escape, but still
determined not to give that chance away.  One young man especially attracted my attention,
from the bold, cool self--possession of his bearing.  He was in the very front of the dock,
and dressed in no way different from the rest, so far as his under garments were concerned,
unless it were that they were of a finer quality.  He wore a short green velvet jacket, profusely
studded with knobs and chains, like small chain--shot, of solid gold, similar to the shifting
button lately introduced by our dandies in their waistcoats.  It was not put on, but hung on
one shoulder, being fastened across his breast by the two empty sleeves tied together in a
knot.  He also wore the red silk sash, through which a broad gold cord ran twining like the
strand of a rope. He had no earrings, but his hair was the most beautiful I had ever seen in
a male--long and black, jet black and glossy.  It was turned up and fastened in a club on the
crown of his head with a large pin, I should rather say skewer, of silver; but the outlandishness
of the fashion was not offensive, when I came to take into the account the beauty of the plaiting,
and of the long raven lovelocks that hung down behind each of his small transparent ears, and
the short Hyperion--like curls that clustered thick and richly on his high, pale, broad forehead.
His eyes were large, black, and swimming, like a woman's; his nose straight and thin; and such
a mouth, such an under--lip, full and melting; and teeth regular and white, and utterly free
from the pollution of tobacco; and a beautifully moulded small chin, rounding off, and merging
in his round, massive, muscular neck.

I had never seen so fine a face, such perfection of features, and such a clear, dark, smooth
skin.  It was a finer face than Lord Byron's, whom I had seen more than once, and wanted that
hellish curl of the lip; and, as to figure, he could, to look at him, at any time have eaten
up his lordship stoop and roop to his breakfast.  It was the countenance, in a word, of a most
beautiful youth, melancholy, indeed, and anxious evidently anxious; for the large pearls that
coursed each other down his forehead and cheek, and the slight quivering of the under--lip,
every now and then evinced the powerful struggle that was going on within. His figure was,
if possible, superior to his face.  It was not quite filled up, set, as we call it, but the
arch of his chest was magnificent, his shoulders square, arms well put on; but his neck--"Have
you seen the Apollo, neighbour?"--"No, but the cast of it at Somerset House."--"Well, that
will do--so you know the sort of neck he had." His waist was fine, hips beautifully moulded;
and although his under limbs were shrouded in his wide trowsers, they were evidently of a piece
with what was seen and developed; and this was vouched for by the turn of his ankle and well--shaped
foot on which he wore a small Spanish grass slipper, fitted with great nicety.  He was at least
six feet two in height, and such as I have described him; there he stood, with his hands grasping
the rail before him and looking intently at a wigless lawyer who was opening the accusation,
while he had one ear turned a little towards the sworn interpreter of the court, whose province
it was, at every pause, to explain to the prisoners what the learned gentleman was stating.
From time to time he said a word or two to a square--built, dark, ferocious--looking man standing
next him, apparently about forty years of age, who, as well as his fellow prisoners, appeared
to pay him great respect; and I could notice the expression of their countenances change as
his rose or fell.

The indictment had been read before I came in, and, as already mentioned, the lawyer was proceeding
with his accusatory speech, and, as it appeared to me, the young Spaniard had some difficulty
in understanding the interpreter's explanation.  Whenever he saw me, he exclaimed, "Ah! aqui
viene, el Senor Teniente--ahora sabremos ahora, ahora;" and he beckoned to me to draw near.
I did so.

"I beg pardon, Mr Cringle," he said in Spanish, with the ease and grace of a nobleman "but
I believe the interpreter to be incapable, and I am certain that what I say is not fittingly
explained to the judges; neither do I believe he can give me a sound notion of what the advocate
(avocado) is alleging against us.  May I entreat you to solicit the bench for permission to
take his place?  I know you will expect no apology for the trouble from a man in my situation."

This unexpected address in open court took me fairly aback, and I stopped short while in the
act of passing the open space in front of the dock, which was kept clear by six marines in
white jackets, whose muskets, fixed bayonets, and uniform caps, seemed out of place to my mind
in a criminal court.  The lawyer suddenly suspended his harangue, while the judges fixed their
eyes on me, and so did the audience, confound them!  To be the focus of so many eyes was trying
to my modesty; for, although unacquainted with bettermost society, still, below any little
manner that I had acquired, there was, and always will be, an under stratum of bashfulness,
or sheepishness, or mauvaise honte, call it which you will; and the torture, the breaking on
the wheel, with which a man of that temperament perceives the eyes of a whole courthouse, for
instance, attracted to him, none but a bashful man can understand.  At length I summoned courage
to speak.

"May it please your honours, this poor fellow, on his own behalf, and on the part of his fellow--prisoners,
complains of the incapacity of the sworn interpreter, and requests that I may be made the channel
of communication in his stead."

This was a tremendous effort, and once more the whole blood of my body rushed to my cheeks
and forehead, and I "sweat extremely." The judges, he of the black robe and those of the epaulet,
communed together.

"Have you any objection to be sworn, Mr Cringle?"

"None in the least, provided the court considers me competent, and the accused are willing
to trust to me."

"Si, si!" exclaimed the young Spaniard, as if comprehending what was going on--"Somos contentos--todos,
todos!" and he looked round, like a prince, on his fellow--culprits.  A low murmuring, "Si,
si--contento, contento!" passed amongst the group.

"The accused, please your honours, are willing to trust to my correctness."

"Pray, Mr Cringle, don't make yourself the advocate of these men, mind that," said the--, lawyer
sans wig.

"I don't intend it, sir," I said, slightly stung; "but if you had suffered what I have done
at their hands, peradventure such a caution to you would have been unnecessary."

The  sarcasm  told, I was glad to see; but remembering where  I  was,  I hauled but of action
with the man of words, simply giving the last shot "I am sure no English gentleman would willingly
throw any difficulty in the  way  of  the  poor fellows being made aware of  what  is  given
in evidence against them, bad as they may be."

He was about rejoining, for a lawyer would as soon let you have the last word as a sweep or
a baker the wall, when the officer of court approached and swore me in, and the trial proceeded.

The whole party were proved by fifty witnesses to have been taken in arms on board of the schooners
in the Cove; and farther, it was proved that no commission or authority to cruise whatsoever
was found on board any of them, a strong proof that they were pirates.

"Que dice, que dice?" enquired the young Spaniard already mentioned.

I said that the court seemed to infer, and were pressing it on the jury, that the absence of
any commission or letter of marque from a superior officer, or from any of the Spanish authorities,
was strong evidence that they were marauders--in fact pirates.

"Ah!" he exclaimed; "gracias, gracias!" Then, with an agitated hand, he drew from his bosom
a parchment, folded like the manifest of a merchant ship, and at the same moment the gruff
fierce--looking elderly man did the same, with another similar instrument from his own breast.

"Here, here are the commissions--here are authorities from the Captain General of Cuba.  Read
them."

I looked over them; they were regular to all appearance; at least as there were no autographs
in court of the Spanish Viceroy, or any of his officers, whose signatures, either real or forged,
were affixed to the instruments, with which to compare them, there was a great chance, I conjectured,
so far as I saw, that they would be acquitted: and in this case we, his majesty's officers,
would have been converted into the transgressing party; for if it were established that the
vessels taken were bona fide Guarda Costas, we should be placed in an awkward predicament,
in having captured them by force of arms, not to take into account the having violated the
sanctity of a friendly port.

But I could see that this unexpected production of regular papers by their officers had surprised
the pirates themselves, as much as it had done me,--whether it was a heinous offence of mine
or not to conceal this impression from the court, (there is some dispute about the matter to
this hour between me and my conscience,) I cannot tell; but I was determined to stick scrupulously
to the temporary duties of my office, without stating what I suspected, or even translating
some sudden expressions overheard by me, that would have shaken the credibility of the documents.

"Comissiones, comissiones!" for instance, was murmured by a weather beaten Spaniard, with a
fine bald head, from which two small tufts of grey hair stood out above his ears, and with
a superb Moorish face "Comissiones es decir patentes--Si hay comissiones, el Diablo, mismo,
les ha hecho!"

The court was apparently nonplussed--not so the wigless man of law.  His pea green visage assumed
a more ghastly hue, and the expression of his eyes became absolutely blasting.  He looked altogether
like a cat sure of her mouse, but willing to let it play in fancied joy of escaping, as he
said softly to the Jew crier, who was perched in a high chair above the heads of the people,
like an ugly corbie in its dirty nest--"Crier, call Job Rumbletithump, mate of the Porpoise."

"Job Rumbletithump, come into court!"

"Here," quoth Job, as a stout, bluff honest--looking sailor rolled into the witnessbox.

"Now, clerk of the crown, please to swear in the mate of the Porpoise." It was done.  "Now,
my man, you were taken going through the Caicos Passage in the Porpoise by pirates, in August
last--were you not?"

"Yes, sir."

"Turn your face to the jury, and speak up, sir.  Do you see any of the honest men who made
free with you in that dock, sir?  Look at them, sir."

"The mate walked up to the dock, stopped, and fixed his eyes intently on the young Spaniard.
I stared breathlessly at him also.  He grows pale as death--his lip quivers--the large drops
of sweat once more burst from his brow. I grew sick, sick.

"Yes, your honour," said the mate.

"Yes--ah!" said the devil's limb, chuckling--"we are getting on the trail at last.  Can you
swear to more than one?"

"Yes, your honour."

"Yes!" again responded the sans wig.  "How many?"

The man counted them off.  "Fifteen, sir.  That young fellow there is the man who cut Captain
Spurtel's throat, after violating his wife before his eyes."

"God forgive me, is it possible?" gasped Thomas Cringle.

"There's a monster in human form for you, gentlemen," continued devil's limb.  "Go on, Mr Rumbletithump."

"That other man next him hung me up by the heels, and seared me on the bare"--Here honest job
had just time to divert the current of his speech into a loud "whew."

"Seared you on the whew!" quoth the facetious lawyer, determined to have his jest, even in
the face of forty--three of his fellow creatures trembling on the brink of eternity.  "Explain,
sir, tell the court where you were seared, and how you were seared, and all about your being
seared."

Job twisted and lolloped about, as if he was looking out for some opening to bolt through;
but all egress was shut up.

"Why, please your honour," the eloquent blood mantling in his honest sunburnt cheeks; while
from my heart I pitied the poor fellow, for he was absolutely broiling in his bashfulness--"He
seared me onon--why, please your honour, he seared me on--with a redhot iron!"

"Why, I guessed as much, if he seared you at all; but where did he sear you?  Come now," coaxingly,
"tell the court where and how he applied the actual cautery."

Job being thus driven to his wit's end, turned and stood at bay.  "Now I will tell you, your
honour, if you will but sit down for a moment, and answer me one question."

"To be sure; why, Job, you brighten on us.  There, I am down now for your question."

"Now, sir," quoth Rumbletithump, imitating his tormentor's manner much more cleverly than I
expected, "what part of your honour's body touches your chair?"

"How, sir!" said the man of words--"how dare you, sir, take such a liberty, sir?" while a murmuring
laugh hummed through the court.

"Now, sir, since you won't answer me, sir," said Job, elevated by his victory, while his hoarse
voice roughened into a loud growl, "I will answer myself.  I was seared, sir, where"--

"Silence!" quoth the crier at this instant drowning the mate's voice, so that I could not catch
the words he used.

"And there you have it, sir.  Put me in jail, if you like, sir."

The murmur was bursting out into a guffaw, when the judge interfered. But there was no longer
any attempt at ill--timed jesting on the part of the bar, which was but bad taste at the best
on so solemn an occasion.

Job continued, "I was burnt into the very muscle until I told where the gold was stowed away."

"Aha!" screamed the lawyer, forgetting his recent discomfiture in the gladness of his success.
"And all the rest were abetting, eh?"

"The rest of the fifteen were, sir."

But the prosecutor, a glutton in his way, had thought he had bagged the whole forty--three.
And so he ultimately did before the evening closed in, as most of the others were identified
by other witnesses; and when they could not actually be sworn to, the piracies were brought
home to them by circumstantial evidence; such, for instance, as having been captured on board
of the craft we had taken, which again were identified as the very vessels which had plundered
the merchantmen and murdered several of their crews, so that by six o'clock the jury had returned
a verdict of Guilty--and I believe there never was a juster--against the whole of them.  The
finding, and sentence of death following thereupon, seemed not to create any strong effect
upon the prisoners.  They had all seen how the trial was going; and, long before this, the
bitterness of death seemed to be past.

I could hear one of our boat's crew, who was standing behind me, say to his neighbour, "Why,
Jem, surely he is in joke.  Why, he don't mean to condemn them to be hanged seriously, without
his wig, eh?"

Immediately after the judgment was pronounced, which, both as to import, and literally, I had
translated to them, Captain Transom, who was sitting on the bench beside his brother officers,
nodded to me, "I say, Mr Cringle, tell the coxswain to call Pearl, if you please."

I passed the word to one of the Firebrand's marines, who was on duty, who again repeated the
order to a seaman who was standing at the door.

"I say, Moses, call the clergyman."

Now this Pearl was no other than the seaman who pulled the stroke--oar in the gig; a very handsome
negro, and the man who afterwards forked Whiffle out of the water--tall, powerful, and muscular,
and altogether one of the best men in the ship.  The rest of the boat's crew, from his complexion,
had fastened the sobriquet of the clergyman on him.

"Call the clergyman."

The superseded interpreter, who was standing near, seemingly  took no notice, immediately traduced
this literally to the unhappy men.  A murmur arose amongst them.

"Que--el padre ya!  Somos en Capilla entonces--poco tiempo, poco tiempo!"

They had thought that the clergyman having been sent for, the sentence was immediately to be
executed, but I undeceived them; and, in ten minutes after they were condemned, they were marched
off under a strong escort of foot to the jail.

I must make a long story short.  Two days afterwards, I was ordered with the launch to Kingston,
early in the morning, to receive twenty--five of the pirates who had been ordered for execution
that morning at Gallows Point.  It was little past four in the morning when we arrived at the
Wherry wharf, where they were already clustered, with their hands pinioned behind their backs,
silent and sad, but all of them calm, and evincing no unmanly fear of death.

