My fascinating manner of greeting Geraldine on Victoria Station did not betray the fact that
I had seen that arch-villain, George Nesbitt, installed in our train, looking terribly important.
George doesn't want to marry any girl; every girl therefore wants to marry George. I managed
to hustle Geraldine into our carriage and get her locked in without her seeing George. But
George had seen her, and, not knowing that he doesn't want to marry any girl and thinking that
he wants to marry every girl, he firmly convinced himself (I have no doubt) that he was passionately
in love with Geraldine as he travelled down to Folkestone in his lonely splendour.

On the Channel boat ... but perhaps it is fairer to all parties to omit that part.

At Boulogne I became inextricably mixed up with the Customs' people; Geraldine meanwhile got
inevitably associated with George Nesbitt. She would, of course. Indeed, when at last I scrambled
to the Paris train, with the cord of my pyjamas trailing from my kit-bag, there was Geraldine
installed in George's special carriage, very sympathetically studying George's passport, wherein
all Foreign Powers, great, small and medium- sized, were invited in red ink to regard George as It.

George informed me that, being a King's Messenger, he was afraid he dare not trust me, as a
mere member of the public, to travel in the same carriage as the Diplomatic Bag. I said I must
stay with them and keep an eye on Geraldine. George said that he would do that. In that case,
I said, I would stay and keep an eye on the Diplomatic Bag. Geraldine being at one end of the
carriage and the bag being at the other end George could not very well keep an eye on both.
The possibility of George's eyes wandering apart when he was off his guard made a fleeting
impression on Geraldine in my favour. I stayed.

George then set about to make the most of himself. Geraldine abetted. Geraldine is a terror.
I became more determined than ever to marry her, George and the KING notwithstanding. George
however got going. "For a plain fellow like myself" (he knows how confoundedly handsome he
is) "it has been some little satisfaction to be selected as a Special Courier."

I explained the method of selection as I guessed it. "He forced his way into the F.O. and in
an obsequious tone, which you and I, Geraldine, would be ashamed to adopt, begged for the favour
of a bag to carry with him. If the KING had known about it he would rather have sent his messages
by post."

"The general public," said George to Geraldine, "is apt to be very noisy and tiresome on railway
journeys, is it not?"

Geraldine acquiesced. She doesn't often do that, but when she does it is extremely pleasant
for the acquiescee. I pressed on with my explanation desperately. "I can hear poor old George
pleading in a broken voice that he had to get to Paris and dared not go by himself. So they
listened to his sad story and gave him a bag to see him through, and it isn't George who is
taking the bag to Paris, but the bag which is taking George." To prevent him arguing I told
Geraldine that you can tell a real K.M. by his Silver Greyhound badge, which he'll show you
if you doubt him, just as you can tell a stockbroker by his pearl tie-pin, which you can see
for yourself. This put George on his mettle.

"To think that to me are entrusted messages which may alter the map of Europe and change the
history of the world! But I mustn't let my conceit run away with me, must I?" Positively I
believe Geraldine at that began to play with the idea of doing what George said he mustn't
let his conceit do. Anyhow I had half-an-hour to myself while she listened to the inner histories
of European Courts and flirted with the Bearer of Despatches. I was left gazing at the bag.

There was only one bag, but it was very bulky. The contents were a tight fit; something round,
about a yard in diameter, about a foot and a half in depth.

"Are you looking after this bag of yours properly, George?" I asked. "We shall be very angry
with you if you go and lose it." Something indefinable but intensely important in my tone caught
Geraldine's attention.

"That is between me and the F.O.," said George irritably.

"When I was talking to them about it--" said I.

"What have you to do with the Foreign Office?" asked Geraldine.

"Little enough," I said modestly. "I have my own business to see to. But the F.O. have always
wanted to have something to do with me. So I gave them the job of looking after your mother's
hat. Had I known that they would send it along by any Tom, Dick or George who happened to drop
in and offer to take the bag--"

George snatched the bag, examined it hastily and then tried to conceal it behind his own luggage.
But Geraldine knows enough about hats to be able to spot a hatbox, when put to it, through
all the heavy canvas and all the fancy labels in the world. So there was nothing more to be
said about it; and there was little more to be done about it except for George to go on doing
special messenger with it. The inner histories died down and, after a brief silence, George
affected to go to sleep.

I only woke him up once and that was to ask whether he cared to look after the rest of my luggage
for me.

When we got to Paris I explained to George that I had not meant to hurt his feelings; there
was no fellow I would more gladly entrust my odd jobs to. Indeed Geraldine and I should want
him to officiate in a similar capacity at the coming ceremony.

A very satisfactory conclusion. I got Geraldine; Geraldine got her full deserts--me; and if
George had the misfortune to sit on the bag in the taxi, what matter? Geraldine had acquiesced;
after that who cared what Geraldine's mother did, said, thought or wore?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lady Clerk wanted for office work, with an engineering firm, a few
    miles out of Leeds; also able to cook and serve a luncheon for the
    principals."--Yorkshire Paper.

If you want a cook nowadays you must employ a little diplomacy.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "During a discussion on over-crowded motor 'buses a member declared
    that on one occasion 110 persons were found 'clinging like bees' to a
    car certified to hold 0."--Provincial Paper.

Some of these might have been accommodated in the bonnet.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In Nepal His Highness shot what is believed to be the record tigress.
    She was a most magnificent specimen, with a total length of 9 feet 7
    inches--her body alone measuring 9 feet 5 inches."--Indian Paper.

The record, of course, consisted in the brevity of her two-inch tail.

       *       *       *       *       *

From Smith Minor's Scripture-paper:

    "Abraham was the man who was very keen to go into the land of Israel
    but he did not obey the word of the Lord, and the Lord's punishment to
    him was to forbid him to go into this land. There he sat on the heights
    of Abraham looking down on this land."

And crying "Wolfe, Wolfe!"

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLDWIRE AND POPPYSEED.

(A Chinese Poem.)

    I make a bow; and then
    I seize my brush (or pen)
  And paint in hues enamel-bright
  Scenes of Cathay for your delight.

    Two buzzards by a stream,
    So still that they might seem
  Part of a carving wrought in bone
  To decorate a royal throne.

    Two lovers by a mill,
    A picture sweeter still:
  Will Chen-ki-Tong in this pursuit
  Evade Pa-pa's avenging boot?

    Lotus and mirror-lake
    Æsthetic contact make;
  No interfering dragon wags
  His tail across their travelling bags.

    Blue terraces of jade;
    Sherbet and lemonade
  Regale the overloaded guests;
  They loose the buttons on their chests.

    Birds'-nests and shark-fin soup:
    I join the festive group;
  My simple spirit merely begs
  A brace of fifteenth-century eggs.

    Pa-pa with heavy whip
    Waits near the laden ship.
  The cloud that hides the ivory moon
  Is singularly opportune.

    Clamour of gilded gongs
    And shout of wedding songs.
  I do not fail to notice that
  The ophicleides are playing flat.

    Peacock and palanquin,
    Lacquered without, within.
  This is the jasmine-scented bride
  Resting her fairy toes inside.

    Joss-sticks and incense sweet.
    The perfume of her feet
  Creates around her paradise.
  I also find it rather nice.

    A Chinese tale, you know,
    Works upward from below.
  The sense of mine is none the worse
  If taken backward, verse by verse.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Frederick ----, 14, was summoned for failing to display a white front
    light on a bicycle and pleaded guilty.

    Policewoman ---- stated the facts, and was fined 5s."--Local Paper.

Most discouraging.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Florists by the thousand for cutting. They are also nice for borders
    round grass-plots, along hedges, round shrubs, etc."--Dutch Bulb
    Catalogue.

We should not dare to treat a British florist like this.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARIVARIA.

"The English comedians are great," Mr. DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS is reported to have told an interviewer.
He has already accepted an invitation, we understand, to visit the Law Courts and hear Mr.
Justice DARLING ask, "Who is MARY PICKFORD?"

* * *

A turkey with four legs has been born in Purley. This attempt to divert attention from the
visit of Miss MARY PICKFORD seems to have failed miserably.

* * *

"The increased wages in the catering trade," says an employer, "will be borne by the public."
How he came to think out this novel plan is what mystifies the man in the street.

* * *

There is one reason, we read, why tea cannot be sold cheaper. If "The Profiteer" is not the
right answer, it's quite a good guess.

* * *

No burglar seems to visit the houses of the profiteers, says a Labour speaker. Perhaps they
have a delicacy about dealing with people in the same line of business.

* * *

For the seventh successive time, says a news item, there are no prisoners for trial at Stamford
Quarter Sessions. We can only remind the Court that bulldog perseverance is bound to tell in
the end.

* * *

It is fairly evident that the Americans fully realised the physical impossibility of having
American bacon and Prohibition in their own country at the same time.

* * *

Western Texas, says a cable message, is being eaten bare by a plague of grasshoppers. Before
Prohibition set in a little thing like that would never have been noticed in Texas.

* * *

Some of the new rich, says a gossip, only wear a suit once. There are others like that, only
it is a much longer once.

* * *

"A healthy boy's skin should be well tanned after a holiday," says a health-culture writer.
Surely not, unless he has done something to deserve it.

* * *

"But why a Ministry of Mines?" asks a contemporary. The object, of course, is to put the deep-level
pocket-searching operations of the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER on a national basis.

* * *

Special arrangements have been made for expediting fish traffic on all railways. Meanwhile
it is to be regretted that, owing to the nation's persistent neglect of scientific research,
the self-delivering haddock is still in the experimental stage.

* * *

New Jersey has a clock with a dial thirty-eight feet across. In any other country this would
be the largest clock in the world. In America it is just a full-size wrist-watch.

* * *

According to a medical writer, hearing can often be restored by a series of low explosions.
The patient is advised to stand quite close to a man who has just received his tailor's bill.

* * *

Baby tortoises are being sold for two-pence-halfpenny each in Kentish Town, says a news item.
One bricklayer declared that he wouldn't know what to do for exercise without his to lead about.

* * *

An extraordinary report reaches us from a village in Essex. It appears that in spite of the
proximity of several letter-boxes, a water-pump and a German machine-gun, a robin has deliberately
built its nest in a local hedgerow.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, June 28th.--Less than thirty years ago the prophets of ill foresaw ruin for the British
shipping trade if the dock labourers got their "tanner." The "tanner" has now become a florin,
and this afternoon the Peers passed without a dissentient voice the Second Reading of a Bill
to enable Port and Harbour authorities to pay it.

They were much more critical over the Increase of Rent Bill, and at the instance of Lord MIDLETON
defeated by a two to one majority the Government's proposal to deprive landlords of the power
to evict strikers in order to provide accommodation for men willing to work. But the Government
got a little of their own back on the clause authorising an increase of rent on business premises
by forty per cent. Lord SALISBURY wanted seventy-five per cent. and haughtily refused Lord
ASTOR'S sporting offer of fifty, but on a division he was beaten by 25 to 23.

In the Commons Sir FREDERICK HALL complained that slate and slack were still being supplied
to London consumers under the guise and at the price of coal. What was the Government going
to do about it? Mr. BRIDGEMAN replied that control having been removed the Government could
do nothing, and consumers must find their own remedy--a reply which drove Sir FREDERICK into
such paroxysms of indignation that the SPEAKER was obliged to intervene.

Mr. KILEY'S gloomy vaticinations as to the disastrous effect of the Plumage Bill on British
commerce met with no encouragement from Sir ROBERT HORNE. In his opinion, I gather, our foreign
trade is quite safe, and the Bill will not knock a feather out of it.

To Viscount CURZON'S inquiry whether the Allies were going to proceed with the trial of the
EX-KAISER the PRIME MINISTER at first replied that he had "nothing to add." On being twitted
with his election-pledge he added a good deal. When he gave that pledge, it seems, he did not
contemplate the possibility that Holland would refuse to surrender her guest, and he had no
intention of using force to compel her. WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN, he considered, was not worth
any more bloodshed. In that case the Government would save a good deal of Parliamentary time
if they were definitely to write him off with their other bad debts.

Among other methods of brightening village life the Ministry of Agriculture has lately circulated
"rules for the mutual insurance of pigs and cows." The intellectual development of our domestic
animals evidently proceeds apace. We have all heard of the learned pig, but that the cow also
should be deemed capable of conducting actuarial calculations does, I confess, surprise me.

Having heard the latest feat of the Sinn Feiners in kidnapping a British General, the House
evidently considered that it had better hurry up with the Government of Ireland Bill. Clauses
51 to 69 were run through in double-quick time. Only on Clause 70, providing for the repeal
of the Home Rule Act of 1914, did any prolonged debate arise. Captain WEDGWOOD BENN pleasantly
described this as the only clause in the Bill that was not nonsense, and therefore moved its
omission. He was answered by the PRIME MINISTER, who declared that no Irishman would now be
content with the Act of 1914, and defended the present Bill on the curious ground that it gave
Ireland as much self-government as Scotland had ever asked for. Sir EDWARD CARSON'S plea that
it was a case of "this Bill or an Irish Republic" was probably more convincing. In a series
of divisions the "Wee Frees" never mustered more than seventeen votes. The author of the Act
of 1914, Mr. ASQUITH, was not present at the obsequies.

Tuesday, June 29th.--The establishment of a "National home" for the Jewish race in Palestine
aroused the apprehensions of Lord SYDENHAM and other Peers, who feared that the Moslem inhabitants
would be exploited by the Zionists, and would endeavour to re-establish Turkish rule. Lord
CURZON did his best to remove these impressions. Authority in Palestine would be exercised
by Great Britain as the Mandatory Power, and the Zionists would not be masters in their "national
home," but only a sort of "paying guests." The confidence felt in Sir HERBERT SAMUEL'S absolute
impartiality as between Jews and Arabs was such that a high authority had prophesied that within
six months the High Commissioner would be equally unpopular with both races.

In the Commons Mr. BALDWIN explained that the Inland Revenue Authorities were taking all possible
steps to collect income-tax in Ireland despite the obstacles placed in their way by the local
authorities. Whereupon Sir MAURICE DOCKRELL, in his richest brogue, summarised the Irish situation
as follows: "Is not the difficulty that they do not know which horse to back?"

A Bill "to continue temporarily the office of Food Controller" was read a first time. The House
would, I think, be sorry to part with Mr. MCCURDY, whose replies to Questions are often much
to the point. He was asked this afternoon, for example, to give the salaries of three of his
officials, and this was his crisp reply: "The Director of Vegetable Supplies serves the Ministry
without remuneration; the post of Deputy-Director of Vegetable Supplies does not exist, and
that of Director of Fish Supplies has lapsed."

Mr. BONAR LAW shattered two elaborately-constructed mare's-nests when he announced that the
appointment of a British Ambassador to Berlin was made in pursuance of an agreement arrived
at in Boulogne on the initiative of the French Government, and that Lord D'ABERNON'S name was
suggested by the FOREIGN SECRETARY. I am not betraying any confidence when I add that it will
be no part of Lord D'ABERNON'S new duties to establish a Liquor Control Board on the Spree.

The Overseas Trade (Credits and Insurance) Bill was skilfully piloted through its Second Reading
by Mr. BRIDGEMAN. The House was much pleased to hear that only nine officials would be required
to administer the twenty-six millions involved, and that their salaries would not exceed seven
thousand pounds a year--although two of them were messengers.

But this temporary zeal for economy quickly evaporated when the Pre-War Pensions Bill made
its appearance. Member after Member got up to urge the extension of the Bill to this or that
deserving class, until Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS pointed out that, if their demands were acceded
to, the Bill, instead of costing some two millions a year, would involve three or four times
that amount.

Wednesday, June 30th.--The Lords discussed, in whispers suitable to the occasion, the Official
Secrets Bill. As originally drawn it provided that any person retaining without lawful authority
any official document should be guilty of a misdemeanour. But, thanks to the vigilance of Lords
BURNHAM and RIDDELL, this clause, under which every editor in Fleet Street might have found
himself in Holloway, was appreciably softened. Even so, the pursuit of "stunts" and "scoops"
will be a decidedly hazardous occupation.

The Press Lords were again on the alert when the Rents Bill came on, and objected to a clause
giving the LORD CHANCELLOR power to order proceedings under the measure to be held in private.
This time the LORD CHANCELLOR was less pliant, and plainly suggested that the newspapers were
actuated in this matter by regard for their circulations. Does he really suppose that the disputes
of landlords and tenants will supply such popular "copy" as to crowd out the confessions of
Cabinet Ministers?

Constant cross-examination on the Amritsar affair, involving the necessity of framing polite
replies to thinly-veiled suggestions that MONTAGU rhymes with O'DWYER, is making the SECRETARY
OF STATE FOR INDIA a little restive. The tone in which he expressed his hope that the promised
debate would not be much longer delayed distinctly suggested that his critics would then be
"for it."

Two days ago the MINISTER OF TRANSPORT expounded in a White Paper his elaborate plan for redistributing
and co-ordinating the activities of the railway companies--the North Eastern excepted--and
directing them all from an office in Whitehall. By the Ministry of Mines Bill it is proposed
to treat the mines in much the same way. Sir ERIC GEDDES' scheme has yet to run the gauntlet
of Parliamentary criticism. Sir ROBERT HORNE'S had its baptism of fire this afternoon, and
a pretty hot fire it was. Miners like Mr. BRACE cursed it because it did not go all the way
to Nationalisation; coal-owners like Sir CLIFFORD CORY, because it went too far in that direction.
The voice of the mere consumer, who only wants coal cheap and plentiful, was hardly heard.
The second reading was carried, but by a majority substantially less than the normal.

Thursday, July 1st.--Unfortunately the House of Lords does not contain a representative of
Sinn Fein and therefore had no opportunity of learning the opinion of the dominant party in
Ireland regarding Lord MONTEAGLE'S Dominion of Ireland Bill. Other Irish opinion, as expressed
by Lords DUNRAVEN and KILLANIN, was that it would probably cause the seething pot to boil over.
Lord ASHBOURNE made sundry observations in Erse, one of which was understood to be that "Ireland
could afford to wait." The Peers generally agreed with him, and, after hearing from the LORD
CHANCELLOR that of all the Irish proposals he had studied this contained the most elements
of danger, threw out the Bill without a division.

"A sinecure, whose holder is in receipt of a salary of five thousand pounds per annum," was
Mr. BONAR LAW'S description of his office as Lord Privy Seal. The House rewarded the modesty
of its hard-working Leader with laughter and cheers. None of his predecessors has excelled
him in courtesy and assiduity; as regards audibility there is room for improvement. Mr. LAW
rarely plays to the Gallery; but he might more often speak in its direction.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The funniest game in the world is chicket."--Provincial Paper.

We should like to hear more of this humorous pastime.

       *       *       *       *       *

A daily paper describes the contest at Henley for the "Silver Giblets." It is rumoured that
the Goose that laid the Golden Eggs has become a bimetallist.

       *       *       *       *       *

THREE EXCEPTIONAL MEN.

"If these men are types, how London has changed!" I said to myself. But can they be? I fear
not; I fear that "exceptional" is the only word to use. Yet it was very remarkable to meet
them all on the same day, Friday, June 25th.

The first was on an omnibus. A big man with a grey beard who was alone on the seat. Several
other seats had only one passenger; the rest--mine among them--were full. At Westminster came
up a youth and a girl who very obviously were lovers. Owing to the disposition of the seats
they had to separate, the girl subsiding into the place beside the big man immediately in front
of me. At first he said nothing, and then, just as we were passing the scaffolding of the Cenotaph,
he did something which proved him to be very much out of the common, a creature apart. Reaching
across and touching the youth on the shoulder, he said, "Let me change places with you. I expect
you young people would like to sit together."

That was exceptional, you will agree. He was right too; the young people did like to sit together.
I could see that. And the more the omnibus rocked and lurched the more they liked it.

The second exceptional man was a taxi-driver. I wanted to get to a certain office before it
shut, and there were very few minutes to do it in. The driver did his best, but we arrived
just too late; the door was locked.

"That's a bit of hard luck," he said. "But they're all so punctual closing now. It's the daylight-saving
does it. Makes people think of the open-air more than they used."

As I finished paying him--no small affair, with all the new supplements--he resumed.

"I'm sorry you had the journey for nothing," he said. "It's rough. But never mind--have something
on Comrade for the Grand Prix" (he pronounced "Prix" to rhyme with "fix") "in France on Sunday.
I'm told it's the goods. Then you won't mind about your bad luck this afternoon. Don't forget--
Comrade to win and one, two, three."

After this I must revise my opinion of taxi-drivers, which used not to be very high: especially
as Comrade differed from most racehorses of my acquaintance by coming in first.

The third man perhaps was more unexpected than exceptional. His unexpectedness took the form
not of benevolence but of culture. He is a vendor of newspapers. A pleasant old fellow with
a smiling weather-beaten face, grey moustache and a cloth cap, whom I have known for most of
the six years during which he has stood every afternoon except Sundays on the kerb between
a lamp-post and a letter-box at one of London's busiest corners. I have bought his papers and
referred to the weather all that time, but I never talked with him before. Why, I cannot say;
I suppose because the hour had not struck. On Friday, however, we had a little conversation,
all growing from the circumstance that while he was counting out change I noticed a fat volume
protruding from his coat pocket and asked him what it was.

It was his reply that qualified him to be numbered among Friday's elect. "That book?" he said--"that's
Barchester Towers."

I asked him if he read much.

He said he loved reading, and particularly stories. MARIE CORELLI, OUIDA, he read them all;
but TROLLOPE was his favourite. He liked novels in series; he liked to come on the same people
again.

"But there's another reason," he added, "why I like TROLLOPE. You see we were both at the Post
Office."

Some day soon I am going to try him with one of Mr. WALKLEY'S criticisms.

E.V.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From an article on the Lawn Tennis Championship, purporting to be written by Mlle. SUZANNE
LENGLEN:--

  "Quelle journées ils était!"
  "Mon dieu, comme était beau!"
  "C'est le partie le plus disputé."
  Sunday Paper.

We can only hope that the Entente is now strong enough to survive even these shocks.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PRISCILLA PAINTS.

"There was a lot of men in the boat," said Priscilla from behind the table, where she sat daubing
with little energetic grunts.

"Oh, there were, were there?" I answered from behind The Times.

Confident of arousing my enthusiasm in the end, she continued to issue tantalising bulletins
about the progress of the great work.

"It was an all-colour boat," she told me, "purple and yellow and green."

"A very nice kind of boat too," I agreed.

"And the biggest man of all hadn't got any body at all."

