Man, however, is the most helpless of all creatures in water, and with the exception of a few
proscribed pickpockets and swindlers, he is almost as helpless on land. This infirmity, or
difficulty of keeping above water, accounts for the crammed state of our prisons, fond as we
are of the element. On the great rivers of China, where thousands of people find it more convenient
to live in covered boats upon the water, than in houses on shore, the younger and male children
have a hollow ball of some light material attached constantly to their necks, so that in their
frequent falls overboard, they are not in danger. Had we not read this in a grave, philosophical
work, we should have thought it a joke upon poor humanity, or at best a piece of poetical justice,
and that the hollow ball, &c. represented the head--fools being oftener inheritors of good
fortune than their wiser companions. As the great secret in swimming is to keep the chest as
full of air as possible, perhaps the great art of living is to keep the head a vacuum, a state
"adapted to the meanest capacity." But had kind Nature supplied us with an air-bladder at the
neck, the heaviest of us might have floated to eternity, Leander's swimming across the Hellespont
no wonder at all, and the drags of the Humane Society be converted into halters for the suspension
and recovery of old offenders and small debts.

A wet day in London is what every gentleman who does not read, or does not recollect, Shakspeare,
calls a bore,[3] and every lady decides to be a nuisance. Abroad, everything is discomfiture;
at home all is fidget and uneasiness. What is called a smart shower, sweeps off a whole stand
of hackney-coaches in a few seconds, and leaves a few leathern conveniences called cabriolets,
so that your only alternative is that of being soaked to the skin, or pitched out, taken up,
bled, and carried home in "a state of insensibility." The Spanish proverb, "it never rains
but it pours" soon comes to pass, and every street is momentarily washed as clean as the most
diligent housemaid could desire. Every little shelter is crowded with solitary, houseless-looking
people, who seem employed in taking descriptions of each other for the Hue and Cry, or police
gazette.

Company, in such cases, usually increases the misery. Your wife, with a new dress, soon loses
her temper and its beauty; the children splash you and their little frilled continuations;
and ill-humour is the order of the day; for on such occasions you cannot slip into a tavern,
and follow Dean Swift's example:

  On rainy days alone I dine,
  Upon a chick, and pint of wine:
  On rainy days I dine alone,
  And pick my chicken to the bone.

Go you to the theatre in what is called a wet season, and perhaps after sitting through a dull
five-act tragedy and two farces, your first solicitude is about the weather, and as if to increase
the vexation, you cannot see the sky for a heavy portico or blind; then the ominous cry of
"carriage, your honour"--"what terrible event does this portend"--and you have to pick your
way, with your wife like Cinderella after the ball, through an avenue of link-boys and cadmen,[4]
and hear your name and address bawled out to all the thieves that happen to be present. Or,
perchance, the coachman, whose inside porosity is well indicated by his bundle of coats, as
Dr. Kitchiner says, is labouring under "the unwholesome effervescence of the hot and rebellious
liquors which have been taken to revive the flagging spirits," and like a sponge, absorbs liquids,
owing to the pressure of the surrounding air.

    [3] This expression is not the exclusive property of Oxford,
    Cambridge, or the Horse Guards. See Shakspeare's Henry VIII, where
    the Duke of Buckingham says of Wolsey, "He bores me with some
    trick;" like another great man, the Cardinal must have been a great
    bore.

    [4] Towards the close of the last opera season we heard a ludicrous
    mistake. One of these fellows bawled out "the Duke of Grafton's
    carriage;" "No," replied the gentleman, smiling, and correcting the
    officious cadman, who had caught at the noble euphony, "Mr.
    Crafter's."

That we are attached to wet weather, a single comparison with our neighbours will abundantly
prove. A Frenchman seldom stirs abroad without his parapluie; notwithstanding he is, compared
with an Englishman, an al fresco animal, eating, drinking, dancing, reading, and seeing plays--all
out of doors. A shower is more effectual in clearing the streets of Paris than those of London.
People flock into cafés, the arcades of the Palais Royal, and splendid covered passages; and
as soon as the rain ceases, scores of planks are thrown across the gutters in the centre of
the streets, which species of pontooning is rewarded by the sous and centimes of the passengers.
In Switzerland too, where the annual fall of rain is 40 inches, the streets are always washed
clean, an effect which is admirably represented in the view of Unterseen, now exhibiting at
the Diorama. But in Peru, the Andes intercept the clouds, and the constant heat over sandy
deserts prevents clouds from forming, so that there is no rain. Here it never shines but it burns.

Wet-weather in the country is, however, a still greater infliction upon the sensitive nerves.
There is no club-house, coffee-room, billiard-room, or theatre, to slip into; and if caught
in a shower you must content yourself with the arcades of Nature, beneath which you enjoy the
unwished-for luxury of a shower bath. Poor Nature is drenched and drowned; perhaps never better
described than by that inveterate bard of Cockaigne, Captain Morris:

  Oh! it settles the stomach when nothing is seen
  But an ass on a common, or goose on a green.

We were once overtaken by such weather in a pedestrian tour through the Isle of Wight, when
just then about to leave Niton for a geological excursion to the Needles. Reader, if you remember,
the Sandrock Hotel is one of the most rural establishments in the island. Think of our being
shut up there for six hours, with a thin duodecimo guide of less than 100 pages, which some
mischievous fellow had made incomplete. How often did we read and re-read every line, and trace
every road in the little map. At length we set off on our return to Newport. The rain partially
ceased, and we were attracted out of the road to Luttrell's Tower, whence we were compelled
to seek shelter in a miserable public-house in a village about three miles distant. No spare
bed, a wretched smoky fire; and hard beer, and poor cheese, called Isle of Wight rock, were
all the accommodation our host could provide. His parlour was just painted; but half-a-dozen
sectarian books and an ill-toned flute amused us for an hour; then we again started, in harder
rain than ever, for Newport. Compelled to halt twice, we saw some deplorable scenes of cottage
misery, almost enough to put us out of conceit of rusticity, till after crossing a bleak, dreary
heath, we espied the distant light of Newport. Never had we beheld gas light with such ecstasy,
not even on the first lighting of St. James's Park. It was the eve of the Cowes' regatta, and
the town was full; but our luggage was there, and we were secure. A delicious supper at the
Bugle, and liberal outpourings of Newport ale, at length put us in good humour with our misfortunes;
but on the following morning we hastened on to Ryde, and thus passed by steam to Portsmouth;
having resolved to defer our geological expedition to that day twelve months. Perhaps we may
again touch on this little journey. We have done for the present, lest our number should interrupt
the enjoyment of any of the thousand pedestrians who are at this moment tracking

  The slow ascending hill, the lofty wood
  That mantles o'er its brow.

or coasting the castled shores and romantic cliffs of Vectis, or the Isle of Wight.

PHILO.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS

DUELS IN FRANCE.

Duels had at one time become so frequent in France as to require particular enactments for
their prevention; as, for example, when the debt about which any dispute occurred did not amount
to five-pence. The regulation of the mode in which the barbarous custom might be maintained
had engaged the attention of several of the French kings. In 1205, Philip Augustus restricted
the length of the club, with which single combat was then pursued, to three feet; and in 1260,
Saint Louis abolished the practice of deciding civil matters by duelling. With the revival
of literature and of the arts, national manners became ameliorated, and duels necessarily declined.
It was still, however, not unusual for the French to promote or to behold those single combats
over which the pages of romance have thrown a delusive charm, and which were, in early times,
hallowed, in the opinion of the vulgar, by their accompanying superstitious ceremonies. When
any quarrel had been referred to this mode of decision, the parties met on the appointed day,
and frequently in an open space, overshadowed by the walls of a convent, which thus lent its
sanction to the bloody scene. From day-break the people were generally employed in erecting
scaffolds and stages, and in placing themselves upon the towers and ramparts of the adjacent
buildings. About noon, the cavalcade was usually seen to arrive at the door of the lists; then
the herald cried, "Let the appellant appear," and his summons was answered by the entrance
of the challenger, armed cap-a-pie, the escutcheon suspended from his neck, his visor lowered,
and an image of some national saint in his hand. He was allowed to pass within the lists, and
conducted to his tent. The accused person likewise appeared, and was led in the same manner
to his tent. Then the herald, in his robe embroidered with fleur-de-lis, advanced to the centre
of the lists, and exclaimed, "Oyez, oyez! lords, knights, squires, people of all condition,
our sovereign lord, by the grace of God, King of France, forbids you, on pain of death or confiscation
of goods, either to cry out, to speak, to cough, to spit, or to make signs." During a profound
silence, in which nothing but the murmurs of the unconscious streamlet, or the chirping of
birds might be heard, the combatants quitted their tents, to take individually the two first
oaths. When the third oath was to be administered, it was customary for them to meet, and for
the marshal to take the right hand of each and to place it on the cross. Then the functions
of the priest began, and the usual address, endeavouring to conciliate the angry passions of
the champions, and to remind them of their common dependence on the Supreme Being, may have
tended to benefit the bystanders, although it generally failed of its effect with the combatants.

If the parties persisted, the last oath was administered. The combatants were obliged to swear
solemnly that they had neither about them nor their horses, stone, nor herb, nor charm, nor
invocation; and that they would fight only with their bodily strength, their weapons, and their
horses. The crucifix and breviary were then presented to them to kiss, the parties retired
into their tents, the heralds uttering their last admonition to exertion and courage, and the
challengers rushed forth from their tents, which were immediately dragged from within the lists.
Then the marshal of the field having cried out, "Let them pass, let them pass," the seconds
retired. The combatants instantly mounted their horses, and the contest commenced.--Foreign Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUPERSTITION RELATING TO BEES.

On further inquiry, it has been found that the superstitious practice, formerly mentioned,[1]
of informing the bees of a death that takes place in a family, is very well known, and still
prevails among the lower orders in this country. The disastrous consequence to be apprehended
from noncompliance with this strange custom is not (as before stated) that the bees will desert
the hive, but that they will dwindle and die. The manner of communicating the intelligence
to the little community, with due form and ceremony, is this: to take the key of the house,
and knock with it three times against the hive, telling the inmates, at the same time, that
their master or mistress, &c., (as the case may be,) is dead!

    [1] See page 75.

Mr. Loudon says, when in Bedfordshire lately, "we were informed of an old man who sung a psalm
last year in front of some hives which were not doing well, but which he said would thrive
in consequence of that ceremony. Our informant could not state whether this was a local or
individual superstition."--Magazine of Natural History.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER

LAW REFORMS.

We copy the following eloquent and impassioned paragraph from the last Edinburgh Review:--

"Thanks unto our ancestors, there is now no Star-chamber before whom may be summoned either
the scholar, whose learning offends the bishops, by disproving incidentally the divine nature
of tithes, or the counsellor, who gives his client an opinion against some assumed prerogative.
There is no High Commission Court to throw into a gaol until his dying day, at the instigation
of a Bancroft, the bencher who shall move for the discharge of an English subject from imprisonment
contrary to law. It is no longer the duty of a privy councillor to seize the suspected volumes
of an antiquarian, or plunder the papers of an ex-chief justice, whilst lying on his death-bed.
Government licensers of the press are gone, whose infamous perversion of the writings of other
lawyers will cause no future Hale to leave behind him orders expressly prohibiting the posthumous
publication of his legal MSS., lest the sanctity of his name should be abused, to the destruction
of those laws, of which he had been long the venerable and living image. An advocate of the
present day need not absolutely withdraw (as Sir Thomas More is reported to have prudently
done for a time) from his profession, because the crown had taken umbrage at his discharge
of a public duty. It is, however, flattery and self-delusion to imagine that the lust of power
and the weaknesses of human nature have been put down by the Bill of Rights, and that our forefathers
have left nothing to be done by their descendants. The violence of former times is indeed no
longer practicable; but the spirit which led to these excesses can never die; it changes its
aspect and its instruments with circumstances, and takes the shape and character of its age.
The risks and the temptations of the profession at the present day are quite as dangerous to
its usefulness, its dignity, and its virtue, as the shears and branding-irons that frightened
every barrister from signing Prynne's defence, or the writ that sent Maynard to the Tower.
The public has a deep, an incalculable interest in the independence and fearless honour of
its lawyers. In a system so complicated as ours, every thing must be taken at their word almost
on trust; and proud as we, for the most part, justly are of the unsuspectedness of our judges,
their integrity and manliness of mind are, of course, involved in that of the body out of which
they must be chosen. There is not a man living whose life, liberty, and honour may not depend
on the resoluteness as well as capacity of those by whom, when all may be at stake, he must
be both advised and represented in a court of justice."

Our readers will easily recognise the great events in the history of the law in England, to
which the reviewer alludes. Seldom have we read a more masterly page; it would even form an
excellent rider to Mr. Brougham's recent speech on the same subject.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUPPERS.

It is a mere mistake to condemn suppers. All the inferior animals stuff immediately previous
to sleeping; and why not man, whose stomach is so much smaller, more delicate, and more exquisite
a piece of machinery? Besides, it is a well-known fact, that a sound human stomach acts upon
a well-drest dish, with nearly the power of an eight-horse steam-engine; and this being the
case, good heavens! why should one be afraid of a few trifling turkey-legs, a bottle of Barclay's
brown-stout, a Welsh rabbit, brandy and water, and a few more such fooleries? We appeal to
the common sense of our readers and of the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

TEA

The consumption of tea is increasing every year. In 1823, the importation was 24,000,000 lb.;
in 1826 it was 30,000,000 lb.; and in the year ending Jan. 5, 1828, 39,746,147 lb.--Oriental
Herald.

       *       *       *       *       *

POETS NOT BOTANISTS.

Addison, who was probably unacquainted with the flower described by Virgil, represents the
Italian aster as a purple bush, with yellow flowers, instead of telling us that the flower
had a yellow disk and purple rays.

Virgil, Georgic iv.

  The flower Itself is of a golden hue,
  The leaves inclining to a darker blue;
  The leaves shoot thick about the root, and grow
  Into a bush, and shade the turf below.

Addison.

Dryden falls into the same error:--

  A flower there is that grows in meadow ground,
  Aurelius called, and easy to be found;
  For from one root the rising stem bestows
  A wood of leaves and violet purple boughs.
  The flower itself is glorious to behold,
  And shines on altars like refulgent gold.

 Mag. Nat. History

       *       *       *       *       *

RIVAL SINGERS.

In 1726-7, there was a sharp warfare in London between two opera singers, La Faustina and La
Cuzzoni, and their partizans. It went so far that young ladies dressed themselves a la Faustina
and a la Cuzzoni. We need not wonder, therefore, at the hair à la Sontag in our days, or gentleman's
whiskers à la Jocko.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHARKS.

In a recent voyage from Bombay to the Persian Gulf, an Arab sailor of a crew, who was the stoutest
and strongest man in the ship on leaving Bombay, pined away by disease, and was committed to
the deep by his Arab comrades on board, with greater feeling and solemnity than is usual among
Indian sailors, and with the accustomed ceremonies and prayers of the Mohamedan religion. The
smell of the dead body attracted several sharks round the ship, one of which, eight feet in
length, was harpooned and hauled on board.--Oriental Herald.

       *       *       *       *       *

JONAH'S "WHALE."

At a late meeting of the Wernerian Society at Edinburgh, the Rev. Dr. Scot read a paper on
the great fish that swallowed up Jonah, showing that it could not be a whale, as often supposed,
but was probably a white shark.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSHROOMS.

The large horse-mushroom, except for catsup, should be very cautiously eaten. In wet seasons,
or if produced on wet ground, it is very deleterious, if used in any great quantity.--Mag.
Nat. Hist.

       *       *       *       *       *

USEFUL KNOWLEDGE.

The sweat of the brow is not favourable to the operations of the brain; and the leisure which
follows the daily labour of the peasant and manufacturer, will, even if no other demands are
made upon it, afford but little scope for the over acquisition of knowledge. Long will it be
ere the English husbandman renounces for study the pleasures of his weekly holiday, and long
may it be ere the Scottish peasant be withdrawn by a thirst for knowledge from the duties of
his Sabbath, and from the simple rights of his morning and evening sacrifice.--Foreign Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. CANNING.

A beautiful medal in memory of this celebrated statesman, has lately been struck at Paris,
under the direction of M. Girard.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATURE AND ART.

It is curious enough that people decorate their chimney-pieces with imitations of beautiful
fruits, while they seem to think nothing at all of the originals hanging upon the trees, with
all the elegant accompaniments of flourishing branches, buds, and leaves--Cobbet's English
Gardener.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KING OF PRUSSIA

Lives in comparative retirement, in a small palace fitted up with the greatest simplicity,
and his bed is really not better than that usually allotted to a domestic in England. His study
is quite that of an official man of business. He has a large map of his own dominions; and
in each town where troops are stationed he fixes a common pin, and on the head of the pin is
a small bit of card, on which are written the names of the regiments, their numbers, and commanding
officers, in the town. He thus, at any moment, can see the disposition of his immense army,
which is very essential to such a government as Prussia, it being a mild despotic military
system. He has a most excellent modern map of the Turkish provinces in Europe, and upon this
is marked out every thing that can interest a military man. A number of pins, with green heads,
point out the positions of the Russian army; and in the same manner, with red-and-white-headed
pins, he distinguishes the stations of the different kinds of troops of the Turkish host.--Literary
Gazette.

THE OPERA OF "OTELLO."

Othello is altogether unsuited to the lyrical drama, and supposing the contrary, Rossini, of
all composers, was the most unfit to treat such a subject in music. The catastrophe in the
English tragedy is necessary; we see it from the beginning as through a long and gloomy vista.
We weep, or shudder, we draw a long sigh of despair, and feel that it could not have been otherwise.
But in the opera, Othello is a ruffian, without excuse for his crime. We have suddenly a beautiful
woman running distracted about the stage to a symphony--and a very noisy symphony--of violins,
and butchered before our eyes to an allegro movement.--Foreign Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH NOVELS.

When last in Paris we were curious to know wherefore M. Jouy had written such exceptionable
and abominable stuff as his last novel; and the gentleman to whom we addressed ourselves, answered,
in a light lively vein; "Oh! M. Jouy has a name, and the booksellers pay well; and as they
are very stupid, and depend on names for the sale of their books, he wrote down the first matter
that came into his head."--Foreign Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMBER.

Polangen, the frontier town of Russia, is famous for its trade in amber. This substance is
found by the inhabitants on the coast, between Polangen and Pillau, either loosely on the shore,
on which it has been thrown by the strong north and westerly winds, or in small hillocks of
sand near the sea, where it is found in regular strata. The quantity found yearly in this manner,
and on this small extent of coast, besides what little is sometimes discovered in beds of pit
coal in the interior of the country, is said to amount to from 150 to 200 tons, yielding a
revenue to the government of Prussia of about 100,000 francs. As amber is much less in vogue
in Western Europe than in former times, the best pieces, which are very transparent, and frequently
weigh as much as three ounces, are sent to Turkey and Persia, for the heads of their expensive
pipes and hookahs. Very few trinkets are now sold for ornaments to ladies' dresses; and the
great bulk of amber annually found is converted into a species of scented spirits and oil,
which are much esteemed for the composition of delicate varnish. In the rough state, amber
is sold by the ton, and forms an object of export trade from Memel and Konigsberg.--Granville's
Travels in Russia.

       *       *       *       *       *

The head of the late Dr. Gall has been taken off agreeably to his wishes, and dissected and
dried for the benefit of science.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL TALENT.

All the principal Italian composers were in flower about the age of twenty-five. There is scarcely
an instance of a musician producing his chef-d'oeuvre after the age of thirty. Rossini was
not twenty when he composed his Tancredi, and his Italiana in Algieri.

       *       *       *       *       *

The most important principle perhaps in life is to have a pursuit--a useful one if possible,
and at all events an innocent one. The unripe fruit tree of knowledge is, I believe, always
bitter or sour; and scepticism and discontent--sickness of the mind--are often the results
of devouring it.--Sir Humphry Davy.

       *       *       *       *       *

COFFIN OF KING DUNCAN.

A coffin has been discovered among the ruins of Elgin cathedral, supposed to be that of the
royal victim of Macbeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN IMPERIAL ENCORE.

When Cimarosa's opera of Matrimonio Segreto was performed before the Emperor Joseph, he invited
all the singers to a banquet, and then in a fit of enthusiasm, sent them all back to the theatre
to play and sing the whole opera over again!--Foreign Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dinner is a corruption of decimer, from decimheure, or the French repast de dix-heure. Supper
from souper, from the custom of providing soup for that occasion.

       *       *       *       *       *

LARKS.

We have heard much of Dunstable larks but the enthusiasm with which gourmets speak of these
tit-bits of luxury, is far exceeded by the Germans, who travel to Leipsic from a distance of
many hundred miles, merely to eat a dinner of larks, and then return contented and peaceful
to their families. So great is the slaughter of this bird at the Leipsic fair, that half a
million are annually devoured, principally by the booksellers frequenting the city. What is
the favourite bird at the coffee-house dinners of our friends in Paternoster Row?

       *       *       *       *       *

PAINTING CATS.

Gottfried Mind, a celebrated Swiss painter, was called the Cat-Raphael, from the excellence
with which he painted that animal. This peculiar talent was discovered and awakened by chance.
At the time when Freudenberger was painting that since-published picture of the peasant cleaving
wood before his cottage, with his wife sitting by, and feeding her child with pap out of a
pot, round which a cat is prowling, Mind cast a broad stare on the sketch of this last figure,
and said in his rugged, laconic way, "That is no cat!" Freudenberger asked, with a smile, whether
Mind thought he could do it better. Mind offered to try; went into a corner, and drew the cat,
which Freudenberger liked so much that he made his new pupil finish it out, and the master
copied the scholar's work--for it is Mind's cat that is engraven in Freudenberger's plate.
Imitations of Mind's cats are already common in the windows of printsellers.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAY-WRITING.

