Fathers, whether their children are beautiful or not, are often desirous of preserving an image
of them during their golden age, when time, like the summer sun, is only ripening the fruit
he will afterwards wither, and cause to drop from the bough. Bernardo was possessed by this
desire; and as he never dreamed that any pencil in Arezzo, but his own, could reproduce upon
canvass the lovely countenance of Beatrice, he spent, as from his opulence he could now afford
to do, a considerable portion of his time in painting her portrait. The girl, however, who
was not greatly addicted to meditation and could not read, for books had not then come into
fashion, grew melancholy during these long sittings, and her father perceived it. At first
no remedy presented itself. He endeavoured, indeed, to converse with her a little in his uncouth
way; but he had not cultivated the art of talking, and quickly exhausted his topics. He next
introduced his son Bernardo, the junior of Beatrice by one year, whose efforts at creating
amusement, being constrained and unnatural, for he came against his will, were little more
successful than his own. At length the idea of engaging the services of his lodger, with whom
he had observed that Beatrice sometimes laughed and chatted of an evening, occurred to him,
and he forthwith mentioned the subject to Spinello. The young man entertained a very strong
affection for Bernardo, who, if he wanted genius, was far from being destitute of amiable and
endearing qualities; and therefore, notwithstanding that he felt it would greatly interfere
with his studies, and trench upon his time, he immediately determined to comply with the old
man's desires.

The next morning saw Spinello installed in his new office. Beatrice was seated like a statue
in an antique chair with her arms crossed upon her bosom, her eyes fixed upon vacancy, and
her features screwed in spite of herself, into an expression of weariness and impatience. By
degrees, however, as Spinello conversed with her, now of one trifle, then of another, her eyes
involuntarily wandered to that portion of the room in which the young dialectician sat involved
in shadow, and exerting all his eloquence and ingenuity to awaken her attention. The experiment
succeeded. Spinello was entreated to be present the next day, the day following, and, in fact,
every day, until the portrait was completed, or, at least, nearly so. He gazed, as I have said,
upon the face of Beatrice, and would sometimes spend a moment in examining the inanimate representation
of it, and in instituting a comparison between it and the original; until one day forgetting
in his idolatry of loveliness the respect due to old age, he snatched the pencil from the hand
of Bernardo, and with singular ardour and impatience exclaimed--"Let me finish it!" Without
uttering a word, the old man, awed by the vehemence of his manner, yielded up the pencil; and
Spinello proceeded, as if in a dream, to embody upon the canvass the idea of beauty which inhabited
his soul.

Spinello, thus entrapped by his own enthusiasm, could do no other than proceed with the portrait.
Though infinitely desirous not to wound the feelings of Daddi, he perceived at once that it
would be necessary to recast the whole design of the piece to change the style of colouring--in
a word, to paint a new picture. Daddi, who loved his child still more than his art, and wished
to preserve and transmit to posterity a likeness of her, by whomsoever painted, was not offended,
though he was a little hurt, by this freedom, and without murmur or objection allowed Spinello
to accomplish his undertaking in whatever manner he pleased. The young man went to work with
a satisfaction and alacrity he had never before experienced; and the image of Beatrice, passing
into his soul, to be thence reflected, as from one mirror upon another, on the canvass, shed
the light of Paradise over his fancy--as the musk-deer perfumes the thicket in which it slumbers.

Though this picture is greatly celebrated in Italy, and especially at Arezzo, I shall not pause
to describe it minutely. Beatrice is represented as reclining, in a chaste and thoughtful attitude,
on an antique couch at the foot of a pillar: flowers and flowering shrubs appear to shed their
perfume around; and a spreading tree, with a vine loaded with grapes climbing up its trunk
and branches, stretches over her. In the back ground the sky only, and a few dusky trees, appear.
The design, it will be perceived is meagre enough, but the execution is incomparably beautiful;
and it may be safely affirmed, that if immortality upon earth was all that Bernardo coveted
for his child, his prayer has been granted. A thousand pens have been employed in celebrating
this picture, and Italian literature must perish ere Beatrice be forgotten.

I shall not pretend to say by what means, since it was not by words, Spinello discovered that
he was beloved by Beatrice: but assuredly the discovery gave him considerable pain. The form
of Beatrice would rise up both in his sleeping and waking dreams before his fancy, among his
most cherished associations; and her features, although he observed it not, mingled themselves,
as it were, with the elements of every picture he painted.

While this was the state of his mind and feelings, Spinello was engaged to paint his famous
picture of the "Fall of the Angels," for the church of St. Angelo at Arezzo. The design of
this great work, which has been celebrated by Vasari, Moderni, and other writers on Italian
art, was at once magnificent and original; and the countenance and figure of Lucifer, upon
which the artist appeared to have concentrated all the rays, as it were, of his genius, were
conceived in a manner fearfully sublime. Spinello disdained the vulgar method of binding together,
by an arbitrary link, all the attributes of ugliness, which artists have generally pursued
when they would represent the greatest of the fallen angels; and, after meditating long upon
the best mode of embodying the principle of evil, determined to clothe it with a certain form
of beauty, though of a kind not calculated to delight, but on the contrary to awaken in the
soul all those feelings of uneasiness, anxiety, apprehension and terror, which usually slumber
in the abysses of our nature, and are disturbed only on very extraordinary occasions.

From the moment in which he began to delineate this miraculous figure, a singular change seemed
to have taken place in his whole nature. His imagination, like a sea put in motion by the wind,
appeared to be in perpetual agitation. He was restless and uneasy when any other occupation
kept him away from his picture. As his health was good, and his frame vigorous though susceptible,
this state of excitement was at first rather pleasing than otherwise. He indulged himself,
therefore, with those agitating visions, as they may be called, which the contemplation or
recollection of his Lucifer called up before his mind. At length, however, the idea of the
mighty fallen angel, whose form he had delighted to clothe with terror and sublimity, began
to present itself under a new character to his mind; and instead of being a subject to be fondled,
as it were, and caressed by the imagination, seemed as it approached maturity to manifest certain
mysterious qualities, which, engendered terror and apprehension rather than delight.

Spinello's studio now began to be a place of torture to him, and he turned his eyes towards
the amusements of the world, which he had hitherto shunned and scorned. He frequented the society
of other young artists, with whom he often strolled into the woods, or rather groves, for which
this portion of Etruria was always remarkable, sometimes traversing or descending the Val d'Arno,
at others roaming about the ruins, or visiting the site of Pliny's Tuscan Villa. On returning
in high spirits from one of these excursions, he learned by the letter of a friend that the
object of his first love had proved unfaithful, and been united in marriage to another. This
event, though it had no connexion whatever with his former cause of uneasiness, threw a new
gloom over his imagination, in the midst of which the figure of Lucifer, dilating, like an
image in the mists of the desert, to superhuman dimensions, stood up to scare and torment him
afresh.

The unhappy young man, wounded in his feelings, and haunted by the shadow of his own idea,
now fled to Beatrice for relief; and her tone of thinking, which had in it something of the
Stoic cast, united with a manner at once playful and dignified, delighted him exceedingly.
They conversed together on many occasions for whole hours; and the trains of thought which
at such times swept like glorious pageants through his mind, followed too rapidly to allow
of the existence of melancholy. Sometimes, indeed, Spinello would observe that when he gazed
in rapture, rather than in passion, upon the face of Beatrice, a certain something, like a
ray of light, or a spark of fire fallen upon an altar, would penetrate his soul, and kindle
a sudden and fierce pain; but it usually passed quickly away, and was forgotten. By degrees,
however, its recurrence became more frequent, and the pain it inflicted more intense; and consequently
there soon mingled a considerable portion of uneasiness in his intercourse with his fair and
beautiful friend.

At length the picture was completed, and placed in the church of St. Angelo, above the altar;
and Spinello felt relieved, as if the weight of the whole universe had been removed from his
spirit. He now chatted with Bernardo, or with his pupil, and the other young artists of Arezzo;
or enjoyed the passionate and almost solemn converse of Beatrice, who from a lively, laughing
girl, had now been transformed, by some hidden process of nature, into a lofty-minded, commanding
woman.

His constant and almost devotional application to his great picture had considerably shattered
his nerves, and he felt his natural susceptibility so much increased, that, although it was
now summer, the horrible idea which had so long haunted him soon returned; and a cloud spread
itself over his imagination, which all the hurricanes that vex the ocean could not have blown
away. To dissipate this unaccountable sadness, he wandered forth alone, or with Beatrice, over
the sunny fields; but he felt, as he wandered, that his heart was a fountain which sent forth
two streams,--the one cool, delicious, healing, as the rivers of Paradise; the other dark,
bitter, and burning, like the waters of hell; and they gushed forth alternately, accordingly
as his thoughts communicated with the recollection of his own picture, or with the landscapes
around him, painted in celestial colours by the hand of God. Beatrice, who walked by his side,
was herself a mystery. To feel the pressure of her hand, to hear her breathe, to listen to
the music of her voice, was a bliss unspeakable; and there was a sovereign beauty in her countenance
which seemed to cast forth rays of joy and gladness upon every thing around her, as the sun
lights up with smiles the cool waves of the morning. Yet Spinello felt that as often as this
fragment of Paradise, as it might justly be termed, was turned towards him, lightnings appeared
to gleam from it which dismayed and withered his soul. At such moments a piercing cold darted
through his frame; and when it passed away, a tremor and shivering succeeded, which withered
all his energies. In fact, whether in the society of Beatrice or not, Spinello now found that
the terrible form of Lucifer, which his genius had created, was ever present with him, standing,
as it were, like a mighty shadow, between him and the external world, and eclipsing the glory
of earth and heaven.

The summer passed away in this manner, and autumn drew near; and as the glories of the sun
became dimmer, the figure of Lucifer appeared to increase in dimensions and brilliancy, and
acquired more power over the imagination of Spinello. Tortured by an enemy who appeared to
have passed by some dreadful process into the very core of his being, Spinello felt his energies
and his health departing from him; while his imagination, into which every faculty of his mind
appeared to be fast melting, increased in force and volume, as a wintry torrent is increased
by the waters of every neighbouring streamlet. At length it occurred to him that perhaps this
demon of his fancy, which he was well convinced was an unreal phantom, yet could not banish,
might possess no resemblance to the figure his pencil had produced; and might disappear, or
at least be reduced to the condition of ordinary ideas, by a comparison with the bodily representative
of his original conception. This thought presented itself to his mind one night in October,
as he lay tossing about in sleepless agony upon his bed. He instantly started up, dressed,
threw on his cloke, which the coolness of the night, windy and dark, rendered necessary; and
seizing a lighted torch, issued forth towards the church.

The holy edifice stood in those days, when Arezzo was but a small place, at some little distance
from the dwellings of the citizens, and was surrounded by a thick grove of sycamores mingled
with pine trees. The townsfolk had long retired to rest, and the streets were empty and desolate.
Not even the shadow of a monk flitted by him as he passed, with his torch flaring in the wind,
and casting an awful and almost magical light upon the houses, painted, according to the fashion
of the time and country, in broad stripes of deep red and white. As he approached the church,
the wind, whistling through the pine branches, which swung to and fro, and flapped against
each other, like the wings of the fabled Simoorg, or of some mighty demon struggling with the
blast, sounded like numerous voices issuing from the black roof of clouds above him, and shrieking
as he passed. At length he entered the church, which in those times stood open day and night
to the piety of the people, and drew near the altar. Upon the walls on both sides were suspended
rude images of the Saviour carved in wood, and blackened by time, and numerous antique scripture
pieces by Giotto, Cimabue, and other fathers of the art, which seemed to start into momentary
existence as Spinello's torch cast its red light upon them. At every step, his heart beat violently
against his side, and appeared as if it would mount into his throat and choke him. But his
courage did not fail, and he ascended the Mosaic steps of the chancel, and, with his torch
in one hand, climbed up upon the altar and lifted his eyes towards the picture. As he stood
on tip-toe on the altar and passed his torch along the wall, the mighty ranks of the fallen
angels, in headlong flight before the thunderbolts of heaven, seemed to emerge from the darkness,
with the awful form of Lucifer in the extreme rear reluctantly yielding even to Omnipotence
itself, while blasting lightnings played about his brow and eyes, that flashed with the fires
of inextinguishable fury. On first casting his eyes over his picture, a feeling of self-complacency
and pride stole over the soul of the artist. But as he continued to gaze with a kind of idolatry
at the work of his own hands, his imagination became excited by degrees, and life appeared
to be infused into the figure of the gigantic demon. In spite of the singular beauty of the
features, which looked like those of an archangel, the face before him appeared to be but a
mask, beneath which all the passions of hell were struggling, gnawing, and stinging, and devouring
the heart of their possessor. "The baleful eyes, that witnessed huge affliction and dismay,"
appeared to flame in the obscure light, like the fabled carbuncle of the Kaianian king; and
the mighty limbs seemed to make an effort to free themselves from the canvass, and spring forth
upon the floor of God's temple. As this idea rushed upon the mind of Spinello, the wind, moaning
through the aisles, and multiplied by the echoes, sounded like the voices of wailing and desolation,
which, the imagination may suppose, mingled in dismal concert when the spirits fell from heaven;
and the artist, overpowered by the crowd of horrors which fastened like hungry vultures upon
his fancy, sprang from the altar, and, stumbling in his haste, extinguished his torch. His
imagination, now wrought up to a frenzied pitch by the awful scene, distinguished in every
moan of the blast the shrieks of a fallen spirit; and the wind, as if to increase his misery,
raised its voice and swept through the sacred building with tremendous power, howling, and
shrieking, and gibbering as it passed. The demoniac excitement of the moment now became too
great to be endured. Spinello sunk upon the ground, struck his forehead against an angle of
the altar, and fainted away. How long he remained in this condition, he could never conjecture;
but when he recovered his senses, all around him appeared like the illusion of a dream. The
wind had died away, the darkness had disappeared, the moon had risen, and was now throwing
in its mild and beautiful light through the long windows upon the checkered pavement; and,
rising from the ground, he crawled out of the church and reached his lodgings.

The next day he was too unwell to leave his bed; and Bernardo, with his whole family, who loved
the young man, and were anxious to discover and remove the cause of his misery, came to see
and console him. Beatrice was the first who entered; and when Spinello heard the sound of her
footsteps, which he could most accurately distinguish, a beam of joy visited his heart, a tear
of delight trembled in his eye, and he blessed her fervently. When he lifted his eyes to her
countenance, however, the vision of the preceding night seemed to be renewed, and the hated
form of Lucifer, with all his infernal legions, swept before his fancy. Ignorant of what was
passing through his mind, and with a heart yearning towards him with more than a sister's love,
Beatrice approached his bed; and, kneeling down beside it, took hold of his hand which was
stretched out languidly towards her. She felt that it was burning with fever, and that his
whole frame was at that moment agitated in a fearful manner. He spoke not a word; but turned
away his face, as if by a desperate effort to recover his composure, while he held her hand
with a convulsive grasp. She saw his chest heave, and his eyes roll awfully, as he gradually
turned towards her. And at length, finding it was vain to struggle any longer to conceal his
feelings, he threw himself upon his face, pressed her trembling hand to his lips, and burst
into a passionate and uncontrollable flood of tears. Beatrice, surprised and overcome by the
scene, hid her own face in the clothes and wept with him; while her father, her mother, and
the whole family, stood motionless upon the floor of the apartment, transfixed with sorrow
and oblivious of every other consideration.

By degrees the young man recovered his composure, as persons generally do after shedding tears,
and his heart seemed to be relieved. Beatrice also experienced the same change; and her father,
a humane and compassionate old man, supposing that love might have some share in the misery
of his lodger, after motioning his whole family to leave the room, drew near the bed, and inquired
of Spinello whether his affection for Beatrice had any share in his present unhappiness; and
whether her hand, for her heart he perceived was already his, would make any change in the
state of his mind. At this new proof of the old man's love, Spinello could scarcely contain
himself. For the moment Lucifer left him, while visions of delight and joy painted themselves
upon his fancy. To reveal to Bernardo, however, or to any other human being, the real cause
of his misery, would, he was fully persuaded, expose him to the suspicion of insanity. His
expressions of gratitude, though few and brief, were vehement and sincere; and his mind becoming
wholly occupied with this new idea, his fever soon left him; and in a few days he was again
able to breathe the balmy air, with his future bride by his side.

His health still appeared, however, to be but feeble; and the benefit of change of residence
being understood in those times as well as in our own, Spinello was counselled to remove for
a season to some sea-port town on the coast of Naples. Through mere chance, and not from any
classical predilection, he chose Gaëta, anciently Cajeta, whither Laelius and Scipio used to
retire from the politics of Rome, to amuse themselves with picking up shells upon the sand.
To render the excursion more pleasant and profitable, Bernardo determined to accompany his
intended son-in-law, and to make Beatrice also a partner of the journey; and their preparations
being soon completed, they departed in good spirits, and in due time arrived at the place of
their destination.

Lodgings were taken in the neighbourhood of the town, near the beach; and the lovers, now comparatively
happy, daily strolled together along the margin of the Tyrrhene sea, which, rolling its blue
waves in tranquil succession towards the shore, broke in soft murmurs at their feet.

They had now been some months at Gaëta, when Beatrice was suddenly called home by her mother,
who had been seized with a dangerous illness. Her father of course accompanied her on her return:
but Spinello, in spite of his entreaties and remonstrances, was compelled to remain where he
was; as Beatrice, who feared that Arezzo might recall all his gloomy ideas, peremptorily insisted
that he should never return, but settle at Gaëta, or remove to Naples. He therefore submitted,
but with a heavy heart; and saw his guardians, as it were, depart from him, and leave him to
himself.

What he seemed to fear when they left him, soon came to pass. With solitude Lucifer returned;
and he now presented himself so frequently, and in such awful colours to Spinello's mind, that
the little fabric of health which had been reared with so much care, was quickly thrown down,
while visions of horror swept over the ruins. His health, which now declined more rapidly than
ever, was soon irrecoverably destroyed; his frame wasted visibly away; and as his body grew
weaker, his visions increased in horror, until at length the intellect tottered upon its basis,
and almost gave way beneath their intolerable pressure. In a few weeks he was shrunk to a skeleton,
while his eyes shone with preternatural brilliancy; so that the people of the house where he
lodged, were terrified at his appearance and avoided his looks. For his own part, he was scarcely
conscious, of the existence of the external world, every thing around him appearing like the
creations of a dream--mere shadows with whom he could have no sympathy. There seemed, in fact,
to be but two beings in the universe--himself and Lucifer; and he felt that he was engaged
in a struggle which must terminate the existence of the one or the other. When he succeeded
in freeing himself for a moment from the fangs of this vision, and could repel it to some little
distance from his mental eye, he perceived, as distinctly as possible, its illusory nature,
and wondered at the power it exerted over his imagination. If, however, he obtained a momentary
respite of this kind, it was not, as in the case of Prometheus (whose vulture was of the same
brood as his demon), by night, but at sunrise, when the god of the Magi stepped, as it were,
upon his throne to receive the homage of the earth. The hour of repose, as night is to the
fortunate and the happy, was to him the hour of torture; and he daily lingered about the sea-shore,
anxiously watching the setting sun, and trembling more and more as the glorious luminary approached
the termination of his career and disappeared behind the purple waves. As soon as darkness
descended upon the earth, Lucifer, if absent before, invariably alighted with it, and stood
beside his victim, who clapping his hands upon his eyes, would fly with a howl or a shriek
towards the habitations of men.

At length he became convinced that his last hour drew near; and he blessed God that his struggle
was about to terminate. As soon as this idea took possession of his mind, he grew a little
more tranquil; and, excepting when he thought of Beatrice, awaited the final hour with a kind
of satisfaction. In this pious mood of mind, he one evening wandered to his usual haunt on
the seaside. The sun had set--the moon and all the stars were in heaven--and the earth and
the sea were sleeping in the silver light. He set him down on a lofty rock overhanging the
sea, which was deep and still in that part; and with the waves on his left, and the earth in
all its loveliness on his right, he raised his eyes towards heaven, and was absorbed in devotion.
At that moment, a face of unutterable beauty presented itself in the bright moonlight before
him. With a single glance, he discovered it was that of Lucifer, but softened to angelic loveliness.
Uttering a wild and piercing shriek, he started from it towards the edge of the precipice.
Beatrice for it was she--instantly caught him by the hand to drag him back; and pronounced
his name. The words and the touch dissipated his illusion; and with the rapidity of lightning
revealed to his mind the fatal secret of his misery. He now saw that, having been occupied
with thoughts of her when he painted his picture, he had lent a portion of her beauty to the
fallen archangel; and hence the pain her looks had occasionally inflicted on him. While this
conviction darted into his mind, he was already falling over the precipice; but he still grappled
at the rock, and made desperate efforts to recover himself. Beatrice, also, finding that he
was going and drawing her after him, for she still held him by the hand, caught hold of a tuft
of grass which grew on the edge of the cliff and grasped it convulsively. In this situation
they hung for an instant, suspended over the abyss; but the grass-tuft by which she clung gradually
gave way; and in another instant a sullen plunge in the deep waters below told that the loves
and miseries of Spinello and Beatrice were ended.

Note.--The passage of Lanzi, to which I referred at the commencement, is as follows:--

"The 'Fall of the Angels,' still remains in St. Angelo, at Arezzo, in which Lucifer is represented
so terrible, that it afterwards haunted the dreams of the artist, and, deranging both his mind
and body, hastened his death. Bernardo Daddi was his scholar."--History of Painting in, Italy,
vol. i. p. 65. Roscoe's Translation.

       *       *       *       *       *

First in the poetry is the Bechuana Boy, an affecting narrative, by Mr. Pringle, as may be
implied from one verse:

  He came with open aspect bland,
    And modestly before me stood,
  Caressing with a kindly hand
    That fawn of gentle brood;
  Then meekly gazing in my face
    Said in the language of his race,
  With smiling look yet pensive tone--
    "Stranger--I'm in the world alone."

The Irish Mother to her Child, a Song, by Mr. Banim, has great force and feeling, with the
date 1828, significantly appended to this stanza:

  Alas! my boy, so beautiful! alas! my love, so brave!
  And must your manly Irish limbs still drag it to the grave?
  And thou, my son, yet have a son, foredoomed a slave to be?
  Whose mother, too, must weep o'er him the tears I weep o'er thee.

Here, too is an exquisite snatch--on Memory:

  Fond Memory, like a mockingbird,
  Within the widow'd heart is heard,
  Repeating every touching tone
  Of voices that from earth hath gone.

Queen Catharine's Sorrow is a ballad of mournful minstrelsy. Next is the Bard's Address to
his youngest Daughter, by Mr. Hogg--beginning

  Come to my arms, my dear wee pet!
  My gleesome, gentle Harriet!

with all the sweetness and affection of shepherd love. The Poet's Oak, by Allan Cunningham,
is a beautiful finish to the volume, which is altogether equal to any of its compeers.

The Illustrations, twelve in number, may challenge comparison with those of any similar work.
Lyra, the frontispiece, after Wood, by T.A. Dean, is one of the loveliest creations of art;
Vesuvius, after Turner, by Jeavons, is a most elaborate picture of that sublime spectacle of
Nature; Echo, from Arnald's picture in the last exhibition, is finely executed by Goodall;
and with still greater fidelity, Wilkie's Reading the News, is engraved by H. Robinson; but
spirited and finished as it is, we must object to the quantity of smoke from the joint on the
baker's board, and more especially from the pie; besides which, the bakehouse must be at some
distance. The picture has a pleasant accompaniment, by Mr. Charles Knight. Catharine of Arragon,
and Mary Queen of Scots and the Commissioners of the Scottish Church, are so purely historical
as almost to tell their own tale; the first, after Leslie, by W. Humphreys, is in every line
a lesson. The remainder of the plates are of unequal merit, and the elegantly embossed plum-colour
leather binding is even an improvement on that of last year.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Amulet.

This has always been with us a favourite work, and we rejoice to say that the present is equal
to any of its predecessors. It is more sprightly than its title implies, and even less sombre
than the Friendship's Offering; and the interest of most of the prose articles is far from
perishable. Two of them by Dr. Walsh--Are there more worlds inhabited than our globe?--and
the First Invasion of Ireland,--are excellent papers, though too azure for some who have not
the philosophical mind of Lady Mary S----d. Among the Tales, the Two Delhis; Annie Leslie,
by Mrs. S.C. Hall; the Glen of St. Kylas, by Mr. Carne; the Anxious Wife, by the Editor; a
Tale of Pentland, by the Ettrick Shepherd; and the Austral Chief, by the Rev. Mr. Ellis,--may
be read and re-read with increasing interest, which is not a general characteristic of "Annual"
sketches. Our extract is one of the most buoyant pieces in the volume--

A CASTLE IN THE AIR.

By Miss Mitford.[5]

    [5] This ingenious lady is the most indefatigable of all
        lady-writers of the present day. Her "Sketches" will soon reach
        the famed "One Thousand and One." At this moment too, our
        favourite authoress is engaged on two tragedies for the patent
        theatres--one Inez de Castro, which has been poetized in
        half-a-dozen forms of late, and is even in the Amulet
        before us: the subject and title of the second tragedy is
        Otho: both will probably be of a melo-dramatic cast, which
        founded the success of Rienzi. If it should be so, the fault
        will not rest with the fair authoress, the managers, or admirers
        of the pure drama; we need not add where the blame lies.

