All who indulge sinful traits of character, or wilfully cherish a known sin, are inviting the
temptations of Satan. They separate themselves from God and from the watchcare of His angels;
as the evil one presents his deceptions, they are without defense, and fall an easy prey. Those
who thus place themselves in his power, little realize where their course will end. Having
achieved their overthrow, the tempter will employ them as his agents to lure others to ruin.
But rather than yield the liberty so agreeable to the carnal heart, and renounce the sins which
they love, multitudes close their eyes to the light, and walk straight on, regardless of warnings,
while Satan weaves his snares about them, and they become his prey. They have entered upon
a contest against principalities and powers and wicked spirits in high places. Satan will not
yield one inch of ground except as he is driven back by the power of heavenly messengers. The
people of God should be able to meet him, as did our Saviour, with the words, “It is written.”
Satan can quote Scripture now as in the days of Christ, and he will pervert its teachings to
sustain his delusions. Those who would stand in this time of peril must understand for themselves
the testimony of the Scriptures. Many will be confronted by the spirits of devils personating
beloved relatives or friends, and declaring the most dangerous heresies. These visitants will
appeal to our tenderest sympathies, and will work miracles to sustain their pretensions. We
must be prepared to withstand them with the Bible truth that the dead know not anything, and
that they who thus appear are the spirits of devils.

Just before us is the “hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them
that dwell upon the earth.”(994) All whose faith is not firmly established upon the word of
God will be deceived and overcome. Satan “works with all deceivableness of unrighteousness”
to gain control of the children of men; and his deceptions will continually increase. But he
can gain his object only as men voluntarily yield to his temptations. Those who are earnestly
seeking a knowledge of the truth, and are striving to purify their souls through obedience,
thus doing what they can to prepare for the conflict, will find, in the God of truth, a sure
defense. “Because thou hast kept the word of My patience, I also will keep thee,”(995) is the
Saviour’s promise. He would sooner send every angel out of heaven to protect His people, than
leave one soul that trusts in Him to be overcome by Satan.

The prophet Isaiah brings to view the fearful deception which will come upon the wicked, causing
them to count themselves secure from the judgments of God: “We have made a covenant with death,
and with hell are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, it shall
not come unto us: for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves.”(996)
In the class here described are included those who in their stubborn impenitence comfort themselves
with the assurance that there is to be no punishment for the sinner; that all mankind, it matters
not how corrupt, are to be exalted to heaven, to become as the angels of God. But still more
emphatically are those making a covenant with death and an agreement with hell, who renounce
the truths which Heaven has provided as a defense for the righteous in the day of trouble,
and accept the refuge of lies offered by Satan in its stead,—the delusive pretensions of Spiritualism.

Marvelous beyond expression is the blindness of the people of this generation. Thousands reject
the word of God as unworthy of belief, and with eager confidence receive the deceptions of
Satan. Skeptics and scoffers denounce the bigotry of those who contend for the faith of prophets
and apostles, and they divert themselves by holding up to ridicule the solemn declarations
of the Scriptures concerning Christ and the plan of salvation, and the retribution to be visited
upon the rejecters of the truth. They affect great pity for minds so narrow, weak, and superstitious
as to acknowledge the claims of God and obey the requirements of His law. They manifest as
much assurance as if, indeed, they had made a covenant with death and an agreement with hell,—as
if they had erected an impassable, impenetrable barrier between themselves and the vengeance
of God. Nothing can arouse their fears. So fully have they yielded to the tempter, so closely
are they united with him, and so thoroughly imbued with his spirit, that they have no power
and no inclination to break away from his snare.

Satan has long been preparing for his final effort to deceive the world. He has not yet reached
the full accomplishment of his designs; but it will be reached in the last remnant of time.
The people are fast being lulled to a fatal security, to be awakened only by the outpouring
of the wrath of God. AIMS OF THE PAPACY.

Romanism is now regarded by Protestants with far greater favor than in former years. In those
countries where Catholicism is not in the ascendency, and the papists are taking a conciliatory
course in order to gain influence, there is an increasing indifference concerning the doctrines
that separate the reformed churches from the papal hierarchy; the opinion is gaining ground,
that, after all, we do not differ so widely upon vital points as has been supposed, and that
a little concession on our part will bring us into a better understanding with Rome. The time
was when Protestants placed a high value upon the liberty of conscience which had been so dearly
purchased. They taught their children to abhor popery, and held that to seek harmony with Rome
would be disloyalty to God. But how widely different are the sentiments now expressed.

The defenders of the papacy declare that the church has been maligned; and the Protestant world
are inclined to accept the statement. Many urge that it is unjust to judge the church of to-day
by the abominations and absurdities that marked her reign during the centuries of ignorance
and darkness. They excuse her horrible cruelty as the result of the barbarism of the times,
and plead that the influence of modern civilization has changed her sentiments.

Have these persons forgotten the claim of infallibility put forth for eight hundred years by
this haughty power? So far from being relinquished, this claim was affirmed in the nineteenth
century with greater positiveness than ever before. As Rome asserts that the church “never
erred; nor will it, according to the Scriptures, ever err,”(1000) how can she renounce the
principles which governed her course in past ages?

The papal church will never relinquish her claim to infallibility. All that she has done in
her persecution of those who reject her dogmas, she holds to be right; and would she not repeat
the same acts, should the opportunity be presented? Let the restraints now imposed by secular
governments be removed, and Rome be re-instated in her former power, and there would speedily
be a revival of her tyranny and persecution.

A well-known writer speaks thus of the attitude of the papal hierarchy as regards freedom of
conscience, and of the perils which especially threaten the United States from the success
of her policy:

“There are many who are disposed to attribute any fear of Roman Catholicism in the United States
to bigotry or childishness. Such see nothing in the character and attitude of Romanism that
is hostile to our free institutions, or find nothing portentous in its growth. Let us, then,
first compare some of the fundamental principles of our government with those of the Catholic
Church.

“The Constitution of the United States guarantees liberty of conscience. Nothing is dearer
or more fundamental. Pope Pius IX., in his Encyclical Letter of August 15, 1854, said: ‘The
absurd and erroneous doctrines or ravings in defense of liberty of conscience, are a most pestilential
error—a pest, of all others, most to be dreaded in a State.’ The same pope, in his Encyclical
Letter of December 8, 1864, anathematized ‘those who assert the liberty of conscience science
and of religious worship,’ also ‘all such as maintain that the church may not employ force.’

“The pacific tone of Rome in the United States does not imply a change of heart. She is tolerant
where she is helpless. Says Bishop O’Connor: ‘Religious liberty is merely endured until the
opposite can be carried into effect without peril to the Catholic world.’... The archbishop
of St. Louis once said: ‘Heresy and unbelief are crimes; and in Christian countries, as in
Italy and Spain, for instance, where all the people are Catholics, and where the Catholic religion
is an essential part of the law of the land, they are punished as other crimes.’...

“Every cardinal, archbishop, and bishop in the Catholic Church takes an oath of allegiance
to the pope, in which occur the following words: ‘Heretics, schismatics, and rebels to our
said lord (the pope), or his aforesaid successors, I will to my utmost persecute and oppose.’
”(1001)

It is true that there are real Christians in the Roman Catholic communion. Thousands in that
church are serving God according to the best light they have. They are not allowed access to
His word, and therefore they do not discern the truth. They have never seen the contrast between
a living heart-service and a round of mere forms and ceremonies. God looks with pitying tenderness
upon these souls, educated as they are in a faith that is delusive and unsatisfying. He will
cause rays of light to penetrate the dense darkness that surrounds them. He will reveal to
them the truth as it is in Jesus, and many will yet take their position with His people.

But Romanism as a system is no more in harmony with the gospel of Christ now than at any former
period in her history. The Protestant churches are in great darkness, or they would discern
the signs of the times. The Roman Church is far-reaching in her plans and modes of operation.
She is employing every device to extend her influence and increase her power in preparation
for a fierce and determined conflict to regain control of the world, to re-establish persecution,
and to undo all that Protestantism has done. Catholicism is gaining ground upon every side.
See the increasing number of her churches and chapels in Protestant countries. Look at the
popularity of her colleges and seminaries in America, so widely patronized by Protestants.
Look at the growth of ritualism in England, and the frequent defections to the ranks of the
Catholics. These things should awaken the anxiety of all who prize the pure principles of the
gospel.

Protestants have tampered with and patronized popery; they have made compromises and concessions
which papists themselves are surprised to see, and fail to understand. Men are closing their
eyes to the real character of Romanism, and the dangers to be apprehended from her supremacy.
The people need to be aroused to resist the advances of this most dangerous foe to civil and
religious liberty.

Many Protestants suppose that the Catholic religion is unattractive, and that its worship is
a dull, meaningless round of ceremony. Here they mistake. While Romanism is based upon deception,
it is not a coarse and clumsy imposture. The religious service of the Roman Church is a most
impressive ceremonial. Its gorgeous display and solemn rites fascinate the senses of the people,
and silence the voice of reason and of conscience. The eye is charmed. Magnificent churches,
imposing processions, golden altars, jeweled shrines, choice paintings, and exquisite sculpture
appeal to the love of beauty. The ear also is captivated. The music is unsurpassed. The rich
notes of the deep-toned organ, blending with the melody of many voices as it swells through
the lofty domes and pillared aisles of her grand cathedrals, cannot fail to impress the mind
with awe and reverence.

                         [Interior of a church.]

This outward splendor, pomp, and ceremony, that only mocks the longings of the sin-sick soul,
is an evidence of inward corruption. The religion of Christ needs not such attractions to recommend
it. In the light shining from the cross, true Christianity appears so pure and lovely that
no external decorations can enhance its true worth. It is the beauty of holiness, a meek and
quiet spirit, which is of value with God.

Brilliancy of style is not necessarily an index of pure, elevated thought. High conceptions
of art, delicate refinement of taste, often exist in minds that are earthly and sensual. They
are often employed by Satan to lead men to forget the necessities of the soul, to lose sight
of the future, immortal life, to turn away from their infinite Helper, and to live for this
world alone.

A religion of externals is attractive to the unrenewed heart. The pomp and ceremony of the
Catholic worship has a seductive, bewitching power, by which many are deceived; and they come
to look upon the Roman Church as the very gate of heaven. None but those who have planted their
feet firmly upon the foundation of truth, and whose hearts are renewed by the Spirit of God,
are proof against her influence. Thousands who have not an experimental knowledge of Christ
will be led to accept the forms of godliness without the power. Such a religion is just what
the multitudes desire.

The church’s claim to the right to pardon, leads the Romanist to feel at liberty to sin; and
the ordinance of confession, without which her pardon is not granted, tends also to give license
to evil. He who kneels before fallen man, and opens in confession the secret thoughts and imaginations
of his heart, is debasing his manhood, and degrading every noble instinct of his soul. In unfolding
the sins of his life to a priest,—an erring, sinful mortal, and too often corrupted with wine
and licentiousness,—his standard of character is lowered, and he is defiled in consequence.
His thought of God is degraded to the likeness of fallen humanity; for the priest stands as
a representative of God. This degrading confession of man to man is the secret spring from
which has flowed much of the evil that is defiling the world, and fitting it for the final
destruction. Yet to him who loves self-indulgence, it is more pleasing to confess to a fellow-mortal
than to open the soul to God. It is more palatable to human nature to do penance than to renounce
sin; it is easier to mortify the flesh by sackcloth and nettles and galling chains than to
crucify fleshly lusts. Heavy is the yoke which the carnal heart is willing to bear rather than
bow to the yoke of Christ.

There is a striking similarity between the Church of Rome and the Jewish Church at the time
of Christ’s first advent. While the Jews secretly trampled upon every principle of the law
of God, they were outwardly rigorous in the observance of its precepts, loading it down with
exactions and traditions that made obedience painful and burdensome. As the Jews professed
to revere the law, so do Romanists claim to reverence the cross. They exalt the symbol of Christ’s
sufferings, while in their lives they deny Him whom it represents.

Papists place crosses upon their churches, upon their altars, and upon their garments. Everywhere
is seen the insignia of the cross. Everywhere it is outwardly honored and exalted. But the
teachings of Christ are buried beneath a mass of senseless traditions, false interpretations,
and rigorous exactions.

The worship of images and relics, the invocation of saints, and the exaltation of the pope,
are devices of Satan to attract the minds of the people from God and from His Son. To accomplish
their ruin, he endeavors to turn their attention from Him through whom alone they can find
salvation. He will direct them to any object that can be substituted for the One who has said,
“Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.”(1003)

It is Satan’s constant effort to misrepresent the character of God, the nature of sin, and
the real issues at stake in the great controversy. His sophistry lessens the obligation of
the divine law, and gives men license to sin. At the same time he causes them to cherish false
conceptions of God, so that they regard Him with fear and hate, rather than with love. The
cruelty inherent in his own character is attributed to the Creator; it is embodied in systems
of religion, and expressed in modes of worship. Thus the minds of men are blinded, and Satan
secures them as his agents to war against God. By perverted conceptions of the divine attributes,
heathen nations were led to believe human sacrifices necessary to secure the favor of Deity;
and horrible cruelties have been perpetrated under the various forms of idolatry.

The Roman Catholic Church, uniting the forms of paganism and Christianity, and, like paganism,
misrepresenting the character of God, has resorted to practices no less cruel and revolting.
In the days of Rome’s supremacy, there were instruments of torture to compel assent to her
doctrines. There was the stake for those who would not concede to her claims. There were massacres
on a scale that will never be known until revealed in the judgment. Dignitaries of the church
studied, under Satan their master, to invent means to cause the greatest possible torture,
and not end the life of their victim. In many cases the infernal process was repeated to the
utmost limit of human endurance, until nature gave up the struggle, and the sufferer hailed
death as a sweet release.

Such was the fate of Rome’s opponents. For her adherents she had the discipline of the scourge,
of famishing hunger, of bodily austerities in every conceivable, heart-sickening form. To secure
the favor of Heaven, penitents violated the laws of God by violating the laws of nature. They
were taught to sunder the ties which He has formed to bless and gladden man’s earthly sojourn.
The churchyard contains millions of victims, who spent their lives in vain endeavors to subdue
their natural affections, to repress, as offensive to God, every thought and feeling of sympathy
with their fellow-creatures.

If we desire to understand the determined cruelty of Satan, manifested for hundreds of years,
not among those who never heard of God, but in the very heart and throughout the extent of
Christendom, we have only to look at the history of Romanism. Through this mammoth system of
deception the prince of evil achieves his purpose of bringing dishonor to God and wretchedness
to man. And as we see how he succeeds in disguising himself, and accomplishing his work through
the leaders of the church, we may better understand why he has so great antipathy to the Bible.
If that book is read, the mercy and love of God will be revealed; it will be seen that He lays
upon men none of these heavy burdens. All that He asks is a broken and contrite heart, a humble,
obedient spirit.

Christ gives no example in His life for men and women to shut themselves in monasteries in
order to become fitted for heaven. He has never taught that love and sympathy must be repressed.
The Saviour’s heart overflowed with love. The nearer man approaches to moral perfection, the
keener are his sensibilities, the more acute is his perception of sin, and the deeper his sympathy
for the afflicted. The pope claims to be the vicar of Christ; but how does his character bear
comparison with that of our Saviour? Was Christ ever known to consign men to the prison or
the rack because they did not pay Him homage as the King of heaven? Was His voice heard condemning
to death those who did not accept Him?

The Roman Church now presents a fair front to the world, covering with apologies her record
of horrible cruelties. She has clothed herself in Christlike garments; but she is unchanged.
Every principle of the papacy that existed in past ages exists to-day. The doctrines devised
in the darkest ages are still held. Let none deceive themselves. The papacy that Protestants
are now so ready to honor is the same that ruled the world in the days of the Reformation,
when men of God stood up, at the peril of their lives, to expose her iniquity. She possesses
the same pride and arrogant assumption that lorded it over kings and princes, and claimed the
prerogatives of God. Her spirit is no less cruel and despotic now than when she crushed out
human liberty, and slew the saints of the Most High.

The papacy is just what prophecy declared that she would be, the apostasy of the latter times.(1005)
It is a part of her policy to assume the character which will best accomplish her purpose;
but beneath the variable appearance of the chameleon, she conceals the invariable venom of
the serpent. “Faith ought not to be kept with heretics, nor persons suspected of heresy,”(1006)
she declares. Shall this power, whose record for a thousand years is written in the blood of
the saints, be now acknowledged as a part of the church of Christ?

It is not without reason that the claim has been put forth in Protestant countries, that Catholicism
differs less widely from Protestantism than in former times. There has been a change; but the
change is not in the papacy. Catholicism indeed resembles much of the Protestantism that now
exists; because Protestantism has so greatly degenerated since the days of the Reformers.

As the Protestant churches have been seeking the favor of the world, false charity has blinded
their eyes. They do not see but that it is right to believe good of all evil; and as the inevitable
result, they will finally believe evil of all good. Instead of standing in defense of the faith
once delivered to the saints, they are now, as it were, apologizing to Rome for their uncharitable
opinion of her, begging pardon for their bigotry.

A large class, even of those who look upon Romanism with no favor, apprehend little danger
from her power and influence. Many urge that the intellectual and moral darkness prevailing
during the Middle Ages favored the spread of her dogmas, superstitions, and oppression, and
that the greater intelligence of modern times, the general diffusion of knowledge, and the
increasing liberality in matters of religion, forbid a revival of intolerance and tyranny.
The very thought that such a state of things will exist in this enlightened age is ridiculed.
It is true that great light, intellectual, moral, and religious, is shining upon this generation.
In the open pages of God’s holy word, light from heaven has been shed upon the world. But it
should be remembered that the greater the light bestowed, the greater the darkness of those
who pervert or reject it.

A prayerful study of the Bible would show Protestants the real character of the papacy, and
would cause them to abhor and to shun it; but many are so wise in their own conceit that they
feel no need of humbly seeking God that they may be led into the truth. Although priding themselves
on their enlightenment, they are ignorant both of the Scriptures and of the power of God. They
must have some means of quieting their consciences; and they seek that which is least spiritual
and humiliating. What they desire is a method of forgetting God which shall pass as a method
of remembering Him. The papacy is well adapted to meet the wants of all these. It is prepared
for two classes of mankind, embracing nearly the whole world,—those who would be saved by their
merits, and those who would be saved in their sins. Here is the secret of its power.

A day of great intellectual darkness has been shown to be favorable to the success of the papacy.
It will yet be demonstrated that a day of great intellectual light is equally favorable for
its success. In past ages, when men were without God’s word, and without the knowledge of the
truth, their eyes were blindfolded, and thousands were ensnared, not seeing the net spread
for their feet. In this generation there are many whose eyes become dazzled by the glare of
human speculations, “science falsely so called;” they discern not the net, and walk into it
as readily as if blindfolded. God designed that man’s intellectual powers should be held as
a gift from his Maker, and should be employed in the service of truth and righteousness; but
when pride and ambition are cherished, and men exalt their own theories above the word of God,
then intelligence can accomplish greater harm than ignorance. Thus the false science of the
present day, which undermines faith in the Bible, will prove as successful in preparing the
way for the acceptance of the papacy, with its pleasing forms, as did the withholding of knowledge
in opening the way for its aggrandizement in the Dark Ages.

In the movements now in progress in the United States to secure for the institutions and usages
of the church the support of the state, Protestants are following in the steps of papists.
Nay, more, they are opening the door for the papacy to regain in Protestant America the supremacy
which she has lost in the Old World. And that which gives greater significance to this movement
is the fact that the principal object contemplated is the enforcement of Sunday observance,—a
custom which originated with Rome, and which she claims as the sign of her authority. It is
the spirit of the papacy,—the spirit of conformity to worldly customs, the veneration for human
traditions above the commandments of God,—that is permeating the Protestant churches, and leading
them on to do the same work of Sunday exaltation which the papacy has done before them.

If the reader would understand the agencies to be employed in the soon-coming contest, he has
but to trace the record of the means which Rome employed for the same object in ages past.
If he would know how papists and Protestants united will deal with those who reject their dogmas,
let him see the spirit which Rome manifested toward the Sabbath and its defenders.

Royal edicts, general councils, and church ordinances sustained by secular power, were the
steps by which the pagan festival attained its position of honor in the Christian world. The
first public measure enforcing Sunday observance was the law enacted by Constantine.(1007)
This edict required townspeople to rest on “the venerable day of the sun,” but permitted countrymen
to continue their agricultural pursuits. Though virtually a heathen statute, it was enforced
by the emperor after his nominal acceptance of Christianity.

The royal mandate not proving a sufficient substitute for divine authority, Eusebius, a bishop
who sought the favor of princes, and who was the special friend and flatterer of Constantine,
advanced the claim that Christ had transferred the Sabbath to Sunday. Not a single testimony
of the Scriptures was produced in proof of the new doctrine. Eusebius himself unwittingly acknowledges
its falsity, and points to the real authors of the change. “All things,” he says, “whatever
that it was duty to do on the Sabbath, these we have transferred to the Lord’s day.”(1008)
But the Sunday argument, groundless as it was, served to embolden men in trampling upon the
Sabbath of the Lord. All who desired to be honored by the world accepted the popular festival.

As the papacy became firmly established, the work of Sunday exaltation was continued. For a
time the people engaged in agricultural labor when not attending church, and the seventh day
was still regarded as the Sabbath. But steadily a change was effected. Those in holy office
were forbidden to pass judgment in any civil controversy on the Sunday. Soon after, all persons,
of whatever rank, were commanded to refrain from common labor, on pain of a fine for freemen,
and stripes in the case of servants. Later it was decreed that rich men should be punished
with the loss of half of their estates; and finally, that if still obstinate they should be
made slaves. The lower classes were to suffer perpetual banishment.

Miracles also were called into requisition. Among other wonders it was reported that as a husbandman
who was about to plow his field on Sunday, cleaned his plow with an iron, the iron stuck fast
in his hand, and for two years he carried it about with him, “to his exceeding great pain and
shame.”(1009)

Later, the pope gave directions that the parish priest should admonish the violators of Sunday,
and wish them to go to church and say their prayers, lest they bring some great calamity on
themselves and neighbors. An ecclesiastical council brought forward the argument, since so
widely employed, even by Protestants, that because persons had been struck by lightning while
laboring on Sunday, it must be the Sabbath. “It is apparent,” said the prelates, “how high
the displeasure of God was upon their neglect of this day.” An appeal was then made that priests
and ministers, kings and princes, and all faithful people, “use their utmost endeavors and
care that the day be restored to its honor, and, for the credit of Christianity, more devoutly
observed for the time to come.”(1010)

The decrees of councils proving insufficient, the secular authorities were besought to issue
an edict that would strike terror to the hearts of the people, and force them to refrain from
labor on the Sunday. At a synod held in Rome, all previous decisions were reaffirmed with greater
force and solemnity. They were also incorporated into the ecclesiastical law, and enforced
by the civil authorities throughout nearly all Christendom.(1011)

Still the absence of scriptural authority for Sunday-keeping occasioned no little embarrassment.
The people questioned the right of their teachers to set aside the positive declaration of
Jehovah, “The seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God,” in order to honor the day of
the sun. To supply the lack of Bible testimony, other expedients were necessary. A zealous
advocate of Sunday, who about the close of the twelfth century visited the churches of England,
was resisted by faithful witnesses for the truth; and so fruitless were his efforts that he
departed from the country for a season, and cast about him for some means to enforce his teachings.
When he returned, the lack was supplied, and in his after-labors he met with greater success.
He brought with him a roll purporting to be from God Himself, which contained the needed command
for Sunday observance, with awful threats to terrify the disobedient. This precious document—as
base a counterfeit as the institution it supported—was said to have fallen from heaven, and
to have been found in Jerusalem, upon the altar of St. Simeon, in Golgotha. But in fact, the
pontifical palace at Rome was the source whence it proceeded. Frauds and forgeries to advance
the power and prosperity of the church have in all ages been esteemed lawful by the papal hierarchy.

