PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

November 1, 1890.

MODERN TYPES.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S OWN TYPE WRITER.)

NO. XXI.--THE AVERAGE UNDERGRADUATE.

Those who live much in the society of the very middle-aged, hear from them loud and frequent
complaints of the decay of courtesy and the general deterioration, both of manners and of habits,
observable in the young men of the day. With many portentous shakings of the head, these grizzling
censors inform those who care to listen to their wailings, that in the time of their own youth
it was understood to be the duty of young men to be modest, considerate, generous in their
treatment of one another, and chivalrous in their behaviour to women. And every one of them
will probably suggest to his hearers that he was intimately acquainted with at least one young
man who fulfilled that duty with a completeness and a perfection never since attained. Now,
however, they will declare, the case is different. Young men have become selfish and arrogant.
Their respect for age has vanished, their behaviour to ladies is familiar and flippant, their
style of conversation is slangy and disreputable, they are wanting in all proper reverence,
they are pampered, luxurious, affected, foolish, and disingenuous; unworthy, in short, to be
mentioned in the same breath with those who have preceded them, and have left to their degenerate
successors a brilliant but unavailing example of youthful conduct. These diatribes may or may
not be founded to some extent in truth. At the best, however, their truth is only a half-truth.
So long as the world endures, it is probable that young men will have a large allowance of
follies, of affectations, of extravagances, and the young men of to-day are certainly not without
them. But, in the main, though the task of comparison is difficult, they do not appear to be
at all inferior in manliness, in modesty of bearing, and in reverence to the generations that
have gone before. Here and there in London the antics of some youth plunged into a torrent
of folly before he had had time even to think of being wise, excite the comments of the world.
But London is not the school to which one would look for youth at its best. To find that in
any considerable quantity one must travel either to Cambridge or to Oxford, and inspect the
average undergraduates, who form the vast majority at both these Universities.

Now the Average Undergraduate, as he exists, and has for ages existed, is not, perhaps, a very
wise young man. Nor does he possess those brilliant qualities which bring the Precocious Undergraduate
to premature ruin. He has his follies, but they are not very foolish; he has his affectations,
but they are innocent; he has his extravagances, but they pass away, and leave him not very
much the worse for the experience. On the whole, however, he is a fine specimen of the young
Englishman--brave, manly, loyal, and upright. He is the salt of his University, and an honour
to the country that produces him.

The Average Undergraduate will have been an average schoolboy, not afflicted with too great
a love of classics or mathematics, and gifted, unfortunately, with a fine contempt for modern
languages. But he will have taken an honourable part in all school-games, and will have acquired
through them not only vigorous health and strength, but that tolerant and generous spirit of
forbearance without which no manly game can be carried on. These qualities he will carry with
him to the University which his father chooses for him, and to which he himself looks forward
rather as a home of liberty slightly tempered by Proctors, than as a temple of learning, moderated
by examiners.

During the October term which makes him a freshman, the Average Undergraduate devotes a considerable
time to mastering the etiquette of his University and College. He learns that it is not customary
to shake hands with his friends more than twice in each term, once at the beginning, and again
at the end of the term. If he is a Cambridge man, he will cut the tassel of his academical
cap short; at Oxford he will leave it long; but at both he will discover that sugar-tongs are
never used, and that the race of Dons exists merely to plague him and his fellows with lectures,
to which he pays small attention, with enforced chapels, which he sometimes dares to cut, and,
with general disciplinary regulations, to which he considers it advisable to submit, though
he is never inclined to admit their necessity. He becomes a member of his college boat-club,
and learns that one of the objects of a regular attendance at College Chapel is, to enable
the freshman to practise keeping his back straight. Similarly, Latin Dictionaries and Greek
Lexicons are, necessarily, bulky, since, otherwise, they would be useless as seats on which
the budding oarsman may improve the length of his swing in the privacy of his own rooms. These
rooms are all furnished on the same pattern. A table, a pedestal desk for writing, half-a-dozen
ordinary chairs, a basket arm-chair, perhaps a sofa, some photographs of school-groups, family
photographs in frames, a cup or two, won at the school athletic sports, a football cap, and
a few prints of popular pictures, complete the furniture and decorations of the average College
rooms. Of course there are, even amongst undergraduates, wealthy æsthetes, who furnish their
rooms extravagantly--but the Average Undergraduate is not one of them.

On the fifth of November the freshman sallies forth only to find, with a sense of bitter disappointment,
that the rows between Town and Gown are things of the past. He will have discovered ere this
that undergraduate etiquette has ordained that while he wears a cap and gown he must forswear
gloves, and leave his umbrella at home, even though the rain should pour down in torrents.
All these ordinances he observes strictly, though he can neither be "hauled" nor "gated" for
setting them at defiance. Towards the end of his first term he begins to realise more accurately
the joys and privileges of University life, he has formed his set, and more or less found his
level, he has become a connoisseur of cheap wine, he has with pain and labour learned to smoke,
he has certainly exceeded his allowance, and he returns to his home with the firm conviction
that he knows a great deal of life. He will terrify his mother with tales of proctorial misadventures,
and will excite the suspicions of his father by the new brilliance of his attire. Indeed it
is a curious fact that whatever the special pursuit of the Average Undergraduate may be, and
whatever may be the calling and profession of his father, the two are generally engaged in
a financial war. This always ends in the triumph of the older man, who never scruples to use
the power which the possession of the purse gives him in order to discomfit his son. From a
University point of view, the average father has as little variety as the average son.

It must be noted that away from the University or his family circle, and in the society of
ladies, the Average Undergraduate is shy. The wit that flashed so brilliantly in the College
Debating Club is extinguished, the stream of humour that flowed amidst shouts of laughter in
the Essay Society is frozen at its source, the conversation that delighted the frequenters
of his rooms is turned into an irresponsive mumble. But as soon as he returns to the academic
groves, and knows that petticoats are absent, and that his own beloved "blazer" is on his back,
Richard is himself again. He has his undergraduate heroes whom he worships blindly, hoping
himself to be some day a hero and worthy of worship. Moreover, there are in every College traditions
which cause the undergraduate who is a member of it to believe that the men of that particular
society are finer fellows than the men of any other. These traditions the Average Undergraduate
holds as though they were articles of his religion.

The Average Undergraduate generally takes a respectable position as a College oarsman or cricketer,
though he may fail to attain to the University Eight or to the Eleven. He passes his examinations
with effort, but still he passes them. He recks not of Honours. The "poll" or the pass contents
him. Sometimes he makes too much noise, occasionally he dines too well. In London, too, his
conduct during vacations is perhaps a little exuberant, and he is often inclined to treat the
promenades at the Leicester Square Variety Palaces as though he had purchased them. But, on
the whole, he does but little harm to himself and others. He is truthful and ingenuous, and
although he knows himself to be a man, he never tries to be a very old or a very wicked one.
In a word, he is wholesome. In the end he takes his degree creditably enough. His years at
the University have been years of pure delight to him, and he will always look back to them
as the happiest of his life. He has not become very learned, but he will always be a useful
member of the community, and whether as barrister, clergyman, country gentleman, or business
man, he will show an example of manly uprightness which his countrymen could ill afford to lose.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINIS.--The last nights on earth at the Haymarket are announced of A Village Priest. May he
rest in piece. The play that immediately follows is, Called Back; naturally enough a revival,
as the title implies. But one thing is absolutely certain, and that is, that A Village Priest
will never be Called Back. Perhaps L'Abbé Constantin may now have a chance. Eminently good,
but not absolutely saintly. Is there any chance of the Abbé being "translated?"

       *       *       *       *       *

  I.

    Look on London with its Smells--
      Sickening Smells!
  What long nasal misery their nastiness foretells!
    How they trickle, trickle, trickle,
    On the air by day and night!
  While our thoraxes they tickle.
  Like the fumes from brass in pickle,
   Or from naphtha all alight;
  Making stench, stench, stench,
  In a worse than witch-broth drench,
  Of the muck-malodoration that so nauseously wells
    From the Smells, Smells, Smells, Smells,
      Smells, Smells, Smells--
  From the fuming and the spuming of the Smells.

  II.

    Sniff the fetid sewer Smells--
      Loathsome Smells!
  What a lot of typhoid their intensity foretells!
  Through the pleasant air of night,
    How they spread, a noxious blight!
    Full of bad bacterian motes,
      Quickening soon.
  What a lethal vapour floats
  To the foul Smell-fiend who glistens as he gloats
      On the boon.
    Oh, from subterranean cells
  What a gush of sewer-gas voluminously wells!
      How it swells!
      How it dwells
    In our houses!

  III.

    See the Spectre of the Smells--
      London Smells!
  What a world of retrospect his tyranny compels!
    In the silence of the night
    How we muse on the old plight
  Of Kensington,--a Dismal Swamp, and lone!
    Still the old Swamp-Demon floats
    O'er the City, as our throats
      Have long known.
    And the people--ah, the people--
    Though as high as a church steeple
        They have gone
      For fresh air, that Demon's tolling
        In a muffled monotone
      Their doom, and rolling, rolling
        O'er the City overgrown.
      He is neither man nor woman,
      He is neither brute nor human,
        He's a Ghoul;
      Spectre King of Smells, he tolls,
      And he rolls, rolls, rolls.
        Rolls,
      With his cohort of Bad Smells!
      And his cruel bosom swells
      With the triumph of the Smells.
      Whose long tale the scribbler tells
      To the Times, Times, Times,
      Telling of "local" crimes
    In the gendering of the Smells,
        Of the Smells:
      To the Times, Times, Times,
      Telling of Railway crimes,
      In the fostering of Smells,--
      Of the Smells, Smells, Smells,
  Brick-field Smells, bone-boiling Smells,
      Whilst the Demon of old times
        With us dwells, dwells, dwells.
      The old Swamp Fiend of moist climes!
      See him rolling with his Smells--
      Awful Smells. Smells. Smells--
      See him prowling with his Smells,
      Horrid Smells, Smells, Smells--
  London Smells, Smells, Smells, Smells,
          Smells, Smells, Smells,--
  Will the County Council free us from these Smells?

       *       *       *       *       *

JUST NOW THE CHIEF NILE-IST IN PARIS.--CLEOPATRA.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SEEING THE STARS.

The following paragraph appears in the columns of the Scottish Leader:--

    "Those who were out of doors in Edinburgh at three o'clock
    on Saturday morning were startled by the appearance of a
    brilliant meteorite in the northern hemisphere. Its advent
    was announced by a flash of light which illuminated the whole
    city. A long fiery streak marked its course, and remained
    visible for more than a minute. At first this streak was
    perfectly straight, but, after it had begun to fade, it broke
    into a zig-zag."

The phenomenon so graphically described, though remarkable, is not, we believe, in the circumstances,
entirely novel. Perhaps it is noteworthy as coming a little early in the year. We understand
that on New Year's Day, "those who are out of doors in Edinburgh at three o'clock in the morning,"
are not unfrequently startled in somewhat similar manner.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOOTHERIES.--"TOOTH's Gallery" always strikes as a somewhat misleading appellation. It
always appears to have more to do with palates than pictures, and to be more concerned with
gums than gold frames. No doubt the head of the firm of Messrs. ARTHUR TOOTH AND SONS is a
wise TOOTH, so let him christen his gallery the "Arthurnæum." He is a TOOTH that you cannot
stop, he is always coming out, and this autumn he comes out stronger than ever with a most
interesting and varied collection. Excellent examples you may find of J.B. BURGESS, J.C. HOOK,
BASTIEN LEPAGE, TADEMA, VICAT COLE, PETER GRAHAM, MILLAIS, LEADER, C. CALTHROP, MARCUS STONE,
and other notables.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MOAN OF THE MAIDEN.

(AFTER TENNYSON.)

  Golf! Golf! Golf!
    By the side of the sounding sea;
  And I would that my ears had never
    Heard aught of the "links" and the "tee."

  Oh, well for the man of my heart,
    That he bets on the "holes" and the play
  Oh, well for the "caddie" that carries
    The "clubs," and earns his pay.

  He puts his red coat on,
    And he roams on the sandy hill;
  But oh for the touch of that golfer's hand,
    That the "niblick" wields with a will.

  Golf! Golf! Golf!
    Where the "bunkers" vex by the sea;
  But the days of Tennis and Croquet
    Will never come back to me!

       *       *       *       *       *

OYSTERITIES AT COLCHESTER.--Last Wednesday the Annual Oyster Feast was held at Colchester.
Toasts in plenty: music of course. But why was there absent from the harmonious list so appropriate
a glee as Sir Henry Bishop's:--

  "Uprouse ye then,
  My merry merry men,
  It is our opening day!"

Why wasn't Deputy-Sheriff BEARD asked? Is he already shelved?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST OF "MARY'S LAMB."

    ["A firm in Sydney have completed arrangements whereby frozen
    sheep or lambs can be delivered at any address in the United
    Kingdom."]

  Mary had a little lamb,
    Which she desired to send
  Across the mighty ocean as
    A present to a friend.

  That friend was partial to lamb chops,
    Likewise to devilled kidney;
  So friendly MARY promptly went
    Unto "a firm in Sydney."

  That firm replied, "the lamb we'll send
    By parcel to your cousin;
  That is, if you do not object
    To have your darling frozen."

  Then Mary wept. She said, "My lamb
    Has wool as white as snow;
  But packed in ice? It don't sound nice,
    No, Sydney Merchant, No!

  "Refrigerate my darling! Oh!
    It makes my bosom bleed.
  Still, go it must. I think you said,
    'Delivery guaranteed!'"

  So Mary's lamb the ocean crossed
    By "Frozen Parcel Post;"
  And Mary's Cousin said its chops
    Were most delicious--most!

  MORAL.

  Science, though it pays "cent. per cent.,"
    Is destitute of pity;
  And makes hash of the sentiment
    Dear to the Nursery ditty.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT AS HUMPIRE.

I was a takin of my favrit walk, larst Friday was a week, from Charing Cross round to my own
privet residence in Queen street, when a yung lad tapped me on the sholder and said to me,
"Please, Sir, are you the sillybrated Mr. ROBERT, the Citty Waiter?" In course I replied, "Yes,
most suttenly;" when he said, "Then this yere letter's for you, and I wants a emediat arnser."
Concealing my wisibel estonishment, I took him hup Healy Place, where the werry famous Lawyer
lives, as can git you out of any amownt of trubbel, and then opened the letter, and read the
following most estonishing words, wiz.:--"Mr. ROBERT,--can you come immediately to the ----
Club, as you alone can decide a very heavy wager that is now pending between two Noble Lords
who are here awaiting your arrival. You will be well paid for your trouble. The Bearer will
show you the way.--J.N." I coud learn nothink from my jewwenile guide, so I told him to lead
the way, and off we started, and soon arived at the Club.

I need ardly say that, being all quite fust-rate swells, they receaved me in the most kindest
manner, and ewen smiled upon me most freely, which in course I felt as a great complement.

One on 'em then adrest me sumwot as follers, "I'm sure, Mr. ROBERT, we are all werry much obliged
to you for coming so reddily at my request." At which they all cried, "Here! here!" "You of
coarse understand what we wish you to do." To which I at once replide, "Quite so, my noble
swells." At which they all larfed quite lowd, tho' I'm sure I don't kno why. He then said that
it was thort better not to menshun the names of any of the Gents present, and he then presented
me with a little packet, which he requested I woud not open till I got home, and then proseeded
to xplain the Wager, somthink like this. Two of the noble Lords present, it apeared, had disagreed
upon a certain matter, and, wanting a Humpire of caracter and xperience to decide between them,
had both agreed to a surgestion that had bin made, that of all the many men in London none
coudn't be considered more fitter for the post than Mr. ROBERT, the sillybrated Citty Waiter!

I rayther thinks as I blusht wisibly, and I knos as I bust out into a perfuse prusperashun,
but I didn't say a word, but pulled myself together as I can ginerally do when I feels as it's
necessary to manetane my good charackter. He then said, "The question for you to deside is
this: At a great and most himportant Dinner that is about to be held soon, at which most of
the werry grandest swells left in Lundon will be present, we intends to hinterduce 'The Loving
Cup;' not," he added, smiling, "so much to estonish the natives, as to stagger the strangers.
The question, therefore, that you, as the leading Citty Waiter of the day, have to settle,
is, How many of the Gests stand up while one on 'em drinks?" Delighted to find how heasy was
my tarsk, I ansers, without a moment's hezzitation, "Three!" One on 'em turned garstly pale,
and shouted out, "What for?" To which I replied, "One to take off and hold up the cover, the
second to bow, and drink out of the Cup, and the third to protect the Drinker while he drinks,
lest any ennemy should stab him in the back."

The garstly pale Gent wanted to arsk more questions, but the rest shouted, "Horder! Horder!"
and the fust Gent coming up to me again, thanked me for what he called my kindness in cumming,
so I made 'em my very best bow, which I copied from a certain Poplar Prince, and took my departure.

Being, I hopes, a man of strict werassity, I never wunce took ewen so much as a peep at the
little packet as the Gent gave me, but I couldn't help feeling ewery now and then to see if
it was quite safe, which of course it was, and ewen when I reached my umbel abode, I still
restrained my natral curiossity, and sat down, and told my wundrus tail to the wife of my buzzom,
and then placed the little packet in her estonished ands, which she hopened with a slite flutter,
and then perdoosed from it Five Golden Souverings! If any other noble swells wants another
Humpire on the same libberal terms, let 'em send to ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

  PATTI, take, PATTI, take, Grand Old Man!
  Give him voice lozenges soon as you can.
  Pack them, address them, as neat as can be,
  And courteously hand them to W.G.!

  Mellifluous Nightingale, melody's source
  Our Golden (mouthed) Eagle hath grown a bit hoarse;
  But though Aquila's husky with age and long fights,
  His sweet Philomela will set him to-rights.

  A cough-drop, a lozenge, a jube-jube, from you,
  His larynx will strengthen and lubricate too.
  His old "Camp Town Races" he'll pipe again yet;
  Nay--who knows?--with you may arrange a duet!

  The eagle is scarcely a song-bird, but still,
  He may have a good ear for the nightingale's trill!
  Fair Philomel comes to old Aquila's aid!!!
  Faith! the picture is pretty, so here 'tis portrayed?
]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE ALHAMBRA.--Claude Duval, a new monologue, music by EDWARD SOLOMON. Mr. FRANK CELLI has
to "stand and deliver" the lines of Messrs. BOWYER and MORTON. As the description "monologue"
is not suggestive of music, why didn't the authors invent a special name for the entertainment,
and call it the "Solomonologue"? Most expressive.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE

The Dead Man's Gift, by HERBERT COMPTON; the title of which might lead one to imagine something
very weird and uncanny. Nothing of the sort. Mr. COMPTON doesn't wish to "make your flesh creep"
like the Fat Boy in Pickwick. It is only the story of a tea-planter's romance, though the finding
of the gift is most exciting. Interesting and well written.

The Cabinet Portrait Gallery, published by CASSELL & Co., with portraits of most of our Celebrities,
by Messrs. DOWNEY, is excellent.

Christmas Books now make their appearance, and the first and principal offenders in disturbing
the Calendar are Messrs. BLACKIE & SON. "Among the names," says the Baron's juvenile assistant
Co. Junior, "we recognise one of our boys' most favourite authors, G.A. HENTY, who this year
gives them another exciting historical tale, By England's Aid, which deals with the closing
events of the War of Independence in Holland. Also Maori and Settler, a story of the New Zealand
War, when young England was quite a settler for the Maori. Both recommended. Hal Hungerford,
by J.R. HUTCHINSON, is a good book for boys, and A Rash Promise, or, Meg's Secret by CECILIA
SELBY LOWNDES, is an equally good one for girls, and finally The Girls' Own Paper Annual, and
The Boys' Own Paper Annual, are two very handsome capitally illustrated gift-books." Now the
Baron's cheerful assistants have done their work, he himself, has something to say.