These parts of the complicated and well-fitting scheme had seemed deliciously amusing to Knight
in those days; that Van Vreck should use his secret skill against his own brothers and nephews
in the business he had made; that the great expert should add to his fortune by stealing from
his own firm, or rather, from the great insurance company who would repay their losses; that
in such ways, with such money, he could add treasures to his famous collection, practically
at no expense to himself, and have besides the exquisite pleasure of laughing in his sleeve
at the world.

It had all added zest to the work. And Knight had been pleased with some small inventions of
his own, praised by Van Vreck: a smart hiding-place in the heel of a boot, almost impossible
to detect, and another equally convenient and invisible in the jet standard of Madalena de
Santiago's famous crystal. He had enjoyed the excitement when he and Madalena and their two
assistants, among the other passengers on board ship, had consented to be searched for the
missing jewels. And he had laughed sneeringly at the credulity of those who believed in Madalena's
trumped-up vision "of the small fair man," the lighted life-preserver dropped into the sea
at night, and the yacht which sent out a boat to pick it up.

For that other vision her crystal had supplied after the robbery in Portman Square he was not
responsible; but it was he who had suggested the "pictures" for her to see on shipboard.

He hated the recollection now. Even Annesley could not think it more contemptible than he did.

Still worse was the remembrance of Mrs. Ellsworth's latchkey, the keeping of which had been
accidental at first. Afterward he had gaily regarded its possession as a gift from Providence.
The way to Ruthven Smith's house was made clear by it; and better still, through it the dragon
could be punished for years of cruelty to the captive princess. "Char" had been the man to
whom fell the honour of bestowing the punishment, and leaving a missive from the princess's
rescuer.

Knight writhed in spirit as he wondered whether the princess guessed the fate of the key.

He wondered also if she asked herself what part he had had in the disappearance of the Valley
House heirlooms. She would loathe him more intensely, if possible, could she know how her presence
with him on that public "show day" had helped to cloak with respectability his secret mission.
How mean he had been in distracting her attention from the two Fragonards and from the cabinets
containing the miniatures and the carved Chinese gods of jade while he "marked" the prizes
for the eyes of his two assistants. How unsuspicious and happy the girl had been, trusting
him utterly, while behind her back he manipulated the diamond--the useful diamond--he always
carried for such purposes!

Even then he had the grace to be ashamed of himself for disloyalty, though not for dishonesty,
as deftly the diamond cut the glass faces of the cabinets directly opposite the miniatures
and the Buddha meant to enrich Paul Van Vreck's secret collection. He had been glad to hurry
his wife away, and let the eager pair of "tourists" crowding on his heels finish the work he
had begun.

It seemed to Knight, as his thoughts travelled heavily along the past, that no other woman
but Annesley Grayle, this fragile white rose that had freely given its sweetness, could have
turned him from the vow of vengeance for his parents' fate which as a boy he had sworn against
the world. Day by day, week by week, month by month, the fragrance of the white rose had so
changed him that looking back at himself, he saw a stranger.

Had it not been for certain engagements made with Paul Van Vreck and others--engagements which
had to be kept because there is honour among thieves--that "den" of his in Portman Square would
long ago have been shut to his "at home" day visitors. No more "business" would have been done
on those or any premises; this party of Easter guests would not have been invited to Valley
House; and the Malindore diamond, sleeping away its secret on Annesley's breast, would still
be guarding his secret, too.

While the others were at church she had sent him the diamond by Parker--the blue diamond, and
the rose sapphire; her engagement ring also; the pearls he had given her the day before their
marriage, and all his other gifts (except the wedding ring), which had not been stolen on the
night when the Annesley-Setons' silver went.

It had been a blow to open the box brought to his room by the maid without a word of explanation--no
lighter because it was deserved. It was only less severe than had the wedding ring been with
the rest.

And perhaps, Knight reflected, it would have been there had Annesley known of another trick
played upon her: those cleverly "reconstructed" pearls, gleaming ropes of them, and paste diamonds
added to her collection only for the purpose of disappearing in the "burglary." A hateful trick,
but he had believed it necessary at the time, while despising it.

Well, he was punished for everything at last--everything vile he had done and thought in his
whole life; even those things the White Rose did not know!

He was young still, but he felt old--old in sin and old in hopelessness; for youth cannot exist
in a heart deprived of hope. It seemed to Knight that his heart had been deprived of hope for
years, yet suddenly he recalled the fact that a few moments before--up to the time when he
had begun counting his sins one by one, like the devil's rosary--he had been thinking with
something akin to hope of the future.

"What if, after all----" he began to ask himself.

But stumbling unseeingly from avenue to path, and path to lawn, he had wandered near the house.

By what seemed to him a strange coincidence he had come to a standstill almost on the spot
where he had stood last night when Annesley, at her window, called him in.

She had loved him then! She had called him in to be forgiven. But her forgiveness, divine as
it was, white and wide-winged as the flight of a dove--had not been wide enough to cover his guilt.

What a ghastly difference between last night and this! It was right that the face of the moon,
so bright then, should be veiled with ragged black clouds. And yet, what if----

The man's eyes strained through the darkness of that dark hour before the dawn.

"If her window is uncurtained, I'll take it as a good omen," he said.

Noiselessly his feet trod the short, wet grass, going nearer to the shadowed loggia to make
sure....

The curtains were drawn closely, and the window was shut.

CHAPTER XXII

DESTINY AND THE WALDOS

After the cablegram came, calling them to America, it took the Nelson Smiths an incredibly
short time to wind up their affairs and to break the ties--many and intricate as the clinging
tendrils of a vine--which attached them to England.

Of course, as their friends pointed out, it wasn't as if they had had a home of their own.
Luckily for them--unluckily for the Annesley-Setons--they had taken the Portman Square house
only month by month. And in Devonshire they had been but paying--dearly paying!--guests, as
the world surmised.

Everyone protested that they would be dreadfully missed, and begged to know their plans, and
whether Mr. Nelson Smith's business on the other side (something to do with mines, wasn't it?)
would not be finished, so that they might come back in time for Henley and Cowes?

But the American millionaire's answers were vague. He couldn't tell. He could only hope. And
his manner, unflatteringly, was indifferent. It was Mrs. Nelson Smith who seemed depressed;
"a changed girl," Constance said, "from the moment that cable message arrived at Valley House."

Connie thought, and mentioned her thought to others: very likely the truth was that Nelson
Smith had lost money. In contradiction to this theory he was known to have given generously
to charities just before starting; not those queer, new-fangled societies he had tried to bolster
up while he was in London, but hospitals and orphan asylums, and organizations of that sort
which opened their mouths wide.

Still, nobody could say for a certainty how much he gave, and it was argued that Lady Annesley-Seton
was sure to know more than most people about Nelson Smith's private affairs. The story of possible
money losses ran about and grew rapidly, healing regrets for his absence. Soon the pair dropped
out of their late friends' conversation as a subject of living interest.

It was much the same with the Countess de Santiago. Whether her plans were affected by those
of the Nelson Smiths, nobody knew; and she said that they were not. But about the time that
their departure for America was decided upon, Madalena had a sharp illness. It was, she wrote
Constance (who made inquiries, fearing something contagious), an unusual form of neuralgia,
from which she had suffered before. The only doctor who had ever been able to relieve her pain
lived in San Francisco, and in San Francisco she must seek him.

She had at first an idea of sailing on the same ship with the Nelson Smiths; but for a reason
which she did not explain, she changed her mind the day after making it up, and engaged a cabin
on a boat which started a week earlier.

She was missed, also, for a while. But then it was remembered that the crystal visions had
been mysteriously more favourable for those who included the Countess in their nicest parties
than for those who asked her to their second best. Little malicious digs which she had given
were recalled, and those who had thought her wonderful when in their midst began to doubt her
powers.

"Rather theatrical, don't you think?" said the Duchess of Peebles. "It's more satisfactory
to go to a woman you can pay with money and not invitations."

So Madalena was not mourned for long; and the Annesley-Setons were fortunate enough to replace
their lost American millionaire with one from Australia. He was old, and his wife was fat;
but you can't have everything.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Nelson Smiths took passage not on one of the great floating palaces patronized by millionaires,
but on an obscure, cheap little ship, which bore out the gossip about the man's losses. As
a matter of fact, however, they chose that way of going by Annesley's desire. It would have
been Knight's way to vanish in a blaze of glory, as the setting sun plunges behind the horizon
after a gorgeous day.

"I want to go on a ship," she said, "which none of the people we know have ever heard of. I
couldn't bear to come across anyone I ever met before."

But, as it turned out, she was forced to bear what she had thought unbearable. At the top of
the gangway as she went on board, a slightly shrill voice called out, "Why, how do you do!
Who would ever have thought of meeting you two expensive creatures on board this tub?"

With a sinking heart Annesley recognized a Mrs. Waldo, an American woman (there was a husband
in attendance) whom she and Knight had met during their honeymoon at the Knowle Hotel. The
pair had been so friendly and kind that the Nelson Smiths had asked them to Portman Square
more than once during the three gay months which followed.

But it was cruel, thought Annesley, that fate should bring them together again now, just when
she and the man she had married were at the parting of the ways.

Little had the girl dreamed when she first conceived a mild fancy for the pretty, smiling woman
and her silent, humorous husband, that the pair were destined to decide her future--decide
it in a way precisely opposite to that in which she had decided it herself. But so it was to be.

Mr. and Mrs. Waldo were returning to New York in its waning season because the decorating of
a house they had bought was just completed. They begged Annesley and Knight to be their first
visitors, and the invitation was given so unexpectedly that Annesley, taken unawares, found
herself at a loss.

"But I--I mean my husband--is going straight to Texas," she stammered.

"All the more reason, if he has to run off so far on business, and leaves you in New York,
that you should stay with us, instead of in a hotel," argued Mrs. Waldo.

Annesley blushed, and for the first time since Easter eve looked for help to Knight. But he
was silent, and she blundered on, not daring to pause lest the firm-willed little lady should
seal her to a promise in spite of herself.

"You're very kind, and it would be delightful," she hurried along, "but I didn't mean that
I was to stop in New York. I----"

"Oh, you are going together!" Mrs. Waldo caught her up. "I didn't understand. Well, I'm sorry
for our sakes. But couldn't you spare us two or three days before you start?"

"I--am afraid we must wait for another time," said Annesley. "My husband has business. He can't
waste a day----"

"Surely you won't turn your back on New York the day you arrive, the first time you've ever
seen it!" cried the New York woman. "Why, it's sacrilege! You must stay with us one night.
If you could see the darling new room we'll put you in: old rose and pearl gray, and Cupids
holding up the bed curtains!"

In desperation the girl stuck to her point, no longer daring to look at Knight.

"Indeed we mustn't stay, even for one night. If there's a train the same afternoon----"

"There's a lovely train," Mrs. Waldo admitted, unable to resist praising the American railway
system. "We call it the 'Limited.' You can have a beautiful stateroom, and run right through
to Chicago without changing. If they must go, we'll see them off, won't we, Steve?" with a
glance for the silent husband, "and bring them books and chocolates and flowers?"

What was left for Annesley to say? Short of informing the kindly couple that they were not
wanted and had better mind their own business, and refusing to decide upon a train, she could
do nothing except thank Mrs. Waldo.

"Perhaps," she thought, "they will forget, and things will settle themselves between now and
then. Or else I shall patch up some excuse."

When the invitation was given, the Minnewanda was still four days distant from New York; but
the four days, though seeming long, were not long enough to produce the prayed-for inspiration.
Mrs. Waldo referred to the journey whenever she saw Annesley, so there was no hope of her scheme
being forgotten; and the nearer loomed the new world, the more clearly the girl was forced
to see the thing to which a few hasty words had committed her.

She and Knight had staterooms adjoining, with a door between. That was to save appearances,
and it was no one's business that the door was never opened. In reality, they might as well
have had the length of the ship between their cabins.

Annesley kept to her own quarters as constantly as her jangled nerves would allow; but the
sea was provokingly smooth, and she proved to be a good sailor. She felt as if she might become
hysterical, and perhaps do something foolish, if she tried the experiment of shutting herself
up from morning to night. She paced the deck, therefore, and was dimly grateful to Knight because
he seemed always to be in the smoking room when she took her walks.

At meals, however, unless she ate in her stateroom, they could not avoid each other; and again
she felt cause for gratitude because Knight had accepted the Waldos' suggestion that they should
take a table for four. In spite of the Waldos' unwelcome attentions, their society was preferable--infinitely
preferable--to a duet with Knight.

They talked on such occasions; and the sharpest-eared scandal mongers could have guessed at
nothing strange from their manner. But, save at these luncheons and these dinners, they scarcely
spoke to each other.

Knight took his cue from Annesley. After the night when he had knelt at her feet and begged
her forgiveness he had never forced himself upon his wife. He seemed to have a dread of being
thought an intruder, and even withdrew his eyes guiltily if the girl caught him looking at
her with the old wistful gaze to whose mystery she had now a tragic clue.

Annesley hoped that, before they landed, Knight might make some opportunity to discuss ways
and means of getting out of the dilemma created by the Waldos. But he never attempted to begin
a conversation with her, and she put off the evil moment from day to day, telling herself that
there was time yet, and he had probably solved the problem--he, who was a specialist in solving
problems.

Loving the man no longer, her heart seeming to die anew whenever she even thought of him, there
remained still a ghost of her old trust; an almost resentful confidence that he who was so
clever, so hideously clever, would be capable of overcoming any difficulty.

"I told him that I'd go with him on the ship, and that then we must part," she assured herself,
lying awake at night, wondering feverishly what was to happen in New York. "He said we'd see
about all that later, but he must know by the way I act that I haven't changed my mind. He
will have to get me out of the trouble about the train."

The girl, in mapping the future, had thought of herself as being a governess for American children.
She did not know many things which governesses ought to know, but if the children were small
enough, she did not see why she mightn't do very well.

She could sing and play as nine girls out of ten could. She had been told that she had quite
a Parisian accent in French; and as for arithmetic and geography and other alarming things
which children ought to know and grown-up people forget, one could teach them with the proper
books.

Besides, she had heard that Americans liked to have English governesses for their children;
it was considered "smart."

She would go to an agent, and it ought to be easy to find a place in the country or suburbs.
It must not be New York, for fear of some chance meeting with the Waldos. But if worst came
to worst, and because of those everlasting Waldos she had to get into the train with Knight,
she would get out again at the first good-sized place where it stopped. There must be agencies
for governesses and companions in every large town. One would serve as well as another.

As for money, she knew that she must have some to go on with until she could begin to earn.
So far she had been forced to let Knight pay her way, as he said, out of the "good" fund. Her
coming with him had been for his sake, and to spare him from gossip. For herself, she was in
no mood to care what people said.

But now, in sailing to America as his wife, she had done all that she had ever promised to
do. He would have to arrange things as best he could.

Somehow the right time did not come to ask him what he intended to do; for at the table, or
if occasionally they were on deck together, they were never alone.

The ship docked late in the morning, and Knight was busy with the custom-house men. It was
noon when their luggage had been examined and could be sent away; and the Waldos, under letter
"W," were released at the same moment that the Nelson Smiths, under "S," were able to escape.

"Let's have lunch at the dear old Waldorf, our pet place and almost namesake," proposed Mrs.
Waldo. "You owe us that, after all the times you entertained us in London; and you really see
New York in the restaurant. You've nothing to do till your train goes this afternoon, and your
husband can get your reservations right there in the hotel."

Annesley's eyes went doubtfully to Knight's, and met a steady look which seemed to say that
he had made up his mind to some course.

"Very well, we shall be delighted," she said, resignedly. "Shall we meet at the--Waldorf--is
it?--at luncheon time?"

"Oh, my, no!" exclaimed the older woman, radiant in the joy of home coming. "It'll be lunch
time in an hour. You must taxi up to Sixty-first Street with us, and just glance at the house,
or we shall be so hurt. Then we'll spin you down to the hotel again in no time. I wish we could
feed you at home, but nothing will be in shape there till to-night."

There was still no chance for Annesley to ask Knight the long-delayed question. They saw and
duly admired the Waldos' house, and took another taxi to the hotel, the Nelson Smiths' luggage
having been "expressed" to the Grand Central, to await them. Steve Waldo tried to engage his
favourite table, and Mrs. Waldo suggested that it would be a good moment to get the reservations.

Again Annesley's startled glance turned to Knight. Again his eyes answered with decision. This
time there was no longer any doubt in the girl's mind. The Waldos, persistent to the last,
would compel her to leave New York with her husband.

But whatever happened she would part with him forever before darkness fell. "At the first big
town," she told herself once more.

They were at the desired table, which Steve had secured, when Knight rejoined them, announcing
that he had his tickets.

"I hope you were able to get a nice stateroom?" fussed Mrs. Waldo. "Such a long journey, and
Mrs. Smith's first day in our country!"

"Yes. Everything satisfactory," said Knight, in the calm way which Annesley had once admired.

Mrs. Waldo would have asked more questions if at that moment her eyes had not lighted upon
a couple at an adjacent table.

"Well, of all things!" she cried, jumping up to meet a pretty girl and a spruce young man,
who had also jumped up. "George and Kitty Mason! What a coincidence!"

There were kissings and handshakings. Then Mr. and Mrs. Mason were introduced to Mr. and Mrs.
Nelson Smith. They, it seemed, had been married in the early winter, just as Knight and Annesley
had been. And to add to the strangeness of the coincidence, which drew birdlike exclamations
from Jean Waldo, George and Kitty were starting for Kansas City that afternoon. They were going
by the same train in which the Nelson Smiths would travel.

"Why, you'll be together for two days!" shrieked Jean. "For goodness' sake, look at your reservations,
and see if you're in the same car!"

George Mason pulled out his tickets. "We're in a boudoir car all the way," he said. "We start
in one called 'Elena.' After Chicago we're in 'Alvarado.'" Knight followed suit, not ungraciously,
though without enthusiasm. Annesley's heart was tapping like a hammer in her breast. She felt
giddy. There was a mist before her eyes; yet she saw clearly enough to see that there were
two railway tickets, alike in every way, even to what seemed their extraordinary length. A
flashing glance gave her the name of the last station, at the end. It was in Texas.

And their two staterooms were also in "Elena" and "Alvarado."

CHAPTER XXIII

THE THIN WALL

"How dared he buy a ticket for me all the way to Texas!" Annesley asked herself. "But I might
have known how it would be," she thought. "Why expect a man like him to keep a promise?"

Yet she had expected it. She constantly found herself expecting to find truth and greatness
in the man who was a thief--who had been a thief for half his life. It was strange. But everything
about him was strange; and stranger than the rest was his silent power over all who came near
him, even over herself, who knew now what he was. It would have seemed that after his confession
there would be no further room for disappointment concerning his character; yet she was disappointed
that his "plan," on which she had been counting, had been nothing more original than to break
his word and "see what she would do."

After luncheon, when the Waldos and Masons became absorbed for a few minutes in talk, she turned
a look on her husband. "I saw the tickets," she said.

"Did you?" he returned, pretending--as she thought--not to understand.

"You bought one for me to Texas."

"Of course. Did you think I wouldn't? That would have been poor economy in the game we've been
playing."

It was her turn to show that she was puzzled. "What do you mean?"

"You never cared to talk things over. I saw you didn't want to, so I didn't press. And when
this complication about the Waldos came up, I thought--perhaps I was mistaken--that you--trusted
me to do the best I could."

"Yes. That's why I expected you not to get me a ticket to Texas."

"How far did you expect me to get it?"

"I--don't know."

"That's just it. Neither did I know. I got the whole ticket, so you might choose your stopping-place."

"Oh!" Annesley was ashamed, though she was sure she had no need to be. "That was why!"

"That was why. Things being as they are, it was well I had your ticket to show with mine, wasn't
it?"

"I--suppose so. But--what am I to do?"

"We'll talk of that in the train. There won't be time before, because of these people, and
because I must leave you for two hours before the train goes."

"Leave me!" Annesley echoed the words blankly, then hoped that he had not noticed the dismay
in her tone.

"You will be all right with the Waldos and their friends. I'll explain to them. There's no
time to lose. I must go off at once."

Annesley was pricked with curiosity to know why and where he must go. She would not ask. But
while he was away and she was being whirled through the park and along Riverside Drive at lightning
speed, "to see New York in a hurry," her thoughts were with her husband, imagining fantastic
things.

"My mind is like a ghost," she thought, bitterly, "haunting what once it loved. It seems doomed
to follow wherever he goes, whatever he does. But it will be different when we're parted. I
shall escape in soul and body. I shall have my own life to live."

"That wonderful Italian house," Mrs. Waldo was saying, as the taxi slowed down for one of her
lectures, "is Paul Van Vreck's New York home. They say it's a museum from garret to cellar
(not that there is a garret!), and I believe it's a copy of some palazzo in Venice. It's shut
up now; perhaps he's in Florida, or Egypt, where he--but look, somebody's coming out--why,
Mrs. Nelson Smith, it's your husband! Shall we stop----"

"No, let's drive on," Annesley begged, anxiously. "My husband knows Mr. Van Vreck. They have
business together. He won't want us."

The taxi was allowed to go on to the next place of interest. Annesley had flung herself back
in the seat, but she was not sure that Knight hadn't seen her. She knew what powers of observation
his quiet almost lazy manner could hide.

This chance meeting took place on the way to the Grand Central Station, where they met the
Masons, and were joined almost at the last moment by Knight, just as Annesley had begun to
wonder if, after all, he were not coming.

He was as calm as though there were no haste, and said he had been delayed in collecting the
luggage from the ship. He had a good deal to say about that luggage; and what with thanks to
the Waldos for books and flowers and chocolates, and their kindness to Annesley, Mrs. Waldo
(with the best intentions) found no chance to mention Paul Van Vreck.

Annesley had not meant to refer to him, though seeing Knight come out of his shut-up house
had given her a shivering sense of mystery; but when the train had started, Knight came to
the door of her stateroom.

"There are one or two things I should like to speak to you about, if you don't mind," he said,
in the kind yet distant manner which had replaced the old lover-like way when they were alone
together.

"Come in," she replied, and added, lowering her voice: "Mr. and Mrs. Mason are next door."

"They are too much in love to be thinking about us, or listening," he answered; and Annesley
imagined a ring of bitterness in his tone. "I've come to talk over plans, but before we begin
I want to explain something. Once you made a guess in connection with Paul Van Vreck. Probably
you think that what you saw confirms it. Of course, the Waldos were telling you whose house
it was; and as luck would have it, I came out at that instant.

"Whether there was anything in your guess or not doesn't matter. You're too sensible to mention
it to any one except me. But I can't have you torturing yourself with the idea that such dealings
as you imagine with Van Vreck are still going on, if they ever did go on. Because I have faith
in your discretion, and because I owe it to you, I'm going to explain why I went to Van Vreck's
house this afternoon--why I was obliged to go. I knew he would have got back from Florida.
I hear from him sometimes, and I had to tell him that any business I'd ever done for him was
done for the last time, because--I was going to settle down to ranch life in Texas.

"Also I handed to him the Malindore diamond. His firm lost it. His firm has by this time been
paid the insurance. It's up to him how to dispose of the property.

"That's all I have to say about Van Vreck. I thought in fairness you ought to know that I didn't
keep the diamond. And I thought I might tell you that my call at Van Vreck's didn't mean entering
any new deal."

"Thank you," Annesley said, stiffly. "I am glad."

She was glad, yet she wished the man to understand how impersonal was her gladness; how impossible
it was that any atonement could bring them together again in spirit; how dead was the past
which he had slain. And he did understand as clearly from her few words as if she had preached
him an hour's sermon.

"Now, for what you are to do," he went on, crisply. "Although you and I never discussed the
situation on board ship, I realized what the Waldos were letting you in for. I supposed you'd
feel that your staying in New York was out of the question. I bought our tickets to Texas.
At the same time I got a map and a guide-book which gives information about places on the way
and beyond.

"The Masons being on the train to Kansas City was a new complication. But it wasn't my fault.
And it only means that the game of keeping up appearances must be played a little farther.

"Would you like to go to California? If you want to take back your maiden name and be Miss
Grayle--or if you care to have a new name to begin a new life with, a quite respectable fellow
called Michael Donaldson could introduce you to a few influential people in Los Angeles. No
danger of meeting Madalena de Santiago there, though it's only a day's journey from San Francisco,
where she's very likely arrived by this time. She has reasons for not liking Los Angeles. In
her early days she had some--er-financial troubles there, and she wouldn't enjoy being reminded
of them."

"Is Los Angeles farther than El Paso?" Annesley inquired, keeping her voice steady, though
there was a sickly chill in her heart.

"A good way farther," Knight went on, in the same businesslike tone which separated him thousands
of miles from the Knight she used to know. "Here, I'll show you how the land lies."

Opening a map of a western railroad, he drew a little closer to her on the seat, and pointed
out place after place along the black line; told her when they would arrive at Kansas City,
and how they would go on without change to Albuquerque.

