The Spanish Court at the late Fisheries Exhibition was large and well furnished, there being
several characteristic models of vessels. No certain figures can be obtained of the results
of the whole fishing industry of Spain. It is, however, estimated that 14,202 boats, with a
tonnage of 51,397 tons, were employed during the year 1882. They gave occupation to 59,974
men, and took about 78,000 tons of fish. The Government interfere in the fishing industry only
to the extent of collecting and distributing information to the fishermen on subjects that
are most likely to be of use to them in their calling. In consequence, principally no doubt
of this wise policy, we find in Spain a vigorous and self-reliant class of men engaged in the
fisheries. Some of the most interesting features in the Spanish Court were the contributions
sent by the different fishermen's associations, and although the Naval Museum of Madrid supplied
a collection of articles that would have formed a good basis in itself for an exhibition, yet
in no other foreign court was the fishing industry of the nation better illustrated by private
enterprise than in that of Spain. The fishing associations referred to are half benefit societies
and half trading communities. That of Lequeito has issued a small pamphlet, from which we learn
that this body consists of 600 members divided into three classes, viz., owners of vessels,
patrons or men in charge, and ordinary fishermen. A board of directors, consisting of 22 owners,
and 24 masters of boats or ordinary fishermen, has the sole control of the affairs of the society.
The meetings are presided over by a majordomo elected triennially, and who must be the owner
of a boat over 40 ft. long. This functionary receives a stipend of 8,000 reales a year, a sum
which sounds more modest when expressed as 80l. He has two clerks, who are on the permanent
staff, to help him. His duties are to keep the books with the assistance of the two clerks,
to take charge of the sales of all fish, recover moneys, and make necessary payments. In stormy
weather he gets up in a watch tower and guides boats entering the harbor. The atalayero is
an official of the society, whose duty it is to station himself on the heights and signal by
means of smoke, to the boats at sea, the movements of schools of sardines and anchovies or
probable changes of weather. It is also the duty of this officer to weigh all the bream caught
from the 1st November to the 31st of March, for which he receives a "gratuity" of 100 pesetas,
or say 4l., sterling. Two other señeros, or signalmen, are told off to keep all boats in port
during bad weather, and to call together the crews when circumstances appear favorable for
sailing. Should there be a difference of opinion between these experts as to the meteorological
probabilities, the patrons, or skippers of the fishing-boats, are summoned in council and their
opinion taken by "secret vote with black and white balls." The decision so arrived at is irrevocable,
and all are bound to sail should it be so decided; those who do not do so paying a fine to
the funds of the association. The boats carrying the señeros fly a color by means of which
they signal orders for sailing to the other vessels. These señeros appear to be the Spanish
equivalent to the English admiral of a trawling fleet.

The boats used by these fishermen are fine craft; one or two models of them were shown in the
Exhibition. A first-class boat will be of about the following dimensions: Length over all,
45 ft. to 50 ft.; breadth (extreme), 9 ft. to 10 ft. 3 in.; depth (inside), 3 ft. 10 in. to
4 ft. The keel is of oak 6 in. by 3½ in. The stem and stern posts are also of oak. The planking
is generally of oak or walnut--the latter preferred--and is 3 in. thick, the width of the planks
being 4½ in. Many boats are now constructed of hard wood to the water line and Norway pine above.

The fastenings are galvanized nails 4½ in. long. The mast-partners and all the thwarts are
of oak 1½ in. thick and 8 in. wide; the latter are fastened in with iron knees. Lee-board and
rudder are of oak, walnut, or chestnut; the rudder extends 3½ ft. to 4 ft. below the keel,
and, in giving lateral resistance, balances the lee-board, which is thrust down forward under
the lee-bow. The rig consists of two lags, the smaller one forward right in the eyes of the
boat; the mainmast being amidships. The lug sails are set on long yards, the fair-weather rig
consisting of a fore lug with 120 square yards, and a main lug of 200 square yards. There are
six shifts of sail, the main being substituted for the fore lug in turn as the weather increases,
in a manner similar to that in which our own Mounts Bay boats reduce canvas. The fair weather
rig requires two masts 42 ft. and 36 ft. long, and yards 28 ft. and 30 ft. long, respectively.
The oars are 16 ft. long, and are pulled double-banked. Such a boat will cost 90l. to 100l.
fitted for sea, of which sum the hull will represent rather more than half. These vessels generally
remain at sea for twelve hours, from about three to four in the morning until the same time
in the evening. Tunny, merluza (a species of cod), and bream are the principal fish taken.
The first-named are caught by hook and line operated by means of poles rigged out from the
boat much in the same way, apparently, as we drail for mackerel on the southwest coast. A filament
of maize straw is used for bait. The boat sails to a distance of about 90 miles off the land
and run back before the prevailing wind, until they are about nine miles from the shore or
until they lose the fish. When the fisherman gets a bite the wind is spilled out of the sail
so as to deaden the boat's way. The fish is then got alongside, promptly gaffed, and got on
board. Tunny sells for about three halfpence a pound in Lequeito. The season extends from June
to November. Bream are taken in the winter and spring, 9 to 12 miles off the coast. They are
caught by hook and line in two ways. The first is worth describing. A line 50 fathoms long
has bent to it snoods with hooks attached, 16 in. apart. Each man handles three lines. On reaching
the fishing ground the line, to the end of which a stone is attached, is gradually paid out
until soundings are taken; then another stone is attached and the operation repeated. If a
bite is felt the line is slacked away freely, and this goes on until about 500 fathoms are
overboard. When, by the lively and continuous jerking of the line, the fisherman concludes
that he has a good number of fish on the hooks, he will haul aboard and then prepare to shoot
again.

The second method of taking the bream is by long lining; fifty of the lines we have just described
being bent together and duly anchored and buoyed. Spaniards do not much care for this way of
fishing, as it is costly in bait and the gear is often lost in bad weather. Bream sells at
about 3½d. a pound. Cod are taken during the first six months of the year, about 9 miles off
shore, by hand lines. Sold fresh the price is about 6d. per lb. A small quantity is preserved
in tins. Anchovy or cuttlefish is the bait used; sometimes the two are placed on one hook.

A smaller description of boat, called traineras, is built especially for taking sardine and
anchovy, although in fine weather they often engage in the same fishery as the larger boats.
The traineras are light and shapely vessels, with a graceful sheer and curved stem and stern
posts. The keel is much cambered, and the bottom is flat and has considerable hollow. The usual
dimensions vary between: Length, 38 feet to 42 feet; beam, 7 feet to 7 feet 6 inches; depth,
2 feet 6 inches to 2 feet 10 inches. The sails and gear are much the same as in the larger
boats, excepting that there are only four shifts in place of six. The largest main lug has
an area of about 90 square yards and the fore lug about 50 square yards. The other sails for
heavier weather are naturally smaller. The largest masts for fine weather are respectively
36 feet and 22 feet, long. The average cost of one of these boats and gear is about £122, made
up as follows: Hull, £32; sails, gear, and oars, £30; nets and gear attached, £60. The season
for anchovy fishing commences on the 1st of March and ends 30th of June; it begins again on
the 15th of September, and continues until the end of the year. Most fish are taken at a distance
of about 9 miles from the land, although they often come in much closer. Anchovies are sold
fresh, or are salted to be sent away, some are used for bait, and in times of great plenty
quantities are put on the land for manure. The greater part are, however, preserved in barrels
or tins, and are exported to France or England.

The net used in the capture of anchovies is called traina or copo. It is in principle like
the celebrated purse seine of the United States, but in place of being 200 fathoms long, as
are many of the nets, which, in American waters, will inclose a whole school of mackerel, it
is but 32 to 40 fathoms long. The depth is 7 to 10 fathoms, and the mesh ¾ inch. Sardine fishing
commences on the 1st of July and lasts until December. The principal ground is 2 to 10 miles
off shore. The price of sardines on the coast is about 2½d. per pound. When the sardines appear
in shoals they are taken with the traina in the same way as anchovies, a net of ½-inch mesh
being used. Sardines are also taken by gill nets about 200 feet long and 18 feet wide. When
used in the daytime the fish are tolled up by a bait consisting of the liver of cod. When the
sardines have been attracted to the neighborhood of the net, bait is thrown on the other side
of it. The fish in their rush for the bait become entangled in the mesh. These nets are sometimes
anchored out all night, in which case no bait is used.

A third class of boats of much the same character are of about the following dimensions: Length,
28 feet to 35 feet; beam, 7 feet 6 inches to 8 feet; depth, 2 feet 6 inches to 2 feet 8 inches.
The two lugs will contain 16 and 30 square yards of canvas respectively. They are used for
sardine catching, when they will carry a crew of four men, or for taking conger and cod, in
which case they will be manned by eight hands.

Their cost will average approximately as follows: Hull, £15; gear and sail, £10; nets and lines,
£13; about £40. The conger season extends from March to June, and from October to November.
The fish are taken by hook and line; sardine and fish known as berdel (which in turn is taken
by a hook covered with a feather) are used as bait.

There are other smaller fishing boats, among which may be noticed the bateler, a powerful little
vessel, 13 feet to 16 ft. long, about 5½ ft. wide, and 2 ft. deep. They are sailed by one man,
set a good spread of canvas, and are fast and handy. They are used for taking a species of
cuttlefish which supplies a bait, and is caught by hook and line, the fishes being attracted
by colored threads, at which they rush, when the hook will catch in their tentacles. There
is a small well in the middle of the boat for keeping the fish alive. None of the boats on
the northern coast of Spain carry ballast. They have flat hollow floors, and set a large area
of of canvas on a shallow draught. Lobster fishing is pursued in much the same manner as in
England, but often four or five miles from land, and in very deep water.

One of the most noticeable objects in the Spanish court was a full-sized boat about 25 ft.
long, which had a square hole cut in the bottom amidships. Through this hole was let down a
glass frame in which was placed a powerful paraffine lamp. The object of this was to attract
the fish. It is said that tunny will be drawn from a distance of over a hundred yards, and
will follow the boat so that they may be enticed into the nets. Sardines and other fish will
follow the light in shoals. It is claimed that the boat will be useful in diving operations,
for pearl or coral fishing, or for ascertaining the direction of submarine currents, which
can be seen at night by a lamp to a depth to 25 to 30 fathoms.--Engineering.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUCK SHOOTING AT MONTAUK.

Montauk Point, Long Island, is the most isolated and desolate spot imaginable during this weather.
The frigid monotony of winter has settled down upon that region, and now it is haunted only
by sea fowl. The bleak, barren promontory whereon stands the light is swept clean of its summer
dust by the violent raking of cold hurricanes across it, and coated with ice from the wind-dashed
spume of the great breakers hurled against the narrow sand spit which makes the eastern terminus
of the island. The tall, white towered light and its black lantern, now writhing in frosty
northern blizzards, and again shivering in easterly gales, now glistening with ice from the
tempest tossed seas all about it, and now varnished with wreaths of fog, is the only habitation
worthy of the name for many miles around. Keeper Clark and his family and assistants are almost
perpetually fenced in from the outside world by the cold weather, and have to hug closely the
roaring fires that protect them in that desolation.

But for ducks and the duck hunter the lighthouse family would die of inanition. With the cold
weather comes the ducks, and they continue to come till the warmer blasts of spring drive them
to the northward. Montauk Point is a favorite haunt for this sort of wild fowl. It is a good
feeding ground, is isolated, and there is nearly always a weather shore for the flocks to gather
under. But year by year the point is being more and more frequented by sportsmen, and the reports
of their successes increase the applicants for lodgings at the light. Some 20 gunners were
out there last week with the most improved paraphernalia for the sport, and did telling work.
Flight shooting is the favorite method of taking them. The light stands very near the end of
the point, about a sixteenth of a mile to the west, and all migratory birds in passing south
seem to have it down in their log-book that they must not only sight this structure, but must
also fly over it as nearly as possible. Hence the variety and extent of the flocks which are
continually passing is a matter of interest and wonder to a student of natural history as well
as to the sportsman. Coots, whistlers, soft bills, old squaws, black ducks, cranes, belated
wild geese, and, in fact, all sorts of northern birds make up this long and strange procession,
and the air is frequently so densely packed with them as to be actually darkened, while the
keen, whistling music of their whizzing wings makes a melody that comparatively few landsmen
ever hear. Millions of the birds never hesitate at this point in their flight, although thousands
of them do. These latter make the neighboring waters their home for the rest of the winter.
Great flocks of ducks are continually sailing about the rugged shores, and the frozen cranberry
marshes of Fort Pond Bay, lying to the westward, are their favorite feeding-grounds. The birds
are always as fat as butter when making their flight, and their piquant, spicy flavor leads
to their being barbecued by the wholesale at the seat of shooting operations. One of the gunner's
cabins has nailed up in it the heads of 345 ducks that have been roasted on the Point this winter.

Early morning is the favorite time for shooting. At daybreak the flights are heavy, and from
that time until seven o'clock in the morning they increase until it seems as though all the
flocks which had spent the night in the caves and ponds on the Connecticut shore were on the
wing and away for the south. By ten o'clock in the forenoon the flights grow rarer, and the
rest of the day only stragglers come along. A good gunner can take five dozen of these birds
easily in a morning's work, provided he can and will withstand the inclemency of the weather.

Keeper Clark never shoots ducks. Scarcely a morning has dawned for two months but that several
of the poor birds have been picked up at the foot of the light house tower with the broken
necks which have mutely told the story of death, reached by plunging headlong against the crystal
walls of the dazzling lantern overhead the night before. There is a tendency with such migratory
birds as are on the wing at night to fly very high. But the great, glaring, piercing, single
eye of Montauk light seems to draw into it by dozens, as a loadstone pulls a magnet, its feathered
victims, and they swerve in their course and make straight for it. As they flash nearer and
nearer, the light, of course, grows brighter and brighter, and at length they dash into what
appears a sea of fire, to be crushed lifeless by the heavy glass, and they fall to the ground
below, ready to be plucked for the oven. Inside the lantern the thud made by these birds when
they strike is readily felt. Although they are comparatively small, yet so great is their velocity
that the impact creates a perceptible jar, and the lantern is disfigured with plashes of their
blood. Upon stormy and foggy nights the destruction of birds is found to be greatest. When
the weather is clear and fair many smaller birds, like robins, sparrows, doves, cuckoos, rail,
snipe, etc., will circle about the light all night long, leaving only when the light is extinguished
in the morning. Large cranes show themselves to be almost dangerous visitors. Recently one
of these weighing 40 pounds struck the wrought iron guard railing about the lantern with such
force as to bend the iron slats and to completely sever his long neck from his body.--N.Y. Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

[THE GARDEN.]

THE HORNBEAMS.

The genus Carpinis is widely distributed throughout the temperate regions of the northern hemisphere.
There are nine species known to botanists, most of them being middle-sized trees. In addition
to those mentioned below, figures of which are herewith given, there are four species from
Japan and one from the Himalayan region which do not yet seem to have found their way to this
country; these five are therefore omitted. All are deciduous trees, and every one is thoroughly
deserving of cultivation. The origin of the English name is quaintly explained by Gerard in
his "Herbal" as follows: "The wood," he says, "in time, waxeth so hard, that the toughness
and hardness of it may be rather compared to horn than unto wood, and therefore it was called
horne-beam or hardbeam."

Carpinus Betulus,[1] the common hornbeam, as is the case with so many of our native or widely
cultivated trees, exhibits considerable variation in habit, and also in foliage characters.
Some of the more striking of these, those which have received names in nurseries, etc., and
are propagated on account of their distinctive peculiarities, are described below. In a wild
state C. Betulus occurs in Europe from Gothland southward, and extends also into West Asia.
Although apparently an undoubted native in the southern counties of England, it appears to
have no claim to be considered indigenous as far as the northern counties are concerned; it
has also been planted wherever it occurs in Ireland.

  [Footnote 1: IDENTIFICATION.--Carpinus Betulus, L., Loudon,
  "Arboretum et Fruticetum Britannicum," vol. iii., p. 2004; Encycl.
  of Trees and Shrubs, 917. Boswell Syme, "English Botany," vol.
  viii., p. 176, tab. 1293; Koch, "Dendrologie," zweit. theil.
  zweit. abtheil., p. 2: Hooker, "Student's Flora of the British
  Islands," ed. 2, p. 365. C. Carpinizza, Host., "Flora Austriaca,"
  ii., p. 626. C. intermedia. Wierbitzsky in Reichb Ic. fl. Germ. et
  Helvet., xxii. fig. 1297.]

Few trees bear cutting so well as the hornbeam, and for this reason, during the reign of the
topiarist, it was held in high repute for the formation of the "close alleys," "covert alleys,"
or the "thick-pleached alleys," frequently mentioned in Shakespeare and in the works of other
authors about three centuries ago. In the sixteenth century the topiary art had reached its
highest point of development, and was looked upon as the perfection of gardening; the hornbeam--and
indeed almost every other tree--was cut and tortured into every imaginable shape. The "picturesque
style," however, soon drove the topiarist and his art out of the field, yet even now places
still remain in England where the old and once much-belauded fashion still exists on a large
scale--a fact by no means to be deplored from an archæological point of view. Dense, quaintly-shaped
hornbeam hedges are not unfrequent in the gardens of many old English mansions, and in some
old country farmhouses the sixteenth century craze is still perpetuated on a smaller scale.

Sir J.E. Smith, in his "English Flora," after enumerating the virtues of the hornbeam as a
hedge plant, gives it as his opinion that "when standing by itself and allowed to take its
natural form, the hornbeam makes a much more handsome tree than most people are aware of."
Those who are familiar with the fine specimens which exist at Studley Park and elsewhere will
have no hesitation in confirming Sir J.E. Smith's statement. The Hornbeam Walk in Richmond
Park, from Pembroke Lodge toward the Ham Gate, will recur to many Southerners as a good instance
of the fitness of the hornbeam for avenues. In the walk in question there are many fine trees,
which afford a thorough and agreeable shade during the summer months.

In any soil or position the hornbeam will grow readily, except exceedingly dry or too marshy
spots. On chalky hillsides it does not grow so freely as on clayey plains. Under the latter
conditions, however, the wood is not so good. In mountainous regions the hornbeam occupies
a zone lower than that appropriated by the beech, rarely ascending more than 1,200 yards above
sea level. It is not injured by frost, and in Germany is often seen fringing the edges of the
beech forests along the bottom of the valleys where the beech would suffer. Scarcely any tree
coppices more vigorously or makes more useful pollards on dry grass land.

On account of its great toughness the wood of the hornbeam is employed in engineering work
for cogs in machinery. When subjected to vertical pressure it cannot be completely destroyed;
its fibers, instead of breaking off short, double up like threads, a conclusive proof of its
flexibility and fitness for service in machinery (Laslett's "Timber and Timber Trees"). According
to the same recent authority, the vertical or crushing strain on cubes of 2 inches average
14.844 tons, while that on cubes of 1 inch is 3.711 tons.

A few years ago an English firm required a large quantity of hornbeam wood for the manufacture
of lasts, but failed to procure it in England. They succeeded, however, in obtaining a supply
from France, where large quantities of this timber are used for that purpose. It may be interesting
to state that in England at any rate lasts are no longer made to any extent by hand, but are
rapidly turned in enormous numbers by machinery. In France sabots are also made of hornbeam
wood, but the difficulty in working it and its weight render it less valuable for sabotage
than beech. For turnery generally, cabinet making, and also for agricultural implements, etc.,
this wood is highly valued; in some of the French winegrowing districts, viz., Côte d'Or and
Yonne, hoops for the wine barrels are largely made from this tree. It makes the best fuel and
it is preferred to every other for apartments, as it lights easily, makes a bright flame, which
burns equally, continues a long time, and gives out an abundance of heat. "Its charcoal is
highly esteemed, and in France and Switzerland it is preferred to most others, not only for
forges and for cooking by, but for making gunpowder, the workmen at the great gunpowder manufactory
at Berne rarely using any other. The inner bark, according to Linnæus, is used for dyeing yellow.
The leaves, when dried in the sun, are used in France as fodder; and when wanted for use in
water, the young branches are cut off in the middle of summer, between the first and second
growth, and strewed or spread out in some place which is completely sheltered from the rain
to dry without the tree being in the slightest degree injured by the operation." (Dict. des
Eaux et Forêts, art. Charme, as quoted by London).

It hardly seems necessary to dwell upon the value of the hornbeam as a hedge or shelter plant.
In many nurseries it is largely used for these purposes, the russet-brown leaves remaining
on the twigs until displaced by the new growths in spring.

Var. incisa (Aiton, "Hortus Kewensis," v., 301; C. asplenifolia, Hort.; C. laciniata, Hort.).--These
three names represent two forms, which are, however, so near each other, that for all practical
purposes they are identical. A glance at the accompanying figure will show how distinct and
ornamental this variety is.

Var. quercifolia (Desf. tabl. de l'ecol. de bot. du Mus. d'hist. nat., 213; Ostrya quercifolia,
Hort.; Carpinus heterophylla, Hort.)--This form, as will be seen by the figure, is thoroughly
distinct from the common hornbeam; it has very much smaller leaves than the type, their outline,
as implied by the varietal name, resembling that of the foliage of the oak. It frequently reverts
to the type, and, as far as my experience goes, appears to be much less fixed than the variety
incisa.

Var. purpurea (Hort.).--The young leaves of this are brownish red; it is well worth growing
for the pleasing color effect produced by the young growths in spring. Apart from color it
does not differ from the type.

Var. fastigiata (Hort.).--In this variety the branches are more ascending and the habit altogether
more erect; indeed, among the hornbeams this is a counterpart of the fastigiate varieties of
the common oak.

Var. variegata, aureo-variegata, albo-variegata (albo-marmorata).--These names represent forms
differing so slightly from each other, that it is not worth while to notice them separately,
or even to treat them as distinct. In no case that I have seen is the variegation at all striking,
and, except in tree collections, variegated hornbeams are hardly worth growing.

Carpinus orientalis[2] (the Oriental hornbeam) principally differs from our native species
in its smaller size, the lesser leaves with downy petioles, and the green, much-lacerated bractlets.
It is a native of the south of Europe, whence it extends to the Caucasus, and probably also
to China; the Carpinus Turczaninovi of Hance scarcely seems to differ, in any material point
at any rate, from western examples of C. orientalis. According to Loudon, it was introduced
to this country by Philip Miller in 1739, and there is no doubt that it is far from common
even now. It is, however, well worth growing; the short twiggy branches, densely clothed with
dark green leaves, form a thoroughly efficient screen. The plant bears cutting quite as well
as the common hornbeam, and wherever the latter will grow this will also succeed. In that very
interesting compilation, "Hortus Collinsonianus," the following memorandum occurs: "The Eastern
hornbeam was raised from seed sent me from Persia, procured by Dr. Mounsey, physician to the
Czarina. Received it August 2, 1751, and sowed it directly; next year (1752) the hornbeam came
up, which was the original of all in England. Mr. Gordon soon increased it, and so it came
into the gardens of the curious. At the same time, from the same source, were raised a new
acacia, a quince, and a bermudiana, the former very different from any in our gardens." This
memorandum was probably written from recollection long afterward, with an error in the dates,
and the species was first entered in the catalogue as follows: "Azad, arbor persica carpinus
folio, Persian hornbeam, raised from seed, anno 1747; not in England before." It appears, however,
from Rand's "Index" that there was a plant of it in the Chelsea Garden in 1739. The name duinensis
was given by Scopoli, because of his having first found it wild at Duino. As, however, Miller
had previously described it under the name orientalis, that one is adopted in accordance with
the rule of priority, by which must be decided all such questions in nomenclature.

  [Footnote 2: IDENTIFICATION.--Carpinus orientalis. Miller,
  "Gardener's Dictionary," ed. 6 1771; La Marck, Dict, i., 107;
  Watson, "Dendrologia Britannica," ii., tab. 98; Reich. Ic. fl.
  Germ. et Helvet., xxii., fig, 1298; Tenore, "Flora Neapolitana,"
  v., 264; Loudon, Arb. et Fruticet. Brit., iii., 2014, Encycl.
  Trees and Shrubs, p. 918; Koch, "Dendrologie." zweit, theil zweit,
  abtheil, p. 4. C. duinensis, Scopoli, "Flora Carniolica," 2 ed.,
  ii., 243, tab. 60; Bertoloni, "Flora Italica," x., 233; Alph. De
  Candolle in Prodr., xvi. (ii.), 126.]

The American Hornbeam [3] also known under the names of blue beech, water beech, and iron wood,
although a less tree than our native species, which it resembles a good deal in size of foliage
and general aspect, is nevertheless a most desirable one for the park or pleasure ground, on
account of the gorgeous tint assumed by the decaying leaves in autumn. Emerson, in his "Trees
and Shrubs of Massachusetts," pays a just tribute to this tree from a decorative standpoint.
He says: "The crimson, scarlet, and orange of its autumnal colors, mingling into a rich purplish
red, as seen at a distance, make it rank in splendor almost with the tupelo and the scarlet
oak. It is easily cultivated, and should have a corner in every collection of trees." It has
pointed, ovate oblong, sharply double serrate, nearly smooth leaves. The acute bractlets are
three-lobed, halberd-shaped, sparingly cut-toothed on one side. Professor C.S. Sargent, in
his catalogue of the "Forest Trees-of North America," gives the distribution, etc., of the
American hornbeam as follows: "Northern Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, through the valley of
St. Lawrence and Lower Ottawa Rivers, along the northern shores of Lake Huron to Northern Wisconsin
and Minnesota; south to Florida and Eastern Texas. Wood resembling that of ostrya (hop hornbeam).
At the north generally a shrub or small tree, but becoming, in the Southern Alleghany Mountains,
a tree sometimes 50 feet in height, with a trunk 2 feet to 3 feet in diameter." It will almost
grow in any soil or exposition in this country.

  [Footnote 3: IDENTIFICATION.--Carpinius caroliniana, Walter,
  "Flora Caroliniana," 236; C. americana, Michx. fl. bor. Amer.,
  ii., 201; Mich. f. Hist. des. Arbres Forestiers de l'Amerique
  Septentrionale, iii., 57, tab. 8; Watson, "Dendrologia
  Britannica," ii., 157; Gray, "Manual of the Botany of the Northern
  United States," p. 457.]

