POSTHUMOUS WORKS

OF

MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT GODWIN.

VOL. I.

POSTHUMOUS WORKS

OF THE

AUTHOR

OF A

VINDICATION OF THE RIGHTS OF WOMAN.

IN FOUR VOLUMES.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOL. I.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON:

PRINTED FOR J. JOHNSON, NO. 72, ST. PAUL'S
  CHURCH-YARD; AND G. G. AND J. ROBINSON,
              PATERNOSTER-ROW.
                   1798.

THE

WRONGS OF WOMAN:

OR,

MARIA.

A FRAGMENT.

IN TWO VOLUMES.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOL. I.

PREFACE.

THE public are here presented with the last literary attempt of an author, whose fame has been
uncommonly extensive, and whose talents have probably been most admired, by the persons by
whom talents are estimated with the greatest accuracy and discrimination. There are few, to
whom her writings could in any case have given pleasure, that would have wished that this fragment
should have been suppressed, because it is a fragment. There is a sentiment, very dear to minds
of taste and imagination, that finds a melancholy delight in contemplating these unfinished
productions of genius, these sketches of what, if they had been filled up in a manner adequate
to the writer's conception, would perhaps have given a new impulse to the manners of a world.

The purpose and structure of the following work, had long formed a favourite subject of meditation
with its author, and she judged them capable of producing an important effect. The composition
had been in progress for a period of twelve months. She was anxious to do justice to her conception,
and recommenced and revised the manuscript several different times. So much of it as is here
given to the public, she was far from considering as finished, and, in a letter to a friend
directly written on this subject, she says, "I am perfectly aware that some of the incidents
ought to be transposed, and heightened by more harmonious shading; and I wished in some degree
to avail myself of criticism, before I began to adjust my events into a story, the outline
of which I had sketched in my mind[x-A]." The only friends to whom the author communicated
her manuscript, were Mr. Dyson, the translator of the Sorcerer, and the present editor; and
it was impossible for the most inexperienced author to display a stronger desire of profiting
by the censures and sentiments that might be suggested[x-B].

In revising these sheets for the press, it was necessary for the editor, in some places, to
connect the more finished parts with the pages of an older copy, and a line or two in addition
sometimes appeared requisite for that purpose. Wherever such a liberty has been taken, the
additional phrases will be found inclosed in brackets; it being the editor's most earnest desire,
to intrude nothing of himself into the work, but to give to the public the words, as well as
ideas, of the real author.

What follows in the ensuing pages, is not a preface regularly drawn out by the author, but
merely hints for a preface, which, though never filled up in the manner the writer intended,
appeared to be worth preserving.

W. GODWIN.

AUTHOR'S PREFACE.

THE Wrongs of Woman, like the wrongs of the oppressed part of mankind, may be deemed necessary
by their oppressors: but surely there are a few, who will dare to advance before the improvement
of the age, and grant that my sketches are not the abortion of a distempered fancy, or the
strong delineations of a wounded heart.

In writing this novel, I have rather endeavoured to pourtray passions than manners.

In many instances I could have made the incidents more dramatic, would I have sacrificed my
main object, the desire of exhibiting the misery and oppression, peculiar to women, that arise
out of the partial laws and customs of society.

In the invention of the story, this view restrained my fancy; and the history ought rather
to be considered, as of woman, than of an individual.

The sentiments I have embodied.

In many works of this species, the hero is allowed to be mortal, and to become wise and virtuous
as well as happy, by a train of events and circumstances. The heroines, on the contrary, are
to be born immaculate; and to act like goddesses of wisdom, just come forth highly finished
Minervas from the head of Jove.

       *       *       *       *       *

[The following is an extract of a letter from the author to a friend, to whom she communicated
her manuscript.]

       *       *       *       *       *

For my part, I cannot suppose any situation more distressing, than for a woman of sensibility,
with an improving mind, to be bound to such a man as I have described for life; obliged to
renounce all the humanizing affections, and to avoid cultivating her taste, lest her perception
of grace and refinement of sentiment, should sharpen to agony the pangs of disappointment.
Love, in which the imagination mingles its bewitching colouring, must be fostered by delicacy.
I should despise, or rather call her an ordinary woman, who could endure such a husband as
I have sketched.

These appear to me (matrimonial despotism of heart and conduct) to be the peculiar Wrongs of
Woman, because they degrade the mind. What are termed great misfortunes, may more forcibly
impress the mind of common readers; they have more of what may justly be termed stage-effect;
but it is the delineation of finer sensations, which, in my opinion, constitutes the merit
of our best novels. This is what I have in view; and to show the wrongs of different classes
of women, equally oppressive, though, from the difference of education, necessarily various.

FOOTNOTES:

[x-A] A more copious extract of this letter is subjoined to the author's preface.

[x-B] The part communicated consisted of the first fourteen chapters.

ERRATA.

Page 3, line 2, dele half.

P. 81 and 118, for brackets [--], read inverted commas " thus "

CONTENTS.

VOL. I. AND II.

The Wrongs of Woman, or Maria; a Fragment: to which is added, the First Book of a Series of
Lessons for Children.

VOL. III. AND IV.

Letters and Miscellaneous Pieces.

WRONGS

OF

WOMAN.

CHAP. I.

ABODES of horror have frequently been described, and castles, filled with spectres and chimeras,
conjured up by the magic spell of genius to harrow the soul, and absorb the wondering mind.
But, formed of such stuff as dreams are made of, what were they to the mansion of despair,
in one corner of which Maria sat, endeavouring to recal her scattered thoughts!

Surprise, astonishment, that bordered on distraction, seemed to have suspended her faculties,
till, waking by degrees to a keen sense of anguish, a whirlwind of rage and indignation roused
her torpid pulse. One recollection with frightful velocity following another, threatened to
fire her brain, and make her a fit companion for the terrific inhabitants, whose groans and
shrieks were no unsubstantial sounds of whistling winds, or startled birds, modulated by a
romantic fancy, which amuse while they affright; but such tones of misery as carry a dreadful
certainty directly to the heart. What effect must they then have produced on one, true to the
touch of sympathy, and tortured by maternal apprehension!

Her infant's image was continually floating on Maria's sight, and the first smile of intelligence
remembered, as none but a mother, an unhappy mother, can conceive. She heard her half speaking
cooing, and felt the little twinkling fingers on her burning bosom--a bosom bursting with the
nutriment for which this cherished child might now be pining in vain. From a stranger she could
indeed receive the maternal aliment, Maria was grieved at the thought--but who would watch
her with a mother's tenderness, a mother's self-denial?

The retreating shadows of former sorrows rushed back in a gloomy train, and seemed to be pictured
on the walls of her prison, magnified by the state of mind in which they were viewed--Still
she mourned for her child, lamented she was a daughter, and anticipated the aggravated ills
of life that her sex rendered almost inevitable, even while dreading she was no more. To think
that she was blotted out of existence was agony, when the imagination had been long employed
to expand her faculties; yet to suppose her turned adrift on an unknown sea, was scarcely less
afflicting.

After being two days the prey of impetuous, varying emotions, Maria began to reflect more calmly
on her present situation, for she had actually been rendered incapable of sober reflection,
by the discovery of the act of atrocity of which she was the victim. She could not have imagined,
that, in all the fermentation of civilized depravity, a similar plot could have entered a human
mind. She had been stunned by an unexpected blow; yet life, however joyless, was not to be
indolently resigned, or misery endured without exertion, and proudly termed patience. She had
hitherto meditated only to point the dart of anguish, and suppressed the heart heavings of
indignant nature merely by the force of contempt. Now she endeavoured to brace her mind to
fortitude, and to ask herself what was to be her employment in her dreary cell? Was it not
to effect her escape, to fly to the succour of her child, and to baffle the selfish schemes
of her tyrant--her husband?

These thoughts roused her sleeping spirit, and the self-possession returned, that seemed to
have abandoned her in the infernal solitude into which she had been precipitated. The first
emotions of overwhelming impatience began to subside, and resentment gave place to tenderness,
and more tranquil meditation; though anger once more stopt the calm current of reflection,
when she attempted to move her manacled arms. But this was an outrage that could only excite
momentary feelings of scorn, which evaporated in a faint smile; for Maria was far from thinking
a personal insult the most difficult to endure with magnanimous indifference.

She approached the small grated window of her chamber, and for a considerable time only regarded
the blue expanse; though it commanded a view of a desolate garden, and of part of a huge pile
of buildings, that, after having been suffered, for half a century, to fall to decay, had undergone
some clumsy repairs, merely to render it habitable. The ivy had been torn off the turrets,
and the stones not wanted to patch up the breaches of time, and exclude the warring elements,
left in heaps in the disordered court. Maria contemplated this scene she knew not how long;
or rather gazed on the walls, and pondered on her situation. To the master of this most horrid
of prisons, she had, soon after her entrance, raved of injustice, in accents that would have
justified his treatment, had not a malignant smile, when she appealed to his judgment, with
a dreadful conviction stifled her remonstrating complaints. By force, or openly, what could
be done? But surely some expedient might occur to an active mind, without any other employment,
and possessed of sufficient resolution to put the risk of life into the balance with the chance
of freedom.

A woman entered in the midst of these reflections, with a firm, deliberate step, strongly marked
features, and large black eyes, which she fixed steadily on Maria's, as if she designed to
intimidate her, saying at the same time--"You had better sit down and eat your dinner, than
look at the clouds."

"I have no appetite," replied Maria, who had previously determined to speak mildly, "why then
should I eat?"

"But, in spite of that, you must and shall eat something. I have had many ladies under my care,
who have resolved to starve themselves; but, soon or late, they gave up their intent, as they
recovered their senses."

"Do you really think me mad?" asked Maria, meeting the searching glance of her eye.

"Not just now. But what does that prove?--only that you must be the more carefully watched,
for appearing at times so reasonable. You have not touched a morsel since you entered the house."--Maria
sighed intelligibly.--"Could any thing but madness produce such a disgust for food?"

"Yes, grief; you would not ask the question if you knew what it was." The attendant shook her
head; and a ghastly smile of desperate fortitude served as a forcible reply, and made Maria
pause, before she added--"Yet I will take some refreshment: I mean not to die.--No; I will
preserve my senses; and convince even you, sooner than you are aware of, that my intellects
have never been disturbed, though the exertion of them may have been suspended by some infernal
drug."

Doubt gathered still thicker on the brow of her guard, as she attempted to convict her of mistake.

"Have patience!" exclaimed Maria, with a solemnity that inspired awe. "My God! how have I been
schooled into the practice!" A suffocation of voice betrayed the agonizing emotions she was
labouring to keep down; and conquering a qualm of disgust, she calmly endeavoured to eat enough
to prove her docility, perpetually turning to the suspicious female, whose observation she
courted, while she was making the bed and adjusting the room.

"Come to me often," said Maria, with a tone of persuasion, in consequence of a vague plan that
she had hastily adopted, when, after surveying this woman's form and features, she felt convinced
that she had an understanding above the common standard; "and believe me mad, till you are
obliged to acknowledge the contrary." The woman was no fool, that is, she was superior to her
class; nor had misery quite petrified the life's-blood of humanity, to which reflections on
our own misfortunes only give a more orderly course. The manner, rather than the expostulations,
of Maria made a slight suspicion dart into her mind with corresponding sympathy, which various
other avocations, and the habit of banishing compunction, prevented her, for the present, from
examining more minutely.

But when she was told that no person, excepting the physician appointed by her family, was
to be permitted to see the lady at the end of the gallery, she opened her keen eyes still wider,
and uttered a--"hem!" before she enquired--"Why?" She was briefly told, in reply, that the
malady was hereditary, and the fits not occurring but at very long and irregular intervals,
she must be carefully watched; for the length of these lucid periods only rendered her more
mischievous, when any vexation or caprice brought on the paroxysm of phrensy.

Had her master trusted her, it is probable that neither pity nor curiosity would have made
her swerve from the straight line of her interest; for she had suffered too much in her intercourse
with mankind, not to determine to look for support, rather to humouring their passions, than
courting their approbation by the integrity of her conduct. A deadly blight had met her at
the very threshold of existence; and the wretchedness of her mother seemed a heavy weight fastened
on her innocent neck, to drag her down to perdition. She could not heroically determine to
succour an unfortunate; but, offended at the bare supposition that she could be deceived with
the same ease as a common servant, she no longer curbed her curiosity; and, though she never
seriously fathomed her own intentions, she would sit, every moment she could steal from observation,
listening to the tale, which Maria was eager to relate with all the persuasive eloquence of grief.

It is so cheering to see a human face, even if little of the divinity of virtue beam in it,
that Maria anxiously expected the return of the attendant, as of a gleam of light to break
the gloom of idleness. Indulged sorrow; she perceived, must blunt or sharpen the faculties
to the two opposite extremes; producing stupidity, the moping melancholy of indolence; or the
restless activity of a disturbed imagination. She sunk into one state, after being fatigued
by the other: till the want of occupation became even more painful than the actual pressure
or apprehension of sorrow; and the confinement that froze her into a nook of existence, with
an unvaried prospect before her, the most insupportable of evils. The lamp of life seemed to
be spending itself to chase the vapours of a dungeon which no art could dissipate.--And to
what purpose did she rally all her energy?--Was not the world a vast prison, and women born slaves?

Though she failed immediately to rouse a lively sense of injustice in the mind of her guard,
because it had been sophisticated into misanthropy, she touched her heart. Jemima (she had
only a claim to a Christian name, which had not procured her any Christian privileges) could
patiently hear of Maria's confinement on false pretences; she had felt the crushing hand of
power, hardened by the exercise of injustice, and ceased to wonder at the perversions of the
understanding, which systematize oppression; but, when told that her child, only four months
old, had been torn from her, even while she was discharging the tenderest maternal office,
the woman awoke in a bosom long estranged from feminine emotions, and Jemima determined to
alleviate all in her power, without hazarding the loss of her place, the sufferings of a wretched
mother, apparently injured, and certainly unhappy. A sense of right seems to result from the
simplest act of reason, and to preside over the faculties of the mind, like the master-sense
of feeling, to rectify the rest; but (for the comparison may be carried still farther) how
often is the exquisite sensibility of both weakened or destroyed by the vulgar occupations,
and ignoble pleasures of life?

The preserving her situation was, indeed, an important object to Jemima, who had been hunted
from hole to hole, as if she had been a beast of prey, or infected with a moral plague. The
wages she received, the greater part of which she hoarded, as her only chance for independence,
were much more considerable than she could reckon on obtaining any where else, were it possible
that she, an outcast from society, could be permitted to earn a subsistence in a reputable
family. Hearing Maria perpetually complain of listlessness, and the not being able to beguile
grief by resuming her customary pursuits, she was easily prevailed on, by compassion, and that
involuntary respect for abilities, which those who possess them can never eradicate, to bring
her some books and implements for writing. Maria's conversation had amused and interested her,
and the natural consequence was a desire, scarcely observed by herself, of obtaining the esteem
of a person she admired. The remembrance of better days was rendered more lively; and the sentiments
then acquired appearing less romantic than they had for a long period, a spark of hope roused
her mind to new activity.

How grateful was her attention to Maria! Oppressed by a dead weight of existence, or preyed
on by the gnawing worm of discontent, with what eagerness did she endeavour to shorten the
long days, which left no traces behind! She seemed to be sailing on the vast ocean of life,
without seeing any land-mark to indicate the progress of time; to find employment was then
to find variety, the animating principle of nature.

CHAP. II.

EARNESTLY as Maria endeavoured to soothe, by reading, the anguish of her wounded mind, her
thoughts would often wander from the subject she was led to discuss, and tears of maternal
tenderness obscured the reasoning page. She descanted on "the ills which flesh is heir to,"
with bitterness, when the recollection of her babe was revived by a tale of fictitious woe,
that bore any resemblance to her own; and her imagination was continually employed, to conjure
up and embody the various phantoms of misery, which folly and vice had let loose on the world.
The loss of her babe was the tender string; against other cruel remembrances she laboured to
steel her bosom; and even a ray of hope, in the midst of her gloomy reveries, would sometimes
gleam on the dark horizon of futurity, while persuading herself that she ought to cease to
hope, since happiness was no where to be found.--But of her child, debilitated by the grief
with which its mother had been assailed before it saw the light, she could not think without
an impatient struggle.

"I, alone, by my active tenderness, could have saved," she would exclaim, "from an early blight,
this sweet blossom; and, cherishing it, I should have had something still to love."

In proportion as other expectations were torn from her, this tender one had been fondly clung
to, and knit into her heart.

The books she had obtained, were soon devoured, by one who had no other resource to escape
from sorrow, and the feverish dreams of ideal wretchedness or felicity, which equally weaken
the intoxicated sensibility. Writing was then the only alternative, and she wrote some rhapsodies
descriptive of the state of her mind; but the events of her past life pressing on her, she
resolved circumstantially to relate them, with the sentiments that experience, and more matured
reason, would naturally suggest. They might perhaps instruct her daughter, and shield her from
the misery, the tyranny, her mother knew not how to avoid.

This thought gave life to her diction, her soul flowed into it, and she soon found the task
of recollecting almost obliterated impressions very interesting. She lived again in the revived
emotions of youth, and forgot her present in the retrospect of sorrows that had assumed an
unalterable character.

Though this employment lightened the weight of time, yet, never losing sight of her main object,
Maria did not allow any opportunity to slip of winning on the affections of Jemima; for she
discovered in her a strength of mind, that excited her esteem, clouded as it was by the misanthropy
of despair.

An insulated being, from the misfortune of her birth, she despised and preyed on the society
by which she had been oppressed, and loved not her fellow-creatures, because she had never
been beloved. No mother had ever fondled her, no father or brother had protected her from outrage;
and the man who had plunged her into infamy, and deserted her when she stood in greatest need
of support, deigned not to smooth with kindness the road to ruin. Thus degraded, was she let
loose on the world; and virtue, never nurtured by affection, assumed the stern aspect of selfish
independence.

This general view of her life, Maria gathered from her exclamations and dry remarks. Jemima
indeed displayed a strange mixture of interest and suspicion; for she would listen to her with
earnestness, and then suddenly interrupt the conversation, as if afraid of resigning, by giving
way to her sympathy, her dear-bought knowledge of the world.

Maria alluded to the possibility of an escape, and mentioned a compensation, or reward; but
the style in which she was repulsed made her cautious, and determine not to renew the subject,
till she knew more of the character she had to work on. Jemima's countenance, and dark hints,
seemed to say, "You are an extraordinary woman; but let me consider, this may only be one of
your lucid intervals." Nay, the very energy of Maria's character, made her suspect that the
extraordinary animation she perceived might be the effect of madness. "Should her husband then
substantiate his charge, and get possession of her estate, from whence would come the promised
annuity, or more desired protection? Besides, might not a woman, anxious to escape, conceal
some of the circumstances which made against her? Was truth to be expected from one who had
been entrapped, kidnapped, in the most fraudulent manner?"

In this train Jemima continued to argue, the moment after compassion and respect seemed to
make her swerve; and she still resolved not to be wrought on to do more than soften the rigour
of confinement, till she could advance on surer ground.

Maria was not permitted to walk in the garden; but sometimes, from her window, she turned her
eyes from the gloomy walls, in which she pined life away, on the poor wretches who strayed
along the walks, and contemplated the most terrific of ruins--that of a human soul. What is
the view of the fallen column, the mouldering arch, of the most exquisite workmanship, when
compared with this living memento of the fragility, the instability, of reason, and the wild
luxuriancy of noxious passions? Enthusiasm turned adrift, like some rich stream overflowing
its banks, rushes forward with destructive velocity, inspiring a sublime concentration of thought.
Thus thought Maria--These are the ravages over which humanity must ever mournfully ponder,
with a degree of anguish not excited by crumbling marble, or cankering brass, unfaithful to
the trust of monumental fame. It is not over the decaying productions of the mind, embodied
with the happiest art, we grieve most bitterly. The view of what has been done by man, produces
a melancholy, yet aggrandizing, sense of what remains to be achieved by human intellect; but
a mental convulsion, which, like the devastation of an earthquake, throws all the elements
of thought and imagination into confusion, makes contemplation giddy, and we fearfully ask
on what ground we ourselves stand.

Melancholy and imbecility marked the features of the wretches allowed to breathe at large;
for the frantic, those who in a strong imagination had lost a sense of woe, were closely confined.
The playful tricks and mischievous devices of their disturbed fancy, that suddenly broke out,
could not be guarded against, when they were permitted to enjoy any portion of freedom; for,
so active was their imagination, that every new object which accidentally struck their senses,
awoke to phrenzy their restless passions; as Maria learned from the burden of their incessant
ravings.

Sometimes, with a strict injunction of silence, Jemima would allow Maria, at the close of evening,
to stray along the narrow avenues that separated the dungeon-like apartments, leaning on her
arm. What a change of scene! Maria wished to pass the threshold of her prison, yet, when by
chance she met the eye of rage glaring on her, yet unfaithful to its office, she shrunk back
with more horror and affright, than if she had stumbled over a mangled corpse. Her busy fancy
pictured the misery of a fond heart, watching over a friend thus estranged, absent, though
present--over a poor wretch lost to reason and the social joys of existence; and losing all
consciousness of misery in its excess. What a task, to watch the light of reason quivering
in the eye, or with agonizing expectation to catch the beam of recollection; tantalized by
hope, only to feel despair more keenly, at finding a much loved face or voice, suddenly remembered,
or pathetically implored, only to be immediately forgotten, or viewed with indifference or
abhorrence!

The heart-rending sigh of melancholy sunk into her soul; and when she retired to rest, the
petrified figures she had encountered, the only human forms she was doomed to observe, haunting
her dreams with tales of mysterious wrongs, made her wish to sleep to dream no more.

Day after day rolled away, and tedious as the present moment appeared, they passed in such
an unvaried tenor, Maria was surprised to find that she had already been six weeks buried alive,
and yet had such faint hopes of effecting her enlargement. She was, earnestly as she had sought
for employment, now angry with herself for having been amused by writing her narrative; and
grieved to think that she had for an instant thought of any thing, but contriving to escape.

Jemima had evidently pleasure in her society: still, though she often left her with a glow
of kindness, she returned with the same chilling air; and, when her heart appeared for a moment
to open, some suggestion of reason forcibly closed it, before she could give utterance to the
confidence Maria's conversation inspired.

Discouraged by these changes, Maria relapsed into despondency, when she was cheered by the
alacrity with which Jemima brought her a fresh parcel of books; assuring her, that she had
taken some pains to obtain them from one of the keepers, who attended a gentleman confined
in the opposite corner of the gallery.

Maria took up the books with emotion. "They come," said she, "perhaps, from a wretch condemned,
like me, to reason on the nature of madness, by having wrecked minds continually under his
eye; and almost to wish himself--as I do--mad, to escape from the contemplation of it." Her
heart throbbed with sympathetic alarm; and she turned over the leaves with awe, as if they
had become sacred from passing through the hands of an unfortunate being, oppressed by a similar
fate.

Dryden's Fables, Milton's Paradise Lost, with several modern productions, composed the collection.
It was a mine of treasure. Some marginal notes, in Dryden's Fables, caught her attention: they
were written with force and taste; and, in one of the modern pamphlets, there was a fragment
left, containing various observations on the present state of society and government, with
a comparative view of the politics of Europe and America. These remarks were written with a
degree of generous warmth, when alluding to the enslaved state of the labouring majority, perfectly
in unison with Maria's mode of thinking.

She read them over and over again; and fancy, treacherous fancy, began to sketch a character,
congenial with her own, from these shadowy outlines.--"Was he mad?" She re-perused the marginal
notes, and they seemed the production of an animated, but not of a disturbed imagination. Confined
to this speculation, every time she re-read them, some fresh refinement of sentiment, or acuteness
of thought impressed her, which she was astonished at herself for not having before observed.

What a creative power has an affectionate heart! There are beings who cannot live without loving,
as poets love; and who feel the electric spark of genius, wherever it awakens sentiment or
grace. Maria had often thought, when disciplining her wayward heart, "that to charm, was to
be virtuous." "They who make me wish to appear the most amiable and good in their eyes, must
possess in a degree," she would exclaim, "the graces and virtues they call into action."

She took up a book on the powers of the human mind; but, her attention strayed from cold arguments
on the nature of what she felt, while she was feeling, and she snapt the chain of the theory
to read Dryden's Guiscard and Sigismunda.

Maria, in the course of the ensuing day, returned some of the books, with the hope of getting
others--and more marginal notes. Thus shut out from human intercourse, and compelled to view
nothing but the prison of vexed spirits, to meet a wretch in the same situation, was more surely
to find a friend, than to imagine a countryman one, in a strange land, where the human voice
conveys no information to the eager ear.

"Did you ever see the unfortunate being to whom these books belong?" asked Maria, when Jemima
brought her supper. "Yes. He sometimes walks out, between five and six, before the family is
stirring, in the morning, with two keepers; but even then his hands are confined."

