I scorn to reproduce his language; he touched upon too many serious topics by the way for a
quiet story-teller. Although he was known for a man who was prompt with his tongue, and had
a power of strong expression at command, he excelled himself so remarkably this night that
one maiden lady, who had got out of bed like the rest to hear the serenade, was obliged to
shut her window at the second clause. Even what she had heard disquieted her conscience; and
next day she said she scarcely reckoned as a maiden lady any longer.

Léon tried to explain his predicament, but he received nothing but threats of arrest by way
of answer.

"If I come down to you!" cried the Commissary.

"Ay," said Léon, "do!"

"I will not!" cried the Commissary.

"You dare not!" answered Léon.

At that the Commissary closed his window.

"All is over," said the singer. "The serenade was perhaps ill-judged. These boors have no sense
of humour."

"Let us get away from here," said Elvira, with a shiver. "All these people looking--it is so
rude and so brutal." And then giving way once more to passion--"Brutes!" she cried aloud to
the candle-lit spectators--"brutes! brutes! brutes!"

"Sauve qui peut," said Léon. "You have done it now!"

And taking the guitar in one hand and the case in the other, he led the way with something
too precipitate to be merely called precipitation from the scene of this absurd adventure.

CHAPTER IV

To the west of Castel-le-Gâchis four rows of venerable lime-trees formed, in this starry night,
a twilit avenue with two side aisles of pitch darkness. Here and there stone benches were disposed
between the trunks. There was not a breath of wind; a heavy atmosphere of perfume hung about
the alleys; and every leaf stood stock-still upon its twig. Hither, after vainly knocking at
an inn or two, the Berthelinis came at length to pass the night. After an amiable contention,
Léon insisted on giving his coat to Elvira, and they sat down together on the first bench in
silence. Léon made a cigarette, which he smoked to an end, looking up into the trees, and beyond
them at the constellations, of which he tried vainly to recall the names. The silence was broken
by the church bell; it rang the four quarters on a light and tinkling measure; then followed
a single deep stroke that died slowly away with a thrill; and stillness resumed its empire.

"One," said Léon. "Four hours till daylight. It is warm; it is starry; I have matches and tobacco.
Do not let us exaggerate, Elvira--the experience is positively charming. I feel a glow within
me; I am born again. This is the poetry of life. Think of Cooper's novels, my dear."

"Léon," she said fiercely, "how can you talk such wicked, infamous nonsense? To pass all night
out of doors--it is like a nightmare! We shall die!"

"You suffer yourself to be led away," he replied soothingly. "It is not unpleasant here; only
you brood. Come, now, let us repeat a scene. Shall we try Alceste and Célimène? No? Or a passage
from the Two Orphans? Come, now, it will occupy your mind; I will play up to you as I never
have played before; I feel art moving in my bones."

"Hold your tongue," she cried, "or you will drive me mad! Will nothing solemnise you--not even
this hideous situation?"

"Oh, hideous!" objected Léon. "Hideous is not the word. Why, where would you be? 'Dites, la
jeune belle, où voulez-vous aller?'" he carolled. "Well, now," he went on, opening the guitar-case,
"there's another idea for you--sing. Sing 'Dites, la jeune belle'! It will compose your spirits,
Elvira, I am sure."

And without waiting an answer he began to strum the symphony. The first chords awoke a young
man who was lying asleep upon a neighbouring bench.

"Hullo!" cried the young man, "who are you?"

"Under which king, Bezonian?" declaimed the artist. "Speak or die!"

Or if it was not exactly that, it was something to much the same purpose from a French tragedy.

The young man drew near in the twilight. He was a tall, powerful, gentlemanly fellow, with
a somewhat puffy face, dressed in a grey tweed suit, with a deer-stalker hat of the same material;
and as he now came forward he carried a knapsack slung upon one arm.

"Are you camping out here too?" he asked, with a strong English accent. "I'm not sorry for
company."

Léon explained their misadventure; and the other told them that he was a Cambridge undergraduate
on a walking tour, that he had run short of money, could no longer pay for his night's lodging,
had already been camping out for two nights, and feared he should require to continue the same
manoeuvre for at least two nights more.

"Luckily, it's jolly weather," he concluded.

"You hear that, Elvira," said Léon.--"Madame Berthelini," he went on, "is ridiculously affected
by this trifling occurrence. For my part, I find it romantic and far from uncomfortable; or
at least," he added, shifting on the stone bench, "not quite so uncomfortable as might have
been expected. But pray be seated."

"Yes," returned the undergraduate, sitting down, "it's rather nice than otherwise when once
you're used to it; only it's devilish difficult to get washed. I like the fresh air and these
stars and things."

"Aha!" said Léon, "Monsieur is an artist."

"An artist?" returned the other, with a blank stare. "Not if I know it!"

"Pardon me," said the actor. "What you said this moment about the orbs of heaven--"

"Oh, nonsense!" cried the Englishman. "A fellow may admire the stars and be anything he likes."

"You have an artist's nature, however, Mr. ---- I beg your pardon; may I, without indiscretion,
inquire your name?" asked Léon.

"My name is Stubbs," replied the Englishman.

"I thank you," returned Léon. "Mine is Berthelini--Léon Berthelini, ex-artist of the theatres
of Montrouge, Belleville, and Montmartre. Humble as you see me, I have created with applause
more than one important rôle. The Press were unanimous in praise of my Howling Devil of the
Mountains, in the piece of the same name. Madame, whom I now present to you, is herself an
artist, and I must not omit to state, a better artist than her husband. She also is a creator;
she created nearly twenty successful songs at one of the principal Parisian music-halls. But
to continue: I was saying you had an artist's nature, Monsieur Stubbs, and you must permit
me to be a judge in such a question. I trust you will not falsify your instincts; let me beseech
you to follow the career of an artist."

"Thank you," returned Stubbs, with a chuckle. "I'm going to be a banker."

"No," said Léon, "do not say so. Not that. A man with such a nature as yours should not derogate
so far. What are a few privations here and there, so long as you are working for a high and
noble goal?"

"This fellow's mad," thought Stubbs: "but the woman's rather pretty, and he's not bad fun himself,
if you come to that." What he said was different: "I thought you said you were an actor?"

"I certainly did so," replied Léon. "I am one, or, alas! I was."

"And so you want me to be an actor, do you?" continued the undergraduate. "Why, man, I could
never so much as learn the stuff; my memory's like a sieve; and as for acting, I've no more
idea than a cat."

"The stage is not the only course," said Léon. "Be a sculptor, be a dancer, be a poet or a
novelist; follow your heart, in short, and do some thorough work before you die."

"And do you call all these things art?" inquired Stubbs.

"Why, certainly!" returned Léon. "Are they not all branches?"

"Oh! I didn't know," replied the Englishman. "I thought an artist meant a fellow who painted."

The singer stared at him in some surprise.

"It is the difference of language," he said at last. "This Tower of Babel, when shall we have
paid for it? If I could speak English you would follow me more readily."

"Between you and me, I don't believe I should," replied the other. "You seem to have thought
a devil of a lot about this business. For my part, I admire the stars, and like to have them
shining--it's so cheery--but hang me if I had an idea it had anything to do with art! It's
not in my line, you see. I'm not intellectual; I have no end of trouble to scrape through my
exams., I can tell you! But I'm not a bad sort at bottom," he added, seeing his interlocutor
looked distressed even in the dim star-shine, "and I rather like the play, and music, and guitars,
and things."

Léon had a perception that the understanding was incomplete. He changed the subject.

"And so you travel on foot?" he continued. "How romantic! How courageous! And how are you pleased
with my land? How does the scenery affect you among these wild hills of ours?"

"Well, the fact is," began Stubbs--he was about to say that he didn't care for scenery, which
was not at all true, being, on the contrary, only an athletic undergraduate pretension; but
he had begun to suspect that Berthelini liked a different sort of meat, and substituted something
else: "The fact is, I think it jolly. They told me it was no good up here; even the guide-book
said so; but I don't know what they meant. I think it is deuced pretty--upon my word, I do."

At this moment, in the most unexpected manner, Elvira burst into tears.

"My voice!" she cried. "Léon, if I stay here longer I shall lose my voice!"

"You shall not stay another moment," cried the actor.

"If I have to beat in a door, if I have to burn the town, I shall find you shelter."

With that, he replaced the guitar, and, comforting her with some caresses, drew her arm through
his.

"Monsieur Stubbs," said he, taking off his hat, "the reception I offer you is rather problematical;
but let me beseech you to give us the pleasure of your society. You are a little embarrassed
for the moment; you must, indeed, permit me to advance what may be necessary. I ask it as a
favour; we must not part so soon after having met so strangely."

"Oh, come, you know," said Stubbs, "I can't let a fellow like you----" And there he paused,
feeling somehow or other on a wrong tack.

"I do not wish to employ menaces," continued Léon, with a smile; "but if you refuse, indeed
I shall not take it kindly."

"I don't quite see my way out of it," thought the undergraduate; and then, after a pause, he
said, aloud and ungraciously enough, "All right. I--I'm very much obliged, of course." And
he proceeded to follow them, thinking in his heart, "But it's bad form, all the same, to force
an obligation on a fellow."

CHAPTER V

Léon strode ahead as if he knew exactly where he was going; the sobs of Madame were still faintly
audible, and no one uttered a word. A dog barked furiously in a courtyard as they went by;
then the church clock struck two, and many domestic clocks followed or preceded it in piping
tones. And just then Berthelini spied a light. It burned in a small house on the outskirts
of the town, and thither the party now directed their steps.

"It is always a chance," said Léon.

The house in question stood back from the street behind an open space, part garden, part turnip-field;
and several outhouses stood forward from either wing at right angles to the front. One of these
had recently undergone some change. An enormous window, looking towards the north, had been
effected in the wall and roof, and Léon began to hope it was a studio.

"If it's only a painter," he said, with a chuckle, "ten to one we get as good a welcome as
we want."

"I thought painters were principally poor," said Stubbs.

"Ah!" cried Léon, "you do not know the world as I do. The poorer the better for us!"

And the trio advanced into the turnip-field.

The light was in the ground floor; as one window was brightly illuminated and two others more
faintly, it might be supposed that there was a single lamp in one corner of a large apartment;
and a certain tremulousness and temporary dwindling showed that a live fire contributed to
the effect. The sound of a voice now became audible; and the trespassers paused to listen.
It was pitched in a high, angry key, but had still a good, full, and masculine note in it.
The utterance was voluble, too voluble even to be quite distinct; a stream of words, rising
and falling, with ever and again a phrase thrown out by itself, as if the speaker reckoned
on its virtue.

Suddenly another voice joined in. This time it was a woman's; and if the man were angry, the
woman was incensed to the degree of fury. There was that absolutely blank composure known to
suffering males; that colourless unnatural speech which shows a spirit accurately balanced
between homicide and hysterics; the tone in which the best of women sometimes utter words worse
than death to those most dear to them. If Abstract Bones-and-Sepulchre were to be endowed with
the gift of speech, thus, and not otherwise, would it discourse. Léon was a brave man, and
I fear he was somewhat sceptically given (he had been educated in a Papistical country), but
the habit of childhood prevailed, and he crossed himself devoutly. He had met several women
in his career. It was obvious that his instinct had not deceived him, for the male voice broke
forth instantly in a towering passion.

The undergraduate, who had not understood the significance of the woman's contribution, pricked
up his ears at the change upon the man.

"There's going to be a free fight," he opined.

There was another retort from the woman, still calm, but a little higher.

"Hysterics?" asked Léon of his wife. "Is that the stage direction?"

"How should I know?" returned Elvira, somewhat tartly.

"Oh, woman, woman!" said Léon, beginning to open the guitar-case. "It is one of the burdens
of my life, Monsieur Stubbs; they support each other; they always pretend there is no system;
they say it's nature. Even Madame Berthelini, who is a dramatic artist!"

"You are heartless, Léon," said Elvira; "that woman is in trouble."

"And the man, my angel?" inquired Berthelini, passing the ribbon of his guitar. "And the man,
m'amour?"

"He is a man," she answered.

"You hear that?" said Léon to Stubbs. "It is not too late for you. Mark the intonation. And
now," he continued, "what are we to give them?"

"Are you going to sing?" asked Stubbs.

"I am a troubadour," replied Léon. "I claim a welcome by and for my art. If I were a banker,
could I do as much?"

"Well, you wouldn't need, you know," answered the undergraduate.

"Egad," said Léon, "but that's true. Elvira, that is true."

"Of course it is," she replied. "Did you not know it?"

"My dear," answered Léon impressively, "I know nothing but what is agreeable. Even my knowledge
of life is a work of art superiorly composed. But what are we to give them? It should be something
appropriate."

Visions of "Let dogs delight" passed through the under-graduate's mind; but it occurred to
him that the poetry was English and that he did not know the air. Hence he contributed no suggestion.

"Something about our houselessness," said Elvira.

"I have it," cried Léon. And he broke forth into a song of Pierre Dupont's:--

  "Savez-vous où gite
   Mai, ce joli mois?"

Elvira joined in; so did Stubbs, with a good ear and voice, but an imperfect acquaintance with
the music. Léon and the guitar were equal to the situation. The actor dispensed his throat-notes
with prodigality and enthusiasm; and, as he looked up to heaven in his heroic way, tossing
the black ringlets, it seemed to him that the very stars contributed a dumb applause to his
efforts, and the universe lent him its silence for a chorus. That is one of the best features
of the heavenly bodies, that they belong to everybody in particular; and a man like Léon, a
chronic Endymion who managed to get along without encouragement, is always the world's centre
for himself.

He alone--and it is to be noted, he was the worst singer of the three--took the music seriously
to heart, and judged the serenade from a high artistic point of view. Elvira, on the other
hand, was preoccupied about their reception; and as for Stubbs, he considered the whole affair
in the light of a broad joke.

"Know you the lair of May, the lovely month?" went the three voices in the turnip-field.

The inhabitants were plainly fluttered; the light moved to and fro, strengthening in one window,
paling in another; and then the door was thrown open, and a man in a blouse appeared on the
threshold carrying a lamp. He was a powerful young fellow, with bewildered hair and beard,
wearing his neck open; his blouse was stained with oil-colours in a harlequinesque disorder;
and there was something rural in the droop and bagginess of his belted trousers.

From immediately behind him, and indeed over his shoulder, a woman's face looked out into the
darkness; it was pale and a little weary, although still young; it wore a dwindling, disappearing
prettiness, soon to be quite gone, and the expression was both gentle and sour, and reminded
one faintly of the taste of certain drugs. For all that, it was not a face to dislike; when
the prettiness had vanished, it seemed as if a certain pale beauty might step in to take its
place; and as both the mildness and the asperity were characters of youth, it might be hoped
that, with years, both would merge into a constant, brave, and not unkindly temper.

"What is all this?" cried the man.

CHAPTER VI

Léon had his hat in his hand at once. He came forward with his customary grace; it was a moment
which would have earned him a round of cheering on the stage. Elvira and Stubbs advanced behind
him, like a couple of Admetus's sheep following the god Apollo.

"Sir," said Léon, "the hour is unpardonably late, and our little serenade has the air of an
impertinence. Believe me, sir, it is an appeal. Monsieur is an artist, I perceive. We are here
three artists benighted and without shelter, one a woman--a delicate woman--in evening dress--in
an interesting situation. This will not fail to touch the woman's heart of Madame, whom I perceive
indistinctly behind Monsieur her husband, and whose face speaks eloquently of a well-regulated
mind. Ah! Monsieur, Madame--one generous movement, and you make three people happy! Two or
three hours beside your fire--I ask it of Monsieur in the name of Art--I ask it of Madame by
the sanctity of womanhood."

The two, as by a tacit consent, drew back from the door.

"Come in," said the man.

"Entrez, Madame," said the woman.

The door opened directly upon the kitchen of the house, which was to all appearance the only
sitting-room. The furniture was both plain and scanty; but there were one or two landscapes
on the wall, handsomely framed, as if they had already visited the committee-rooms of an exhibition
and been thence extruded. Léon walked up to the pictures and represented the part of a connoisseur
before each in turn, with his usual dramatic insight and force. The master of the house, as
if irresistibly attracted, followed him from canvas to canvas with the lamp. Elvira was led
directly to the fire, where she proceeded to warm herself, while Stubbs stood in the middle
of the floor and followed the proceedings of Léon with mild astonishment in his eyes.

"You should see them by daylight," said the artist.

"I promise myself that pleasure," said Léon. "You possess, sir, if you will permit me an observation,
the art of composition to a T."

"You are very good," returned the other. "But should you not draw nearer to the fire?"

"With all my heart," said Léon.

And the whole party was soon gathered at the table over a hasty and not an elegant cold supper,
washed down with the least of small wines. Nobody liked the meal, but nobody complained; they
put a good face upon it, one and all, and made a great clattering of knives and forks. To see
Léon eating a single cold sausage was to see a triumph; by the time he had done he had got
through as much pantomime as would have sufficed for a baron of beef, and he had the relaxed
expression of the over-eaten.

As Elvira had naturally taken a place by the side of Léon, and Stubbs as naturally, although
I believe unconsciously, by the side of Elvira, the host and hostess were left together. Yet
it was to be noted that they never addressed a word to each other, nor so much as suffered
their eyes to meet. The interrupted skirmish still survived in ill-feeling; and the instant
the guests departed it would break forth again as bitterly as ever. The talk wandered from
this to that subject--for with one accord the party had declared it was too late to go to bed;
but those two never relaxed towards each other; Goneril and Regan in a sisterly tiff were not
more bent on enmity.

It chanced that Elvira was so much tired by all the little excitements of the night, that for
once she laid aside her company manners, which were both easy and correct, and in the most
natural manner in the world leaned her head on Léon's shoulder. At the same time, fatigue suggesting
tenderness, she locked the fingers of her right hand into those of her husband's left; and,
half-closing her eyes, dozed off into a golden borderland between sleep and waking. But all
the time she was not unaware of what was passing, and saw the painter's wife studying her with
looks between contempt and envy.

It occurred to Léon that his constitution demanded the use of some tobacco; and he undid his
fingers from Elvira's in order to roll a cigarette. It was gently done, and he took care that
his indulgence should in no other way disturb his wife's position. But it seemed to catch the
eye of the painter's wife with a special significancy. She looked straight before her for an
instant, and then, with a swift and stealthy movement, took hold of her husband's hand below
the table. Alas! she might have spared herself the dexterity. For the poor fellow was so overcome
by this caress that he stopped with his mouth open in the middle of a word, and by the expression
of his face plainly declared to all the company that his thoughts had been diverted into softer
channels.

If it had not been rather amiable, it would have been absurdly droll. His wife at once withdrew
her touch; but it was plain she had to exert some force. Thereupon the young man coloured and
looked for a moment beautiful.

Léon and Elvira both observed the by-play, and a shock passed from one to the other; for they
were inveterate match-makers, especially between those who were already married.

"I beg your pardon," said Léon suddenly. "I see no use in pretending. Before we came in here
we heard sounds indicating--if I may so express myself--an imperfect harmony."

"Sir----" began the man.

But the woman was beforehand.

"It is quite true," she said. "I see no cause to be ashamed. If my husband is mad I shall at
least do my utmost to prevent the consequences. Picture to yourself, Monsieur and Madame,"
she went on, for she passed Stubbs over, "that this wretched person--a dauber, an incompetent,
not fit to be a sign-painter--receives this morning an admirable offer from an uncle--an uncle
of my own, my mother's brother, and tenderly beloved--of a clerkship with nearly a hundred
and fifty pounds a year, and that he--picture to yourself!--he refuses it! Why? For the sake
of Art, he says. Look at his art, I say--look at it! Is it fit to be seen? Ask him--is it fit
to be sold? And it is for this, Monsieur and Madame, that he condemns me to the most deplorable
existence, without luxuries, without comforts, in a vile suburb of a country town. O non!"
she cried, "non--je ne me tairai pas--c'est plus fort que moi! I take these gentlemen and this
lady for judges--is this kind? is it decent? is it manly? Do I not deserve better at his hands
after having married him and"--(a visible hitch)--"done everything in the world to please him?"

I doubt if there ever were a more embarrassed company at a table; every one looked like a fool;
and the husband like the biggest.

"The art of Monsieur, however," said Elvira, breaking the silence, "is not wanting in distinction."

"It has this distinction," said the wife, "that nobody will buy it."

"I should have supposed a clerkship----" began Stubbs.

"Art is Art," swept in Léon. "I salute Art. It is the beautiful, the divine; it is the spirit
of the world and the pride of life. But----" And the actor paused.

"A clerkship----" began Stubbs.

"I'll tell you what it is," said the painter. "I am an artist, and as this gentleman says,
Art is this and the other; but of course, if my wife is going to make my life a piece of perdition
all day long, I prefer to go and drown myself out of hand."

"Go!" said his wife. "I should like to see you!"

"I was going to say," resumed Stubbs, "that a fellow may be a clerk and paint almost as much
as he likes. I know a fellow in a bank who makes capital water-colour sketches; he even sold
one for seven-and-six."

To both the women this seemed a plank of safety; each hopefully interrogated the countenance
of her lord; even Elvira, an artist herself!--but indeed there must be something permanently
mercantile in the female nature. The two men exchanged a glance; it was tragic; not otherwise
might two philosophers salute, as at the end of a laborious life each recognised that he was
still a mystery to his disciples.

Léon arose.

"Art is Art," he repeated sadly. "It is not water-colour sketches, nor practising on a piano.
It is a life to be lived."

"And in the meantime people starve!" observed the woman of the house. "If that's a life, it
is not one for me."

"I'll tell you what," burst forth Léon; "you, Madame, go into another room and talk it over
with my wife; and I'll stay here and talk it over with your husband. It may come to nothing,
but let's try."

"I am very willing," replied the young woman; and she proceeded to light a candle. "This way,
if you please." And she led Elvira upstairs into a bedroom. "The fact is," said she, sitting
down, "that my husband cannot paint."

"No more can mine act," replied Elvira.

"I should have thought he could," returned the other; "he seems clever."

"He is so, and the best of men besides," said Elvira; "but he cannot act."

"At least he is not a sheer humbug like mine; he can at least sing."

"You mistake Léon," returned his wife warmly. "He does not even pretend to sing; he has too
fine a taste; he does so for a living. And, believe me, neither of the men are humbugs. They
are people with a mission--which they cannot carry out."

"Humbug or not," replied the other, "you came very near passing the night in the fields; and,
for my part, I live in terror of starvation. I should think it was a man's mission to think
twice about his wife. But it appears not. Nothing is their mission but to play the fool. Oh!"
she broke out, "is it not something dreary to think of that man of mine? If he could only do
it, who would care? But no--not he--no more than I can!"

"Have you any children?" asked Elvira.

"No; but then I may."

"Children change so much," said Elvira, with a sigh.

