No name is more intimately associated with the national movement of 1798 than that of Theobald
Wolfe Tone. He was its main-spring, its leading spirit. Many men connected with it possessed,
as he did, brilliant talents, unfailing courage and determination, and an intense devotion
to the cause; but the order of his genius raised him above them all, and marked him out from
the first as the head and front of the patriot party. He was one of the original founders of
the Society of United Irishmen, which was formed in Belfast in the year 1791. In its early
days this society was simply a sort of reform association, a legal and constitutional body,
having for its chief object the removal of the frightful oppressions by which the Catholic
people of Ireland were tortured and disgraced; but in the troubled and portentous condition
of home and foreign politics, the society could not long retain this character. The futility
of seeking a redress of the national grievances by parliamentary means was becoming apparent
to every understanding. The system of outrage and injustice towards the Catholics, unabating
in its severity, continued to exasperate the actual sufferers and to offend all men of humane
feelings and enlightened principles; and, at the same time, the electric influence of the American
War of Independence and the French Revolution was operating powerfully in every heart, evoking
there the aspiration for Irish freedom, and inspiring a belief in its possible attainment.
In the midst of such exciting circumstances the society could not continue to stand on its
original basis. In the year 1794, after a debate among the members, followed by the withdrawal
of the more moderate or timid among them from its ranks, it assumed the form and character
of a secret revolutionary organization; and Tone, Thomas Addis Emmet, Samuel Neilson, Thomas
Russell, James Napper Tandy, with a number of other patriotic gentlemen in Belfast, Dublin,
and other parts of the country, soon found themselves in the full swing of an insurrectionary
movement, plotting and planning for the complete overthrow of British power in Ireland. Thenceforward,
for some time, the organization went on rapidly extending through the province of Ulster, in
the first instance, and subsequently over most of the midland and southern counties.

Such was the state of affairs when, in the early part of 1794, an emissary from the French
government arrived in Ireland, to ascertain to what extent the Irish people were likely to
co-operate with France in a war against England. This individual was the Rev. William Jackson,
an Irish Protestant clergyman, who had for some years been resident in France, and had become
thoroughly imbued with Democratic and Republican principles. Unfortunately, he was not one
of the most prudent of envoys. He revealed his mission to an acquaintance of his, an English
attorney, named Cockayne, who repaid his confidence by betraying his secrets to the government.
Cockayne was immediately employed as a spy upon Jackson's further proceedings, in which capacity
he accompanied his unsuspecting victim to Ireland, and acquired cognizance of most of his negotiations.
On the 28th of April; 1794, Jackson was arrested on a charge of high treason. He was brought
to speedy trial, was found guilty, but was not sentenced, for, on the day on which the law's
award was to have been announced to him, he contrived, before entering the court, to swallow
a dose of poison, from the effects of which he expired in the dock. Tone, with whom Jackson
was known to have been in confidential communication, was placed by those events in a very
critical position; owing, however, to some influence which had been made with the government
on his behalf, he was permitted to exile himself to America. As he had entered into no engagement
with the government regarding his future line of conduct, he made his expatriation the means
of forwarding, in the most effective manner, the designs he had at heart. He left Dublin for
Philadelphia on the 20th of May, 1795. One of his first acts, after arriving, was to present
to the French Minister there resident a memorial on the state of Ireland. During the remaining
months of the year letters from his old friends came pouring in on him, describing the brightening
prospects of the cause at home, and urging him to proceed to the French capital and impress
upon the Directory the policy of despatching at once an expedition to ensure the success of
the Irish revolutionary movement.

Tone was not the man to disregard such representations. He had at the time a fair prospect
of securing a comfortable independence in America, but with the full concurrence of his heroic
wife, who had accompanied him across the Atlantic, he sacrificed those chances and resumed
the perilous duties of an Irish patriot. On the 1st of January, 1796, he left New York for
Paris to try what he could do as a diplomatist for the cause of Ireland. Arrived at the French
capital, he had his business communicated to the Directory through the medium of an Irish gentleman,
named Madgett, and also by memorial, representing always that the landing of a force of 20,000
men in Ireland, with a supply of arms for the peasantry, would ensure the separation of Ireland
from England. Not satisfied with the slow progress he was thus achieving, he went on the 24th
of February direct to the Luxemburg Palace, and sought and obtained an interview with the War
Minister, the celebrated Carnot, the "organizer of victory." The Minister received him well,
listened attentively to his statements, discussed his project with him, and appeared much impressed
with the prospects it presented. The result was that on the 16th of December in the same year,
a splendid expedition sailed from Brest for Ireland. It consisted of seventeen sail of the
line, thirteen frigates and fifteen transports, with some smaller craft, and had on board 15,000
troops, with a large supply of arms for the Irish patriots. Tone himself, who had received
the rank of Adjutant-General in the French service, was on board one of the vessels. Had this
force been disembarked on the shores of Ireland, it is hardly possible to doubt that the separation
of this country from England would have been effected. But the expedition was unfortunate from
the outset. It was scattered on the voyage during a gale of wind, and the Admiral's vessel,
with Hoche, the Commander, on board, was separated from the others. A portion of the expedition
entered the magnificent Bay of Bantry and waited there several days in expectation of being
rejoined by the vessel containing the Admiral and Commander; but they waited in vain. Tone
vehemently urged that a landing should be effected with the forces then at hand--some 6,500
men--but the officers procrastinated, time was lost, the wind which had been blowing from the
east (that is out the harbour) rose to a perfect hurricane, and on the 27th and 28th of the
month the vessels cut their cables and made the best of their way for France.

This was a terrible blow to the hopes of the Irish organizer. Rage and sadness filled his heart
by turns as the fierce storm blew his vessel out of the bay and across the sea to the land
which he had left under such favourable auspices. But yet he did not resign himself to despair.
As the patient spider renews her web again and again after it has been torn asunder, so did
this indefatigable patriot set to work to repair the misfortune that had occurred, and to build
up another project of assistance for his unfortunate country. His perseverance was not unproductive
of results. The Batavian or Dutch Republic, then in alliance with France, took up the project
that had failed in the Bay of Bantry. In the month of July, 1797, they had assembled in the
Texel an expedition for the invasion of Ireland, nearly, if not quite, as formidable in men
and ships as that which had left Brest in the previous year. Tone was on board the flag ship,
even more joyous and hopeful than he had been on the preceding occasion. But again, as if by
some extraordinary fatality, the weather interposed an obstacle to the realization of the design.
The vessels were ready for sea, the troops were on board, nothing was wanted but a slant of
wind to enable the fleet to get out. But for five weeks it continued to blow steadily in the
adverse direction. The supplies ran low; the patience of the officers, and of the government,
became exhausted--the troops were disembarked and the project abandoned! The second failure
in a matter of such weight and importance was a heavy blow to the heart of the brave Tone.
Elaborate and costly efforts like those which had ended so poorly, he felt could not often
be repeated; the drift of the war was cutting out other work for the fleets and armies of France
and her allies, and the unwelcome conviction began to settle darkly on his mind that never
again would he see such a vision of hope for dear Ireland as that which had shone before him
on those two occasions, and vanished in doubt and gloom.

Yet there was no need to despair. Assurances reached Tone every day that the defeat and humiliation
of England was a settled resolve of the French Government, one which they would never abandon.
And for a time everything seemed to favour the notion that a direct stroke at the heart of
England was intended. In the latter part of 1797 the Directory ordered the formation of "The
Army of England," the command of which was given to General Buonaparte. Tone's heart again
beat high with hope, for now matters looked more promising than ever. He was in constant communication
with some of the chief officers of the expedition, and in the month of December he had several
interviews with Buonaparte himself, which however he could hardly consider of a satisfactory
nature. On the 20th of May, 1798, General Buonaparte embarked on board the fleet at Toulon
and sailed off--not for Ireland or England, but for Egypt.

On the Irish leaders at home these repeated disappointments fell with terrible effect. The
condition of the country was daily growing more critical. The government, now thoroughly roused
and alarmed, and persuaded that the time for "vigorous measures" had arrived, was grappling
with the conspiracy in all directions. Still those men would, if they could, have got the people
to possess their souls in patience and wait for aid from abroad before unfurling the banner
of insurrection; for they were constant in their belief that without the presence of a disciplined
army on Irish soil to consolidate their strength and direct it, a revolutionary effort of the
Irish people could end only in disaster. But the government had reasons of their own for wishing
to set an Irish rebellion afoot at this time, and they took measures to precipitate the rising.
The arrest of the delegates at the house of Oliver Bond in Dublin, and the capture of Lord
Edward Fitzgerald contributed to this end; but these things the country might have peacably
endured if no more dreadful trial had been put upon it. What could not be endured was the system
of riot and outrage, and murder, to which the unfortunate peasantry were then given over. Words
fail to describe its cruelty and its horrors. It was too much for human nature to bear. On
the 23rd of May, three days after Buonaparte had sailed from Toulon for Alexandria, the Irish
insurrection broke out. The news of the occurrence created the most intense excitement among
the Irish refugees then in Paris. Tone rushed to and fro to the Directory and to the generals,
pleading for the despatch of some assistance to his struggling countrymen. Various plans were
suggested and taken into consideration, but while time was being wasted in this way, the military
forces of the British Government were rapidly suppressing the insurrection of the unarmed and
undisciplined Irish peasantry. In this condition of affairs a gallant but rash and indiscreet
French officer, General Humbert, resolved that he would commit the Directory to action, by
starting at once with a small force for the coast of Ireland. Towards the middle of August,
calling together the merchants and magistrates of Rochelle, "he forced them to advance a small
sum of money, and all that he wanted, on military requisition; and embarking on board a few
frigates and transports with 1,000 men, 1,000 spare muskets, 1,000 guineas, and a few pieces
of artillery, he compelled the captains to set sail for the most desperate attempt which is,
perhaps, recorded in history." Three Irishmen were on board the fleet--Matthew Tone, brother
to Theobald, Bartholomew Teeling, and Sullivan, an officer in the French service, who was enthusiastically
devoted to the Irish cause, and had rendered much aid to his patriotic countrymen in France.
Humbert landed at Killala, routed with his little handful of men a large force of the royal
troops, and held his ground until General Lake, with 20,000 men marched against him. After
a resistance sufficient to maintain the honour of the French arms, Humbert's little force surrendered
as prisoners of war. The Irish who had joined his standard were shown no mercy. The peasantry
were cruelly butchered. Of those who had accompanied him from France, Sullivan, who was able
to pass as a Frenchman, escaped; Teeling and Matthew Tone were brought in irons to Dublin,
tried, and executed. The news of Humbert's expedition and the temporary success that had attended
it created much excitement in France, and stirred up the Directory to attempt something for
Ireland more worthy of the fame and power of the French nation, and more in keeping with their
repeated promises to the leaders of the Irish movement. But their fleet was at the time greatly
reduced, and their resources were in a state of disorganization. They mustered for the expedition
only one sail of the line and eight small frigates, commanded by Commodore Bompart, conveying
5,000 men under the leadership of General Hardy. On board the Admiral's vessel, which was named
the Hoche, was the heroic Theobald Wolfe Tone. He knew this expedition had no chance of success,
but he had all along declared, "that if the government sent only a corporal's guard, he felt
it his duty to go along with them." The vessels sailed on the 20th of September, 1798; it was
not till the 11th October that they arrived off Lough Swilly--simultaneously with an English
squadron that had been on the look out for them. The English ships were about equal in number
to the French, but were of a larger class, and carried a much heavier armament. The French
Admiral directed some of his smaller craft to endeavour to escape by means of their light draught
of water, and he counselled Tone to transfer himself to that one of them which had the best
chance of getting away. The Frenchmen, he observed, would be made prisoners of war, but for
the Irish rebel a worse fate was reserved if he should fall into the hand of his enemies. But
to this suggestion the noble-hearted Tone declined to accede. "Shall it be said," he replied,
"that I fled while the French were fighting the battles of my country." In a little time the
Hoche was surrounded by four sail of the line and one frigate, who poured their shot into her
upon all sides. During six hours she maintained the unequal combat, fighting "till her masts
and rigging were cut away, her scuppers flowed with blood, her wounded filled the cockpit,
her shattered ribs yawned at each new stroke, and let in five feet of water in the hold, her
rudder was carried off, and she floated a dismantled wreck on the water; her sails and cordage
hung in shreds, nor could she reply with a single gun from her dismounted batteries to the
unabating cannonade of the enemy." During the action Tone commanded one of the batteries "and
fought with the utmost desperation, as if he was courting death." But, as often has happened
in similiar cases, death seemed to shun him, and he was reserved for a more tragic fate.

The French officers who survived the action, and had been made prisoners of war, were, some
days subsequently, invited to breakfast with the Earl of Cavan, who commanded in the district
in which they had been landed. Tone, who up to that time, had escaped recognition, was one
of the party, and sat undistinguished among them, until Sir George Hill, who had been a fellow-student
of his in Trinity College, entered the room and accosted him by his name. This was done, not
inadvertently, but with the intention of betraying him. In a moment he was in the hands of
a party of military and police who were in waiting for him in the next room. Seeing that they
were about to put him in fetters, he complained indignantly of the offering of such an insult
to the uniform which he wore, and the rank--that of Chef de Brigade--which he bore in the French
army. He cast off his regimentals, protesting that they should not be so sullied, and then,
offering his limbs to the irons, exclaimed--"For the cause which I have embraced, I feel prouder
to wear these chains, than if I were decorated with the Star and Garter of England." He was
hurried off to Dublin, and though the ordinary tribunals were sitting at the time, and the
military tribunals could have no claim on him, as he had never belonged to the English army,
he was put on his trial before a court-martial. This was absolutely an illegal proceeding,
but his enemies were impatient for his blood, and would not brook the chances and the delays
of the ordinary procedure of law. On the 10th of November, 1798, his trial, if such it might
be called, took place in one of the Dublin barracks. He appeared before the Court "dressed,"
says the Dublin Magazine for November, 1798, "in the French uniform: a large cocked hat, with
broad gold lace and the tri-coloured cockade; a blue uniform coat, with gold-embroidered collar
and two large gold epaulets; blue pantaloons, with gold-laced garters at the knees; and short
boots, bound at the tops with gold lace." In his bearing there was no trace of excitement.
"The firmness and cool serenity of his whole deportment," writes his son, "gave to the awestruck
assembly the measure of his soul," The proceedings of the Court are detailed in the following
report, which we copy from the "Life of Tone," by his son, published at Washington, U.S., in
1826:--

   The members of the Court having been sworn, the Judge Advocate called
   on the prisoner to plead guilty or not guilty to the charge of having
   acted traitorously and hostilely against the King. Tone replied:--

   "I mean not to give the court any useless trouble, and wish to spare
   them the idle task of examining witnesses. I admit all the facts
   alleged, and only request leave to read an address which I have
   prepared for this occasion."

   Colonel DALY--"I must warn the prisoner that, in acknowledging those
   facts, he admits, to his prejudice, that he has acted
   traitorously against his Majesty. Is such his intention?"

   TONE--"Stripping this charge of the technicality of its terms, it
   means, I presume, by the word traitorously, that I have been found in
   arms against the soldiers of the King in my native country. I admit
   this accusation in its most extended sense, and request again to
   explain to the court the reasons and motives of my conduct."

   The court then observed they would hear his address, provided he kept
   himself within the bounds of moderation.

   Tone rose, and began in these words--"Mr. President and Gentlemen of
   the Court-Martial, I mean not to give you the trouble of bringing
   judicial proof to convict me legally of having acted in hostility to
   the government of his Britannic Majesty in Ireland. I admit the fact.
   From my earliest youth I have regarded the connection between Great
   Britain and Ireland as the curse of the Irish nation, and felt
   convinced that, whilst it lasted, this country could never be free
   nor happy. My mind has been confirmed in this opinion by the
   experience of every succeeding year, and the conclusions which I have
   drawn from every fact before my eyes. In consequence, I was
   determined to employ all the powers which my individual efforts could
   move, in order to separate the two countries. That Ireland was not
   able of herself to throw off the yoke, I knew; I therefore sought for
   aid wherever it was to be found. In honourable poverty I rejected
   offers which, to a man in my circumstances, might be considered
   highly advantageous. I remained faithful to what I thought the cause
   of my country, and sought in the French Republic an ally to rescue
   three millions of my countrymen from--"

   The President here interrupted the prisoner, observing that this
   language was neither relevant to the charge, nor such as ought to be
   delivered in a public court.

   A Member said it seemed calculated only to inflame the minds of a
   certain description of people (the United Irishmen), many of whom
   might be present, and that the court could not suffer it.

   The JUDGE ADVOCATE said--"If Mr. Tone meant this paper to be laid
   before his Excellency in way of extenuation, it must have quite a
   contrary effect, if the foregoing part was suffered to remain." The
   President wound up by calling on the prisoner to hesitate before
   proceeding further in the same strain.

   TONE then continued--"I believe there is nothing in what remains for
   me to say which can give any offence; I mean to express my feelings
   and gratitude towards the Catholic body, in whose cause I was
   engaged."

   PRESIDENT--"That seems to have nothing to say to the charge against
   you, to which you are only to speak. If you have anything to offer in
   defence or extenuation of the charge, the court will hear you, but
   they beg you will confine yourself to that subject."

   TONE--"I shall, then, confine myself to some points relative to my
   connection with the French army. Attached to no party in the French
   Republic--without interest, without money, without intrigue--the
   openness and integrity of my views raised me to a high and
   confidential rank in its armies. I obtained the confidence of the
   Executive Directory, the approbation of my generals, and I will
   venture to add, the esteem and affection of my brave comrades. When I
   review these circumstances, I feel a secret and internal consolation
   which no reverse of fortune, no sentence in the power of this court
   to inflict, can deprive me of, or weaken in any degree. Under the
   flag of the French Republic I originally engaged with a view to save
   and liberate my own country. For that purpose I have encountered the
   chances of war amongst strangers; for that purpose I repeatedly
   braved the terrors of the ocean, covered, as I knew it to be, with
   the triumphant fleets of that power which it was my glory and my
   duty to oppose. I have sacrificed all my views in life; I have
   courted poverty; I have left a beloved wife unprotected, and children
   whom I adored fatherless. After such a sacrifice, in a cause which I
   have always considered--conscientiously considered--as the cause of
   justice and freedom, it is no great effort, at this day, to add the
   sacrifice of my life. But I hear it said that this unfortunate
   country has been a prey to all sorts of horrors. I sincerely lament
   it. I beg, however, it may be remembered that I have been absent four
   years from Ireland. To me these sufferings can never be attributed. I
   designed by fair and open war to procure the separation of the two
   countries. For open war I was prepared, but instead of that a system
   of private assassination has taken place. I repeat, whilst I deplore
   it, that it is not chargeable on me. Atrocities, it seems, have been
   committed on both sides. I do not less deplore them. I detest them
   from my heart; and to those who know my character and sentiments I
   may safely appeal for the truth of this assertion; with them I need
   no justification. In a case like this success is everything. Success,
   in the eyes of the vulgar, fixes its merits. Washington succeeded,
   and Kosciusko failed. After a combat nobly sustained--combat which
   would have excited the respect and sympathy of a generous enemy--my
   fate has been to become a prisoner, to the eternal disgrace of those
   who gave the orders. I was brought here in irons like a felon. I
   mention this for the sake of others; for me, I am indifferent to it.
   I am aware of the fate which awaits me, and scorn equally the tone of
   complaint and that of supplication. As to the connection between this
   country and Great Britain, I repeat it--all that has been imputed to
   me (words, writings, and actions), I here deliberately avow. I have
   spoken and acted with reflection and on principle, and am ready to
   meet the consequences. Whatever be the sentence of the court, I am
   prepared for it. Its members will surely discharge their duty--I
   shall take care not to be wanting in mine."

   The court having asked if he wished to make any further observation,

   TONE said--"I wish to offer a few words relative to one single
   point--the mode of punishment. In France our emigrees, who stand
   nearly in the same situation in which I now stand before you, are
   condemned to be shot. I ask that the court shall adjudge me the death
   of a soldier, and let me be shot by a platoon of grenadiers. I
   request this indulgence rather in consideration of the uniform I
   wear--the uniform of a Chef de Brigade in the French army--than from
   any personal regard to myself. In order to evince my claim to this
   favour, I beg that the court may take the trouble to peruse my
   commission and letters of service in the French army. It will appear
   from these papers that I have not received them as a mask to cover
   me, but that I have been long and bona fide an officer in the
   French service."

   JUDGE ADVOCATE--"You must feel that the papers you allude to will
   serve as undeniable proof against you."

   TONE--"Oh, I know they will. I have already admitted the facts, and
   I now admit the papers as full proof of conviction."

   [The papers were then examined; they consisted of a brevet of Chef de
   Brigade from the Directory, signed by the Minister of War, of a
   letter of service granting to him the rank of Adjutant-General, and
   of a passport.]

   General LOFTUS--"In these papers you are designated as serving in the
   army of England."

   TONE--"I did serve in that army, when it was commanded by Buonaparte,
   by Dessaix, and by Kilmaine, who is, as I am, an Irishman; but I have
   also served elsewhere."

   The Court requested if he had anything further to observe.

   He said that nothing more occurred to him, except that the sooner his
   Excellency's approbation of the sentence was obtained the better.

This is Tone's speech, as reported in the public prints at that time, but the recently-published
"Correspondence" of Lord Cornwallis--Lord Lieutenant in those days--supplies a portion of the
address which was never before published, the Court having forbade the reading of it at the
trial. The passage contains a noble outburst of gratitude towards the Catholics of Ireland.
Tone himself, as every reader is aware, was a Protestant, and there can have been no reason
for its suppression except the consideration that it was calculated to still more endear the
prisoner to the hearts of his countrymen. We now reprint it, and thus place it for the first
time before the people for whom it was written:--

   "I have laboured to create a people in Ireland by raising three
   millions of my countrymen to the rank of citizens. I have laboured to
   abolish the infernal spirit of religious persecution, by uniting the
   Catholics and Dissenters. To the former I owe more than ever can be
   repaid. The services I was so fortunate as to render them they
   rewarded munificently; but they did more: when the public cry was
   raised against me--when the friends of my youth swarmed off and left
   me alone--the Catholics did not desert me; they had the virtue even
   to sacrifice their own interests to a rigid principle of honour; they
   refused, though strongly urged, to disgrace a man who, whatever his
   conduct towards the government might have been, had faithfully and
   conscientiously discharged his duty towards them; and in so doing,
   though it was in my own case, I will say they showed an instance of
   public, virtue of which I know not whether there exists another
   example."

