§ 69. He will laugh at one who will not act unless he has the Choice of the Drama, and a Composer
to his liking; with this additional Condition, not to sing in Company with such a Man, or without
such a Woman.

§ 70. With the like Derision, he will observe some others, who with an Humility worse than
Pride, go from one Box to another, gathering Praises from the most illustrious Persons, under
a Pretence of a most profound Obsequiousness, and become in every Representation more and more
familiar. Humility and Modesty are most beautiful Virtues; but if they are not accompanied
with a little Decorum, they have some Resemblance to Hypocrisy.

§ 71. He will have no great Opinion of one, who is not satisfied with his Part, and never learns
it; of one, who never sings in an Opera without thrusting in one Air which he always carries
in his Pocket; of one, who bribes the Composer to give him an Air that was intended for another;
of one, who takes Pains about Trifles, and neglects Things of Importance; of one, who, by procuring
undeserved Recommendations, makes himself and his Patron ridiculous; of one, who does not sustain
his Voice, out of Aversion to the Pathetick; of one, who gallops to follow the Mode; and of
all the bad Singers, who, not knowing what's good, court the Mode to learn its Defects.

§ 72. To sum up all, he will call none a Singer of Merit, but him who is correct; and who executes
with a Variety of Graces of his own, which his Skill inspires him with unpremeditately; knowing,
that a Professor of Eminence cannot, if he would, continually repeat an Air with the self-same
Passages and Graces. He who sings premeditately, shews he has learn'd his Lesson at Home.

§ 73. After having corrected several other Abuses and Defects, to the Advantage of the Singer,
he will return with stronger Reasons to persuade him to have Recourse to the fundamental Rules,
which will teach him to proceed on the Bass from one Interval to another, with sure Steps,
and without Danger of erring. If then the Singer should say, Sir, you trouble yourself in vain;
for the bare Knowledge of the Errors is not sufficient; I have need of other Help than Words,
and I know not where to find it, since it seems that there is at present such a Scarcity of
good Examples in Italy: Then, shrugging his Shoulders, he will answer him, rather with Sighs
than Words; that he must endeavour to learn of the best Singers that there are; particularly
by observing two of the fair Sex,[108] of a Merit superior to all Praise; who with equal Force,
in a different Stile, help to keep up the tottering Profession from immediately falling into
Ruin. The one is inimitable for a privileg'd Gift of Singing, and for enchanting the World
with a prodigious Felicity in executing, and with a singular Brilliant (I know not whether
from Nature or Art) which pleases to Excess. The delightful, soothing Cantabile of the other,
joined with the Sweetness of a fine Voice, a perfect Intonation, Strictness of Time, and the
rarest Productions of a Genius, are Qualifications as particular and uncommon, as they are
difficult to be imitated. The Pathetick of the one, and the Allegro of the other, are the Qualities
the most to be admired respectively in each of them. What a beautiful Mixture would it be,
if the Excellence of these two angelick Creatures could be united in one single Person! But
let us not lose Sight of the Master.

§ 74. He will also convince the Scholar, that the Artifice of a Professor is never more pleasing,
than when he deceives the Audience with agreeable Surprizes; for which reason he will advise
him to have Recourse to a seeming Plainness, as if he aim'd at nothing else.

§ 75. But when the Audience is in no farther Expectation, and (as I may say) grows indolent,
he will direct him to rouse them that Instant with a Grace.

§ 76. When they are again awake, he will direct him to return to his feigned Simplicity, though
it will no more be in his power to delude those that hear him, for with an impatient Curiosity
they already expect a second, and so on.

§ 77. He will give him ample Instructions concerning Graces of all sorts, and furnish him with
Rules and profitable Documents.

§ 78. Here should I inveigh (though I could not enough) against the Treachery of my Memory,
that has not preserved, as it ought, all those peculiar Excellencies which a great Man did
once communicate to me, concerning Passages and Graces; and to my great Sorrow, and perhaps
to the Loss of others, it will not serve me to publish any more than these few poor Remains,
the Impressions of which are still left, and which I am now going to mention.

CHAP. X.

Of Passages or Graces.

Passages or Graces being the principal Ornaments in Singing, and the most favourite Delight
of the Judicious, it is proper that the Singer be very attentive to learn this Art.

§ 2. Therefore, let him know, that there are five principal Qualifications, which being united,
will bring him to admirable Perfection, viz. Judgment, Invention, Time, Art, and Taste.

§ 3. There are likewise five subaltern Embellishments viz. the Appoggiatura, the Shake, the
putting forth of the Voice, the Gliding, and Dragging.

The principal Qualifications teach,

§ 4. That the Passages and Graces cannot be form'd but from a profound Judgment.

§ 5. That they are produced by a singular and beautiful Invention, remote from all that is
vulgar and common.

§ 6. That, being govern'd by the rigorous, but necessary, Precepts of Time, they never transgress
its regulated Measure, without losing their own Merit.

§ 7. That, being guided by the most refined Art on the Bass, they may There (and no where else)
find their Center; there to sport with Delight, and unexpectedly to charm.

§ 8. That, it is owing to an exquisite Taste, that they are executed with that sweet putting
forth of the Voice, which is so enchanting.

From the accessory Qualities is learned,

§ 9. That the Graces or Passages be easy in appearance, thereby to give universal Delight.

§ 10. That in effect They be difficult that thereby the Art of the Inventor be the more admired.

§ 11. That They be performed with an equal regard to the Expression of the Words, and the Beauty
of the Art.

§ 12. That They be gliding or dragging in the Pathetick, for They have a better Effect than
those that are mark'd.

§ 13. That They do not appear studied, in order to be the more regarded.

§ 14. That They be softened with the Piano in the Pathetick, which will make them more affecting.

§ 15. That in the Allegro They be sometimes accompanied with the Forte and the Piano, so as
to make a sort of Chiaro Scuro.

§ 16. That They be confin'd to a Group of a few Notes, which are more pleasing than those which
are too numerous.

§ 17. That in a slow Time, there may be a greater Number of them (if the Bass allows it) with
an Obligation upon the Singer to keep to the Point propos'd, that his Capacity be made more
conspicuous.

§ 18. That They be properly introduc'd, for in a wrong Place They disgust.

§ 19. That They come not too close together, in order to keep them distinct.

§ 20. That They should proceed rather from the Heart than from the Voice, in order to make
their way to the Heart more easily.

§ 21. That They be not made on the second or fourth Vowel, when closely pronounc'd, and much
less on the third and fifth.

§ 22. That They be not copied, if you would not have them appear defective.

§ 23. That They be stol'n on the Time, to captivate the Soul.

§ 24. That They never be repeated in the same place, particularly in Pathetick Airs, for there
they are the most taken Notice of by the Judicious.

§ 25. And, above all, let them be improv'd; by no means let them lose in the Repetition.

§ 26. Many Professors are of Opinion, that in Graces there is no room for the marked Divisions,
unless mix'd with some of the aforesaid Embellishments or some other agreable Accidents.

§ 27. But it is now time that we speak of the Dragging, that, if the Pathetick should once
return again into the World, a Singer might be able to understand it. The Explanation would
be easier understood by Notes of Musick than by Words, if the Printer was not under great Difficulty
to print a few Notes; notwithstanding which, I'll endeavour, the best I can, to make myself
understood.

§ 28. When on an even and regular Movement of a Bass, which proceeds slowly, a Singer begins
with a high Note, dragging it gently down to a low one, with the Forte and Piano, almost gradually,
with Inequality of Motion, that is to say, stopping a little more on some Notes in the Middle,
than on those that begin or end the Strascino or Dragg.[109] Every good musician takes it for
granted, that in the Art of Singing there is no Invention superior, or Execution more apt to
touch the Heart than this, provided however it be done with Judgment, and with putting forth
of the Voice in a just Time on the Bass. Whosoever has most Notes at Command, has the greater
Advantage; because this pleasing Ornament is so much the more to be admired, by how much the
greater the Fall is. Perform'd by an excellent Soprano, that makes use of it but seldom, it
becomes a Prodigy; but as much as it pleases descending, no less would it displease ascending.

§ 29. Mind this, O my beloved Singers! For it is to You only, who are inclined to study, that
I have addressed myself. This was the Doctrine of the School of those Professors, whom, by
way of Reproach, some mistaken Persons call Ancients. Observe carefully its Rules, examine
strictly its Precepts, and, if not blinded by Prejudice, you will see that this School ought
to sing in Tune, to put forth the Voice, to make the Words understood, to express, to use proper
Gesture, to perform in Time, to vary on its Movement, to compose, and to study the Pathetick,
in which alone Taste and Judgment triumph. Confront this School with yours, and if its Precepts
should not be sufficient to instruct you, learn what's wanting from the Modern.

§ 30. But if these my Exhortations, proceeding from my Zeal, have no Weight with you, as the
Advice of Inferiors is seldom regarded, allow at least, that whoever has the Faculty of Thinking,
may once in sixty Years think right. And if you think, that I have been too partial to the
Times past, then would I persuade you, (if you have not a shaking Hand) to weigh in a just
Ballance your most renowned Singers; who you take to be Moderns (but are not so, except in
their Cadences;) and having undeceived yourselves, you will perceive in them, that instead
of Affectations, Abuses, and Errors, They sing according to those powerful Lessons that give
Delight to the Soul, and whose Perfections have made Impressions on me, and which I shall always
remember with the greatest Pleasure. Do but consult them, as I have done, and they will truly
and freely tell you, That They sell their Jewels where they are understood; That the Singers
of Eminence are not of the Mode, and that at present there are many bad Singers.

§ 31. True it is, that there are some, tho' few, very good Singers, who, when the Vehemence
of their youthful fire is abated, will by their Examples do Justice to their delightful Profession,
in keeping up the Splendor of it, and will leave to Posterity a lasting and glorious Fame of
their Performances. I point them out to you, that, if you find yourselves in an Error, you
may not want the Means to correct it, nor an Oracle to apply to whenever you have occasion.
From whence I have good Grounds to hope, that the true Taste in Singing will last to the End
of the World.

§ 32. Whoever comprehends what has been demonstrated to him, in these and many other Observations,
will need no farther Incitement to study. Stirred up by his own Desire, he will fly to his
beloved Instrument, from which, by continued Application, he will find he has no Reason to
sit down satisfied with what he has learn'd before. He will make new Discoveries, inventing
new Graces, from whence after comparing them well together, he will chuse the best, and will
make use of them as long as he thinks them so; but, going on in refining, he will find others
more deserving his Esteem. To conclude, from these he will proceed on to an almost infinite
Number of Graces, by the means whereof his Mind will be so opened, that the most hidden Treasures
of the Art, and most remote from his Imagination, will voluntarily present themselves; so that,
unless Pride blinds him, or Study becomes tiresome to him, or his Memory fails him, he will
increase his Store of Embellishments in a Stile which will be entirely his own: The principal
Aim of one that strives to gain the highest Applause.

§ 33. Finally, O ye young Singers, hearken to me for your Profit and Advantage. The Abuses,
the Defects, and the Errors divulged by me in these Observations, (which in Justice ought not
to be charg'd on the Modern Stile) were once almost all Faults I myself was guilty of; and
in the Flower of my Youth, when I thought myself to be a great Man, it was not easy for me
to discover them. But, in a more mature Age, the slow Undeceit comes too late. I know I have
sung ill, and would I have not writ worse! but since I have suffered by my Ignorance, let it
at least serve for a Warning to amend those who wish to sing well. He that studies, let him
imitate the ingenious Bee, that sucks its Honey from the most grateful Flowers. From those
called Ancients, and those supposed Moderns, (as I have said) much may be learn'd; it is enough
to find out the Flower, and know how to distill, and draw the Essence from it.

§ 34. The most cordial, and not less profitable Advice, I can give you, is the following:

§ 35. Remember what has been wisely observed, that Mediocrity of Merit can but for a short
time eclipse the true Sublime, which, how old soever it grows, can never die.

§ 36. Abhor the Example of those who hate Correction; for like Lightning to those who walk
in the Dark, tho' it frightens them, it gives them Light.

§ 37. Learn from the Errors of others: O great Lesson! it costs little, and instructs much.
Of every one something is to be learned, and the most Ignorant is sometimes the greatest Master.

FINIS.

PLATES

Pl. I

Chap. 1.st

Pl. II

Chap. 2d.

Pl. III

Pl. IV

Chap. 3d.

Chap 4th

Chap. 5th

Chap 8th

-ro am[ve]-rò]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] When Arts and Sciences were retrieving from the Barbarism in which they were buried, Musick
chiefly took its Rise in Flanders, and the Composers of Musick of that Nation were dispersed
all over Europe, to the Improvement of others. In Italy there arose from that School, among
several others, P. Alis. Palestrina, a Genius so extraordinary, that he is looked upon as the
Raphael among the Musicians. He lived in Pope Leo the Tenth's Time; and no Musick, that we
know of, is performed at the Pope's Chapel, to this Day, but of his Composition, except the
famous Miserere of Allegri, who liv'd a little time after Palestrina.

[2] Our Author seems to be a little too partial in Favour of the Singer, all momentary Productions
being the same; though it must be allowed, that by reason of the Expression of the Words, any
Error in Singing will be more capital, than if the same were committed on an Instrument.

[3] The Author directs this for the Instruction of a Soprano, or a treble Voice, because Youth
possesses that Voice mostly, and that is the Age when they should begin to study Musick. It
may not be amiss to mention, that the Soprano is most apt to perform the Things required by
your Author, and that every different Scale of Voice has something peculiarly relative to its
Kind as its own Property; for a Soprano has generally most Volubility, and becomes it best;
and also equally the Pathetick. The Contr'Alto more of the Pathetick than the Volubility; the
Tenor less of the Pathetick, but more of the Volubility than the Contr'Alto, though not so
much as the Soprano. The Bass, in general more pompous than any, but should not be so boisterous
as now too often practised.

[4] By this section, and mostly throughout the Work, one sees, the Author calculated this Treatise
chiefly for the Advantage of Professors of Musick; but, notwithstanding, it appears in several
Places, that his Intention is, that all Lovers of Musick should also be the better for it.

[5] The Explanation of Sic vos non vobis, &c., for the Satisfaction of those who do not perfectly
remember it.

Virgil having composed a Distich, containing the Praise of Augustus, and a Compliment on his
good Fortune, fix'd it on the Palace Gate, without any Name subscrib'd. Augustus, making strict
Enquiry after the Author, and Virgil's Modesty not suffering him to own the Verses, one Bathillus,
a Poet of a mean Reputation, owned himself the Author, and received Honour and Reward from
the Emperor. Virgil, somewhat scandalized at this Accident, fixed an Hemistich in these Words
(Sic vos non vobis) four times repeated under the other, where he had placed the former Verses.

    So ye Birds build not your Nests
        For yourselves.
    So ye Sheep bear not your Wool
        For yourselves.
    So ye Bees make not your Honey
        For yourselves.
    So ye Oxen submit to the Plow
        Not for yourselves.

Upon this Discovery, Bathillus became the Ridicule of Rome, and Virgil acquired a double Reputation.

The Distich, which Bathillus claim'd for his, was this:

  Nocte plut totâ, redeunt spectacula manè,
  Divisum Imperium cum Jove Cæsar habet.

i.e. It rain'd all Night; in the Morning the publick Shews return: Jove and Cæsar divide the
Rule of the World. The Compliment is, that Cæsar designing to exhibit Sports to the People,
though the preceding Night was rainy and unpromising, yet such Weather returned with the Morning,
as did not disappoint the Solemnity.

[6] Alla Capella, Church-Musick where the Flats and Sharps are not mark'd.

[7] Seven Cliffs necessary to be known. Pl. I. Numb. 1. By the Help of these Cliffs any Line
or Space may be what Note you please. Pl. I. Numb. 2.

[8] It is necessary to understand the Sol-Fa-ing, and its Rules, which shew where the two Semitones
lie in each Octave, Pl. I. Numb. 3. Where Flats or Sharps are marked at the Cliff, the Rule
is, if one Flat, That is Fa; if more Flats, the last. If one Sharp, That is Mi; if more Sharps,
the last.

[9] His meaning is, that the French are not in the right.

[10] See § 2, and the following, in Chap. III. where the Difficulty of the Semitone Major and
Minor are cleared.

[12] Register; a Term taken from the different Stops of an Organ.

[13] The Pitch of Lombardy or Venice, is something more than half a Tone higher than at Rome.

[14] A Messa di Voce is the holding out and swelling a Note. Vide Pl. I. Numb. 4. This being
a Term of Art, it is necessary to use it, as well as Piano for soft, and Forte for loud. N.B.
Our Author recommends here to use any Grace sparingly, which he does in several other Places,
and with Reason; for the finest Grace too often repeated grows tiresome.

[15] See for Appoggiatura in the next Chapter.

[16] This Chapter contains some Enquiries into Matters of Curiosity, and demands a little Attention.
The Reader therefore is desired to postpone it to the last.

[17] Appoggiatura is a Word to which the English Language has not an Equivalent; it is a Note
added by the Singer, for the arriving more gracefully to the following Note, either in rising
or falling, as is shewn by the Examples in Notes of Musick, Pl. II. Numb. 2. The French express
it by two different Terms, Port de Voix and Appuyer; as the English do by a Prepare and a Lead.
The Word Appoggiatura is derived from Appoggiare to lean on. In this Sense, you lean on the
first to arrive at the Note intended, rising or falling; and you dwell longer on the Preparation,
than the Note for which the Preparation is made, and according to the Value of the Note. The
same in a Preparation to a Shake, or a Beat from the Note below. No Appoggiatura can be made
at the Beginning of a Piece; there must be a Note preceding, from whence it leads.

[18] Here begins the Examination of the Semitones Major and Minor, which he promised in § 15.
Ch. 1. It may be of Satisfaction to the Studious, to set this Matter at once in a true Light;
by which our Author's Doubts will be cleared, and his Reasoning the easier understood. A Semitone
Major changes Name, Line, and Space: A Semitone Minor changes neither. Pl. II. Numb. 1. To
a Semitone Major one can go with a Rise or a Fall distinctly; to a Semitone Minor one cannot
N.B. From a Tone Minor the Appoggiatura is better and easier than from a Tone Major.

[19] These are all Tones Major and Minor, and Semitones Major. Pl. II. Numb. 2.

[20] Because they are Semitones Major. Pl. II. Numb. 3.

[21] Because they are Semitones Major. Pl. II. Numb. 4.

[22] Because they are all Semitones Minor, which may be known by the abovementioned Rule, of
their not changing Name, Line, nor Space. Pl. II. Numb. 5. and which makes it manifest, that
a Semitone Minor cannot bear an Appoggiatura.

[23] For the same Reason, these being Semitones Minor. Pl. II. Numb. 6.

[24] Because one is a Semitone Major, and the other a Semitone Minor. Pl. III. Numb. 7.

[25] Because they are Semitones Minor. Pl. III, Numb. 8.

[26] The Tone, or Mood, you are in, will determine which is a Tone Major or Minor; for if you
change the Mood or Tone, that which was the Tone Major may become the Tone Minor, and so Vice
Versâ: Therefore these two Examples from C to D, and from F to G, do not hold true.

[27] His Perplexity comes from a wrong Notion, in not distinguishing those two Semitones.

[28] All Intervals, rising with an Appoggiatura, arise to the Note with a sort of Beat, more
or less: and the same, descending, arrive to the Note with a sort of Shake, more or less. Pl.
III. Numb. 9, 10. One cannot agreeably ascend or descend the Interval of a third Major or Minor,
Pl. III. Numb 11. But gradually very well. Pl. III. Numb. 12. Examples of false or deceitful
Intervals. Pl. III. Numb. 13.

[29] So in all Cases where the Interval is deceitful. Pl. III. Numb. 14. With a Messa di Voce.
Pl. III. Numb. 15. See for Messa di Voce, Chap. I. § 29, and its Note.

[30] In all the modern Italian Compositions the Appoggiatura's are mark'd, supposing the Singers
to be ignorant where to place them. The French use them for their Lessons on the Harpsichord,
&c., but seldom for the Voice.

[31] See for the several Examples of the Shakes, Pl. IV.

[32] The first Shake of a Tone, Pl. IV. Numb. 1.

[33] See for the Meaning of superior and inferior Cadences, Chap. VIII. § 1. Pl. V. Numb. 3.
N.B. Prom the inferior or lower Cadences, the first, or full, Tone Shake, is not always excluded;
for in a sharp Key it is always a Tone, and in a flat Key a Semitone, Pl. IV. Numb. 3.

[34] The second Shake of a Semitone Major, Pl. IV. Numb. 2.

[35] The third the short Shake. Pl. IV. Numb. 4.

[36] The fourth the rising Shake. Pl. IV. Numb. 5.

[37] The fifth the descending Shake. Pl. IV. Numb. 6.

[38] The sixth the slow Shake. Pl. IV. Numb. 7.

[39] The seventh the redoubled Shake. Pl. IV. Numb. 8.

[40] The eighth the Trillo-Mordente, or Shake with a Beat. Pl. IV. Numb. 9.

[41] Shakes are generally proper from preceding Notes descending, but not ascending, except
on particular Occasions. Never too many, or too near one another; but very bad to begin with
them, which is too frequently done. The using so often Beats, Shakes, and Prepares, is owing
to Lessons on the Lute, Harpsichord, and other Instruments, whose Sounds discontinue, and therefore
have Need of this Help.

[42] The mark'd Divisions should be something like the Staccato on the Violin, but not too
much; against which a Caution will presently be given.

[43] The Gliding Notes are like several Notes in one Stroke of the Bow on the Violin.

[44] The pronouncing Eror instead of Error; or Dally instead of Daly. The not distinguishing;
the double Consonants from the single, is an Error but too common at present.

[45] See for the syncopated, Ligatura, or binding Notes, Pl. IV. Numb. 10.

[46] Madrigals are Pieces in several Parts; the last in Practice were about threescore Years
ago; then the Opera's began to be in Vogue, and good Musick and the Knowledge of it began to
decline.

[47] Musica di Camera. Chamber, or private, Musick; where the Multitude is not courted for
Applause, but only the true Judges; and consists chiefly in Cantata's, Duetto's, &c. In the
Recitative of Cantata's, our Author excelled in a singular Manner for the pathetick Expression
of the Words.

[48] Cortona liv'd above forty Years ago. Balarini, in Service at the Court of Vienna, much
in Favour with the Emperor Joseph, who made him a Baron.

[49] See Broken Cadences, Pl. V. Numb. 1.

----Final Cadences, Pl. V. Numb. 2.

[50] Motets, or Anthems.

[51] The Proverb is, Lingua Toscana in bocca Romana.--This regards the different Dialects,
in Italy; as Neapolitan, Venetian, &c. the same, in Comparison, London to York, or Somersetshire.

[52] The Church-Musick in Italy is all in Latin, except Oratorio's, which are Entertainments
in their Churches. It is therefore necessary to have some Notion of the Latin Tongue.

[53] The first Caution against imitating injudiciously the Instrumental with the Voice.

[54] The Italians have a Saying, Voce di Compositore, to denote a bad or an indifferent Voice.

[55] Cantabile, the Tender, Passionate, Pathetick; more Singing than Allegro, which is Lively,
Brisk, Gay, and more in the executive Way.

[56] Suppose the first Part expressed Anger, and the second relented, and was to express Pity
or Compassion, he must be angry again in the Da Capo. This often happens, and is very ridiculous
if not done to a real Purpose, and that the Subject and Poetry require it.

[57] It is supposed, the Scholar is arrived to the Capacity of knowing Harmony and Counterpoint.

[58] The general dividing of Airs described, to which the Author often refers.

[59] With due Deference to our Author, it may be feared, that the Affectation of Singing with
Variety has conduced very much to the introducing a bad Taste.

[60] Continuation of the general dividing Airs in § 4. The End of this Section is a seasonable
Corrective of the Rule prescribed in the foregoing fifth Section.

[61] Rivani, called Ciecolino, must have written some Treatise on Time, which is not come to
us, therefore no further Account can be given of him.

[62] Pistochi was very famous above fifty Years ago, and refined the Manner of singing in Italy,
which was then a little crude. His Merit in this is acknowledged by all his Countrymen, contradicted
by none. Briefly, what is recounted of him, is, that when he first appeared to the World, and
a Youth, he had a very fine treble Voice, admired and encouraged universally, but by a dissolute
Life lost it, and his Fortune. Being reduced to the utmost Misery, he entered into the Service
of a Composer, as a Copyist, where he made use of the Opportunity of learning the Rules of
Composition, and became a good Proficient. After some Years, he recovered a little Glimpse
of Voice, which by Time and Practice turned into a fine Contr'Alto. Having Experience on his
Side, he took Care of it, and as Encouragement came again, he took the Opportunity of travelling
all Europe over, where hearing the different Manners and Tastes, he appropriated them to himself,
and formed that agreeable Mixture, which he produced in Italy, where he was imitated and admired.
He at last past many Years, when in an affluent Fortune, at the Court of Anspach, where he
had a Stipend, and lived an agreeable easy Life; and at last retired to a Convent in Italy.
It has been remark'd, that though several of his Disciples shewed the Improvement they had
from him, yet others made an ill use of it, having not a little contributed to the Introduction
of the modern Taste.

[63] Sifacio, famous beyond any, for the most singular Beauty of his Voice. His Manner of Singing
was remarkably plain, consisting particularly in the Messa di Voce, the putting forth his Voice,
and the Expression.

There is an Italian Saying, that an hundred Perfections are required in an excellent Singer,
and he that hath a fine Voice has ninety-nine of them.

It is also certain, that as much as is allotted to Volubility and Tricks, so much is the Beauty
of the Voice sacrificed; for the one cannot be done without Prejudice to the other.

Sifacio got that Name from his acting the Part of Syphax the first time he appeared on the
Stage. He was in England when famous, and belonged to King James the Second's Chapel. After
which he returned to Italy, continuing to be very much admired, but at last was waylaid, and
murthered for his Indiscretion.

[64] Buzzolini, the Name known, but no Particulars of him.

[65] Litigino, in the Service of the Emperor Joseph, and a Scholar of Pistochi.

[66] Signora Boschi was over in England in Queen Anne's Time; she sung one Season in the Opera's,
returned to Venice, and left her Husband behind for several Years; he sung the Bass. She was
a Mistress of Musick, but her Voice was on the Decay when she came here.

[67] Santini, afterwards Signora Lotti. She was famous above forty Years ago, and appeared
at several Courts in Germany, where she was sent for; then retired to Venice, where she married
Signor Lotti, Chapel-Master of St. Mark.

All these Singers, though they had a Talent particular to themselves, they could, however,
sing in several sorts of Stile; on the contrary, one finds few, but what attempt nothing that
is out of their Way. A modern Singer of the good Stile, being asked, whether such and such
Compositions would not please at present in Italy? No doubt, said he, they would, but where
are the Singers that can sing them?

[68] Those tremendous Airs are called in Italian, un Aria di Bravura; which cannot perhaps
be better translated into English, than a Hectoring Song.

[69] Pierre Simone Agostini lived about threescore Years ago. Several Cantata's of his Composition
are extant, some of them very difficult, not from the Number of Divisions in the vocal Part,
but from the Expression, and the surprising Incidents, and also the Execution of the Basses.
He seems to be the first that put Basses with so much Vivacity; for Charissimi before him composed
with more Simplicity, tho' he is reckoned to be one of the first, who enlivened his Musick
in the Movements of his Basses. Of Pierre-Simone nothing more is known but that he loved his
Bottle, and when he had run up a Bill in some favourite Place, he composed a Cantata, and sent
it to a certain Cardinal, who never failed sending him a fixed Sum, with which he paid off
his Score.

