THE CHURCH OF THE CUP OF COLD WATER. They hastily secured the unfortunate man, who attempted
no resistance. The priest entreated to be allowed to dress his wound, which they permitted;
but when this was done, they insisted on carrying him away immediately. They would not even
procure a carriage; and when they were told of the danger of removing a man so severely wounded,
they merely said: 'What does it matter? If he recovers, it will only be to receive sentence
of death. He is the famous brigand, José!'

José thanked the intercessor with a look. He then asked for a little water, and when the priest
brought it to him, he said in a faint voice: 'Remember!' The reply was merely a sign of intelligence.
When they were gone, notwithstanding all Margarita could say as to the danger of going out
at night, the priest crossed the wood, descended into the valley, and soon found, beside the
body of a woman, who had doubtless been killed by a stray ball of the police, an infant, and
a little boy of about four years old, who was trying in vain to awaken his mother. Imagine
Margarita's amazement when the priest returned with two children in his arms.

'May all good saints defend us! What have you done, señor? We have barely enough to live upon,
and you bring two children! I suppose I must beg from door to door, for you and for them. And,
for mercy's sake, who are these children? The sons of that brigand, gipsy, thief, murderer,
perhaps! I am sure they have never been baptised!' At this moment the infant began to cry.
'And pray, Señor Clérigo, how do you mean to feed that child? You know very well that we have
no means of paying a nurse. We must spoon-feed it, and nice nights that will give me! It cannot
be more than six months old, poor little creature,' she added, as her master placed it in her
arms. 'Fortunately, I have a little milk here;' and forgetting her anger, she busied herself
in putting some milk on the fire, and then sat down beside it to warm the infant, who seemed
half-frozen. Her master watched her in silence, and when at last he saw her kiss its little
cheek, he turned away with a quiet smile.

When at length the little one had been hushed into a gentle slumber, and when Margarita, with
the assistance of her master's cloak, and some of her own clothes, had made a bed for the elder
boy, and placed him in it, the good man told her how the children had been committed to his
care, and the promise he had made, though not in words, to protect them.

Twelve years passed by. The parish priest of San Pietro, who was now more than seventy years
old, was sitting in the sunshine at his door. Near him, a boy of about twelve years old was
reading aloud from the Bible, looking occasionally towards a tall, fine-looking young man,
who was hard at work in a garden close by. Margarita, who was now become blind, sat and listened.
Suddenly, the sound of wheels was heard, and the boy exclaimed: 'Oh! the beautiful carriage!'
A splendid carriage approached rapidly, and stopped before the door. A richly-dressed servant
approached, and asked for a cup of water for his master.

'Carlos,' said the priest to the younger boy, 'go, bring water to the gentleman; and add some
wine, if he will accept it. Go quickly!' At this moment, the carriage-door opened, and a gentleman,
apparently about fifty years old, alighted.

'Are these your nephews?' said he to the priest.

'They are more than that, señor; they are my children--the children of my adoption.'

'How is that?'

'I will tell you, señor; for I am old and poor, and know but little of the world, and am in
much need of advice; for I know not what to do with these two children.' He related the story
we have just told. 'And now, señor, what do you advise me to do?'

'Apply to one of the nobles of the court, who must assign you a pension of four thousand ducats.'

'I asked you for advice, señor, and not for jest.'

'And then, your church must be rebuilt. We will call it the Church of the Cup of Cold Water.
Here is the plan. See, this is to be the vicarage; and here, divided by this paling'----

'What does this mean? What would you say? And, surely, I remember that voice, that face'----

'I am Don José della Ribeira; and twelve years ago, I was the brigand José. I escaped from
prison; and--for the revolution made great changes--am now powerful. My children'----

He clasped them in his arms.

A short time afterwards, Don José della Ribeira and his two sons were present at the consecration
of the church of San-Pietro-del-Vaso-di-Aqua-Fria, one of the prettiest churches in the neighbourhood
of Sevilla.

MUSIC-GRINDERS OF THE METROPOLIS.

Perhaps the pleasantest of all the out-door accessories of a London life are the strains of
fugitive music which one hears in the quiet by-streets or suburban highways--strains born of
the skill of some of our wandering artists, who, with flute, violin, harp, or brazen tube of
various shape and designation, make the brick-walls of the busy city responsive with the echoes
of harmony. Many a time and oft have we lingered entranced by the witchery of some street Orpheus,
forgetful, not merely of all the troubles of existence, but of existence itself, until the
strain had ceased, and silence aroused us to the matter-of-fact world of business. One blind
fiddler, we know him well, with face upturned towards the sky, has stood a public benefactor
any day these twenty years, and we know not how much longer, to receive the substantial homage
of the music-loving million. Then there are the harpers, with their smooth French-horn-breathing
and piccola-piping comrades, who at the soothing hour of twilight affect the tranquil and retired
paved courts or snug enclosures far from the roar and rumble of chariot-wheels, where, clustered
round with lads and lasses released from the toils of the day, they dispense romance and sentiment,
and harmonious cadences, in exchange for copper compliments and the well-merited applause of
fit audiences, though few. Again, there are the valorous brass-bands of the young Germans,
who blow such spirit-stirring appeals from their travel-worn and battered tubes--to say nothing
of the thousand performers of solos and duets, who, wherever there is the chance of a moment's
hearing, are ready to attempt their seductions upon our ears to the prejudice of our pockets.
All these we must pass over with this brief mention upon the present occasion; our business
being with their numerous antitheses and would-be rivals--the incarnate nuisances who fill
the air with discordant and fragmentary mutilations and distortions of heaven-born melody,
to the distraction of educated ears and the perversion of the popular taste.

'Music by handle,' as it has been facetiously termed, forms our present subject. This kind
of harmony, which is not too often deserving of the name, still constitutes, notwithstanding
the large amount of indisputable talent which derives its support from the gratuitous contributions
of the public, by far the larger portion of the peripatetic minstrelsy of the metropolis. It
would appear that these grinders of music, with some few exceptions which we shall notice as
we proceed, are distinguished from their praiseworthy exemplars, the musicians, by one remarkable,
and to them perhaps very comfortable characteristic. Like the exquisite Charles Lamb--if his
curious confession was not a literary myth--they have ears, but no ear, though they would hardly
be brought to acknowledge the fact so candidly as he did. They may be divided, so far as our
observation goes, into the following classes:--1. Hand-organists; 2. Monkey-organists; 3. Handbarrow-organists;
4. Handcart-organists; 5. Horse-and-cart-organists; 6. Blindbird-organists; 7. Piano-grinders;
8. Flageolet-organists and pianists; 9. Hurdy-gurdy players.

1. The hand-organist is most frequently a Frenchman of the departments, nearly always a foreigner.
If his instrument be good for anything, and he have a talent for forming a connection, he will
be found to have his regular rounds, and may be met with any hour in the week at the same spot
he occupied at that hour on the week previous. But a man so circumstanced is at the head of
the vagabond profession, the major part of whom wander at their own sweet will wherever chance
may guide. The hand-organ which they lug about varies in value from L.10 to L.150--at least,
this last-named sum was the cost of a first-rate instrument thirty years ago, such as were
borne about by the street-organists of Bath, Cheltenham, and the fashionable watering-places,
and the grinders of the West End of London at that period, when musical talent was much less
common than it is now. We have seen a contract for repairs to one of these instruments, including
a new stop and new barrels, amounting to the liberal sum of L.75: it belonged to a man who
had grown so impudent in prosperity, as to incur the penalty of seven years' banishment from
the town in which he turned his handle, for the offence of thrashing a young nobleman, who
stood between him and his auditors too near for his sense of dignity. Since the invention of
the metal reed, however, which, under various modifications and combinations, supplies the
sole utterance of the harmonicon, celestina, seraphina, colophon, accordian, concertina, &c.
&c. and which does away with the necessity for pipes, the street hand-organ has assumed a different
and infinitely worse character. Some of them yet remain what the old Puritans called 'boxes
of whistles'--that is, they are all pipes; but many of them might with equal propriety be called
'boxes of Jews-harps,' being all reeds, or rather vibrating metal tongues--and more still are
of a mixed character, having pipes for the upper notes, and metal reeds for the bass. The effect
is a succession of sudden hoarse brays as an accompaniment to a soft melody, suggesting the
idea of a duet between Titania and Bottom. But this is far from the worst of it. The profession
of hand-organist having of late years miserably declined, being in fact at present the next
grade above mendicancy, the element of cheapness has, per force, been studied in the manufacture
of the instrument. The barrels of some are so villainously pricked that the time is altogether
broken, the ear is assailed with a minim in the place of a quaver, and vice versâ--and occasionally,
as a matter of convenience, a bar is left out, or even one is repeated, in utter disregard
of suffering humanity. But what is worse still, these metal reeds, which are the most untunable
things in the whole range of sound-producing material, are constantly, from contact with fog
and moisture, getting out of order; and howl dolorously as they will in token of their ailments,
their half-starved guardian, who will grind half an hour for a penny, cannot afford to medicate
their pains, even if he is aware of them, which, judging from his placid composure during the
most infamous combination of discords, is very much to be questioned.[1]

2. The monkey-organist is generally a native of Switzerland or the Tyrol. He carries a worn-out,
doctored, and flannel-swathed instrument, under the weight of which, being but a youth, or
very rarely an adult, he staggers slowly along, with outstretched back and bended knees. On
the top of his old organ sits a monkey, or sometimes a marmoset, to whose queer face and queerer
tricks, he trusts for compensating the defective quality of his music. He dresses his shivering
brute in a red jacket and a cloth cap; and, when he can, he teaches him to grind the organ,
to the music of which he will himself dance wearily. He wears an everlasting smile upon his
countenance, indicative of humour, natural and not assumed for the occasion: and though he
invariably unites the profession of a beggar with that of monkey-master and musician, he has
evidently no faith in a melancholy face, and does not think it absolutely necessary to make
you thoroughly miserable in order to excite your charity. He will leave his monkey grinding
away on a door-step, and follow you with a grinning face for a hundred yards or more, singing
in a kind of recitative: 'Date qualche cosa, signer! per amor di Dio, eccellenza, date qualche
cosa!' If you comply with his request, his voluble thanks are too rapid for your comprehension;
and if you refuse, he laughs merrily in your face as he turns away to rejoin his friend and
coadjutor. He is a favourite subject with the young artists about town, especially if he is
very good-looking, or, better still, excessively ugly; and he picks up many a shilling for
sitting, standing, or sprawling on the ground, as a model in the studio. It sometimes happens
that he has no organ--his monkey being his only stock in trade. When the monkey dies--and one
sees by their melancholy comicalities, and cautious and painful grimaces, that the poor brutes
are destined to a short time of it--he takes up with white mice, or, lacking these, constructs
a dancing-doll, which, with the aid of a short plank with an upright at one end, to which is
attached a cord passing through the body of the doll, and fastened to his right leg, he keeps
constantly on the jig, to the music of a tuneless tin-whistle, bought for a penny, and a very
primitive parchment tabor, manufactured by himself. These shifts he resorts to in the hope
of retaining his independence and personal freedom--failing to succeed in which, he is driven,
as a last resource, to the comfortless drudgery of piano-grinding, which we shall have to notice
in its turn.

3. The handbarrow-organist is not uncommonly some lazy Irishman, if he be not a sickly Savoyard,
who has mounted his organ upon a handbarrow of light and somewhat peculiar construction, for
the sake of facilitating the task of locomotion. From the nature of his equipage, he is not
given to grinding so perpetually as his heavily-burdened brethren. He cannot of course grind,
as they occasionally do, as he travels along, so he pursues a different system of tactics.
He walks leisurely along the quiet ways, turning his eyes constantly to the right and left,
on the look-out for a promising opening. The sight of a group of children at a parlour-window
brings him into your front garden, where he establishes his instrument with all the deliberation
of a proprietor of the premises. He is pretty sure to begin his performance in the middle of
a tune, with a hiccoughing kind of sound, as though the pipes were gasping for breath. He puts
a sudden period to his questionable harmony the very instant he gets his penny, having a notion,
which is tolerably correct, that you pay him for his silence and not for his sounds. In spite
of his discordant gurglings and squealings, he is welcomed by the nursery-maids and their infant
tribes of little sturdy rogues in petticoats, who flock eagerly round him, and purchase the
luxury of a half-penny grind, which they perform con amore, seated on the top of his machine.
If, when your front garden is thus invaded, you insist upon his decamping without a fee, he
shews his estimate of the peace and quietness you desiderate by his unwillingness to retire,
which, however, he at length consents to do, though not without a muttered remonstrance, delivered
with the air of an injured man. He generally contrives to house himself as night draws on in
some dingy taproom, appertaining to the lowest class of Tom-and-Jerry shops, where, for a few
coppers and 'a few beer,' he will ring all the changes on his instrument twenty times over,
until he and his admiring auditors are ejected at midnight by the police-fearing landlord.

4. The handcart-organists are a race of a very different and more enterprising character, and
of much more lofty and varied pretensions. They generally travel in firms of two, three, or
even four partners, drawing the cart by turns. Their equipage consists of an organ of very
complicated construction, containing, besides a deal of very marvellous machinery within its
entrails, a collection of bells, drums, triangles, gongs, and cymbals, in addition to the usual
quantity of pipes and metal-reeds that go to make up the travelling organ. The music they play
is of a species which it is not very easy to describe, as it is not once in a hundred times
that a stranger can detect the melody through the clash and clangor of the gross amount of
brass, steel, and bell-metal put in vibration by the machinery. This, however, is of very little
consequence, as it is not the music in particular which forms the principal attraction: if
it serve to call a crowd together, that is sufficient for their purpose; and it is for this
reason, we imagine, that the effect of the whole is contrived to resemble, as it very closely
does, the hum and jangle of Greenwich Fair when heard of an Easter Monday from the summit of
the Observatory Hill. No, the main attraction is essentially dramatic. In front of the great
chest of heterogeneous sounds there is a stage about five or six feet in width, four in height,
and perhaps eighteen inches or two feet in depth. Upon this are a variety of figures, about
fourteen inches long, gorgeously arrayed in crimson, purple, emerald-green, blue, and orange
draperies, and loaded with gold and tinsel, and sparkling stones and spangles, all doubled
in splendour by the reflection of a mirror in the background. The figures, set in motion by
the same machinery which grinds the incomprehensible overture, perform a drama equally incomprehensible.
At the left-hand corner is Daniel in the lion's den, the lion opening his mouth in six-eight
time, and an angel with outspread wings, but securely transfixed through the loins by a revolving
brass pivot, shutting it again to the same lively movement. To the right of Daniel is the Grand
Turk, seated in his divan, and brandishing a dagger over a prostrate slave, who only ventures
to rise when the dagger is withdrawn. Next to him is Nebuchadnezzar on all fours, eating painted
grass, with a huge gold crown on his head, which he bobs for a bite every other bar. In the
right-hand corner is a sort of cavern, the abode of some supernatural and mysterious being
of the fiend or vampire school, who gives an occasional fitful start, and turns an ominous-looking
green glass-eye out upon the spectators. All these are in the background. In the front of the
stage stands Napoleon, wearing a long sword and cocked hat, and the conventional gray smalls--his
hand of course stuck in his breast. At his right are Tippoo Saib and his sons, and at his left,
Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. After a score or so of bars, the measure of the music suddenly
alters--Daniel's guardian angel flies off--the prophet and the lion lie down to sleep together--the
Grand Turk sinks into the arms of the death-doomed slave. Nebuchadnezzar falls prostrate on
the ground, and the fiend in the gloomy cavern whips suddenly round and glares with his green
eye, as if watching for a spring upon the front row of actors, who have now taken up their
cue and commenced their performance. Napoleon, Tippoo Saib, and Queen Victoria, dance a three-handed
reel, to the admiration of Prince Albert and a group of lords and ladies in waiting, who nod
their heads approvingly--when br'r'r! crack! bang! at a tremendous crash of gongs and grumbling
of bass-notes, the fiend in the corner rushes forth from his lair with a portentous howl. Away,
neck or nothing, flies Napoleon, and Tippoo scampers after him, followed by the terrified attendants;
but lo! at the precise nick of time, Queen Victoria draws a long sword from beneath her stays,
while up jumps the devouring beast from the den of the prophet, and like a true British lion--as
he doubtless was all the while--flies at the throat of the fiend, straight as an arrow to its
mark. Then follows a roar of applause from the discriminating spectators, amidst which the
curtain falls, and, with an extra flourish of music, the collection of copper coin commences.
This is always a favourite spectacle with the multitude, who never bother themselves about
such trifles as anachronisms and unities; and the only difficulty the managers have to overcome
in order to insure a remunerative exhibition, is that of finding a quiet locality, which shall
yet be sufficiently frequented to insure them an audience. There are equipages of this description
of very various pretensions and perfection, but they all combine the allurements of music and
the drama in a greater or less degree.

5. The horse-and-cart-organists are a race of enterprising speculators, who, relying upon the
popular penchant for music, have undertaken to supply the demand by wholesale. It is impossible
by mere description to impart an adequate idea of the truly appalling and tremendous character
of their performances. Their machines are some of them vast structures, which, mounted upon
stout wheels, and drawn by a couple of serviceable horses, might be mistaken for wild-beast
vans. They are crammed choke-full with every known mechanical contrivance for the production
of ear-stunning noises. Wherever they burst forth into utterance, the whole parish is instantly
admonished of their whereabouts, and, with the natural instinct of John Bull for a row--no
matter how it originates--forth rushes the crowd to enjoy the dissonance. The piercing notes
of a score of shrill fifes, the squall of as many clarions, the hoarse bray of a legion of
tin trumpets, the angry and fitful snort of a brigade of rugged bassoons, the unintermitting
rattle of a dozen or more deafening drums, the clang of bells firing in peals, the boom of
gongs, with the sepulchral roar of some unknown contrivance for bass, so deep that you might
almost count the vibrations of each note--these are a few of the components of the horse-and-cart-organ,
the sum-total of which it is impossible to add up. Compared to the vicinity of a first-rater
in full blow, the inside of a menagerie at feeding-time would be a paradise of tranquillity
and repose. The rattle and rumble of carts and carriages, which drive the professors and possessors
of milder music to the side-streets and suburbs, sink into insignificance when these cataracts
of uproar begin to peal forth; and their owners would have no occasion to seek an appropriate
spot for their volcanic eruptions, were it not that the police, watchful against accident,
have warned them from the principal thoroughfares, where serious consequences have already
ensued through the panic occasioned to horses from the continuous explosion of such unwonted
sounds. In fact, an honourable member of the Commons' House of Parliament made a motion in
the House, towards the close of the last session, for the immediate prohibition of these monster
nuisances, and quoted several cases of alarm and danger to life of which they had been the
originating cause. These formidable erections are for the most part the property and handiwork
of the men who travel with them, and who must levy a pretty heavy contribution on the public
to defray their expenses. They perform entire overtures and long concerted pieces, being furnished
with spiral barrels, and might probably produce a tolerable effect at the distance of a mile
or so--at least we never heard one yet without incontinently wishing it a mile off. By a piece
of particular ill-fortune, we came one day upon one undergoing the ceremony of tuning, on a
piece of waste-ground at the back of Coldbath Prison. The deplorable wail of those tortured
pipes and reeds, and the short savage grunt of the bass mystery, haunted us, a perpetual day-and-night-mare,
for a month. We could not help noticing, however, that the jauntily-dressed fellow, whose fingers
were covered with showy rings, and ears hung with long drops, who performed the operation,
managed it with consummate skill, and with an ear for that sort of music most marvellously
discriminating.

6. Blind bird-organists. Though most blind persons either naturally possess or soon acquire
an ear for music, there are yet numbers who, from the want of it or from some other cause,
never make any proficiency as performers on an instrument. Blindness, too, is often accompanied
with some other disability, which disqualifies its victims for learning such trades as they
might otherwise be taught. Hence many, rather than remain in the workhouse, take to grinding
music in the streets. Here we are struck with one remarkable fact: the Irishman, the Frenchman,
the Italian, or the Savoyard, at least so soon as he is a man, and able to lug it about, is
provided with an instrument with which he can make a noise in the world, and prefer his clamorous
claim for a recompense; while the poor blind Englishman has nothing but a diminutive box of
dilapidated whistles, which you may pass fifty times without hearing it, let him grind as hard
as he will. It is generally nothing more than an old worn-out bird-organ, in all likelihood
charitably bestowed by some compassionate Poll Sweedlepipes, who has already used it up in
the education of his bull-finches. The reason, we opine, must be that the major part, if not
the whole, of the peripatetic instruments of the metropolis are the property of speculators,
who let them out on hire, and that the blind man, not being considered an eligible customer,
is precluded from the advantage of their use. However this may be, the poor blind grinder is
almost invariably found furnished as we have described him, jammed up in some cranny or corner
in a third-rate locality, where, having opened or taken off the top of his box, that the curious
spectator may behold the mystery of his too quiet music--the revolving barrel, the sobbing
bellows, and the twelve leaden and ten wooden pipes--he turns his monotonous handle throughout
the live-long day, in the all but vain appeal for the commiseration of his fellows. This is
really a melancholy spectacle, and one which we would gladly miss altogether in our casual rounds.

