The hours dragged on, and still there was no sign of the pit-mouth being opened. There began
to be secret gatherings of the miners and their wives to complain at the conduct of the company;
and it was natural that Hal's friends who had started the check-weighman movement, should take
the lead in these. They were among the most intelligent of the workers, and saw farther into
the meaning of events. They thought, not merely of the men who were trapped under ground at
this moment, but of thousands of others who would be trapped through years to come. Hal, especially,
was pondering how he could accomplish something definite before he left the camp; for of course
he would have to leave soon--Jeff Cotton would remember him, and carry out his threat to get
rid of him.

Newspapers had come in, with accounts of the disaster, and Hal and his friends read these.
It was evident that the company had been at pains to have the accounts written from its own
point of view. There existed some public sensitiveness on the subject of mine-disasters in
this state. The death-rate from accidents was seen to be mounting steadily; the reports of
the state mine inspector showed six per thousand in one year, eight and a half in the next,
and twenty-one and a half in the next. When fifty or a hundred men were killed in a single
accident, and when such accidents kept happening, one on the heels of another, even the most
callous public could not help asking questions. So in this case the "G. F. C." had been careful
to minimise the loss of life, and to make excuses. The accident had been owing to no fault
of the company's; the mine had been regularly sprinkled, both with water and adobe dust, and
so the cause of the explosion must have been the carelessness of the men in handling powder.

In Jack David's cabin one night there arose a discussion as to the number of men entombed in
the mine. The company's estimate of the number was forty, but Minetti and Olson and David agreed
that this was absurd. Any man who went about in the crowds could satisfy himself that there
were two or three times as many unaccounted for. And this falsification was deliberate, for
the company had a checking system, whereby it knew the name of every man in the mine. But most
of these names were unpronounceable Slavish, and the owners of the names had no friends to
mention them--at least not in any language understood by American newspaper editors.

It was all a part of the system, declared Jack David: its purpose and effect being to enable
the company to go on killing men without paying for them, either in money or in prestige. It
occurred to Hal that it might be worth while to contradict these false statements--almost as
worth while as to save the men who were at this moment entombed. Any one who came forward to
make such a contradiction would of course be giving himself up to the black-list; but then,
Hal regarded himself as a man already condemned to that penalty.

Tom Olson spoke up. "What would you do with your contradiction?"

"Give it to the papers," Hal answered.

"But what papers would print it?"

"There are two rival papers in Pedro, aren't there?"

"One owned by Alf Raymond, the sheriff-emperor, and the other by Vagleman, counsel for the
'G. F. C.' Which one would you try?"

"Well then, the outside papers--those in Western City. There are reporters here now, and some
one of them would surely take it."

Olson answered, declaring that they would not get any but labour and Socialist papers to print
such news. But even that was well worth doing. And Jack David, who was strong for unions and
all their activities, put in, "The thing to do is to take a regular census, so as to know exactly
how many are in the mine."

The suggestion struck fire, and they agreed to set to work that same evening. It would be a
relief to do something, to have something in their minds but despair. They passed the word
to Mary Burke, to Rovetta, Klowoski, and others; and at eleven o'clock the next morning they
met again, and the lists were put together, and it was found that no less than a hundred and
seven men and boys were positively known to be inside Number One.

SECTION 33.

As it happened, however, discussion of this list and the method of giving it to the world was
cut short by a more urgent matter. Jack David came in with news of fresh trouble at the pit-mouth.
The new fan was being put in place; but they were slow about it, so slow that some people had
become convinced that they did not mean to start the fan at all, but were keeping the mine
sealed to prevent the fire from spreading. A group of such malcontents had presumed to go to
Mr. Carmichael, the deputy state mine-inspector, to urge him to take some action; and the leader
of these protestants, Huszar, the Austrian, who had been one of Hal's check-weighman group,
had been taken into custody and marched at double-quick to the gate of the stockade!

Jack David declared furthermore that he knew a carpenter who was working in the fan-house,
and who said that no haste whatever was being made. All the men at the fan-house shared that
opinion; the mine was sealed, and would stay sealed until the company was sure the fire was out.

"But," argued Hal, "if they were to open it, the fire would spread; and wouldn't that prevent
rescue work?"

"Not at all," declared "Big Jack." He explained that by reversing the fan they could draw the
smoke up through the air-course, which would clear the main passages for a time. "But, you
see, some coal might catch fire, and some timbers; there might be falls of rock so they couldn't
work some of the rooms again."

"How long will they keep the mine sealed?" cried Hal, in consternation.

"Nobody can say. In a big mine like that, a fire might smoulder for a week."

"Everybody be dead!" cried Rosa Minetti, wringing her hands in a sudden access of grief.

Hal turned to Olson. "Would they possibly do such a thing?"

"It's been done--more than once," was the organiser's reply.

"Did you never hear about Cherry, Illinois?" asked David. "They did it there, and more than
three hundred people lost their lives." He went on to tell that dreadful story, known to every
coal-miner. They had sealed the mine, while women fainted and men tore their clothes in frenzy--some
going insane. They had kept it sealed for two weeks, and when they opened it, there were twenty-one
men still alive!

"They did the same thing in Diamondville, Wyoming," added Olson. "They built up a barrier,
and when they took it away they found a heap of dead men, who had crawled to it and torn their
fingers to the bone trying to break through."

"My God!" cried Hal, springing to his feet. "And this man Carmichael--would he stand for that?"

"He'd tell you they were doing their best," said "Big Jack." "And maybe he thinks they are.
But you'll see--something'll keep happening; they'll drag on from day to day, and they'll not
start the fan till they're ready."

"Why, it's murder!" cried Hal.

"It's business," said Tom Olson, quietly.

Hal looked from one to another of the faces of these working people. Not one but had friends
in that trap; not one but might be in the same trap to-morrow!

"You have to stand it!" he exclaimed, half to himself.

"Don't you see the guards at the pit-mouth?" answered David. "Don't you see the guns sticking
out of their pockets?"

"They bring in more guards this morning," put in Jerry Minetti. "Rosa, she see them get off."

"They know what they doin'!" said Rosa. "They only fraid we find it out! They told Mrs. Zamboni
she keep away or they send her out of camp. And old Mrs. Jonotch--her husband and three sons
inside!"

"They're getting rougher and rougher," declared Mrs. David. "That big fellow they call Pete,
that came up from Pedro--the way he's handling the women is a shame!"

"I know him," put in Olson; "Pete Hanun. They had him in Sheridan when the union first opened
headquarters. He smashed one of our organisers in the mouth and broke four of his teeth. They
say he has a jail-record."

All through the previous year at college Hal had listened to lectures upon political economy,
filled with the praises of a thing called "Private Ownership." This Private Ownership developed
initiative and economy; it kept the wheels of industry a-roll, it kept fat the pay-rolls of
college faculties; it accorded itself with the sacred laws of supply and demand, it was the
basis of the progress and prosperity wherewith America had been blessed. And here suddenly
Hal found himself face to face with the reality of it; he saw its wolfish eyes glaring into
his own, he felt its smoking hot breath in his face, he saw its gleaming fangs and claw-like
fingers, dripping with the blood of men and women and children. Private Ownership of coal-mines!
Private Ownership of sealed-up entrances and non-existent escape-ways! Private Ownership of
fans which did not start, of sprinklers which did not sprinkle. Private Ownership of clubs
and revolvers, and of thugs and ex-convicts to use them, driving away rescuers and shutting
up agonised widows and orphans in their homes! Oh, the serene and well-fed priests of Private
Ownership, chanting in academic halls the praises of the bloody Demon!

Suddenly Hal stopped still. Something had risen in him, the existence of which he had never
suspected. There was a new look upon his face, his voice was deep as a strong man's when he
spoke: "I am going to make them open that mine!"

They looked at him. They were all of them close to the border of hysteria, but they caught
the strange note in his utterance. "I am going to make them open that mine!"

"How?" asked Olson.

"The public doesn't know about this thing. If the story got out, there'd be such a clamour,
it couldn't go on!"

"But how will you get it out?"

"I'll give it to the newspapers! They can't suppress such a thing--I don't care how prejudiced
they are!"

"But do you think they'd believe what a miner's buddy tells them?" asked Mrs. David.

"I'll find a way to make them believe me," said Hal. "I'm going to make them open that mine!"

SECTION 34.

In the course of his wanderings about the camp, Hal had observed several wide-awake looking
young men with notebooks in their hands. He could see that these young men were being made
guests of the company, chatting with the bosses upon friendly terms; nevertheless, he believed
that among them he might find one who had a conscience--or at any rate who would yield to the
temptation of a "scoop." So, leaving the gathering at Mrs. David's, Hal went to the pit-mouth,
watching out for one of these reporters; when he found him, he followed him for a while, desiring
to get him where no company "spotter" might interfere. At the first chance, he stepped up,
and politely asked the reporter to come into a side street, where they might converse undisturbed.

The reporter obeyed the request; and Hal, concealing the intensity of his feelings, so as not
to repel the other, let it be known that he had worked in North Valley for some months, and
could tell much about conditions in the camp. There was the matter of adobe-dust, for example.
Explosions in dry mines could be prevented by spraying the walls with this material. Did the
reporter happen to know that the company's claim to have used it was entirely false?

No, the reporter answered, he did not know this. He seemed interested, and asked Hal's name
and occupation. Hal told him "Joe Smith," a "buddy," who had recently been chosen as check-weighman.
The reporter, a lean and keen-faced young man, asked many questions--intelligent questions;
incidentally he mentioned that he was the local correspondent of the great press association
whose stories of the disaster were sent to every corner of the country. This seemed to Hal
an extraordinary piece of good fortune, and he proceeded to tell this Mr. Graham about the
census which some of the workers had taken; they were able to give the names of a hundred and
seven men and boys who were inside the mine. The list was at Mr. Graham's disposal if he cared
to see it. Mr. Graham seemed more interested than ever, and made notes in his book.

Another thing, more important yet, Hal continued; the matter of the delay in getting the fan
started. It had been three days since the explosion, but there had been no attempt at entering
the mine. Had Mr. Graham seen the disturbance at the pit-mouth that morning? Did he realise
that a man had been thrown out of camp merely because he had appealed to the deputy state mine-inspector?
Hal told what so many had come to believe--that the company was saving property at the expense
of life. He went on to point out the human meaning of this--he told about old Mrs. Rafferty,
with her failing health and her eight children; about Mrs. Zamboni, with eleven children; about
Mrs. Jonotch, with a husband and three sons in the mine. Led on by the reporter's interest,
Hal began to show some of his feeling. These were human beings, not animals; they loved and
suffered, even though they were poor and humble!

"Most certainly!" said Mr. Graham. "You're right, and you may rest assured I'll look into this."

"There's one thing more," said Hal. "If my name is mentioned, I'll be fired, you know."

"I won't mention it," said the other.

"Of course, if you can't publish the story without giving its source--"

"I'm the source," said the reporter, with a smile. "Your name would not add anything."

He spoke with quiet assurance; he seemed to know so completely both the situation and his own
duty in regard to it, that Hal felt a thrill of triumph. It was as if a strong wind had come
blowing from the outside world, dispelling the miasma which hung over this coal-camp. Yes,
this reporter was the outside world! He was the power of public opinion, making itself felt
in this place of knavery and fear! He was the voice of truth, the courage and rectitude of
a great organisation of publicity, independent of secret influences, lifted above corruption!

"I'm indebted to you," said Mr. Graham, at the end, and Hal's sense of victory was complete.
What an extraordinary chance--that he should have run into the agent of the great press association!
The story would go out to the great world of industry, which depended upon coal as its life-blood.
The men in the factories, the wheels of which were turned by coal--the travellers on trains
which were moved by coal--they would hear at last of the sufferings of those who toiled in
the bowels of the earth for them! Even the ladies, reclining upon the decks of palatial steamships
in gleaming tropic seas--so marvellous was the power of modern news-spreading agencies, that
these ladies too might hear the cry for help of these toilers, and of their wives and little
ones! And from this great world would come an answer, a universal shout of horror, of execration,
that would force even old Peter Harrigan to give way! So Hal mused--for he was young, and this
was his first crusade.

He was so happy that he was able to think of himself again, and to realise that he had not
eaten that day. It was noon-time, and he went into Reminitsky's, and was about half through
with the first course of Reminitsky's two-course banquet, when his cruel disillusioning fell
upon him!

He looked up and saw Jeff Cotton striding into the dining-room, making straight for him. There
was blood in the marshal's eye, and Hal saw it, and rose, instinctively.

"Come!" said Cotton, and took him by the coat-sleeve and marched him out, almost before the
rest of the diners had time to catch their breath.

Hal had no opportunity now to display his "tea-party manners" to the camp-marshal. As they
walked, Cotton expressed his opinion of him, that he was a skunk, a puppy, a person of undesirable
ancestry; and when Hal endeavoured to ask a question--which he did quite genuinely, not grasping
at once the meaning of what was happening--the marshal bade him "shut his face," and emphasised
the command by a twist at his coat-collar. At the same time two of the huskiest mine-guards,
who had been waiting at the dining-room door, took him, one by each arm, and assisted his progress.

They went down the street and past Jeff Cotton's office, not stopping this time. Their destination
was the railroad-station, and when Hal got there, he saw a train standing. The three men marched
him to it, not releasing him till they had jammed him down into a seat.

"Now, young fellow," said Cotton, "we'll see who's running this camp!"

By this time Hal had regained a part of his self-possession. "Do I need a ticket?" he asked.

"I'll see to that," said the marshal.

"And do I get my things?"

"You save some questions for your college professors," snapped the marshal.

So Hal waited; and a minute or two later a man arrived on the run with his scanty belongings,
rolled into a bundle and tied with a piece of twine. Hal noted that this man was big and ugly,
and was addressed by the camp-marshal as "Pete."

The conductor shouted, "All aboard!" And at the same time Jeff Cotton leaned over towards Hal
and spoke in a menacing whisper: "Take this from me, young fellow; don't stop in Pedro, move
on in a hurry, or something will happen to you on a dark night."

After which he strode down the aisle, and jumped off the moving train. But Hal noticed that
Pete Hanun, the breaker of teeth, stayed on the car a few seats behind him.

BOOK THREE

THE HENCHMEN OF KING COAL

SECTION 1.

It was Hal's intention to get to Western City as quickly as possible to call upon the newspaper
editors. But first he must have money to travel, and the best way he could think of to get
it was to find John Edstrom. He left the train, followed by Pete Hanun; after some inquiry,
he came upon the undertaker who had buried Edstrom's wife, and who told him where the old Swede
was staying, in the home of a labouring-man nearby.

Edstrom greeted him with eager questions: Who had been killed? What was the situation? Hal
told in brief sentences what had happened. When he mentioned his need of money, Edstrom answered
that he had a little, and would lend it, but it was not enough for a ticket to Western City.
Hal asked about the twenty-five dollars which Mary Burke had sent by registered mail; the old
man had heard nothing about it, he had not been to the post-office. "Let's go now!" said Hal,
at once; but as they were starting downstairs, a fresh difficulty occurred to him. Pete Hanun
was on the street outside, and it was likely that he had heard about this money from Jeff Cotton;
he might hold Edstrom up and take it away.

"Let me suggest something," put in the old man. "Come and see my friend Ed MacKellar. He may
be able to give us some advice--even to think of some way to get the mine open." Edstrom explained
that MacKellar, an old Scotchman, had been a miner, but was now crippled, and held some petty
office in Pedro. He was a persistent opponent of "Alf" Raymond's machine, and they had almost
killed him on one occasion. His home was not far away, and it would take little time to consult
him.

"All right," said Hal, and they set out at once. Pete Hanun followed them, not more than a
dozen yards behind, but did not interfere, and they turned in at the gate of a little cottage.
A woman opened the door for them, and asked them into the dining-room where MacKellar was sitting--a
grey-haired old man, twisted up with rheumatism and obliged to go about on crutches.

Hal told his story. As the Scotchman had been brought up in the mines, it was not necessary
to go into details about the situation. When Hal told his idea of appealing to the newspapers,
the other responded at once, "You won't have to go to Western City. There's a man right here
who'll do the business for you; Keating, of the Gazette."

"The Western City Gazette?" exclaimed Hal. He knew this paper; an evening journal selling for
a cent, and read by working-men. Persons of culture who referred to it disposed of it with
the adjective "yellow."

"I know," said MacKellar, noting Hal's tone. "But it's the only paper that will publish your
story anyway."

"Where is this Keating?"

"He's been up at the mine. It's too bad you didn't meet him."

"Can we get hold of him now?"

"He might be in Pedro. Try the American Hotel."

Hal went to the telephone, and in a minute was hearing for the first time the cheery voice
of his friend and lieutenant-to-be, "Billy" Keating. In a couple of minutes more the owner
of the voice was at MacKellar's door, wiping the perspiration from his half-bald forehead.
He was round-faced, like a full moon, and as jolly as Falstaff; when you got to know him better,
you discovered that he was loyal as a Newfoundland dog. For all his bulk, Keating was a newspaper
man, every inch of him "on the job."

He started to question the young miner as soon as he was introduced, and it quickly became
clear to Hal that here was the man he was looking for. Keating knew exactly what questions
to ask, and had the whole story in a few minutes. "By thunder!" he cried. "My last edition!"
And he pulled out his watch, and sprang to the telephone. "Long distance," he called; then,
"I want the city editor of the Western City Gazette. And, operator, please see if you can't
rush it through. It's very urgent, and last time I had to wait nearly half an hour."

He turned back to Hal, and proceeded to ask more questions, at the same time pulling a bunch
of copy-paper from his pocket and making notes. He got all Hal's statements about the lack
of sprinkling, the absence of escape-ways, the delay in starting the fan, the concealing of
the number of men in the mine. "I knew things were crooked up there!" he exclaimed. "But I
couldn't get a lead! They kept a man with me every minute of the time. You know a fellow named
Predovich?"

"I do," said Hal. "The company store-clerk; he once went through my pockets."

Keating made a face of disgust. "Well, he was my chaperon. Imagine trying to get the miners
to talk to you with that sneak at your heels! I said to the superintendent, 'I don't need anybody
to escort me around your place.' And he looked at me with a nasty little smile. 'We wouldn't
want anything to happen to you while you're in this camp, Mr. Keating.' 'You don't consider
it necessary to protect the lives of the other reporters,' I said. 'No,' said he; 'but the
Gazette has made a great many enemies, you know.' 'Drop your fooling, Mr. Cartwright,' I said.
'You propose to have me shadowed while I'm working on this assignment?' 'You can put it that
way,' he answered, 'if you think it'll please the readers of the Gazette.'"

"Too bad we didn't meet!" said Hal. "Or if you'd run into any of our check-weighman crowd!"

"Oh! You know about that check-weighman business!" exclaimed the reporter. "I got a hint of
it--that's how I happened to be down here to-day. I heard there was a man named Edstrom, who'd
been shut out for making trouble; and I thought if I could find him, I might get a lead."

Hal and MacKellar looked at the old Swede, and the three of them began to laugh. "Here's your
man!" said MacKellar.

"And here's your check-weighman!" added Edstrom, pointing to Hal.

Instantly the reporter was on his job again; he began to fire another series of questions.
He would use that check-weighman story as a "follow-up" for the next day, to keep the subject
of North Valley alive. The story had a direct bearing on the disaster, because it showed what
the North Valley bosses were doing when they should have been looking after the safety of their
mine. "I'll write it out this afternoon and send it by mail," said Keating; he added, with
a smile, "That's one advantage of handling news the other papers won't touch--you don't have
to worry about losing your 'scoops'!"

SECTION 2.

Keating went to the telephone again, to worry "long distance"; then, grumbling about his last
edition, he came back to ask more questions about Hal's experiences. Before long he drew out
the story of the young man's first effort in the publicity game; at which he sank back in his
chair, and laughed until he shook, as the nursery-rhyme describes it, "like a bowlful of jelly."

"Graham!" he exclaimed. "Fancy, MacKellar, he took that story to Graham!"

The Scotchman seemed to find it equally funny; together they explained that Graham was the
political reporter of the Eagle, the paper in Pedro which was owned by the Sheriff-emperor.
One might call him Alf Raymond's journalistic jackal; there was no job too dirty for him.

"But," cried Hal, "he told me he was correspondent for the Western press association!"

"He's that, too," replied Billy.

"But does the press association employ spies for the 'G. F. C.'?"

The reporter answered, drily, "When you understand the news game better, you'll realise that
the one thing the press association cares about in a correspondent is that he should have respect
for property. If respect for property is the back-bone of his being, he can learn what news
is, and the right way to handle it."

Keating turned to the Scotchman. "Do you happen to have a typewriter in the house, Mr. MacKellar?"

"An old one," said the other--"lame, like myself."

"I'll make out with it. I'd ask this young man over to my hotel, but I think he'd better keep
off the streets as much as possible."

"You're right. If you take my advice, you'll take the typewriter upstairs, where there's no
chance of a shot through the window."

"Great heavens!" exclaimed Hal. "Is this America, or mediaeval Italy?"

"It's the Empire of Raymond," replied MacKellar. "They shot my friend Tom Burton dead while
he stood on the steps of his home. He was opposing the machine, and had evidence about ballot-frauds
he was going to put before the Grand Jury."

While Keating continued to fret with "long distance," the old Scotchman went on trying to impress
upon Hal the danger of his position. Quite recently an organiser of the miners' union had been
beaten up in broad day-light and left insensible on the sidewalk; MacKellar had watched the
trial and acquittal of the two thugs who had committed this crime--the foreman of the jury
being a saloon-keeper one of Raymond's heelers, and the other jurymen being Mexicans, unable
to comprehend a word of the court proceedings.

"Exactly such a jury as Jeff Cotton promised me!" remarked Hal, with a feeble attempt at a smile.

"Yes," answered the other; "and don't make any mistake about it, if they want to put you away,
they can do it. They run the whole machine here. I know how it is, for I had a political job
myself, until they found they couldn't use me."

The old Scotchman went on to explain that he had been elected justice of peace, and had tried
to break up the business of policemen taking money from the women of the town; he had been
forced to resign, and his enemies had made his life a torment. Recently he had been candidate
for district judge on the Progressive ticket, and told of his efforts to carry on a campaign
in the coal-camps--how his circulars had been confiscated, his posters torn down, his supporters
"kangarooed." It was exactly as Alec Stone, the pit-boss, had explained to Hal. In some of
the camps the meeting-halls belonged to the company; in others they belonged to saloon-keepers
whose credit depended upon Alf Raymond. In the few places where there were halls that could
be hired, the machine had gone to the extreme of sending in rival entertainments, furnishing
free music and free beer in order to keep the crowds away from MacKellar.

All this time Billy Keating had been chafing and scolding at "long distance." Now at last he
managed to get his call, and silence fell in the room. "Hello, Pringle, that you? This is Keating.
Got a big story on the North Valley disaster. Last edition put to bed yet? Put Jim on the wire.
Hello, Jim! Got your book?" And then Billy, evidently talking to a stenographer, began to tell
the story he had got from Hal. Now and then he would stop to repeat or spell a word; once or
twice Hal corrected him on details. So, in about a quarter of an hour, they put the job through;
and Keating turned to Hal.

"There you are, son," said he. "Your story'll be on the street in Western City in a little
over an hour; it'll be down here as soon thereafter as they can get telephone connections.
And take my advice, if you want to keep a whole skin, you'll be out of Pedro when that happens!"

SECTION 3.

When Hal spoke, he did not answer Billy Keating's last remark. He had been listening to a retelling
of the North Valley disaster over the telephone; so he was not thinking about his skin, but
about a hundred and seven men and boys buried inside a mine.

"Mr. Keating," said he, "are you sure the Gazette will print that story?"

"Good Lord!" exclaimed the other. "What am I here for?"

"Well, I've been disappointed once, you know."

"Yes, but you got into the wrong camp. We're a poor man's paper, and this is what we live on."

"There's no chance of its being 'toned down'?"

"Not the slightest, I assure you."

"There's no chance of Peter Harrigan's suppressing it?"

"Peter Harrigan made his attempts on the Gazette long ago, my boy."

"Well," said Hal, "and now tell me this--will it do the work?"

"In what way?"

"I mean--in making them open the mine."

Keating considered for a moment. "I'm afraid it won't do much."

Hal looked at him blankly. He had taken it for granted the publication of the facts would force
the company to move. But Keating explained that the Gazette read mainly by working-people,
and so had comparatively little influence. "We're an afternoon paper," he said; "and when people
have been reading lies all morning, it's not easy to make them believe the truth in the afternoon."

"But won't the story go to other papers--over the country, I mean?"

"Yes, we have a press service; but the papers are all like the Gazette--poor man's papers.
If there's something very raw, and we keep pounding away for a long time, we can make an impression;
at least we limit the amount of news the Western press association can suppress. But when it
comes to a small matter like sealing up workingmen in a mine, all we can do is to worry the
'G. F. C.' a little."

So Hal was just where he had begun! "I must find some other plan," he exclaimed.

"I don't see what you can do," replied the other.

There was a pause, while the young miner pondered. "I had thought of going up to Western City
and appealing to the editors," he said, a little uncertainly.

"Well, I can tell you about that--you might as well save your car-fare. They wouldn't touch
your story."

"And if I appealed to the Governor?"

"In the first place, he probably wouldn't see you. And if he did, he wouldn't do anything.
He's not really the Governor, you know; he's a puppet put up there to fool you. He only moves
when Harrigan pulls a string."

"Of course I knew he was Old Peter's man," said Hal. "But then"--and he concluded, somewhat
lamely, "What can I do?"

