During that day she hardly saw Gaga at all. He was at home with his mother, and did not come
to business until the afternoon. Only in the evening did she creep into his room and submit
to his endearments. She then left, and went to the hotel at which for the present they were
to stay; and here, in the little sitting-room attached to their bedroom, she was for the first
time able to be alone for half-an-hour with her post-nuptial reflections. They were not all
pleasant, and they called for the exercise of her natural resoluteness. She had comfort, and
the knowledge that she need never again trouble about food and clothing. But she also knew
that a husband is a different sort of person from a lover. He seemed to her to be a sort of
omnipresent nuisance. Her trouble was that thoughts and ambitions were in conflict with Gaga's
amorousness. He could never understand her. He could understand her no better than Toby, and
as she had no use for him otherwise than as the instrument of her ambition, she was already,
within two days of marriage, bored with him. Sally awaited Gaga's arrival with calm unwillingness.
She did not realise how rapid would be her instinctive progress to repugnance; but she had
no illusions about her marriage.

At last Gaga arrived, his own eagerness unabated, but he was still shaken by the fact that
his mother was seriously ill. With Sally in his arms he whispered or murmured alternately professions
of love and anxiety. She was all the time secretly astonished at his devotion to Madam, because
it corresponded to nothing in her own nature; but she comforted Gaga because it was her impulse
to do so. She did not dislike him in this mood. She felt pity for him. It was only for his
tremulous persistency in caress that Sally felt contempt. Gradually she began to be able to
divert his mind to other matters--to their own future, and the flat they were to take and to
furnish; and to the plans they must make for a slow change of her position in the business.
Already Sally was obtaining a grasp of the details, but she could go little further until her
access to the books and accounts was free. She could do nothing until some scheme had been
made. So the two sat together after dinner and discussed what they were to do, and where they
were to live, and how the rooms of the flat were to be furnished. It was all, upon Sally's
side, practical and clear; and for Gaga a wonderful revelation of Sally's wisdom. He became
more and more infatuated, as Sally became more and more cool. And they talked the whole evening
through, without realising that with each moment Sally's dominion was more firmly established.

It was only towards the end of the evening that Gaga, unhinged by excitement, became desperately
pale, and confessed to a headache. He found his customary drugs, and took them. But to Sally
this headache was a new and emphatic indication of Gaga's troublesome temperament. Ugliness
and squalor she knew; but sickliness was new to her. In face of a groaning and prostrate man,
she turned away. Her heart sank a little. Then, with a shrug, she turned to the advertisements
of flats to let in London which she found in various newspapers; and made notes of the addresses
of house agents. This occupation she continued until Gaga called almost fretfully from the
next room, when she turned off the electric light and joined him. An hour later, while Gaga
still lay staring into the darkness, Sally was fast asleep. She had no dreams. For the present
she was occupied with facts alone; and she did not suspect that she was unhappy, because she
had been absorbing too many details to be able to reflect upon the sinking of her heart and
its meaning.

v

The next evening Sally went to see her mother. Her first object was to get Mrs. Minto away
from the room in which they had lived; because it was essential that if Toby came back, as
she believed he could not do for some days, he should be unable to trace Sally or her mother.
It was for fear of Toby that the removal was to be made. Once get Mrs. Minto away, to some
other part of North London, and Toby might seek news of Sally in vain. Only if he came and
waited outside Madam's would he be able to find her; and in that case she could still baulk
him, as she was going to stay late every evening for the future in order to work with Gaga.
But first of all, Sally must arrange to get her mother out of the old house. She would not
want to go. She must go. She would pretend that she could keep herself. She would show the
stubborn pride of many old people of the working class, who will work until they kill themselves
rather than accept charitable doles. Very well, Sally knew that Mrs. Minto could not keep herself;
and she knew also that these same old people have no similar delicacy in taking from their
children's earnings. She was going to explain that she was still working, and that what Mrs.
Minto would receive came from Sally herself, and not from Sally's husband. And she would herself
find a room for her mother in Stoke Newington, a suburb which is farther from Holloway than
many more distant places for the reason that no dweller in Holloway has any curiosity about
Stoke Newington or any impulse to go there as an adventure.

Sally found Mrs. Minto in a familiar attitude, stooping over a very small fire; but as she
ran up the stairs very softly, with a nervous dread of Toby, she had no conception of the welcome
which awaited her. She opened the door and went into the dingy room, and stood smiling; and
to her great surprise she saw her mother rise almost wildly and come towards her. Two thin
arms pressed and fondled her, and a thin old cheek was pressed hard against her own. To herself
Mrs. Minto was ejaculating in a shivering way: "My baby, my baby!" Only then did Sally understand
how much the separation had meant to her mother. She herself had never once thought of that
lonely figure at home.

"Poor old thing!" Sally found herself saying. "Was she lonely then?" She patted her mother's
bony shoulders, and hugged her, affected by this involuntary betrayal of love. Mrs. Minto had
never been demonstrative. "I wish I'd brought you something, now. A present. I never thought
of it."

"Is it all right? Are you happy, my dearie?" demanded Mrs. Minto, with a searching glance.

"I knew what I was doing, ma," proclaimed Sally. "There's not much I don't know."

It was an evasion; a confession of something quite other than the happiness about which she
had been asked.

"Ah, that's what I was afraid of...." breathed her mother. "That's what young people always
think. You don't know nothing at all, Sally."

"I know more'n you do!" It was a defiance.

"You think you do. Why, you're only a baby...." Mrs. Minto shook her head several times, with
lugubrious effect. But her last words had been full of a smothered affection, more truly precious
than a hundred of Gaga's kisses or a dozen of Toby's animal hugs.

"In your days I should have been." Sally withdrew herself, and led her mother back to her chair.
"Not know! Why, the girls know a lot more now than they used to when you was a girl. No more
timid little creatures."

"They only think they know more," declared Mrs. Minto, trembling. "And it takes 'em longer
to find out they don't know nothing at all. It takes a lot of time to get to know. You're in
too much of a hurry, my gel. You don't know nothing. Nothing whatever, for all your talk of
it. I been thinking about it all these days--frantic, I've been."

"All these years!" jeered Sally. "Look here, ma.... Here's my marriage license!" And as she
spoke she waved the folded paper before her mother's eyes in such a way that it fell open and
showed the official entries. Even as she did this so lightly, Sally was able to catch the sharply
hidden expression of relief which crossed Mrs. Minto's face at the reassurance. She made no
pretence of misunderstanding. "Say I don't know anything?" she demanded. "Think I don't know
enough for that? Silly old fool? What did I tell you? There's about twenty million things I
know that you don't know. And never will know, what's more. Wake up! I tell you one thing,
ma. The people who don't know think a lot worse than the people who do. They fancy more. See?
It's a little way they got. All goes on inside their heads, and shakes about. People like me
haven't got time to think a lot of muck. We do things ... and do them thorough."

Mrs. Minto, reproved, sank into contemplation.

"Well, I don't know, Sally," she went on, after a pause. "You talk a lot. I'd rather think
than talk. You say he's rich. Sometimes girls get left."

"Not me, though," Sally assured her. "Soppy ones do. I'm not soppy. And I'll tell you what.
I'm going to get you out of this place."

"I ain't going to live with you and him!" declared Mrs. Minto in alarm. "I wouldn't!"

"No. You're going to live somewhere else. I want you to get away from here. You're going to
have two decent rooms ... in Stoke Newington. Real paper on the walls, and a carpet, and new
mattress that isn't like two horse troughs."

"I won't take nothing from him."

"No. From me. Out of my wages."

"You ain't going to have.... Don't be silly. I'm well off where I am."

"I'm going to keep on at Madam's. I'm going to have plenty money. And you're going to move.
Got it? I'll see about it to-morrow night, get you in Thursday or Friday. Won't take an hour
to settle you in. Then you'll be comfortable."

"I'm very well as I am," said Mrs. Minto, obstinately. "I can keep myself. I'm not going to
sponge on you. Not likely."

"You'll move Thursday or Friday, I tell you."

It was final. The poor thin little old woman had no fight in her. She looked up at Sally, and
her face was the anxious face of a monkey, or of a sick beast that is being tended. Now that
she had been comforted about Sally she had nothing left to say. She made a last feeble effort.

"I don't want to move. Mrs. Roberson...."

"Fiddlesticks!"

"My 'ead!"

"Your head'll get better if you keep quiet and have real coal and a bath or two." Sally was
imperious, and enjoyingly so. Her spirits had risen. She was a general. She looked down protectingly
at her mother, and a ghost of ancient love rose breathing in her heart. "Silly old thing!"
she murmured, with a touch of softness; and knelt suddenly. "Got to look after you a bit,"
she added. "It's you who's the baby now. What a lot of kids people are! Makes me feel a hundred--and
over--when I see what fools they are. I'm sorry for you, and that's the truth. You and Miss
Summers and Gaga."

"Who's Gaga?"

"He's Mr. Sally Minto," said Sally with mystic insolence. "That's who Gaga is. He calls himself
my husband, but he's no more my husband than you are, ma. And never will be. But oh, Lor! He's
going to be the worry of my life! Ma, did Pa chase you all over the place when you was married?
I mean, chase you all about trying to kiss you and fuss you?"

"No, dear," said Mrs. Minto. "He was drunk. He didn't know what he was doing."

"Hn," Sally grunted. Then she stood up again. "I'm going now," she announced. "I'm going back
to Gaga. He's ill. I expect he's being sick."

And before her mother could make startled enquiries, Sally had kissed her and gone to the door.
She ran in high spirits down the stairs and out of the front door not laughing, but in a curious
way moved by this conversation and the strange turn which it had taken. She slammed the door
after her, and met with a sudden squall of wind. And as she went away from the house she was
conscious of a feeling of relief. She had escaped from it, and her heart was beating rather
fast. All the time, under her speech and her thoughts, she had unconsciously been listening
for Toby's step upon the stair. Even now, she knew that her shoulders were contracted with
apprehensiveness.

She hurried along in the direction of Holloway Road, still flinching, with her nerves uncommonly
strained. It was such an odd feeling that she had in thus revisiting her ugly old home. She
had noticed it all afresh--the tired linoleum, and the oil stove and the tiny fire made from
coal blocks, and the stupid old bed and the browned wallpaper--and she felt that it all belonged
to a time when she had been a different girl altogether. She had never before been away from
home, without her mother, for so long. She had never once been away from this room for a night,
until her marriage. And to come thus into the dark street, in a wind, with the door slamming
behind her, took Sally's memories uncontrollably back to the days which followed their first
arrival, the days when she had met Toby and talked to him and walked with him about the streets.
She recalled her visit to Mrs. Perce, and the sight of that grim figure relentlessly waiting
for her outside the Stores; and the struggle with Toby, and her resultant happiness; and the
night when he had first come to the room while her mother lay in the hospital. Heigho! She
had been young in those days; now she felt an old woman, with all the sense of ageless age
which the young feel after a transition from one kind of life to another. She was in a sense
disillusioned. She had taken her step, and cut the link that bound her to this neighbourhood
and the starveling room. She had cut the link that bound her to Toby. And he was now swiftly
back in her consciousness, in her heart; so that she knew she would never forget him because
he was the first man she had loved, and thus forever her idea of a lover. So strong was her
emotion that she felt a strange little dryness in her throat and her burning eyes, and fancied
she heard his voice. It was as though two years had been taken away, as though she once again--as
she done two years ago--longed and feared to meet Toby.

As Sally, with her head bent and her thoughts active, pressed onward, she heard the clanging
bell of a passing tramcar, and saw its brilliant lights rush by along the Holloway Road. A
cart rattled on the rough stones of the road, and the wind blew the leaves of the bushes in
the gardens she passed. And as she shivered a little at the wind's onset she again imagined
that she heard Toby's voice, and inevitably turned in the direction from which the sound had
appeared to reach her. Everything was quite dark; but there was a blackness just behind her
that was like the figure of a man. It took shape; it came nearer and nearer. Sally's heart
stopped beating, and she shrank back against the railing of one of the houses. She felt a deadly
sickness upon her, a dreadful horror.

"Sally!"

It was Toby. He was abreast, inescapable. He loomed over her like a figure of vengeance. Her
heart was like water. She was hysterically afraid.

vi

"Hallo, Sally!" Toby was by her side, and his arms round her, and his kisses on her cheek.
"Why, aren't you going to kiss me?"

Sally's eyes opened wide at his tone of innocent surprise. She suffered him to kiss her lips.
Toby had not received her letter! He was on leave, and.... She gasped. An indescribable relief
caused her to rest limply and unprotestingly in his arms. Once again they were engulfed in
merciful darkness, hidden from each other and from anybody who might happen to pass. She could
not think at all; but she was thankful at this reprieve. Not yet would he kill her. And as
they stood embraced she was suddenly happy, with a passion that astonished her. Toby-- Toby,
her love; and she herself in his arms again, as she had never thought to be. A strange laugh,
low and tender, came from her lips. Her cheek was gently rubbed against his, and her body quite
relaxed. Every one of Sally's difficulties suffered an oblivion; they were all dispersed in
the extraordinary mist of sensation which enwrapped her.

"I was surprised," she murmured, kissing him with all her heart. "Didn't expect to see you.
Funny to see you ... so funny ... and when I was thinking of you. I must have known you were
coming."

"I just got in," Toby said. "I say, where you going, Sal?"

Sally flinched again. Immediately she was conscious of terror.

"Stoke Newington," she cried; in a flash. What was she to do? What was she to do? She was desperate.
Fear was strong; but love was stronger. It was not only now that she did not dare to tell him
the truth in case he killed her; much more than that was her understanding of the fact that
she could not bear to lose him. Such gust of thankfulness had shaken Sally when she knew that
Toby had not received her letter that she was brimming now with joy. It was impossible to lose
her rapture at the moment of its full glory. She could not tell him.

"Stoke Newington? Whatever for? Here, wait till I've had some grub.... No, I'll come with you
now. Get some grub later. Have you got to go there now?"

"You musn't come, Toby."

"Why not?" He was instantly suspicious. His grip tightened, and he forced her to look at him.

"Didn't you get my letter?"

"When? Now? I've had no letter. What you going to Stoke Newington for? No, I want to know.
You going to meet another chap? I believe you are, you little devil! By Christ! If you....
I will come!" Toby was now fiercely suspicious. She could tell from his ferocious grip, and
the urgency of his tone. "If you're playing that game, I'll kill you. By Christ, I will!"

"I'm not. I'm not," cried Sally. "You're hurting me, Toby!"

"You swear it?" He relaxed his hold, which was strangling her. In the darkness he again strove
to see her expression and judge for himself of her honesty.

"I'm not going to see anybody. I swear I'm not."

"Why did you ask if I'd had your letter? What you bin writing to me?"

"Oo, a lot of lies...." breathed Sally. "Silly talk and rubbish. That's all it was."

"What about?" He was still intense. Sally could hardly breathe, and her courage was fading.
They were so much in the darkness that they could not be seen, and she was entirely dominated
by Toby's physical strength. Within his grasp she was helpless, and not all her dartingly-imagined
expedients would be enough to secure her escape. Hastily she improvised a story.

"Well, I'm not living with ma any longer. I gone out to live in," she lied.

"Stoke Newington?"

"No."

"Lost your job?"

"No."

He was baffled! but he knew that something was amiss. Sally could feel him drawing deep breaths.
In the shadow she could imagine that his jaw was firmly set. It was strange to feel so happy
in his arms, so afraid of death, so frustrated in the composition of any tale by which she
could free herself and thus gain time to make some fresh plan. Sally had never been in a comparable
quandary.

"Where you living?" he next demanded.

"Don't be rough. You're hurting. Well, I'm living. I forget the address. Only went there last
night. I'm with a friend."

"What sort of a friend? A girl? What's her name?"

"Miss Summers."

Toby considered. He had heard that name, Sally knew, and must remember it. She felt that at
last she had stumbled upon something which would seem to him probable enough to allay immediate
suspicion.

"She's your forewoman or something, isn't she?" he demanded.

"Yes. She's very kind. She's ever so nice." Sally prayed that he might believe her. There was
a long pause of doubt, during which hysteria, rising, nearly provoked a frantic struggle for
freedom and flight. But she remembered a former occasion, and her knees were weak at the foreknowledge
of failure. He would not be merciful. She feared him and adored him.

"Well," Toby said at last, in a grumble; "when do I see you? Eh?" Thank God, his voice had
changed. He had spoken slowly and in acceptance of the tale. Sally conquered a sob that would
have betrayed her. Toby had been tricked. There was still a chance that she might be able to
manage him for the present.

Sally thought for a moment, but in a distracted blur. All her plans, made upon the assumption
that he would be at sea for at least a week longer, had miscarried. There was now no sense
in moving her mother hurriedly and secretly. Toby, in the room above, would be aware of everything.
She must arrange this differently. It would need a careful scheme. When would Toby receive
his letter? Probably it would not be forwarded at all, but would be kept at the offices of
the shipping company. That was what had happened once or twice before. He would be at home
a week. She had a week. How tired she was! She must get away now, and have a chance to think;
but she must see Toby again. She must.

"To-morrow," Sally gasped. "To-morrow night. Eight o'clock. Marble Arch. Eight o'clock, or
a bit after. I might be kept a little late."

To her inexpressable thankfulness, Toby rather grumblingly agreed.

"We'll go to the pictures," he said. "There's a picture house there."

"Wherever you like. Toby, I must go."

They kissed long and passionately; and when Sally was alone, sitting in the tramcar on its
way to Holborn, she found that she was trembling from head to foot. She was in consternation,
and prevented from crying only by the steadily inquisitive stare of a stout woman opposite.
Sally had never been so afraid, so distraught. She had never been in such a bewildering and
terrifying difficulty. She was only half conscious.

vii

And when she reached the hotel their sitting-room was in darkness. Gaga had evidently been
home, for the evening paper had been thrown upon the floor, and his hat and coat were upon
one of the chairs. Sally remembered what she had told her mother, and went quickly to the bedroom
door. It was true. Gaga lay groaning in bed, and there was a faint smell of sickness in the
air. Sally instinctively recoiled, and went back into the sitting-room. Her hands came together
and jerked in a gesture of despair. Everything was against her. The white face was whiter;
the mischievous eyes were sombre. She was a lonely and frightened child without any support
in her life. She was too young, in spite of her vivacity, to endure such trials unbroken; and
in this situation she was overwhelmed.

With her hands to her mouth, Sally stumbled to the hearthrug, and bowed her head against the
arm of a chair. Painful sobs shook her body.

"Oh, I wish I was dead! I wish I was dead!" she wailed.

In that moment of lost hope she was faced only with the impossibility of dealing with all her
trials. She had been over-excited, and she was desperate. Everything had gone wrong. She was
thus early face to face with the consequences of her own blithe and over-confident actions;
and the consequences threatened disaster. Death would really at this moment have seemed better
than the effort she must make to grapple with her problems. It would have been so much easier,
and she was without courage. Afraid lest her sobs might arouse Gaga and bring him groaning
to her side, she stifled them. But they made her body heave for a long time, until at last
with tear-filled eyes she stared at the fire, and knew that the fit was over.

What was Sally to do? There was the fatal letter already waiting somewhere for Toby, or on
its way to him. The thought of it made her body feel as though it were covered with prickles.
She could not keep still, but started to her feet and took several paces, her hand to her cheek,
as she remained deep in disturbed thought. If she saw Toby the next night, and was again afraid
to tell him of her marriage, what would become of her? Sooner or later he was bound to know.
The letter would tell him. Oh, if only she had not written that letter! She would have had
time, and time was what she needed--time to remove her mother, to cover her own tracks. And
yet she knew now that she could not give Toby up. And yet to give up her ambitions was now
a proposition equally impossible. She could not. She would not. She wanted everything. She
wanted Toby; but she wanted her opportunity with the business. If Toby would only ... what?
She could not bear the idea of his marrying another girl. She wanted him for herself. But if
he would only accept the situation--for the present. If he would keep quiet. He would not.
She could not control him, because he was another human being, with desires and impulses as
insistent as her own.

Her mind came round to another position. If she had not married Gaga--if she had kept on playing
with him, tantalising him, until she had been indispensable! No; that was impossible. Wretched
creature though she felt him at this moment to be, Gaga also was a human being. Sally was in
conflict with the world, because the world opposes to the wilfulness of the individual a steady
pressure that is without mercy because it is without considerateness. Nothing is more selfish
than the individual, except the mass of individuals, which has greater power. Again, in her
torment, Sally longed for death. Then, quickly tangential, she returned to Toby and their coming
meeting. If she did not tell him, but let him find her letter--she would have lost him. He
would be savagely angry. He would infallibly kill her, because she would have deserved his
vengeful hatred.

A moan reached Sally's ears. Her name was called. Gaga must have seen from his bed the light
in the next room. She hesitated, repugnance and cruelty struggling in her mind with the knowledge
that she must submit to her burden. Then she again turned to the bedroom, fighting down her
distaste, her horror of sickness and illness, of invalidism, of Gaga in particular. She saw
his grey face all pointed and sunken in the electric light, and took in the general bareness
of the bedroom, with its plain iron bedstead and cream coloured crockery and worn carpet and
walls of a cold pale blue.

"Sally," groaned Gaga. "I've been waiting for you."

"You ill?" she asked, perfunctorily. "Is your head bad?"

"Dreadful! How long you've been." Gaga's voice was feeble. He spoke with difficulty. His hand
was reached out for hers. With an effort Sally took it, and bent and kissed Gaga's temple.
He looked ghastly, and his face was moist with perspiration. Had Gaga seen the aversion in
Sally's eyes he would have released her in horror; but he was self-engrossed. He had been longing
for her, and as Sally sat on the edge of the bed smoothing the hair back from his brow he nestled
closer to her, appeased by the contact, and genuinely comforted by her presence. His eyes closed.
He made no attempt to speak.

So they remained for several moments. Then Sally tried to move, and he resisted her movement
with a clinging protest.

"I'm just going to tidy up a bit," she said. "Then I'm coming to bed."

"I wish you'd get me something.... Some Bovril ... or ... something." Gaga was like a wasted
child, not fractious, but fretful and wanting to be petted. Sally shuddered as she took steps
to gratify him; and was glad to have some occupation that carried her out of the room and gave
her something to do. She was momentarily diverted from thought of Toby; but she had a new desire
to be away from the hotel, and in some house or flat which she could control by herself. It
would be so much easier. It would....

When she was in bed she was prevented from sleeping by her now recurring difficulties. She
was absolutely unable to make a plan for Toby. She was disgusted with Gaga and his sickness.
She was afraid and rebellious and exasperated. And as she lay there she felt Gaga moving, and
heard his faint groaning, and shook with a frenzy that was a thousand times more than irritation
at the tangle in which she was placed. Like all young people, she imperiously demanded a fresh
start--to cut all this mess away, and begin again as though nothing at all had happened. She
tried to repudiate her own actions. It was no good. She could not cancel them. What she had
done was done, and the consequences were inexorable. It was with consequences alone that she
had to deal. Stifled screams rose within her. She turned frantically from side to side.

"Sally!" peevishly protested Gaga. "I can't get ... get to sleep if you fidget like that. You're
keeping me ... awake. Disturbing me."

"Am I?" cried Sally, with suppressed anger steeling her voice. "I can't get to sleep either.
It's deadly!"

"But you're ... fidgetting."

"Oh.... I thought I was lying quite still!" she exclaimed, with irony. A bitter laugh was checked
upon her lips.

There was a silence, and Sally tried to sleep. It was of no use. With a deep sigh that was
almost a passionate exclamation, she once again gave way to her uncontrollable restlessness.

"Sally!" came the grizzling voice of Gaga.

"What?" she shouted, past all self-restraint.

"You're fidgetting!"

"Well! Who wouldn't? You groaning--groaning--groaning. Enough to make anybody fidget. Why,
you're making me sick! Why can't you look after yourself?... What's the use of eating things
that make you ill?"

"I didn't," groaned Gaga. "I only want to get to sleep."

"O--oh!" It was a savage, inhuman sound of horror and despair. Sally, unendurably exasperated,
slipped out of bed, and put on a skirt and coat. Then she went into the sitting-room, made
up the fire, and curled herself up in one of the armchairs. A thin voice followed her.

"Sally!" It was a direct call to hysteria. "Sally.... Sally...."

"Oh, shut up!" cried Sally. "I can't stand it. I can't stand it."

"My dearest...."

She ignored Gaga; but she could not sleep. Although he called no more, she heard him still
occasionally making some plaintive sound, while she continued to lie curled in the chair until
her limbs were cramped. Long she pondered upon her fate and her situation; and the morning
found her still irresolute, filled with distaste for Gaga, and fear of Toby, and a general
loathing of the difficulties which she and they had jointly created. She was unhappy in a way
that she had never previously known, helplessly indignant, and all the time argumentative and
explanatory to herself because she knew that for all that was now threatening her she alone
was at heart to blame. But this did not prevent Sally from disliking Gaga as she had not hitherto
disliked him; for Gaga was the person whom she had most injured, and the person who now stood
in the way of complete liberty. It was as yet only an hysterical exasperation due to her search
for some scapegoat; but his sickness and his peevish complaints of her restlessness had added
to Sally's feeling an ingredient of distaste which she could not overcome.

viii

In the morning, when they met, Gaga was sulkily distant; and Sally sat opposite to him at their
chilly breakfast with a puckered brow and a curled lip. It was not hatred that fired her, but
repugnance. If Gaga had made any motion towards an embrace she would wildly have pushed him
from her. She could not have borne his touch. She was even thankful that he was so silent.
In this estrangement she found momentary relief. And all the time, hammering in her head, was
the one thought--Toby, Toby. What was she to do with Toby? As she left Gaga at breakfast she
was still on the borders of hysteria. She was suffering so much from the trials of the night
that she was hardly in her senses.

