Our home-made gas yields a smoky and unsatisfactory flame, owing to the presence of certain
impurities--ammonia, tar, sulphuretted hydrogen, and carbon bisulphide. A gas factory must
be equipped with means of getting rid of these objectionable constituents. Turning to Fig.
195, which displays very diagrammatically the main features of a gas plant, we observe at the
extreme right the retorts, which correspond to our canister. These are usually long fire-brick
tubes of D-section, the flat side at the bottom. Under each is a furnace, the flames of which
play on the bottom, sides, and inner end of the retort. The outer end projecting beyond the
brickwork seating has an iron air-tight door for filling the retort through, immediately behind
which rises an iron exit pipe, A, for the gases. Tar, which vaporizes at high temperatures,
but liquefies at ordinary atmospheric heat, must first be got rid of. This is effected by passing
the gas through the hydraulic main, a tubular vessel half full of water running the whole length
of the retorts. The end of pipe A dips below the surface of the water, which condenses most
of the tar and steam. The partly-purified gas now passes through pipe B to the condensers,
a series of inverted U-pipes standing on an iron chest with vertical cross divisions between
the mouths of each U. These divisions dip into water, so that the gas has to pass up one leg
of a U, down the other, up the first leg of the second pipe, and so on, till all traces of
the tar and other liquid constituents have condensed on the inside of the pipe, from which
they drop into the tank below.

The next stage is the passage of the scrubber, filled with coke over which water perpetually
flows. The ammonia gas is here absorbed. There still remain the sulphuretted hydrogen and the
carbon bisulphide, both of which are extremely offensive to the nostrils. Slaked lime, laid
on trays in an air-tight compartment called the lime purifier, absorbs most of the sulphurous
elements of these; and the coal gas is then fit for use. On leaving the purifiers it flows
into the gasometer, or gasholder, the huge cake-like form of which is a very familiar object
in the environs of towns. The gasometer is a cylindrical box with a domed top, but no bottom,
built of riveted steel plates. It stands in a circular tank of water, so that it may rise and
fall without any escape of gas. The levity of the gas, in conjunction with weights attached
to the ends of chains working over pulleys on the framework surrounding the holder, suffices
to raise the holder.

Some gasometers have an enormous capacity. The record is at present held by that built for
the South Metropolitan Gas Co., London, by Messrs. Clayton & Son of Leeds. This monster (of
which we append an illustration, Fig. 196) is 300 feet in diameter and 180 feet high. When
fully extended it holds 12,158,600 cubic feet of gas. Owing to its immense size, it is built
on the telescopic principle in six "lifts," of 30 feet deep each. The sides of each lift, or
ring, except the topmost, have a section shaped somewhat like the letter N. Two of the members
form a deep, narrow cup to hold water, in which the "dip" member of the ring above it rises
and falls.

AUTOMATIC STOKING.

The labour of feeding the retorts with coal and removing the coke is exceedingly severe. In
the illustration on p. 400 (made from a very fine photograph taken by Mr. F. Marsh of Clifton)
we see a man engaged in "drawing" the retorts through the iron doors at their outer ends. Automatic
machinery is now used in large gasworks for both operations. One of the most ingenious stokers
is the De Brouwer, shown at work in Fig. 198. The machine is suspended from an overhead trolley
running on rails along the face of the retorts. Coal falls into a funnel at the top of the
telescopic pipe P from hoppers in the story above, which have openings, H H, controlled by
shutters. The coal as it falls is caught by a rubber belt working round part of the circumference
of the large wheel W and a number of pulleys, and is shot into the mouth of the retort. The
operator is seen pulling the handle which opens the shutter of the hopper above the feed-tube,
and switching on the 4 h.p. electric motor which drives the belt and moves the machine about.
One of these feeders will charge a retort 20 feet long in twenty-two seconds.

A GAS GOVERNOR.

Some readers may have noticed that late at night a gas-jet, which a few hours before burned
with a somewhat feeble flame when the tap was turned fully on, now becomes more and more vigorous,
and finally may flare up with a hissing sound. This is because many of the burners fed by the
main supplying the house have been turned off, and consequently there is a greater amount of
gas available for the jets still burning, which therefore feel an increased pressure. As a
matter of fact, the pressure of gas in the main is constantly varying, owing partly to the
irregularity of the delivery from the gasometer, and partly to the fact that the number of
burners in action is not the same for many minutes together. It must also be remembered that
houses near the gasometer end of the main will receive their gas at a higher pressure than
those at the other end. The gas stored in the holders may be wanted for use in the street lamps
a few yards away, or for other lamps several miles distant. It is therefore evident that if
there be just enough pressure to give a good supply to the nearest lamp, there will be too
little a short distance beyond it, and none at all at the extreme point; so that it is necessary
to put on enough pressure to overcome the friction on all these miles of pipe, and give just
enough gas at the extreme end. It follows that at all intermediate points the pressure is excessive.
Gas of the average quality is burned to the greatest advantage, as regards its light-giving
properties, when its pressure is equal to that of a column of water half an inch high, or about
1/50 lb. to the square inch. With less it gives a smoky, flickering light, and with more the
combustion is also imperfect.

Every house supply should therefore be fitted with a gas governor, to keep the pressure constant.
A governor frequently used, the Stott, is shown in section in Fig. 199. Gas enters from the
main on the right, and passes into a circular elbow, D, which has top and bottom apertures
closed by the valves V V. Attached to the valve shaft is a large inverted cup of metal, the
tip of which is immersed in mercury. The pressure at which the governor is to act is determined
by the weights W, with which the valve spindle is loaded at the top. As soon as this pressure
is exceeded, the gas in C C lifts the metal cup, and V V are pressed against their seats, so
cutting off the supply. Gas cannot escape from C C, as it has not sufficient pressure to force
its way through the mercury under the lip of the cup. Immediately the pressure in C C falls,
owing to some of the gas being used up, the valves open and admit more gas. When the fluctuations
of pressure are slight, the valves never close completely, but merely throttle the supply until
the pressure beyond them falls to its proper level--that is, they pass just as much gas as
the burners in use can consume at the pressure arranged for.

Governors of much larger size, but working on much the same principle, are fitted to the mains
at the point where they leave the gasometers. They are not, however, sensitive to local fluctuations
in the pipes, hence the necessity for separate governors in the house between the meter and
the burners.

THE GAS-METER

commonly used in houses acts on the principle shown in Fig. 200. The air-tight casing is divided
by horizontal and vertical divisions into three gas-chambers, B, C, and D. Gas enters at A,
and passes to the valve chamber B. The slide-valves of this allow it to pass into C and D,
and also into the two circular leather bellows E, F, which are attached to the central division
G, but are quite independent of one another.

We will suppose that in the illustration the valves are admitting gas to chamber C and bellows
F. The pressure in C presses the circular head of E towards the division G, expelling the contents
of the bellows through an outlet pipe (not shown) to the burners in operation within the house.
Simultaneously the inflation of F forces the gas in chamber D also through the outlet. The
head-plates of the bellows are attached to rods and levers (not shown) working the slide-valves
in B. As soon as E is fully in, and F fully expanded, the valves begin to open and put the
inlet pipe in communication with D and E, and allow the contents of F and C to escape to the
outlet. The movements of the valve mechanism operate a train of counting wheels, visible through
a glass window in the side of the case. As the bellows have a definite capacity, every stroke
that they give means that a certain volume of gas has been ejected either from them or from
the chambers in which they move: this is registered by the counter. The apparatus practically
has two double-action cylinders (of which the bellows ends are the pistons) working on the
same principle as the steam-cylinder (Fig. 21). The valves have three ports--the central, or
exhaust, leading to the outlet, the outer ones from the inlet. The bellows are fed through
channels in the division G.

INCANDESCENT GAS LIGHTING.

The introduction of the electric arc lamp and the incandescent glow-lamp seemed at one time
to spell the doom of gas as an illuminating agent. But the appearance in 1886 of the Welsbach
incandescent mantle for gas-burners opened a prosperous era in the history of gas lighting.

The luminosity of a gas flame depends on the number of carbon particles liberated within it,
and the temperature to which these particles can be heated as they pass through the intensely
hot outside zone of the flame. By enriching the gas in carbon more light is yielded, up to
a certain point, with a flame of a given temperature. To increase the heat of the flame various
devices were tried before the introduction of the incandescent mantle, but they were found
to be too short-lived to have any commercial value. Inventors therefore sought for methods
by which the emission of light could be obtained from coal gas independently of the incandescence
of the carbon particles in the flame itself; and step by step it was discovered that gas could
be better employed merely as a heating agent, to raise to incandescence substances having a
higher emissivity of light than carbon.

Dr. Auer von Welsbach found that the substances most suitable for incandescent mantles were
the oxides of certain rare metals, thorium, and cerium. The mantle is made by dipping a cylinder
of cotton net into a solution of nitrate of thorium and cerium, containing 99 per cent. of
the former and 1 per cent. of the latter metal. When the fibres are sufficiently soaked, the
mantle is withdrawn, squeezed, and placed on a mould to dry. It is next held over a Bunsen
gas flame and the cotton is burned away, while the nitrates are converted into oxides. The
mantle is now ready for use, but very brittle. So it has to undergo a further dipping, in a
solution of gun-cotton and alcohol, to render it tough enough for packing. When it is required
for use, it is suspended over the burner by an asbestos thread woven across the top, a light
is applied to the bottom, and the collodion burned off, leaving nothing but the heat-resisting
oxides.

The burner used with a mantle is constructed on the Bunsen principle. The gas is mixed, as
it emerges from the jet, with sufficient air to render its combustion perfect. All the carbon
is burned, and the flame, though almost invisible, is intensely hot. The mantle oxides convert
the heat energy of the flame into light energy. This is proved not only by the intense whiteness
of the mantle, but by the fact that the heat issuing from the chimney of the burner is not
nearly so great when the mantle is in position as when it is absent.

The incandescent mantle is more extensively used every year. In Germany 90 per cent. of gas
lighting is on the incandescent system, and in England about 40 per cent. We may notice, as
an interesting example of the fluctuating fortunes of invention, that the once doomed gas-burner
has, thanks to Welsbach's mantle, in many instances replaced the incandescent electric lamps
that were to doom it.

[38] If, of course, there is no safety-valve in proper working order included in the installation.

CLOCKS AND WATCHES.

A SHORT HISTORY OF TIMEPIECES.

The oldest device for measuring time is the sun-dial. That of Ahaz mentioned in the Second
Book of Kings is the earliest dial of which we have record. The obelisks of the Egyptians and
the curious stone pillars of the Druidic age also probably served as shadow-casters.

The clepsydra, or water-clock, also of great antiquity, was the first contrivance for gauging
the passage of the hours independently of the motion of the earth. In its simplest form it
was a measure into which water fell drop by drop, hour levels being marked on the inside. Subsequently
a very simple mechanism was added to drive a pointer--a float carrying a vertical rack, engaging
with a cog on the pointer spindle; or a string from the float passed over a pulley attached
to the pointer and rotated it as the float rose, after the manner of the wheel barometer (Fig.
153). In 807 A.D. Charlemagne received from the King of Persia a water-clock which struck the
hours. It is thus described in Gifford's "History of France":--"The dial was composed of twelve
small doors, which represented the division of the hours. Each door opened at the hour it was
intended to represent, and out of it came a small number of little balls, which fell one by
one, at equal distances of time, on a brass drum. It might be told by the eye what hour it
was by the number of doors that were open, and by the ear by the number of balls that fell.
When it was twelve o'clock twelve horsemen in miniature issued forth at the same time and shut
all the doors."

Sand-glasses were introduced about 330 A.D. Except for special purposes, such as timing sermons
and boiling eggs, they have not been of any practical value.

The clepsydra naturally suggested to the mechanical mind the idea of driving a mechanism for
registering time by the force of gravity acting on some body other than water. The invention
of the weight-driven clock is attributed, like a good many other things, to Archimedes, the
famous Sicilian mathematician of the third century B.C.; but no record exists of any actual
clock composed of wheels operated by a weight prior to 1120 A.D. So we may take that year as
opening the era of the clock as we know it.

About 1500 Peter Hele of Nuremberg invented the mainspring as a substitute for the weight,
and the watch appeared soon afterwards (1525 A.D.). The pendulum was first adopted for controlling
the motion of the wheels by Christian Huygens, a distinguished Dutch mechanician, in 1659.

To Thomas Tompion, "the father of English watchmaking," is ascribed the honour of first fitting
a hairspring to the escapement of a watch, in or about the year 1660. He also introduced the
cylinder escapement now so commonly used in cheap watches. Though many improvements have been
made since his time, Tompion manufactured clocks and watches which were excellent timekeepers,
and as a reward for the benefits conferred on his fellows during his lifetime, he was, after
death, granted the exceptional honour of a resting-place in Westminster Abbey.

THE CONSTRUCTION OF TIMEPIECES.

A clock or watch contains three main elements:--(1) The source of power, which may be a weight
or a spring; (2) the train of wheels operated by the driving force; (3) the agent for controlling
the movements of the train--this in large clocks is usually a pendulum, in small clocks and
watches a hairspring balance. To these may be added, in the case of clocks, the apparatus for
striking the hour.

THE DRIVING POWER.

Weights are used only in large clocks, such as one finds in halls, towers, and observatories.
The great advantage of employing weights is that a constant driving power is exerted. Springs
occupy much less room than weights, and are indispensable for portable timepieces. The employment
of them caused trouble to early experimenters on account of the decrease in power which necessarily
accompanies the uncoiling of a wound-up spring. Jacob Zech of Prague overcame the difficulty
in 1525 by the invention of the fusee, a kind of conical pulley interposed between the barrel,
or circular drum containing the mainspring, and the train of wheels which the spring has to
drive. The principle of the "drum and fusee" action will be understood from Fig. 201. The mainspring
is a long steel ribbon fixed at one end to an arbor (the watchmaker's name for a spindle or
axle), round which it is tightly wound. The arbor and spring are inserted in the barrel. The
arbor is prevented from turning by a ratchet, B, and click, and therefore the spring in its
effort to uncoil causes the barrel to rotate.

A string of catgut (or a very fine chain) is connected at one end to the circumference of the
drum, and wound round it, the other end being fixed to the larger end of the fusee, which is
attached to the driving-wheel of the watch or clock by the intervention of a ratchet and click
(not shown). To wind the spring the fusee is turned backward by means of a key applied to the
square end A of the fusee arbor, and this draws the string from off the drum on to the fusee.
The force of the spring causes the fusee to rotate by pulling the string off it, coil by coil,
and so drives the train of wheels. But while the mainspring, when fully wound, turns the fusee
by uncoiling the string from the smallest part of the fusee, it gets the advantage of the larger
radius as its energy becomes lessened.

The fusee is still used for marine chronometers, for some clocks that have a mainspring and
pendulum, and occasionally for watches. In the latter it has been rendered unnecessary by the
introduction of the going-barrel by Swiss watchmakers, who formed teeth on the edge of the
mainspring barrel to drive the train of wheels. This kind of drum is called "going" because
it drives the watch during the operation of winding, which is performed by rotating the drum
arbor to which the inner end of the spring is attached. A ratchet prevents the arbor from being
turned backwards by the spring. The adoption of the going-barrel has been made satisfactory
by the improvements in the various escapement actions.

THE ESCAPEMENT.

The spring or weight transmits its power through a train of cogs to the escapement, or device
for regulating the rate at which the wheels are to revolve. In clocks a pendulum is generally
used as the controlling agent. Galileo, when a student at Pisa, noticed that certain hanging
lamps in the cathedral there swung on their cords at an equal rate; and on investigation he
discovered the principle that the shorter a pendulum is the more quickly will it swing to and
fro. As has already been observed, Huygens first applied the principle to the governing of
clocks. In Fig. 202 we have a simple representation of the "dead-beat" escapement commonly
used in clocks. The escape-wheel is mounted on the shaft of the last cog of the driving train,
the pallet on a spindle from which depends a split arm embracing the rod and the pendulum.
We must be careful to note that the pendulum controls motion only; it does not cause movement.

The escape-wheel revolves in a clockwise direction. The two pallets a and b are so designed
that only one can rest on the teeth at one time. In the sketch the sloping end of b has just
been forced upwards by the pressure of a tooth. This swings the pallet and the pendulum. The
momentum of the latter causes a to descend, and at the instant when b clears its tooth a catches
and holds another. The left-hand side of a, called the locking-face, is part of a circle, so
that the escape-wheel is held motionless as long as it touches a: hence the term, "dead beat"--that
is, brought to a dead stop. As the pendulum swings back, to the left, under the influence of
gravity, a is raised and frees the tooth. The wheel jerks round, and another tooth is caught
by the locking-face of b. Again the pendulum swings to the right, and the sloping end of b
is pushed up once more, giving the pendulum fresh impetus. This process repeats itself as long
as the driving power lasts--for weeks, months, or years, as the case may be, and the mechanism
continues to be in good working order.

COMPENSATING PENDULUMS.

Metal expands when heated; therefore a steel pendulum which is of the exact length to govern
a clock correctly at a temperature of 60° would become too long at 80°, and slow the clock,
and too short at 40°, and cause it to gain. In common clocks the pendulum rod is often made
of wood, which maintains an almost constant length at all ordinary temperatures. But for very
accurate clocks something more efficient is required. Graham, the partner of Thomas Tompion,
took advantage of the fact that different kinds of metal have different ratios of expansion
to produce a self-compensating pendulum on the principle illustrated by Fig. 203. He used steel
for the rod, and formed the bob, or weighted end, of a glass jar containing mercury held in
a stirrup; the mercury being of such a height that, as the pendulum rod lengthened with a rise
of temperature, the mercury expanded upwards sufficiently to keep the distance between the
point of suspension and the centre of gravity of the bob always the same. With a fall of temperature
the rod shortened, while the mercury sank in the jar. This device has not been improved upon,
and is still used in observatories and other places where timekeepers of extreme precision
are required. The milled nut S in Fig. 203 is fitted at the end of the pendulum rod to permit
the exact adjustment of the pendulum's length.

For watches, chronometers, and small clocks

THE SPRING BALANCE

takes the place of the pendulum. We still have an escape-wheel with teeth of a suitable shape
to give impulses to the controlling agent. There are two forms of spring escapement, but as
both employ a hairspring and balance-wheel we will glance at these before going further.

The hairspring is made of very fine steel ribbon, tempered to extreme elasticity, and shaped
to a spiral. The inner end is attached to the arbor of the balance-wheel, the outer end to
a stud projecting from the plate of the watch. When the balance-wheel, impelled by the escapement,
rotates, it winds up the spring. The energy thus stored helps the wheel to revolve the other
way during the locking of a tooth of the escape-wheel. The time occupied by the winding and
the unwinding depends upon the length of the spring. The strength of the impulse makes no difference.
A strong impulse causes the spring to coil itself up more than a weak impulse would; but inasmuch
as more energy is stored the process of unwinding is hastened. To put the matter very simply--a
strong impulse moves the balance-wheel further, but rotates it quickly; a weak impulse moves
it a shorter distance, but rotates it slowly. In fact, the principle of the pendulum is also
that of the hairspring; and the duration of a vibration depends on the length of the rod in
the one case, and of the spring in the other.

Motion is transmitted to the balance by one of two methods. Either (1) directly, by a cylinder
escapement; or (2) indirectly, through a lever.

THE CYLINDER ESCAPEMENT

is seen in Fig. 204. The escape-wheel has sharp teeth set on stalks. (One tooth is removed
to show the stalk.) The balance-wheel is mounted on a small steel cylinder, with part of the
circumference cut away at the level of the teeth, so that if seen from above it would appear
like a in our illustration. A tooth is just beginning to shove its point under the nearer edge
of the opening. As it is forced forwards, b is revolved in a clockwise direction, winding up
the hairspring. When the tooth has passed the nearer edge it flies forward, striking the inside
of the further wall of the cylinder, which holds it while the spring uncoils. The tooth now
pushes its way past the other edge, accelerating the unwinding, and, as it escapes, the next
tooth jumps forward and is arrested by the outside of the cylinder. The balance now reverses
its motion, is helped by the tooth, is wound up, locks the tooth, and so on.

THE LEVER ESCAPEMENT

is somewhat more complicated. The escape-wheel teeth are locked and unlocked by the pallets
P P^1 projecting from a lever which moves on a pivot (Fig. 205). The end of the lever is forked,
and has a square notch in it. On the arbor of the balance-wheel is a roller, or plate, R, which
carries a small pin, I. Two pins, B B, projecting from the plate of the watch prevent the lever
moving too far. We must further notice the little pin C on the lever, and a notch in the edge
of the roller.

In the illustration a tooth has just passed under the "impulse face" b of P^1. The lever has
been moved upwards at the right end; and its forked end has given an impulse to R, and through
it to the balance-wheel. The spring winds up. The pin C prevents the lever dropping, because
it no longer has the notch opposite to it, but presses on the circumference of R. As the spring
unwinds it strikes the lever at the moment when the notch and C are opposite. The lever is
knocked downwards, and the tooth, which had been arrested by the locking-face a of pallet P,
now presses on the impulse face b, forcing the left end of the lever up. The impulse pin I
receives a blow, assisting the unwinding of the spring, and C again locks the lever. The same
thing is repeated in alternate directions over and over again.

COMPENSATING BALANCE-WHEELS.

