The famous "Cincinnati platform" holds a conspicuous place in party literature for length,
for vigor of language, for variety of topics, for boldness of declaration; and yet, strange
to say, its chief merit and utility lay in the skillful concealment of its central thought
and purpose. About one-fourth of its great length is devoted to what to the eye looks like
a somewhat elaborate exposition of the doctrines of the party on the slavery question. Eliminate
the verbiage and there only remains an indorsement of the "principles contained in the organic
laws establishing the Territory of Kansas and Nebraska"

We have already seen how deliberately the spirit and letter of "the principle" was violated
by the Democratic National Administration of President Pierce, and by nearly all the Democratic
Senators and Representatives in Congress; and we shall see how the more explicit resolution
was again even more flagrantly violated by the Democratic National Administration and party
under President Buchanan.

For the time, however, these well-rounded phrases were especially convenient: first, to prevent
any schism in the Cincinnati Convention itself, and, secondly, to furnish points for campaign
speeches; politicians not having any pressing desire, nor voters the requisite critical skill,
to demonstrate how they left untouched the whole brood of pertinent queries which the discussion
had already raised, and which at its next national convention were destined to disrupt and
defeat the Democratic party. For this occasion the studied ambiguity of the Cincinnati platform
made possible a last coöperation of North and South, in the face of carefully concealed mental
reservations, to secure a presidential victory.

It is not the province of this work to describe the incidents of the national canvass, but
only to record its results. At the election of November, 1856, Buchanan was chosen President.
The popular vote in the nation at large stood: Buchanan, 1,838,169; Frémont, 1,341,264; Fillmore,
874,534. By States Buchanan received the votes of fourteen slave-States and five free-States,
a total of 174 electors; Frémont the vote of eleven free-States, a total of 114 electors; and
Fillmore the vote of one slave-State, a total of eight electors.[4]

In the campaign which preceded Mr. Buchanan's election, Mr. Lincoln, at the head of the Frémont
electoral ticket for Illinois, took a prominent part, traversing the State in every direction,
and making about fifty speeches.

  [Sidenote] Galena "Advertiser," copied into the Illinois "State
  Journal," August 8, 1856.

With three presidential tickets in the field--with the Democrats seeking the election of Buchanan
and Breckinridge, the Americans, or Know-Nothings, asking votes for Fillmore and Donelson,
and the Republicans making proselytes for Frémont and Dayton--the political campaign of 1856
was one of unabated activity and excitement. In the State of Illinois the contest resulted
in a drawn battle. The American party held together with tolerable firmness in its vote for
President, but was largely disintegrated in its vote on the ticket for State officers. The
consequence was that Illinois gave a plurality of 9164 for Buchanan, the Democratic candidate
for President, while at the same time it gave a plurality of 4729 for Bissell, the Republican
candidate for Governor.[5]

Half victory as it was, it furnished the Illinois Republicans a substantial hope of the full
triumph which they achieved four years later.

  [Sidenote] Illinois "State Journal," December 16, 1856.

Though these fragments of addresses give us only an imperfect reflection of the style of Mr.
Lincoln's oratory during this period, they nevertheless show its essential characteristics,
a pervading clearness of analysis, and that strong tendency to axiomatic definition which gives
so many of his sentences their convincing force and durable value. They also show us the combination,
not often found in such happy balance, of the politician's discernment of fact with the statesman's
wisdom of theory--how present forces of national life are likely to be moved by future impulses
of national will. The politician could see the four hundred thousand voters who would give
victory to some party in the near future. It required the wisdom of the statesman to divine
that the public opinion which would direct how these votes were to be cast, could most surely
be created by an appeal to those generous "central ideas" of the human mind which favor equality
against caste and freedom against slavery. Perhaps the most distinctively representative quality
these addresses exhibit is the patriotic spirit and faith which led him to declare so dogmatically
in this campaign of 1856, what the nation called upon him a few years later to execute by the
stern powers of war, "We do not want to dissolve the Union; you shall not."

---------- [1] For David Wilmot, of Pennsylvania, 43; Preston King, of New York, 9; Charles
Sumner, of Massachusetts, 36; Thomas H. Ford, of Ohio, 7; Cassius M. Clay, of Kentucky, 3;
Jacob Collamer, of Vermont, 15; William F. Johnston, of Pennsylvania, 2; Nathaniel P. Banks,
of Massachusetts, 46; Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts, 7; William Pennington, of New Jersey,
1; ---- Carey, of New Jersey, 3; S.C. Pomeroy, of Kansas, 8; J.R. Giddings, of Ohio, 2. The
vote in detail for Lincoln was: Maine, 1; New Hampshire, 8; Massachusetts, 7; Rhode Island,
2; New York, 3; Pennsylvania, 11; Ohio, 2; Indiana, 26; Illinois, 33; Michigan, 5; and California,
12.

[2] Mr. T.S. Van Dyke, son of one of the delegates, kindly writes us: "Nothing that Mr. Lincoln
has ever written is more characteristic than the following note from him to my father just
after the convention--not for publication, but merely as a private expression of his feelings
to an old acquaintance:

    "SPRINGFIELD, ILL.,
    "June 27, 1856.
    "Hon. JOHN VAN DYKE.

    "MY DEAR SIR: Allow me to thank you for your kind notice of me in
    the Philadelphia Convention.

    "When you meet Judge Dayton present my respects, and tell him I
    think him a far better man than I for the position he is in, and
    that I shall support both him and Colonel Frémont most cordially.
    Present my best respects to Mrs. V., and believe me,

    "Yours truly,

    "A. LINCOLN."

[3] On the sixteenth ballot Buchanan received 168 votes, of which 121 were from the free-States
and 47 from the slave-States; Douglas received 122 votes, of which 49 were from the free-States
and 73 from the slave-States; Cass received 6 votes, all from the free-States; Pierce had been
finally dropped on the previous ballot.--"Proceedings of the Cincinnati Convention," p. 45.

[4] The vote more in detail was as follows:

For Buchanan, slave-States, Alabama, 9; Arkansas, 4; Delaware, 3; Florida, 3; Georgia, 10;
Kentucky, 12; Louisiana, 6; Mississippi, 7; Missouri, 9; North Carolina, 10; South Carolina,
8; Tennessee, 12; Texas, 4; Virginia, 15. Free States, California, 4; Illinois, 11; Indiana,
13; New Jersey, 7; Pennsylvania, 27. Total, 174.

For Frémont, free-States, Connecticut, 6; Iowa, 4; Maine, 8; Massachusetts, 13; Michigan, 6;
New Hampshire, 5; New York, 35; Ohio, 23; Rhode Island, 4; Vermont, 5; Wisconsin, 5. Total, 114.

For Fillmore, slave-State, Maryland, 8.

[5] For President, Buchanan (Democrat), 105,344; Frémont (Republican), 96,180; Fillmore (American),
37,451. For Governor, Richardson (Democrat), 106,643; Bissell (Republican), 111,372; Morris
(American), 19,241.

CHAPTER III

CONGRESSIONAL RUFFIANISM

The official reports show that the proceedings of the American Congress, while in the main
conducted with becoming propriety and decorum, have occasionally been dishonored by angry personal
altercations and scenes of ruffianly violence. These disorders increased as the great political
struggle over the slavery question grew in intensity, and reached their culmination in a series
of startling incidents.

Charles Sumner, one of the Senators from the State of Massachusetts, had become conspicuous,
in the prevailing political agitation, for his aggressive and radical anti-slavery speeches
in the Senate and elsewhere. The slavery issue had brought him into politics; he had been elected
to the United States Senate by the coalition of a small number of Free-soilers with the Democrats
in the Massachusetts Legislature.

The slavery question, therefore, became the dominant principle and the keynote of his public
career. He was a man of liberal culture, of considerable erudition in the law, of high literary
ability, and he had attained an enviable social eminence. Of large physical frame and strength,
gifted with a fine presence and a sonorous voice, fearless and earnest in his opposition to
slavery, Charles Sumner was one of the favorite orators of the early declamatory period of
the Republican party.

He joined unreservedly in the exciting Senate debates, provoked by the rival applications from
Kansas for her admission as a State. On the 19th and 20th of May, 1856, he delivered an elaborate
speech in the Senate, occupying two days. It was one of his greatest efforts, and had been
prepared with his usual industry. In character it was a philippic rather than an argument,
strong, direct, and aggressive, in which classical illustration and acrimonious accusation
were blended with great effect. "Tyranny, imbecility, absurdity, and infamy," he continued,
"all unite to dance, like the weird sisters, about this crime."

In the course of his speech he alluded, among others, to A.P. Butler, of South Carolina, and
in reply to some severe strictures by that Senator during preceding debates, indulged in caustic
personal criticism upon his course and utterance, as well as upon the State which he represented.

    With regret [said Sumner], I come again upon the Senator from
    South Carolina [Mr. Butler], who, omnipresent in this debate,
    overflowed with rage at the simple suggestion that Kansas had
    applied for admission as a State; and with incoherent phrases
    discharged the loose expectoration of his speech, now upon her
    representative and then upon her people. There was no extravagance
    of the ancient parliamentary debate which he did not repeat; nor
    was there any possible deviation from truth which he did not make,
    with so much of passion, I am glad to add, as to save him from the
    suspicion of intentional aberration. But the Senator touches
    nothing which he does not disfigure--with error, sometimes of
    principle, sometimes of fact. He shows an incapacity of accuracy,
    whether in stating the Constitution or in stating the law, whether
    in details of statistics or the diversions of scholarship. He
    cannot open his mouth but out there flies a blunder.

Butler was not present in the Senate on either day; what he might have said or done, had he
been there, can only be conjectured. The immediate replies from Douglas and others were very
bitter. Among pro-slavery members of both Houses there was an under-current of revengeful murmurs.
It is possible that this hostile manifestation may have decided a young member of the House,
Preston S. Brooks, a nephew of Senator Butler, to undertake retaliation by violence. Acquainting
Henry A. Edmundson, another member, with his design, he waited on two different occasions at
the western entrance to the Capitol grounds to encounter Mr. Sumner, but without meeting him.

  [Sidenote] 1856.

On the 22d of May, two days after the speech, Brooks entered the Senate Chamber on the same
errand. The session had been short, and after adjournment Sumner remained at his desk, engaged
in writing. The sessions were at that time held in the old Senate Chamber, now occupied by
the Supreme Court. The seats were arranged in semicircles, with a railing to separate them
from a narrow lobby or open space next the wall; a broad aisle ran from the main door to the
desk of the presiding officer. Mr. Sumner's seat was in the outside row next to the railing,
at the second desk to the right from the entrance and the main aisle. Occupied with his work,
Mr. Sumner did not notice Mr. Brooks, sitting across the aisle to his left, and where in conversation
with a friend he was manifesting his impatience that a lady seated near Mr. Sumner did not
take her departure from the chamber. Almost at that moment she arose and went out; quickly
afterwards Brooks got up and advanced to the front of Sumner's desk. The act attracted the
attention of Brooks's friend; he was astonished, amid the bitterness of party feeling, to see
a South Carolina Representative talk to a Massachusetts Senator. His astonishment was quickly
corrected. Leaning upon the desk and addressing Sumner with a rapid sentence or two, to the
effect that he had read his speech, that it was a libel upon his absent relative, and that
he had come to punish him for it, Brooks began striking him on the head with a gutta-percha
walking-cane, of the ordinary length and about an inch in diameter.

Surprised, blinded and stunned by the blows, Sumner's first instinct was to grapple with his
assailant. This effort, however, was futile; the desk was between them, and being by his sitting
posture partially under it, Sumner was prevented from rising fully to his feet until he had
by main strength, in his struggles, wrenched it from its fastenings on the floor. In his attempt
to follow Brooks they became turned, and from between the desks moved out into the main aisle.
By this time, through the repetition of the heavy blows and loss of blood, Sumner became unconscious.
Brooks, seizing him by the coat-collar, continued his murderous attack till Sumner, reeling
in utter helplessness, sank upon the floor beside the desk nearest the aisle, one row nearer
the center of the chamber than his own. The witnesses variously estimated the number of blows
given at from ten to thirty. Two principal wounds, two inches long and an inch deep, had been
cut on the back of Sumner's head; and near the end of the attack, Brooks's cane was shivered
to splinters.

There were perhaps ten or fifteen persons in the chamber, and after the first momentary pause
of astonishment half a dozen started to interfere. Before they reached the spot, however, Lawrence
M. Keitt, another South Carolina Representative, came rushing down the main aisle, brandishing
his cane, and with imprecations warning lookers-on to "let them alone." Among those hastening
to the rescue, Mr. Morgan arrived first, just in time to catch and sustain the Senator as he
fell. Another bystander, who had run round outside the railing, seized Brooks by the arm about
the same instant; and the wounded man was borne to an adjoining room, where he was cared for
by a hastily summoned physician.

Among Mr. Sumner's friends the event created a certain degree of consternation. The language
which provoked the assault, whatever might be thought of its offensive character, was strictly
parliamentary, uninterrupted either by the chair or by any member. The assault itself was so
desperate and brutal that it implied a vindictiveness deeper than mere personal revenge. This
spirit of bullying, this resort to violence, had recently become alarmingly frequent among
members of Congress, especially as it all came from the pro-slavery party. Since the beginning
of the current session, a pro-slavery member from Virginia had assaulted the editor of a Washington
newspaper; another pro-slavery member, from Arkansas, had violently attacked Horace Greeley
on the street; a third pro-slavery member, from California, had shot an unoffending waiter
at Willard's Hotel. Was this fourth instance the prelude of an intention to curb or stifle
free Congressional debate? It is probable that this question was seriously considered at the
little caucus of Republican Senators held that night at the house of Mr. Seward. The Republicans
had only a slender minority in the Senate, and a plurality in the House; they could do nothing
but resolve on a course of parliamentary inquiry, and agree on an attitude of defense.

Sumner's colleague, Henry Wilson, made a very brief announcement of the occurrence to the Senate
on the following day, and it at once became apparent that the transaction would assume an almost
strictly party character. As no Democratic Senator proposed an inquiry, Mr. Seward moved for
a committee of investigation; upon which James M. Mason, of Virginia, proposed that the committee
should be elected by ballot. The result was that no Republican was chosen upon it; and the
committee reached the conclusion that it had no power in the premises, except to report the
occurrence to the House. In the House the usual committee from the three parties was raised,
resulting in two reports. The minority, sustained by the vote of sixty members, pleaded a want
of jurisdiction. The majority recommended the expulsion of Brooks, and expressed disapprobation
by the House of the course of his colleague, Edmundson, in countenancing the assault, and of
the act of Keitt in his personal interference. But the necessary two-thirds vote for the expulsion
of Brooks could not be obtained; a vote of censure was therefore passed by a large majority.
The discussion of the report and resolutions occupied the House several days, and whatever
effort members made to disguise their motives, their actions, either of condemnation or of
excuse, arose in the main clearly enough from their party relations. Under the forms of parliamentary
debate, the South and the North were breathing mutual recrimination and defiance.

The public of both sections took up the affair with equal party zeal. From the North came resolutions
of legislatures, outbursts of indignation in meetings and addresses, and the denunciation of
Brooks and his deed in the newspapers. In the South the exactly opposite sentiment predominated.
Brooks was defended and eulogized, and presented with canes and pitchers as testimonials to
his valor. When the resolution of censure had been passed, he at once resigned his seat in
the House, and going home to his constituents, was immediately reëlected. Within three weeks
he reappeared at the bar of the House, with a new commission from his Governor, and was sworn
in and continued his service as before. The arrogant address which preceded his resignation
contained the remarkable intimation that much more serious results might have grown out of
the incident. "No act of mine," he said, "on my personal account, shall inaugurate revolution;
but when you, Mr. Speaker, return to your own home, and hear the people of the great North--and
they are a great people--speak of me as a bad man, you will do me the justice to say that a
blow struck by me at this time would be followed by a revolution; and this I know."

Under the state of public sentiment then prevailing at the South, it would have been strange
if the extraordinary event and the succeeding debate had not provoked other similar affairs.
Mr. Sumner's colleague, Senator Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts (afterwards Vice-President of
the United States), in his speech characterized the assault as "brutal, murderous, and cowardly."
For this language Brooks sent him a challenge. Wilson wrote a reply declining the encounter,
but in the same letter announcing that "I religiously believe in the right of self-defense,
in its broadest sense."

One of the sharpest denunciations of the assault was made by Anson Burlingame, a Massachusetts
Representative (afterwards United States Minister to China, and still later Chinese Minister
to the United States). "I denounce it," he said, "in the name of the Constitution it violates.
For this, after some efforts had been made by friends to bring about an amicable understanding,
Brooks sent him also a challenge. Mr. Burlingame accepted the challenge, and his second designated
the Clifton House in Canada as the rendezvous and rifles as weapons. Burlingame at once started
on the journey; but Brooks declined to go, on the excuse that his life would not be safe on
such a trip through the North.

Broadened into national significance by all these attendant circumstances, the Sumner assault
became a leading event in the great slavery contest between the South and North. It might well
rank as one of the episodes of the civil war then raging in Kansas, out of which it had in
reality grown, and with which it was intertwined in motive, act, and comment. In result the
incident was extremely damaging to the South, for it tended more than any single Border-Ruffian
crime in Kansas to unite hesitating and wavering opinion in the North against the alarming
flood of lawlessness and violence, which as a rule found its origin and its defense in the
ranks of the pro-slavery party. Certainly no phase of the transaction was received by the North
with such popular favor as some of the bolder avowals by Northern Representatives of their
readiness to fight, and especially by Burlingame's actual acceptance of the challenge of Brooks.

The shock of the attack, and the serious wounds received by Mr. Sumner, produced a spinal malady,
from which he rallied with great difficulty, and only after severe medical treatment and years
of enforced abstinence from work. As the constituents of Brooks sent him back to the House,
so also the Legislature of Massachusetts, in January, 1857, with but few dissenting votes,
reëlected Sumner to a new senatorial term, beginning the 4th of March. He came to Washington
and was sworn in, but within a few days sailed for Europe, and during the greater part of the
long interim between that time and the succeeding Presidential campaign his seat in the Senate
remained vacant.

It was on the 4th of June, 1860, that he again raised his voice in debate. Some changes had
occurred: both Butler and Brooks were dead;[1] the Senate was assembled in its new hall in
the north wing of the Capitol extension. But in the main the personnel and the spirit of the
pro-slavery party still confronted him. "Time has passed," he said, "but the question remains."
A little more than four years before, he had essayed to describe "The Crime against Kansas";
now, in an address free from offensive personalities but more unsparing in rhetoric and stronger
in historical arraignment, he delineated what he named the "Barbarism of Slavery." Picturing
to ourselves the orator, the circumstances, and the theme, we can comprehend the exaltation
with which he exclaimed in his exordium: "Slavery must be resisted not only on political grounds,
but on all other grounds, whether social, economical, or moral. Ours is no holiday contest;
nor is it any strife of rival factions--of White and Red Roses; of theatric Neri and Bianchi;
but it is a solemn battle between Right and Wrong, between Good and Evil.... Grander debate
has not occurred in our history, rarely in any history; nor can this debate close or subside
except with the triumph of Freedom."

With this speech Sumner resumed his place as a conspicuous figure and an indefatigable energy
in national politics and legislation, tireless in attacking and pursuing slavery until its
final overthrow.

---------- [1] Preston S. Brooks died in Washington, January 27, 1857; Andrew P. Butler died
in South Carolina, May 25, 1857.

CHAPTER IV

THE DRED SCOTT DECISION

  [Sidenote] 1854.

  [Sidenote] March 6, 1857.

Deep and widespread as hitherto had been the slavery agitation created by the repeal of the
Missouri Compromise and by the consequent civil war in Kansas, an event entirely unexpected
to the public at large suddenly doubled its intensity. This was the announcement, two days
after Buchanan's inauguration, of the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in
the Dred Scott case. This celebrated case had arisen as follows:

Two or three years before the Nebraska bill was thought of, a suit was begun by a negro named
Dred Scott, in a local court in St. Louis, Missouri, to recover the freedom of himself and
his family from slavery. He alleged that his master, one Dr. Emerson, an army surgeon, living
in Missouri, had taken him as his slave to the military post at Rock Island, in the State of
Illinois, and afterwards to Fort Snelling, situated in what was originally Upper Louisiana,
but was at that time part of Wisconsin Territory, and now forms part of Minnesota. While at
this latter post Dred Scott, with his master's consent, married a colored woman, also brought
as a slave from Missouri, and of this marriage two children were born. All this happened between
the years 1834 and 1838. Afterwards Dr. Emerson brought Dred Scott and his family back to Missouri.
In this suit they now claimed freedom, because during the time of residence with their master
at these military posts slavery was there prohibited by positive law; namely, at Bock Island
by the ordinance of 1787, and later by the Constitution of Illinois; at Fort Snelling by the
Missouri Compromise acts of 1820, and other acts of Congress relating to Wisconsin Territory.

The local court in St. Louis before which this action was brought appears to have made short
work of the case. The learned chief-justice therefore ordered that Somersett, being claimed
as a Virginia slave brought by his master into England, when it was attempted to carry him
away against his will, should be discharged from custody or restraint, because there was no
positive law in England to support slavery. The doctrine was subsequently modified by another
English chief-justice, Lord Stowell, in 1827, to the effect that absence of positive law to
support slavery in England only operates to suspend the master's authority, which is revived
if the slave voluntarily returns into an English colony where slavery does exist by positive law.

The States of the Union naturally inherited and retained the common law of England, and the
principles and maxims of English jurisprudence not necessarily abrogated by the change of government,
and among others this doctrine of Lord Mansfield. Unlike England, however, where there was
no slavery and no law for or against it, some of the American States had positive laws establishing
slavery, others positive laws prohibiting it. Lord Mansfield's doctrine, therefore, enlarged
and strengthened by American statutes and decisions, had come to be substantially this: Slavery,
being contrary to natural right, exists only by virtue of local law; if the master takes his
slave for permanent residence into a jurisdiction where slavery is prohibited, the slave thereby
acquires a right to his freedom everywhere. On the other hand, Lord Stowell's doctrine was
similarly enlarged and strengthened so as to allow the master right of transit and temporary
sojourn in free-States and Territories without suspension or forfeiture of his authority over
his slave. Under the complex American system of government, in which the Federal Union and
the several States each claim sovereignty and independent action within certain limitations,
it became the theory and practice that towards each other the several States occupied the attitude
of foreign nations, which relation was governed by international law, and that the principle
of comity alone controlled the recognition and enforcement by any State of the law of any other
State. Under this theory, the courts of slave States had generally accorded freedom to slaves,
even when acquired by the laws of a free-State, and reciprocally the courts of free-States
had enforced the master's right to his slave where that right depended on the laws of a slave-State.
In this spirit, and conforming to this established usage, the local court of Missouri declared
Dred Scott and his family free.

The claimant, loath to lose these four human "chattels," carried the case to the Supreme Court
of the State of Missouri, where at its March term, 1852, it was reversed, and a decree rendered
that these negroes were not entitled to freedom. Three judges formed the court, and two of
them joined in an opinion bearing internal evidence that it was prompted, not by considerations
of law and justice, but by a spirit of retaliation growing out of the ineradicable antagonism
of freedom and slavery.

  [Sidenote] Scott, J., 15 Mo. Reports, pp. 582-6.

    Every State [says the opinion] has the right of determining how
    far, in a spirit of comity, it will respect the laws of other
    States. Those laws have no intrinsic right to be enforced beyond
    the limits of the State for which they were enacted. The respect
    allowed them will depend altogether on their conformity to the
    policy of our institutions.

To this partisan bravado the third judge replied with a dignified rebuke; in his dissenting
opinion he said:

  [Sidenote] Gamble, J., 15 Mo. Reports, pp. 589-92. [Citing
    cases.] ... But the Supreme Court of Missouri, so far from
    standing alone on this question, is supported by the decisions of
    other slave-States, including those in which it may be supposed
    there was the least disposition to favor emancipation. [Citing
    cases.] ... Times may have changed, public feeling may have
    changed, but principles have not and do not change; and in my
    judgment there can be no safe basis for judicial decision but in
    those principles which are immutable.

These utterances, it must be remembered, occurred in the year 1852, when all slavery agitation
was supposed to have been forever settled. They show conclusively that the calm was superficial
and delusive, and that this deep-reaching contest was still, as before the adjustment of 1850,
actually transforming the various institutions of society. Gradually, and as yet unnoticed
by the public, the motives disclosed in these opinions were beginning to control courts of
justice, and popular discussion and excitement were not only shaping legislation, but changing
the tenor of legal decisions throughout the country.

Not long after the judgment by the Supreme Court of Missouri, Dred Scott and his family were
sold to a man named Sandford, who was a citizen of New York. This circumstance afforded a ground
for bringing a similar action in a Federal tribunal, and accordingly Dred Scott once more sued
for freedom, in the United States Circuit Court at St. Louis.[1] The case was tried in May,
1854, and a decree rendered that they "were negro slaves, the lawful property" of Sandford.
As a final effort to obtain justice, they appealed by writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the United States, the highest judicial tribunal of the nation.

