On the west of the gatehouse a series of apartments were being prepared for the Duke of Clarence
at the time of his death, and were afterwards assigned to the present Prince and Princess of
Wales. At the west end is Clarence House, in the occupation of the Duke of Connaught. This
was occupied by the King of Prussia and his sons on their visit to England in 1814. The Duchess
of Kent resided here until 1861.

The Lord Chamberlain's offices and residence, and also the official residence of the Keeper
of the Privy Purse, are among the official chambers in the palace. There are minor offices
also, those of the Clerk of the Works, and the Gentlemen of the Wine Cellar; there are state
apartments and the quarters of the Gentlemen at Arms and the Yeomen of the Guard. There are
several courts in the palace, namely, the Ambassadors' Court, Engine Court, Friary Court, and
Colour Court. There have been various chapels connected with the palace, but the only two of
importance are the Chapel Royal and German Chapel, which still remain.

The Chapel Royal is supposed to be on the site of the chapel of the ancient hospital, and various
Norman remains dug up in the course of repairs favour this supposition. The roof is beautifully
decorated in panels by Holbein; the date of its completion is supposed to be 1540. Prince George
and Princess Anne; Frederick, Prince of Wales; George IV.; Queen Victoria; and the Empress
Frederick, were all married in this Chapel.

The German Chapel was founded in 1700 by Princess Anne; service was held in it once on Sundays
up to the present reign, but has now been discontinued.

Just opposite to the palace is Marlborough House, the residence of the Prince and Princess
of Wales. The house was built in 1709 at the public expense, as a national compliment to the
Duke of Marlborough. Sir Christopher Wren was the architect. After the death of the third Duke
it was sublet to Leopold, subsequently King of the Belgians. Queen Adelaide lived in it after
the death of King William IV. The building was afterwards used as a gallery for the pictures
known as the Vernon Collection. But in 1850 it was settled on King Edward VII., then Prince
of Wales, when he should attain his eighteenth year, which he did nine years later. The interior
is decorated with beautiful mural paintings executed by La Guerre; many of these represent
the battles of the famous Duke of Marlborough. On the removal of the King to Buckingham Palace
the present Prince of Wales comes in his turn to Marlborough House.

Carlton House Terrace owes its name to Carlton House, built by Henry Boyle, Baron Carlton,
in Queen Anne's reign. It was afterwards sold to Frederick, Prince of Wales, and was occupied
subsequently by George IV. before he succeeded to the throne. J. T. Smith says: "Many a saturnalia
did those walls witness in the days of his hot youth." Princess Charlotte was born here. In
1811 the ceremony of conferring the regency upon Prince George was enacted at Carlton House,
and in the June following the Prince gave a magnificent supper to 2,000 guests. In 1827 the
house was pulled down. It stood right across the end of the present Waterloo Place, where now
a flight of steps lead into the park. At the head of the steps is the York Column of granite,
124 feet high, designed by Wyatt, and surmounted by a figure of the Duke of York, son of George
III.

One of the sights of London in the seventeenth century, was the garden which lay between St.
James's Park and Charing Cross, called Spring Gardens. The place was laid out as a bowling-green;
it had also butts, a bathing-pond, a spring made to scatter water all around by turning a wheel.
There was also an ordinary, which charged 6s. for a dinner--then an enormous price--and a tavern
where drinking of wine was carried on all day long.

After the Restoration the gardens were built over. Prince Rupert lived here 1674-1682. Colley
Cibber, actor and prolific dramatist, had a house "near Bull's Head Tavern in Spring Gardens,
1711-14"; Sir Philip Warwick and George Canning were also among the residents.

"Locket's ordinary, a house of entertainment much frequented by gentry," was on the site of
Drummond's Bank:

    "Come, at a crown ahead ourselves we'll treat:
    Champagne our liquor, and ragouts our meat;

           *       *       *       *       *

    With evening wheels we'll drive about the Park,
    Finish at Locket's, and reel home i' the dark."

Vague rumour assigns an earlier house to Cromwell on the same spot. The bank was established
about 1712 by Mr. Andrew Drummond, a goldsmith. George III. transferred his account from Coutts'
to Drummond's when he was displeased with the former firm, and he desired Messrs. Drummond
to make no advances to Frederick, Prince of Wales, who also had an account here. This order
was obeyed, with the consequences that in the succeeding reign the royal account was transferred
again to Messrs. Coutts. The County Council offices are at present a very noticeable feature
in Spring Gardens, and the aspect of the place is no longer rural.

The part of Whitehall included in St. Martin's parish is not very large, yet it is of some
importance. On the west side is Old Scotland Yard, for long associated with the headquarters
of the Metropolitan Police, now removed to New Scotland Yard. Stow says:

"On the left hand from Charing Cross are also divers tenements lately built till ye come to
a large plot of ground inclosed with brick, and is called Scotland, where great buildings have
been for receipt of the Kings of Scotland and other estates of that country, for Margaret Queen
of Scots and sister to King Henry VIII. had her abiding here when she came to England after
the death of her husband, as the Kings of Scotland had in former times when they came to the
Parliament of England."

Here for some time was the official residence of the Surveyor of Works to the Crown, and Inigo
Jones and Sir Christopher Wren were both occupants. Sir J. Vanbrugh also resided at Scotland
Yard, and as Secretary to the Council Milton had an official residence here before he went
to Petty France, as described in the book on Westminster in the same series.

Craig's or Cragg's Court, in which is the Royal Almonry office, is shown in old maps. Strype
speaks of it as a "very handsome large Court, with new buildings fit for gentry of Repute."
It was built in 1702, and is supposed to have been called after the father of Secretary Craggs,
who was a friend of Pope and Addison. Woodfall, the publisher, had a West End office in the
court, and Romney the painter lived there. There is a fine old Queen Anne house still standing
at the back of the court.

Opposite Scotland Yard is the Admiralty, built round a courtyard, and hidden by a stone screen
surmounted by sea-horses. The screen was the work of the brothers Adam, and was put up to hide
a building which even the taste of George III.'s reign declared to be insufferable. This had
been built for the Admiralty in 1726, and replaced old Wallingford House, so called from its
first owner, Viscount Wallingford, who built it in the reign of James I. George Villiers, the
well-known Duke of Buckingham, bought the house, and used it until his death. Archbishop Usher
saw the execution of Charles I. from the roof, and swooned with horror at the sight. The house
was occupied by Cromwell's son-in-law, General Fleetwood, and in 1680 became Government property.
In one of the large rooms the body of Nelson lay in state before his national funeral.

St. Catherine's Hermitage, Charing Cross, stood somewhere near Charing Cross. It is believed
to have been about the position of the post-office. It belonged to the See of Llandaff, and
was occasionally used as a lodging by such Bishops of that See as came to attend the Court
and had no town-house.

St. Mary Rounceval, on the site of Northumberland House, was founded by William Marischal,
Earl of Pembroke, in Henry III.'s reign. The Earl gave several tenements to the Prior of Rounceval,
in Navarre, who established here the chief house of the priory in England. The hospital was
finally suppressed by Edward VI. The little village of Charing then stood between London and
Westminster. It formed part of the great demesne belonging to the Abbey of Westminster, and
was inhabited chiefly by Thames fishermen, who had a settlement on the bank, and by the farmers
of the Westminster estates. The derivation of the name from La Chère Reine is purely fanciful.

There is certainly no part of London which has been so much changed as Charing Cross. In other
parts the houses are changed, but the streets remain. Here the whole disposition of the streets
has been transformed. The secondary part of the name recalls the beautiful cross, the last
of the nine which marked the places where Queen Eleanor's coffin rested on its journey from
Lincolnshire to Westminster Abbey. The cross was destroyed by the fanatical zeal of the Reformers.
The equestrian statue of Charles I., cast in 1633 by Le Soeur, occupies the site of the cross.
It had not been set up when the Civil War broke out, and was sold by the Parliament to John
Rivit, a brazier, who lived by the Holborn Conduit, on condition that it should be broken up.
John Rivit, however, buried the statue, and dug it up again after the Restoration. It was not
until 1674 that it was actually erected, on a new pedestal made by Grinling Gibbons, in the
place which it now occupies, which is the site of the old cross, the place where the regicides
were executed, and where the Charing Cross pillory stood. It is curious to remark on the preservation
of the site of the cross. It was apparently railed in; some of the stones of which it was made
were used in paving Whitehall. Ballads were written on its destruction:

    "Undone, undone, the lawyers are;
      They wander about the towne,
    Nor can find the way to Westminster
      Now Charing Cross is downe.
    At the end of the Strand they make a stand,
      Swearing they are at a loss,
    And chaffing say that's not the way,
      They must go by Charing Cross."

                           CUNNINGHAM.

Many of the regicides were executed at this spot in Charles II.'s reign, within sight of the
place where they had murdered their King. These men, according to the brutal temper of the
times, were cut down when half hanged and disembowelled before a great concourse of people.
Pepys mentions going to the executions as to a show. Later the pillory stood here in which,
among others, Titus Oates suffered. But, besides these dismal reminiscences, Charing Cross
was at one time famed for its taverns and festive places of amusement, and was the resort of
wits and literati in the eighteenth century. Dr. Johnson speaks of the "full tide of human
existence" being at Charing Cross, and if he could see it now he might be confirmed in his opinion.

At the top of the present Northumberland Avenue stood formerly Northumberland House, the last
of the Strand palaces to be destroyed, and until its destruction the chief glory and ornament
of the street and Charing Cross. It was never an episcopal palace, having been built in 1605
by the Earl of Northampton; from him it went to the Earl of Suffolk, and was called for a time
Suffolk House; in 1642 it fell into the hands of the Earl of Northumberland, and by marriage
into those of the Duke of Somerset until 1749, when the daughter of the Duke of Somerset succeeded,
and by her marriage with Sir Hugh Smithson the house became the property of this family, now
Dukes of Northumberland, until its compulsory sale in the year 1874. The house originally consisted
of three sides of a quadrangle, the fourth side lying open with gardens stretching down to
the river. The front was wrongly attributed to Inigo Jones. The house had been repaired or
rebuilt in many places, so that there was not much that was ancient left in its later days.
By the side of Northumberland House formerly ran Hartshorn Lane, now entirely obliterated.
Ben Jonson was born here, and lived here in his childhood.

Trafalgar Square was built over the site of what was formerly the Royal Mews, a building of
very ancient foundation; and a rookery of obscure and ill-famed lanes and alleys on the west
and north of St. Martin's Church, popularly known as the Bermudas, and afterwards the Caribbean
Islands. In the midst of the mews stood a small and remarkable building called Queen Elizabeth's
Bath. It is almost impossible to estimate the difference between the then and the now, in regard
to this particular part. St. Martin's Lane continued right up to Northumberland House, where
the lion of the proud Percies stiffened his tail on the parapet. The house stood across the
present head of Northumberland Avenue. The Royal Mews themselves were where the fountains now
splash, and on the further side of them was Hedge Lane.

Pennant says the Mews was so called from having been used for the King's falcons--at least,
from the time of Richard III. to Henry VIII. In the latter King's reign the royal horses were
stabled here, but the name Mews was retained, and has come to be applied to any town range
of stabling. The mews were removed to make way for the National Gallery about 1834. Geoffrey
Chaucer, the poet, was Clerk of the King's Works, and of the Mews at Charing about the end
of Richard II.'s reign. During the Commonwealth Colonel Joyce was imprisoned in the Mews by
order of Oliver Cromwell.

It is supposed that we are indebted to William IV. for the idea of a square to be called Trafalgar
in honour of Nelson, and to contain some worthy memorial of the hero. The total height of the
monument, designed by Railton, is 193 feet, and its design is from that of one of the columns
of the Temple of Mars at Rome. The statue, which looks so small from the ground, is really
17 feet high, nearly three times the height of a man; it was the work of E. H. Baily, R.A.
The pedestal has bronze bas-reliefs on its four sides, representing the four greatest of Nelson's
battles, Trafalgar, St. Vincent, Aboukir, and Copenhagen. The massive lions on the extended
pedestal were designed by Sir Edwin Landseer.

Of the other statues, that of George IV. is by Sir Francis Chantrey, and was originally intended
for the top of the Marble Arch, and that of General Gordon was designed by Hamo Thorneycroft.
Bronze blocks let into the north wall of the square contain the measures of the secondary standards
of length, and were inserted here in 1876 by the Standards Department of the Board of Trade.
The Union Club and College of Physicians are on the west side of the square. The latter was
founded by Dr. Linacre, physician to King Henry VIII.

The National Gallery was not designed as it now stands, but grew gradually. The idea of a collection
of national pictures began in 1824, when the Angerstein Collection of thirty-eight pictures
was purchased. The building began in 1832, and was opened six years later, but there were then
only six rooms devoted to the national collection, the remainder being used by the Royal Academy
of Arts. The Academy, however, betook itself to Burlington House in 1869, and subsequently
the National Gallery was enlarged, and is now well worthy of its name. The English are taunted
with not being an artistic nation; this may be, but they recognise merit when they see it,
and the national collection need fear comparison with no other in the world. The sections of
the gallery include Italian schools, schools of the Netherlands and Germany, Spanish, French,
and British schools; in the last named the Turner Collection claims two rooms.

St. Martin's Church was founded by Henry VIII., who disliked to see the funerals of the inhabitants
passing through Whitehall on their way to St. Margaret's, Westminster, but there had probably
been an ecclesiastical building on or near this site from a very early date. In 1222 there
was a controversy between the Bishop of London and the Dean and Chapter of St. Paul's on the
one hand and the Abbot and Canons of Westminster on the other, as to the exemption of the chapel
and convent of the latter from the jurisdiction of the former. The matter was settled in favour
of Westminster. It is probable that this chapel was for the use of the monks when they visited
their convent garden.

In 1721 the old church was pulled down, and a new one built from the designs of Gibbs the architect,
whose bust stands in the building near the entrance. A rate was levied on the parish for expenses,
but money poured in so liberally that a gift of £500 toward the enrichment of the altar was
declined.

The building has been derided, but it has the merit of a bold conception. Ralph in "Publick
Buildings" says: "The portico is at once elegant and august, and the steeple above it ought
to be considered one of the most tolerable in town. The east end is remarkably elegant, and
very justly challenges a particular applause; in short, if there is anything wanting in this
fabric, it is a little more elevation."

The only original features in the interior are the two royal pews, not now used, which look
down on the altar. St. Martin's is the royal parish, including in its boundaries Buckingham
Palace and St. James's, but the births of the Royal Family are not registered here, as has
been frequently stated. There is no monument in the church of any intrinsic interest, and the
only other noticeable details are two beautiful mosaic panels on either side of the chancel,
put up by Lady Frederick Cavendish to the memory of her husband.

Among the names of those buried in the old church is that of Vansomer, a portrait-painter.
Nell Gwynne, Roubiliac, and Jack Sheppard--whose first theft took place at Rummer's Tavern,
near Charing Cross--lie in the burial-ground. There is a large crypt, with vaulted roof, below
the church, and here are several monuments from the old building, and also the ancient whipping-post.

Before the erection of the palaces along the riverside the fishermen of the Thames lived beside
the river bank at Charing Cross. A piece of ground in the churchyard of St. Martin's was set
apart for their use and kept separate. Meantime, as one after the other of the Bishops' town-houses
were built, the fishermen found themselves pushed farther up the river, until finally they
were fairly driven away, and established themselves at Lambeth, where the last of them lived
in the early part of the nineteenth century. Their burial-ground, meantime, was preserved even
after they had disappeared. The churchyard of St. Martin's was curtailed in 1826, and the parish
burial-ground removed to Pratt Street, Camden Town.

Behind the National Gallery is the National Portrait Gallery, opened in 1896, and opposite
to it St. Martin's Town Hall, with the parish emblem--St. Martin dividing his cloak with a
beggar--in bas-relief on the frontage.

Charing Cross Road is very modern. It was opened in 1887, and swept over a number of narrow
courts and alleys.

For St. Martin's Lane, see p. 16.

In this is the Public Library, where some watercolours and old prints of vanished houses are
hung on the staircase. There is also the eighteenth-century plan from Strype's Survey, well
worth studying.

Leicester Square, at first known as Leicester Fields, is associated with the Sidneys, Earls
of Leicester, who had a town-house on the north side, where the Empire Music-hall is now. This
was a large brick building, with a courtyard before it and a Dutch garden at the back. During
the reign of Charles I. and in the time of the Commonwealth the Sidneys tenanted it, but later
it was occupied by foreign Ambassadors. Elizabeth, Queen of Bohemia, took it in 1662, and afterwards
it was aptly described by Pennant as "the pouting-place of Princes"; for George, son of George
I., established here a rival Court when he had quarrelled with his father, and his son Frederick,
the Prince of Wales, did precisely the same thing. During the latter tenancy a large building
adjoining, called Savile or Ailesbury House, was amalgamated with Leicester House. George III.
was living here when hailed King. Savile House stood until the Gordon Riots, when it was completely
stripped and gutted by the rioters. The square was presented to the public in 1874 by Baron
Albert Grant, M.P. The gift is recorded on the pedestal of the statue of Shakespeare standing
in the centre.

The square was for long a favourite place for duels. A line drawn diagonally from the north-east
to the south-west corner roughly indicates the boundary of St Martin's parish, the upper half
of the square being in St. Anne's, Soho.

The associations of this part are numerous and very interesting. The busts of the four men
standing in the corners of the centre garden have all some local connection. They are those
of Hogarth, Sir Joshua Reynolds, Sir Isaac Newton, and John Hunter. Hogarth's house was on
the east, on the site of Tenison's School, and next to it was that of John Hunter, the famous
surgeon. Sir Joshua Reynolds bought No. 47 on the west side in 1760, and lived in it until
his death. Sir Isaac Newton lived in the little street off the south side of the square, at
the back of the big new Dental Hospital. His house is still standing, and bears a tablet of
the Society of Arts. It is quite unpretentious--a stucco-covered building with little dormer-windows
in the roof. The great scientist came here in 1710, when he was nearly sixty, and his fame
was then world-wide. Men from all parts of Europe sought the dull little street in order to
converse with one whose power had wrought a revolution in the methods of scientific thought.
In the same house Miss Burney afterwards lived with her father. Sir Thomas Lawrence took apartments
at No. 4, Leicester Square, in 1786, when only seventeen, but he had already begun to exhibit
at the Royal Academy. The square was for long a favourite place of residence with foreigners,
and has not even yet lost a slightly un-English aspect.

Archbishop Tenison's School is at the south-east corner of the square. Its founder, who was
successively Bishop of Lincoln and Archbishop of Canterbury, intended that it should counterbalance
a flourishing Roman Catholic school in the Savoy precincts. Among old boys may be mentioned
Postlethwaite, afterwards Master of St. Paul's; Charles Mathews, when very young; Horne Tooke
a former Lord Mayor of London; and Liston who was for a time usher.

As stated above, the northern half of the square is in the parish of St. Anne's, Soho, a parish
now tenanted to a very large extent by foreigners, chiefly French and Italians. Shaftesbury
Avenue, running diagonally through the parish, is of very recent origin.

Soho has been derived from the watchword of Monmouth at Sedgemoor, because the Duke had a house
in Soho, then King's Square. It is much more likely that the reverse is the case, and the Duke
took the watchword from the locality in which he lived, for the word Soho occurs in the rate-books
long before the Battle of Sedgemoor was fought. In 1634 So-howe appears in State papers; and
various other spellings are extant, as Soe-hoe, So-hoe. This district was at one time a favourite
hunting-ground, and Halliwell-Phillipps in the "Dictionary of Archaic and Provincial Words"
suggests that the name has arisen from a favourite hunting cry, "So-ho!"

The parish was first made independent of St. Martin's in 1678. Soho has always been a favourite
locality with foreigners. There were three distinct waves of emigration which flooded over
it: first after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1635; then in 1798, during the Reign
of Terror; and thirdly in 1871, when many Communists who had escaped from Paris found their
way to England. At the present time half the population of the parish consists of foreigners,
of which French and Italians preponderate, but Swiss, Germans, and specimens of various other
nationalities, are frequently to be met with in the streets.

The parish church of St. Anne's was so named "after the mother of the Virgin Mary and in compliment
to Princess Anne." The site was a piece of ground known as Kemp's Field, and the architect
selected was Sir Christopher Wren. The building is in all respects like others of its period,
but has a curious spire added later. This has been described as "two hogsheads placed crosswise,
in the ends of which are the dials of the clock," and above is a kind of pyramid, ending in a vane.

The old churchyard lies above the level of the street, and has been turned into a public garden.
Facing the principal entrance in Wardour Street is a stone monument to King Theodore of Corsica,
and a small crown on the stone marks his rank.

Close by is a monument to the essayist Hazlitt, born 1778, died 1830. The inscription says
that he lived to see his deepest wishes gratified as he expressed them in his essay on the
"Fear of Death," and proceeds to set forth at considerable length the tenor of those wishes.

During the dinner-hour, when the weather is fine, the graveyard seats are filled by the very
poorest of the poor, many of them aliens, far from their own country, and sad beneath the gray
skies of the land that gives them bread, but denies them sun.

In the registers are recorded the baptisms of two of the children of George II., and five of
the children of Frederick, Prince of Wales, born at Leicester House, in this parish.

Wardour Street has long been celebrated for its shops of old china, bric-à-brac, and furniture.
It can claim Flaxman among its bygone residents.

Dean Street is a long and narrow thoroughfare, a favourite residence with artists at the end
of the eighteenth century; the names of Hayman, Baily, Ward, and Belines are all to be found
here in association. Sir James Thornhill lived at No. 75, where there are the remains of some
curious staircase paintings by him, in the composition of which he is said to have been assisted
by his son-in-law, Hogarth. Turner, the father of the great painter, was a hairdresser in Dean
Street, and Nollekens' father died in No. 28. In the house adjoining the Royalty Theatre Madame
Vestris was born.

Frith Street in old maps is marked "Thrift Street," a name by no means inappropriate at the
present time. It also has its associations, and can claim the birth of Sir Samuel Romilly,
the great law reformer, who lived until the early part of the nineteenth century, and whose
father was a jeweller here; the early boyhood of Mozart, and the death of Hazlitt, which took
place in furnished lodgings. The failure of his publishers had made him short of money; he
was harassed by pecuniary cares, yet his last words were: "I've had a happy life."

The following advertisement bearing date March 8, 1765, is worth quotation: "Mr. Mozart, the
father of the celebrated Young Musical Family who have so justly raised the Admiration of the
greatest musicians of Europe, proposes to give the Public an opportunity of hearing these young
Prodigies perform both in public and private, by giving on the 13th of this month a concert
which will be chiefly conducted by his Son, a boy of eight years of age, with all the overtures
of his own composition. Tickets may be had at 5s. each at Mr. Mozart's, or at Mr. Williamson's
in Thrift Street, Soho, where Ladies and Gentlemen will find the Family at Home every day in
the week from 12 to 2 o'clock and have an opportunity of putting his talents to a more particular
proof by giving him anything to play at sight or any Music without a Bass, which he will write
upon the spot without recurring to his harpsichord."

In this street there are many interesting relics of bygone splendour. No. 9--now to let--has
a splendid well staircase with spiral balusters. The walls and ceiling of this are lined with
oil-paintings of figures larger than life. These have unfortunately been somewhat knocked about
during successive tenancies, but clearly show that the house was one of considerable importance
in past times. It was in lodgings in this street that Mrs. Inchbald wrote her "Simple Story,"
published 1791, in four volumes, which was an immediate success. She was an actress as well
as an author, and a friend of the Kembles. Her dramatic writings were very many.

At No. 13, Greek Street were Wedgwood's exhibition-rooms. In No. 27 De Quincey used to sleep
on the floor by permission of Brumel, the money-lender's attorney.

On the other side of Shaftesbury Avenue, and parallel with it, is Gerrard Street, a dingy,
unpretending place, but thick with memories and associations. It was built about 1681, and
was called after Gerard, Earl of Macclesfield. Wheatley quotes from the Bagford MSS. of the
British Museum to the effect that "Henry, Prince of Wales, son of James I., caused a piece
of ground near Leicester Fields to be walled in for the exercise of arms. Here he built a house,
which was standing at the Restoration. It afterwards fell into the hands of Lord Gerard, who
let the ground out to build upon." Hatton speaks of "Macclesfield House, alias Gerrard House,
a well-built structure situate in Gerrard Street ... now (1708) in possession of Lord Mohun."
Dryden lived in Gerrard Street in a house on the site of one marked by a tablet of the Society
of Arts. He died here, and his funeral was interrupted by a drunken frolic of Mohocks headed
by Lord Jeffreys. Close by is an hotel, where once Edmund Burke resided; opposite to him J.
T. Smith lodged, as he tells us in "Nollekens and his Times," and he could look into Burke's
rooms when they were lighted, and see the patient student at work until the small hours of
the morning. Charles Kemble and his family also resided in this street.

On the site of the Westminster General Dispensary was a tavern named the Turk's Head, where
the well-known literary club had its origin. The members were at first twelve in number, including
Sir Joshua Reynolds, Dr. Johnson, Edmund Burke, Dr. Nugent, Topham Beauclerk, Mr. Langton,
Dr. Goldsmith, and Sir J. Hawkins. In 1772 the number of the members was increased to twenty,
and instead of meeting weekly, on Mondays, for a supper, they met every fortnight, on a Friday,
and dined together. David Hume was here in 1758, and the actor Edmund Kean passed most of his
boyhood in this street, sheltered by a couple who had adopted him when his mother deserted
him in Frith Street. All his early boyhood is associated with this neighbourhood; he was found
in Frith Street, and his schools were in Orange Court, Leicester Square, and Chapel Street,
Soho. The dispensary is in itself interesting, being one of the very oldest institutions of
the kind, established in 1774.

