"It was a standard joke in the old time," said an experienced operator recently, "to find out
what numbers a man had played, and then to volunteer to stop at the City Hall and take a copy
of the numbers drawn. A false slip was invariably brought back, and when the player examined
it, seeing all the numbers he had bought, he generally dropped his work and went to collect
the winning. When the lottery was driven from New York, interested persons used to cross over
to New Jersey to witness the drawing, and the numbers were taken from the wheel amid the greatest
noise and excitement. Some numbers were received with derisive hoots and howls, and others
applauded; and all through the drawing certain favorites would be loudly and continually called
for, and if they failed to appear curses filled the air. After being driven out of New Jersey,
the lottery men found refuge in several other places, notably Delaware, Maryland, and other
Southern States. The principal drawings now take place at Covington, Ky., opposite Cincinnati.
The numbers from 1 to 78 inclusive are put into glass globes and placed in a wheel. This wheel
is turned until the numbers are well mixed, when a trap in the wheel is opened and a boy, with
his eyes tightly bandaged and arm bare, draws forth one of the globes, which is unscrewed and
the number in it called. From ten to fourteen numbers are thus drawn, according to the size
of the lottery. The drawing is immediately telegraphed on to New York in cipher, certain words
standing for certain numbers. After the drawing is translated the runners are furnished with
a list of the numbers on a 'running slip,' as it is called, which they immediately take to
the various policy shops. No 'hits' are paid on the running slips, as some of the numbers are
invariably wrong. About an hour or so after the drawings are received in New York, a printed
slip is sent to every office, and then all claims are promptly settled. The managers, being
in an unlawful business in this State, have the opportunity to swindle as they please. The
players have no redress. Ten thousand dollar 'hits' have been made, according to tradition,
and 'hits' of from $500 to $1,500 are known of sometimes. Three-number lottery tickets are
sold on every drawing, and constitute a very lucrative branch of the business. Prizes are supposed
to range from $30,000 down, and any ticket with one draw-number on it entitles the holder to
the price originally paid for it. The first three drawn numbers constitute the first prize,
and that ticket nobody ever gets."

The most of the money spent in policy is on "gigs" and "combinations." A "gig" is composed
of three numbers, and they must all come out of the same lottery to entitle the player to win.
Besides "gigs," there are "saddles," "capitals," "horses," "cross-plays," and "station numbers."
In fact there are almost as many ways of playing policy as there are numbers in the wheel.
As an old gambler explained it:

"You see there are placed in the wheel 78 numbers, from which are drawn 12, 13, 14, or 15,
as the case may be. The latter number will not be drawn but once a week. Suppose 13 to be drawn.
The rates--that is, the sum the player will receive if he wins--are as follows: For day numbers,
5 for 1; for station or first numbers, 60 for l; for saddles, 32 for 1; for gigs, 200 for 1;
for capital saddles, 500 for 1; for horses, 680 for 1; and for station saddles 800 for 1. Cross
plays--the numbers to come in either lottery--may be made at the same rate, subject to a deduction
of 20 per cent. You see that some of these offer a remarkable margin for profit. The station
saddle, with its 800 for 1, seems to offer unequaled facilities for making a fortune. But since
the game was started, no one has ever been known to hit one. To get a station saddle you must
not only guess two of the thirteen numbers drawn, but you must also guess the position they
will occupy in the slip. The chances of this is so very remote that the policy-player, sanguine
as he generally is, very seldom attempts it. The next in order is the capital saddle, with
its 500 for 1. A capital is two of the first three numbers drawn. Of course there must be a
first, second, and third number, and either two of these three constitute a capital saddle."

The chances of playing a "capital saddle," "gig" or "horse" in policy are easily determined
by the following formulæ, well known to all students of the advanced branches of Algebra:

The number of combinations that can be formed of n things, taken two and two together, is

n * [(n – 1)/2]

For n things, taken three and three together, the number is

n * [(n – 1)/2] * [(n – 2)/3]

For n things, taken four and four together, the number is

n * [(n – 1)/2] * [(n – 2)/3] * [(n – 3)/4]

Applying these formulæ to policy, it will be seen that to ascertain the number of "saddles"
in any combination you multiply by the next number under and divide by 2; for "gigs," multiply
by the next two numbers under and divide by 6; while for "horses" you multiply the next three
numbers under and divide by 24. Thus,

78 X [(78 – 1)/2] = 3,003 "saddles."

78 X [(78 – 1)/2] X [(78 – 2)/3] = 76,076 "gigs."

78 X [(78 – 1)/2] X [(78 – 2)/3] X [(78 – 3)/4] = 1,426,425 "horses."

In other words, there are 3,003 "saddles" in 78 numbers, and it follows that any person playing
a capital has two chances in his favor and 3,001 against him.

There is a joke among policy-players that the game is the best in the world, because so many
can play it at once. Different players have various ways of picking out the numbers they think
will come out. Some go by dreams exclusively, some play chance numbers they run across in the
streets, or signs or express wagons, while others make a study of the game and play by fixed rules.

As we have already hinted, the business of policy-playing is insignificant in comparison to
what it used to be. Still we are assured that New York City is still spending a good many thousand
dollars a day in "policy," two-thirds of which professedly, and really more, goes to the managers
and agents. If policy-players would stop awhile and think seriously of their ways, they would
cease playing; or if they would keep an account of all the money spent on the game for a month
or two, they would discover that they had chosen a wrong road to fortune.

Pool gambling at the various race-courses in the suburbs of New York is now under stern interdict
of the law. This feature is greatly deplored by those who are in the habit of patronizing this
exciting pastime. Of course the business is carried on sub rasa in the city, in a sort of sporadic
form. No doubt, if we are to reason from analogy, the pool-fever, emboldened by being "winked
at" and tolerated, will, by and by, assume its noisy, epidemic manifestations.

It is hardly necessary to dwell on the familiar auction pool, with its close, stifling, dingy
room; its crowd of solemn, stupid, wide-awake gentlemen seated in chairs before a platform,
backed with a blackboard, on which are inscribed the names of the horses expected to start;
and its alert, chattering auctioneer, gay as a sparrow, and equally active, fishing for bids,
with strident voice and reassuring manner. A few words, however, may be spared to touch lightly
on what is designated the "Mutuel" system, which was invented by M. Joseph Oller, an ingenious
Frenchman, about 1866. Those who had the good fortune to attend Paris in 1867 may remember
that M. Oller's indicators were prominent race-course features during the Great Exposition.
They are now familiar to all frequenters of our American race-courses, and their mode of operation
needs no explanation. The pool-seller's profit is safe as in all big gambling schemes. He subtracts
a commission of five per cent., and thus makes a handsome profit when business is at all brisk.

The "Paris Mutuel" would appear to be a pretty square arrangement, but, according to those
acquainted with its true inwardness, it has been "easily manipulated by those in control."
There are two ways of cheating, according to one authority, and "both are practicable during
the last moments of the race, when the horses are coming up the home-stretch. At this time
everybody is anxiously intent upon the contest and nothing else, so that it is an easy matter
for the operator to see what horse is ahead, and then quietly add five or ten tickets to his
record on the indicator; or, on the other hand, if the horse favored by the 'ring' is away
behind, he can quietly take off some of his tickets and so save $50 or $100 out of the five.
The former, however, is the easier method and can be with difficulty detected, for very few
people keep transcripts of the French pools, more particularly that before they are closed
everybody is off trying to secure a good place to see the race."

The prohibition placed upon pool selling naturally renders the book-maker's occupation to be
at a premium. Book-making is reckoned a "science," and is based upon the principle of the operator
betting up to a certain limit, "play or pay," against every horse entered. Despite all statements,
official or otherwise, to the contrary, there are a large number of "hells" or gambling houses
in New York city, in which millions of dollars are lost every year by unwary persons. The New
York Herald of June 14, 1886, contains a synopsis of the experiences of an educated and high-toned
young man belonging to a good family, who had descended from gambling to the practices of a
sneak thief. According to the story he told Inspector Byrnes, he was in love and at the same time

"became infatuated with the gambling craze. I wanted to make my sweetheart some presents, and
hoped to make enough at the gaming table to purchase what I wanted. My game was rouge el noir--"red
and black"--and the establishments that I visited were on Sixth avenue, between Twenty-eighth
and Twenty-ninth streets, and in Thirty-second street, near Jerry McAuley's Mission House.
Instead of winning I lost. I bucked the game and it 'bucked' me. Then I was penniless and became
desperate. By honest ways I knew it would take a long time to pay my debts, and as I was in
desperate straits I determined to steal. As I did not associate with professional thieves I
had no reason to fear betrayal, so I became a rogue again."

There is this insuperable difficulty with the born gambler that he is unteachable. The fool
who ruins himself at Homburg or Monte Carlo belongs to the same type as the young man above,
whose identity was betrayed by a love-letter. Gamblers are always discovering some infallible
system of beating the bank. The first word in La Bruyére's famous work--"Tout est dit" "Everything
has been said,"--is true of gambling against the bank's system, which is to take a positive
advantage which must win in the long run. Not only has everything been said, but everything
has been done to beat the bank. Every move has been tried, and the result is evident to all
but those who are given over to "a reprobate mind" and will not be convinced. "To gamble against
the bank," said an eminent authority, "whether recklessly or systematically, is to gamble against
a rock."

If the odds are so much against the insane gambler who, secure in an infallible system, hastens
to place his foot on the neck of chance in what is called a "square" game, how must he inevitably
fare in a "skin" operation. And the stranger who comes within our gates, bent on backing his
methods by a wager, is almost sure to be beguiled into the "skin" game; for he is likely to
meet, lounging around his hotel, some fashionably dressed young man who spends money freely,
and who, by and by, kindly offers to show him around. He has run across a "roper-in," as he
is well named, whose business it is to track the footsteps of travelers visiting the metropolis
for business or pleasure. It is the engaging mission of those suave and persuasive gentlemen
to worm themselves into the confidence of strangers, with or without an infallible system of
beating the game, and introduce them to their employers, the gambling-hell proprietors. And
when the poor, misguided pigeon is plucked, the adroit "roper-in" receives his commission on
the profits realized. This hunting after pecunious strangers is so systematically carried on
that it might be dignified by the name of a science. Keepers of gambling-houses are necessarily
particularly wide-awake. They take care to be regularly informed of everything transpiring
in the city that may be of interest to their business, and their agents and emissaries leave
nothing to chance. They are not impetuous.

The reader, among other of Gotham's gambling devices, may have heard of what is aptly designated
"Skin Faro," but it is altogether unlikely that he may be acquainted with the modus operandi
of the game. Skin faro is not played at a regular establishment in which the player against
the bank is fleeced. The game is liable to drift against the stranger in his journey to New
York, or indeed on any railroad or steamboat, and the "point" is to get the unsophisticated
countryman to be banker. In this "racket" it is the banker who is to be skinned. According
to a recent authority the ordinary process is something like this:

"After the topic has been adroitly introduced and the party worked up to the desire to play,
it is proposed that the man with the most money shall act as banker. Now, in an ordinary square
game, few would be unwilling to stand in this position, for though the risk is considerable,
the profit is generally slow but certain. At this point the question rises as to who has a
pack of cards. The question is soon answered; there always is a pack handy, and the swindlers
have it; and this pack, if examined, will be found to contain a neat round pin-hole through
the center of the pack. The object of this pin-hole is as follows: the player against the bank
makes his boldest play on the turn, that is, at the end of the game, when there are only three
cards out, tarry; five, nine and all the aces, except spades, can be guessed with almost uniform
certainty by any one looking on the dealer's hand just before he is about to turn the last
two cards (excluding the one left in hoc). As the bank pays four for one 'on the turn,' it
is a very good thing for the player, and the faro banker, for the nonce the would-be sport,
soon finds himself cleaned out."

The following timely article on the newest racket in gambling in the City of New York is from
the Sunday Mercury of June 20, 1886:

"Since the gambling houses in the upper part of the city, where night games flourished, have
been closed and their business almost entirely suspended, a new method of operations has been
introduced. A Mercury reporter a few days ago was hurrying down Broadway, near Wall street,
when he was tapped on the shoulder by a young man not yet of age, whom he recognized as a clerk
in a prominent banking house, and whose father is also well known in financial circles. After
interchanging the usual courtesies the young clerk pulled a card-case from his pocket, and,
asking if the Mercury man liked to play poker, presented a neat little piece of white Bristol
board which read:

        HARRY R . . . . N,
      First Flat, No. -- Sixth Avenue.

"'If you want to play a nice quiet game,' remarked the promising clerk, 'you can take that
card and go up there any evening, or come with me to-night and see how the whole thing is done,
but whatever you do don't lose that card, for you can't get in without it.'

"Suspecting the nature of this 'quiet little game,' the reporter agreed to meet the banking
clerk that evening.

"'You will find a very nice set of fellows in this party,' remarked the clerk. 'There's none
of those toughs or men you see in regular gambling houses there, but young men like myself
and some of the best business men in this town. Why, I have seen young fellows there whose
fathers have got loads of rocks. They lose a good pile once in a while, but don't mind that,
because a fellow's no blood who cries just because he drops from ten to fifty dollars of a night.'

"The house was one of a row of French flat buildings, the ground floor of which is occupied
by stores. The clerk, on entering the vestibule, gave an electric button a familiar push with
the index finger and almost immediately the hall door swung itself open. As soon as the head
of the first flight of stairs was reached, a colored man, wearing a white tie, was met standing
near a door. To him the clerk gave a card, and the reporter following the example, both were
ushered into what happened to be a reception-room. Two heavy and rich Turkish curtains at one
end of this room were quickly pushed aside and the front or card parlor was then entered. There
were five round and oblong baize-covered tables in different parts of the elegantly furnished
apartment. A number of costly oil paintings hung on the frescoed walls and a well-stocked buffet
at one side completed the furniture. The adjoining rooms consisted of two sleeping apartments
and a rear connecting kitchen, in which a colored cook seemed quite busy.

"At the center table, where a game of draw poker was in full blast, was noticed two celebrated
professionals, a couple of race-horse owners and two clerks in a public department office down-town.
At a side table were the sons of a prominent Hebrew merchant and property owner, two college
students and several young men whose appearance would indicate they were employed in mercantile
houses. Another side table was surrounded by a gathering of Broadway statues and gambling house
hangers-on, who were engaged in a game called 'hide the heart,' and the last table had a circle
of big, heavy-bodied and solid-looking men about it who were putting up on a game known as
'stud-horse poker.' The reporter and the clerk were quickly accommodated with seats at the
center table, where 'draw poker' was in operation. The colored attendant with the white tie
was at hand, and pulling out a ten-dollar bill the clerk gave it to the negro with the request
to get him that amount of chips in return. The reporter followed suit with a crisp five-dollar
bill. The colored man went away with the money to the further end of the room, where he passed
it over to a clean-shaven and well-dressed young man with a big diamond in his shirt front.
This, the clerk informed him, was the proprietor of the place, who sat at a separate table,
and, after receiving the cash, handed out to the waiter several stacks of white and red ivory
chips, which were then brought back for the money. The play or 'ante' to the game was fifty
cents, with no limit. The white chips represented half a dollar each and the red ones just
double that sum. In the first two hands of cards the clerk lost his ten dollars, while the
reporter made a profit. A short time convinced the reporter the two professionals were hard
to beat.

"While an extremely close game was carried on, the house was certainly sure never to lose,
as it put up no money and as 'banker' reaped a steady percentage deducted from the chips of
all winners who cashed in.

"The clerk was broke in two hours' sitting and confessed he had lost sixty dollars, more than
three weeks' salary, and while he wore a gold chain over his vest, he had left his watch in
pledge with the game-owner for twenty dollars' worth of chips besides. As the reporter and
his guide reached the sidewalk, one of the young men who had been in the place was asked what
he thought of the place. Not suspecting the reporter's motive, the player answered glibly:
'Oh, that racket in French flats is getting to be all the go now, and I tell you it's immense.
The police can't get on to it, and now as all the faro games are closed or not making expenses,
and afraid to open, it is doing well. Then there is such a better class of people that go to
these places, people who would not care to be seen or caught in a regular concern. Now up in
Harry's you see how nice it is. There's your parlor to play in. Then if it's an all-night play
you can sleep in turns or lay off during the day, and get anything you want to eat right there.
'Get pulled?' Why, there ain't the ghost of a show for that in those flats. In the first place,
no one is let in without he is known or has a card; then a 'copper' can 't go in without forcing
an entrance or a warrant, and if he does, what evidence can be produced to show the place is
a gambling house? Why, gambling in the Fifth Avenue clubs is no better protected. No one in
the house up-stairs suspects what's going on. The halls are all carpeted and so are the stairs,
and you never can hear any one pass up and down. Then if any raid is made, can't a man swear
he was only having a game of cards in his own house with a party of friends?' In society, next
to progressive euchre, poker comes the highest.

"'Are there many of these private flat games?' asked the reporter. 'Oh, yes; there's at least
half a dozen I know of. There's one on Fifty-ninth street, one on Forty-fifth street, and several
more on Sixth Avenue and Broadway, and any quantity now in other private houses run as social
club rooms. You see, no games but poker--draw, stud-horse and straight, and hide the heart--are
allowed to be run. Now if you never was in Harry's before, and you were seen to be all right,
you would be given some cards to pass around to your friends confidentially, which would tell
them where to go for play and would get them in without bother."

The following from the Cincinnati Enquirer tells its own story:

"Slumming in New York always begins with a trip to Billy McGlory's. It is a Hester street dive.
What The. Allen was thought to be in the days when he was paraded as 'the wickedest man in
New York,' and what Harry Hill was thought to be in the days when the good old deacons from
the West used to frequent his dance hall, Billy McGlory is in New York to-day. The. Allen and
Harry Hill are both alive, but Billy McGlory bears off the palm of wickedness amid the wickedest
of Gotham. If you want to see his place, two things are necessary, a prize-fighter for a protector
and a late start. I had both when I went there the other night. My companions were half a dozen
Western men, stopping at an up-town hotel, and our guide was a little 'tough' who has fought
half a dozen prize fights and would fight at the drop of the hat. We had pooled issues and
one man had all the money in the party. Our wallets and watches and jewelry were left behind.
It was nearly midnight when we started, and half an hour later when the carriage drove us up
in front of a dingy-looking double doorway, from which the light was streaming. The walls around
were black; no light anywhere except that which came out of the open door. The entrance was
a long hall, with nothing visible at the further end from the outside. It might have served
for a picture of Milton's description of the 'Cavernous Entrance to Hell.'

"There was a policeman outside, and down the street a score of shadowy forms flitted in and
out of the shadows--prostitutes lying in wait for victims, our guide told us. McGlory's place
is a huge dance hall, which is approached by devious ways through a bar-room. There is a balcony
fitted up with tables and seats. There are tables and seats under the balcony. There are little
boxes partitioned off in the balcony for the best customers--that is the sight-seers--and we
got one of them. A piano is being vigorously thumped by a black-haired genius, who is accompanied
by a violinist and a cornet player. 'Don't shoot the pianist; he is doing his best,' the motto
a Western theater man hung up in his place, would be a good thing here. Yet the pianist of
one of these dance halls is by no means to be despised. It was from a position like this that
Counselor Disbecker rose within a few years to a legal standing that enabled him to get $70,000
out of Jake Sharpe for lawyer's fees. Transpositions are rapid in New York, and Billy McGlory,
who was on the Island a few months ago for selling liquor without license, may be an excise
commissioner himself before he dies.

"These side thoughts have crowded in while we are looking around. There are five hundred men
in the immense hall. There are a hundred females--it would be mockery to call them women. The
first we hear from them is when half a dozen invade our box, plump themselves in our laps,
and begin to beg that we put quarters in their stockings for luck. There are some shapely limbs
generously and immodestly shown in connection with this invitation. One young woman startles
the crowd by announcing that she will dance the cancan for half a dollar. The music starts
up just then, and she determines to do the cancan and risk the collection afterward. She seizes
her skirts between her limbs with one hand, kicks away a chair or two, and is soon throwing
her feet in the air in a way that endangers every hat in the box. The men about the hall are
all craning their necks to get a sight of what is going on in the box, as they hear the cries
of 'Hoop-la' from the girls there. There is a waltz going on down on the floor. I look over
the female faces. There is one little girl, who looks as innocent as a babe. She has a pretty
face, and I remark to a companion that she seems out of place among the other poor wretches--for
there is not an honest woman in the hall. Before we leave the place it has been demonstrated
that the little girl with the innocent face is one of the most depraved of all the habitues
of the place.

"The dance is over, and a song is being sung by a man on crutches with only one leg. 'He is
an honest fellow, is the Major,' says one of the girls. 'Poor fellow, he has a wife and six
children. He sticks to them like a good fellow and works hard to get a living. He sells pencils
in the day-time and works here at night.' A generous shower of coin goes on to the floor when
the Major finishes. I begin to notice the atmosphere of tobacco smoke. It is frightfully oppressive.
The 'champagne' that it has been necessary to order so as to retain the box has not been drank
very freely. The girls have been welcome to it the visitors having discovered that it is bottled
cider, with a treatment of whisky to give it a biting tang and taste. It costs three dollars
a bottle. It would cost a man more to drink it. There was a young business man of Cincinnati
here three or four weeks ago who filled himself up on it at a cost of $300. He had been foolish
enough to go to McGlory's alone. He was found on the Bowery at five o'clock the next morning
without any hat or overcoat. His pocket-book, watch and jewelry were gone. His only recollection
was that he had taken three or four drinks of McGlory's 'champagne.' He went to the hotel where
he was a guest and was wise enough to take the advice of the clerk. By paying $100 and no questions
asked he got back his watch and jewelry. He also got his pocket-book and papers, but not the
$200 that was in the book when he started out on his spree. In the intervals of the dance his
story has been told me as a sample of the nightly occurrence.

"What is this that has come out for a song? It has the form of a young man, but the simpering
silliness of a school girl. Half idiot, it jabbers out a lot of words that can not be understood,
but which are wildly applauded by the crowd on the floor, who 'pat juba' while the creature
dances. The girl who has been hanging around me to get a quarter, whispers something like 'Oh,
the beast!' in my ear. I hear the other girls uttering similar remarks and epithets. So I look
closer at the young man on the floor--for young man it is. He has a long head and smooth face,
with a deathly white pallor over it, big mouth and lips as thick as a negro, a conical shaped
forehead, and eyes that glitter with excitement like a courtesan's, but from which at times
all signs of intelligence have apparently fled. He has a companion whose general appearance
is like his own, but whose head is large and round, with a high forehead and full moon face.
Who are they? Well, they are part of Billy McGlory's outfit, and that is all I can say about
them. There are four more of them in female dress, who have been serving drinks to the customers
at the tables, all the while leering at the men and practicing the arts of the basest of women.

"Some of my companions have been drawn into one of the little boxes adjoining ours. They come
back now to tell of what depravity was exhibited to them for a fee. 'Great heavens!' exclaims
one of them. 'I feel sick. Get me out of this if you can. It is damnable.' No wonder they are
sick. The sights they have seen would sicken all humanity. Editor Stead, of London, could find
a bonanza every night for a week right here in New-York City at Billy McGlory's Assembly Hall.
'Hist!' says our guide. We look up and find three or four toughs around. They do not allow
any adverse criticisms to be passed aloud at Billy's. If you begin to talk aloud what you think,
out you go. There have been more round dances. There has been more indifferent singing and
some clog dancing. It is getting late. The fumes of tobacco and of stale beer are stifling.
Four-fifths of the men have not moved from the tables since we came in. Here and there one
is lopped over asleep. But the waiter in female clothing comes along to wake him up and induce
him to order more beer. Your glass must always be before you if you want to stay at McGlory's.

"'What are they all waiting for?' I ask. But no one will tell me. Across the balcony a girl
is hugging her fellow in a maudlin and hysterical manner. Another girl is hanging with her
arms around the neck of one of the creatures I described some time ago. She is pressing her
lips to his as if in ecstasy. He takes it all as a matter of course, like an indifferent young
husband after the honeymoon is over. His companion joins him--the moon-faced fellow--and they
come around to our box and ogle us. They talk in simpering, dudish tones, and bestow the most
lackadaisical glances on different members of our party. The girls shrink back as if contamination
itself had come among them. 'We are pretty hard,' says one of them, 'but not so hard as they.'

