We are just beginning to realize in the United States that we cannot spend all our annual earnings
on living expenses and still have a surplus for fresh capital for new industrial enterprises.
We are on the point of perceiving that we are cramping and stunting the future industrial expansion
of the country by our personal extravagance. We shall soon really believe Mr. James J. Hill
when he says that "every dollar unprofitably spent is a crime against posterity."

When international industrial competition reaches its climax, that nation will have an advantage
whose people feel most keenly that the wise expenditure of income is a patriotic as well as
a personal duty.

But is this a matter for women alone? Do not men also consume? Are there no vats in Milwaukee,
no stills in Kentucky, no factories wrapping paper-rings around bunches of dead leaves at Tampa?
Are there no men's tailors, gents' furnishing shops, luncheons, clubs, banquets, athletics,
celebrations? And as for home expenditures themselves, is the man simply to bring the plunder
to the door, get patted on the head, and trot off in search of more plunder? We must doubt
if economy will be reached by such a route. We find ourselves agreeing rather with the Home
Economics lecturer who said: "There never yet was a family income really wisely expended without
cooperation in all matters between husband and wife."

The Massachusetts legislature has passed a law looking toward the teaching of Thrift in the
public schools. Boys and girls need it equally. And we venture to surmise that in so far as
the new art and science of Consumption is concerned with wise spending, the bulk of its teachings
ultimately will be enjoyed by both sexes. It will not be, to any great extent, a specialized
education for women.

So much for the "Money Sense in Expenditure" which a full Home Economics course adds to "academic"
education. The more we admit its value, the more convinced we must be that it ought to include
every kind of expenditure and both kinds of human being.

A precisely similar conviction arises with regard to those "domestic applications of the physical
and sociological sciences" which a full Home Economics course adds to an "academic" education.

Those "domestic" applications are most of them broadly "human" applications. They bear on daily
living, exercise, fresh air, personal cleanliness, diet, sleep, the avoidance of contagion,
methods of fighting off disease, general physical efficiency. They all amount to what Mrs.
Ellen H. Richards calls Right Living. She would have four R's instead of three: Reading, Riting,
Rithmetic, and Right Living.

Now is Right Living to be only for girls?

Mr. Eliot of Harvard does not think so. In a recent "Survey of the Needs of Education," he said:

"Public instruction in preventive medicine must be provided for all children and the hygienic
method of living must be taught in all schools. . . . To make this new knowledge and skill
a universal subject of instruction in our schools, colleges, and universities is by no means
impossible--indeed, it would not even be difficult, for it is a subject full of natural history
as well as social interest. . . . American schools of every sort ought to provide systematic
instruction on public and private hygiene, diet, sex hygiene, and the prevention of disease
and premature death, not only because these subjects profoundly affect human affections and
public happiness, but because they are of high economic importance."

A large part of Home Economics is simply Living Conditions. It is simply the lessons of Bacteriology,
Chemistry, Physiology, and Sociology about the common facts of daily physical and social existence.

It may very well be, therefore, that what Mr. Eliot had in mind will not only come to pass
but will even exceed his expectations. It may very well be that the educational policy of the
future was correctly search-lighted by Miss Henrietta I. Goodrich (who used to direct the Boston
School of Housekeeping before it was merged into Simmons College) when she said:

"We need to have courage to break the present courses in household arts and domestic science
into their component parts and begin again on the much broader basis of a study of living conditions.
Our plea would be this: that instruction in the facts of daily living be incorporated in the
state's educational system from the primary grades through the graduate departments of the
universities, with a rank equal to that of any subject that is taught, AS REQUIRED WORK FOR
BOTH BOYS AND GIRLS."

We revert now finally to the "manual arts" which a full course in Home Economics adds to an
"academic" education. In this matter, just as in the matter of Money Sense in Expenditure and
in the matter of Right Living, we observe that the ultimate issue of the movement is not so
much a specialized education for women as a practical efficiency in the common things of life
for men and women both.

A reasonable proficiency in manual arts will some day be the heritage of all educated people.
Mr. Eliot, in his "Survey of the Needs of Education," speaks appreciatingly of his father's
having caused him to learn carpentry and wood-turning. He goes on to say:

"This I hold to be the great need of education in the United States--the devoting of a much
larger proportion of the total school time to the training of the eye, ear, and hand." 

It follows, then, that cooking and sewing for girls in the elementary schools must be made
just as rigorous a discipline for eye and hand as wood-working is for boys. It even follows
that boys and girls will often get their manual training together.

It will not be a case of "household drudgery" for the girls while the boys are studying civics.

Somewhere in this article (and as close to this paragraph as we can get the Art Director to
put it) the reader will find a picture of the "living room" of the "model" house of the Washington-Allston
Elementary School in Boston. The boys and girls of graduating grade in that school give four
hours a week to matters connected with the welfare of that house. They have furnished it throughout
with their own handiwork, the girls making pillow-cases, wall-coverings, window-curtains, etc.,
and the boys making chairs, tables, cupboards, etc. Succeeding classes will furnish it again.
THE REASON WHY MR. CRAWFORD, THE MASTER OF THE SCHOOL, CHOSE TO HAVE A HOUSE FOR A MANUAL TRAINING
LABORATORY WAS SIMPLY THAT A HOUSE OFFERS AMPLER OPPORTUNITIES THAN ANY OTHER KIND OF PLACE
FOR INSTRUCTION IN THE PRACTICAL EFFICIENCIES OF DAILY LIVING FOR BOTH SEXES.

The system will be complete when the girls get a bigger training in design by making more of
the chairs, and when the boys get a bigger training in diet by doing more of the cooking.

IV

LAST month's article ended with the inquiry whether the new education for homemaking would
clash seriously with the modern young woman's necessary education for money-earning. We conclude
that it will not.

Such developments as the long, specialized, four-year course in Household Economics at Simmons
College in Boston are not here in point. That Simmons course is more than an education for
home-making. It is an education for earning money by teaching home-making or by becoming (among
other things) a dietitian in a hospital, or a manager of a lunch-room, or an interior decorator.

Our subject is not Home Economics as a money-earning occupation for a few women, but Home Economics
as part of the education of all women.

In that aspect it does not seem likely to result in any "special feminine education" of such
bulk as to withdraw women, in any serious degree, from the general education of the race. This
is undeniably true, provided our observations have been correct that----

1. Home Economics is at heart Consumption, and must be so because the home woman is more and
more purely a consumer.

2. Consumption is the broadest of generalities, requiring the broadest of liberal educations.

3. So far as manual arts are concerned, the "non-academic" cookery of the girl is balanced
by the "non-academic" carpentry of the boy.

4. Right Living and Wise Spending will, to a great extent, get diffused throughout the whole
educational system for boys and girls, men and women, alike.

If there remains (and there does remain) certain further specialization which the average girl
needs in order to be a good wife, mother, and home-maker, she will get it in "finishing courses"
furnished at the various levels of the educational system, when she leaves school, or else
(better still) she will get it in "continuation schools" for adults to which she may resort
when she is actually going to be a wife, mother, or home-maker.

Why learn really technical specialized things years and years before they are needed? Why learn
them at a time when it is not certain that they will be needed at all?

The modern postponement of marriage is here a controlling element.

The fact that in Boston, among women from thirty to thirty-four years of age, 297 out of every
1,000 (more than a quarter) are still unmarried is usually put down to a scarcity of men. That
scarcity is exaggerated.

Observe the comparative numbers of unmarried women and of unmarried men in that age-period
in Boston:

      Unmarried Women            8,081       
      Unmarried Men             10,651.

Observe further:

The total number of men of all conjugal conditions in the age-period in question is 28,603.

A little work with pencil and paper will now still further weaken the scarcity theory by revealing
the fact that in Boston, among men from thirty to thirty-four years of age, 372 out of every
1,000 are still single. 

Social conditions in rural communities tend to approach those of urban communities. Social
conditions in the West tend to approach those in the East. Boston is not eccentric. It is only
ahead.

"Continuation School" instruction in Home Economics for engaged and married women is a form
of education beginning to appear in every part of the world.

But it lies beyond the woman's period of money-earning. How long is that period? And what are
the social and racial consequences of the fact that (speaking generally) the more highly prepared
modern men and women are to transmit intelligence to posterity, the more steadily do they tend
to give their most vigorous years to singleness?

----I'LL NIVER GO HOME AGAIN!

By ARTHUR STRINGER

I'll niver go home again,
    Home to the ould sad hills,
 Home through the ould soft rain,
    Where the curlew calls and thrills!

For I thought to find the ould wee house,
    Wid the moss along the wall!
 And I thought to hear the crackle-grouse,
    And the brae-birds call!

And I sez, I'll find the glad wee burn,
    And the bracken in the glen,
 And the fairy-thorn beyont the turn,
    And the same ould men!

But the ways I'd loved and walked, avick,
    Were no more home to me,
 Wid their sthreets and turns av starin' brick,
    And no ould face to see!

And the ould glad ways I'd helt in mind,
    Loike the home av Moira Bawn,
 And the ould green turns I'd dreamt to find,
    They all were lost and gone!

And the bairns that romped by Tullagh Burn
    Whin they saw me sthopped their play--
 Through a mist av tears I tried to turn
    And ghost-like creep away!

And I'll niver go home again!
    Home to the ould lost years,
 Home where the soft warm rain
    Drifts loike the drip av tears!

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  October 1910   No. 4

THE WOMEN OF TO-MORROW  {page 486-496 part 3.}

By

WILLIAM HARD

III   LOVE DEFERRED

Mary felt she would wait for John even if, instead of going away on a career, he were going
away on a comet.

She waited for him from the time she was twenty-two to the time she was twenty-six, and would
have waited longer if she hadn't got angry and insisted on marrying him.

Into why she waited, and why she wouldn't wait any longer, chance put most of the simple plot
of the commonplace modern drama, "Love Deferred." It is so commonplace that it is doubtful
if any other drama can so stretch the nerves or can so draw from them a thin, high note of
fine pain.

We will pretend that John was a doctor. No, that's too professional. He was a civil engineer.
That's professional enough and more commercial. It combines Technique and Business, which are
the two big elements in the life of Modern Man.

When they got engaged, Mary was through college, but John had one more year to go in engineering
school.

How the preparation for life does lengthen itself out!

When Judge Story was professor at Harvard in the thirties of the last century, he put the law
into his pupils' heads in eighteen months. The present professors require three years.

In 1870 the Harvard Medical School made you attend classes for four months in each of three
years. It now makes you do it for nine months in each of four years.

As for engineering, the University of Wisconsin gave John a chill by informing him in its catalogue
that "it is coming to be generally recognized that a four-year technical course following the
high-school course is not an adequate preparation for those who are to fill important positions;
and the University would urge all those who can afford the time to extend their studies over
a period of five or six years."

John compromised on five. This gave him a few Business courses in the College of Commerce in
addition to his regular Technique courses in the College of Engineering. He was now a Bachelor
of Science.

He thereupon became an apprentice in the shops of one of the two biggest electrical firms in
the United States. He inspected the assembling of machines before they were shipped, and he
overheard wisdom from foremen and superintendents. His salary was fifteen cents an hour. Since
he worked about ten hours a day, his total income was about forty dollars a month. At the end
of the year he was raised to fifty. This was the normal raise for a Bachelor of Science.

The graduates of Yale and Harvard in the bright colonial days of those institutions married
almost immediately on graduation. John didn't. He didn't get married so early nor become a
widower so often. He didn't carry so many children to the christening font nor so many to the
cemetery.

Look at the dark as well as the bright side of colonial days.

Pick out any of the early Harvard classes. Honestly and truly at random, run your finger down
the column and pick any class. The class of 1671!

It had eleven graduates. One of them remained a bachelor. Don't be too severe on him. He died
at twenty-four. Of the remaining ten, four were married twice and two were married three times.
For ten husbands, therefore, there were eighteen wives.

Mr. G. Stanley Hall, President of Clark University, very competently remarks: "The problem
of superfluous women did not exist in those days. They were all needed to bring up another
woman's children."

The ten husbands of the Harvard class of 1671, with their eighteen wives, had seventy-one children.
They did replenish the earth. They also filled the churchyards.

TWENTY-ONE OF THOSE SEVENTY-ONE CHILDREN DIED IN CHILDHOOD.

This left fifty to grow up. It was an average of five surviving children for each of the ten
fathers. But it was an average of only 2.7 for each of the eighteen mothers.

In commending the colonial family one must make an offset for the unfair frequency with which
it had more than one wife-and-mother to help out its fertility record. And in commending the
era of young wives and numerous children one must make an offset for the hideous frequency
with which it killed them.

Turn from Harvard to Yale. Look at the men who graduated from 1701 to 1745.

The girls they took in marriage were most of them under twenty-one and were many of them down
in their 'teens, sometimes as far down as fourteen.

May we observe that they were not taken in marriage out of a conscious sense of duty to the
Commonwealth and to Population? They were taken because they were needed. The colonial gentleman
had to have his soap-kettles and candle-molds and looms and smokehouses and salting-tubs and
spinning-wheels and other industrial machines operated for him by somebody, if he was going
to get his food and clothes and other necessaries cheap. He lost money if he wasn't domestic.
He was domestic.

Our young engineering friend, John, when HE looked forward to HIS future domestic establishment,
saw no industrial machines in it at all except a needle and a saucepan. Consequently he had
very little real use for a wife. What he wanted was money enough to "give" Mary a home.

Marriages are more uncertain now. And fewer of them are marriages of mere convenience. It is
both a worse and a better state of things. On the one hand, John didn't marry Mary so soon.
On the other hand, he was prevented from wanting anything in his marriage except just Mary.

The enormous utility of the colonial wife, issuing in enormous toil (complicated by unlimited
childbearing), had this kind of result:

Among the wives of the 418 Yale husbands of the period from 1701 to 1745, there were

Thirty-three who died before they were twenty-five years old;

Fifty-five who died before they were thirty-five years old;

Fifty-nine who died before they were forty-five years old.

Those 418 Yale husbands lost 147 wives before full middle age.  It ceases, therefore, to be
surprising, though it remains unabatedly sickening, that the stories of the careers of colonial
college men, of the best-bred men of the times, are filled with such details as:

"----First wife died at twenty-four, leaving six children."

"----Eight children born within twelve years, two of them feeble-minded."

"----First wife died at nineteen, leaving three children.

"----Fourteen children. First wife died at twenty-eight, having borne eight children in ten years."

From that age of universal early marrying and of promiscuous early dying we have come in two
centuries to an age of delayed (and even omitted) marrying and of a settled determination to
keep on living.

The women's colleges are so new and they attracted in their early days so un-average a sort
of girl that their records are not conclusive. Nevertheless, here are some guiding facts from
Smith College, of Northampton, Massachusetts:

--> We are taking college facts not because this article is confined in any respect to college
people but merely because the matrimonial histories in the records of the colleges are the
most complete we know of.)

In 1888, Smith College, in its first ten classes, had graduated 370 women.

In 1903, fifteen years later, among those 370 women there were 212 who were still single.

This record does not satisfy Mr. G. Stanley Hall, who figured it out. The remaining facts,
however, might be considered more cheering:

The 158 Smith women who had married had borne 315 children. This was two for each of them.
And most of them were still in their childbearing period. Compare this with the colonial records.
But don't take the number of children per colonial father. Be fair. Take it per mother.

We have the matrimonial histories of colonial Yale and Harvard men grouped and averaged according
to the decade in which they graduated. We will regard the graduates of each decade as together
constituting one case.

In no case does the average number of children per wife go higher than 3.89. In one case it
goes as low as 2.98.

Perhaps the modern wife's habit of going on living and thereby protracting her period of childbearing
will in time cause her fertility record to compare not unfavorably with that of the colonial
wife, who made an early start but a quick finish.

In the year 1903, among all the 370 Smith graduates in those first ten classes, only twenty-four
had died. And among all the 315 children, only twenty-six had died. On the whole, between being
the wife of a Yale or Harvard colonial graduate and being a member of one of the first ten
Smith classes, a modern girl might conclude that the chances of being a dead one matrimonially
in the latter case would be more than offset by the chances of being a dead one actually in
the former.

This deplorable flippancy would overlook the serious fact that permanent or even prolonged
celibacy on the part of large numbers of young men and young women is a great social evil.
The consequences of that evil we shall observe later on.[1]

[1] In speaking about celibacy we refer wholly to secular and not at all to religious celibacy.

In the meantime we return to John and Mary.

While John was doing his last year in engineering school, Mary did a year of technical study
in the New York School of Philanthropy, or in the St. Louis School of Social Economy, or in
the Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy, or in the Boston School for Social Workers.

They won't even let you start in "doing good" nowadays without some training for it. This is
wise, considering how much harm doing good can do.

But how the preparation for life does lengthen itself out!

Mary took a civil service examination and got a job with the State Bureau of Labor. She finished
her first year with the Bureau at the same time when John finished his first year with the
electrical firm. She had earned $600. He had earned $480.

There were several hundred other apprentices in the shops along with John. When he thought
of the next year's work at fifty a month and when he looked at the horde of competing Bachelors
of Science in which he was pocketed, he whitened a bit.

"I must get out of the ruck," he said to himself. "I must get a specialty. I must do some more
preparing.

He began to perceive how long it takes the modern man to grow up, intellectually and financially.
He began to perceive what a tedious road he must travel before he could arrive at maturity--and
Mary!

But he had pluck. "I'll really prepare," he said, "and then I'll really make good."

A western university offered a scholarship of $500 a year, the holder of which would be free
to devote himself to a certain specified technical subject. John tried for the scholarship
and got it, and spent a year chasing electrical currents from the time when they left the wheels
of street cars to the time when they eventually sneaked back home again into the power-house,
after having sported clandestinely along gas mains and water pipes, biting holes into them
as they went.

It was a good subject, commercially. At the end of the year he was engaged as engineer by a
street-car company which was being sued by a gas company for allowing its current to eat the
gas company's property. He was to have a salary of $1,000 a year. He was going strong.

One thousand dollars! Millions of married couples live on less than that. But John didn't even
think of asking Mary to share it with him.

Mary, when married, was to be supported in approximate accordance with the standards of the
people John knew. Every John thinks that about it, without really thinking about it at all.
It's just in him.

It bothered Mary. How much money would John want to spend on her before he would take her?
It made her feel like a box of candy in a store window.

Still, a social standard is a fact. Just as much so as if it could be laid off with a tape.
And there is sense in it.

"After all," thought Mary, "if we had only $1,000 a year we couldn't live where any of our
friends do, and John would be cut off from being on daily intimate terms with people who could
help him; and if we had children--Well, there you are! We surely couldn't give our children
what our children ought to have. That settles it."

The influence of social standards is greatly increased and complicated in a world in which
women earn their living before marriage and have a chance to make social standards of their
own in place of the ones they were born to.

We here insert a few notes on cases which are not compositely imagined--like Mary and John--but
are individually (though typically) existent in real life in one of the large American cities:

R----J----. Makes $6,500 a year. Only man she was ever "real sweet on" was a teamster. When
she was selling in the perfumes at five a week he used to take her to the picnics of the Social
Dozen Pleasure Club. They would practice the Denver Lurch on Professor DeVere's dancing platform.
At midnight he would give her a joy-ride home in his employer's delivery wagon. He still drives
that wagon. She is in charge of suits and costumes and has several assistant buyers under her.
She has bought a cottage for her father, who is an ingrain weaver in a carpet factory. She
wears a stick-pin recently presented to her by her teamster. "I like him all right," is her
notion about it, "but I ought to have took him ten years ago. Now he can't support me."

S----V----. Makes twelve dollars a week as a manicurist. Thinks a man ought to have at least
thirty dollars a week before marrying.

T----V----. Sister of S----V----, who doesn't think much of her. She works in a paper-box factory
at five dollars a week and is engaged to a glove cutter who makes eleven.

T----A----. Saleswoman. Thinks women ought to be paid as much as men. "Then they wouldn't be
so ready to marry ANYBODY." Works in the cloak department. Is a star. Makes about eighteen
dollars a week. Says that most of the men she knows who could support her would certainly get
in a terrible row at home if they married a cloak-department girl. Families are stuck up. "But
I don't care; let it run awhile. Tell you something. I was born in the steerage. I've been
right where the money isn't. I'm not taking any chances on getting there again. Let Georgina
do it."

R----B----. Sub-bookkeeper. Seven dollars a week. Engaged to clerk who earns thirteen. Says:
"Of course I'm not earning much, but I'm living with my folks and when we're married I'll have
to give up a lot of things. Kinda wish I hadn't got used even to the seven."

This last case, of the bookkeeper engaged to the clerk, is the modern situation at its happiest
normal. The modern marriage, except among the rich, is a contraction of resources. It is just
the reverse, in that respect, of the colonial marriage.

The colonial bride, marrying into Industry, brought her full economic value to her husband.

The modern bride, marrying out of Industry, leaves most of her economic value behind. And the
greater that value was, the sharper is the shock of the contraction of resources.

Of course, the case of the department-store buyer and the teamster is irrelevantly extreme.
But aren't there thousands and thousands of cases which, while less advanced, are pointed in
the same direction? The more a woman earns, the fewer become the men who can support her. How
can the clerk support the cloak saleswoman who has had eighteen dollars a week of her own?
How can the barber support the manicurist who has had twelve?

The cloak saleswoman may talk flippantly about it, but, at heart, isn't she seriously right?
She has pulled herself up to a certain level. Except in response to a grande passion she will
not again drop below it. She will bring up her children at a point as close to her present
level as she can. That is instinct.

Meanwhile, she isn't married. But what can you do about it? She went to work, like almost every
other working woman, because she had to. And you can't pass a law prohibiting her from earning
more than five dollars a week.

"It's all economic," thought Mary. "Nothing else." She had much reason for thinking so.

Did you ever see Meitzen's diagram showing the relation between the price of rye and the number
of marriages in Prussia during a period of twenty-five years?

Cheap rye, easy living conditions--number of marriages rises. Dear rye, hard living conditions--number
of marriages drops. The  fluctuations are strictly proportional. In the twenty-sixth year,
given the price of rye, you could predict very closely the number of marriages.

It's like suicides. It's the easiest thing in the world to predict the number of men and women
who will next year "decide" to take their own lives.

The marriage rate responds not only to the economic conditions of a whole country but to the
economic conditions of its various parts.

You live in Vermont. Very well. Between the ages of twenty-five and thirty in Vermont, there
will be 279 out of every 1,000 of you who will still be single.

But you live in the state of New York. Very well. Between the ages of twenty-five and thirty
there will be 430 of you out of every thousand who will still be single.

In Vermont, 279. In New York, 430. A difference of 151 in every 1,000.

For those 151 persons, is it human volition? Is it a perverse aversion to the other sex?

Even at that, on the face of it, those who try to argue New Yorkers into marrying young are
clearly taking the difficult route to their purpose. It would be more adroit simply to urge
them to live in Vermont.

But isn't the real reason this--that New York, with its large cities, is farther removed than
Vermont, with no large cities, from the primitive industrial conditions of colonial times?

The North Atlantic states, as a whole, are industrially more advanced than the South Central
states. Compare them in this marriage matter:

Among all the wives in the South Central states, there are 543 out of every 1,000 who are under
thirty-five years of age.

Among all the wives in the North Atlantic states those who are under thirty-five years of age
are, in each thousand, only 428.

In the South Central states, 543. In the North Atlantic states, 428. A difference of 115!

Getting married early is imputed unto us for actual personal righteousness by innumerable clergymen,
essayists, and editorial writers. Are there so many more righteous women along the Gulf of
Mexico than along the Atlantic coast? One hundred and fifteen more out of every thousand? We
cannot quite credit so great a discrepancy in relative human virtue.

You can't escape, in any numbers, from the law which reigns in your vicinity.

Live on the Gold Coast of Africa. When you're thirteen, if you're a girl, they'll boil a yam
and mash it and mix it with palm oil and scatter it on the banks of the stream and wash you
in the stream and streak your body with white clay in fine lines and lead you down the street
under an umbrella and announce your readiness to be a bride. Which you will be in a day or two.

Live in Russia, and if you're a girl you'll get married before you're twenty in more than fifty
cases out of a hundred. It's the most primitive of civilized countries. It's half way between
Africa and, say, Rhode Island.

These marriages before twenty tend to fall off rapidly in a rapidly developing industrial region
like Rhode Island.

In 1860 the married persons in Rhode Island who had married before they were twenty were twenty-one
in every 100.

In 1900 they were only nine in every 100.

A drop from twenty-one to nine in forty years!

