In the same way and by virtue of the same sovereignty, the people of the United States may
lay aside the common method of indicating their pleasure to the Executive, and substitute one
more in consonance with the requirements of the times. They may make known that they do lay
aside an established mode, either by a formal notice or by a general tacit understanding, as
the exigencies of the case require. They may recognize the right, aye, the duty of the Executive
to act in accordance with other methods than those prescribed for ordinary seasons, in cases
where the national security demands this.

But this is not an abandonment of the methods and forms of law! This is not the establishment
of an arbitrary government! This is not passing from freedom to despotism! The people of this
country are sovereign, let it be repeated. So long as its Government is conducted as its people
or as the majority of them wish, it is conducted in accordance with its established principle.
There were no freedom if the vital spirit of liberty were to be held in bondage to the dead
forms of powerless or obsolete prescriptions in the very crisis of the nation's death struggle!
Freedom means freedom to act, in all cases and under all circumstances, so as to secure the
highest individual and national well-being. It does not mean freedom to establish certain codes
of procedure under certain regulations, and to be forever bound under these when the preservation
of liberty itself demands their temporary abeyance. So long as the Government fulfils the wishes
of the people, it is not arbitrary, it is not despotic, no matter what methods an emergency
may require it to adopt for this purpose, or in what manner it ascertains these wishes; provided
always that the methods adopted and the modes of ascertainment are also in accordance with
the people's desires.

But how is the Executive to discover the will of the people if he does not wait for its formal
expression? How is he to be sure that he does not outrun their desires? How is he to be checked
and punished, should he do so? Precisely the same law must apply here as has been indicated
to be the true one in reference to the fulfilment of the people's behest. Fixed, definite,
precise, formal expressions of popular will, when time is wanting for these, must be replaced
by those which are more quickly ascertained and less systematically expressed. The Executive
must forecast the general desire and forestall its commands, regarding the tacit acceptance
of the people or their informal laws, such as resolutions, conventions, and various modes of
expressing popular accord or dissent, as indications of the course which they approve. Nor
is this an anomaly in our legal system. The citizen ordinarily is not at liberty to take the
law into his own hands; he must appeal to the constituted authorities, and through the machinery
of a law court obtain his redress or protection. But there are times when contingencies arise
in which more wrong would be done by such delay than by a summary process transcending the
customary law. The man who sees a child, a woman, or even an animal treated with cruelty, does
not wait to secure protection for the injured party by the common methods of legal procedure,
but, on the instant, prevents, with blows if need be, the outrage. He oversteps the forms of
law to secure the ends of law, and rests in the consciousness that the law itself will accept
his action. When the case is more desperate, his usurpation of power generally prohibited to
him is still greater, up to that last extremity in which he deliberately takes the whole law
into his own hands, and, acting as accuser, witness, judge, executioner, slays the individual
who assaults him with deadly weapons or with hostile intent.

In this case now stands the nation. Along her borders flashes the steel of hostile armies,
their cannon thunder almost in hearing of our capitol, their horses but recently trampled the
soil of neighboring States. A deadly enemy is trying to get its gripe upon the republic's throat
and its knife into her heart. The nation must act as an individual would under similar circumstances;
and the nation must act through its Executive. If one person, attacked by another, should snatch
from the hands of a passer his cane, in order to defend his life; if, in his struggles with
his assailant, he should strike a second through misconception, how immeasurably ridiculous
would be the action of these individuals, should they, while the death struggle were still
raging, berate the man, one for breaking the law by taking away his cane, and the other for
breaking the law by the commission of a battery! Every man feels instinctively that in such
a crisis all weapons of defence are at his disposal, and that he takes them, not in violation
of law, but in obedience to the law of extraordinary contingencies, which every community adopts,
but which no community can inscribe upon its statute book, because it is the law of contingencies.

The Executive of this, as of every country, resorts to this law when, in the nature of things,
the statute law is inadequate. In doing this, he does not violate law; he only adopts another
kind of law. A subtle, delicate law, indeed, which can neither be inscribed among the enactments,
nor exactly defined, circumscribed, or expressed. When it is to be substituted for the ordinary
modes of legal procedure, how far it is to be used, when its use must cease--these are questions
which the people, as the sole final arbiters, must decide. As the individual in society must
judge wisely when the community will sanction his use of the contingent law, the law of private
military power, so to speak, in his own behalf; so must the Executive judge when the urgency
of the national defence demands the exercise of the summary power in the place of more technical
methods. If the public sentiment of the community sustain the individual, it is an indorsement
that he acted justifiably in accordance with this exceptional law; if it do not, he is liable
for an unwarranted usurpation of power. The Executive stands in the same relation to the nation.
The Mohammedans relate that the road to heaven is two miles long, stretching over a fathomless
abyss, the only pathway across which is narrower than a razor's edge. Delicately balanced must
be the body which goes over in safety! The intangible path which the Executive must walk to
meet the people's wishes on the one side, and to avoid their fears upon the other, in the national
peril, is narrower than the Mahommedan's road to heaven, and cautiously bold must be the feet
that safely tread it! Blessed shall that man be who succeeds in crossing. The nations shall
rise up and call him blessed, and succeeding generations shall praise him.

We come then to the relations of the press and the Executive. We have seen that all liberty
is relative, and not absolute; that the people, the sovereigns in this country, have prescribed
certain methods for securing, in ordinary periods, those blessings which it is their desire
to enjoy; that when, under special contingencies, these methods become insufficient for this
purpose, the people may, in virtue of their sovereignty, suspend them and adopt others adequate
to the occasion; that these may not, indeed, from their very nature, cannot be of a fixed and
circumscribed kind, but must give large discretionary power into the hands of the Executive,
to be used by him in a summary manner as contingencies may indicate; that this abrogation or
suspension, for the time, of so much of the ordinary civil law, in favor of the contingent
law, is not an abandonment of free government for arbitary or despotic government, because
it is still in accordance with the will of the people, and hence is merely the substitution
of a new form of law, which, being required for occasions when instant action is demanded,
is necessarily summary in its character; that the extent to which this law is to be substituted
for the ordinary one is to be discovered by the Executive from the general sense of the nation,
when it cannot be made known through the common method of the ballot box and the legislature;
that in the people resides the power ultimately to determine whether their wishes have been
correctly interpreted or not; and, finally, that the Executive is equally responsible for coming
short of the behests of the nation in the use of the contingent law or for transgressing the
boundaries within which they desire him to constrain his actions.

The press of the United States has always been free to the extent that it might publish whatsoever
it listed, within certain limits prescribed by the law. The press may still do this. But the
nature of the law which prescribes the limits has changed with the times. The constituted authorities
of the people of the United States are obliged now, in the people's interest, to employ the
processes of summary rather than those of routine law. Hence when the press infringes too violently
the boundaries indicated, and persists in so doing, the sterner penalty demanded by the dangers
of the hour is enforced by the sterner method likewise rendered necessary. So long as Executive
action concerning the press shall be in accordance with the general sentiment of the people,
it will be within the strict scope of the highest law of the land. Should the Executive persistently
exercise this summary law in a manner not countenanced by the nation, he is amenable to it
under the strict letter of the Constitution for high crimes or misdemeanors, not the least
of which would be the usurpation of powers not delegated to him by the people.

The Executive of the United States occupies at this time an exceedingly trying and dangerous
position, which demands for him the cordial, patient, and delicate consideration of the American
nation. He is placed in a situation where the very existence of the republic requires that
he use powers not technically delegated to him, and in which the people expect, yea, demand
him, to adopt methods transcending the strict letter of statute law, the use of which powers
and the adoption of which methods would be denounced as the worst of crimes, even made the
basis of an impeachment, should the mass of the populace be dissatisfied with his proceedings.
It is easy to find fault, easy in positions devoid of public responsibility to think we see
how errors might have been avoided, how powers might have been more successfully employed and
greater results achieved. But the American Executive is surrounded with difficulties too little
appreciated by the public, while an almost merciless criticism, emanating both from injudicious
friends and vigilant foes, follows his every action. Criticism should not be relaxed; but it
should be exercised by those only who are competent to undertake its office. The perusal of
the morning paper does not ordinarily put us in possession of sufficient information to enable
us to understand, in all their bearings, the measures of the Government. Something more is
required than a reading of the accounts of battles furnished by the correspondents of the press
to entitle one to express an opinion on military movements. It should not be forgotten that
the officers engaged in the army of the United States are better judges of military affairs
than civilians at home; that the proceedings of the Government, with rare exceptions, possibly,
are based upon a fuller knowledge of all the facts relating to a special case, than is obtained
by private persons, and that its judgment is therefore more likely to be correct, in any given
instance, than our own. The injury done to the national cause by the persistent animadversion
of well-intentioned men, who cannot conceive that their judgments may perchance be incorrect,
is scarcely less, than the openly hostile invective of the friends of the South. The intelligent
citizens of the North, especially those who occupy prominent positions as teachers and instructors
of the people through the press, the pulpit, and other avenues, should ever be mindful that
the political liberty which they possess of free thought and free speech, has imposed upon
them the moral duty of using this wisely for the welfare of humanity, and that they cannot
be faithless to this obligation without injuring their fellow men and incurring a heavy moral
guilt.

THE BROTHERS.

AN ALLEGORY. In evidence of His care, He sent, from time to time, gifted spirits among men
to aid them in developing and elevating the souls so fallen from their primal innocence. These
spirits He clad in sensuous bodies, that they might be prepared to enter the far country of
Human Life. Earth was rapidly falling under the merciless rule of a hopeless and crushing materialism,
when He determined upon sending among men, Anselm, the saint; Angelo, the tone artist; Zophiel,
the poet; and Jemschid, the painter. The spirits murmured not, although they knew they were
to relinquish their heaven life for that torment of perpetual struggle which the forbidden
knowledge of Good and Evil has entailed upon all incarcerated in a human form.

  For self-abnegation is the law of heaven!

       *       *       *       *       *

'Brothers,' said the merciful Father, 'go, and sin not, for of all things that pass among men
must a strict account be rendered. For are not their evil deeds written upon the eternally
living memory of a just God? Evil lurks in the land of your exile; it may find its way into
your own hearts, for you are to become wholly human, and to lose for a time the memory of your
home in heaven. But even in that far country you will find the Book of Life, which I have given
for the guidance and consolation of the fallen. For it is known even there that 'God is Love!''

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the journey of the Heaven Brothers began through the blinding clouds and trailing mists
of chaos, in whose palpable gloom all memories are obliterated. Naked, trembling, and human,
they arrived upon the shifting sands of the world of Time and Death.

A vague, shadowy sense, like a forgotten dream which we struggle vainly to recall, often flitted
through their clay-clogged souls, of a strangely glorious life in some higher sphere; but all
attempts to give definite form to such bewildering visions ended but in fantastic reveries
of mystic possibilities or dim yearnings of unseen glories. They found the Book of Life, but
they remembered not that the Father had told them the Word was His.

For the thread of Identity, on which are strung the pearls of Memory, in the passage through
chaos had snapped in twain!

       *       *       *       *       *

Like the silver light through the storm clouds flitting over the fair face of the moon, gleam
the antenatal splendors through the gloom of the earth life.

As Anselm wonderingly turned the pages of the Book of Life, strange memories awoke within him.
So inextricably were the dreams of his past woven with the burning visions of the Prophets,
that the darkness of Revelation, like the heaven vault at midnight, was illumined by the light
of distant worlds; his own vague reminiscences supplying the inner sense of the inspired but
mystic leaves. What wonder that he loved the Book, when in its descriptions of the life to
come, he felt the history of the life already past; and through its sternest threatenings,
like the rainbow girdling storm clouds, shone the promise of a blessed future!

He spent the hours of exile in a constant effort to commune with the Father; in humble prayer
and supplication for strength to resist the power of sin. For he feared the Evil which lurked
in the land. He examined the springs of his own actions, analyzed his motives, and tortured
himself lest any of the evils denounced in the Book should lurk in the folds of his own soul.
In contemplating the awful justice of the Father, he sometimes forgot that He is Love. He feared
close commune with the children of the earth, for Evil dwelt among them; he looked not into
the winecup, nor danced with the maidens under the caressing tendrils of the vine or the luxuriant
branches of the myrtle--nay, the rose cheek of the maiden was a terror to him, for lo! Evil
might lurk under its brilliant bloom. The Dread of Evil sapped the Joy of Life!

He turned from all the lovely Present, to catch faint traces of the dim Past, to picture the
unseen Future, about which it is vain to disquiet ourselves, since, like everything else, it
rests upon the heart of God! His life was holy, innocent, and self-sacrificing. He sought to
serve his fellow men, yet feared to give them his heart, lest he should rob the Father of His
just due. He knew not from his own experience that Love is infinite, and grows on what it gives.
He bore religious consolation to the afflicted, aid to the needy, sympathy to the suffering.
He was universally esteemed, but the spirit of his brethren broke not into joy at his approach,
for the trusting heart of genial humanity throbbed not in his sad breast. He was no Pharisee,
but he dined not with the Publican, and the precious ointment of the Magdalen never bathed
his weary head. Thou alone hast fully kept these two commandments!

'For wisdom is justified of her children!'

       *       *       *       *       *

Angelo, Zophiel, and Jemschid also resolved to avoid the Evil spoken of in the Book of Life.
But the far country into which the Father had sent them was lovely in their eyes, and they
were charmed with the Beauty with which He had surrounded them. They dreamed by the shady fountains,
with their silver flow and gentle ripples; roamed by the darker rivers as they hurry on to
plunge themselves into the sea; gazed on the restless ocean breakers when the dying sun fringes
their crest with rainbow hues, and the flushing sky, to cool her burning blushes, flings herself
into the heart of the restless waters. They loved to breathe the 'difficult air' of mountain
tops, so softly pillowed and curtained by the fleecy vapors, which they win again from heaven
in limpid streams, leading them in wild leaps through gloomy chasms fringed by timid harebells,
whose soft blue eyes look love upon the rocks, while the myriad forest leaves musically murmur
above their flinty couch. They watched the fitful shadow-dance of clouds over the green earth.
They loved to see these heaven tents where Beauty dwells chased by the young zephyrs, or, driven
on in heavy masses by the bolder winds, blush under the fiery glances of the sun, and melt
into the sky upon his nearer approach. Ah! these clouds and vapors had more than human tenderness,
for had they not seen them throng around the ghastly disc of the star-deserted moon, weaving
their light webs into flowing veils to shadow the majestic sorrow written upon her melancholy
but lovely face, shielding the mystic pallor of the virgin brow from the desecrating gaze of
the profane?

The three brothers were happy upon earth, for they looked into the heart of their fellow mortals,
and felt the genial feeling beating there; and so luxuriantly twined its vivid green around,
that the evil core was hidden from their charmed eyes, and they ceased not to bless the Father
for a gift so divine as Human Love! They could not weep and pray the long night through, as
did the saintly Anselm, for their eyes were fastened upon the wildering lustre of the thronging
stars as they wove their magic rings through the dim abysses of distant space, yet the incense
of constant praise rose from their happy souls to the Beauty-giving Father.

They struggled to awake the sleeping powers of men to a perception of the glories of creation;
to lead them 'through nature up to nature's God.' The Artist-Brothers were closely united in
feeling, striving through different mediums to refine the soul of man.

For the spirit of Beauty always awakens the spirit of Love, sent by God to elevate and consecrate
the heart of man!

       *       *       *       *       *

Of a more subtle genius and more daring spirit than Zophiel or Jemschid, Angelo boldly launched
into the bewildering chaos of the realm of sound. As yet the laws of the Acoustic Prism were
unknown; the seven-ranged ladder was all unformed, and without its aid it seemed impossible
to scale the ever-renewing heights, to sound the ever-growing depths of this enchanted kingdom.
But Angelo was a bold adventurer. Haunted by the heaven sounds, vague memories of his antenatal
existence, although he had entirely lost the meaning of their flow, as one may recall snatches
of the melody of a song when he cannot remember one of its words--he commenced his subtle task.
He resolved the Acoustic Prism; he built the seven-runged ladder; he charmed the wandering
Tones, and bound them in the holy laws of Rhythm. Divining the hidden secrets of their affiliations,
relations, loves, and hates, he wrought them into gorgeous webs of harmonics, to clothe the
tender but fiery soul of ever-living melodies. Soothing their jarring dissonances into sweet
accord, he filled their pining wails with that 'divine sorrow,' that mystic longing for the
Infinite, which is the inner voice of every created heart. If he could not find the heaven
sense of the tones, he found their earthly meaning, and caused them to repeat or suggest every
joy and sorrow of which our nature is capable. He forced the heaven tongue to become human,
while it retained its divine. Without a model or external archetype, he formed his realm and
divined its changing limits; wide enough to contain all that is noble, holy enough to exclude
all that is low or profane. He forever exorcised the spirits of Evil--the strong Demons of
materialism--from his rhythmed world. Flinging his spells on the unseen air, he forced it to
breathe his passion, his sighs; he saddened it with his tears, kindled it with his rapture,
until fired and charged with the electric breath of the soul, it glowed into an atmosphere
of Life, swaying at will the wild and restless heart. He created Music, the only universal
language, holding the keys of Memory, and wearing the crown of Hope. Angelo, strange architect
in that dim domain of chaos, thy creation, fleeting, invisible, and unembodied, is in perpetual,
flow; changeful as the play of clouds, yet stable as the eternal laws by which they form their
misty towers, their glittering fanes, and foam-crested pinnacles! Trackless as the wind, yet
as powerful, thy sweet spirit, Music, floats wherever beats the human heart, for Rhythm rocks
the core of life. Music nerves the soul with strength or dissolves it in love; she idealizes
Pain into soul-touching Beauty; assuming all garbs, robing herself in all modes, and moving
at ease through every phase of our complicated existence. White and glittering are her robes,
yet she is no aristocrat. She disdains not to soothe the weary negro in his chains, or to rock
the cradle of the child of shame, as the betrayed and forsaken girl murmurs broken-hearted
lullabies around the young 'inheritor of pain.' She is with the maiden in the graceful mazes
of the gay Mazourka; she inflames the savage in the barbaric clang of the fierce war-dance;
or marks the measured tramp of the drilled soldiery of civilization. She is in the court of
kings; she makes eloquent the ripe lip of the cultured beauty; she chants in the dreary cell
of the hermit; she lightens the dusty wallet of the wanderer. She glitters through the dreams
of the Poet; she breathes through the direst tragedies of noblest souls. On--on she floats
through the wide world, everywhere present, everywhere welcome, refining, and consecrating
our dull life from the Baptismal Font to the Grave!

All the inner processes of life are guarded by the hand of nature. In vain would the curiosity
of the scalpel knife invade the sanctuary of the beating heart to lay open the burning mystery
of Being. The outraged Life retreats before it to its last citadel, and the indignant heart,
upon its entrance, refuses to throb more. The citadel is taken; but the secret of Life is not
to be discovered in the kingdom of Death. It is because Music is essentially a living art that
we find it impossible to read the mystery of its being. If Painting touch us, we can always
trace the emotion to its exciting cause; if we weep over the pages of the Poet, it is because
we find our own blighted hopes imaged there. But why does Music sway us? Where did we learn
that language without words? in what consists its mystic affinities with our spirits? Why does
the harp of David soothe the insanity of Saul? Is not its festal voice too triumphant to be
the accompaniment of our own sad, fallen being; its breath of sorrow too divine to be the echo
of our petty cares? All other arts arise from the facts of our earthly existence, but Music
has no external archetype, and refuses to submit her ethereal soul to our curious analysis.
'I am so, because so I am,' is the only answer she gives to the queries of materialism. Like
the primitive rock, the skeleton of earth's burning heart, she looms up through the base of
our existence. Addressing herself to some mystic faculty born before thought or language, she
lulls the suffering baby into its first sleep, using perhaps the primeval and universal language
of the race. For the love which receives the New Born, cadences the monotonous chant; and human
sympathies are felt by the innocent and confiding infant before his eyes are opened fully upon
the light, before his tongue can syllable a word, his ear detect their divisions, or his mind
divine their significations. But Music looms not only through the base of our being; like the
encompassing sky, her arch spans our horizon. Lo! is it not the language through which the
Angels convey the secrets of their profound adoration to the Heart of God! The deeds of heroes
were sung in Epic; Dramas, Elegies, and Lyrics syllabled the inner life; men listened to the
ennobling strains, and became freemen as they heard. The intermingling flow of high thought
and melodious measures elevated and soothed the soul, and love for, and faith in, humanity,
were awakened and nourished by the true Poet.

Jemschid wrought with brush and pencil, until the canvas imaged his loved skies and mountains,
glowed with the noble deeds of men, and pictured that spiritual force which strangely characterizes
and mingles with the ethereal grace of woman's fragile form.

Through the artists, life grew into loveliness, for all was idealized, and the scattered and
hidden beauties of the universe were brought to light. The plan of creation is far too vast
to be embraced in its complex unity by the finite: it is the province of art to divide, condense,
concentrate, reunite, and rearrange the vast materials in smaller frames, but the new work
must always be a whole. Angelo aroused and excited the emotions of the soul, which Zophiel
analyzed and described in words most eloquent; while Jemschid made clearer to his brethren
that Beauty of creation which is an ever visible proof of the love of God. His portraits illumined
the walls of the bereaved, keeping fresh for them the images of the loved and lost. Historical
pictures enlarged the mind of his people, keeping before it the high deeds of its children
and stimulating to noble prowess. His landscapes warmed the dingy city homes, bringing even
there the blue sky, the clouds, the streams, the forests, the mountains, moss, and flowers.

Men became happier and better, for the Brothers, in showing the universal Beauty, awakened
the universal Love.

For the true essence of man, made in the image of God, is also Love!

       *       *       *       *       *

The artists turned not from the rose-cheek of the maiden, nor refused the touch of the ruby
lip; but they loved her too well to sully by one wronging thought the tender confidence of
perfect innocence, or cause her guileless heart a single pang. For womanhood was holy in their
sight!

Among earth's purest maidens shone a fair Lily, whose virgin leaves had all grown toward the
sky; whose cup of snow had never been filled save by the dews of heaven; whose tall circlet
of golden stamens seemed more like altar lamps arranged to light a sanctuary, than meant to
warm and brighten the heart of human love. But the devotion of a noble heart is a holy thing;
Genius is full of magic power, and the maiden did not always remain insensible to the love
of Angelo, for he was spiritually beautiful, and when he moved in the world of his own creation,
his face shone as it were the face of an angel. In ethereal 'fantasies' and divine 'adagios,'
he won the Lily to rest its snowy cup upon his manly heart. He soothed the earth cares with
the heaven tones and beautified the bitter realities of life by transfiguring them into passionate
longings for the Perfect. Bathed in Music's heavenly dew, and warmed by the fire of a young
heart, the snow petals of the Lily multiplied, the bud slowly oped, and allowed the perfumed
heart to exhale its blessed odor; and as Love threw his glowing light upon the leaves, they
blushed beneath his glance of fire--and thus the pale flower grew into a fragrant Rose, around
which one faithful Bulbul ever sang. Sheltered in the close folds of the perfumed leaves, what
chill could reach the heart of Angelo? His Rose cradled his genius in her heart, while he poured
for her the golden flow of the tones, coloring them with the hues of Love, and filling them
with the joys of Purity and Peace. Alike in their susceptibility to tenderness and beauty are
the woman and the artist; and she who would find full sympathy and comprehension must seek
it in his heart!

Time passed on with Anselm, the Saint; Angelo, the Musician; Zophiel, the Poet; Jemschid, the
Painter. But the artists grew not old, for Beauty keeps green the heart of her worshippers;
and Art, immortal though she be, is indigenous, and, happy in her natal soil, exhausts not
the heart of her children. Anselm, however, seemed already old, with his pure heart sick--sick
for the Evil possessing the earth. Alas! holiness is an exotic here, soon exhausting the soil
of clay in which it pines, and ever sighing to win its transplantation to its native clime.

  'The Lethe of Nature
    Can't trance him again,
  Whose soul sees the Perfect
    His eyes seek in vain.'

       *       *       *       *       *

It was midnight, and Anselm, worn with fasts and pale with vigils, knelt at his devotions in
his lonely cell. Lo! a majestic form of fearful but perfect beauty stood beside him. The Angel
was clad in linen, white as snow, and his voice startled the soul like the sound of the last
trumpet.

'Gird up thy loins like a man, for the darksome doors of Death stand open before thee, and
this night thy Lord requires thy spirit!' said the mighty messenger.

Anselm trembled. He feared to stand before the All-seeing Eye, whose dread majesty subdued
his soul.

