Lord Minto, when out of office, was able to speak of the engine in more approving terms than
he could adopt in his official capacity. "I need hardly say," he wrote on the 6th of September,
1842, "that the report of continued success in your rotatory engine gives me great pleasure,
not only upon your own account, but as promising a valuable addition to our naval power in
its application to ships of war. As a high-pressure engine, the complete success of your plan
has, I believe, been recognised by all who have attended to it, and it is in this form that
I had contemplated its application in the first instance as an auxiliary and occasional power
in some ships of war."

At length, though not with all the energy that he desired, Lord Dundonald's engine was put
to the test by the Admiralty during the Earl of Haddington's tenure of office in that department.
In May, 1842, he was invited by the new First Lord, who, in common with all the world, was
aware of the zeal and intelligence with which he had devoted himself to the consideration of
every branch of naval science, to communicate his opinions thereupon. The first result of this
invitation was a letter showing remarkable discernment of evils then existing, and curiously
anticipating some later efforts to correct them.

"The slow progress," wrote Lord Dundonald, on the 7th of June, "which the naval service has
made towards its present ameliorated state--yet far from perfection--has not permitted any
one Board of Admiralty in my time to stand pre-eminently distinguished for decisive improvements.
These have rather been effected by the gradual changes which time occasions, or by following
the example of America, or even of France, than by encouraging efforts of native genius. This
has arisen from causes easily remedied; one of which is, that the rejection or adoption of
proffered improvements has depended on the decision of several authorities, who consequently
feel little individual responsibility, and imagine themselves liable to censure only for a
change of system. Thus, my lord, a still heavier responsibility has, in fact, been incurred
by continuing, long after the most superficial observation demanded a change, to construct
small ships of the line, and little frigates, which the great practical skill and bravery of
our countrymen were taxed to defend against the powerful eighty-gun ships of France and the
large frigates of America. This timidity as to change caused many years to elapse, after the
commercial use of steam-vessels, before the naval department possessed even a tug-boat. Hence
the mischievous economy manifested by the purchase of worthless merchant steamers; hence the
subsequent parsimonious project of building small steam-vessels fitted with engines immersed
beyond their bearing, and deficient in every requisite for purposes of war. I am not one of
those, my lord, who deem it advantageous to act on the belief that one Englishman can beat
two Frenchmen. I am inclined to doubt whether a practical demonstration of that saying might
not be attended with disastrous consequences. Long habitude reared experienced British officers,
who are now replaced by others who possess less nautical skill, and are nearer on a par with
those of France, in regard to whose education every pains has been taken by its Government.
I do not presume to advise that your lordship should adopt changes precipitately, nor without
consulting those who may be most competent to judge; no, nor even then that the best measures
should be prematurely disclosed, so as to give intimation to other nations of the vast increase
of power which may suddenly be rendered available. But I venture to suggest that you may quietly
prepare the means of effecting purposes which neither the ordinary ships of war nor the present
steam-ships in the navy can accomplish. Permanent blockades, my lord, are now quite out of
the question; and so, in my opinion, are all our ordinary naval tactics. A couple of heavy
line-of-battle ships, suddenly fitted, on the outbreak of war, with adequate steam-power, would
decide the successful result of a general action; and I am assured that I could show your lordship
how to fit a steam-ship which, in scouring the Channel or ranging the coast, could take or
destroy every steam-ship belonging to France that came within view."

That offer was accepted by the Earl of Haddington, who, being at Portsmouth in August, made
personal inspection of some experiments in which Lord Dundonald was there engaging; and the
result of that inspection was that he promptly arranged for the introduction, at the public
expense, of the rotary engine in the Firefly, a small steam-vessel which, like many others,
the Government had bought and found useless, by reason of its clumsy machinery. In her, with
no more than the usual delay occasioned by the co-operation of official routine with private
enterprise, in which Lord Dundonald had the assistance of Mr. Renton and Messrs. Bramah, the
experiment was tried and found to answer so well, in spite of the difficulties incident to
a first attempt, that it was resolved to develop it further in a frigate to be built throughout
in accordance with his plans for the improved construction of shipping.

To these he had lately made some valuable additions. On the 19th of January, 1843, a patent
was granted to him for various improvements in engines and other machinery, one of which was
an apparatus for propelling vessels. "This improved propeller," says a competent authority,
"consists of an arrangement of propelling blades immerged beneath the water, in the manner
now usual in screw vessels; but, instead of the blades being set at right angles with the propeller-shaft,
they form an angle therewith. One important effect of this arrangement is that it corrects
the centrifugal action of the screw; for whereas, in common screws, the water which is discharged
backwards assumes a conical figure, enlarging as it recedes, in a screw formed on Lord Dundonald's
plan the outline of the moving water will be cylindrical, the centrifugal action being counteracted
by the convergent action due to the backward inclination of the propelling blades. It is found,
practically, that screws constructed upon this principle give a better result than ordinary
screws."[17]

  [17] John Bourne. "A Treatise on the Screw Propeller, Screw Vessels,
  and Screw Engines" (1867), p. 42.

Another invention patented by Lord Dundonald at the same time was a modification of the boilers
used for steam-engines. "These boilers," says the same critic, "are constructed with a double
tier of furnaces and with upright tubes, the water being contained within the tubes and the
smoke impinging upon them on its passage to the chimney. This species of boiler is found to
be very efficient. A hanging bridge is introduced to retain the heat in the upper part of the
flue in which the tubes are erected. By inserting a short piece of tube in the upper extremity
of each tube within the boiler the upward circulation of the water within the tubes was increased
as the length of the lighter column of water was augmented, while the length of the gravitating
column remained without alteration."[18]

  [18] John Bourne. "A Treatise on the Steam Engine" (1861), p. 233.
  These boilers, extensively used in London, America, and elsewhere, and
  now introduced in the Admiralty ship-building, have been greatly
  improved by Lord Dundonald's son, Captain the Hon. A. A. Cochrane,
  C.B.

"I believe," he said in a letter to Lord Haddington dated the 22nd of May, 1843, "that all
our old vessels of war, save the class of eighty-gun ships and a few first-rate and large frigates,
are almost worthless; whilst our steam department is deficient in most of the properties which
constitute effective vessels. No blockades worthy of the name can now be maintained by fleets
of sailing ships; nor can accompanying steamships be kept for months and years even in 'approximate
readiness,' awaiting the distant night when it may suit the enemy to attack our blockading
force or quietly to slip out in the dark in order to assail our commerce in other quarters.
I have, my lord, during the last twelve years actually disbursed, to the great inconvenience
of my family, upwards of 16,000l. to promote nautical objects which appeared to me of importance.
Your lordship knows their nature, and it is in no way difficult to ascertain their reality.
I consider that several, if not all our line-of-battle ships, should have the benefit of mechanical
power, say to the extent of a hundred horses--the machinery to be placed out of the reach of
shot. The construction of new ships on the best lines that could be found would prove more
judicious than repairing old ones, however apparently cheap such repairs may be; for a few
powerful and quick-sailing ships are preferable to a multitude which can neither successfully
chase, nor escape from, an enemy."

That allusion to the "best lines" of ship-building, and some of Lord Dundonald's other views
on naval architecture, will be explained by another letter written by him to Lord Haddington,
three months before, on the 20th of February. "I have lately," he said, "submitted to the consideration
of Sir George Cockburn an axiom for the uniform delineation of consecutive parabolic curves,
forming a series of lines presenting the least resistance in the submerged portion of ships
and vessels--an axiom never before so applied in naval architecture, as is manifest from the
discrepant forms of our ships of war. I also offered to Sir George's attention a new propeller
and method of adapting propellers to sailing ships in her Majesty's service, free from the
disadvantages of paddle-wheels and from the injurious consequences of lessening the buoyancy
and weakening the strength of the after part of ships by a prolongation of the 'dead wood,'
and by cutting a large hole through it for the insertion of the Archimedean screw. The favourable
impression made on the mind of Sir George, and my own deliberate conviction of the importance
of these improvements, and of others then briefly touched on, lead me, by reason of the lamented
indisposition of that talented officer, now personally, instead of through him, to offer them
to your lordship's attention.

"The French, as your lordship is well aware, are making great exertions to advance their steam
department, especially in the Mediterranean, where calms are frequent and their coal is abundant--doubtless
in the hope of thereby preventing the future blockade of Toulon, and of keeping open their
intercourse with Algiers; which would be equivalent to possessing the dominion of the Mediterranean
Sea, where a British blockading fleet of sailing ships must, under such circumstances, themselves
be protected. In saying this, my lord, I beg to be understood as by no means depreciating the
capabilities of our common ships of war, whilst they possess the power of motion, but as holding
them to be quite unfit for blockades, and exposed to great peril where calms are of frequent
occurrence and long duration. Indeed, it may be worthy of your lordship's serious consideration
whether, in another point of view, it might not be judicious to place steam-engines in some,
at least, of our line-of-battle ships, in order to divert the attention of foreign nations
from the exclusive employment of mechanical propelling power to purposes of naval war, whereby
British officers and seamen, deprived of the means of displaying their superior skill, become
reduced to a par with the trained bands of Continental states.

"I have prepared a model in bronze of a steam-frigate possessing peculiar properties, founded
on the before-mentioned axiom, which, I do not hesitate to submit to your lordship, would save
vast sums wasted in the construction of inferior ships and vessels, by enabling the Admiralty,
on unerring data, to stereotype--if I may use the expression--every curve in every rate or
class of ships, and so impose on constructors the undeviating task of adhering to the lines
and models scientifically determined on by their lordships."[19]

  [19] The following statement of Lord Dundonald's "axiom" accompanied
  the model which was submitted to the Admiralty:--"It is universally
  admitted that a sharp bow and a clear run contribute to the speed
  of vessels; but what the consecutive lines ought to be, in order to
  constitute a perfect bow, or what those to form the run, no
  builder has yet exemplified by uniformity of practice, or
  theoretically defined. Ship-delineators profess the art as a mystery,
  and arbitrary forms are assumed as the result of science. These lines
  ought to be, by an axiom, founded on a law imposed by Infinite Wisdom
  for the perfect guidance of inanimate matter. Projectiles, thrown
  obliquely, take their flight in convex parabolic curves, wherein
  resistance is overcome by a minimum of force; and elastic surfaces
  obey the converse of that law in opposing certain external influences.
  It is a property of conic sections that a straight line, centred in
  the apex, and caused to circumscribe the surface of the cone, will
  apply itself continuously to all consecutive parabolic curves. Hence
  curves similar to the flight of projectiles, and to those formed by
  the flection of elastic surfaces, may be described on a large scale
  simply by causing a straight line or beam to revolve as on the axis of
  a cone, in contact with a parabolic or elliptical section. Thus a
  consecutive series of convex parabolic or elliptical curves may be
  substituted in ship-building for hollow fantastical lines. The
  benefits from which application are, increased velocity, capacity,
  strength, buoyancy, facility of steering, ease in hard seas, and
  exemption from breaking or 'hogging.'" Diagrams and explanations
  thereof accompanied this concise statement of the principle.

Great interest attended the development of Lord Dundonald's inventions. "I need hardly assure
you," wrote Lord Minto, on the 4th of October, "of the very great satisfaction I derive from
the continued and increasing success of your rotatory engine; and I shall now look with no
little impatience for further evidence of its merits in the new steam-frigate to which it is
to be applied. I am glad, also, that you have turned your attention to the construction of
steamers of war. I have never been satisfied with the properties of these vessels, much as
their construction has undoubtedly been improved of late years. It is certainly a difficult
subject, because some of the qualities essential to a vessel under sail can only be obtained
by some deviation from the form calculated to give the greatest speed under steam; and I consider
fair sailing powers, so as under all circumstances to keep company with a fleet, as not less
important than speed and power as a steamer. The best combination of these very different qualities,
or that which will upon the whole produce the most serviceable ship, is yet to be sought. I
think, also, that sufficient consideration has not yet been given to the correction of that
very grievous defect, the great uneasiness and excessive rolling of all these vessels, from
the low position of the weights they carry. There is another object in connection with your
engine which I had constantly in view: I mean its adaptation in the high-pressure form to our
ships of war in general. It was my intention, had I remained in office, to have fitted a frigate
with one of your high-pressure engines--not very high, however--with a view, if the experiment
answered, to the introduction of an occasional steam power in all ships of the line. I believe
you and I may probably differ as to the amount of steam power it might be advisable to give
such ships, and that you would wish to steam the Vanguard or the Queen at the rate of ten miles
an hour. My wishes are much more humble, and I should be perfectly satisfied with an amount
of power sufficient to give steerage way under all circumstances, to carry the ship into or
out of action, and to afford her some assistance in clearing off a lee-shore--something about
equivalent to five knots--an amount of power that might probably be obtained, together with
some fuel for occasional use, without encroaching too much upon the stowage of the ship. I
shall be extremely glad if you can induce Lord Haddington to direct his attention to this object."

Through the latter part of 1843 and the whole of 1844, Lord Dundonald was chiefly occupied
with the construction of the Janus, the steam-frigate which was being built and fitted upon
his plans. She was shaped in accordance with his "lines," and in her were introduced both his
revolving engines and his improved boilers. "I have just returned from Chatham," he wrote to
a friend on the 6th of April, 1844, "where everything regarding the Janus is going on very
well indeed. And I have further good news to tell you. The Admiralty are so pleased with my
parabolic lines for ship-building that they have ordered a drawing to be made immediately of
a frigate of the first class, in order to have one constructed." Hopeful that at last his long-cherished
ideas would bring benefit both to himself and to the nation, he had in these months much to
encourage him. "All is going on as well as I could wish, or even as I could accomplish, were
destiny at my command," he wrote on the 31st of May. "The Portsmouth engines now meet the approbation
of all the authorities of the yard, and the Admiralty are so satisfied that they have given
me the building of a steamship to put them in, in lieu of placing them in the old Firefly."
"Nothing," he said in a letter written a week or two later, "can exceed the perfection of the
work which the Bramahs have put into the Janus's engines." "The experimental engine at Portsmouth,"
he wrote on the 3rd of July, "continues to perform admirably, beating all others in the yard
in point of vacuum, which, you know, is the test of power." "The engines will commence being
put together in ten or fourteen days," we read in another letter dated the 10th of July; "after
that we shall make rapid progress. The Janus is now completing--that is, being coppered--and
having the part of her deck laid down which was left off for the purpose of getting the boilers
on board. My patent boilers will be tried by authority of the Admiralty about the 20th, and
I hope for a favourable result." The trial, postponed till the 1st of August, was satisfactory.
"We have tried the boilers of the Janus," he wrote on that day, "and the result is most triumphant,
having, with slack firing, ten and a half pounds of water evaporated by each pound of coal."
"I have just returned from Portsmouth," he had written five days before, "where I had the pleasure
to find my engine exceeding even all that it had done before--the vacuum, with all the work
on, being 28-1/2, two inches above that of any other engine in the dockyard. Mr. Taplin, the
chief engineer, is quite delighted with it." "Sir George Cockburn and Sir John Barrow, permanent
Secretary of the Admiralty, saw my engine yesterday," he wrote on the 24th of October, concerning
the machine being built by the Bramahs for the Janus; "and so did Lord Brougham; all of whom
were well pleased with my explanation of its principles and the appearance of the workmanship.
It is now being pulled to pieces, in order to its being sent to Chatham and set up on board
the Janus, whose boilers, by my request, are again to be officially tested as to their evaporative
power, and that, too, by the Woolwich authorities, whose boilers have been beaten one-third
by the evaporation of mine. This request must show the Admiralty my confidence in the correctness
of the former trial; for there is no doubt the Woolwich people would condemn it if they could."
This second and crucial trial took place on the 9th of November, and the result exceeded alike
Lord Dundonald's expectations and those of the official judges, to whom failure would have
been most pleasant. "All matters as regards my engines," he wrote on the 20th of November,
"are going on well. I hope soon to hear something satisfactory from the Admiralty on the subject
of the boilers, respecting which they have until now pursued the most profound silence, notwithstanding
the triumphant result, which has surpassed the product of the far-famed Cornish boilers in
evaporative power."

Those extracts from Lord Dundonald's letters to the friend with whom he corresponded most freely
will suffice to show in what temper he watched the progress of his inventions during 1844.
At the close of the year he hoped that his labours to bring them into general use were now
nearly at an end; but in this he was disappointed. The Woolwich authorities, who had at the
time expressed their approval of the boilers, sent in an adverse report to the Admiralty, and
Lord Dundonald had to wait several months before he could disprove the statements made against
them; and opposition of the same sort--the common experience of nearly every inventor--encountered
him at every turn, and had again and again to be overcome. His Portsmouth engine continued
to work well; but in September, 1845, he learnt that a malicious trick had been resorted to,
to prevent its working better. "On a recent examination of the pumps in the well," wrote Mr.
Taplin, the engineer, "to our utter astonishment we found, in the middle suction pipe, an elm
plug, driven in so tight that we were obliged to bore and cut it out. The plug stopped that
suction pipe effectually, and from its appearance must have been there from the time the pumps
were first put in motion. As proof of this, we never had such a supply of water as at present."
And that is only an illustration of the obstacles, accidental or designed, that occurred to him.

By them, the Janus was delayed for a whole year. She was to have been completed in 1844; but
this was not done till the end of 1845. "I have just returned," Lord Dundonald was able to
write on the 24th of December, "from a nine days' trip in the Janus, the result of which has
been successful, both in regard to the properties of the engines and those of the 'lines' on
which she has been constructed. Nothing can exceed the beauty of her passage through the water,
without even a ripple, far less the wave which ordinary steamboats occasion." That success,
however, was to be followed by a long series of disasters. The weight of the Janus had been
miscalculated, and though she could proceed admirably in smooth water, she was found to lie
so low that there was constant danger of her being wrecked in rough seas and bad weather. Other
faults, incident to the bringing together for the first time of so much new workmanship, were
also discovered. She had to be returned to dock, and fresh hindrances of every sort occurred
during the two following years; each hindrance being attended by tedious correspondence or
controversies with petty functionaries jealous of a stranger's interference, and only eager
to bring discredit upon his work. Much discredit did result. Loud complaints were made concerning
the waste of public money resulting from Lord Dundonald's experiments, and on him, of course,
nearly all the blame was thrown. All this, added to his previous difficulties in securing for
his boiler and engine any notice at all, was very grievous to him. Every complaint and every
entreaty from him was met by a new excuse and a new reason for delay. "Ten days are always
added," he said, in one letter, "and ten days yet are said to be required."

The days became weeks and the weeks months, and still the Janus was incomplete. She was unfinished
when Lord Dundonald left England for more than two years in order to fulfil the duties assigned
to him as commander-in-chief of the North American and West Indian squadron, and his absence
caused a final abandonment of the works.

The tedious process of her construction, however, to which only sufficient reference has here
been made to serve as illustration of one phase of Lord Dundonald's life, was attended by many
good results. To himself she brought only trouble and expense; but the obstacles thrown in
her way and in his did not deter private adventurers from acting upon some of the principles
developed in abortive attempts at her completion by public functionaries. Lord Dundonald's
inventions--his revolving engine, his screw-propeller, his boiler, and his "lines of ship-building,"--have
all proved useful in themselves, and have been of yet greater use in their influence upon the
improved mechanism of our own generation.

To him must be attributed no slight share in the revolution that has been effected in the materials
for naval warfare. Of the superiority of steamers to war-ships, he was one of the first advocates.
His own rotatory engine was never extensively adopted, and was superseded by other engines
which, lacking the great merit of direct action upon the paddles, that it was his object to
attain, had other and greater merits of their own; but in their adoption his great object was
realized, seeing that that object was not his own aggrandisement, but the development of the
naval strength of England.

CHAPTER XXV.

[1833-1848.]

Zealously as the Earl of Dundonald strove through nearly twenty years to perfect and to make
generally useful his inventions in connection with steam shipping, he attached yet greater
importance to another and an older invention or discovery, which, though its efficacy has been
admitted by all to whom it has been explained, has never yet been adopted. This was the device
known as his "secret war-plans," for capturing the fleets and forts of an enemy by an altogether
novel process, attended by little cost or risk to the assailant, but of terrible effect upon
the objects attacked.

