THE WOMAN'S BIBLE.

PART I.

Comments on Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy.

"In every soul there is bound up some truth and some error, and each gives to the world of
thought what no other one possesses."--Cousin.

1898.

By

Elizabeth Cady Stanton

REVISING COMMITTEE.

"We took sweet counsel together."--Ps. Iv., 14.

Elizabeth Cady Stanton,

Lillie Devereux Blake,

Rev. Phebe A. Hanaford,

Matilda Joslyn Gage,

Clara Bewick Colby,

Rev. Olympia Brown,

Rev. Augusta Chapin,

Frances Ellen Burr,

Ursula N. Gestefeld,

Clara B. Neyman,

Mary Seymour Howell,

Helen H. Gardener,

Josephine K. Henry,

Charlotte Beebe: Wilbour,

Mrs. Robert G. Ingersoll,

Lucinda B. Chandler,

Sarah A. Underwood,

Catharine F. Stebbins,

Ellen Battelle Dietrick,[FN#1]

Louisa Southworth.

[FN#1]  Deceased.

FOREIGN MEMBERS.

PREFACE.

So many letters are daily received asking questions about the Woman's Bible,--as to the extent
of the revision, and the standpoint from which it will be conducted--that it seems best, though
every detail is not as yet matured, to state the plan, as concisely as possible, upon which
those who have been in consultation during the summer, propose to do the work.

I. The object is to revise only those texts and chapters directly referring to women, and those
also in which women are made prominent by exclusion. As all such passages combined form but
one-tenth of the Scriptures, the undertaking will not be so laborious as, at the first thought,
one would imagine. These texts, with the commentaries, can easily be compressed into a duodecimo
volume of about four hundred pages.

II. The commentaries will be of a threefold character, the writers in the different branches
being selected according to their special aptitude for the work:

1. Two or three Greek and Hebrew scholars will devote themselves to the translation and the
meaning of particular words and texts in the original.

2. Others will devote themselves to Biblical history, old manuscripts, to the new version,
and to the latest theories as to the occult meaning of certain texts and parables.

3. For the commentaries on the plain English version a committee of some thirty members has
been formed. These are women of earnestness and liberal ideas, quick to see the real purport
of the Bible as regards their sex. Among them the various books of the Old and New Testament
will be distributed for comment.

III. There will be two or more editors to bring the work of the various committees into one
consistent whole.

IV. The completed work will be submitted to an advisory committee assembled at some central
point, as London, New York, or Chicago, to sit in final judgment on "The Woman's Bible."

As to the manner of doing the practical work:

Those who have been engaged this summer have adopted the following plan, which may be suggestive
to new members of the committee. Each person purchased two Bibles, ran through them from Genesis
to Revelations, marking all the texts that concerned women. The passages were cut out, and
pasted in a blank book, and the commentaries then written underneath.

Those not having time to read all the books can confine their labors to the particular ones
they propose to review.

It is thought best to publish the different parts as soon as prepared so that the Committee
may have all in print in a compact form before the final revision.

E. C. S.

August 1st, 1895.

INTRODUCTION.

From the inauguration of the movement for woman's emancipation the Bible has been used to hold
her in the "divinely ordained sphere," prescribed in the Old and New Testaments.

The canon and civil law; church and state; priests and legislators; all political parties and
religious denominations have alike taught that woman was made after man, of man, and for man,
an inferior being, subject to man. Creeds, codes, Scriptures and statutes, are all based on
this idea. The fashions, forms, ceremonies and customs of society, church ordinances and discipline
all grow out of this idea.

Of the old English common law, responsible for woman's civil and political status, Lord Brougham
said, "it is a disgrace to the civilization and Christianity of the Nineteenth Century." Of
the canon law, which is responsible for woman's status in the church, Charles Kingsley said,
"this will never be a good world for women until the last remnant of the canon law is swept
from the face of the earth."

The Bible teaches that woman brought sin and death into the world, that she precipitated the
fall of the race, that she was arraigned before the judgment seat of Heaven, tried, condemned
and sentenced. Marriage for her was to be a condition of bondage, maternity a period of suffering
and anguish, and in silence and subjection, she was to play the role of a dependent on man's
bounty for all her material wants, and for all the information she might desire on the vital
questions of the hour, she was commanded to ask her husband at home. Here is the Bible position
of woman briefly summed up.

Those who have the divine insight to translate, transpose and transfigure this mournful object
of pity into an exalted, dignified personage, worthy our worship as the mother of the race,
are to be congratulated as having a share of the occult mystic power of the eastern Mahatmas.

The plain English to the ordinary mind admits of no such liberal interpretation. The unvarnished
texts speak for themselves. The canon law, church ordinances and Scriptures, are homogeneous,
and all reflect the same spirit and sentiments.

These familiar texts are quoted by clergymen in their pulpits, by statesmen in the halls of
legislation, by lawyers in the courts, and are echoed by the press of all civilized nations,
and accepted by woman herself as "The Word of God." So perverted is the religious element in
her nature, that with faith and works she is the chief support of the church and clergy; the
very powers that make her emancipation impossible. When, in the early part of the Nineteenth
Century, women began to protest against their civil and political degradation, they were referred
to the Bible for an answer. When they protested against their unequal position in the church,
they were referred to the Bible for an answer.

This led to a general and critical study of the Scriptures. Some, having made a fetish of these
books and believing them to be the veritable "Word of God," with liberal translations, interpretations,
allegories and symbols, glossed over the most objectionable features of the various books and
clung to them as divinely inspired. Others, seeing the family resemblance between the Mosaic
code, the canon law, and the old English common law, came to the conclusion that all alike
emanated from the same source; wholly human in their origin and inspired by the natural love
of domination in the historians. Others, bewildered with their doubts and fears, came to no
conclusion. While their clergymen told them on the one hand, that they owed all the blessings
and freedom they enjoyed to the Bible, on the other, they said it clearly marked out their
circumscribed sphere of action: that the demands for political and civil rights were irreligious,
dangerous to the stability of the home, the state and the church. Clerical appeals were circulated
from time to time, conjuring members of their churches to take no part in the anti-slavery
or woman suffrage movements, as they were infidel in their tendencies, undermining the very
foundations of society. No wonder the majority of women stood still, and with bowed heads,
accepted the situation.

Listening to the varied opinions of women, I have long thought it would be interesting and
profitable to get them clearly stated in book form. To this end six years ago I proposed to
a committee of women to issue a Woman's Bible, that we might have women's commentaries on women's
position in the Old and New Testaments. It was agreed on by several leading women in England
and America and the work was begun, but from various causes it has been delayed, until now
the idea is received with renewed enthusiasm, and a large committee has been formed, and we
hope to complete the work within a year.

Those who have undertaken the labor are desirous to have some Hebrew and Greek scholars, versed
in Biblical criticism, to gild our pages with their learning. Several distinguished women have
been urged to do so, but they are afraid that their high reputation and scholarly attainments
might be compromised by taking part in an enterprise that for a time may prove very unpopular.
Hence we may not be able to get help from that class.

Others fear that they might compromise their evangelical faith by affiliating with those of
more liberal views, who do not regard the Bible as the "Word of God," but like any other book,
to be judged by its merits. If the Bible teaches the equality of Woman, why does the church
refuse to ordain women to preach the gospel, to fill the offices of deacons and elders, and
to administer the Sacraments, or to admit them as delegates to the Synods, General Assemblies
and Conferences of the different denominations? They have never yet invited a woman to join
one of their Revising Committees, nor tried to mitigate the sentence pronounced on her by changing
one count in the indictment served on her in Paradise.

The large number of letters received, highly appreciative of the undertaking, is very encouraging
to those who have inaugurated the movement, and indicate a growing self-respect and self-assertion
in the women of this generation. But we have the usual array of objectors to meet and answer.
One correspondent conjures us to suspend the work, as it is "ridiculous" for "women to attempt
the revision of the Scriptures." I wonder if any man wrote to the late revising committee of
Divines to stop their work on the ground that it was ridiculous for men to revise the Bible.
Why is it more ridiculous for women to protest against her present status in the Old and New
Testament, in the ordinances and discipline of the church, than in the statutes and constitution
of the state? Why is it more ridiculous to arraign ecclesiastics for their false teaching and
acts of injustice to women, than members of Congress and the House of Commons? Why is it more
audacious to review Moses than Blackstone, the Jewish code of laws, than the English system
of jurisprudence? Women have compelled their legislators in every state in this Union to so
modify their statutes for women that the old common law is now almost a dead letter. Why not
compel Bishops and Revising Committees to modify their creeds and dogmas? Forty years ago it
seemed as ridiculous to timid, time-serving and retrograde folk for women to demand an expurgated
edition of the laws, as it now does to demand an expurgated edition of the Liturgies and the
Scriptures. Come, come, my conservative friend, wipe the dew off your spectacles, and see that
the world is moving. Whatever your views may be as to the importance of the proposed work,
your political and social degradation are but an outgrowth of your status in the Bible. When
you express your aversion, based on a blind feeling of reverence in which reason has no control,
to the revision of the Scriptures, you do but echo Cowper, who, when asked to read Paine's
"Rights of Man," exclaimed "No man shall convince me that I am improperly governed while I
feel the contrary."

Others say it is not politic to rouse religious opposition.

This much-lauded policy is but another word for cowardice. How can woman's position be changed
from that of a subordinate to an equal, without opposition, without the broadest discussion
of all the questions involved in her present degradation? For so far-reaching and momentous
a reform as her complete independence, an entire revolution in all existing institutions is
inevitable.

Let us remember that all reforms are interdependent, and that whatever is done to establish
one principle on a solid basis, strengthens all. Reformers who are always compromising, have
not yet grasped the idea that truth is the only safe ground to stand upon. The object of an
individual life is not to carry one fragmentary measure in human progress, but to utter the
highest truth clearly seen in all directions, and thus to round out and perfect a well balanced
character. Was not the sum of influence exerted by John Stuart Mill on political, religious
and social questions far greater than that of any statesman or reformer who has sedulously
limited his sympathies and activities to carrying one specific measure? We have many women
abundantly endowed with capabilities to understand and revise what men have thus far written.
But they are all suffering from inherited ideas of their inferiority; they do not perceive
it, yet such is the true explanation of their solicitude, lest they should seem to be too self-
asserting.

Again there are some who write us that our work is a useless expenditure of force over a book
that has lost its hold on the human mind. Most intelligent women, they say, regard it simply
as the history of a rude people in a barbarous age, and have no more reverence for the Scriptures
than any other work. So long as tens of thousands of Bibles are printed every year, and circulated
over the whole habitable globe, and the masses in all English-speaking nations revere it as
the word of God, it is vain to belittle its influence. The sentimental feelings we all have
for those things we were educated to believe sacred, do not readily yield to pure reason. I
distinctly remember the shudder that passed over me on seeing a mother take our family Bible
to make a high seat for her child at table. It seemed such a desecration. I was tempted to
protest against its use for such a purpose, and this, too, long after my reason had repudiated
its divine authority.

To women still believing in the plenary inspiration of the Scriptures, we say give us by all
means your exegesis in the light of the higher criticism learned men are now making, and illumine
the Woman's Bible, with your inspiration.

Bible historians claim special inspiration for the Old and New Testaments containing most contradictory
records of the same events, of miracles opposed to all known laws, of customs that degrade
the female sex of all human and animal life, stated in most questionable language that could
not be read in a promiscuous assembly, and call all this "The Word of God."

The only points in which I differ from all ecclesiastical teaching is that I do not believe
that any man ever saw or talked with God, I do not believe that God inspired the Mosaic code,
or told the historians what they say he did about woman, for all the religions on the face
of the earth degrade her, and so long as woman accepts the position that they assign her, her
emancipation is impossible. Whatever the Bible may be made to do in Hebrew or Greek, in plain
English it does not exalt and dignify woman. My standpoint for criticism is the revised edition
of 1888. 1 will so far honor the revising committee of wise men who have given us the best
exegesis they can according to their ability, although Disraeli said the last one before he
died, contained 150,000 blunders in the Hebrew, and 7,000 in the Greek.

But the verbal criticism in regard to woman's position amounts to little. The spirit is the
same in all periods and languages, hostile to her as an equal.

There are some general principles in the holy books of all religions that teach love, charity,
liberty, justice and equality for all the human family, there are many grand and beautiful
passages, the golden rule has been echoed and re-echoed around the world. There are lofty examples
of good and true men and women, all worthy our acceptance and imitation whose lustre cannot
be dimmed by the false sentiments and vicious characters bound up in the same volume. The Bible
cannot be accepted or rejected as a whole, its teachings are varied and its lessons differ
widely from each other. In criticising the peccadilloes of Sarah, Rebecca and Rachel, we would
not shadow the virtues of Deborah, Huldah and Vashti. In criticising the Mosaic code, we would
not question the wisdom of the golden rule and the fifth Commandment. Again the church claims
special consecration for its cathedrals and priesthood, parts of these aristocratic churches
are too holy for women to enter, boys were early introduced into the choirs for this reason,
woman singing in an obscure corner closely veiled. A few of the more democratic denominations
accord women some privileges, but invidious discriminations of sex are found in all religious
organizations, and the most bitter outspoken enemies of woman are found among clergymen and
bishops of the Protestant religion.[FN#2]

[FN#2]  See the address of Bishop Doane, June 7th, 1895, in the closing exercises of St. Agnes
School, Albany.

The canon law, the Scriptures, the creeds and codes and church discipline of the leading religions
bear the impress of fallible man, and not of our ideal great first cause, "the Spirit of all
Good," that set the universe of matter and mind in motion, and by immutable law holds the land,
the sea, the planets, revolving round the great centre of light and heat, each in its own elliptic,
with millions of stars in harmony all singing together, the glory of creation forever and ever.

Elizabeth Cady Stanton.

THE BOOK OF GENESIS.

CHAPTER I.

Genesis i: 26, 27, 28.

Here is the sacred historian's first account of the advent of woman; a simultaneous creation
of both sexes, in the image of God. It is evident from the language that there was consultation
in the Godhead, and that the masculine and feminine elements were equally represented. Scott
in his commentaries says, "this consultation of the Gods is the origin of the doctrine of the
trinity." But instead of three male personages, as generally represented, a Heavenly Father,
Mother, and Son would seem more rational.

The first step in the elevation of woman to her true position, as an equal factor in human
progress, is the cultivation of the religious sentiment in regard to her dignity and equality,
the recognition by the rising generation of an ideal Heavenly Mother, to whom their prayers
should be addressed, as well as to a Father.

If language has any meaning, we have in these texts a plain declaration of the existence of
the feminine element in the Godhead, equal in power and glory with the masculine. The Heavenly
Mother and Father! "God created man in his own image, male and female." Thus Scripture, as
well as science and philosophy, declares the eternity and equality of sex--the philosophical
fact, without which there could have been no perpetuation of creation, no growth or development
in the animal, vegetable, or mineral kingdoms, no awakening nor progressing in the world of
thought. The masculine and feminine elements, exactly equal and balancing each other, are as
essential to the maintenance of the equilibrium of the universe as positive and negative electricity,
the centripetal and centrifugal forces, the laws of attraction which bind together all we know
of this planet whereon we dwell and of the system in which we revolve.

In the great work of creation the crowning glory was realized, when man and woman were evolved
on the sixth day, the masculine and feminine forces in the image of God, that must have existed
eternally, in all forms of matter and mind. All the persons in the Godhead are represented
in the Elohim the divine plurality taking counsel in regard to this last and highest form of
life. Who were the members of this high council, and were they a duality or a trinity? Verse
27 declares the image of God male and female. How then is it possible to make woman an afterthought?
We find in verses 5-16 the pronoun "he" used. Should it not in harmony with verse 26 be "they,"
a dual pronoun? We may attribute this to the same cause as the use of "his" in verse 11 instead
of "it." The fruit tree yielding fruit after "his" kind instead of after "its" kind. The paucity
of a language may give rise to many misunderstandings.

The above texts plainly show the simultaneous creation of man and woman, and their equal importance
in the development of the race. All those theories based on the assumption that man was prior
in the creation, have no foundation in Scripture.

As to woman's subjection, on which both the canon and the civil law delight to dwell, it is
important to note that equal dominion is given to woman over every living thing, but not one
word is said giving man dominion over woman.

Here is the first title deed to this green earth giving alike to the sons and daughters of
God. No lesson of woman's subjection can be fairly drawn from the first chapter of the Old
Testament.

E. C. S.

The most important thing for a woman to note, in reading Genesis, is that that portion which
is now divided into "the first three chapters" (there was no such division until about five
centuries ago), contains two entirely separate, and very contradictory, stories of creation,
written by two different, but equally anonymous, authors. No Christian theologian of to-day,
with any pretensions to scholarship, claims that Genesis was written by Moses. As was long
ago pointed out, the Bible itself declares that all the books the Jews originally possessed
were burned in the destruction of Jerusalem, about 588 B. C., at the time the people were taken
to Babylonia as slaves too the Assyrians, (see II Esdras, ch. xiv, V. 21, Apocrypha). Not until
about 247 B. C. (some theologians say 226 and others; 169 B. C.) is there any record of a collection
of literature in the re-built Jerusalem, and, then, the anonymous writer of II Maccabees briefly
mentions that some Nehemiah "gathered together the acts of the kings and the prophets and those
of David" when "founding a library" for use in Jerusalem. But the earliest mention anywhere
in the Bible of a book that might have corresponded to Genesis is made by an apocryphal writer,
who says that Ezra wrote "all that hath been done in the world since the beginning," after
the Jews returned from Babylon, under his leadership, about 450 B. C. (see II Esdras, ch. xiv,
v. 22, of the Apocrypha).

When it is remembered that the Jewish books were written on rolls of leather, without much
attention to vowel points and with no division into verses or chapters, by uncritical copyists,
who altered passages greatly, and did not always even pretend to understand what they were
copying, then the reader of Genesis begins to put herself in position to understand how it
can be contradictory. Great as were the liberties which the Jews took with Genesis, those of
the English translators, however, greatly surpassed them.

The first chapter of Genesis, for instance, in Hebrew, tells us, in verses one and two, "As
to origin, created the gods (Elohim) these skies (or air or clouds) and this earth. . . And
a wind moved upon the face of the waters." Here we have the opening of a polytheistic fable
of creation, but, so strongly convinced were the English translators that the ancient Hebrews
must have been originally monotheistic that they rendered the above, as follows: "In the beginning
God created the heaven and the earth. . . . And the spirit of God (!) moved upon the face of
the waters."

It is now generally conceded that some one (nobody pretends to know who) at some time (nobody
pretends to know exactly when), copied two creation myths on the same leather roll, one immediately
following the other. About one hundred years ago, it was discovered by Dr. Astruc, of France,
that from Genesis ch. i, v. 1 to Genesis ch. ii, v. 4, is given one complete account of creation,
by an author who always used the term "the gods" (Elohim), in speaking of the fashioning of
the universe, mentioning it altogether thirty-four times, while, in Genesis ch. ii, v. 4, to
the end of chapter iii, we have a totally different narrative, by an author of unmistakably
different style, who uses the term "Iahveh of the gods" twenty times, but "Elohim" only three
times. The first author, evidently, attributes creation to a council of gods, acting in concert,
and seems never to have heard of Iahveh. The second attributes creation to Iahveh, a tribal
god of ancient Israel, but represents Iahveh as one of two or more gods, conferring with them
(in Genesis ch. xiii, V. 22) as to the danger of man's acquiring immortality.

Modern theologians have, for convenience sake, entitled these two fables, respectively, the
Elohistic and the Iahoistic stories. They differ, not only in the point I have mentioned above,
but in the order of the "creative acts;" in regard to the mutual attitude of man and woman,
and in regard to human freedom from prohibitions imposed by deity. In order to exhibit their
striking contradictions, I will place them in parallel columns:

ELOHISTIC. --- IAHOISTIC.

Order of Creation: --- Order of Creation:
First--Water. --- First--Land.
Second--Land. --- Second--Water.
Third--Vegetation. --- Third--Male Man, only.
Fourth--Animals. --- Fourth--Vegetation.
Fifth--Mankind; male and female. --- Fifth--Animals.
 --- Sixth--Woman.

In this story male and female man are created simultaneously, both alike, in the image of the
gods, after animals have been called into existence. --- In this story male man is sculptured
out of clay, before any animals are created, and before female man has been constructed.

Here, joint dominion over the earth is given to woman and man, without limit or prohibition.
--- Here, woman is punished with subjection to man for breaking a prohibitory law.

Everything, without exception, is pronounced "very good." --- There is a tree of evil, whose
fruit, is said by Iahveh to cause sudden death, but which does not do so, as Adam lived 930
years after eating it.

Man and woman are told that "every plant bearing seed upon the face of the earth and every
tree. . . To you it shall be for meat."

Man and woman are given special dominion over all the animals-"every creeping thing that creepeth
upon the earth." --- An animal, a "creeping thing," is given dominion over man and woman, and
proves himself more truthful than Iahveh Elohim. (Compare Genesis chapter ii, verse 17, with
chapter iii, verses 4 and 22.)

Now as it is manifest that both of these stories cannot be true; intelligent women, who feel
bound to give the preference to either, may decide according to their own judgment of which
is more worthy of an intelligent woman's acceptance. Paul's rule is a good one in this dilemma,
"Prove all things: hold fast to that which is good." My own opinion is that the second story
was manipulated by some Jew, in an endeavor to give "heavenly authority" for requiring a woman
to obey the man she married. In a work which I am now completing, I give some facts concerning
ancient Israelitish history, which will be of peculiar interest to those who wish to understand
the origin of woman's subjection.

E. B. D.

Many orientalists and students of theology have maintained that the consultation of the Gods
here described is proof that the Hebrews were in early days polytheists--Scott's supposition
that this is the origin of the Trinity has no foundation in fact, as the beginning of that
conception is to be found in the earliest of all known religious nature worship. The acknowledgment
of the dual principal, masculine and feminine, is much more probably the explanation of the
expressions here used.

In the detailed description of creation we find a gradually ascending series. Creeping things,
"great sea monsters," (chap. I, V. 21, literal translation). "Every bird of wing," cattle and
living things of the earth, the fish of the sea and the "birds of the heavens," then man, and
last and crowning glory of the whole, woman.

It cannot be maintained that woman was inferior to man even if, as asserted in chapter ii,
she was created after him without at once admitting that man is inferior to the creeping things,
because created after them.

L. D. B.

CHAPTER II.

Genesis ii, 21-25.

As the account of the creation in the first chapter is in harmony with science, common sense,
and the experience of mankind in natural laws, the inquiry naturally arises, why should there
be two contradictory accounts in the same book, of the same event? It is fair to infer that
the second version, which is found in some form in the different religions of all nations,
is a mere allegory, symbolizing some mysterious conception of a highly imaginative editor.

The first account dignifies woman as an important factor in the creation, equal in power and
glory with man. The second makes her a mere afterthought. The world in good running order without
her. The only reason for her advent being the solitude of man.

There is something sublime in bringing order out of chaos; light out of darkness; giving each
planet its place in the solar system; oceans and lands their limits; wholly inconsistent with
a petty surgical operation, to find material for the mother of the race. It is on this allegory
that all the enemies of women rest their battering rams, to prove her inferiority. Accepting
the view that man was prior in the creation, some Scriptural writers say that as the woman
was of the man, therefore, her position should be one of subjection. Grant it, then as the
historical fact is reversed in our day, and the man is now of the woman, shall his place be
one of subjection?

The equal position declared in the first account must prove more satisfactory to both sexes;
created alike in the image of God--The Heavenly Mother and Father.

Thus, the Old Testament, "in the beginning," proclaims the simultaneous creation of man and
woman, the eternity and equality of sex; and the New Testament echoes back through the centuries
the individual sovereignty of woman growing out of this natural fact. With this recognition
of the feminine element in the Godhead in the Old Testament, and this declaration of the equality
of the sexes in the New, we may well wonder at the contemptible status woman occupies in the
Christian Church of to-day.

All the commentators and publicists writing on woman's position, go through an immense amount
of fine-spun metaphysical speculations, to prove her subordination in harmony with the Creator's
original design.

It is evident that some wily writer, seeing the perfect equality of man and woman in the first
chapter, felt it important for the dignity and dominion of man to effect woman's subordination
in some way. To do this a spirit of evil must be introduced, which at once proved itself stronger
than the spirit of good, and man's supremacy was based on the downfall of all that had just
been pronounced very good. This spirit of evil evidently existed before the supposed fall of
man, hence woman was not the origin of sin as so often asserted.

E. C. S.

In v. 23 Adam proclaims the eternal oneness of the happy pair, "This is now bone of my bone
and flesh of my flesh;" no hint of her subordination. How could men, admitting these words
to be divine revelation, ever have preached the subjection of woman!

Next comes the naming of the mother of the race. "She shall be called Woman," in the ancient
form of the word Womb-man. She was man and more than man because of her maternity.

The assertion of the supremacy of the woman in the marriage relation is contained in v. 24:
"Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother and cleave unto his wife." Nothing is
said of the headship of man, but he is commanded to make her the head of the household, the
home, a rule followed for centuries under the Matriarchate.

L. D. B.

CHAPTER III.

Genesis iii: 1-24.

9 And the Lord God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou?

13 And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said,
The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

20. And Adam called his wife's name Eve: because she was the mother of all living.

Adam Clarke, in his commentaries, asks the question, "is this an allegory?" He finds it beset
with so many difficulties as an historical fact, that he inclines at first to regard it as
a fable, a mere symbol, of some hidden truth. His mind seems more troubled about the serpent
than any other personage in the drama. As snakes cannot walk upright, and have never been known
to speak, he thinks this beguiling creature must have been an ourang-outang, or some species
of ape. However, after expressing all his doubts, he rests in the assumption that it must be
taken literally, and that with higher knowledge of the possibilities of all living things,
many seeming improbabilities will be fully realized.

A learned professor in Yale College,[FN#3] before a large class of students, expressed serious
doubts as to the forbidden fruit being an apple, as none grew in that latitude. He said it
must have been a quince. If the serpent and the apple are to be withdrawn thus recklessly from
the tableaux, it is feared that with advancing civilization the whole drama may fall into discredit.
Scientists tells us that "the missing link" between the ape and man, has recently been discovered.,
so that we can now trace back an unbroken line of ancestors to the dawn of creation.

[FN#3]  Daniel Cady Eaton, Professor of Botany.

As out of this allegory grows the doctrines of original sin, the fall of man, and woman the
author of all our woes, and the curses on the serpent, the woman, and the man; the Darwinian
theory of the gradual growth of the race from a lower to a higher type of animal life, is more
hopeful and encouraging. However, as our chief interest is in woman's part in the drama, we
are equally pleased with her attitude, whether as a myth in an allegory, or as the heroine
of an historical occurrence.

In this prolonged interview, the unprejudiced reader must be impressed with the courage, the
dignity, and the lofty ambition of the woman. The tempter evidently had a profound knowledge
of human nature, and saw at a glance the high character of the person he met by chance in his
walks in the garden. He did not try to tempt her from the path of duty by brilliant jewels,
rich dresses, worldly luxuries or pleasures, but with the promise of knowledge, with the wisdom
of the Gods.

Like Socrates or Plato, his powers of conversation and asking puzzling questions, were no doubt
marvellous, and he roused in the woman that intense thirst for knowledge, that the simple pleasures
of picking flowers and talking with Adam did not satisfy. Compared with Adam she appears to
great advantage through the entire drama.

