Transcriber's note:

      The oe-ligature is represented in this text as "[oe]".

PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 146

APRIL 1, 1914

CHARIVARIA.

We are sorry to hear that the PREMIER is suffering from a troublesome Gough.

       * * *

Poor Mr. ASQUITH, as though he had not already worries enough, is getting into trouble for
sending an exclusive statement to The Times. He now stands convicted by his own party of being
a Times-server.

       * * *

The Premier Magazine is announced for sale. Is this, we wonder, the Powder Magazine on which
he has been sitting?

       * * *

At one moment it began to look as if the Admiralty, after all, was going to change its mind
and we were to have Grand Man[oe]uvres this year--off the coast of Ireland.

       * * *

There are rumours that the Suffragettes are now preparing to blow up the whole of Ireland,
as they find that that little country has during the past few days been distracting public
attention from their cause.

       * * *

An appeal is being made for funds to enable the battlefield of Waterloo to be preserved. A
handsome donation has, it is said, been offered by one of our most enterprising railway companies,
the only condition made being that the name shall be altered to Bakerloo.

       * * *

It is so often asserted that a Varsity career unfits one for success in the bigger world that
it is satisfactory to read that the PRINCE OF WALES'S income from the Duchy of Cornwall was
£85,719 last year, as compared with £81,350 in the previous year.

       * * *

The Association of Lancastrians in London held their annual dinner last week. It would have
been a kindly and thoughtful act on the part of those responsible for the dinner had they offered
a seat to Mr. MASTERMAN, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, who is now back in town.

       * * *

Mr. Justice SCRUTTON has fined a man for saying "Hear, hear," in court, and there is something
approaching a panic among our Comic Judges lest some colleague on a lower plane of humour should
fine somebody, for laughing in court.

       * * *

It has been said that we English take our pleasures sadly. By way of compensation, apparently,
we take our tragedies gaily. Under the heading "AMUSEMENT NOTES" in The Daily Mail we find
the following announcement:--"At the Scala Theatre a new colour film is promised for Monday
next, which is to depict in striking fashion the terrors of modern scientific warfare."

       * * *

A contemporary describes the production, Splash Me, which was presented at the Palladium last
week, as "a Water Revue." The correct expression is surely "Naval Revue"?

       * * *

Messrs. WEEKES AND CO. have published a "Song of the Aeroplane," and we suspect that all concerned
in this venture are terrified lest some clumsy critic shall say, "Merely to hear this song
makes one want to fly."

       * * *

It is sometimes asked, Are we a musical nation? It is possible, of course, that we are, but
last week we were informed by an advertisement that "the greatest song success of the season"
is entitled "Popsy Wopsy."

       * * *

A Mr. SNOOKS attained his 100th birthday last week. So much for those who say that ridicule kills!

       * * *

Thetford (Norfolk) Corporation have decided to pay their mayor a salary of £20 in future "owing
to the heavy financial drain on his pocket." We think it should have been removed and the cost
charged to drainage expenses.

       * * *

The coat-of-arms provided for the Metropolitan Asylum Board includes a red cross, the golden
staff of ÆSCULAPIUS, an eagle, a dragon, and red and white roses. It sounds a mad enough medley.

       * * *

Answer to a correspondent: No, Wild Life is not an organ of the Militants.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEXT OF THE DANDIES.

(According to our daily paper, sloppy untidiness is to be the fashion this year.)

    I've jibed at Dame Fashion for many a year,
      Jibed bitterly rather than gaily;
    And over the follies of feminine wear
    I indulged in a diatribe daily;
    But now I must sing in a different strain
      And praise with a penitent vigour
    The kindness by which she was moved to ordain
      Untidiness strictly de rigueur.

    Though man from her fetters is commonly loose
      (For he has the pluck to withstand her),
    I take it that what is correct for the goose
      Will not be amiss for the gander;
    And I have a suit that for comfort and ease
      I'd always elect to be dressed in;
    The trousers have dear little bags where my knees
      Have made them a corner to nest in.

    The sleeves of the coat are all frayed at the end,
      The seams of the waistcoat have "started,"
    But I have a weakness for elderly friends,
      And now we need never be parted;
    No more when I wear it shall people esteem
      The bardlet in need of compassion;
    They'll merely consider him rather extreme
      In his fervent devotion to Fashion.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "BOLTON W. 1, MANCHESTER C. 0.
  BOLTON WAN. 1, MANCHES. C. 0."

  Sunderland Daily Echo.

It is still a little obscure, but "B. Wanderers 1, M. City 0" would bring it home to everybody.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SPIRIT OF ULSTER AND THE ARMY.

(An Appeal to Both Parties.)

    Still dreaming of the spell of Southern nights,
      Strange on my homing senses fall the raucous
    Shouts of Democracy, asserting rights
      It long ago committed to the caucus;
    Strange--in a Chamber run for party ends,
      Busy with private rancours, feuds, ambitions--
    The legend that the Nation's life depends
          Upon her politicians!

    Yet two things offer cheer: in Ulster there--
      Fanatic sentiment, you'll say, and scoff it--
    I see a hundred thousand men who care
      For something dearer than their stomach's profit;
    Under the Flag they stand at silent pause,
      True Democrats that hold by Freedom's charter,
    Resolved and covenanted for the Cause
          To give their lives in barter!

    I see young soldiers, too, who serve the KING
      (For half the wage a Labour Member cashes),
    Prepared, at honour's higher call, to fling
      Their gallant dreams away in dust and ashes!
    I care a lot for any laws they break,
      But more I care to see what sacrifices
    Men still are found to face for conscience' sake,
          Knowing how hard the price is.

    Ah, Sirs, and must you for a moment's gain--
      I look to both your camps with like appealing--
    Must you upon these virtues put a strain
      Irrevocably past the hope of healing?
    Cannot some gentler means be yet embraced
      That, when the common peril comes upon her,
    Such qualities of heart, too rare to waste,
          May shield our Country's honour?

                                        O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

EGBERT, BULL-FROG.

"Speaking," said my uncle James, "of dogs, did I ever tell you about Egbert, my bull-frog?
I class Egbert among the dogs, partly because of his faithfulness and intelligence, and partly
because his deep bay--you know how those bull-frogs bark--always reminded me of a bloodhound
surprised while on a trail of aniseed. He was my constant companion in Northern Assam, where
I was at that time planting rubber. He finally died of a surfeit of hard-boiled egg, of which
he was passionately fond, and I was as miserable as if I had lost a brother.

"I think Egbert had been trying to edge into the household for some time before I really noticed
him. Looking back, I can remember meeting him sometimes in the garden, and, though I did not
perceive it at first, there was a wistful look in his eye when I passed him by without speaking.
It was not till our burglary that I began really to understand his sterling worth. A couple
of natives were breaking in, and would undoubtedly have succeeded in their designs had it not
been for Egbert's frantic barking, which aroused the house and brought me down with a revolver.
It is almost certain that the devoted animal had made a practice, night after night, of sleeping
near the front-door on the chance of something of the sort happening. He was always suspicious
of natives.

"After that of course his position in the house was established. He slept every night at the
foot of my bed, and very soothing it was to hear his deep rhythmical breathing in the darkness.

"In the daytime we were inseparable. We would go for walks together, and I have frequently
spent hours throwing sticks into the pond at the bottom of the garden for him to retrieve.
It was this practice which saved his life at the greatest crisis of his career.

"I happened to have strained my leg, and I was sitting in the garden, dozing, Egbert by my
side, when I was awakened by a hoarse bark from my faithful companion, and, looking down, I
perceived him hopping rapidly towards the pond, pursued by an enormous oojoobwa snake, a reptile
not dangerous to man, being non-poisonous, but a great scourge among the minor fauna of Assam,
owing to its habit of pouncing upon them and swallowing them alive. This snake is particularly
addicted to bull-frogs, and, judging from the earnest manner in which he was making for the
pond, Egbert was not blind to this trait in its character.

"You may imagine my agony of mind. There was I, helpless. My injured leg made it impossible
for me to pursue the snake and administer one where it would do most good. And meanwhile the
unequal race was already drawing to its inevitable close. Egbert, splendid as were his other
qualities, was not built for speed. He was dignified rather than mobile.

"What could I do? Nothing beyond throwing my stick in the hope of stunning the oojoobwa. It
was a forlorn hope, but I did it; and it saved Egbert's life, though not in the way I had intended.
The stick missed the snake and fell immediately in front of Egbert. It was enough. His grand
intellect worked with the speed of lightning. Just as the snake reached him, he reached the
stick; and the next moment there was Egbert, up to his neck in the reptile's throat, but saved
from complete absorption by the stick, which he was holding firmly in his mouth.

"I have seldom seen any living thing so completely nonplussed as was the oojoobwa. Snakes have
very little reasoning power. They cannot weigh cause and effect. Otherwise of course the oojoobwa
would have nipped Egbert till he was forced to leave go of the stick. Instead of doing this,
he regarded the stick and Egbert as being constructed all in one piece, and imagined that he
had happened upon a new breed--of unswallowable frog. He ejected Egbert, and lay thinking it
over, while Egbert, full of pluck, continued his journey to the pond.

"Three times in the next two yards did the snake endeavour to swallow his victim, and each
time he gave it up; and after the last experiment Egbert, evidently finding this constant semi-disappearance
into the other's interior bad for his nervous system, conceived the idea of backing towards
the pond instead of heading in that direction, the process, though slower, being less liable
to sudden interruption."

"Well, to make the story short, the oojoobwa followed Egbert to the very edge of the pond,
the picture of perplexity; and when my little friend finally dived in he lay there with his
head over the edge of the bank, staring into the water for quite ten minutes. Then he turned,
shook his head despairingly, and wriggled into the bushes, still thinking hard. And a little
while later I saw Egbert's head appear cautiously over the side of the pond, the stick still
in his mouth. He looked round to see that the coast was clear, and then came hopping up to
me and laid the stick at my feet. And, strong man as I was, I broke down and cried like a child."

       *       *       *       *       *

From a revue poster at Birmingham:--

  "I DO LIKE YOUR EYES
    RECORD CAST."

We dislike that kind.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A PEACE-PRESERVATION ACT.

Whereas Mr. Punch has observed to his deep grief and chagrin that political ill-feeling in
Great Britain has increased, is increasing and ought to be diminished, be it enacted--

(1) That no morning, evening or weekly paper be allowed to print anything on its placard save
one of these three phrases: "All the Winners," "Tips for To-day," or "Latest Football"; providing
that nothing in this Act shall prevent The Daily News and Leader from substituting "Latest
Free Church News" for "Tips for To-day."

(2) That no newspaper be allowed to announce more than one political crisis per week under
a penalty of £1,000 for each and every subsequent crisis announced.

(3) That Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR be appointed grand political censor, and that all descriptive expressions
intended to be applied by people to their political opponents be submitted to him, to ensure
that such phrases are properly saponaceous.

(4) That six prominent fire-brands in each Party be deported to Saint Helena, and that they
be chosen by ballot in this wise--the Liberals will select the Tories, the Tories the Liberals,
the O'Brienites the Nationalists, and the Nationalists the O'Brienites. The Labour Party, being
specially qualified for the task, will select six of its own body for deportation; and nothing
in this Act is to hinder Mr. WEDGWOOD from deporting himself if he thinks it needful.

(5) And whereas many highly respectable golfers of all shades of political opinion have been
put off their game by political happenings at the week-end be it ordained that a gracious political
truce reign from Thursday midnight to Tuesday midday, and that during that time, to be known
as the Truce of Mr. Punch, no political crises, resignations, refusals of resignations, re-resignations
or snap-divisions be allowed on any pretext whatever.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Yesterday afternoon a Cardiff prisoner who had been arrested on a
     warrant escaped from the custody of a police officer. The man
     bolted without the slightest warning."

     Western Daily Press.

He was no gentleman. He might at least have said, "One, two, three--Go!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLDEST OF THE ARTS.

     [Speaking at the annual meeting of the governing body of Swanley
     Horticultural College, Sir JOHN COCKBURN lamented that while that
     institution provided healthful and delightful occupation, for which
     women were eminently fitted, it suffered from a continuous epidemic
     of matrimony, not only among the students but even upon the staff.]

    AT Swanley College down in Kent
    The students' time is not misspent.
    Some of the arts at any rate
    Thrive in this Eden up-to-date;
    And doubtless each girl-gard'ner tries
    To win the term's Top-dressing Prize,
    Or trains her sense of paradox
    (While gathering "nuts" and "plums" and stocks)
    By taking Flora's new degree--
    "Spinster of Hearts and Husbandry."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "First he must learn to be a sailor.... Stepping in a small
     coasting craft, he put his shoulder to the wheel, determining, as
     many a boy has done before and since, to get to the top of the tree
     by plodding and perseverance."

     Ashore and Afloat.

We don't recommend this as a beginning, however. Very often the captain, who wants to steer
himself, resents an additional shoulder at the wheel--and invites you to the top of the masthead.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MOON.

[IMPOSSIBLE PLAY SERIES.]

A SUPER-PSYCHOLOGICAL DRAMA IN ONE ACT.

  Persons of the Play.

  Lord Gumthorpe.
  Lady Gastwyck.
  Angela Thynne.
  Stud, a butler.

[Author to Printer.--Oblige me by reversing your usual practice, and printing the text in italics
and the stage directions in roman type. My request will, I hope, prove intelligible.]

Scene.--The drawing-room at Lady Gastwyck's. A large, low room with a mullioned window at the
back through which moonlight steals. The decoration of the room is Adams', though of rather
a self-conscious type, as the plan and construction of the house is obviously of an earlier
period. The furniture is Chinese Chippendale.

Lord Gumthorpe is leaning against the window; Angela Thynne is leaning against the Chesterfield,
and Lady Gastwyck is leaning against the Adams' fireplace. Lord Gumthorpe is a tall, gaunt
man, slightly resembling the portrait of PHILIP IV. of Spain, by VELASQUEZ. He turns towards
Lady Gastwyck and waves his long arms with a gesture of indecision. He then turns back and
looks out on to the lawn. Angela Thynne, is a large, ill-proportioned woman, with curiously
limpid blue eyes, and a shrill hard voice like a fog-siren, that does not seem to belong to
her personality. One is always haunted with the idea that she might be Scotch. Lady Gastwyck
rises. She is a short dark woman with deep-set eyes and one very remarkable characteristic.
She has apparently only one eyebrow. She really has two, but they meet together in one dark
straight line, and give her a forbidding aspect. She has a habit of walking with her chin thrust
forward and her long arms curved like a boxer's. She advances upon Lord Gumthorpe. He instinctively
puts up his hands as though expecting to be struck.

LADY GASTWYCK. You think then that we--that is, that you and I----

[She waves her hand towards the moonlit lawn. It might be an action of dismissal, or an appeal
to the elemental forces. Lord Gumthorpe drops limply on to the window-seat and presses his
forehead against the stone mullion. Then he stands up and gazes at her face, trying not to
appear to be looking at her one eyebrow.

LORD GUMTHORPE (with tremulous indecision). Yes! but you see----

[As he stands there the extraordinary resemblance between him and VELASQUEZ' portrait of PHILIP
IV. of Spain comes home to her with such force that she is about to qualify her half-stated
implication, when Angela Thynne drops her fan into the fireplace. She has moved to the seat
that Lady Gastwyck had vacated. She is leaning forward with lips parted, and her limpid blue
eyes gazing at the dead embers. Lady Gastwyck recoils as though struck by a whip. She moves
to the Chesterfield and leans against it, biting her nails. Lord Gumthorpe moves deeper into
the recess, struggling with the emotions which the astounding act of Angela has produced. As
he sits there, the moonlight, pouring through the diamond panes of the window, throws rhomboids
of light on to the polished floor. It looks like some enchanted chessboard. Leaning back and
gazing with half-closed eyes, he peoples it with fantastic rooks, and knights and bishops,
when suddenly the strangely penetrating voice of Angela breaks the silence.

ANGELA. Would it be possible for you two to----

[There is a terrifying silence.]

Lord Gumthorpe (greedily). Pawn to Queen's pawn four!

[He says this to gain time. For the besetting irresoluteness of the Gumthorpes is consuming
him. "If only she would----" he is thinking to himself, rapidly reviewing the salient features
of his past life. He has not the courage to look at Angela, but his eyes wander in the direction
of Lady Gastwyck. She is leaning forward on the Chesterfield, her chin resting on her hand,
her eyebrow looking like an enormous black moustache. He feels his way along the wall, keeping
his face towards Lady Gastwyck. He knows--he was educated at Eton and Christchurch--that as
the fan has fallen into the fireplace, unless it has been removed, it will be there still.
Very slowly he reaches the grate and, without turning his head, picks up the fan. It is a moment
of intense emotion. The air is charged with electric suspense. Lady Gastwyck moves suddenly,
and the rustle of her skirt sounds like the rattle of musketry on a frosty morning. Lord Gumthorpe
drops the fan. He gropes wildly in the fireplace but cannot find it again. Then with an air
of helpless resignation he goes back to the window-seat. He gazes at the chequered pattern
on the floor and mentally moves his king up one. Lady Gastwyck glances across at him, and it
occurs to her that he has aged during the last few minutes. He no longer looks like PHILIP
IV. of Spain, but more like the sub-manager of the White Goods Department of a suburban Bon-Marché.
She is anxious that Angela shall not observe this, and hence makes the following appeal.

LADY GASTWYCK (hysterically and á propos of no one). A maroon underskirt! a maroon underskirt!
That would be the thing! Fancy, Angela, biscuit-coloured glacé with that coffee skin of hers
and those teeth! You must save her! Take her to Raquin! Let Raquin cut it as only he knows
how! Let her have---- Ah!

[She bursts into tears and then stops, seeing that her effort has failed, for a sombre silence
ensues. Angela has risen and is looking at Lord Gumthorpe. Lord Gumthorpe is standing with
his arms folded. He has just lost a bishop in the dim chiaroscuro of the window-seat and has
not heard her outbreak. Suddenly he looks up, and fixes his eyes upon Lady Gastwyck with a
new sense of resolution. He advances towards her, and gazing boldly at her eyebrow, that looks
more than ever like a moustache, calls out in a thin cruel voice.

LORD GUMTHORPE. Why don't you wax the ends?

[The effect of this bizarre question is startling. Angela turns and smiles gently like one
who has done one's best at a deathbed, and is almost relieved that the end has come. She walks
almost serenely across the room to the sideboard, and, taking up a piece of cheese and three
bananas, goes off to bed. But the effect on Lady Gastwyck is different, for directly she hears
Lord Gumthorpe make this remark she realizes that he is a weak man.

There is a pond at the end of the lawn covered with green sedge. She shivers. She has courage,
but not that sort of courage. She rises and leans against the Adams' fireplace. The Adams'
fireplace leans against her. It falls on to her with a tremendous crash.... Lord Gumthorpe
comes forward and gazes at the jumbled débris. He is conscious of a sense of despairing conflict--the
conflict between contemplative amazement and some natural but well-controlled demand for concrete
action. An appalling conviction comes to him that he ought to do something. Under the fallen
mess of brick, marble, and wood there are feeble undulations. A phrase keeps running through
his mind--"Expressing her primitive virility." He tries to think where he has read it, and
what it means, and how it could apply to the present case. The undulations cease. He decides
that the phrase could not apply to it. He returns to the window-seat. A new horror obsesses
him. The moon has moved round. The chessboard has been blotted out. In extremis, Lord Gumthorpe
falls back on his primitive instincts and rings for the butler. There is an imperceptible pause.
Stud glides in and stands in the middle of the room, tears of reverence and respectability
streaming down his cheeks.

