     "COOK-GENERAL Wanted; all nights out; piano, well furnished sitting
     room; month's holiday with wages each year; three days off per week;
     washing sent out; wage, one guinea per week."

     Northumbrian Paper.

With another three days off and the cooking put out as well as the washing, the Cook-General's
Union would, we understand, be almost disposed to recommend the situation to the notice of
their less experienced members.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, April 26th.--Among the many Members of the House who have held His Majesty's commission
there are, no doubt, some rather eccentric persons, but that hardly justified Mr. PALMER in
suggesting that they should be deprived in debate of the customary prefix "gallant." The SPEAKER
gave no encouragement to the idea, and was still more shocked by Mr. DEVLIN'S proposal that
all these courteous expressions should be dropped, and that Members should "call each other
by own names." It would certainly add to the pungency but not to the peacefulness of debate
if the Nationalist Leader were allowed to refer to "Sir EDWAR-R-D CAR-R-SON," instead of to
"the right honourable gentleman the Member for Duncair-r-n."

At Question-time Lord ROBERT CECIL was informed that a report on the state of Ireland was being
prepared and would shortly be circulated. But a further crop of outrages so moved him that
he could not wait for the facts, and forthwith moved the adjournment. The ensuing debate was
not very helpful. Lord ROBERT demanded the restoration of law and order in tones so vigorous
that an hon. Member called out, "A New Cromwell!" He did not seem to like the comparison and
later on took most un-Cromwellian exception to the Government's methods of "coercion." Mr.
BONAR LAW'S speech could in the circumstances be little more than an elaboration of "Do not
shoot the pianist; he is doing his best."

Tuesday, April 27th.--On the report of the Budget resolutions there was, of course, the usual
attempt to get rid of the tea-duty. As Colonel WARD sarcastically pointed out, opposition to
this particular impost has been for years the "by-election stunt" of every party in turn. To-day
the rejection was moved by the Labour Party, and when the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER asked
if in exchange they were prepared to extend the income-tax downwards Mr. J. H. THOMAS boldly
declared that for his part he was quite ready. But as it appeared that his idea of the exemption-limit
was £325 a year Mr. CHAMBERLAIN thanked him for nothing.

Among the varied and ingenious arguments adduced by Colonel GUINNESS against the increased
tax on sparkling wines the one that he evidently thought most likely to soften the heart of
the CHANCELLOR was that it would reduce consumption, since at current prices it would be an
offence against good taste for anyone in this country to be seen drinking champagne. But Mr.
CHAMBERLAIN could not agree. In his view the larger the taxation on the bottle the greater
the patriotism of the consumer.

 to a good
dinner and a good cigar?"--Mr. JACK JONES.]

In advocating a slight relaxation of the cigar-duty Mr. HURD quoted Mr. BONAR LAW for the dictum
that the excellence of a dinner largely depended upon the quality of the cigar that followed
it, and went on to remark that he did not on this matter expect the support of the Labour Party.
Mr. JACK JONES stentoriously resented this slur upon their taste. "We like a good cigar as
well as anybody," he shouted, adding somewhat superfluously, "Who has a better right to a good
dinner?" This outburst may have shaken the CHANCELLOR'S conviction that Havana cigars are indubitably
of the nature of luxuries.

Wednesday, April 28th.--According to the Duke of RUTLAND, who made an eloquent plea for the
better protection of wild birds, their worst enemy is the village schoolmaster, whose motto
seems to be, "It's a fine day; let us go out and collect something." I cannot help thinking
that his Grace must have some special dominie in his mind and was arguing from the particular
to the general.

The story of Lady ASTOR'S seat is beginning to resemble a penny novelette. Evicted by the bold
bad Baronet below the Gangway the heroine has been enabled by the courtesy of one of Nature's
noblemen, in the person of Mr. WILL THORNE, to find a new home in the precincts of the Labour
Party, and seems quite happy again.

Since the American Senate takes so kindly an interest in our affairs as to pass resolutions
in favour of Irish independence, Mr. RONALD MCNEILL thought it would be only friendly if the
House of Commons were to reciprocate with a motion in support of the Filipinos' claim to self-determination.
Mr. BONAR LAW fought shy of the suggestion and preferred Sir EDWARD CARSON'S idea that it was
better for each country to leave other countries alone. "I would be very thankful," he added
rather wistfully, "if Ireland would leave us alone." But his appeal fell on deaf ears, for,
at the instance of Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR, the House spent most of the evening in discussing the
threat of the Irish dock-labourers in Liverpool to paralyse the trade of the port unless the
Government released the hunger-strikers at Wormwood Scrubs.

The rest of the time was spent in getting the House to agree to the expansion of the Excess
Profits Tax. This was largely secured by the special pleading of Mr. BALDWIN. His argument
that to call the tax "temporary," as his chief did last year, was quite compatible with maintaining
and even increasing it, was more ingenious than convincing, but his promise that, if the shoe
really pinched the small business and the new business, the CHANCELLOR would do his best to
ease it, combined with an urgent "whip" to secure a big majority for the impugned impost.

Thursday, April 29th.--Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL gave an account of the Easter riots in Jerusalem,
where Jews and Moslems have been breaking one another's heads to the glory of God, for all
the world like Irishmen in Belfast. He also promised to give further information as soon as
Lord ALLENBY'S report should be received. Lord ROBERT CECIL, who has lately developed an unlawyer-like
tendency to jump to conclusions ahead of the facts, made what sounded distinctly like a suggestion
that the British officers on the spot had been remiss in their duty, and thereby earned from
Mr. CHURCHILL a dignified castigation which pleased the House.

Crowned with olive-branches plucked from San Remo the PRIME MINISTER celebrated one of his
now familiar peace-triumphs. Everybody knows the procedure on these occasions--the crowded
House, the cheers raised by the faithful Coalitionists as the victor is seen making his way
to the Table, and then the speech, so unvarying in its construction that I fancy there must
be a sealed pattern for it in the archives of No. 10, Downing Street. First comes a recital
of the immense difficulties of the problems to be solved--in this case including a really serious
difference of opinion with our good friends the French; then a little comic relief at the expense
of his arch-critic in the Press, who on this occasion had surpassed himself in "simian clatter";
next a summary of the wonderful results achieved--chiefly the establishment of direct relations
with the hitherto boycotted Governments of Russia and Germany; and lastly a declaration that
all differences and difficulties had melted away, and that henceforward the Allies would be
a band of brothers.

Once more Mr. ASQUITH disappointed his more impetuous supporters and displayed his statesmanship
by a speech in which he practically said ditto to the PRIME MINISTER; the only suspicion of
a sting being contained in his suggestion that the Supreme Council had now outlived its usefulness
and should promptly be replaced by the League of Nations.

Mr. BOTTOMLEY, on the contrary, was all sting and no statesmanship. I gather that he has been
conducting an unofficial conference on his own, and as the result of his conversations with
distinguished but anonymous foreign statesmen has arrived at quite different conclusions from
those of the PRIME MINISTER. The fact that he was kept waiting on the pier at Boulogne while
the British Delegation went off in a special steamer, on which he was not invited to embark,
may have imparted an extra spice of rancour to his strictures.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HIGH-BROWS, LTD.

Whenever we spend a week in London we never seem to find time for the things we really want
to do. After dinner, on our last night at home, I say to Angela, "Let's see--have we any engagements
this trip?"

And Angela answers, "Don't you remember? We're dining with the Hewetsons on Thursday, and on
Saturday the Etheridges are taking us to a symphony concert. Then there's your sister."

"Oh, ring her up, and suggest we come to dinner on Sunday. We don't want to waste a proper
night on Nellie."

"All right. That leaves us four evenings for ourselves. I suppose you want to see the Quartermasters'
Exhibition at Olympia?"

"What's that?"

"I can't think which part of the newspapers you read. Why, they've had columns and columns
about it."

"Ah, that's how I missed it. I only look at the 'late news.' It seems a waste of time to read
the rest."

"Well, it's an exhibition showing the wonderful work done by Quartermasters in the War. There
are Quartermasters checking stores----"

"Are they shown wondering where they ought to stand on a battalion parade?"

"I don't know about that; but we see them indenting for coal----"

"And regretting their inability to issue same?"

"Very likely. Anyhow, everything is arranged practically under the actual conditions. The exhibition
started in an Army hut in St. James's Park, but proved such a success it had to be moved to
Olympia. Why, Mr. CHURCHILL was there one day this week."

"Did he make a speech?"

"He either made a speech or left by a side-door. I can't remember now, but I know he was there."

"Why can't we go in the afternoon?"

"They say it's better at night, because the whole place is lit up by hurricane lanterns and
looks like fairyland."

"Oh, very well. That leaves us three evenings. We----"

"There's this French season at the Central. The papers say that no one who appreciates good
acting can afford to miss that. It's packed, I believe.... Besides, one finds one's French
comes back very easily. By the end of the evening I can generally follow most of what they say."

"H'm. We shan't be able to see ROBEY and BERRY and GRAVES and LESLIE HENSON and DELYSIA in
two nights."

"No-o.... Besides, everybody says one ought to see this Japanese man in Romeo and Juliet. I
hear the way he swarms up the creeper in the balcony scene is quite too wonderful. They made
him do it four times the first night."

Thus we are left with six evenings of duty and one of enjoyment, unless Angela happens to hear
that there is a 'cellist from Spitzbergen or a Bolshevik soprano whom it is social death not
to be able to discuss. In that case we get no fun at all.

The Hewetsons, who live in London and can enjoy all these opportunities for improvement and
still have time for Mr. ROBEY and the rest, think me a terrible Philistine. But, as I pointed
out to Hewetson, he suffers just as acutely when he has a holiday and goes to Paris. Hewetson
holds that there is only one theatre in Paris, the Variétés. But by the time he has accompanied
Mrs. H. to the Français, the Opéra, the Opéra Comique and the Odéon, to say nothing of the
Théâtre des Arts, he is due back at the office. When I explained this to him, his whole attitude
changed at once, and he implored me to accept his subscription for shares in my company. But
his heart-rending account of his last visit to Paris, before the War, when he and Mrs. H. spent
two days hunting round the Louvre (Musée) under the impression that the RODINS were kept there,
suggested a wider scope for my schemes, and it seemed to me that the only fair way of acknowledging
this was to make Hewetson a director.

And now I must tell you about my company, for, although we are in danger of becoming over-capitalised,
there are still one or two shares we are willing to sacrifice, practically at par. The company
is known as High-brows, Ltd., and is "designed to meet the requirements" of the countless thousands
who detect a familiar note in the conversation with Angela just recorded. The idea is simple
and, like all simple ideas, great. We buy a house in each of the chief capitals of the civilised
world, and to this house the visitor hurries as soon as he has left his luggage at the hotel.
Each house will be arranged in the same manner, so that no knowledge of the language of the
country is required to enable the stranger to find his way about.

The ground floor will consist of one large hall or room, combining the functions of waiting-room
and Fine Art Gallery. Reproductions of the principal pictures and statues of the national museums
will occupy two walls and the centre carpet, the remaining walls being hung with the more astonishing
examples of contemporary painters. (We are not anticipating any inquiries for contemporary
sculpture). A minimum of ten minutes is allowed for this room. When your turn arrives you mount
to the first floor, which you find divided into two parts. In each of these a cinematograph
is installed, one "featuring" prominent artists in the standard dramas of the particular country--works
like Le Cid, Macbeth, Faust, or Peer Gynt; while the other runs through the more discussed
scenes of any current entertainment which conceivably one "ought to see."

The first of these programmes is designed primarily for foreigners, and is meant to save them
the fatigue of a visit to national or subsidised theatres, where these exist. The second is
intended to meet the requirements of natives. Each bill will last an hour, and, though clients
are entitled to see both performances, full-time attendance at either carries with it the right
to proceed to the next floor. Here again are two more rooms. In the first of these a gramophone
renders in turn the leading vocalists and instrumentalists (serious) of the country. (Say half-an-hour.)
So far you will have been put to a minimum expenditure of one hour and forty minutes, and,
as only five minutes is allowed for the last room, the time total cannot be considered excessive.

In this last room is nothing but a row of desks. You wait your turn before one of these; then
you hand in your name and receive a pass. On this is printed a certificate that you, the above-mentioned,
are acquainted with the masterpieces tabulated overleaf. Thus in less than two hours (inclusive
of possible delay in the waiting-room) you are free to spend your holiday exactly as you choose.
It is hoped that in time these certificates may come to be accepted as carrying complete immunity,
for at least a month, from every form of intellectual treat.

Hewetson wanted the certificates to be issued in the waiting-room. He said it would save time.
But I decided that, if the prestige of the institutions and their certificates is to be kept
up, unscrupulous people must have no chance of obtaining a pass and slipping away without going
up-stairs. Indeed, I am adding an elaborate system of checks, by which it will become impossible
to reach the Discharge Bureau without spending the requisite time in each room. The first room
is the danger. In the crush people might escape to the cinemas before their ten minutes is
up. My idea is to hand to each entrant a lump of High-brow stickjaw, guaranteed not to dissolve
in less than the stipulated period, and to station a lynx-eyed dentist at the foot of the stairs....

Hewetson in his simple-minded way also wanted the company to be called the Holiday-makers'
Enjoyment League, or the Society of Art-Dodgers, or some such name. He even thought the houses
should be painted in bright attractive colours. I pointed out to him that they should be uninviting
and dull in appearance, and that a uniform sobriety, a suggestion of yearning and uplift, in
every feature of the company's appeal would not only allow thousands of hypocrites, like Angela,
to seek relief at our doors, but would actually confer on people like Hewetson and me a stamp
of that same intellectual passion from whose manifestations we are engaged in escaping.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "SWANSEA AND DISTRICT RUGBY LEAGUE.

                 CUP FINALS.

     Admission: 1s.; Grand Stand, 1s. extra.

              (Including Tax).

     All Seats Free.          No Collection.

     Please bring your Bible for reference."

     Welsh Paper.

The Welsh may not, like the English, take their pleasures sadly, but are evidently expected
to take them seriously.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "PARTNERSHIP.--Ex-Regular officer, owing hotel at fashionable spa,
     desires to meet lady or gentleman, with capital."--Daily Paper.

Before replying we should like to know the amount of the bill he owes.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a short story:--

     "Unconscious of the waiter at her elbow with pad and pencil poised for
     her order, unconscious also of her husband, now her happy tête-à-tête,
     she spoke aloud: 'One never knows!'"--Monthly Magazine.

How they must have enjoyed their cosy vis-à-vis.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIRD CALLS.

II.

  I would not be the tomtit's mate,
  For, even if I were not late,
  It seems as though he'd gird at me,
  Saying, "Quick, quick," eternally.

  The chaffinch you would never think
  Was much addicted to strong drink,
  Yet all the Spring you'll hear him say, "Oh,
  There's cheaper beer in County Mayo."

  The jay, whatever he is after,
  Makes the woods ring with ribald laughter;
  "Hee, hee, ha, ha," he says, and then
  "Ha, ha, hee, hee, ha, ha," again.

  The plover over fields brown red
  Weeps for her children who are dead;
  Still day and night she cries to you,
  "Mes pauvres petits! La grande charrue!"

  So silently the screech-owl flies
  You sometimes scarce believe your eyes,
  Until you start to hear him shout
  To timid mice, "Come out! Come out!"

  Are baby martins in the nest
  With extra-loving parents blest?
  That they should murmur sleepily,
  "Oh cuddle me, oh cuddle me."

  When first the chiff-chaff comes your way
  You're glad, it means Spring's come to stay;
  But soon you wish he'd change his song
  With his "Chiff-chaff, chiff-chaff" all day long.

  Those white-throats in the raspberry canes!
  They never take the slightest pains
  To hide from you how much they steal,
  But say, "Thief, thief," throughout their meal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commercial Candour.

     "Your £20 at ----'s buys £25 worth elsewhere."--Advt. in Provincial
     Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Humane Edict.

     "Notice is hereby given that the washing of motor cars and vehicles,
     and the washing of widows, etc., by hose has been prohibited."

     Tasmanian Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Accountant wanted for Motor Companies in West End; must have
     experience in Bookkeeping."--Weekly Paper.

Not perhaps an unreasonable stipulation in the circumstances.

       *       *       *       *       *

From "Books Wanted":--

     "Orlando Furioso, 4 vols. 1773. Fine building."--Publisher's
     Circular.

We dare say it is. But what we are looking out for in this connection is ADDISON'S works.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ROMA REDIVIVA.

(A Classical Revel, after the Press accounts of last week's Italian ball).

Ancient history became luminous at Covent Garden last week, when the great ghosts of the past,
from ROMULUS to NERO and from EGERIA to AGRIPPINA, were seen one-stepping gaily in toga and
stola at the great Roman ball. It was the night, not of the Futurists, but the Præteritists,
and right royally did they avail themselves of their chance.

Perhaps the most arresting of all the costumes were those worn by Lord CURZON as TARQUINIUS
SUPERBUS and Mr. LANSBURY as SPARTACUS. The former was garbed in a magnificent toga purpurea,
elaborately adjusted so as to show the laticlave on his tunica. Over this was a sumptuous lacerna
of silver tissue fastened over the right shoulder with a diamond fibula. On his head he wore
a petasus of hyacinthine hue, out of which sprang three peacock's feathers. He was shod with
curule shoes, or mullei, fastened with four crimson thongs. Mr. LANSBURY'S costume was simpler
but not less striking, consisting of scarlet braccæ or barbarian pantaloons, a jade-green synthesis,
buckskin soleæ and an accordion-pleated pileus. Lord HOWARD DE WALDEN as MÆCENAS attracted
general attention by the lustre of his amethystine tunica and the crimson heels of his crepidæ,
which may not have been archæologically correct, but were certainly a happy thought. Mr. BERNARD
SHAW, who personated CATO of Utica, wore hygienic sandals, a white toga and a brown felt Jaeger
pileus. Mr. HAROLD BEGBIE as MARCELLUS, the best boy of ancient Rome, formed an agreeable contrast
to the numerous Messalinas, Poppæas and Cleopatras who lent a regrettably Pagan element to
the assembly. But Lady ASTOR as CORNELIA, mother of the GRACCHI, was an austere and dignified
figure in her panniered Botticelli stola, with pearl-embroidered red wings, and a flabellum
(or fan) of albatross feathers with gold bells attached. The grandeur that was Rome, again,
was revived in Mr. JOHN, who assumed the rôle of his namesake, AUGUSTUS, and in Mr. BOTTOMLEY,
who as HORATIUS FLACCUS imparted a Sabine simplicity to the scene.

It is a pity that a good many of the guests had indolently taken advantage of the fact that
ancient Roman dress was not obligatory, and yet it must be admitted that some of them looked
the Roman part to perfection. The unadorned rigours of evening dress only threw into greater
relief the truly Cæsarian lineaments of Lord RIDDELL, the stoical independence of Mr. CHARLES
TREVELYAN and the aquiline dignity of Mr. TICH (Parvus).

It may be added that the use of Latin was not compulsory, but that one of the guests, who appeared
as Phuphluns, the Etrurian Bacchus, and partook freely of the excellent neo-Falernian supplied
by the firm of LEONES, expressed the pious hope that he would not suffer too much from calida
æra on the morrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Mr. Pim Passes By."

Our Mr. A. A. M.'s play is now comfortably settled in its new home (No. 3) at The Playhouse.
A correspondent informs Mr. Punch that since the opening night Mr. DION BOUCICAULT'S popular
part has been developed to the slight disturbance of the balance of things; not so much by
new dialogue as by deliberate iteration and portentous pauses. That on his first entrance he
now studies a photograph with his nose close up to the glass, forgetting that, if he is as
short-sighted as all that, the protracted gaze which he had previously directed upon the ceiling
must have been fruitless. That Miss IRENE VANBRUGH has dispensed with whatever serious element
there was in her part and relies for her brilliant effects almost completely on its irresponsible
frivolity. That Mr. BEN WEBSTER has come on remarkably; and that the part of the flapper is
now played according to nature by the right person.

Mr. Punch's advice to any who have hitherto passed by is to go in and see Mr. Pim doing it.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Now one just hates to drag in personal experiences, because it looks
     as if one were trying to pose as a nero, which thing I hate."

     Illustrated Paper.

We heartily share the writer's dislike of the character.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

Few will deny that, in writing The Life of Lord Kitchener (MACMILLAN) so soon after the death
of the great Field-Marshal, Sir GEORGE ARTHUR has at least displayed the courage of his affection,
since to publish such a work in a time of controversy like the present is inevitably to trail
a coat of many colours, each a challenge to some particular prejudice. If, however, one can
avoid any such attitude of parti pris and regard these three dignified volumes simply as the
record of a great man by one who best knew and admired him, they will naturally be found of
compelling interest. The three main chapters, so to say, of the story, Africa, India and Whitehall,
will each call up vivid associations for the reader; each has been told carefully, with just
sufficient detail. Perhaps circumstances made it unavoidable that Sir GEORGE ARTHUR should,
if anything, rather overdo the discretion that is the better part of biography; certainly in
the result one gets what might be called a close rather than an intimate study of a figure
that in life was already almost legendary. If any man of our time was fittingly named great
this was he--alike in his single-minded patriotism, his success and that touch of austerity
which no anecdotes of exceptions can wholly disprove. In surveying his career of merited triumphs
one remarks how often it was given to him--as at Omdurman and Pretoria--to redeem early disaster,
and one feels again the pity of it that he might not live to see his noblest task accomplished
at Versailles. No doubt the last word upon KITCHENER OF KHARTUM cannot be written yet awhile;
in the meantime here is a book that will have its value as history hereafter, and is to-day
a grateful tribute to one who nobly deserved gratitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

