"Something should be done about it," observed Mrs. Belknap-Jackson, and they both murmured
"Creature!" though it was plain that the Honourable George had little notion to whom they referred.
Observing, however, that the woman no longer glanced at him, he fell to his bird somewhat whole-heartedly,
as indeed did all my guests.

From every side I could hear eager approval of the repast which was now being supplemented
at most of the tables by a sound wine of the Burgundy type which I had recommended or by a
dry champagne. Meantime, the electric pianoforte played steadily through a repertoire that
had progressed from the Largo to more vivacious pieces of the American folkdance school. As
was said in the press the following day, "Gayety and good-feeling reigned supreme, and one
and all felt that it was indeed good to be there."

Through the sweet and the savoury the dinner progressed, the latter proving to be a novelty
that the hostesses of Red Gap thereafter slavishly copied, and with the advent of the coffee
ensued a noticeable relaxation. People began to visit one another's tables and there was a
blithe undercurrent of praise for my efforts to smarten the town's public dining.

The Klondike woman, I fancy, was the first to light a cigarette, though quickly followed by
the ladies of her party. Mrs. Belknap-Jackson and Mrs. Effie, after a period of futile glaring
at her through the lorgnons, seemed to make their resolves simultaneously, and forthwith themselves
lighted cigarettes.

"Of course it's done in the smart English restaurants," murmured Belknap-Jackson as he assisted
the ladies to their lights. Thereupon Mrs. Judge Ballard, farther down the room, began to smoke
what I believe was her first cigarette, which proved to be a signal for other ladies of the
Onwards and Upwards Society to do the same, Mrs. Ballard being their president. It occurred
to me that these ladies were grimly bent on showing the Klondike woman that they could trifle
quite as gracefully as she with the lesser vices of Bohemia; or perhaps they wished to demonstrate
to the younger dancing men in her train that the North Side set was not desolately austere
in its recreation. The Honourable George, I regret to say, produced a smelly pipe which he
would have lighted; but at a shocked and cold glance from me he put it by and allowed the Mixer
to roll him one of the yellow paper cigarettes from a sack of tobacco which she had produced
from some secret recess of her costume.

Cousin Egbert had been excitedly happy throughout the meal and now paid me a quaint compliment
upon the food. "Some eats, Bill!" he called to me. "I got to hand it to you," though what precisely
it was he wished to hand me I never ascertained, for the Mixer at that moment claimed my attention
with a compliment of her own. "That," said she, "is the only dinner I've eaten for a long time
that was composed entirely of food."

This hour succeeding the repast I found quite entirely agreeable, more than one person that
mattered assuring me that I had assisted Red Gap to a notable advance in the finest and correctest
sense of the word, and it was with a very definite regret that I beheld my guests departing.
Returning to our table from a group of these who had called me to make their adieus, I saw
that a most regrettable incident had occurred--nothing less than the formal presentation of
the Honourable George to the Klondike woman. And the Mixer had appallingly done it!

"Everything is so strange here," I heard him saying as I passed their table, and the woman
echoed, "Everything!" while her glance enveloped him with a curious effect of appraisal. The
others of her party were making much of him, I could see, quite as if they had preposterous
designs of wresting him from the North Side set to be one of themselves. Mrs. Belknap-Jackson
and Mrs. Effie affected to ignore the meeting. Belknap-Jackson stared into vacancy with a quite
shocked expression as if vandals had desecrated an altar in his presence. Cousin Egbert having
drawn off one of his newly purchased boots during the dinner was now replacing it with audible
groans, but I caught his joyous comment a moment later: "Didn't I tell you the Judge was some
mixer?"

"Mixing, indeed," snapped the ladies.

A half-hour later the historic evening had come to an end. The last guest had departed, and
all of my staff, save Mrs. Judson and her male child. These I begged to escort to their home,
since the way was rather far and dark. The child, incautiously left in the kitchen at the mercy
of the female black, had with criminal stupidity been stuffed with food, traces of almost every
course of the dinner being apparent upon its puffy countenance. Being now in a stupor from
overfeeding, I was obliged to lug the thing over my shoulder. I resolved to warn the mother
at an early opportunity of the perils of an unrestricted diet, although the deluded creature
seemed actually to glory in its corpulence. I discovered when halfway to her residence that
the thing was still tightly clutching the gnawed thigh-bone of a fowl which was spotting the
shoulder of my smartest top-coat. The mother, however, was so ingenuously delighted with my
success and so full of prattle concerning my future triumphs that I forbore to instruct her
at this time. I may say that of all my staff she had betrayed the most intelligent understanding
of my ideals, and I bade her good-night with a strong conviction that she would greatly assist
me in the future. She also promised that Mr. Barker should thereafter be locked in a cellar
at such times as she was serving me.

Returning through the town, I heard strains of music from the establishment known as "Bert's
Place," and was shocked on staring through his show window to observe the Honourable George
and Cousin Egbert waltzing madly with the cow-persons, Hank and Buck, to the strains of a mechanical
piano. The Honourable George had exchanged his top-hat for his partner's cow-person hat, which
came down over his ears in a most regrettable manner.

I thought it best not to intrude upon their coarse amusement and went on to the grill to see
that all was safe for the night. Returning from my inspection some half-hour later, I came
upon the two, Cousin Egbert in the lead, the Honourable George behind him. They greeted me
somewhat boisterously, but I saw that they were now content to return home and to bed. As they
walked somewhat mincingly, I noticed that they were in their hose, carrying their varnished
boots in either hand.

Of the Honourable George, who still wore the cow-person's hat, I began now to have the gravest
doubts. There had been an evil light in the eyes of the Klondike woman and her Bohemian cohorts
as they surveyed him. As he preceded me I heard him murmur ecstatically: "Sush is life."

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

Launched now upon a business venture that would require my unremitting attention if it were
to prosper, it may be imagined that I had little leisure for the social vagaries of the Honourable
George, shocking as these might be to one's finer tastes. And yet on the following morning
I found time to tell him what. To put it quite bluntly, I gave him beans for his loose behaviour
the previous evening, in publicly ogling and meeting as an equal one whom one didn't know.

To my amazement, instead of being heartily ashamed of his licentiousness, I found him recalcitrant.
Stubborn as a mule he was and with a low animal cunning that I had never given him credit for.
"Demosthenes was the son of a cutler," said he, "and Napoleon worked on a canal-boat, what?
Didn't you say so yourself, you juggins, what? Fancy there being upper and lower classes among
natives! What rot! And I like North America. I don't mind telling you straight I'm going to
take it up."

Horrified by these reckless words, I could only say "Noblesse oblige," meaning to convey that
whatever the North Americans did, the next Earl of Brinstead must not meet persons one doesn't
know, whereat he rejoined tartly that I was "to stow that piffle!"

Being now quite alarmed, I took the further time to call upon Belknap-Jackson, believing that
he, if any one, could recall the Honourable George to his better nature. He, too, was shocked,
as I had been, and at first would have put the blame entirely upon the shoulders of Cousin
Egbert, but at this I was obliged to admit that the Honourable George had too often shown a
regrettable fondness for the society of persons that did not matter, especially females, and
I cited the case of the typing-girl and the Brixton millinery person, with either of whom he
would have allied himself in marriage had not his lordship intervened. Belknap-Jackson was
quite properly horrified at these revelations.

"Has he no sense of 'Noblesse oblige'?" he demanded, at which I quoted the result of my own
use of this phrase to the unfortunate man. Quite too plain it was that "Noblesse oblige!" would
never stop him from yielding to his baser impulses.

"We must be tactful, then," remarked Belknap-Jackson. "Without appearing to oppose him we must
yet show him who is really who in Red Gap. We shall let him see that we have standards which
must be as rigidly adhered to as those of an older civilization. I fancy it can be done."

Privately I fancied not, yet I forbore to say this or to prolong the painful interview, particularly
as I was due at the United States Grill.

The Recorder of that morning had done me handsomely, declaring my opening to have been a social
event long to be remembered, and describing the costumes of a dozen or more of the smartly
gowned matrons, quite as if it had been an assembly ball. My task now was to see that the Grill
was kept to the high level of its opening, both as a social ganglion, if one may use the term,
and as a place to which the public would ever turn for food that mattered. For my first luncheon
the raccoons had prepared, under my direction, a steak-and-kidney pie, in addition to which
I offered a thick soup and a pudding of high nutritive value.

To my pleased astonishment the crowd at midday was quite all that my staff could serve, several
of the Hobbs brood being at school, and the luncheon was received with every sign of approval
by the business persons who sat to it. Not only were there drapers, chemists, and shop-assistants,
but solicitors and barristers, bankers and estate agents, and all quite eager with their praise
of my fare. To each of these I explained that I should give them but few things, but that these
would be food in the finest sense of the word, adding that the fault of the American school
lay in attempting a too-great profusion of dishes, none of which in consequence could be raised
to its highest power.

So sound was my theory and so nicely did my simple-dished luncheon demonstrate it that I was
engaged on the spot to provide the bi-monthly banquet of the Chamber of Commerce, the president
of which rather seriously proposed that it now be made a monthly affair, since they would no
longer be at the mercy of a hotel caterer whose ambition ran inversely to his skill. Indeed,
after the pudding, I was this day asked to become a member of the body, and I now felt that
I was indubitably one of them--America and I had taken each other as seriously as could be desired.

More than once during the afternoon I wondered rather painfully what the Honourable George
might be doing. I knew that he had been promised to a meeting of the Onwards and Upwards Club
through the influence of Mrs. Effie, where it had been hoped that he would give a talk on Country
Life in England. At least she had hinted to them that he might do this, though I had known
from the beginning that he would do nothing of the sort, and had merely hoped that he would
appear for a dish of tea and stay quiet, which was as much as the North Side set could expect
of him. Induced to speak, I was quite certain he would tell them straight that Country Life
in England was silly rot, and that was all to it. Now, not having seen him during the day,
I could but hope that he had attended the gathering in suitable afternoon attire, and that
he would have divined that the cattle-person's hat did not coordinate with this.

At four-thirty, while I was still concerned over the possible misadventures of the Honourable
George, my first patrons for tea began to arrive, for I had let it be known that I should specialize
in this. Toasted crumpets there were, and muffins, and a tea cake rich with plums, and tea,
I need not say, which was all that tea could be. Several tables were filled with prominent
ladies of the North Side set, who were loud in their exclamations of delight, especially at
the finished smartness of my service, for it was perhaps now that the profoundly serious thought
I had given to my silver, linen, and glassware showed to best advantage. I suspect that this
was the first time many of my guests had encountered a tea cozy, since from that day they began
to be prevalent in Red Gap homes. Also my wagon containing the crumpets, muffins, tea cake,
jam and bread-and-butter, which I now used for the first time created a veritable sensation.

There was an agreeable hum of chatter from these early comers when I found myself welcoming
Mrs. Judge Ballard and half a dozen members of the Onwards and Upwards Club, all of them wearing
what I made out to be a baffled look. From these I presently managed to gather that their guest
of honour for the afternoon had simply not appeared, and that the meeting, after awaiting him
for two hours, had dissolved in some resentment, the time having been spent chiefly in an unflattering
dissection of the Klondike woman's behaviour the evening before.

"He is a naughty man to disappoint us so cruelly!" declared Mrs. Judge Ballard of the Honourable
George, but the coquetry of it was feigned to cover a very real irritation. I made haste with
possible excuses. I said that he might be ill, or that important letters in that day's post
might have detained him. I knew he had been astonishingly well that morning, also that he loathed
letters and almost practically never received any; but something had to be said.

"A naughty, naughty fellow!" repeated Mrs. Ballard, and the members of her party echoed it.
They had looked forward rather pathetically, I saw, to hearing about Country Life in England
from one who had lived it.

I was now drawn to greet the Belknap-Jacksons, who entered, and to the pleasure of winning
their hearty approval for the perfection of my arrangements. As the wife presently joined Mrs.
Ballard's group, the husband called me to his table and disclosed that almost the worst might
be feared of the Honourable George. He was at that moment, it appeared, with a rabble of cow-persons
and members of the lower class gathered at a stockade at the edge of town, where various native
horses fresh from the wilderness were being taught to be ridden.

"The wretched Floud is with him," continued my informant, "also the Tuttle chap, who continues
to be received by our best people in spite of my remonstrances, and he yells quite like a demon
when one of the riders is thrown. I passed as quickly as I could. The spectacle was--of course
I make allowances for Vane-Basingwell's ignorance of our standards--it was nothing short of
disgusting; a man of his position consorting with the herd!"

"He told me no longer ago than this morning," I said, "that he was going to take up America."

"He has!" said Belknap-Jackson with bitter emphasis. "You should see what he has on--a cowboy
hat and chapps! And the very lowest of them are calling him 'Judge'!"

"He flunked a meeting of the Onwards and Upwards Society," I added.

"I know! I know! And who could have expected it in one of his lineage? At this very moment
he should be conducting himself as one of his class. Can you wonder at my impatience with the
West? Here at an hour when our social life should be in evidence, when all trade should be
forgotten, I am the only man in the town who shows himself in a tea-room; and Vane-Basingwell
over there debasing himself with our commonest sort!"

All at once I saw that I myself must bear the brunt of this scandal. I had brought hither the
Honourable George, promising a personage who would for once and all unify the North Side set
and perhaps disintegrate its rival. I had been felicitated upon my master-stroke. And now it
seemed I had come a cropper. But I resolved not to give up, and said as much now to Belknap-Jackson.

"I may be blamed for bringing him among you, but trust me if things are really as bad as they
seem. I'll get him off again. I'll not let myself be bowled by such a silly lob as that. Trust
me to devote profound thought to this problem."

"We all have every confidence in you," he assured me, "but don't be too severe all at once
with the chap. He might recover a sane balance even yet."

"I shall use discretion," I assured him, "but if it proves that I have fluffed my catch, rely
upon me to use extreme measures."

"Red Gap needs your best effort," he replied in a voice that brimmed with feeling.

At five-thirty, my rush being over, I repaired to the neighbourhood where the Honourable George
had been reported. The stockade now contained only a half-score of the untaught horses, but
across the road from it was a public house, or saloon, from which came unmistakable sounds
of carousing. It was an unsavoury place, frequented only by cattle and horse persons, the proprietor
being an abandoned character named Spilmer, who had once done a patron to death in a drunken
quarrel. Only slight legal difficulties had been made for him, however, it having been pleaded
that he acted in self-defence, and the creature had at once resumed his trade as publican.
There was even public sympathy for him at the time on the ground that he possessed a blind
mother, though I have never been able to see that this should have been a factor in adjudging him.

I paused now before the low place, imagining I could detect the tones of the Honourable George
high above the chorus that came out to me. Deciding that in any event it would not become me
to enter a resort of this stamp, I walked slowly back toward the more reputable part of town,
and was presently rewarded by seeing the crowd emerge. It was led, I saw, by the Honourable
George. The cattle-hat was still down upon his ears, and to my horror he had come upon the
public thoroughfare with his legs encased in the chapps--a species of leathern pantalettes
covered with goat's wool--a garment which I need not say no gentleman should be seen abroad
in. As worn by the cow-persons in their daily toil they are only just possible, being as far
from true vogue as anything well could be.

Accompanying him were Cousin Egbert, the Indian Tuttle, the cow-persons, Hank and Buck, and
three or four others of the same rough stamp. Unobtrusively I followed them to our main thoroughfare,
deeply humiliated by the atrocious spectacle the Honourable George was making of himself, only
to observe them turn into another public house entitled "The Family Liquor Store," where if
seemed only too certain, since the bearing of all was highly animated, that they would again
carouse.

At once seeing my duty, I boldly entered, finding them aligned against the American bar and
clamouring for drink. My welcome was heartfelt, even enthusiastic, almost every one of them
beginning to regale me with incidents of the afternoon's horse-breaking. The Honourable George,
it seemed, had himself briefly mounted one of the animals, having fallen into the belief that
the cow-persons did not try earnestly enough to stay on their mounts. I gathered that one experience
had dissuaded him from this opinion.

"That there little paint horse," observed Cousin Egbert genially, "stepped out from under the
Judge the prettiest you ever saw."

"He sure did," remarked the Honourable George, with a palpable effort to speak the American
brogue. "A most flighty beast he was--nerves all gone--I dare say a hopeless neurasthenic."

And then when I would have rebuked him for so shamefully disappointing the ladies of the Onwards
and Upwards Society, he began to tell me of the public house he had just left.

"I say, you know that Spilmer chap, he's a genuine murderer--he let me hold the weapon with
which he did it--and he has blind relatives dependent upon him, or something of that sort,
otherwise I fancy they'd have sent him to the gallows. And, by Gad! he's a witty scoundrel,
what! Looking at his sign--leaving the settlement it reads, 'Last Chance,' but entering the
settlement it reads, 'First Chance.' Last chance and first chance for a peg, do you see what
I mean? I tried it out; walked both ways under the sign and looked up; it worked perfectly.
Enter the settlement, 'First Chance'; leave the settlement, 'Last Chance.' Do you see what
I mean? Suggestive, what! Witty! You'd never have expected that murderer-Johnny to be so subtle.
Our own murderers aren't that way. I say, it's a tremendous wheeze. I wonder the press-chaps
don't take it up. It's better than the blind factory, though the chap's mother or something
is blind. What ho! But that's silly! To be sure one has nothing to do with the other. I say,
have another, you chaps! I've not felt so fit in ages. I'm going to take up America!"

Plainly it was no occasion to use serious words to the man. He slapped his companions smartly
on their backs and was slapped in turn by all of them. One or two of them called him an old
horse! Not only was I doing no good for the North Side set, but I had felt obliged to consume
two glasses of spirits that I did not wish. So I discreetly withdrew. As I went, the Honourable
George was again telling them that he was "going in" for North America, and Cousin Egbert was
calling "Three rousing cheers!"

Thus luridly began, I may say, a scandal that was to be far-reaching in its dreadful effects.
Far from feeling a proper shame on the following day, the Honourable George was as pleased
as Punch with himself, declaring his intention of again consorting with the cattle and horse
persons and very definitely declining an invitation to play at golf with Belknap-Jackson.

"Golf!" he spluttered. "You do it, and then you've directly to do it all over again. I mean
to say, one gets nowhere. A silly game--what!"

Wishing to be in no manner held responsible for his vicious pursuits, I that day removed my
diggings from the Floud home to chambers in the Pettengill block above the Grill, where I did
myself quite nicely with decent mantel ornaments, some vivacious prints of old-world cathedrals,
and a few good books, having for body-servant one of the Hobbs lads who seemed rather teachable.
I must admit, however, that I was frequently obliged to address him more sharply than one should
ever address one's servant, my theory having always been that a serving person should be treated
quite as if he were a gentleman temporarily performing menial duties, but there was that strain
of lowness in all the Hobbses which often forbade this, a blending of servility with more or
less skilfully dissembled impertinence, which I dare say is the distinguishing mark of our
lower-class serving people.

Removed now from the immediate and more intimate effects of the Honourable George's digressions,
I was privileged for days at a time to devote my attention exclusively to my enterprise. It
had thriven from the beginning, and after a month I had so perfected the minor details of management
that everything was right as rain. In my catering I continued to steer a middle course between
the British school of plain roast and boiled and a too often piffling French complexity, seeking
to retain the desirable features of each. My luncheons for the tradesmen rather held to a cut
from the joint with vegetables and a suitable sweet, while in my dinners I relaxed a bit into
somewhat imaginative salads and entrees. For the tea-hour I constantly strove to provide some
appetizing novelty, often, I confess, sacrificing nutrition to mere sightliness in view of
my almost exclusive feminine patronage, yet never carrying this to an undignified extreme.

As a result of my sound judgment, dinner-giving in Red Gap began that winter to be done almost
entirely in my place. There might be small informal affairs at home, but for dinners of any
pretension the hostesses of the North Side set came to me, relying almost quite entirely upon
my taste in the selection of the menu. Although at first I was required to employ unlimited
tact in dissuading them from strange and laboured concoctions, whose photographs they fetched
me from their women's magazines, I at length converted them from this unwholesome striving
for novelty and laid the foundations for that sound scheme of gastronomy which to-day distinguishes
this fastest-growing town in the state, if not in the West of America.

It was during these early months, I ought perhaps to say, that I rather distinguished myself
in the matter of a relish which I compounded one day when there was a cold round of beef for
luncheon. Little dreaming of the magnitude of the moment, I brought together English mustard
and the American tomato catsup, in proportions which for reasons that will be made obvious
I do not here disclose, together with three other and lesser condiments whose identity also
must remain a secret. Serving this with my cold joint, I was rather amazed at the sensation
it created. My patrons clamoured for it repeatedly and a barrister wished me to prepare a flask
of it for use in his home. The following day it was again demanded and other requests were
made for private supplies, while by the end of the week my relish had become rather famous.
Followed a suggestion from Mrs. Judson as she overlooked my preparation of it one day from
her own task of polishing the glassware.

"Put it on the market," said she, and at once I felt the inspiration of her idea. To her I
entrusted the formula. I procured a quantity of suitable flasks, while in her own home she
compounded the stuff and filled them. Having no mind to claim credit not my own, I may now
say that this rather remarkable woman also evolved the idea of the label, including the name,
which was pasted upon the bottles when our product was launched.

"Ruggles' International Relish" she had named it after a moment's thought. Below was a print
of my face taken from an excellent photographic portrait, followed by a brief summary of the
article's unsurpassed excellence, together with a list of the viands for which it was commended.
As the International Relish is now a matter of history, the demand for it having spread as
far east as Chicago and those places, I may add that it was this capable woman again who devised
the large placard for hoardings in which a middle-aged but glowing bon-vivant in evening dress
rebukes the blackamoor who has served his dinner for not having at once placed Ruggles' International
Relish upon the table. The genial annoyance of the diner and the apologetic concern of the
black are excellently depicted by the artist, for the original drawing of which I paid a stiffish
price to the leading artist fellow of Spokane. This now adorns the wall of my sitting-room.

It must not be supposed that I had been free during these months from annoyance and chagrin
at the manner in which the Honourable George was conducting himself. In the beginning it was
hoped both by Belknap-Jackson and myself that he might do no worse than merely consort with
the rougher element of the town. I mean to say, we suspected that the apparent charm of the
raffish cattle-persons might suffice to keep him from any notorious alliance with the dreaded
Bohemian set. So long as he abstained from this he might still be received at our best homes,
despite his regrettable fondness for low company. Even when he brought the murderer Spilmer
to dine with him at my place, the thing was condoned as a freakish grotesquerie in one who,
of unassailable social position, might well afford to stoop momentarily.

I must say that the murderer--a heavy-jowled brute of husky voice, and quite lacking a forehead--conducted
himself on this occasion with an entirely decent restraint of manner, quite in contrast to
the Honourable George, who betrayed an expansively naive pride in his guest, seeming to wish
the world to know of the event. Between them they consumed a fair bottle of the relish. Indeed,
the Honourable George was inordinately fond of this, as a result of which he would often come
out quite spotty again. Cousin Egbert was another who became so addicted to it that his fondness
might well have been called a vice. Both he and the Honourable George would drench quite every
course with the sauce, and Cousin Egbert, with that explicit directness which distinguished
his character, would frankly sop his bread-crusts in it, or even sip it with a coffee-spoon.

As I have intimated, in spite of the Honourable George's affiliations with the slum-characters
of what I may call Red Gap's East End, he had not yet publicly identified himself with the
Klondike woman and her Bohemian set, in consequence of which--let him dine and wine a Spilmer
as he would--there was yet hope that he would not alienate himself from the North Side set.

At intervals during the early months of his sojourn among us he accepted dinner invitations
at the Grill from our social leaders; in fact, after the launching of the International Relish,
I know of none that he declined, but it was evident to me that he moved but half-heartedly
in this higher circle. On one occasion, too, he appeared in the trousers of a lounge-suit of
tweeds instead of his dress trousers, and with tan boots. The trousers, to be sure, were of
a sombre hue, but the brown boots were quite too dreadfully unmistakable. After this I may
say that I looked for anything, and my worst fears were soon confirmed.

It began as the vaguest sort of gossip. The Honourable George, it was said, had been a guest
at one of the Klondike woman's evening affairs. The rumour crystallized. He had been asked
to meet the Bohemian set at a Dutch supper and had gone. He had lingered until a late hour,
dancing the American folkdances (for which he had shown a surprising adaptability) and conducting
himself generally as the next Earl of Brinstead should not have done. He had repeated his visit,
repairing to the woman's house both afternoon and evening. He had become a constant visitor.
He had spoken regrettably of the dulness of a meeting of the Onwards and Upwards Society which
he had attended. He was in the woman's toils.

With gossip of this sort there was naturally much indignation, and yet the leaders of the North
Side set were so delicately placed that there was every reason for concealing it. They redoubled
their attentions to the unfortunate man, seeking to leave him not an unoccupied evening or
afternoon. Such was the gravity of the crisis. Belknap-Jackson alone remained finely judicial.

