The temper of Watson was very much subdued by this sort of warfare. His next letter to Marion
was of very different tone from that sent but a few days before. He now solicits a pass from
his enemy for Lieut. Torriano and others wounded, whom he desired to send to Charleston. This
was promptly granted. Meanwhile he employed a negro from Chevin's plantation to carry a letter
to the commandant at Georgetown. In endeavoring to make his way, the negro was killed and the
letter fell into the hands of Marion. It contained a woful complaint of the unfair mode of
fighting pursued by the partisans, and implored a reinforcement.* In fact Watson was literally
besieged. His supplies were cut off, his progress arrested, and so many of his men perished
in the continual skirmishing, that he is reported by tradition to have sunk them in Black river
in order to conceal their numbers. He was finally compelled to decamp. If his path was beset
with dangers, it was death to remain in his present situation. Making a forced march down the
Georgetown road, he paused when he reached Ox swamp, six miles below the lower bridge. His
flight had been harassed by light parties of the Americans; but here he found them prepared
for, and awaiting him. The road through which he was to pass, was skirted by a thick boggy
swamp, and before him the causeway was covered with trees which had been felled to obstruct
his passage. The bridges were destroyed, and Marion lay directly in his path, prepared for
a final encounter. Watson shrunk from the prospect, and determined upon another route. Wheeling
to the right he dashed through the open pine woods, for the Santee road, about fifteen miles.
When overtaken by Marion upon this road, his infantry were hurrying forward, like horses, at
a full trot. But few natural obstacles attended his progress on this path, and the extraordinary
rapidity of his flight had put him considerably ahead of his pursuers. But he was not yet to
escape. The cavalry of Horry, and the riflemen of M'Cottry, galled him at every step in flank
and rear. When he reached Sampit bridge a last skirmish took place, which might have terminated
in the complete defeat of the enemy, but for the cowardice of a Lieut. Scott, of Horry's detachment.
Watson was attacked fiercely in the flank and rear by the whole force of Marion. His horse
was killed, and his own life endangered. The affair was equally short and sharp, and had it
not been that the ambush placed by Horry failed to discharge its duty, Watson would, in all
probability, never have reached Georgetown, or only reached it on parole. He gained it finally
in safety, thoroughly harassed and discomfited by the subtle enemy whom he had gone forth,
with a superior force, and a confident hope, to destroy or capture.

     * Horry's MS.--

But the success of our partisan against Watson did not necessarily dispose of his enemies.
While he had been engaged in the events, as just given, Col. Doyle had succeeded in penetrating
to his haunts on Snow's Island. That famous retreat had been entrusted to a small body of men
under the command of Col. Ervin. Ervin was defeated, and Doyle obtained possession of all Marion's
stores. Arms and ammunition were emptied into Lynch's Creek, and this at a period, when every
ounce of powder, and pound of shot, were worth, to our partisans, their weight in gold. It
was while moving from Sampit towards Snow's Island, that Marion was apprised of this mortifying
intelligence. It was a matter to be deplored certainly, but it was one of those events that
could not have been prevented. The force of Marion was too small to suffer him to play the
admirable game, already described, with Watson, yet leave a sufficient body of men in camp
for its protection. He had only to console himself by taking his revenge, and he turned the
head of his columns in pursuit of Doyle. This officer made his way to Witherspoon's Ferry,
on Lynch's Creek, where he lay in a good position on the north side of the Ferry. Marion approached
him cautiously, with M'Cottry's mounted riflemen in advance. Arriving at the creek a detachment
of the British was found on the opposite side, engaged in scuttling the ferry boat. The riflemen
drew nigh unperceived, and poured in a well directed and deadly fire, which produced the utmost
consternation. The fire was returned in volleys, but the limbs and branches of the trees suffered
infinitely more than the riflemen who lay behind them. Marion now made his arrangements for
crossing the stream. But this was not to be done in the face of the enemy, with the creek before
him wide and swollen. Marion moved rapidly up the creek, which he swam at the first favorable
point some five miles above Witherspoon's. This brought him nearer to Doyle's position, but
the latter had not waited for him. Whether it was that he had little taste for the sort of
annoyances to which Watson had been subjected, or that he had received instructions from Lord
Rawdon to join him at Camden, in all haste, it is certain that he made the greatest speed in
hurrying in that direction.

It was at this period that Marion held a consultation with Horry, in which he is represented
by that officer as in an unusual state of despondency. His enemies were accumulating around
him with unwonted rapidity, and in greater force than ever. Watson, furious at his late disasters,
and mortified with the result of his confident anticipations, had sallied forth from Georgetown
with a reinforcement. He had gone towards the Pedee, where he strengthened himself with the
large body of Tories which Gainey had commanded. Horry tells us of a third body of men at the
same time in the field, with Doyle and Watson, and all addressing themselves to the same object,
his utter expulsion from the country. At that moment the expulsion of our Partisan would leave
the conquest of the State complete.

In these emergencies, with these foes accumulating around him, the mind of Marion naturally
addressed itself with more gravity than usual to the task of his extrication from his enemies.
His countenance, as Horry describes it, was troubled. But, with his usual taciturnity, he said
nothing on the subject of his anxieties. Seeing him walking alone, and in deep revery, Horry
approached him, and said--

"General, our men are few, and, if what I hear be true, you never wanted them more."

Marion started, and replied--

"Go immediately to the field officers, and know from them, if, in the event of my being compelled
to retire to the mountains, they will follow my fortunes, and with me carry on the war, until
the enemy is forced out of the country. Go, and bring me their answer without delay."

It was a peculiarity in Marion's character, that he should have entrusted such a commission
to a subordinate. But it accords with all that we have seen of the reserve and shyness of his
moods. The simple remark to Horry indicates his admirable firmness, his calculations, even
of possible necessities long in advance, and his instinctive mode of encountering them as he
best might. His determination, on his own account, to carry on the war against the enemy in
the mountains, till they or himself were expelled from the country, denotes the unsubmitting
patriot. The reader must not forget that, at this moment, there was no force in the State but
his own, arrayed against the British. Sumter was still 'hors de combat' from his wound. The
army of Greene, having with it Pickens, and other native militia, was in North Carolina, watching
the movements of Cornwallis. Lord Rawdon, with a strong British garrison, held Camden. Charleston
and Georgetown, Ninety-Six and Granby, Forts Watson and Motte, were all held, with numerous
other conspicuous points, by the British; and with Watson, whose force now numbered a thousand
men, Doyle half that number, and several active and large bodies of Tories prepared to cooperate
with these against our partisan, the danger of Marion's situation, and his patriotic resolve
of character, are conspicuous at a glance.

Horry sought the officers, and promptly returned to his commander. To a man they had pledged
themselves to follow his fortunes, however disastrous, while one of them survived, and until
their country was freed from the enemy.

Marion instantly put his men in motion in pursuit of Doyle. In crossing the swamp of Lynch's
Creek, during the night, several of the soldiers lost their arms, in consequence of the freshet.
The swamp was inundated, and it required all their dexterity and promptitude to save themselves.
Snatching a hasty breakfast, the pursuit was continued all day, and resumed the next morning
until ten o'clock, when they found such signs of the superior speed and haste of the enemy,
as to preclude all possibility of overtaking him. They had been necessarily delayed by the
passage of the swamp, and had not made sufficient allowance for the speed with which an enemy
might run when there was occasion for it. Here they found that Doyle had destroyed all his
heavy baggage, and had sped in such confusion towards Camden, that his encampment, and the
road which he traversed, were strewn with canteens and knapsacks, and everything, not necessary
to defence, which might retard his progress.

Marion, somewhat surprised at a flight for which he could not then account, for his own force
was far inferior to that of Doyle, yet saw that the fugitive was beyond present pursuit. He
wheeled about, accordingly, and set his men in motion for another meeting with Watson. That
commander, now strengthened, and just doubling the numbers of our partisan, with fresh supplies
of provisions and military stores, had once more pushed for the Pedee. He took the nearest
route across Black river, at Wragg's Ferry, and, crossing the Pedee at Euhaney, and the Little
Pedee at Potato Ferry, he halted at Catfish Creek, one mile from the present site of Marion
Courthouse. Marion crossed the Pedee, and encamped at the Warhees, within five miles of the
enemy. Here he planted himself, in vigilant watch of the force which he could not openly encounter.
In addition to the want of men, he labored under a still greater want of ammunition. When asked
by Capt. Gavin Witherspoon, whether he meant to fight Watson--a measure which Witherspoon thought
particularly advisable--before he was joined by any more bodies of Tories, he answered, "That
would be best, but we have not ammunition."

"Why, general," said Witherspoon, "my powder-horn is full."

"Ah, my friend!" was the reply of Marion, "YOU are an extraordinary soldier; but for the others,
there are not two rounds to a man."

Thus stood the two parties; and thus it but too frequently stood with our partisan--wanting
the most simple resources by which to make his own genius and the valor of his men apparent.
That the former was alive and equal to emergencies, even in such a condition of necessity,
may be inferred from the fact, that he should dare take such a position, so immediately contiguous
to an enemy double his own force, and abounding in all the requisite materials of war. The
inactivity of Watson is only to be accounted for by his total ignorance of the resourceless
state of Marion's rifles.

While Marion and Watson were thus relatively placed, the former was apprised of the return
of Greene to South Carolina. This intelligence accounted for the hasty retreat of Doyle. He
was summoned by Lord Rawdon to Camden, to strengthen that position against the American force,
which was advancing in that direction. The reappearance of Greene was a source of heartfelt
joy to those who, but a little while before, had anticipated the necessity of flying before
the foe, and taking shelter in the mountains. It was because of the absence of the American
army that Rawdon was enabled, as we have seen, to concentrate his chief force upon Marion.
The presence of Greene, which had caused the recall of Doyle, must, as Marion well knew, effect
that of Watson also. He was preparing himself accordingly, when further advices brought him
news of the approach of Colonel Lee, with the Continental Legion, to his own assistance. He
dispatched a guide to Lee, and by means of boats, which he always kept secreted, the Legion
was transported over the Pedee, and a junction with Marion's force was effected on the fourteenth
of April.

The tidings which had brought such gratification to the camp of Marion, had as inspiring, though
not as grateful an effect in that of Watson. He lost no time in breaking up his encampment.
The safety of Rawdon and Camden was paramount, and, wheeling his two field-pieces into Catfish
Creek, and burning his baggage, as Doyle had done, he sped, with similar precipitation, in
the same direction. The route taken in his flight declared his apprehensions of Marion. He
trembled at the recollection of the recent race between them--the harassings and skirmishings
night and day--the sleepless struggles, and unintermitting alarms. Recrossing the Little Pedee,
and avoiding Euhaney, he passed the Waccamaw at Greene's Ferry, and, retreating through the
Neck, between that river and the sea, crossed Winyaw Bay, three miles in width, and, in this
manner, arrived in Georgetown. A slight glance at any map of the country, keeping in mind that
Watson's object was really Camden, will show the reader the extent of his fears of that wily
and indefatigable enemy from whom he had previously escaped with so much difficulty.

Marion was exceedingly anxious to pursue Watson, but Lee, though subordinate, succeeded in
preventing this desire. Instructions which he brought from Greene, and which he earnestly dwelt
upon, required their cooperation against the British posts below Camden. Lee urged, also, that
such a pursuit would take them too far from Greene, with the movements of whose army it was
important that Marion's force should act as intimately as possible. Marion yielded the point
with great reluctance, and was heard repeatedly after to regret that his orders did not permit
him to follow the dictates of his own judgment. Had he done so, with his force strengthened
by the Continental bayonets, and new supplies of powder for his rifles, Watson's flight to
Georgetown, which he could scarcely have reached, would have been far more uncomfortable than
he found it on the previous occasion.

Lee led the way with his legion towards the Santee, while Marion, placing Witherspoon with
a small party on the trail of Watson, pursued his line of march through Williamsburg. Having
once resolved, Marion's movements were always rapid and energetic. On the fifteenth of April,
only a day after the junction with Lee, he was before Fort Watson.

This was a stockade fort, raised on one of those remarkable elevations of an unknown antiquity
which are usually recognized as Indian mounds. It stands near Scott's Lake on the Santee river,
a few miles below the junction of the Congaree and Wateree. The mound is forty feet in height,
and remote from any other elevation by which it might be commanded. The garrison at this post
consisted of eighty regular troops, and forty loyalists. It was commanded by Lieut. McKay,
a brave officer, of the regular service. To the summons of Marion he returned a manly defiance,
and the place was regularly invested.

Besieged and besiegers were alike without artillery; with a single piece, the former might
well have defied any force which Marion could bring against him. The place would have been
impregnable to the Americans. As it was, its steep sides and strong palisades forbade any attempt
to storm. To cut off the garrison from Scott's Lake, where it procured water, was the first
step taken by the besiegers. But the besieged, by sinking a well within the stockade, below
the level of the contiguous water, counteracted the attempt. For a moment, the assailants were
at fault, and, without artillery, the prospect was sufficiently discouraging. But while doubting
and hesitating, Col. Mayham, of the brigade, suggested a mode of overawing the garrison which
was immediately adopted. At a short distance from the fort there grew a small wood, a number
of the trees of which were hewn down, and transported upon the shoulders of the men within
a proper distance of the mound. Here, during the night, all hands were actively employed in
piling the wood thus brought, in massive and alternate layers, crosswise, until the work had
reached a sufficient elevation. At dawn, the garrison were confounded to find themselves, at
wakening, under a shower of rifle bullets. Thus overlooked, the fort was no longer tenable;
and a party of volunteers from the militia, headed by Ensign Baker, and another of Continentals,
from the legion, led by Mr. Lee, a volunteer, ascended the mound with great intrepidity, and
gained the abbatis, which they proceeded to destroy. This movement brought the garrison to
terms, and a capitulation immediately followed. But the leaguer had consumed eight days, the
progress of which had been watched with equal anxiety by both parties. The Americans apprehended,
and the garrison anticipated, the approach of Watson with an overwhelming force for the relief
of the besieged. But Watson did not appear. He no longer had an overwhelming force. His flight
to Georgetown was marked by loss and desertion. It appears that his panic, or his sense of
duty, led him rather to avoid Marion and to reach Camden without interruption. He very prudently,
therefore, after crossing the Santee, on the route from Georgetown, moved down by Monk's Corner,
added to his force the garrison of that place, and then cautiously advanced to the Santee.
He resolved rather to leave Fort Watson to its fate, than risk a force which might be necessary
to the exigencies of Rawdon. Watson was considered by the British one of their best partisans,
yet never had poor warrior been so worried and harassed, as, with a superior force, he had
been by Marion. Yet, in his second expedition in pursuit of the latter, had he been able to
cooperate with Doyle, with the Tories of Harrison and Gainey, all preparing for the same object,
the escape of our partisan would have been miraculous. At no time, during their pursuit of
him, was his force equal to the smallest one of theirs. He must have been expelled the country,
as he himself seemed to apprehend, or he must have fallen in the conflict.

We have so little at the hands of Marion, in the shape of correspondence, that we are tempted
to give his official letter to General Greene, apprising him of the fall of Fort Watson. It
is dated--

Fort Watson (Scott's Lake), April 23, 1781.

Sir--

Lieut.-Col. Lee made a junction with me at Santee, the 14th inst., after a rapid march from
Ramsay's mill, on Deep River, which he performed in eight days. The 15th we marched to this
place and invested it. Our hope was to cut off their water. Some riflemen and Continentals
immediately took post between the fort and the lake. The fort is situated on a small hill,
forty feet high, stockaded, and with three rows of abbatis round it. No trees near enough to
cover our men from their fire. The third day after we had invested it, we found the enemy had
sunk a well near the stockade which we could not prevent them from [doing]; as we had no entrenching
tools to make our approach, we immediately determined to erect a work equal in height to the
fort. This arduous work was completed this morning by Major Maham, who undertook it. We then
made a lodgment on the side of the mound, near the stockade. This was performed with great
spirit and address by Ensign Johnson, and Mr. Lee, a volunteer in Col. Lee's legion, who with
difficulty ascended the hill and pulled away the abbatis, which induced the commandant to hoist
a flag. Col. Lee and myself agreed to the enclosed capitulation, which I hope may be approved
by you. Our loss on this occasion is two killed, and three Continentals and three militia wounded.
I am particularly indebted to Col. Lee for his advice and indefatigable diligence in every
part of these tedious operations, against as strong a little post as could well be made, and
on the most advantageous spot that could be wished for. The officers and men of the legion
and militia performed everything that could be expected; and Major Maham of my brigade, had,
in a particular manner, a great share of this success by his unwearied diligence in erecting
the tower which principally occasioned the reduction of the fort. In short, sir, I have had
the greatest assistance from every one under my command. Enclosed is a list of the prisoners
and stores taken, and I shall, without loss of time, proceed to demolish the fort; after which
I shall march to the high hills of Santee, encamp at Capt. Richardson's, and await your orders.

(Signed) Francis Marion.

In taking post at the Santee Hills, the object of Marion was to take such a position as would
enable him to watch all the several roads by which Watson could make his way to Camden. It
was important, if possible, to prevent his junction with Lord Rawdon, thus increasing the ability
of that commander to cope with Greene's army, which now lay before that place. But Marion was
not able to encounter Watson without assistance. Lee, with his legion, had been withdrawn by
Greene soon after the capture of Fort Watson, and our partisan's force in camp, from concurring
circumstances, was now reduced to about eighty men. Eighty of his brigade were detached under
Col. Irvine to Rafting Creek, in order to cut off supplies from Camden. Another party was engaged
in watching a rising of the Tories on the Pedee, who, in the absence of Marion himself, had
manifested a disposition to resume the offensive; Col. Harden, with another detachment, was
on the Salkehatchie, having first succeeded in the capture of Fort Balfour at Pocotaligo, in
which he made nearly a hundred prisoners. Other small detachments had thinned the little army
of our partisan to such a degree that it was of small efficiency where it was; and, just at
this juncture, numerous desertions took place from two concurring circumstances. The approach
of Marion to the hills had brought on the battle of Camden. Unwilling that Greene's force should
be increased by the militia of the former, Rawdon had resolved not to wait for Watson, but
to march out and give battle before the coming of either. He did so. The affair was not decisive,
but Greene was compelled to yield the field to his enemy. He lost nothing, whether of honor
or position, by this result. But, as the news spread, the defeat was exaggerated. It was supposed
to be another affair such as that of Gates, and Marion's small body of men was still farther
lessened by desertion. There was still another reason for its present feebleness. The time
of the year was the very height of the planting season, and the farmer-soldiers, in numbers,
left the camp in order to hurry to their homes and set their crops. This, though not allowed
by the regular disciplinarian, was, in the mind of the militia-man, a duty quite as imperative
as any that he owed to his family. Indeed, it was inseparable from his necessities that, where
the Government did not give him bread, he must make it for himself. His family could not starve,
and if he could fight without pay, it was not possible that he should do so without food. In
the sort of warfare which Marion had hitherto carried on, he had been willing to recognize
these necessities on the part of his followers. Cooperating with an army differently constituted,
it was scarcely possible to do so, with any hope of their permanent usefulness. Just at this
juncture, in particular, he felt the peculiarly mortifying character of his situation.

To enable Marion to contend with Watson, Greene dispatched Major Eaton, with a body of Continentals,
to his assistance, with instructions to throw himself across the path of Watson. But Eaton,
by an unhappy misunderstanding of his duty, failed to reach him in season for this object.
When he did join him, which was on the evening of the 2d of May, it was too late. Marion, writing
to Greene, says, "Major Eaton's not coming up sooner has made me lose a great deal of precious
time. I shall cross the Santee at Wright's Bluff to-morrow." He did so, but Watson had already
passed, and succeeded in eluding Greene also, and in reaching Camden in safety.

We have spoken of Col. Harden's proceedings against Fort Balfour, and the capture of that post.
This officer was a very brave and active gentleman, rapid in his movements, and resolute in
his objects. As soon as Marion had received intelligence of Greene's approach to South Carolina,
he had dispatched Harden with seventy select men, well mounted, to penetrate through the country,
and crossing the enemy's lines of communication, to stir up the people in all that region which
lies southwest of Charleston. So rapid and unexpected were his movements, that he took the
enemy everywhere by surprise, and rendered himself, for the time, the very terror of the loyalists
upon the route. His force increased with its progress. The inhabitants yearned for an escape
from British authority, and joined his troop. His seventy men soon became two hundred, and
while he baffled the pursuit of the superior, he visited with sudden and severe chastisement
the disaffected, along and on both sides of the Savannah river. Ascending this, he soon communicated
with Pickens, then operating against Augusta and Ninety-Six. Nothing now was wanting but the
fall of the enemy's chain of posts, to complete the recovery of the whole country within thirty
miles of the sea. In contributing to this desirable object Marion, now strengthened by the
Continentals of Lee and Eaton, invested Fort Motte on the river Congaree.

This post was the principal depot of the convoys from Charleston to Camden, and sometimes of
those destined for Forts Granby and Ninety-Six. A large new mansion-house belonging to Mrs.
Motte, situated on a high and commanding hill, had been chosen for this establishment. It was
surrounded with a deep trench, along the inner margin of which a strong and lofty parapet was
raised. To this post had been assigned a sufficient garrison of one hundred and fifty men.
This force was increased by a small detachment of dragoons from Charleston, which had been
thrown into it a few hours before the appearance of the Americans. The garrison was commanded
by Capt. McPherson, a firm and gallant officer.

Opposite to Fort Motte, to the north, stood another hill, where Mrs. Motte, who had been expelled
from her dwelling, resided in an old farm-house. On this, Lee took position with his corps:
Marion's men occupied the eastern declivity of the same ridge on which stood the fort.

The place was very soon invested. The six pounder with which Greene had furnished Marion, was
mounted on a battery raised in the quarter which he occupied, for the purpose of raking the
northern face of the enemy's parapet. McPherson was in the possession of a wall-piece, but
he had not been able to adapt it for use before the investment took place. It does not seem
to have been even used during the siege. His chief hopes lay in being relieved by a detachment
from Camden, not doubting its arrival before his assailant could push his preparations to maturity.
The works of the latter advanced rapidly, and the place was summoned on the 20th of May. The
reply declared the determination of the besieged to try the strength and patience of the besiegers.
These had now every motive for perseverance. They were advised of the approach of Rawdon, with
all his force, to the relief of the fort. That stern commander, finding Camden was no longer
tenable against the increasing forces of the Americans, and unable to maintain his several
posts with his diminished strength, was aiming to contract his scattered bodies into narrower
limits. Having made a second, but unsatisfactory, demonstration upon Greene, he destroyed his
unnecessary baggage, and, leaving Camden in flames, he once more abandoned it to the Americans.
Greene advised Marion of his retreat, and urged him to expedition. On the next night he reached
the country opposite Fort Motte, and his numerous fires on the highest grounds on his route,
encouraged the garrison with hopes of success, which were not to be realized.

What was to be done, was to be done quickly, on the part of the besiegers. The process of battering
by cannon would be too slow. Some shorter mode was to be adopted, to anticipate the approach
of Rawdon. The ready thought of our partisan suggested this process. It was known that the
large mansion of Mrs. Motte occupied the greater part of the area of the fort; but a few yards
of ground within the works remained uncovered by it. To burn the house by fire would compel
the surrender of the garrison.

The necessity was very reluctantly communicated to the widow by whom the property was owned.
But she was one of those glorious dames of the Revolution, to whom the nation is so largely
indebted for the glory of that event. She had received the American officers with a hospitality
which made them almost shrink from suggesting their purposes; but as soon as they were made
known, she put them perfectly at ease upon the subject. With something more than cheerfulness--with
pride--that any sacrifice on her part should contribute to the success of her countrymen, in
so dear an object, she herself produced a bow, with all the necessary apparatus, which had
been brought from India,* and which she had preserved. By the arrows from this bow the fire
was to be communicated to her dwelling.

     * The origin of this bow, though unimportant, is nonetheless
     the subject of great differences.  James says an "Indian bow
     and arrows", though one would expect he meant "American
     Indian" from the context. Weems implies that it was from
     Africa.--A. L., 1996.--

Everything being in readiness, the lines were manned and an additional force stationed at the
batteries, lest the enemy, in the moment of desperation, might prefer risking an assault, rather
than endure the mortification of a surrender. A flag was sent to McPherson, but the sight of
Rawdon's fires on the other side of the river encouraged him with the belief that he might
still resist successfully.

