In the summer of 1884, near Leesburg, Texas, a well-appointed Negro school was burned by the
whites of that community. The colored people, seeing their hope of years in ashes, advertised
their little holdings for sale, and prepared to leave in a body. But the whites offered to
supplement the insurance on the former building and to re-build the school, if the colored
people would remain in the community. The terms were accepted, and now West Chapel, which is
the name of the school, is excellently furnished and has a $200 bell upon it, and is the best
known school in Northeast Texas. Previous to the burning of West Chapel, the whites were continually
distracted by factional fights. There was general apathy with regard to improvement in any
way whatever. Their teachers were always of the inferior class. But, when they found that the
colored people would have a school, they decided to have one also. The colored people bought
a bell. So did they. The colored people had a foreign teacher. So must they have one, and they
paid $750 a year for him. One of the white citizens of the locality summed the situation up
thus:--"West Chapel is to the whites what a coal of fire is on the back of a terrapin." This
school was organized by a Fisk student and has ever {131} since been taught by students of
Fisk. Thus is the A.M.A. lifting up the Negro directly and the whites indirectly, and establishing
friendly relations between the two.

But this is no isolated case. The story is the same wherever the educated Negro comes in contact
with the whites. At one time, our school was so far in advance of the white school, that I
was told by my school director that "no high-learnt teacher was wanted to teach 'Nigger Schools,'"
and I was actually driven from my school by threats of violence.

The North can better understand the work of the American Missionary Association, when it is
fully understood that the presence of Fisk University in Nashville brought about the existence
of Vanderbilt University. When Fisk began to send out her graduates as refined and upright
gentlemen, and the newspapers were enthusiastic in their accounts of its literary and musical
exhibitions, the white people said; "We must have a university in Nashville also."

In the recent Prohibition campaign in Tennessee, the students of Fisk were one of the chief
factors. In the beginning of the movement, the cry; "Where does Fisk stand on this question?"
went up from the good people all over the State. Fisk was the first college to declare in favor
of the proposed Amendment, and one hundred young men and women went from her walls and fought
valiantly for the cause.

It is due the profound Christian spirit that characterizes the work of the Association to say,
that every student and alumnus of Fisk in the State of Tennessee was an ardent supporter of
the cause, save two. During the campaign the most cordial feelings existed between the better
elements of both races. Heretofore these things were almost unheard of.

There was a time when policy or political expediency had no effect upon the prejudices of the
Southern whites, but the educational process inaugurated by the North is elevating a class
of colored people to a plane where they are respected as never before. No State or Federal
aid can do for us what the A.M.A. is doing. Such aid as the Blair Bill proposed would meet
a certain need, and enable the men that are educated by the A.M.A. to get at the masses; but
the peculiar work of preparing honest and devout Christian leaders must be otherwise provided
for. The complete regeneration of the South is a thing of the future. The A.M.A. must remain
among us to hasten on "the harvest of the golden year."

That the Christianization of the Negro must come from without his own institutions, will be
clearly seen by looking at his present religious condition. The new life that is developing
cannot be crowded into the narrow limits of his church. The moral element is almost entirely
wanting in his creed and doctrine. Such is the condition of the church that moral and spiritual
growth are impossible. He must be educated away from the institutions that attended his enslavement;
as far from them as Canaan is from Egypt. Again, the pulpit, with comparatively few honorable
exceptions, {132} is filled with adventurers and impure ministers. To a great extent this is
true. But signs of a spiritual and moral exodus are everywhere manifest. The judgment of God
rests heavily upon the Negro's temple-worship and the structure tumbles to the ground. Within
the last two years I have seen six of the largest colored churches in Tennessee split on moral
grounds, and the discontent with what is bad, grows among them. The old associations are losing
their power over the rising generation. Intelligent men are seeking to supply their spiritual
and moral wants. The A.M.A. has but to persist in the establishment of its school and church
work among the colored people, with good strong men as ministers, and it is sure to be the
leaven of the church of the future for the Negro people.

Last summer an old father, who had educated four children at Fisk University and had himself
been there on one Commencement occasion, said to me:--"That Fisk school is the buildin'-up-est
place to our people in the world. I never expect to have such a good time and treatment again
until I get to heaven." Thus are our hopes quickened and our aspirations for nobler things
awakened.

But to one who understands the situation, the question of our education is of serious moment.
All our institutions of higher learning are living from hand to mouth, with no endowment, and
the North's purse-strings are growing tighter as the years go by. On the other hand, prejudice
strikes savagely at our State appropriations. This year, in the advanced State of Tennessee,
the white State-student gets one hundred dollars while the colored gets only twenty-two dollars
and a half. In his poverty what can the Negro student do with this sum in the way of educating
himself?

I could take you in the homes of those whom you have educated, then could you appreciate the
wisdom of your investments. It is around the fireside, and in the conduct of the children,
that your noble work is manifesting itself so clearly. The intellectual, moral and spiritual
life found there are the true and only guarantees that old things are passing away.

The abject condition of the great body of Negroes appeals to Christian religion and philanthropy
for the help that must come to redeem their lost minds and souls. The South cannot give them
a Christian education. The cry goes up to the great, warm heart of the North. We crave the
crumbs that fall from your God-given, bountiful table.

  *     *     *     *     *

  A PASTOR'S FIRST VIEW.

  A pastor who was educated at the North and who was graduated at the
  Hartford Theological Seminary, has for the first time made the
  acquaintance of his race in the South. He had never met his own
  people as a race until he entered into the service of the American
  Missionary Association. His impressions and testimony have,
  therefore, an additional interest.

In reference to the field: it is large and interesting, and requires more {133} than ordinary
attention, both to that part of it under cultivation and that which is not yet. I have arranged
my visits in such a way as to make it practicable for me to do justice to both; visiting church
members the last week in each month (except in case of sickness), and using the rest of the
time (apart from other necessary duties) for visits outside.

I am thus brought into direct contact with our people and learn a great deal about their condition.
In some places it does seem actually as if liberty and civilization are still mysteries to them.

When I was in the North and heard or read descriptions of the condition and mode of living
of the colored people of the South, I often thought that those descriptions were very highly
colored, but I am now perfectly cured of all my doubts. My visits furnish me with the most
plausible attestation of the facts. Squalor, with its long train of attendants, may be commonly
seen in every direction, and perhaps not confined to the lower-conditioned of our people either.
The desecration of the Lord's day is actually frightful. It is very literally used as a "day
of rest from labor." On every hand the people are seen resting--resting from labor in the houses,
on the stoops and on the streets, instead of being in the house of God. In very many instances,
however, we succeed in getting some of them to attend church, but the work is somewhat uphill.
I trust that this abnormal condition to which slavery has reduced them will eventually succumb
to the effective educational weapon that is being brought to bear upon them, that of the American
Missionary Association especially, and may the time soon come for the South when the Holy Spirit
working in and through the various missionary Boards, and also other agencies, shall spread
righteousness and education and the true art of living, among these benighted people. I am
praying, others are praying, and you, too, must help us to pray and to wait for the quickening
influences and a fresh baptism of the Holy Spirit.

  *     *     *     *     *

  TALLADEGA FRUIT.

BY MISS E.B. EMERY.

The missions of the American Missionary Association at the South are like orange trees, perennial,
evergreen, and continually bearing golden fruit, and of these there is none more abounding
in vitality than Talladega. All the year round the foliage glistens, the blossoming sheds its
fragrance, and every winter there is an ample harvest. Sometimes one from abroad comes in to
shake the tree and gather the fruit, and sometimes not; but however that may be, the soil is
previously and thoroughly prepared by these consecrated missionaries, the tree is watered and
nourished and tended the year round, and the harvest expected, and it comes.

Are there no spiritual frosts to blight? They are impossible, if the {134} spiritual atmosphere
be kept clear, and the Holy Ghost be a daily and hourly companion and friend.

It is by no means unusual in Talladega for every unbelieving pupil in the boarding department
to be converted. This year there were over forty hopeful conversions, and Rev. James Wharton,
an English evangelist, by his earnest preaching was of very great assistance. It is noticeable
that if any who have had little previous training are converted through the preaching of an
evangelist, they are not likely to hold out well.

On the first Sunday in March, twenty-seven of the converts were received into the college church,
with two from the Baptist Church. More will come later as the fruits of the revival, while
a few will join other churches. Eighteen of the number were young men, and among them were
the two sons of Pres. DeForest, one fourteen, the other nine, years of age.

Prof. G.W. Andrews, D.D., the pastor this year, conducted the services; there was no sermon
proper and no time for any, but there was much of the beautiful music of these colored people;
they sing out their fervid souls with their rich and powerful voices. Nearly all were baptized,
and much more was made of the right hand of fellowship than is usual in any Northern church.
And it is needful for these children, for they will call for constant help months and years
to come. With few exceptions, they are not reared in Christian homes, are not educated from
the cradle in the Christian faith. The services were both solemn and joyful, and very tender
and touching.

Such an avowal is the most significant of all things, anytime, anywhere, but here we know that
every life is to be one of toil and bitter struggle, a fight in which the odds are, to appearances,
all against them; more than all, that this young man, that young woman, with the dusky face,
the mellow voice and the eager spirit, now in covenant with us, is to be a missionary to the
heathen, and of his own people. What may he not accomplish? What may she not do for Christ?
And these heathen are in our own country; they are our own people. These young missionaries
are very peculiarly ours, and it is through the Northern churches that they are trained for
their work. Shall not then those churches adopt them in their hearts, carry them in their prayers,
and let them suffer no lack in their preparation? Their work in the future for the Master's
kingdom will depend very much upon us Christians of the North.

Talladega College is exceedingly prosperous. The day-school is very large; the Sunday-school
packs the chapel, and the Sunday congregation is much too crowded for health or comfort in
a room seating but two hundred and fifty. The college is working all the time, for a church,
earning many small sums. The result, with some gifts, amounts to about $400. Where is the man
or the woman to aid in this godly enterprise? to share in this work so essential and so abundantly
fruitful? {135}

  *     *     *     *     *

  THREE PICTURES FROM LE MOYNE SCHOOL, MEMPHIS, TENN.

BY MISS ESTHER H. BARNES.

I would like to bring before you three pictures which I saw this week. The first is the interior
of a single room. The tattered, soiled bed and the fireplace took up a large part of the room,
and the rest was nearly filled with the confusion of odds and ends that make up the belongings
of such a home. A feeble fire rested on the uneven bricks of the fireplace, and the chimney
above was covered with newspapers in the last stages of dilapidation and dirt. There was no
window, but a little sliding shutter, moved aside a few inches, admitted light enough to make
the darkness visible as it fell on the smoke-stained boards, and the dusky faces of the inmates
seated close to the fire on old chairs and boxes. A home more forlorn than this little pen,
which, with a smaller back shed, is the only residence of at least five human beings, I can
hardly conceive.

Now for a more cheering picture. It is a cozy sitting-room, papered with taste and furnished
in harmony. Everything looks neat, from the snowy bed-spread to the pretty clock on the mantel,
and the dainty bunch of pansies on the wall above. Open doors give glimpses of other rooms
as well ordered as this, while intelligence and kindness beam in the dark faces of gentle mother
and cheery bright-eyed daughters. When people ask us how we can bear to teach "niggers," they
generally have in mind those tattered, lazy persons, who are most wont to show themselves on
the street corners, and so make the deepest impression on the average white mind.

But look at my third picture, and you will see both how we can like our work, and what is one
of the things that make a difference between the second home I have described and the first.
The large school-room is filled. More than one hundred and twenty-five students are arranged
in classes, most of whom are standing in their places ready to pass to recitation rooms. One
of their number is at the piano. Another stands at the desk to give the word of command. Now
he strikes the bell and the pupils in long file pass out, marching with their heads up. Not
a teacher is in sight. Everything is orderly and is running of itself, as it does every day.
This is nothing wonderful, of course, though I know some white schools which could not be trusted
to this degree to the control of monitors. But it is only a sign of the influences that here
lead to self-reliance and self-control. Every year a new set of uncouth and undeveloped young
people come shambling in, looking around with bewildered eyes. But they soon begin to straighten
up and fall into step. Their vague ideas get settled, and their minds, slow at first, wake
up. In a few years they will be made over new, not perfect, but vastly improved. They will
be out teaching, spreading light from scores of new centres, and sending new pupils to "Old
Le Moyne." {136}

  *     *     *     *     *

  THE EVANGELIST AT WORK.

The last night of the three weeks' series of meetings at Marion was a memorable one. Every
night the church, which was a large-sized building, was well filled with an attentive congregation,
hungering and thirsting for the bread and water of life. After singing and prayer and hearing
the testimonies from the young converts present, who told with unmistakable clearness how they
had given their hearts to God, a few words were spoken, especially to them, showing what God
requires of them now they have become Christians. Afterwards the gospel was preached to the
unconverted and an invitation given for those who wished to become Christians to signify their
desire. A number responded, including an old man supposed to be at least ninety years of age.
The old man had long thought of being a Christian, but never could get to the point of decision
until now. He looked back upon his long life of sin; he wept, he prayed, he arose and confessed
that he had then and there taken Christ as his Saviour. Was not he a brand plucked from the
burning?

It was most encouraging to see a young lady bringing along to the pastor's house nearly every
day some two or three of her school companions or friends, to be prayed for and spoken with
about the way of salvation. The Christians worked faithfully visiting the houses of their friends
to pray and speak with them and to bring them out to the meeting at night.

At Mobile, although the first week it rained six days in succession, yet the people came out
well and were repaid for their faithfulness. Every night for the past three weeks large numbers
of all classes have been personally interested, and with the exception of one service, we have
had cause to thank God for conversions. Fathers and mothers are rejoicing over sons and daughters
brought to Christ. A large number of young people from the Sabbath-school as well as from the
day-school have started on the new life. The teachers say that a marked change is observable
and that the young converts seem to be trying their very best to live up to their profession.
Forty-six were received into the church and will have the instruction that is so much needed
by young converts.

One of the teachers and myself, while visiting some of the converts, found five young women
in one house rejoicing in the pardoning love of God. "Truly," said the old grandmother, "salvation
has come to this house." We found that, some years ago, three mothers had died and left five
orphan children, who were taken by the grandmother and who had now grown into womanhood. Two
sisters first became Christians and the others soon followed. One said, "I used to be so fond
of going to the theatre, but now I have no heart for that sort of thing; I mean to live a good
Christian life and do all I can for my Saviour." They were all received into church, and joined
as well the Young People's Society of {137} Christian Endeavor, which is a good thing for young
people, as it trains them for future work, and to be active and useful in the service of Christ.

JAMES WHARTON.

  *     *     *     *     *

THE CHINESE.

  LETTER FROM REV. W.C. POND.

Our anniversary was an occasion of much interest. The attendance was large, and our brethren
acquitted themselves well. The Record-Union, the principal daily of Sacramento, published both
the addresses in full.

We have good news from our evangelists. They are doing great good, if we can judge at all by
what we see: and they are in training, I believe, for larger and better service in the years
to come. I shall have much to write about this for the next Missionary, much more than I can
crowd into the space allowed me.

The new work at San Buenaventura opens finely. It is already one of our largest interior schools;
and two or three, possibly four, of the Chinese have already been led to believe; so that before
Low Quong returns he expects to organize an Association and get Christian work into systematic
operation.

I am greatly pleased also with the reports from Tucson. Yong Jin, who has done excellent evangelistic
work at Santa Cruz, goes to Tucson next week. He is an earnest Christian, and though somewhat
deficient in English is better educated in Chinese and is an excellent preacher.

  *     *     *     *     *

  FOUR MONTHS OF EVANGELISTIC WORK.

BY LOW QUONG.

In January last I was asked to do some evangelistic work in the Northern part of this State.
The first place I visited was Oroville. There we have a branch mission with a fine mission
house, or, we might call it a Chinese church and school combined. The church has a membership
of about fifteen. The evening scholars were usually about twenty or more. This school has a
faithful teacher, and all together makes a fruitful mission. Although I was there only about
a month--yet I enjoyed the work very much, and my acquaintance with the brethren there and
their kindness to me I can never forget. I will now give you some little incidents of my work
there. The town has about three hundred Chinese inhabitants, and most of our brethren and scholars
live in the town, but there were also a good many outside of the town. These are mostly miners.
But even these hard-working men, when they got through their day's work, {138} came to town
at night to attend our evening school; and on Sundays also, to hear the preaching of the gospel.

At the end of the month, when Mr. Pond came to Oroville, we had the Lord's supper in our little
Chinese church. It was held in the evening. One far-away brother was informed by letter, and
he came over a long, rough road to attend the Lord's table. It was about eight o'clock when
he reached the church. We asked him what time he started to walk; he said at one o'clock in
the afternoon. He had walked fully seven hours just for the Lord's supper, and early in the
morning he had to walk back again to his place, while we took the train for Marysville. During
my stay at Oroville, four members were added to the Association and one was baptized and received
to the church. We would have had two, but one had gone to work in a place sixty miles from
town. He had waited for Mr. Pond to come up for nearly a whole month, so he could be baptized,
and he had gone only a week when Mr. Pond came. Lately I have received a letter from him, that
he has returned to Oroville.

The Chinese inhabitants at Oroville are very kind to the Christian Chinese. They never trouble
them and always send their boys to the evening school. I heard not long ago from their teacher,
that the whole mission house has been renovated and a new floor put down at the expense of
the brethren and scholars.

  *     *     *     *     *

  CHIN GAING IN CHINA.

[EXTRACT FROM AN ADDRESS IN ALAMEDA, CAL., BY CHIN GAING.]

It is over eleven years since I left my home in China. Near the end of 1882 I began to attend
the mission school in San Francisco. After being there about two years I joined the Christian
Association, and six months from then I was baptized and joined Bethany Church.

Two years ago I returned to China. My friends there knew that I had changed my religion, and
so, when I went back they asked me many questions.

My relatives wanted to know about the people in this country, what religion they had and what
gods they worshiped. And whether the Chinese who went there believed the same as the American
people.

I told them we believed in one God. They said, "Which one?"

I answered, the one that created the heaven and the earth, and all things in the world and
the sea. The God who has all power and whom we ought to worship.

My mother then came up and said: "Do not talk such things; we are Chinese and must keep our
customs."

I said I could not keep those which were against God. So they said: "If you have anything good,
then keep it."

While in China I could not help seeing how much the people spent in {139} foolishness. They
have so many idol processions, which cost a great deal of money. The people gladly give to
keep up their worship, as they are in darkness and know not the name of Jesus, which is the
only name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved.

But how shall they believe in Him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without
a preacher?

And so it is written, "How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace."

  *     *     *     *     *

"Twenty-three unanswered letters look down upon me. Eighteen came to-day." Such is the burdened
sigh of one of our earnest, self-denying missionaries, who is upon the mission field that she
may relieve the suffering, teach the ignorant and save souls, and for whom the days are all
too short for these duties alone.

Have our readers ever felt the burden of unanswered letters? Pastors, Sunday-school teachers,
housekeepers--busy people that you are--have you ever felt the twinge of unrest, almost discouragement,
because some friendly letter, which you enjoyed receiving, lay unanswered waiting a spare hour?
And have you ever had to "brace up" to what, in a life of leisure might be a pastime, but in
a life so full of care and responsibility becomes a task? Then you will surely be ready unselfishly
to

  SPARE OUR TEACHERS.

How can it be done? Not by withholding your letters from them. If any missionaries anywhere
need words of appreciation and good cheer they are those who year after year sacrifice social
life and religious privileges to mingle with the ignorant, uncultured--yes, and impure--that
they may lift them up into the healthful ways of righteousness. Write to them, encourage {140}
them, but do not ask for a special letter for your next missionary meeting. Tell them not to
write, that you have heard or can hear from them every month through their letters sent to
the officers at New York and that you learn of the work through the A.M.A. magazine. Thank
them for making this monthly missionary letter so full and interesting.

"But that monthly letter is a copied letter," some one answers, "and we wish our teacher to
write to us, to us alone, and in her own hand." Yes, it is a copied letter in order that it
may be sent to others who are interested in, and helping, the same work, and that the missionaries'
time may be given to the work about them instead of being spent so largely in writing. But
it is a fresh letter. It has the latest monthly news and was written for you, and if not in
the same hand is as truly yours as a typewritten letter, which is the sort most of us receive
and give in the high-work pressure of now-a-days.

We provide The American Missionary, furnish our printed leaflets freely, and will send the
monthly missionary letters to all who desire to hear thus from their contributions--as we hope
all do--thus giving the very best information that the field affords; but we most earnestly
hope the missionaries may be allowed their time for their missionary duties pressing upon them.
The Missionary is the word from your missionary. Read it, and if you do not like it, write
us, and we will try again next month.

  *     *     *     *     *

RECEIPTS FOR MARCH, 1888.

   MAINE, $146.84.

