He had spent most of his life in a sequestered village in Little Russia, where he tilled the
soil and even wore the national peasant costume. When his son and only child, a poor widower
with a boy of twelve on his hands, emigrated to America, the father's heart bled. Yet he chose
to stay in his native village at all hazards, and to die there. One day, however, a letter
arrived from the son that he was sick; this sad news was followed by words of a more cheerful
nature--"and your grandson Moses goes to public school. He is almost an American; and he is
not forced to forget the God of Israel. He will soon be confirmed. His Bar Mitsva is near."
Zelig's wife wept three days and nights upon the receipt of this letter. The old man said little;
but he began to sell his few possessions.

To face the world outside his village spelled agony to the poor rustic. Still he thought he
would get used to the new home which his son had chosen. But the strange journey with locomotive
and steamship bewildered him dreadfully; and the clamor of the metropolis, into which he was
flung pell-mell, altogether stupefied him. With a vacant air he regarded the Pandemonium, and
a petrifaction of his inner being seemed to take place. He became "a barrel with a stave missing."
No spark of animation visited his eye. Only one thought survived in his brain, and one desire
pulsed in his heart: to save money enough for himself and family to hurry back to his native
village. Blind and dead to everything, he moved about with a dumb, lacerating pain in his heart,--he
longed for home. Before he found steady employment, he walked daily with titanic strides through
the entire length of Manhattan, while children and even adults often slunk into byways to let
him pass. Like a huge monster he seemed, with an arrow in his vitals.

In the shop where he found a job at last, the workmen feared him at first; but, ultimately
finding him a harmless giant, they more than once hurled their sarcasms at his head. Of the
many men and women employed there, only one person had the distinction of getting fellowship
from old Zelig. That person was the Gentile watchman or janitor of the shop, a little blond
Pole with an open mouth and frightened eyes. And many were the witticisms aimed at this uncouth
pair. "The big one looks like an elephant," the joker of the shop would say; "only he likes
to be fed on pennies instead of peanuts."

"Oi, oi, his nose would betray him," the "philosopher" of the shop chimed in; and during the
dinner hour he would expatiate thus: "You see, money is his blood. He starves himself to have
enough dollars to go back to his home: the Pole told me all about it. And why should he stay
here? Freedom of religion means nothing to him, he never goes to synagogue; and freedom of
the press? Bah--he never even reads the conservative Tageblatt!"

Old Zelig met such gibes with stoicism. Only rarely would he turn up the whites of his eyes,
as if in the act of ejaculation; but he would soon contract his heavy brows into a scowl and
emphasize the last with a heavy thump of his sizzling iron.

When the frightful cry of the massacred Jews in Russia rang across the Atlantic, and the Ghetto
of Manhattan paraded one day through the narrow streets draped in black, through the erstwhile
clamorous thoroughfares steeped in silence, stores and shops bolted, a wail of anguish issuing
from every door and window--the only one remaining in his shop that day was old Zelig. His
fellow-workmen did not call upon him to join the procession. They felt the incongruity of "this
brute" in line with mourners in muffled tread. And the Gentile watchman reported the next day
that the moment the funeral dirge of the music echoed from a distant street, Zelig snatched
off the greasy cap he always wore, and in confusion instantly put it on again. "All the rest
of the day," the Pole related with awe, "he looked wilder than ever, and so thumped with his
iron on the cloth that I feared the building would come down."

But Zelig paid little heed to what was said about him. He dedicated his existence to the saving
of his earnings, and only feared that he might be compelled to spend some of them. More than
once his wife would be appalled in the dark of night by the silhouette of old Zelig in nightdress,
sitting up in bed and counting a bundle of bank notes which he always replaced under his pillow.
She frequently upbraided him for his niggardly nature, for his warding off all requests outside
the pittance for household expense. She pleaded, exhorted, wailed. He invariably answered:
"I haven't a cent by my soul." She pointed to the bare walls, the broken furniture, their beggarly
attire.

"Our son is ill," she moaned. "He needs special food and rest; and our grandson is no more
a baby; he'll soon need money for his studies. Dark is my world; you are killing both of them."

Zelig's color vanished; his old hands shook with emotion. The poor woman thought herself successful,
but the next moment he would gasp: "Not a cent by my soul."

One day old Zelig was called from his shop, because his son had a sudden severe attack; and,
as he ascended the stairs of his home, a neighbor shouted: "Run for a doctor; the patient cannot
be revived." A voice as if from a tomb suddenly sounded in reply, "I haven't a cent by my soul."

The hallway was crowded with the ragged tenants of the house, mostly women and children; from
far off were heard the rhythmic cries of the mother. The old man stood for a moment as if chilled
from the roots of his hair to the tips of his fingers. Then the neighbors heard his sepulchral
mumble: "I'll have to borrow somewheres, beg some one," as he retreated down the stairs. He
brought a physician; and when the grandson asked for money to go for the medicine, Zelig snatched
the prescription and hurried away, still murmuring: "I'll have to borrow, I'll have to beg."

Late that night, the neighbors heard a wail issuing from old Zelig's apartment; and they understood
that the son was no more.

Zelig's purse was considerably thinned. He drew from it with palsied fingers for all burial
expenses, looking about him in a dazed way. Mechanically he performed the Hebrew rites for
the dead, which his neighbors taught him. He took a knife and made a deep gash in his shabby
coat; then he removed his shoes, seated himself on the floor, and bowed his poor old head,
tearless, benumbed.

The shop stared when the old man appeared after the prescribed three days' absence. Even the
Pole dared not come near him. A film seemed to coat his glaring eye; deep wrinkles contracted
his features, and his muscular frame appeared to shrink even as one looked. From that day on,
he began to starve himself more than ever. The passion for sailing back to Russia, "to die
at home at last," lost but little of its original intensity. Yet there was something now which
by a feeble thread bound him to the New World.

In a little mound on the Base Achaim, the "House of Life," under a tombstone engraved with
old Hebrew script, a part of himself lay buried. But he kept his thoughts away from that mound.
How long and untiringly he kept on saving! Age gained on him with rapid strides. He had little
strength left for work, but his dream of home seemed nearing its realization. Only a few more
weeks, a few more months! And the thought sent a glow of warmth to his frozen frame. He would
even condescend now to speak to his wife concerning the plans he had formed for their future
welfare, more especially when she revived her pecuniary complaints.

"See what you have made of us, of the poor child," she often argued, pointing to the almost
grown grandson. "Since he left school, he works for you, and what will be the end?"

At this, Zelig's heart would suddenly clutch, as if conscious of some indistinct, remote fear.
His answers touching the grandson were abrupt, incoherent, as of one who replies to a question
unintelligible to him and is in constant dread lest his interlocutor should detect it.

Bitter misgivings concerning the boy began to mingle with the reveries of the old man. At first,
he hardly gave a thought to him. The boy grew noiselessly. The ever-surging tide of secular
studies that runs so high on the East Side caught this boy in its wave. He was quietly preparing
himself for college. In his eagerness to accumulate the required sum, Zelig paid little heed
to what was going on around him; and now, on the point of victory, he became aware with growing
dread of something abrewing out of the common. He sniffed suspiciously; and one evening he
overheard the boy talking to grandma about his hatred of Russian despotism, about his determination
to remain in the States. He ended by entreating her to plead with grandpa to promise him the
money necessary for a college education.

Old Zelig swooped down upon them with wild eyes. "Much you need it, you stupid," he thundered
at the youngster in unrestrained fury. "You will continue your studies in Russia, durak, stupid."
His timid wife, however, seemed suddenly to gather courage and she exploded: "Yes, you should
give your savings for the child's education here. Woe is me, in the Russian universities no
Jewish children are taken."

Old Zelig's face grew purple. He rose and abruptly seated himself again. Then he rushed madly,
with a raised, menacing arm, at the boy in whom he saw the formidable foe--the foe he had so
long been dreading.

But the old woman was quick to interpose with a piercing shriek: "You madman, look at the sick
child; you forget from what our son died, going out like a flickering candle."

That night Zelig tossed feverishly on his bed. He could not sleep. For the first time, it dawned
upon him what his wife meant by pointing to the sickly appearance of the child. When the boy's
father died, the physician declared that the cause was tuberculosis.

He rose to his feet. Beads of cold sweat glistened on his forehead, trickled down his cheeks,
his beard. He stood pale and panting. Like a startling sound, the thought entered his mind--the
boy, what should be done with the boy?

The dim, blue night gleamed in through the windows. All was shrouded in the city silence, which
yet has a peculiar, monotonous ring in it. Somewhere, an infant awoke with a sickly cry which
ended in a suffocating cough. The grizzled old man bestirred himself, and with hasty steps
he tiptoed to the place where the boy lay. For a time he stood gazing on the pinched features,
the under-sized body of the lad; then he raised one hand, passed it lightly over the boy's
hair, stroking his cheeks and chin. The boy opened his eyes, looked for a moment at the shriveled
form bending over him, then he petulantly closed them again.

"You hate to look at granpa, he is your enemy, eh?" The aged man's voice shook, and sounded
like that of the child's awaking in the night. The boy made no answer; but the old man noticed
how the frail body shook, how the tears rolled, washing the sunken cheeks.

For some moments he stood mute, then his form literally shrank to that of a child's as he bent
over the ear of the boy and whispered hoarsely: "You are weeping, eh? Granpa is your enemy,
you stupid! To-morrow I will give you the money for the college. You hate to look at granpa;
he is your enemy, eh?"

THE SURVIVORS[18]

A Memorial Day Story

BY ELSIE SINGMASTER

From The Outlook

[18] Copyright, 1915, by The Outlook Company. Copyright, 1916, by Elsie
     Singmaster Lewars

In the year 1868, when Memorial Day was instituted, Fosterville had thirty-five men in its
parade. Fosterville was a border town; in it enthusiasm had run high, and many more men had
enlisted than those required by the draft. All the men were on the same side but Adam Foust,
who, slipping away, joined himself to the troops of his mother's Southern State. It could not
have been any great trial for Adam to fight against most of his companions in Fosterville,
for there was only one of them with whom he did not quarrel. That one was his cousin Henry,
from whom he was inseparable, and of whose friendship for any other boys he was intensely jealous.
Henry was a frank, open-hearted lad who would have lived on good terms with the whole world
if Adam had allowed him to.

Adam did not return to Fosterville until the morning of the first Memorial Day, of whose establishment
he was unaware. He had been ill for months, and it was only now that he had earned enough to
make his way home. He was slightly lame, and he had lost two fingers of his left hand. He got
down from the train at the station, and found himself at once in a great crowd. He knew no
one, and no one seemed to know him. Without asking any questions, he started up the street.
He meant to go, first of all, to the house of his cousin Henry, and then to set about making
arrangements to resume his long-interrupted business, that of a saddler, which he could still
follow in spite of his injury.

As he hurried along he heard the sound of band music, and realized that some sort of a procession
was advancing. With the throng about him he pressed to the curb. The tune was one which he
hated; the colors he hated also; the marchers, all but one, he had never liked. There was Newton
Towne, with a sergeant's stripe on his blue sleeve; there was Edward Green, a captain; there
was Peter Allinson, a color-bearer. At their head, taller, handsomer, dearer than ever to Adam's
jealous eyes, walked Henry Foust. In an instant of forgetfulness Adam waved his hand. But Henry
did not see; Adam chose to think that he saw and would not answer. The veterans passed, and
Adam drew back and was lost in the crowd.

But Adam had a parade of his own. In the evening, when the music and the speeches were over
and the half-dozen graves of those of Fosterville's young men who had been brought home had
been heaped with flowers, and Fosterville sat on doorsteps and porches talking about the day,
Adam put on a gray uniform and walked from one end of the village to the other. These were
people who had known him always; the word flew from step to step. Many persons spoke to him,
some laughed, and a few jeered. To no one did Adam pay any heed. Past the house of Newton Towne,
past the store of Ed Green, past the wide lawn of Henry Foust, walked Adam, his hands clasped
behind his back, as though to make more perpendicular than perpendicularity itself that stiff
backbone. Henry Foust ran down the steps and out to the gate.

"Oh, Adam!" cried he.

Adam stopped, stock-still. He could see Peter Allinson and Newton Towne, and even Ed Green,
on Henry's porch. They were all having ice-cream and cake together.

"Well, what?" said he, roughly.

"Won't you shake hands with me?"

"No," said Adam.

"Won't you come in?"

"Never."

Still Henry persisted.

"Some one might do you harm, Adam."

"Let them!" said Adam.

Then Adam walked on alone. Adam walked alone for forty years.

Not only on Memorial Day did he don his gray uniform and make the rounds of the village. When
the Fosterville Grand Army Post met on Friday evenings in the post room, Adam managed to meet
most of the members either going or returning. He and his gray suit became gradually so familiar
to the village that no one turned his head or glanced up from book or paper to see him go by.
He had from time to time a new suit, and he ordered from somewhere in the South a succession
of gray, broad-brimmed military hats. The farther the war sank into the past, the straighter
grew old Adam's back, the prouder his head. Sometimes, early in the forty years, the acquaintances
of his childhood, especially the women, remonstrated with him.

"The war's over, Adam," they would say. "Can't you forget it?"

"Those G.A.R. fellows don't forget it," Adam would answer. "They haven't changed their principles.
Why should I change mine?"

"But you might make up with Henry."

"That's nobody's business but my own."

"But when you were children you were never separated. Make up, Adam."

"When Henry needs me, I'll help him," said Adam.

"Henry will never need you. Look at all he's got!"

"Well, then, I don't need him," declared Adam, as he walked away. He went back to his saddler
shop, where he sat all day stitching. He had ample time to think of Henry and the past.

"Brought up like twins!" he would say. "Sharing like brothers! Now he has a fine business and
a fine house and fine children, and I have nothing. But I have my principles. I ain't never
truckled to him. Some day he'll need me, you'll see!"

As Adam grew older, it became more and more certain that Henry would never need him for anything.
Henry tried again and again to make friends, but Adam would have none of him. He talked more
and more to himself as he sat at his work.

"Used to help him over the brook and bait his hook for him. Even built corn-cob houses for
him to knock down, that much littler he was than me. Stepped out of the race when I found he
wanted Annie. He might ask me for something!" Adam seemed often to be growing childish.

By the year 1875 fifteen of Fosterville's thirty-five veterans had died. The men who survived
the war were, for the most part, not strong men, and weaknesses established in prisons and
on long marches asserted themselves. Fifteen times the Fosterville Post paraded to the cemetery
and read its committal service and fired its salute. For these parades Adam did not put on
his gray uniform.

During the next twenty years deaths were fewer. Fosterville prospered as never before; it built
factories and an electric car line. Of all its enterprises Henry Foust was at the head. He
enlarged his house and bought farms and grew handsomer as he grew older. Everybody loved him;
all Fosterville, except Adam, sought his company. It seemed sometimes as though Adam would
almost die from loneliness and jealousy.

"Henry Foust sittin' with Ed Green!" said Adam to himself, as though he could never accustom
his eyes to this phenomenon. "Henry consortin' with Newt Towne!"

The Grand Army post also grew in importance. It paraded each year with more ceremony; it imported
fine music and great speakers for Memorial Day.

Presently the sad procession to the cemetery began once more. There was a long, cold winter,
with many cases of pneumonia, and three veterans succumbed; there was an intensely hot summer,
and twice in one month the post read its committal service and fired its salute. A few years
more, and the post numbered but three. Past them still on post evenings walked Adam, head in
air, hands clasped behind his back. There was Edward Green, round, fat, who puffed and panted;
there was Newton Towne, who walked, in spite of palsy, as though he had won the battle of Gettysburg;
there was, last of all, Henry Foust, who at seventy-five was hale and strong. Usually a tall
son walked beside him, or a grandchild clung to his hand. He was almost never alone; it was
as though every one who knew him tried to have as much as possible of his company. Past him
with a grave nod walked Adam. Adam was two years older than Henry; it required more and more
stretching of arms behind his back to keep his shoulders straight.

In April Newton Towne was taken ill and died. Edward Green was terrified, though he considered
himself, in spite of his shortness of breath, a strong man.

"Don't let anything happen to you, Henry," he would say. "Don't let anything get you, Henry.
I can't march alone."

"I'll be there," Henry would reassure him. Only one look at Henry, and the most alarmed would
have been comforted.

"It would kill me to march alone," said Edward Green.

As if Fosterville realized that it could not continue long to show its devotion to its veterans,
it made this year special preparations for Memorial Day. The Fosterville Band practiced elaborate
music, the children were drilled in marching. The children were to precede the veterans to
the cemetery and were to scatter flowers over the graves. Houses were gayly decorated, flags
and banners floated in the pleasant spring breeze. Early in the morning carriages and wagons
began to bring in the country folk.

Adam Foust realized as well as Fosterville that the parades of veterans were drawing to their
close.

"This may be the last time I can show my principles," said he, with grim setting of his lips.
"I will put on my gray coat early in the morning."

Though the two veterans were to march to the cemetery, carriages were provided to bring them
home. Fosterville meant to be as careful as possible of its treasures.

"I don't need any carriage to ride in, like Ed Green," said Adam proudly. "I could march out
and back. Perhaps Ed Green will have to ride out as well as back."

But Edward Green neither rode nor walked. The day turned suddenly warm, the heat and excitement
accelerated his already rapid breathing, and the doctor forbade his setting foot to the ground.

"But I will!" cried Edward, in whom the spirit of war still lived.

"No," said the doctor.

"Then I will ride."

"You will stay in bed," said the doctor.

So without Edward Green the parade was formed. Before the court-house waited the band, and
the long line of school-children, and the burgess, and the fire company, and the distinguished
stranger who was to make the address, until Henry Foust appeared, in his blue suit, with his
flag on his breast and his bouquet in his hand. On each side of him walked a tall, middle-aged
son, who seemed to hand him over reluctantly to the marshal, who was to escort him to his place.
Smilingly he spoke to the marshal, but he was the only one who smiled or spoke. For an instant
men and women broke off in the middle of their sentences, a husky something in their throats;
children looked up at him with awe. Even his own grand-children did not dare to wave or call
from their places in the ranks. Then the storm of cheers broke.

Round the next corner Adam Foust waited. He was clad in his gray uniform--those who looked
at him closely saw with astonishment that it was a new uniform; his brows met in a frown, his
gray moustache seemed to bristle.

"How he hates them!" said one citizen of Fosterville to another. "Just look at poor Adam!"

"Used to bait his hook for him," Adam was saying. "Used to carry him pick-a-back! Used to go
halves with him on everything. Now he walks with Ed Green!"

Adam pressed forward to the curb. The band was playing "Marching Through Georgia," which he
hated; everybody was cheering. The volume of sound was deafening.

"Cheering Ed Green!" said Adam. "Fat! Lazy! Didn't have a wound. Dare say he hid behind a tree!
Dare say--"

The band was in sight now, the back of the drum-major appeared, then all the musicians swung
round the corner. After them came the little children with their flowers and their shining faces.

"Him and Ed Green next," said old Adam.

But Henry walked alone. Adam's whole body jerked in his astonishment. He heard some one say
that Edward Green was sick, that the doctor had forbidden him to march, or even to ride. As
he pressed nearer the curb he heard the admiring comments of the crowd.

"Isn't he magnificent!"

"See his beautiful flowers! His grandchildren always send him his flowers."

"He's our first citizen."

"He's mine!" Adam wanted to cry out. "He's mine!"

Never had Adam felt so miserable, so jealous, so heartsick. His eyes were filled with the great
figure. Henry was, in truth, magnificent, not only in himself, but in what he represented.
He seemed symbolic of a great era of the past, and at the same time of a new age which was
advancing. Old Adam understood all his glory.

"He's mine!" said old Adam again, foolishly.

Then Adam leaned forward with startled, staring eyes. Henry had bowed and smiled in answer
to the cheers. Across the street his own house was a mass of color--red, white, and blue over
windows and doors, gay dresses on the porch. On each side the pavement was crowded with a shouting
multitude. Surely no hero had ever had a more glorious passage through the streets of his birthplace!

But old Adam saw that Henry's face blanched, that there appeared suddenly upon it an expression
of intolerable pain. For an instant Henry's step faltered and grew uncertain.

Then old Adam began to behave like a wild man. He pushed himself through the crowd, he flung
himself upon the rope as though to tear it down, he called out, "Wait! wait!" Frightened women,
fearful of some sinister purpose, tried to grasp and hold him. No man was immediately at hand,
or Adam would have been seized and taken away. As for the feeble women--Adam shook them off
and laughed at them.

"Let me go, you geese!" said he.

A mounted marshal saw him and rode down upon him; men started from under the ropes to pursue
him. But Adam eluded them or outdistanced them. He strode across an open space with a surety
which gave no hint of the terrible beating of his heart, until he reached the side of Henry.
Him he greeted, breathlessly and with terrible eagerness.

"Henry," said he, gasping, "Henry, do you want me to walk along?"

Henry saw the alarmed crowds, he saw the marshal's hand stretched to seize Adam, he saw most
clearly of all the tearful eyes under the beetling brows. Henry's voice shook, but he made
himself clear.

"It's all right," said he to the marshal. "Let him be."

"I saw you were alone," said Adam. "I said, 'Henry needs me.' I know what it is to be alone. I--"

But Adam did not finish his sentence. He found a hand on his, a blue arm linked tightly in
his gray arm, he felt himself moved along amid thunderous roars of sound.

"Of course I need you!" said Henry. "I've needed you all along."

Then, old but young, their lives almost ended, but themselves immortal, united, to be divided
no more, amid an ever-thickening sound of cheers, the two marched down the street.

THE YELLOW CAT[19]

BY WILBUR DANIEL STEELE

From Harper's Magazine

[19] Copyright 1915, by Harper and Brothers. Copyright, 1916, by Wilbur
     Daniel Steele.

At least once in my life I have had the good fortune to board a deserted vessel at sea. I say
"good fortune" because it has left me the memory of a singular impression. I have felt a ghost
of the same thing two or three times since then, when peeping through the doorway of an abandoned
house.

Now that vessel was not dead. She was a good vessel, a sound vessel, even a handsome vessel,
in her blunt-bowed, coastwise way. She sailed under four lowers across as blue and glittering
a sea as I have ever known, and there was not a point in her sailing that one could lay a finger
upon as wrong. And yet, passing that schooner at two miles, one knew, somehow, that no hand
was on her wheel. Sometimes I can imagine a vessel, stricken like that, moving over the empty
spaces of the sea, carrying it off quite well were it not for that indefinable suggestion of
a stagger; and I can think of all those ocean gods, in whom no landsman will ever believe,
looking at one another and tapping their foreheads with just the shadow of a smile.

I wonder if they all scream--these ships that have lost their souls? Mine screamed. We heard
her voice, like nothing I have ever heard before, when we rowed under her counter to read her
name--the Marionnette it was, of Halifax. I remember how it made me shiver, there in the full
blaze of the sun, to hear her going on so, railing and screaming in that stark fashion. And
I remember, too, how our footsteps, pattering through the vacant internals in search of that
haggard utterance, made me think of the footsteps of hurrying warders roused in the night.

And we found a parrot in a cage; that was all. It wanted water. We gave it water and went away
to look things over, keeping pretty close together, all of us. In the quarters the table was
set for four. Two men had begun to eat, by the evidence of the plates. Nowhere in the vessel
was there any sign of disorder, except one sea-chest broken out, evidently in haste. Her papers
were gone and the stern davits were empty. That is how the case stood that day, and that is
how it has stood to this. I saw this same Marionnette a week later, tied up to a Hoboken dock,
where she awaited news from her owners; but even there, in the midst of all the water-front
bustle, I could not get rid of the feeling that she was still very far away--in a sort of shippish
other-world.

The thing happens now and then. Sometimes half a dozen years will go by without a solitary
wanderer of this sort crossing the ocean paths, and then in a single season perhaps several
of them will turn up: vacant waifs, impassive and mysterious--a quarter-column of tidings tucked
away on the second page of the evening paper.

That is where I read the story about the Abbie Rose. I recollect how painfully awkward and
out-of-place it looked there, cramped between ruled black edges and smelling of landsman's
ink--this thing that had to do essentially with air and vast colored spaces. I forget the exact
words of the heading--something like "Abandoned Craft Picked Up At Sea"--but I still have the
clipping itself, couched in the formal patter of the marine-news writer:

"The first hint of another mystery of the sea came in to-day when the schooner Abbie Rose dropped
anchor in the upper river, manned only by a crew of one. It appears that the out-bound freighter
Mercury sighted the Abbie Rose off Block Island on Thursday last, acting in a suspicious manner.
A boat-party sent aboard found the schooner in perfect order and condition, sailing under four
lower sails, the topsails being pursed up to the mastheads but not stowed. With the exception
of a yellow cat, the vessel was found to be utterly deserted, though her small boat still hung
in the davits. No evidences of disorder were visible in any part of the craft. The dishes were
washed up, the stove in the galley was still slightly warm to the touch, everything in its
proper place with the exception of the vessel's papers, which were not to be found.

"All indications being for fair weather, Captain Rohmer of the Mercury detailed two of his
company to bring the find back to this port, a distance of one hundred and fifteen miles. The
only man available with a knowledge of the fore-and-aft rig was Stewart McCord, the second
engineer. A seaman by the name of Björnsen was sent with him. McCord arrived this noon, after
a very heavy voyage of five days, reporting that Björnsen had fallen overboard while shaking
out the foretopsail. McCord himself showed evidences of the hardships he has passed through,
being almost a nervous wreck."

