In the communities most directly benefited by the Bridge the demonstration was confined to
no class or body of the populace. It was a holiday for high and low, rich and poor; it was,
in fact, the People's Day. More delightful weather never dawned upon a festal morning. The
heavens were radiant with the celestial blue of approaching summer; silvery fragments of cloud
sailed gracefully across the firmament like winged messengers, bearing greetings of work well
done; the clearest of spring sunshine tinged everything with a touch of gold, and a brisk,
bracing breeze blown up from the Atlantic cooled the atmosphere to a healthful and invigorating
temperature. The incoming dawn revealed the twin cities gorgeous in gala attire. From towering
steeple and lofty façade, from the fronts of business houses and the cornices and walls of
private dwellings, from the forests of shipping along the wharves and the vessels in the dimpled
bay, floated bunting fashioned in every conceivable design, while high above all, from the
massive and enduring granite towers of the Bridge the Stars and Stripes signaled to the world
from the gateway of the continent the arrival of the auspicious day.

Almost before the sun was up the thoroughfares of both cities put on a festival appearance.
Business was generally suspended. The mercantile and professional communities vied with one
another in the extent and splendor of their decorations, while from the hearty voice of Labor
arose a chorus of ringing acclamation. Tens of thousands of men, women and children crowded
into the streets, and, after gazing admiringly upon the decorations, wended their way in the
direction of the mighty river span. From neighboring cities and from the adjacent country for
many miles around the incoming trains brought multitudes of excursionists and sight-seers.
It seemed marvelous that they could all find accommodation, but the generous hospitality of
the cities was cordially extended, and all were adequately provided for. The scenes presented
during the day upon the streets and avenues of New York and Brooklyn will never be forgotten
by those who witnessed them. Notwithstanding the enormous massing of people, the best of order
was everywhere observable, and the day happily was free from any accident of a serious nature.
The arrangements for the celebration were of a sensible and becoming character, and beside
insuring an unobstructed and speedy course for the ceremonies, contributed beyond measure to
the popular enjoyment.

Early in the afternoon the President of the United States, Gen. Chester A. Arthur, and the
Hon. Grover Cleveland, Governor of the State of New York, the former accompanied by the members
of his Cabinet and the latter by the officers of his Staff, were escorted from the Fifth Avenue
Hotel to the New York City Hall, where they were joined by his Honor Mayor Franklin Edson and
the New York officials. From the City Hall the procession proceeded to the New York Approach
to the Bridge. The Seventh Regiment, N.G., S.N.Y., Col. Emmons Clark, commanding, acted as
escort to the Presidential and Gubernatorial party. The regimental band, of 75 pieces, headed
the column and played popular airs as the procession moved along the crowded and gaily decorated
thoroughfares. At the New York Tower a battalion of the Fifth United States Artillery, under
command of Major Jackson, joined the escort, and between the lines of brilliantly uniformed
troops the distinguished guests passed upon the roadway. They were formally received by a Committee
of the Bridge Trustees, headed by Mr. William C. Kingsley, Vice-President and acting President
of the Board.

The arrival at the New York Tower was proclaimed to the multitudes on shore by the thundering
of many cannon. Salutes were fired from the forts in the harbor, from the United States Navy
Yard, and from the summit of Fort Greene. The United States fleet, consisting of the "Tennessee,"
the "Yantic," the "Kearsarge," the "Vandalia," and the "Minnesota," Rear-Admiral George H.
Cooper, commanding, was anchored in the river below the Bridge and joined in the salute. As
the procession moved across the roadway the yards of the men-of-war were manned, and from the
docks and factories arose a tremendous babel of sounds, caused by the clanging of bells, the
roaring of steam whistles, and the cheers of enthusiastic people, while sounding from afar,
in delightful contrast with the clamorous discord, the silver chimes of Trinity rang out upon
the river.

In the ornate iron railway depot at the Brooklyn terminus, where the exercises were to take
place, the arrival of the approaching procession was anxiously awaited. The interior was bright
with tasteful decorations, the prevailing feature being the sky-blue hangings of satin bordered
with silver, and the coats-of-arms of the States appropriately interspersed amid a forest of
flags. On the Brooklyn side the duties of escort were transferred to the 23d Regiment, N.G.,
S.N.Y., Colonel Rodney C. Ward commanding. The regiment appeared upon this occasion for the
first time in their new State service uniform, and performed their duties most efficiently.
The arrangements for the procession and exercises were under the direction of Major-General
James Jourdan, commanding the Second Division, N.G., S.N.Y., who was ably assisted by the members
of the Division Staff. The building was thronged in every part. In the throng were many of
the most conspicuous citizens of New York and other States, including representatives of the
bench, the bar, the pulpit, the press, and all other professions. Beside the President and
his Cabinet, consisting of the Hon. Charles J. Folger, Secretary of the Treasury; the Hon.
William E. Chandler, Secretary of the Navy; the Hon. Henry M. Teller, Secretary of the Interior;
the Hon. Walter Q. Gresham, Postmaster-General, and the Hon. Benjamin Harris Brewster, Attorney-General;
and Governor Cleveland and Staff, there were present the Governors of several States and the
Mayors of nearly all the cities in the vicinity of the metropolis. In the vast assemblage none
were more conspicuous than the officers of the Army and Navy, who occupied an entire section
and attracted general attention.

When the Presidential party and their escort entered the hall they were greeted with enthusiastic
cheers. They occupied seats directly opposite the stand erected for the orators of the day.
The exercises proceeded without delay in an orderly manner, and were appropriate and impressive
throughout. Music was furnished during the ceremonies by the bands of the Seventh and Twenty-third
regiments. The Hon. James S.T. Stranahan presided with the skill and dignity gained during
his long experience in public life. Near him were the speakers, Mr. William C. Kingsley, Rev.
Richard S. Storrs, D.D., the Hon. Abram S. Hewitt, Mayor Franklin Edson, of New York, and Mayor
Seth Low, of Brooklyn, together with the members of the Board of Bridge Trustees. Mr. Stranahan
opened the ceremonies by introducing Bishop Littlejohn, who wore the Episcopal robes. The Bishop
fervently and impressively made the opening prayer, the great assemblage bowing their heads
reverentially during its delivery. Vice-President Kingsley was next introduced, and was received
with hearty applause. Mr. Kingsley, in clear and distinct tones, and in comprehensive and business-like
terms, proceeded to make the formal speech presenting the Bridge to the cities of New York
and Brooklyn. The address was heard with careful attention, and upon its conclusion a round
of enthusiastic applause swept through the building. His Honor Mayor Low followed Mr. Kingsley
with a concise and appropriate speech, receiving the structure on behalf of the City of Brooklyn.
His address elicited several demonstrations of approval from the audience. The Hon. Franklin
Edson, Mayor of New York, who was the next speaker, was heartily applauded as he aptly accepted
the Bridge in behalf of the authorities of the great metropolis. When Mr. Hewitt was introduced
as the orator on the part of New York City, he was warmly cheered. His eloquent address riveted
the attention of his hearers from beginning to end, and his pointed and conclusive vindication
of the bridge management from the outset aroused the enthusiasm of his hearers to the utmost
pitch. Following Mr. Hewitt came the Rev. Richard S. Storrs, D.D., who delivered the oration
on behalf of Brooklyn. Never did the distinguished preacher appear to better advantage, and
his oration, which was punctuated with applause, was characterized as a masterpiece by all
who heard it. Upon the conclusion of his address the presiding officer declared the exercises
at an end, and the company in the building dispersed.

The festivities, however, did not end with the conclusion of the formal ceremonies. The celebration
was continued in both cities throughout the day and far into the night. Thousands upon thousands
of enthusiastic people crowded the streets. After the ceremonies, the President, the Governor,
the speakers of the day, and the Trustees were driven to the residence of Col. Washington A.
Roebling, on Columbia Heights, where a reception was held. As they passed through the streets
the people cheered as people only can who cheer in the atmosphere of a free government. From
Col. Roebling's house the company proceeded to the residence of Mayor Low, where they were
entertained at a banquet. In the evening, under the auspices of the Municipal authorities,
a grand reception to President Arthur and Governor Cleveland was given by the citizens of Brooklyn
at the Academy of Music, and was attended by a great multitude. Another striking feature of
the celebration at night was the display of fireworks on the Bridge given under the direction
of the Board of Trustees. The pyrotechnic exhibition was viewed by almost the entire populace
of the two cities, and a vast concourse of visitors from abroad. The East River was fairly
blocked with craft of every description bearing legions of delighted spectators, and the streets
and housetops were packed with people. The display was generally characterized as one of the
grandest ever witnessed in America. The people of both cities evinced their public spirit in
the decorations by day and the illuminations by night. The illuminations in Brooklyn, particularly,
were on a magnificent scale, and excited the admiration of multitudes of visitors to the city.
In addition to the special features of the celebration there were many entertainments in honor
of the event, including concerts in the various city parks. Throughout the afternoon and evening
the best of order was preserved; the casualties that occurred were few and unimportant, and
the auspicious day ended without the intrusion of anything that would carry with it other than
pleasant memories of the significant event which it commemorated.

ORDER OF RELIGIOUS SERVICES,

CONDUCTED BY RT. Deut. vii.: 9.

Remember the marvelous works that He hath done: His wonders, and the judgments of his mouth.
Psalm cv.: 5.

Marvelous things did He in the sight of our forefathers, in the land of Egypt, even in the
field of Zoan.

He divided the sea, and let them go through: He made the waters to stand on an heap.

In the day time also He led them with a cloud, and all the night through with a light of fire.
Psalm lxxviii.: 13, 14, 15. Psalm cvii.: 21.

The Lord hath been mindful of us, and He shall bless us; He shall bless them that fear the
Lord, both small and great. Psalm cxv.: 12, 13.

Praise ye the Lord:

The Lord's name be praised.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRAYER.

Almighty God, who hast in all ages showed forth Thy power and mercy in the preservation and
advancement of the race redeemed by the precious blood of Thy dear Son: we yield Thee our unfeigned
thanks and praise as for all Thy public mercies, so especially for the signal manifestation
of Thy Providence which we commemorate this day. All things--wealth, industry, energy, skill,
genius--come of Thee; and when we consecrate their triumphs unto Thee, we give Thee but Thine
own. Enable us to see in the strength and grandeur of this structure the evident tokens of
Thy power, bringing mighty things to pass through the weakness of Thy creatures. Give us grace
and wisdom to discern in all this work the nobler uses it was ordained by Thee to subserve.
Teach us to know that all this mighty fabric is but vanity, save as it shall promote Thy sovereign
purpose toward the sons of men. O Lord God, clothed with majesty and honor, decking Thyself
with light as with a garment, and spreading out the heavens like a curtain, with the beams
of Thy chambers in the waters, and the clouds for Thy chariot, walking upon the wings of the
wind, Thy messengers spirits and Thy ministers a flaming fire, accept, we beseech Thee, this
last and chiefest fruit of human toil and genius as a tribute to Thy glory, and a new power
making for righteousness and peace amid all conflicts of earthly interests, and all the stir
and pomp of worldly aggrandizement. Our life is a thing of nought, and our purposes vanish
away; but Thy years shall not fail, and with Thee the beginning and the end are the same. Therefore
we implore Thee to bless and direct this work, that it shall be more than a highway for the
things that perish, even a path of Thy eternal Spirit lifting by His own infinite grace, more
and more, as the years roll on, the people of these cities toward the plane of Thine own life--the
life of endless peace, of absolute unity, and perfect love, through Jesus Christ, the one Redeemer
and Mediator between God and man. Amen.

ADDRESS OF WM. C. KINGSLEY,

PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.

In the presence of this great assemblage, and of the chosen representatives of the people of
these two great cities, of the Governor of the State of New York and of the President of the
United States, the pleasing duty devolves upon me, as the official agent of the Board of Trustees
of the New York and Brooklyn Bridge, to announce formally to the chief magistrates of these
two municipalities that this Bridge is now ready to be opened for public use, and is subject
in its control and management only to such restrictions as the people, to whom it belongs,
may choose to impose upon themselves. If I were at liberty to consult my own wishes I should
not attempt to occupy your attention any further. I am not here as the spokesman of my associates
in the Board of Bridge Trustees. They are well content to let this great structure speak for
them, and to speak more fittingly and more eloquently yet for the skillful, faithful and daring
men who have given so many years of their lives--and in several instances even their lives--to
the end that the natural barrier to the union, growth and greatness of this great commercial
centre should be removed, and that a vast scientific conception should be matched in the skill,
and courage, and endurance upon which it depended for its realization. With one name, in an
especial sense, this Bridge will always be associated--that of Roebling. At the outset of this
enterprise we were so fortunate as to be able to secure the services of the late John A. Roebling,
who had built the chief suspension bridges in this country, and who had just then completed
the largest suspension bridge ever constructed up to that time. His name and achievements were
of invaluable service to this enterprise in its infancy. They secured for it a confidence not
otherwise obtainable. He entered promptly and with more than professional zeal into the work
of erecting a bridge over the East River. As is universally known, while testing and perfecting
his surveys his foot was crushed between the planks of one of our piers; lockjaw supervened,
and the man who designed this Bridge lost his life in its service. The main designs were, however,
completed by the elder Roebling before he met his sad and untimely death. He was succeeded
at once by his son, Colonel Washington A. Roebling, who had for years before shared in his
father's professional confidences and labors. Here the son did not succeed the father by inheritance
merely. The elder Roebling, according to his own statements, would not have undertaken the
conduct of this work at his age--and he was independent of mere professional gain--if it were
not for the fact, as he frequently stated, that he had a son who was entirely capable of building
this Bridge. Indeed, the elder Roebling advised that the son, who was destined to carry on
and complete the work, should be placed in chief authority at the beginning. The turning point--as
determining the feasibility of this enterprise--was reached down in the earth, and under the
bed of the East River. During the anxious days and nights while work was going on within the
caissons, Colonel Roebling seemed to be always on hand, at the head of his men, to direct their
efforts, and to guard against a mishap or a mistake which, at this stage of the work, might
have proved to be disastrous. The foundations of the towers were successfully laid, and the
problem of the feasibility of the Bridge was solved. Colonel Roebling contracted the mysterious
disease in the caissons which had proved fatal to several of the workmen in our employ. For
many long and weary years this man, who entered our service young and full of life, and hope,
and daring, has been an invalid and confined to his home. He has never seen this structure
as it now stands, save from a distance. But the disease, which has shattered his nervous system
for the time, seemed not to have enfeebled his mind. It appeared even to quicken his intellect.
His physical infirmities shut him out, so to speak, from the world, and left him dependent
largely on the society of his family, but it gave him for a companion day and night this darling
child of his genius--every step of whose progress he has directed and watched over with paternal
solicitude. Colonel Roebling may never walk across this Bridge, as so many of his fellow-men
have done to-day, but while this structure stands he will make all who use it his debtor. His
infirmities are still such that he who would be the centre of interest on this occasion, and
even in this greatly distinguished company, is conspicuous by his absence. This enterprise
was only less fortunate in securing an executive head than in obtaining scientific direction.
For sixteen years together the late Hon. Henry C. Murphy stood for this work wherever it challenged
the enmity of an opponent or needed an advocate, a supporter and a friend. He devised the legislation
under which it was commenced. He staked in its inception a large portion of his private fortune
on its success. He upheld its feasibility and utility before committees, and legislatures,
and law courts, and in every forum of public discussion. For years he looked forward to this
day to fittingly close the activities of a long, useful and, in many respects, an illustrious
career. It was not permitted him to see it, but he saw very near the end, and he lived long
enough to realize, what is now admitted, that he was to the end of his days engaged in a work
from which the name of the city he loved so well will never be disassociated, for it is a work
the history of which will for all time be embraced in the records of the achievements of American
enterprise and of American genius. I am sure I speak for the Board of Trustees in returning
their thanks to all the professional gentlemen who have been in our employ--and especially
to Messrs. Martin, Paine, Farrington, McNulty and Probasco. For the most part these men have
been engaged on the Bridge from its commencement to its completion. It has always seemed to
the Trustees as if the highest and the humblest workmen engaged on this work were alike influenced
by the spirit of enterprise in which the Bridge had its origin. Men whose daily compensation
was not more than sufficient to provide them and their families with their daily bread were
at all times ready to take their lives in their hands in the performance of the imperative
and perilous duties assigned them. In the direct prosecution of the work twenty men lost their
lives. Peace hath its victories, and it has its victims and its martyrs, too. Of the seven
consulting engineers to whom the matured plans of the elder Roebling were submitted--all men
of the highest eminence in their profession--three have passed away, and four are living to
witness, in the assured success of this structure, the one ratification of their judgment which
cannot be questioned.

It remains for me to say, in conclusion, that the two cities rose at all times to the level
of the spirit of our time and country. Their citizens staked millions on what seemed to many
to be an experiment--a structure, it was often said, that at its best would not be of any actual
use. How solid it is; how far removed it is from all sense of apprehension; how severely practical
it is in all its relations, and how great a factor in the corporate lives of these cities it
is destined to be, we all now realize. This Bridge has cost many millions of dollars, and it
has taken many years to build it. May I say on this occasion that the people whom you represent
(turning to where the Mayors of the two cities stood together) would not part with the Bridge
to-day for even twice or thrice its cost? And may I remind those who, not unnaturally, perhaps,
have been disappointed and irritated by delays in the past, that those who enter a race with
Time for a competitor have an antagonist that makes no mistakes, is subject to no interference
and liable to no accident.

ADDRESS OF HON. SETH LOW,

MAYOR OF THE CITY OF BROOKLYN.

GENTLEMEN OF THE TRUSTEES--With profound satisfaction, on behalf of the City of Brooklyn, I
accept the completed Bridge. Fourteen times the earth has made its great march through the
heavens since the work began. The vicissitudes of fourteen years have tried the courage and
the faith of engineers and of people. At last we all rejoice in the signal triumph. The beautiful
and stately structure fulfills the fondest hope. It will be a source of pleasure to-day to
every citizen that no other name is associated with the end than that which has directed the
work from the beginning--the name of Roebling. With all my heart I give to him who bears it
now the city's acknowledgment and thanks.

Fourteen years ago a city of 400,000 people on this side of the river heard of a projected
suspension bridge with incredulity. The span was so long, the height so great, and the enterprise
likely to be so costly, that few thought of it as something begun in earnest. The irresistible
demands of commerce enforced these hard conditions. But Science said, "It is possible," and
Courage said, "It shall be!" To-day a city of 600,000 people welcomes with enthusiasm the wonderful
creation of genius. Graceful, and yet majestic, it clings to the land like a thing that has
taken root. Beautiful as a vision of fairyland it salutes our sight. The impression it makes
upon the visitor is one of astonishment, an astonishment that grows with every visit. No one
who has been upon it can ever forget it. This great structure cannot be confined to the limits
of local pride. The glory of it belongs to the race. Not one shall see it and not feel prouder
to be a man.

And yet it is distinctly an American triumph. American genius designed it, American skill built
it, and American workshops made it. About 1837 the Screw Dock across the river, then known
as the Hydrostatic Lifting Dock, was built. In order to construct it the Americans of that
day were obliged to have the cylinders cast in England. What a stride from 1837 to 1883--from
the Hydrostatic Dock to the New York and Brooklyn Bridge!

And so this Bridge is a wonder of science. But in no less degree it is a triumph of faith.
I speak not now of the courage of those who projected it. Except for the faith which removes
mountains yonder river could not have been spanned by this Bridge. It is true that the material
which has gone into it has been paid for; the labor which has been spent upon it has received
its hire. But the money which did these things was not the money of those who own the Bridge.
The money was lent to them on the faith that these two great cities would redeem their bond.
So have the Alps been tunneled in our day; while the ancient prophecy has been fulfilled that
faith should remove mountains. We justify this faith in us as we pay for the Bridge by redeeming
the bond.

In the course of the construction of the Bridge a number of lives have been lost. Does it not
sometimes seem as though every work of enduring value, in the material as in the moral world,
must needs be purchased at the cost of human life? Let us recall with kindness at this hour
the work of those who labored here faithfully unto the death, no less than of that great army
of men who have wrought, year in and year out, to execute the great design. Let us give our
meed of praise to-day to the humblest workman who has here done his duty well, no less than
to the great engineer who told him what to do.

The importance of this Bridge in its far-reaching effects at once entices and baffles the imagination.
At either end of the Bridge lies a great city--cities full of vigorous life. The activities
and the energies of each flow over into the other. The electric current has conveyed unchecked
between the two the interchanging thoughts, but the rapid river has ever bidden halt to the
foot of man. It is as though the population of these cities had been brought down to the river-side,
year after year, there to be taught patience; and as though, in this Bridge, after these many
years, patience had had her perfect work. The ardent merchant, the busy lawyer, the impatient
traveler--all, without distinction and without exception--at the river have been told to wait.
No one can compute the loss of time ensuing daily from delays at the ferries to the multitudes
crossing the stream. And time is not only money--it is opportunity. Brooklyn becomes available,
henceforth, as a place of residence to thousands, to whom the ability to reach their places
of business without interruption from fog and ice is of paramount importance. To all Brooklyn's
present citizens a distinct boon is given. The certainty of communication with New York afforded
by the Bridge is the fundamental benefit it confers. Incident to this is the opportunity it
gives for rapid communication.

As the water of the lakes found the salt sea when the Erie Canal was opened, so surely will
quick communication seek and find this noble Bridge, and as the ships have carried hither and
thither the products of the mighty West, so shall diverging railroads transport the people
swiftly to their homes in the hospitable city of Brooklyn. The Erie Canal is a waterway through
the land connecting the great West with the older East. This Bridge is a landway over the water,
connecting two cities bearing to each other relations in some respects similar. It is the function
of such works to bless "both him that gives and him that takes." The development of the West
has not belittled, but has enlarged New York, and Brooklyn will grow by reason of this Bridge,
not at New York's expense, but to her permanent advantage. The Brooklyn of 1900 can hardly
be guessed at from the city of to-day. The hand of Time is a mighty hand. To those who are
privileged to live in sight of this noble structure every line of it should be eloquent with
inspiration. Courage, enterprise, skill, faith, endurance--these are the qualities which have
made the great Bridge, and these are the qualities which will make our city great and our people
great. God grant they never may be lacking in our midst. Gentlemen of the Trustees, in accepting
the Bridge at your hands, I thank you warmly in Brooklyn's name for your manifold and arduous
labors.

ADDRESS OF HON. FRANKLIN EDSON,

MAYOR OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK.

MR. PRESIDENT--On behalf of the City of New York, I accept the great work which you now tender
as ready for the public use of the two cities which it so substantially and, at the same time,
so gracefully joins together.

The City of New York joyfully unites with the City of Brooklyn in extending to you, sir, and
to those who have been associated with you, sincere congratulations upon the successful completion
of this grand highway, establishing, as it does, an enduring alliance between these two great
cities. Through the wisdom, energy, zeal and patience of yourself and your co-laborers in this
vast enterprise, we are enabled this day to recognize the fact that a common and unbroken current
flows through the veins of these two cities, which must add in no small degree to the strength,
healthful growth and prosperity of both, and we believe that what has thus been joined together
shall never be put asunder.

When, more than fifteen years ago, you, Mr. President, foresaw the advantages that would surely
accrue to these cities from the establishment of such a means of communication between them,
few could be found to look upon such advantages as other than, at best, problematical. To-day,
however, they are recognized, and so fully, that before this Bridge was completed the building
of another not far distant had begun to be seriously considered.

It was forty years after the vast advantages of water communication between the Hudson and
the great lakes had dawned upon the mind of Washington, in the course of a tour through the
valley of the Mohawk, that such a work came to be appreciated by the people, and resulted in
that grand artery of wealth to our State, the Erie Canal. So I believe it has ever been in
the past with the initiation and construction of great public works, and with the introduction
of agencies and methods which have been of the greatest benefit to mankind throughout the world,
and so perhaps it will ever be. Yet, for the welfare of these two cities, let us venture the
hope that the tide of improvement and of active preparation is setting in, for it behooves
us more than most are aware to be forecasting our future necessities, and to recognize the
fact that

     There is a tide in the affairs of cities,
     Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.

It is not difficult for most of us to look back twenty-five years and see clearly the wonderful
strides which have been made in population, commerce, manufacturing and financial interests,
and in all the industries which help to make great and prosperous communities; nor is it difficult
to trace the wonders that have been wrought through the agencies of steam and electricity within
those years. But to look forward twenty-five years and attempt to discern the condition of
things in this metropolis, if they shall continue to move forward on the same scale of progress,
is an undertaking that few can grasp. No one dares accept the possibilities that are forced
upon the mind in the course of its contemplation. Will these two cities ere then have been
consolidated into one great municipality, numbering within its limits more than five millions
of people? Will the right of self-government have been accorded to the great city, thus united,
and will her people have learned how best to exercise that right? Will the progress of improvement
and the preparation for commerce, manufactories and trade, and for the comforts of home for
poor and rich, have kept pace with the demand in the great and growing city? Will the establishment
of life-giving parks, embellished with appropriate fountains and statues and with the numberless
graces of art, which at once gladden the eye and raise the standard of civilization, have kept
abreast with its growth in wealth and numbers?

These are but few of the pertinent questions which must be answered by the zealous and honest
acts of the generation of men already in active life. Here are the possibilities; all the elements
and conditions are here; but the results must depend upon the wisdom and patriotism and energy
of those who shall lead in public affairs. May they be clothed with a spirit of wisdom and
knowledge akin to that which inspired those who conceived and executed the great work which
we receive at your hands and dedicate to-day.

ADDRESS OF HON. ABRAM S. HEWITT.

Two hundred and seventy years ago the good ship "Tiger," commanded by Captain Adraien Block,
was burned to the water's edge, as she lay at anchor, just off the southern end of Manhattan
Island. Her crew, thus forced into winter quarters, were the first white men who built and
occupied a house on the land where New York now stands; "then," to quote the graphic language
of Mrs. Lamb, in her history of the City, "in primeval solitude, waiting till commerce should
come and claim its own. Nature wore a hardy countenance, as wild and as untamed as the savage
landholders. Manhattan's twenty-two thousand acres of rock, lake and rolling table land, rising
at places to a height of one hundred and thirty-eight feet, were covered with sombre forests,
grassy knolls and dismal swamps. The trees were lofty; and old, decayed and withered limbs
contrasted with the younger growth of branches; and wild flowers wasted their sweetness among
the dead leaves and uncut herbage at their roots. The wanton grapevine swung carelessly from
the topmost boughs of the oak and the sycamore; and blackberry and raspberry bushes, like a
picket guard, presented a bold front in all possible avenues of approach. The entire surface
of the island was bold and granitic, and in profile resembled the cartilaginous back of the
sturgeon."

This primeval scene was the product of natural forces working through uncounted periods of
time; the continent slowly rising and falling in the sea like the heaving breast of a world
asleep; glaciers carving patiently through ages the deep estuaries; seasons innumerable clothing
the hills with alternate bloom and decay.

