    One day at the house of a charming friend,
      From dishes of dainty blue,
    I ate something good which puzzled me much,
      The secret I'll tell to you.

    2. "This looks like salad, my dear," said I,
      "T'is celery surely I see,
    And mayonnaise yellow and thick and rich,
      What may this rare flavor be."

    3. "A firm spicy apple," she said with a smile,
      "Cut into pieces like dice--
    I used equal parts, with celery white,
      And my salad was made in a trice."

CABBAGE SALAD.

MRS. SMYTHE.

Cut a cabbage into fine pieces. Place in water for a couple of hours with one onion sliced
thin. Throw water off, pass through colander. Cover it with the dressing and let it stand for
five or six hours. A couple of beets can be chopped up finely and placed with it; this salad
will keep for a couple of days.

SALAD DRESSING.

One cup cream, one table spoon sugar, one dessert spoon mustard, one half dessert spoon of
pepper and salt, one small onion sliced fine, a couple of radishes sliced, two hard boiled
eggs. Crush the yolks into the cream, one pinch mint, two tablespoons vinegar. If cream is
not thick enough, crush up potatoes and mix with it. Sour cream can be used as well as sweet cream.

CHICKEN SALAD.

MISS STEVENSON.

One cold chicken, one teaspoonful white pepper, one half head celery, one grain cayenne, yolks
two eggs, one tablespoonful vinegar, one tablespoonful capers, one head of lettuce, one gill
salad oil, one tablespoonful of cream, white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Cut the chicken
into small square pieces and remove the skin. The celery should be well washed and also cut
into pieces of a similar size. Put into a bowl the yolks of eggs, drop into this drop by drop,
the oil, and beat them together, the mixture should resemble thick cream, add the vinegar.
Put the chicken and celery together in a salad bowl and pour over the compound, sprinkle on
also pepper and salt and cayenne; mix all thoroughly together with a fork. Arrange the lettuce
around the edge of the salad bowl, sprinkle the capers over the top and garnish the centre
with tips of celery.

LOBSTER, CHICKEN OR VEAL SALAD.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Cut up a chicken, (roast or boiled) fine, salt and pepper well, add a large or two small heads
of celery and if lobster some beet-root and the white of a hard boiled egg. Crush the yolk
with a pinch of salt, half a teaspoon of pepper, a large teaspoon of mustard, two teaspoons
of brown sugar, one teaspoon of olive oil or butter melted, one wineglass of vinegar; mix well
with a raw egg well beaten, half a pint of sour or sweet cream, and mix with other ingredients:
garnish with either salad or parsley. This is excellent.

LETTUCE CHICKEN SALAD.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Having skinned a pair of cold chickens, either mince or divide into small threads. Mix with
it a little smoked tongue or cold ham, grated rather than chopped. Have ready one or two fine
fresh lettuces, washed, drained and cut small. Put the cut lettuce in a bowl, place upon it
the minced chicken in a close heap in the centre. For the dressing: the yolks of four eggs
well beaten, a teaspoon of white sugar, a little cayenne, no salt: if you have ham or tongue
with the chicken two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, two tables of vinegar, and four tables of
salad oil. Stir this mixture well, put it into a small saucepan and let boil three minutes
(not more), stirring it all the time, then set to cool, when quite cold cover with it thickly
the heap of chicken in centre of salad. To ornament it have ready one half dozen hard boiled
eggs, which after the shell is peeled off must be thrown directly into a pan of cold water
to prevent discoloring. Cut each egg (white and yolk together) lengthways, into four large
pieces of equal size and shape, lay the pieces upon the salad all round the heap of chicken
in a slanting direction. Have ready also some red cold beet, cut in small cones of equal size,
arrange them outside the circle of egg. This salad should be prepared immediately before dinner
or supper. The colder it is the better.

SALMON OR LOBSTER SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. ANDREW T. LOVE.

Two eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, one tablespoon mustard, one half cup milk, (with a
small pinch baking soda to prevent curdling), one half cup vinegar, salt and pepper. Mix mustard
and butter, then eggs well beaten, milk, stir well, add vinegar, boil gently till as thick
as cream. Celery chopped up and added gives a nice flavor and crispness. If cooked in a double
boiler it is less likely to burn. This does nicely with chicken or lamb.

SOMETHING NICE FOR THE SALAD COURSE OF A LUNCHEON.

MRS. FRANK DUGGAN.

Select round tomatoes of equal size; peel and scoop out the seeds from the stem end. Place
the tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving; then fill with celery that has been chopped
fine and mixed with mayonnaise. Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish
or plate. Garnish the dish further by placing the ends of celery and sprigs of parsley on top
of each tomato. Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits, or salted wafers. Be generous with the
filling. Use plenty of the mayonnaise and celery and fill tomatoes to the top.

SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs (well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar (scant) one teaspoon mixed
mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted). Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly. Set in kettle
of boiling water and stir till it thickens, (about four minutes), when ready to use it add
two tablespoons cream.

SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes, one small lettuce, one
bunch cress, two tablespoons salad oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt. Shred all
the salad finely. Mix well with the dressing and put a little on half the bread and butter.
Cover with the other half, press together and trim neatly.

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL.

MRS. GILMOUR.

The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard, one dessert spoon
of sugar, pinch of salt, a little pepper. One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon
of vinegar.

SALAD DRESSING FOR TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar, one tablespoon of salt, two
tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of sugar and cayenne, and four eggs. Slice tomatoes and
arrange in layers. Garnish dish with either salad or parsley.

METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this on the eggs well beaten, add
the salt and then the vinegar, this last slowly, and stir all the time. Then cook in a pot
in hot water, until as thick as custard, when cold add the mustard.--Prepared mustard is made
as follows: two tablespoons mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon salt, enough boiling
water to mix. Half this quantity is enough for ordinary use. The above recipe is also good
for chicken. Put the eggs in boiling water.

PRESERVING EGGS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

(Which keeps them from June to June.)

Half a gallon of fresh lime to five gallons of water added by degrees, two and one half gallons
the first day, the rest next, then add one half gallon coarse salt, stir two or three times
a day for three days, after this drop in four eggs gently. To test the strength of the lime-water
drop in an egg that you know to be fresh, and if it floats the lime is too strong, add another
gallon or more of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.

CURÉE EGGS.

MISS MITCHELL.

Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half; have drawn butter not too thick,
flavor with curée powder. Place your eggs on a side dish, pour your curée round and finish
with parsley: makes a pretty lunch dish.

POACHED EGGS.

Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste. After poaching your eggs,
put them on the toast and sprinkle finely chopped parsley over them. Garnish the dish with parsley.

ANCHOVY EGGS.

MADAME J. T.

Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes. Let boil for one hour; cut
in two, remove the yolks and leave the whites in cold water not to discolor. Pound three anchovies
in a mortar with one tablespoon butter, small pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne, one half
teaspoon lemon juice and the yolks of the eggs. When pounded smooth put back into the eggs.
Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies.

STUFFED EGGS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons minced ham. Boil
the eggs for ten minutes; take off the shells, cut lengthwise, take out the yolks, mash them
in a basin, add the butter melted, the minced ham and the parsley. Put the mixture into the
whites of the eggs. Put the two halves together. Serve on shallow dish with the following white
sauce: one tablespoon each of butter, flour, and salt, one cup milk, one saltspoon pepper.
Melt the butter add the flour, then the milk (gradually) and pepper and salt.

BAKED OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot milk, and a tablespoonful melted
butter, wet three teaspoonfuls flour in a little cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all,
salt and pepper to taste. Bake twenty minutes.

CHEESE OMELET.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three tablespoons of fresh cream.

OMELET.

MISS M'GEE.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper and salt. Beat the whites
and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley and the flour dissolved
in a little milk, then add the whites, put in the frying pan, leave on top of the stove for
three minutes and put in the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons of milk, a pinch of salt: beat the whites of
the four eggs as stiff as possible, add to the above, turn into a frying pan, until the mixture
sets and then put in the oven until a golden brown.

CHEESE DISHES.

CHEESE STRAWS.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with one cupful of flour, one half saltspoonful of
salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper and butter the size of an egg. Add enough cold water to enable
you to roll thin. Cut in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a quick oven.

CHEESE SCALLOP.

MISS FRASER.

Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh milk. Into this beat the yolks of three eggs, add
one teaspoon of butter, and half a pound of grated cheese. Strew upon the top sifted bread
crumbs, and bake a delicate brown. Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put
on top and return to the oven for a few minutes.

THE CHAFING DISH.

A Relish and a Savory.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS GRACE M'MILLAN.

Allow for each person one egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, one half teaspoonful of
butter, one saltspoon of salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Cook like custard until smooth.
Spread on toast and serve at once.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS BEEMER.

Select richest and best American cheese, (Canadian will do), the milder the better, as melting
brings out strength. To make five rarebits take one pound cheese grate and put in the saucepan;
add ale (old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wine glassful to
each rarebit. Place over the fire, stir until it is melted. Have ready a slice of toast for
each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice on each plate, and pour cheese enough over each
piece to cover it. Serve at once.

GOLDEN BUCK

A "Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which is put carefully on top of rarebit.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs (hard boiled), one tablespoon flour,
two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.
Break the lobster meat into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks of the eggs with a silver
spoon and gradually add half the cream. Place the butter in a granite ware saucepan, add the
flour, let it cook slowly for one minute and then pour in the balance of the cream and stir
until the liquid thickens. Add the first mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of
the eggs sliced, season with cayenne pepper, and salt, add the wine and serve at once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth, add one cup of cream,
let it heat through, then add one can of lobster. Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup
of Sherry or Port wine, if desired; serve at once on squares of toast. Canned chicken or salmon
can be done the same way.

OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of horse radish, about half
a dozen oysters, and the same on top. Serve in small tumblers on a plate with pounded ice around
them and with oyster biscuits.

CRUSTINE.

MRS. A. COOK.

Boil the liver of two chickens, (or turkey will do), pound them to a paste with a piece of
butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of anchovy and a little cayenne. Serve on hot toast.
Small anchovies whole, laid on top are an improvement.

PIES.

    "Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."--LONGFELLOW.

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put a good rim on the side and put into
this one half cup of dried cocoanut; fill up with a custard made as follows: three eggs, three
ounces of sugar beaten together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little salt and
add one pint of milk. The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON PIE FILLING.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice of two lemons, grated rind
of half a lemon; put it on the stove to boil and add at once one tea-cup boiling water, stir
smooth, then add two tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little cold water, and one tablespoon
of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with two-thirds of a cup of water for ten minutes, strain
through fine sieve, then add one cup sugar, the juice of a lemon and butter half the size of
an egg, let boil a few minutes. Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch and yolk of one egg in
half cup milk stir in the mixture letting it boil until thick. Beat whites of two eggs into
stiff froth for frosting.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. STRANG.

Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls white sugar;
squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate the rind of one, stir together the yolks of three
eggs and white of one with the sugar, butter, juice and rind, then one (coffee) cup of sweet
cream or milk, beat all for a minute or two; have ready a plate lined with paste, into which
pour the mixture which will be sufficient for two pies of the ordinary size. Bake till the
pastry is done. Meanwhile beat the remaining whites to a stiff froth and stir in four spoonfuls
of white sugar. Take the pies from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each and return
them quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown. Take care that the oven be not too hot,
or they will brown too quickly and cause the pie to fall when taken out.

PASTRY.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one salt spoon
salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.

MOCK CHERRY PIE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup cranberries cut up, one half cup of raisins chopped, one half cup of cold water, one
teaspoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful corn-starch, two-thirds cup sugar, a little salt. This
makes one pie.

MINCE MEAT.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue, one pound apples, one pound sugar, one pound
raisins, one pound currants, two nutmegs, a large teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and
salt, one half pound of candied peel.

PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of pie plant, bake with one
crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon sugar over top; return to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE.

One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four tablespoons vinegar, one tablespoon
cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one cup sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with
two crusts.

SOUR CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar, scant tea-spoon of flour,
one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar, and flour together, lay the raisins round on the top;
bake with two crusts.

PUMPKIN PIE.

MISS BEEMER.

PASTE.

PUDDINGS.

    "The proof of the pudding lies in the eating."

ALMOND PUDDING

MRS. STOCKING.

One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons of maple sugar, one heaping tablespoon
of cornstarch, flavor with almond; cook milk, sugar, and cornstarch in double boiler, adding
yolks of eggs when boiling; pour into pudding dish, cover with whites of the eggs, and brown
in oven, to be served cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew the apples in a pie dish, when soft place the following batter on top: one egg, one tablespoon
each of sugar and butter, two tablespoonfuls each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking
powder, bake forty five minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.

BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M'GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of white sugar and one third
of a cup of butter. Stir together in a dish, pour on boiling water to make a thick custard;
stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs, bring to a boil. Slice thin a few ripe bananas,
pour the custard over them. Put whipped cream on top or if not cream the whites of the three
eggs well beaten with sugar. To be eaten cold.

BREAD PUDDING.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer of bread, one layer of fruit with sugar to taste
and small lumps of butter. Continue until bowl is full, put a plate on top and steam for at
least two hours, more will do no harm. Turn out a few minutes before wanted to let the juice
penetrate the bread that was uppermost.

COTTAGE PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

After rubbing together a cupful of sugar and a tablespoon of butter, add two eggs, and after
beating the mixture until light, add a cupful of milk; mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted
flour and three teaspoons of baking powder, rub through the sieve into the mixture already
made, beat quickly and pour the batter into one large pudding dish or two small ones. Sprinkle
with sugar, bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes or thirty if there be two. Serve hot
with lemon sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.--Beat two eggs very light, and add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of melted
butter, one small tablespoon of cornstarch, beat all together, then add one cup of boiling
water, cook five minutes, boiling all the while. Cook a little longer if set in a basin of
hot water, take from the fire, and add juice of lemon.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

One quart of milk scalded, two eggs well beaten, add gradually one cup sugar. With the eggs
and sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and three heaping tablespoons grated chocolate
dissolved over hot water, stir into the milk until a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla,
serve with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one tea cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls
of chocolate, one half teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Let the milk come to a boil, scald the
bread crumbs, when almost cool, beat the yolks of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to the
bread and milk. Bake one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat the whites of three eggs and
put meringues.

CARAMEL PUDDING.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take one coffee cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over a slow fire and burn it,
then pour it into one and a half pints of milk in a saucepan and place the latter on the fire
to come to a boil, but do not stir it in case the milk should crack. Blend three tablespoonfuls
of cornstarch with a little cold milk, and when the milk and sugar boil stir the starch in.
Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream.

CARAMEL PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

One pint of milk, one pound of brown sugar, one coffee cup of chopped walnuts, two heaping
tablespoons of cornstarch, pinch of salt. Put the milk in a double boiler, when boiling put
in cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk; let it cook a few minutes, put in the sugar
which has been previously burnt a little, then add the nuts, stir a few minutes, flavor with
vanilla, put into a mould, and eat with whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS LAMPSON.

Two cups of stale sponge cake crumbs, two cups of milk, one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks of
two eggs and whites of four, one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of rose water, a little
nutmeg. Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs. When nearly cold add the eggs, sugar,
rose water and lastly the cocoanut. Bake three quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish.
Eat cold, with white sugar sifted over it.

DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE.

MRS. STOCKING.

FRIED CREAM.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Everyone should try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream could be enveloped
in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish for a dinner course or for lunch or tea.
When the pudding is hard, it can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs. The moment the egg
touches the hot lard it hardens and secures the pudding which softens to a creamy substance
very delicious. Ingredients, one pint of milk, five ounces of sugar (little more than half
a cupful,) butter the size of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn
starch, and one tablespoonful of flour, (a generous half cupful altogether), stick of cinnamon
one inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it
is just about to boil, stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the fire for fully two minutes,
to cook well the starch and flour; take it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs
and return it a few minutes to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove the cinnamon,
stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered platter until one third of an inch
high. When cold and stiff cut the pudding into parallelograms, about three inches long and
two inches wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted cracker crumbs then in eggs (slightly
beaten and sweetened) then again in cracker-crumbs. Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire
basket should be used if convenient) and when of fine color, take them out and place them in
the oven for four or five minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over pulverized sugar
and serve immediately.

FEATHER PUDDING.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One tablespoon butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one cup sweet milk, two
tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour, one and one half teaspoons flavoring. Steam
one hour. Eat with sauce.

FIG PUDDING.

MRS. THOM.

One cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine, two cups bread-crumbs, one cup flour, one half
cup brown sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three hours.

GELATINE PUDDING (Pink.)

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Put one ounce pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the stove where it will not
get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four eggs, beaten with four tablespoons sugar, stir well,
let it just come to the boil, then add the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons of sugar
and a dessert spoon vanilla. Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out and garnish with
whipped cream. This is a very pretty dish.

GRAHAM PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY. Steam four hours, turn out and serve with sauce.

HONEY COMB PUDDING.

MISS BICKELL.

One cup flour mixed with one cup sugar, one half cup butter and one of milk melted, together,
five eggs well beaten; last of all put in two teaspoons soda and one of salt. Steam one hour
and a half.

MEDLEY PUDDING.

MRS. THEOPHILUS H. OLIVER.

Three eggs, the weight of three eggs in butter, in sugar, and in flour, beat the butter to
a cream. Add the eggs well beaten to the sugar and flour. Put into small teacups. Bake for
twenty minutes.

MANITOBA PUDDING.

MRS. STRANG.

Four cups flour, two cups of suet, two cups raisins, one cup currants, two cups sugar (brown),
a little baking powder, a little essence of lemon, a little allspice, a chopped apple, a little
salt, wet with a small quantity of water, boil four hours.

FOAMING SAUCE.

One half teacup butter, ditto of sugar, beat to a froth, put in a dish and set in a pan of
hot water, add one tablespoon of hot water, if liked a little vanilla. Stir one way until it
comes to a very light foam.

MARMALADE PUDDING.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Two dessertspoons marmalade, two cups bread crumbs, butter size of two walnuts, one half pint
of milk, two eggs, two ounces of sugar. Melt the butter and mix with the bread crumbs, marmalade
and sugar, add the eggs well beaten and the milk, pour into a well buttered mould, tie a cloth
closely over it and boil one and one half hours. Serve with sauce.

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING.

MRS. W. THOM.

One pound each of raisins, currants and suet, three quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, one
quarter pound flour, one half pound candied peel, one half pint brandy, one half nutmeg, one
quarter pound brown sugar and six eggs. Boil six hours and steam two or three more when required.
Caramel sauce. One cup brown sugar, one ounce of butter, and dessertspoon cornstarch, stirred
till brown, add boiling water and one wine glass of brandy.

OLD ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.

MRS. JOHN JACK.

One pound each of stoned raisins, currants, beef kidney suet, granulated sugar, bread crumbs,
and flour, one half pound candied lemon and citron peel mixed; one tablespoon salt, one teaspoonful
each of finely ground nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves, eight fresh eggs, one half ounce bitter
almonds chopped fine, the red part of three large carrots grated, breakfast cupful of strong
coffee, strained at breakfast, cupful of molasses, and enough pure apple cider to make the
whole of the proper consistency. Mix thoroughly and stand in a warm place over night, put into
mould or pudding bag, tie tightly and boil gently for twelve hours. In serving make a sauce
of flour, water, butter, and sugar flavored with brandy. Place the pudding on a hot dish, stick
a sprig of berried holly in the centre, pour a wineglassful of brandy around it and set fire to it.

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.

MRS. BLAIR.

