About this time Munden appears to have first imbibed a taste for the stage, and with it an
admiration of the genius of Garrick; indeed, he had seen more of Garrick's acting than had
any of his contemporaries in 1820, Quick and Bannister excepted. What a fine president would
Munden have been of the Garrick Club, the members of which probably know as much about Garrick
as they care about Thespis. Acquaintance with an actor fed Munden's penchant for the stage,
but did not fill his pocket. Both started for Liverpool, the actor upon an engagement, but
Munden in hope of one; the latter engaged in the office of the Town Clerk, but only realized
his hope in copying for the theatre, walking in processions, and bearing banners, at one shilling
per night!  At length he acted the first Carrier in Henry IV. He next joined a company at Rochdale,
which he soon left, and returning to Liverpool, smothered his dramatic passion for two years,
when he started for Chester, with a light heart, a bundle wardrobe, and a guinea. He entered
Chester with his "last shilling," which he paid for admission to the theatre, little thinking
of provision for the night. Yet Munden, in later life, was a prudent, parsimonious man. At
the close of the performance he fell in with a person who had been a butcher's apprentice in
Brooks's Market, and who remembering young Joseph's antic tricks, gave him good cheer, and
money for his return to London. On the road, necessity overtook him, when meeting a Warwickshire
militia-man, who was marching to the town at which he was billeted, Munden prevailed on the
soldier to represent him as a comrade. The trick told: he was ordered to the general mess-room
and received as one among the warriors; and his lively humour made him king of the company
for the night. Next morning the regiment mustered, and Munden was told to follow and be enlisted;
but, as he had obtained all he wished, a supper and a bed, he left his military friends to
their glory,[1] and proceeded to London. Here he again returned to the law, but once more emerged
from it, and joined a company at Leatherhead, as a representative of old men. But the theatre
was burnt. Munden next played at Windsor with tolerable success, at half a guinea per week;
and subsequently at Colnbrook and Andover. He returned to London, and thence went to Canterbury,
in 1780, to play low comedy characters, where he first became what theatrical biographers term
"a favourite." After other provincial engagements and a short trial of management at Sheffield,
Munden appeared December 2, 1790, (a few nights after the first appearance of Incledon,) at
Covent Garden Theatre as Sir Francis Gripe, in the Busy Body, and Jemmy Jumps in the Farmer;
his success in which parts after the impressions made by Parsons and Edwin was little short
of a miracle. His popularity now became settled. He was the original representative of Old
Rapid, Caustic, Brummagem, Lazarillo, (Two Strings to your Bow,) Crack, Nipperkin, Sir Abel
Handy, Sir Robert Bramble, Old Dornton, &c. In 1797 and 1798, he played at the Haymarket, but
his summer vacations were chiefly filled up by engagements at the provincial theatres. Munden
remained at Covent Garden Theatre till 1813, when he joined the Drury Lane company. Here he
remained until May 31, 1824, when he took his farewell of the stage, in the characters of Sir
Robert Bramble, (Poor Gentleman,[2]) and Old Dozy, (in Past Ten o'clock.) He read his farewell
address, thus rendering it strikingly ineffective, since his spectacles became obscured with
tears. The leave-taking had, however, a touch of real tragedy, which few could withstand. He
now retired with a respectable fortune, and lived in genteel style in Bernard-street, Russell
Square, till his 74th year.

Munden's style of acting was exuberant with humour. His face was his fortune: it was all changeful
nature: his eye glistened and rolled, and lit up alternately every corner of his laughing face:
"then the eternal tortuosities of his nose, and the alarming descent of his chin, contrasted,
as it eternally was, with the portentous rise of his eyebrows." He has been blamed for grimace,
but it should be remembered that many of his characters verged on caricatures. That he could
play comic characters chastely was amply shown in his Polonius; and touch the finer feelings
of our nature was exemplified in his Old Dornton, in Holcroft's catching play of the Road to
Ruin. The fine discrimination evinced by Munden in the grief and joy of the exclamations "Who
would be a father," and "Who would not be a father," will not soon be forgotten. We think we
see and hear his stout figure, in black, with florid face, and powdered hair, his raised and
clasped hands,--rushing out of the lockup-house scene in all the fervid extasy of a father
rejoicing at the escape of his son from destruction. In Crack, Dozey, Nipperkin, and other
drunken characters, his drollery was irresistible. His intoxication displayed as much discrimination
as his pathetic performances. Who can forget his stare in being detected in his fuddling as
Dozey, and his plea for drinking to "wa-ash down your honour's health:" or his anti-polarity
as Nipperkin, when his very legs seemed drunk beneath him; his attempt to set down the keg
would stagger the disbelievers of perpetual motion. Again, who did not relish the richness
of his voice, and the arch crispness which he gave to some words, while others came not trippingly
off his tongue, but lingered and jarred with an effect which accounts for so many imitators.
His mouth had a peculiar twist, somewhat resembling that of Mathews, which at times almost
forbad his plain speaking.

We have seen that Munden was

  A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
  Had ta'en with equal thanks.

As he ripened, he became tinged with the old gentlemanly vice. He almost made penury his hobby.
Oxberry's widow asked him, after his retirement, to play for her benefit: he said he could
not, but that, if ever he performed again, he would present her with 100l. It is related of
him too, that a friend asking him for a keepsake, he exchanged his old cotton umbrella for
his friend's silk one. Elliston and Munden were on good terms, though men of very opposite
habits. Munden had played twelve nights for Elliston at Leamington. The manager had his wine,
and the actor his brandy and water, in the greenroom; before leaving the town, Munden sent
for his bill at the next tavern--14 glasses as many shillings. He asked Elliston to contribute
3s. which the manager refused to do, as Munden had drunk his wine; "but," retorted Munden,
screwing his features up to the very point of exaction, "Sip-pings, remember sip-pings," alluding
to Elliston's occasional visits to his glass, while he was playing his part. It is said too,
though we know not how truly, that Munden was once seen, walking to Kentish Town, with four
mackerel, suspended from his fingers by a twig, he having purchased the fish at a low price
in Clare-Market. But this is venial: for a string of fish is one of the parcels which John
Wilkes said, a gentleman may carry. Munden was a willing diner-out, and his conviviality made
him a welcome guest at any board. His hospitality at home was unbounded; and above all, he
has left an exemplary character for honesty and integrity: he was one of those

  Whose blood and judgment are so well comingled
  That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
  To sound what stop she please.

Mr. Munden has left a widow, a son, and a daughter to share his well-earned fortune.

[1] The recital of these circumstances induced O'Keefe to introduce the
    incident in the part of Nipperkin, in Springs of Laurel, or "Rival
    Soldiers".

[2] Oxberry appeared on the stage for the last time, this night, as
    Corporal Foss.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

MEMOIRS OF SIR RALPH ESHER,

By Leigh Hunt, Esq.

These volumes exhibit a lively picture of the gayest and most profligate periods of the history
of the English Court. The writer, Sir Ralph Esher, is an adventurer in the Court of our Second
Charles, where he is introduced by luckily securing a feather that escapes from the hat of
one of the ladies of the Court on horseback. The work opens with some account of the writer's
family, of some antiquity, in the county of Surrey, with a few delightful sketches of the great
men of the period. Witness this slight outline of

Cowley.

"I rode one day on purpose to see Cooper's Hill, because Mr. Denham had written a poem upon
it; and hearing that Cowley was coming to see Mr. Evelyn at Wootton, I went there and waited
all the morning, till I saw him arrive. He had a book in his hand, with his finger between
the leaves, as if he had been reading. He was a fleshy, heavy man, not looking in good health,
and had something of a stare in his eye. Before he entered the gate, he stooped down to pinch
the cheeks of some little children at play; and afterwards, when I heard he was put in prison,
I could not, for the life of me, persuade myself that he deserved it."

The third chapter describes one of Charles's visits to Durdans, a rural retreat built with
materials from Nonsuch in the vicinity. The opening has all the summer freshness of a race-day
morning at Epsom:

"The bells awoke me in the morning, ringing a merry peal. When the wind died, they seemed to
be calling towards London; when it rose again, they poured their merriment through the town,
as if telling us that the King was coming. I got up, and went into the street, where the people
were having their breakfasts under the trees, as the gentry do in the time of the races. It
was a very animated scene. The morning was brilliant. A fine air tempered the coming warmth.
The tables set out with creams and cakes under the trees, had a pretty country look, though
the place was crowded. Everybody was laughing, chattering, and expecting; and the lasses, in
their boddices and white sleeves, reminded me of Miss Warmestre."

The arrival of the King and his mistress is beautifully told, as are the costumes described,
nay, coloured, for they are like highly-finished portraits.

Charles and his Court at Epsom.

"The King!--The silence now seemed to become more silent; and in spite of the opinions in which
I had been brought up, I felt what it was to be in the presence of one who inherited sovereign
power. His Majesty himself alighted first, and together with Buckingham, presented his hand
to assist the Queen. Then came a handsome boy, Mr. Crofts (afterwards Duke of Monmouth); and
last, assisted by her cousin the Duke, the long looked for beauty, beautiful indeed, triumphantly
beautiful. She looked around, and the spectators could hardly refrain from another shout.

"The dress at that time was well calculated to set off a woman to advantage. Lady Castlemain
was dressed in white and green, with an open boddice of pink, looped with diamonds. Her sleeves
were green, looped up full on the shoulders with jewelry, and showing the white shift beneath,
richly trimmed with lace. The boddice was long and close, with a very low tucker. The petticoat
fell in ample folds, but not so long as to keep the ankles unexposed; and it was relieved from
an appearance of too much weight by the very weightiness of the hanging sleeves, which counterpoising
its magnitude, and looking flowery with lace and ribbons, left the arms free at the elbows,
and fell down behind on either side. The hair was dressed wide, with ringlets at the cheeks;
and the fair vision held a fan in one hand, while the Duke led her by the other. When she had
ascended the steps, and came walking up the terrace, the lowness of her dress in the bosom,
the visibility of her trim ankles, and the flourishing massiness of the rest of her apparel,
produced the effect, not of a woman over-dressed, but of a dress displaying a woman; and she
came on, breathing rosy perfection, like the queen of the gardens.

"I did not see all this at the time; there was not leisure for it; but I had the general impression,
which I reduced into detail afterwards. The spectators forgot everybody but the King and her.
His Majesty, at that period of his life, (he was little more than thirty,) looked at his best,
and I thought I never saw a manlier face, or a more graceful figure. He was in mulberry coloured
velvet and gold. He not only took off his hat in return to our salutations, but persisted in
keeping it so, as if in the presence of the whole people of England. This fairly transported
us. The royal features were strong, somewhat grim even, and he had a black brow and a swarthy
complexion, reminding us of the southern part of his stock; but there was good temper in the
smile of his wide though not unhandsome mouth; and his carriage was eminently that of the gentleman.
Lady Castlemain at that time was little more than twenty. The Queen, though short of stature,
was young also, and looked handsomer than we expected; and as all parties seemed pleased, and
his Majesty's little son came on the other side of the lady of the bed-chamber, we pretended
to ourselves, that things were not so bad as report made them; though never more convinced,
that everything which had been related was true."

An animated snatch from court life:

"I passed a delightful winter, carrying messages, going to plays, dining, drinking, dressing,
and hearing the King and his courtiers talk. By degrees I was encouraged to talk myself. I
got a reputation for being both a hearty and a judicious admirer of wit and poetry, and this
procured me the regard of the men I was most anxious to please. Lord Buckhurst liked me because
I was discriminating; Sir John Denham, because I listened with respect; Sir Charles Sedley,
because none of his similes were lost on me; and Mr. Waller, because I thought him the greatest
poet that ever was, I had some misgiving on that point, when I thought of poor Mr. Cowley,
who died not long afterwards. Mr. Sprat (lately made Bishop of Rochester, then the Duke of
Buckingham's chaplain,) took me to see that great and good man in his retreat in the country,
where he talked so delightfully of rural pleasures, that I began to sigh after my old fields,
till I heard him say he had realized nothing but agues, and that the Arcadians in his vicinity
were anything but what they should be. He thought, however, he should find them a little higher
up the river."

Lely's Portrait of Cromwell

is thus introduced in the second volume:

"Oliver now stood erect, with his back to a fire-place, and resembled the picture which had
been lately painted of him by Lely. The artist flattered him perhaps in the general air, as
far as it implied ordinary good breeding, and an habitual urbanity of carriage; and yet the
momentary look may not have been flattered even in that respect; for as the greater includes
the less, so the princely serenity which Cromwell could assume as well as any man, or rather
which was natural to him in his princely moments, involved of necessity whatever is of the
like quality in the self-possession of an ordinary gentleman. You have heard what Cromwell
said, when Lely was about to paint this picture? He desired him to omit nothing that could
complete the likeness, however it might tell against smoothness and good looks. Not a wart,
or a wrinkle was to be left out. Lely accordingly produced a stronger and bluffer face than
is usual with him; though it is to be doubted, whether the sense of beauty to which he afterwards
made such a sacrifice of his pencil, would have permitted him to go to the extent of Cromwell's
direction, granting even that the instinct of a courtier had not prevented it. Nor are we to
suppose, that Cromwell himself, however great a man, was displeased to think that his warts
and wrinkles had been found less inimical to pleasingness of aspect, than might have been looked
for. Be this as it may, I was afterwards when I came to see the picture, highly struck with
the resemblance it bore to him at the period of this interview. If there was any defect on
the wrong side it was, that the eyes were not fine enough; not sufficiently deep and full of
meaning. And yet they are not vulgar eyes, in Lely's picture. The forehead, and the open flow
of hair on either side, as if he was looking out upon the realm he governed, and the air of
it was breathing upon him, are wonderfully like; and so is the determined yet unaffected look
of the mouth. The nose, which in every face is, perhaps, the seat of refinement or coarseness,
(at least I have never found the symptom fail) is hardly coarse enough; and in a similar proportion,
it is wanting in power. Cromwell's nose looked almost like a knob of oak. Indeed, throughout
his face there was something of the knobbed and gnarled character of that monarch of our woods.
I will add, that as this picture was painted immediately after Cromwell's accession to the
sovereign power, the princely aspect of the sitter was never more genuine, perhaps, than at
that moment. But there was one thing which Lely assuredly took upon himself to qualify; to
wit, the redness of the nose. It was too red in ordinary, though not so much so as his libellers
gave out, nor so distinguished in colour from the rest of his face. When he was moved to anger,
the whole irritability of his nature seemed to rush into both nose and cheeks; and this produced
an effect, the consciousness of which was, perhaps, of no mean service in helping him to control
himself. Upon the whole if many princes have had a more graceful aspect, few have shown a more
striking one, and fewer still have warranted the impression by their actions."

The work, as our readers may imagine, is from first to last, an ever shifting round of adventure.
It has its dark shades as well as its lively tints. The Great Plague and Fire furnish ample
materials for the former, as do the court beauties and intriguantes for the latter. An episodal
narrative of the Plague is one of the most touching pieces in the whole work. At present we
subjoin one of

The Great Fire.

"I was pondering one night, as I was sitting in the parlour at Mickleham,[1] looking at a beautiful
moon, and delaying to go to bed, when Bennett came in and told me, that there was a dreadful
fire in London. One of the tradesmen had brought news of a dreadful fire the day before; but
as every fire was dreadful, and I had seen the good people of London run away from a cow, crying
out, a "mad bull," I had thought nothing of it, and was prepared to think as little of the
new one. The old gentleman, however, assuring me that both fires were one and the same, that
it had burnt a whole night and day, and was visible as far as Epsom, I thought it time to see
into the truth of the matter. I ordered my horse, and promising to bring back a correct account,
purely to satisfy the house that there was no such thing, (for some of the domestics had kindred
in London,) I set off at a round gallop, looking towards the north, as if I could already discern
what I had doubted. Nobody was stirring at Leatherhead; but at Epsom, sure enough, there was
a great commotion, all the people being at their doors, and vowing they saw the fire; which,
however, I could not discern. That there was a fire, however, and a dreadful one, was but too
certain, from accounts brought into the town both by travellers and the inhabitants; so with
the natural curiosity which draws us on and on upon much less occasions, especially on a road,
I pushed forward, and soon had pretty clear indications of a terrible fire indeed. I began
to consider what the King might think of it, and whether he would not desire to have his active
servants about him. At Morden the light was so strong, that it was difficult to persuade one's-self
the fire was not much nearer; and at Tooting you would have sworn it was at the next village.
The night was, nevertheless, a very fine one, with a brilliant moon.[2]  Not a soul seemed
in bed in the villages, though it was ten o'clock. There was a talk of the French, as if they
had caused it. By degrees, I began to meet carts laden with goods; and on entering the borders
of Southwark, the expectation of the scene was rendered truly awful, there was such a number
of people abroad, yet such a gazing silence. Now and then one person called to another; but
the sound seemed as if in bravado, or brutish. An old man, in a meeting of cross-roads, was
haranguing the people in the style of former years, telling them of God's judgments, and asserting
that this was the pouring out of that other vial of wrath, which had been typified by the Fiery
Sword,--a spectacle supposed to have been seen in the sky at the close of the year sixty-four.
The plague was thought to have been announced by a comet.

"Very different from this quieter scene, was the one that presented itself, on my getting through
the last street, and reaching the water-side. The comet itself seemed to have come to earth,
and to be burning and waving in one's face, the whole city being its countenance, and its hair
flowing towards Whitehall in a volume of fiery smoke. The river was of a bloodish colour like
the flame, and the sky over head was like the top of a pandemonium. From the Tower to St. Paul's
there was one mass of fire and devastation, the heat striking in your eyes, and the air being
filled with burning sparkles, and with the cries of people flying, or removing goods on the
river. Ever and anon distant houses fell in, with a sort of gigantic shuffling noise, very
terrible. I saw a steeple give way, like some ghastly idol, its long white head toppling, and
going sideways, as if it were drunk. A poor girl near me, who paced a few yards up and down,
holding her sides as if with agony, turned and hid her eyes at this spectacle, crying out,
'Oh, the poor people! oh the mothers and babies!' She was one of the lowest of an unfortunate
class of females. She thought, as I did, that there must be a dreadful loss of lives; but it
was the most miraculous circumstance of that miraculous time, that the fire killed nobody,
except some women and infirm persons with fright.

"I took boat, and got to Whitehall, where I found the King in a more serious and stirring humour
than ever I saw him. Mr. Pepys, begging God to forgive him for having an appetite at such a
crisis, and interrupting his laughter at the supper they gave him, with tears of pity and terror,
had brought word to his Majesty that the whole city would be destroyed, if some of the houses
were not blown up. The King accordingly not only dispatched myself and many others to assist,
but went in person with his brother, and did a world of good. I never saw him look so grim,
or say so many kind things. Wherever he went, he gave the people a new life, for they seemed
dead with fright. Those who had not fled, (which they did by thousands into the fields where
they slept all night,) seemed only to have been prevented from doing so, by not knowing what
steps to take. The Lord Mayor, a very different one from his predecessor, who showed a great
deal of courage during the plague, went about like a mad cook with his handkerchief, perspiring,
and lamenting himself; and nobody would have taken the citizens for the same men who settled
my court friends at the battle of Naseby. The court, however, for that matter, was as frightened
as the city, with the exception of the King and one or two others; so terrible is a new face
of danger, unless there is some peculiar reason for meeting it. The sight indeed of the interior
of the burning city, was more perilous, though not so awful, as its appearance outside. Many
streets consisted of nothing but avenues between heaps of roaring ruins; the sound of the fire
being nothing less than that of hundreds of furnaces, mixed up with splittings, rattlings,
and thunderous falls; and the flame blowing frightfully one way, with a wind like a tempest.
The pavement was hot under one's feet; and if you did not proceed with caution, the fire singed
your hair. All the water that could be got seemed like a ridiculous dabbling in a basin, while
the world was burning around you. The blowing up of the houses marked out by the King, was
the ultimate salvation of some of the streets that remained; but as a whole, the city might
be looked upon as destroyed. I observed the King, as he sat on his horse at the beginning of
Cheapside, and cast his eyes up that noble thoroughfare; and certainly I had never seen such
an expression in his countenance before.

"The fire raged four days and nights; and on the fifth of September, London, from the Tower
to Fleet-street, was as if a volcano had burst in the midst of it, and destroyed it, the very
ruins being calcined, and nothing remaining in the most populous part, to show the inhabitants
where they had lived, except a church here and there, or an old statue. I looked into it, three
days afterwards, when the air was still so hot, that it was impossible to breathe; and the
pavement absolutely scorched the soles of my shoes.

"The loss of property by the fire was of course far greater than that by the plague, and yet
assuredly it was not felt a thousandth part so much, even in the city; for money, even with
the lovers of it, is not so great a thing, after all, as their old habits and affections. The
wits at court never chose to say much about the plague; but the fire, after the fright was
over, was a standing joke. And the beneficial consequences to the city itself soon became manifest,
in the widening and better building of the streets, an improvement which came in aid of the
cleanliness that was resorted to against the plague; so that instead of a judgment against
the King and his government, Rochester said, in his profane way, that heaven never showed a
judgment of a better sort."

We need scarcely add our commendation of these delightful volumes. Each page teems with life,
and everywhere to use an expression of the writer, his "soul rises with springy freshness."
The portraits, and to use a familiar term of artists, the bits of painting, have the touches
of a master-hand, and they are interwoven with genius which enlivens art and embellishes nature.

[1] At or near Mickleham, by the way, the writer might have commanded a
    distant view of the burning City. On a fine, clear day we have often
    discerned the dome of St. Paul's from one of the hills rising from
    Mickleham to Norbury Park.

[2] Evelyn, speaking of this night, says, that it was "light as day for
    about ten miles round about, after a dreadful manner."--Memoirs, vol.
    i. p. 391. second edit 4to. Sir Ralph does not seem to make the light
    so strong, though he does not absolutely say it was otherwise. Perhaps
    Evelyn speaks of a later hour. The flames appear to have become
    visible afterwards to the distance of forty miles.--Edit.

      *      *      *      *      *

THE GATHERER

AN ODD STORY.

