VOL. I.--NO. 39. PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK. PRICE FOUR CENTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

PODDIE AND DICK AT THE FREE BATH.

BY UNCLE FRANK.

"Dick, Uncle Fritz'll never come!" exclaimed Poddie Monell, with an impatient stamp of his
foot, and once more he peered anxiously through the bars of the gate at the South Ferry.

"Hold on; don't be so sure, old fellow; there he comes now," said Dick; "look just beyond the
Elevated. Let's go meet him."

"Keep cool, boys, keep cool; don't rush; there's plenty of time," said the gentleman, kindly,
giving a hand to each; and crossing the street, they sauntered leisurely along one of the broad
walks of the Battery.

"Which of the free baths are we going to, and what are they like?" asked Dick, whose mind was
always travelling ahead of time in a curious fashion.

"We are going to the Battery bath, because it is nearest. They are all pretty much alike, however,"
replied his uncle.

"Do tell us all about them," begged Poddie, earnestly, "for I want to know if they're anything
like our bath at Central Park--whether they have hanging rings, a flying trapeze, and places
to dive off of."

"Well, no, they don't indulge in the first two luxuries, but they have plenty of space, ropes,
diving places, and a fair depth of water. But let me tell you how much good they do.

"There are four free baths stationed on the East River--at One-hundred-and-twelfth Street,
Thirty-seventh Street, Fifth Street, and Gouverneur Street; and three on the North River--at
the Battery, Bethune Street, and Fifty-first Street; and one floating around without any home
at all--that is, it is built, and the authorities have not decided where to anchor it."

"Well?" exclaimed both boys, interestedly.

"Now, boys, in order to understand thoroughly how much these free baths are to the people who
use them, you must put yourselves in some other boys' boots, or perhaps I should say jackets,
so many of them have no boots at all.

"You and Dick live in a very lovely home. Just imagine yourselves in a dingy tenement-house,
shut up for the night, with three or four other boys, to sleep in a dark room where never sunlight
or breeze enters through the whole year; the heat is suffocating; you toss uneasily back and
forth, more than likely on the floor. You have heard during the day that to-morrow the Gouverneur
Street or some other bath will be open. What do you do?

"Before the day breaks you leap from your bed, waken your brothers or comrades, fling on your
jackets and trousers, rush down the rickety stairways out into the cooler air of the morning,
and scud down to the docks.

"When you arrive there you find already quite a line of boys and men ahead of you. You can
not go above them--the policemen won't allow it--so you take your places at the foot of the
line, glad that it is no longer. Poddie is number fifty-one, Dick fifty-two. By twos and threes
the line grows to be three hundred strong. At five o'clock the doors open, the keepers appear,
and one hundred are admitted. But here we are: you shall begin to judge for yourselves."

"Whew!" exclaimed Dick, looking up and down a long line of ragged, grimy urchins, who were
tiptoeing in impatience to enter. "How will all those fellows get in? Shall we have to foot
the line?"

"Not while I have my 'open, sesame,' with me," replied Uncle Fritz, pointing to a small silver
badge on his coat lapel.

The keeper just glanced at it, and Dick was greatly surprised to see how politely they were
invited to walk in, "all through a bit of shiny silver," as he expressed it afterward.

"What a crowd of boys!" thought Poddie, as his eye roved from one to another of the hundred
ducking, diving, splashing little and big fellows, who were laughing and shouting with delight.
"What a jolly time they're having!" said he, turning to his uncle.

"Yes," said that gentleman. "I don't believe you have more fun at the Central Park bath, Poddie."

"Don't know as we do," replied Poddie, dubiously. "But what does that mean?" added he, startled
by the brazen clangor of a large bell that rung high above the noises a warning "Ding-dong,
ding-dong, ding."

"Time's up!" shouted the keeper, almost as loud as his bell. Silence fell upon the gleeful
throng instantly. With downcast faces and slow, reluctant feet the bathers commenced to crawl
up the wet steps, tumble over the railings, and trailing little brooks of water behind them,
sought the bath-rooms, whence they slowly emerged, some fairly well dressed, but the majority
in rags and tatters.

"The boys is putty fair to-day, along o' you visitors, sir," said the keeper; "but we mostly
has to hunt 'em out o' the dark corners--where they dart to as soon as the bell rings--with
this rattan, or they'd stay in all the day."

"How about the girls--do they enjoy the privileges of these free baths?" inquired Uncle Fritz?

"Yes, sir, they does, on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, an' a lively lot they is, too; the
women keepers has their hands full."

No sooner had the first crowd of boys disappeared than pell-mell in rushed a tumultuous throng,
pushing and jostling in spite of the shouting keepers.

Begrimed and perspiring, and panting with impatience to enjoy the blessing of the cooler element,
it is the work of but a moment in the bath-rooms; the doors fly open, and down they plunge
from steps and railings into the cool green depths.

The water splashes and dashes and foams, lashed by scores of active hands and feet, until the
boys are fairly deafened by the roar.

"Gracious! you'd think they hadn't seen water in a year, wouldn't you, Dick?" said Poddie.

"Half o' them's repeaters," said the keeper, overhearing the remark.

"Beg pardon--did you call them repeaters? what's that?" inquired Poddie, politely.

"Repeaters? Why, repeaters is boys who go from bath to bath, only waiting to get their heads
dry; then they rubs mud on their faces to make 'em dirty, so we can't know 'em, consequentially
they gets in half a dozen times at different baths. How are we to know them? bless your eyes!"

"Have you any fine swimmers among them?" inquired Uncle Fritz, pleasantly.

"Yes, sir," replied the keeper, "some o' these chaps are reg'lar fishes--nat'ral-born eels,
you may say. Here, Patsy Miller, 'Roxy,' 'Spider,' come along and show these young gentlemen
some o' your tricks."

The three boys, hearing their names shouted by the keeper and their playmates, come forward,
looking sheepishly pleased at their momentary importance.

"Go to the roof and dive," commands the keeper.

In a few seconds they appear on the pebbled roof opposite, thin-limbed, brown, and lithe as Arabs.

"Ready--dive!"

One after another the heads are bowed, hands are clasped palm to palm and pointed forward,
and away they go, head-first like frogs. Three splashes mark where they go under; three lines
of bubbles across the bath tell where the glossy heads will come up.

"Bravo! bravo! well done!" cries Uncle Fritz.

"Dive backward, and swim oar stroke," directs the keeper.

Nothing loath, the boys mount the railings, the swimmers making way for them. One, two, three.
Down they go on their backs, come up like corks, throw their arms high in air, bring them down
full length behind their heads, draw back their feet, and with an oar-like sweep of their limbs
make long darts through the water.

"How splendid!" observes Dick, turning to his uncle.

"Turn somersaults," shouts the keeper.

"Goody gracious! that's what they do up at the Central," says Dick, laughing heartily, as now
six heels, then three heads, alternately appear on the surface of the water.

"Make a raft," orders the keeper. Immediately Patsy and "Spider" and "Roxy" are on their backs
again; they lock arms, paddle with their feet, and make quite a respectable raft as they cross
the bath.

Suddenly the raft goes to pieces, the swimmers dive, and stay under so long that Poddie thinks
they are gone for good; but no, they are up again, ready for more fun.

A game of "leap-frog" and "playing porpoise" are both entered into with fine spirit, for the
boys all wish to show off.

A boat-race, in which a dozen boys either "sculled" or swam "oar stroke," as they fancied,
Dick and Poddie declared "quite the best thing" they had ever seen in the swimming line.

Once more the great bell sounded its notes of doom, and the dripping crowd gave place to a dry one.

"We're obliged to do this in midsummer," remarked the keeper, alluding to the clearing-out
process, "to give the largest numbers a chance; we must git through with the boys, for after
six the men'll be comin' along, tired and dusty, from their work."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What do you think of the free baths, boys?" asked Uncle Fritz, as they crossed the Battery.

"I'm mighty glad that poor boys have as good a chance as we rich fellows," replied Dick, clinking
some silver in his pocket, with the air of a banker.

"Then it keeps them from the sharks," remarked Poddie, thoughtfully.

"And makes them clean and healthy, besides giving them any amount of innocent pleasure," added
their uncle.

ROSE AND CATERPILLAR.

  "Oh, caterpillar," said a rose
    One lovely summer day,
  "Your constant eating drives me wild;
    I wish you'd go away.
  I really can not see what use
    You and your kind can be;
  You naught but mischief do, and are
    Unpleasant things to see."

  A moment after that same rose
    Smiled on a butterfly
  That stopped to show his rainbowed wings
    As he was passing by.
  Oh, if she only could have known--
    The pretty, dainty rose--
  He was a caterpillar too,
    Arrayed in splendid clothes!

VISITING A TEA PLANTATION.--PREPARATION OF TEA.

FROM ADVANCE SHEETS OF "THE BOY TRAVELLERS IN THE FAR EAST." PART SECOND.

BY THOMAS W. KNOX.

Frank and Fred had long wished to visit a tea plantation, and while they were in Java this
wish was gratified. The following extract from their journal describes what they saw and learned
during their visit:

"The first thing the tea-planter has to do after getting possession of his lease is to clear
the land and get ready for planting. The outlay for this is considerable, and not much unlike
clearing up a farm in New England, or in the backwoods of Canada. Then the young plants are
set out; after this has been done, the ground must be kept clear of weeds, just as in raising
corn or potatoes. It must be frequently stirred, so that the plant can get as much nourishment
as possible from the earth; and when this is done, the planter has the satisfaction of seeing
the bushes grow with considerable rapidity.

"We walked through the fields where the plants were growing, and found them of different ages
and sizes. If we had not known where we were, we might have thought we were in a field of English
myrtle bushes, as the tea-plant is much like the myrtle in general appearance. It grows from
two to six feet high, and has white blossoms that resemble small dogroses.

"One of us asked which were the plants that produced green tea, and which the black. The owner
of the plantation smiled, and said there was no difference.

"We laughed at our own ignorance, as he explained that the difference of the teas was entirely
owing to the manipulation. We asked why it was that some districts in China produced only green
teas, while others were reputed to make none but black; and he told us it was because the workmen
in those districts had been accustomed to follow only one form of manipulation.

"It takes three years to get a plantation in condition to produce tea. The seeds are sown in
a nursery bed, and the young plants are not ready to be set out till they are a year old. They
are then about nine inches high, and covered with leaves, and the first crop is taken when
they have been growing two years in the field. The leaves are the lungs of the plant, and it
would die if all of them were stripped off. Consequently only a part of them are removed at
a picking; and if a plant is sickly, it is not disturbed at all. The plants will last from
ten to twelve years, and are then renewed; and on all the large plantations it is the custom
to make nursery beds every year, so that there will be a constant succession of new plants
for setting out in place of the old ones.

"At the first gathering the half-opened buds are taken, and from them the finest teas are made.
Then they have another gathering when the leaves are fully opened, and then another and another,
till they have five or six gatherings in the course of the year. Each time the leaves are coarser
than those of the previous gathering, and consequently the tea is not of so fine a quality.
A well-managed plantation produces all kinds of tea; and it was a wise requirement of the Dutch
government, when they started the tea-culture in Java, that the planters should produce proportionate
quantities of both black and green, and not less than four qualities of each."

"The gathering takes place only in clear weather; and for the best teas the picking is confined
to the afternoon, when the leaves are thoroughly dry, and have been warmed by the sun. Only
the thumb and forefinger are used in plucking the leaves from the bush; the pickers are generally
women and children, who can gather on the average about forty pounds of leaves in a day. It
takes nearly four pounds of leaves to make one pound of dry tea; and the usual estimate is
that a plantation of one hundred thousand plants can send ten thousand pounds of tea to market
in the course of a year."

"Different kinds of tea require different treatment, as we have already seen. For green tea
the leaves are roasted as soon as they have been gathered, and are then rolled and dried; but
the leaves intended for black teas are spread on bamboo trays five or six inches deep, and
placed on frames where they can have plenty of sun and air. They remain here from noon till
sunset; and if the weather is damp they are further dried by artificial heat. For this purpose
they are placed on frames over shallow pans containing burning charcoal, and are tossed and
stirred with the hand until they emit a certain fragrance. The heat should be very slight;
and the frames are made so high that it is necessary for a man to mount a small ladder in order
to reach the trays.

"The sense of smell in the skillful workers of tea is very acute, and they can tell, to almost
a minute, the exact time when the drying should cease, and the next process begin. The Chinese
workmen are better than any others for this branch of the business, and on many plantations
most of the manipulation is performed by Chinese, though their labor is more expensive than
that of the Malays. Our host showed us through his factory, where the men were busy in the
various processes; and as he told us about each step of the business, he took us to the department
where that particular work was going on.

"After showing the leaves spread out on the frames, he led the way to a sort of stove, where
a man was manipulating some tea in a pan over a charcoal fire."

"'This is what we call roasting,' he said, 'and the great object of the roaster is to dry the
leaves without burning them. You see he does not allow them to be quiet a single instant, but
tosses and turns them in all directions, so that none may stick to the bottom of the pan, which
they might easily do, owing to the moisture they contain.'

"We watched the roasting till we thought we understood it well, and as the place was hot, we
did not care to stay there a great while. The leaves lose their fragrance when first thrown
into the roasting pan, and give out a rank smell, but they gradually recover their perfume,
and are ready for the next process, which is called rolling.

"The tea from the roasting pan was given to a couple of men, who stood in front of a table
or bench, with bamboo mats before them. One had a large mustache, the largest we had ever seen
on a Chinese face, and the other consoled himself for the absence of that hairy ornament by
smoking a pipe.

"The roller takes as much tea as he can cover with both his hands, and places it on the mat
in a sort of ball. He keeps the leaves closely together, and rolls them from right to left;
this motion gives each leaf a twist on itself, and rolls it so firmly that it retains the shape
when dry. This part of the work requires peculiar dexterity, and can only be performed successfully
after long practice. When a man becomes skillful in it, he can roll the tea with wonderful
rapidity; and when his work is done, every leaf will be found separate from the others, and
twisted as though it had been passed through a machine.

"The work of rolling the tea is very tiresome, and so the men sometimes perform it with their
feet when they wish to give their hands a rest. We saw one man at his occupation in this way,
and he certainly seemed to enjoy it.

"After they have been properly rolled, the leaves are spread on trays, and exposed to the sun
and air for several hours, and then they are once more roasted. The second roasting is milder
than the first, and is done over a slower fire; and afterward the leaves are rolled again,
to make sure that none of them have become spread out. For the black tea the roasting is done
in a shallow pan, the same as the first; but the green teas are put in a deep pan, and subjected
to a very high heat.

"While the green tea is being roasted there must be a great deal of care on the part of everybody
concerned. The pan is nearly red-hot when the tea is put into it, about a pound at a time,
and the operator in charge keeps it in rapid motion. One boy tends the fire, while another
stands by with a fan to prevent the burning of the tea.

"After their final roasting the teas are put in a long basket, shaped like an hour-glass, and
having a sieve in the centre. This basket is placed over a charcoal fire and submitted to the
heat for several minutes, when the tea is poured out and receives another rolling. This operation
is repeated several times, till the tea is thoroughly tired of it, and also thoroughly dry.
Then it is passed through sieves, to separate the different qualities from each other; and
finally it is winnowed, to remove all the dust and dirt. Then it is 'fired,' or dried, once
more, to drive away the last particle of moisture; and in this condition it is ready to go
into the chests in which it is carried to the lands where it is to be used."

The boat was in a shallow part of the river, between the shore and a long row of piles that
marked the steamboat channel. Harry sounded with an oar, and found that the water was only
two feet deep. "We'll have to get overboard and drag the boat over the piles," said he, "and
it's going to be a mighty hard job too. That swell threw us over as neat as the bull threw
Joe over the fence up at Lenox last summer."

"When I got pitched over that fence I staid there," said Joe. "I didn't try to get back into
the field where the bull was, and I don't see what we want to get back where the steamboats
are for."

"That's so," exclaimed Harry. "We're safe enough here. Let's get the water out of the boat,
and keep on this side of the piles."

When the boat was made dry, and the lighted lantern was hoisted to the top of the mast, Tom
resumed his place at the helm, and Harry and Joe prepared to take another nap. "I don't want
to grumble," said Joe, "but I wish I didn't have to lie on the coffee-pot and a tin cup. I
don't feel comfortable on that kind of bed."

"I'll change with you if you like," replied Harry. "I'm sleeping on a beautiful soft bottle
of oil, and some sardine boxes; but I don't want to be selfish and keep the best bed for myself."

"Oh, never mind," returned Joe. "I'll manage to sleep if Jim don't step on my face. I always
did hate to have anybody step on my face when I was asleep."

"Well, good-night, everybody," said Harry. "I'm going straight to sleep. Tom, be sure you wake
me up if a steamboat tries to climb over these piles."

This time Tom did not fall asleep at the helm, but the wind gradually died away, and the sail
hung limp and useless. Jim got out the oars without stepping on anybody, and rowed slowly on.
In a little while they came to the end of the shallow lagoon into which the swell had so unexpectedly
cast them. A sand-bank stretched from the shore to the line of piles, and it was impossible
to go any farther. Tom decided to make the boat fast to the limb of a willow-tree that projected
over the water, and to go ashore and sleep on the sand. Neither he nor Jim thought it worth
while to wake the other boys; so they gathered up their blankets, crept quietly out of the
boat, and were soon asleep on the soft, warm sand. When Harry and Joe awoke at daylight, stiff
and cramped, they were disposed to be rather indignant at Tom and Jim, who were sleeping so
comfortably on the sand; but Tom soon convinced them that he had acted from the best of motives,
and they readily forgave him.

Of course breakfast was the first business of the day, and after that was finished the boat
had to be entirely unloaded before she could be lifted over the piles into the channel. For
the first time since they had started on the cruise the breeze was ahead, but it was so light
that it was of very little consequence. The sky was cloudy, and the day promised to be a cool
one; so the boys resolved to take to their oars, and try, if possible, to reach Albany before
night. When the boat was loaded, Tom and Jim each took a long oar, and Harry took his usual
seat in the stern-sheets. They all felt fresh, in spite of their night's adventure, and started
gayly on their intended long day's row.

By this time they had found out that although round tin boxes were very well to keep things
dry, they are by no means handy to carry in a boat. Their shape made it impossible to stow
them compactly. Joe, who sat at the bow, always had to pick his way over these tin boxes in
going to or coming from his station; and he was constantly catching his foot in the spaces
left between the boxes, and falling down on them. This smashed in the covers, and tried Joe's
temper sorely. Once he sat down so violently on the box which held the sugar, that he went
completely through the cover, and was fastened in the box as securely as a cork in a bottle.
He was only released after a great deal of work, and just in time to enable the boys to have
sugar in their coffee at night. Harry resolved that he would never cruise again with round
boxes, but would have small rubber bags made, in which to put everything that required to be
kept dry.

The boys took turns at the oars every hour, and rowed steadily until noon. They gave themselves
an hour for lunch and resting, and then resumed their work. Late in the afternoon they came
in sight of Albany, and went ashore, so as to get their dinner before reaching the city. After
dinner they again pulled away at the oars, and at about nine o'clock they stopped at a lumber-yard
on the outskirts of Albany, and, creeping in among the lumber, wrapped their blankets around
them, and dropped asleep, completely worn out, but proud of their long day's row.

Before sunrise the next morning, Tom was awakened by a stick which was thrust into his ribs.
Without opening his eyes, he muttered, "You quit that, or I'll get up and pound you," and immediately
dropped asleep again. Somebody then kicked him so sharply that he roused himself up, and, opening
his eyes, was dazzled by the gleam of a bull's-eye lantern. He could not at first imagine where
he was; but as he presently found that a big policeman had him by the collar, and was calling
him "an impudent young thief," he began to imagine that something was wrong.

"I've got you this time," said the policeman, "and the whole gang of you. Where did you steal
that property in your boat from, you precious young river pirate?"

"We're not river pirates," replied Tom. "We're Moral Pirates, and we brought those things in
the boat with us from New York."

"Well, I like your cheek!" said the officer; "owning up that you're pirates. Now just you and
your gang take everything out of that boat and let me see what you've got. If any of you try
to escape, I'll put a bullet into you. You hear me?"

The other boys had been awakened by the loud voice of the policeman, and were staring at him
in utter astonishment.

"He thinks we're river thieves," said Tom. "Harry, we'll have to show him what we've got in
the boat, and then he'll see his mistake."

Harry eagerly assured the policeman that they had come from New York on a pleasure cruise,
and had nothing in the boat except provisions and stores. "That's a pretty story," said the
officer. "You can tell that to the court. Your boat's full of junk that you've stolen from
somewhere; and you'd better hand it out mighty quick."

The boys were thus compelled to unload their boat, while the policeman stood over them with
his club in one hand and his lantern in the other. He was not a stupid man, and he soon perceived
that the boys had told him the truth; they were not the gang of river thieves for whom he had
mistaken them. He therefore apologized, in a rough way, and even helped the boys repack the boat.

"What I can't understand," said he, "is why you boys come here and sleep in a lumber-yard,
when you might be sleeping at home in your beds. Now if you were thieves, you couldn't get
any better lodgings, you know; but you're gentlemen's sons, and you ought to know better. Why
don't you go down to the hotel, and live like gentlemen? Where's the fun in being arrested,
and taking up my valuable time?"

The boys assured him that they had never enjoyed themselves more than they had while on the
cruise, and after a little more talk the officer turned slowly away.

"By-the-bye," he exclaimed, suddenly turning back again, "one of you told me you were pirates.
I ought to take you in after all. I believe you're a lot of boys that have been reading dime
novels, and have run away from home."

"I didn't say we were pirates," replied Tom. "I said we were Moral Pirates. That's a very different
thing."

"Of course it is," said Joe. "A Moral Pirate is a sort of missionary, you know. I'm afraid
you don't go to Sunday-school, officer, or you'd know better."

The policeman could not quite make up his mind whether Joe was in joke or in earnest; but as
he could find no real reason for arresting the boys, he contented himself with telling them
to leave the lumber-yard as soon as the sun rose. "And you'd better look out," he added, "that
you don't come across any real river thieves. They'll make no bones of seizing your boat, and
knocking you on the head if you make any noise." When he was fairly out of sight, the boys
crept back to their shelter among the lumber, and coolly went to sleep again. They were so
tired that neither policemen nor river thieves had any terrors for them.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

A CONFESSION.

BY GEORGE N. LOVEJOY.

  "Do you love me?" stammered Benny
    To a bright-eyed little maid;
  "Do you love me, love me, Jenny?--
    I'll not tell; don't be afraid."

