I had walked several minutes in the increasing darkness, when there came to my ears, from the
shades at the right, the sound of a human snore. Had the boy fatigued himself in trying to
find the way, and fallen asleep without knowledge of his nearness to the inn?

"Pierre!" I called. There was no answer.

I called again. Again there was no reply, but the snoring ceased. A third time I called. My
call was unheeded.

I turned into the wilds, and forced my way through dense undergrowth. At a short distance from
the road, I came on traces of the passage of some one else. Following these, I arrived at last
at a small open space, where the absence of vegetation seemed due to some natural cause. Sufficient
of the day's failing light reached the clearing to show me the figures of four men on the ground
before me, three of them stretched in slumber, the fourth sitting up. The last held a huge
old two-handed sword over his shoulder, ready to strike. The threatening attitude of this giant
made me take mechanically a step backward, and feel for my sword. Alas, I was unarmed!

"So, my venturesome lackey, we meet again!" came a sarcastic voice from the left, and some
one darted between me and the four men, facing me with drawn sword.

It was the Vicomte de Berquin, and a triumphant smile was on his face.

Moved by the thought that mademoiselle's safety depended on me, I was not ashamed, being unarmed,
to turn about for immediate flight. But I had no sooner shown my back to M. de Berquin, than
I found myself face to face with the scowling Barbemouche, who stood motionless, the point
of his sword not many inches from my breast.

CHAPTER XI.

HOW THE HERO GAVE HIS WORD AND KEPT IT

I stood still and reflected.

"You lack a weapon," said M. de Berquin, humorously. "I shall presently give you mine, point
first."

As I was still facing Barbemouche, I imagined the point of the Vicomte's sword entering my
back, and I will confess that I shivered.

"And I mine," growled Barbemouche. "Though you are a lackey and I a gentleman, yet, by the
grandmother of Beelzebub, I am glad to see you!"

"Indeed!" said I, whose only hope was to gain time for thought. "This is a heartier welcome
than a stranger might expect."

De Berquin laughed. Barbemouche said, "You are no stranger"

"Then you know me?" said I. "Who am I?"

"You are the answer to a prayer," said Barbemouche, with an ugly grin. "You thought you fooled
us finely last night, and that when you had made a hole in my body you had done with me. But
I got a look at you after the mistake was discovered, and I vowed the virgin a dozen candles
in return for another meeting with you. And now she has sent you to me."

And he looked at me with such jubilant vindictiveness that I turned and faced De Berquin, saying:

"Monsieur the Vicomte, I have made up my mind that your visage is more pleasant to look on
than that of your friend."

By this time, the other three rascals on the ground had been awakened by the tall fellow, and
the four had taken up their weapons and placed themselves at the four sides of the open space,
so that I could not make a bolt in any direction. All the circumstances that made my life at
that time doubly precious rushed into my mind. On it depended the safety of Mlle. de Varion,
the rescue of her father, the expeditious return of my brave company to our Henri's side, and
certain valuable interests of our Henri's cause. I will confess that it was for its use to
mademoiselle, rather than for its use to our Henri, that I most valued, at that moment, the
life which there was every chance of my speedily losing. In De Berquin, and in Barbemouche
as well, vengeance cried for my immediate death. Moreover, my death would remove the chief
obstacle to De Berquin's having his will concerning Mlle. de Varion. For an instant, I thought
he might let me live that I might tell him her whereabouts, but I perceived that my presence
was indication to him that she was near at hand. He could now rely on himself to find her.
The opportunity of removing me from his way was not to be risked by delay. It was true that
I might obtain respite by announcing myself as the Sieur de la Tournoire, for he would wish
to present me alive to the governor, if he could do so. The governor and the Duke of Guise
would desire to season their revenge on me with torture, and to attempt the forcing from me
of secrets of our party. But to make myself known as La Tournoire was but to defer my death.
The life that I might thus prolong could not be of any further service to mademoiselle or to
Henri of Navarre. Still, I might so gain time. I might escape; my men might rescue me. So,
as a last resource, I would save my life by disclosing myself; but I would defer this disclosure
until the last possible instant. De Berquin and Barbemouche were evidently in for amusing themselves
awhile at my expense. They would prolong matters for their own pleasure and my own further
humiliation. Meanwhile, an unexpected means of eluding them might arise.

As for their presence there, I have always accounted for it on this supposition: That, after
their defeat on the previous night, they had reunited in the woods, hidden themselves where
they might observe our departure from the inn in the morning, followed us at a distance into
the mountain forest, lost our track, and finally, knowing neither of Godeau's inn nor of their
nearness to the road, dismounted, and sought afoot an open space in which to pass the night.
Their horses were probably not far away.

"Ha!" laughed De Berquin, in answer to my words and movement. "So you don't share Barbemouche's
own opinion of his beauty?"

An unctuous guffaw from the fat rascal, and a grim chuckle from gaunt Francois, indicated that
Barbemouche's ugliness was a favorite subject of mirth with his comrades.

"The opinion of a dead lackey does not amount to much," gutturally observed Barbemouche. Doubtless
I should have felt the point of his rapier between my shoulders but that he waited on the will
of De Berquin.

His tone showed that he really had the high regard for his looks that De Berquin's words had
implied. It afterward became evident to me that the ugliness of this burly rascal was equalled
only by his vanity.

"Nor is a dead lackey half as useful as a living one can be," I said, looking De Berquin straight
in the eyes.

"Par dieu! I admit that you have been very useful against me, and that is why I am going to
kill you," replied De Berquin.

"Would it not be more worthy of a man of intellect, like the Vicomte de Berquin, if I have
been useful against him, to make me pay for it by being useful for him?" I said, quietly, without
having yet the least idea of what service I should propose doing him in return for my life.

"Most interesting of lackeys, how might you be useful to me?" inquired De Berquin, continuing
his mood of sinister jocularity.

How, indeed? I asked myself. Aloud I answered slowly, in order to have the more time to think:

"In your present enterprise, monsieur."

"The devil! What do you know of my present enterprise?" he asked, quickly.

I saw that I had at least awakened his interest in the idea that I might be worth using alive.

"I will tell you," I answered, "if you will first ask this unpleasant person behind me to step
aside."

"Unpleasant person!" repeated Barbemouche, astonished at my audacity. "You dog, do you speak
in such terms of a gentleman?"

So he was under the delusion also that he possessed gentility.

"Stop, Gilles!" commanded De Berquin. "Go yonder, while I listen to this amusing knave. Let
him talk awhile before he dies."

Barbemouche sullenly went over to the side of Francois, and stood there glowering at me. It
was a relief to know that his sword-point was no longer at my back.

"Now, rascal!" said De Berquin to me. "My present enterprise, and how you can be useful to
me in it?"

"In the first place, monsieur," I began, having no knowledge how I was to finish, "you and
your gallant company are doubtless tired, hungry, and thirsty--"

An assenting grunt from the tall fellow, and a look of keen interest on the faces of all, showed
that I had not spoken amiss.

"You are quite lost in these woods," I went on. "You do not know how near you may be to any
road or to any habitation, where you might have roof, food, and drink. Heaven, in giving me
the pleasure of meeting you, has also done you the kindness of sending one who can guide you
to these blessings. That is the first service I can do you."

"Very well, you shall do it. I can kill you as well afterwards."

"But I will not do it unless I have your promise, on your honor as gentlemen, to give me both
my life and my liberty immediately."

"My very modest lackey, you greatly undervalue both your life and your liberty, if you think
you can buy them from me at so small a cost. No; you offer too little. The pleasure of killing
you far exceeds that of having your guidance. Now that we have happily met you, we know that
there must be shelter, food, and drink somewhere near at hand. We can find them for ourselves
in as short a time, perhaps, as it would require you to take us there. We shall doubtless have
the happiness of meeting there your very gallant master and the lady whom he protects with
your arm and sword. Having robbed him of his means of guarding his lovely charge, I shall in
fairness relieve him of the charge."

I perceived here the opportunity of learning whether it was under the governor's orders, received
through Montignac, that De Berquin pursued mademoiselle while he came in quest of the Sieur
de la Tournoire, or whether it was on his own account.

"Your infatuation for this lady must be very great," I said, in a tone too low for his four
followers to distinguish my words, "to lead you to force your presence on her."

"My infatuation!" he repeated, and then he laughed. "My very knowing lackey, if you were better
informed of my affairs, you would know that an infatuation for Mlle. de Varion is a luxury
that I cannot at present afford. A man who has lost his estates, his money, his king's favor,
and who has fled from his creditors in Paris to prey on the provinces, thinks not of love,
but of how to refill his pockets."

"Then it is not for love that you pursue Mile, de Varion?" I said. I now believed, as I had
first thought, that the governor had changed his mind after ordering mademoiselle to leave
the province, had decided to hold her in durance, and had commissioned De Berquin to detain
her, as well as to hunt down me. But I put the question in order to get further time for thought.

"For love, yes; but not for mine!" was the answer.

This startled me. "For that of M. de la Chatre?" I asked, quickly.

"You seem to be curious on this point," said De Berquin, derisively.

"If I am to die," I replied, "you can lose nothing by gratifying my curiosity. If I am to live,
I may be the better able to serve you if you gratify it."

"I am not one to refuse the request of a man about to die," he said, with a self-amused look.
"It is not La Chatre, the superb, whose amour I have come into this cursed wilderness to serve."

"Then who--?" But I stopped at the beginning of the question, as a new thought came to me.
"The secretary!" I said.

"Montignac, the modest and meditative," replied De Berquin.

I might have thought it. What man of his age, however given to deep study and secret ambition,
could have been insensible to her beauty, her grace, her gentleness? Such a youth as Montignac
would pass a thousand women indifferently, and at last perceive in Mlle. de Varion at first
glance the perfections that distinguished her from others of her sex. Doubtless, to him, as
to me, she embodied an ideal, a dream, of which he had scarcely dared hope to find the realization.
Seeing her at the inn, he had been warmed by her charms at once. He had resolved to avail himself
of his power and of her helplessness. Her father in prison, herself an exile without one powerful
friend, she would be at his mercy. Forbidden by his duties to leave the governor's side, he
could charge De Berquin, in giving the latter the governor's orders concerning myself, with
the additional task of securing the person of mademoiselle, that he might woo her at his leisure
and in his own way. The governor, ready enough to frighten into an unwarranted exile a woman
whose entreaties he feared, would yet not be so ungallant as to give her to his secretary for
the asking. But Montignac might safely hold her prisoner, the governor would think that she
had left the province, there would be none to rescue her. Such were the acts, designs, and
thoughts that I attributed to the reticent, far-seeing, resolute secretary. All passed through
my mind in a moment.

And now I feared for mademoiselle as I had not feared before. I never feared a man, or two
men at a time, who came with sword in hand; but how is one to meet or even to perceive the
blows aimed by men of thought and power? Such as Montignac, inscrutable, patient, ingenious,
strong enough to conceal their own passions, which themselves are more intense and far more
lasting than the passions of a mere man of fighting, are not easily turned aside from the quest
of any object on which they have put their desires. One against whom they have set themselves
is never safe from them while they live. Years do not make them either give up or forget. Montignac,
by reason of his influence over the governor, had vast resources to employ. He could turn the
machinery of government to his own ends, and the trustful governor not suspect. In that slim
youth, smooth-faced, pale, repressed, grave, not always taking the trouble to erase from his
features the signs of his scorn for ordinary minds, a scorn mingled with a sense of his own
power and with a kind of derisive mirth,--in this quiet student I beheld an antagonist more
formidable than any against whom I had ever been pitted. In thinking of him, I came at once
to regard De Berquin, who still stood facing me with ready sword, and on his face the intention
of killing me plainly written, as a very inconsiderable opponent, even when backed by his four
ruffians with their varied collection of weapons.

If I was to save Mlle. de Varion from the designs of the far-reaching secretary, it was time
that I eluded the danger immediately confronting me.

For a few moments after De Berquin uttered the speech last recorded, I stood silent, my eyes
meeting his.

"Come," he said, presently, impatiently giving several turns of his wrist so that his sword-point
described arcs in the air before my eyes. "We wander from the subject. What service can you
do me? Don't think you can keep me talking until your party happens to come up. I intend to
kill you when I shall have counted twenty, unless before that time you make it appear worth
my while to let you live. One, two, three--"

His look showed that he had ceased to be amused at my situation. Alive, I had begun to bore
him. It was time to make sure of his vengeance. His men stood on all sides to prevent my flight.
At my least movement, he would thrust his rapier deep into my body. He went on counting. What
could I offer him to make him stay his hand? Was there anything in the world that he might
desire which it would appear to be in my power to give him?

"Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen," he counted, taking exact note of the distance between us.

As in a flash the idea came to me.

"Monsieur," I said, loudly, so as to be plainly heard above his own voice, "let me go and I
will deliver to you the Sieur de la Tournoire!"

He had reached nineteen in his count. He stopped there and stared at me.

"The Sieur de la Tournoire," he repeated, as if the idea of his taking the Sieur de la Tournoire
were a new one.

"You speak, monsieur," said I, quietly, "as if you had not come to these hills for the purpose
of catching him."

He looked at me with a kind of surprise, but said nothing in reply to my remark. "It is natural,"
thought I, "for him not to disclose his purpose, even when there is no use for him to conceal it."

"I take La Tournoire?" he said, presently, half to himself. He stood thinking for a time, during
which I supposed that he was considering the propriety of his personally making the capture,
in view of the plan that I had overheard Montignac suggest to the governor, namely, that the
spy should merely lure La Tournoire into an ambush where the governor's soldiers should make
the seizure. The spy had doubtless received orders strictly in accordance with this plan, La
Tournoire being considered too great game to be bagged by anything less than a company of soldiers.

"Why not?" said I. "Whoever does so will receive a good price in addition to the gratitude
of M. de la Chatre and that of the Duke of Guise. Indeed, the feat might even win you back
the King's favor, which you say you have lost."

"But suppose Montignac has other plans for the capture of this highly valued rebel?" said he.

"If he had," said I, thinking of the arrangement as to the ambush, "they were made in the belief
that La Tournoire was not to be taken by one man with a few hired knaves. The captor of La
Tournoire can afford to earn Montignac's displeasure by deviating from his orders. Should you
take this Huguenot, you would be in a position to snap your fingers at Montignac."

"But if it is in your power to give up La Tournoire, why do you not take him and get the reward?
Why have you not done so already?"

"For the very fact which puts it in my power to do so. I am of his party. I am his trusted
counsellor, lackey that I pretend to be."

"I have, from the first, thought you a most exceptional lackey. But if you are of his party,
and in his secrets, you must be a vile traitor to give him up. That being the case, you would
not hesitate to lie to me. Indeed, even if it were not the case, you would not hesitate to
lie to me, to save yourself or to gain time."

"As to my being a vile traitor, a man will descend to much in order to save his life. As to
my readiness to lie to you, it seems to me that, in the present situation, you are the one
man to whom I cannot now afford to lie. With your sword at my throat, it is much easier for
me to be a vile traitor to La Tournoire than to lie to you. Besides, I have my own reasons
for disliking him, notwithstanding that my cause and his are the same."

"And how do you propose to give him up to me?"

"By merely bringing him face to face with you."

"Par dieu! A charming proposition! How do I know that you will not, in pretending to betray
him to me, really betray me to him? Suppose you do bring him face to face with me, and his
men are all around?"

"Only one of his men shall be present," I said, thinking of Blaise. "He will not come without
this one man. As for the others of his band, not one shall be within a league."

"Himself and one man," said De Berquin, musingly. "That is to say, two very able fighters."

"There are five of you."

"But this Tournoire is doubtless worth three men in a fight, and his man will probably be worth
two more. I don't think your offer sufficiently attractive. I think I would do better to kill
you. Certainly, there are many reasons why you should die. If you should escape me now, as
you are one of La Tournoire's people, you would immediately go to him and tell him of my presence
here. I do not choose that he shall know as much about me as you do."

"Can you suggest any amendment to my offer, so that it might be more attractive?"

"If you could bring La Tournoire unarmed--"

"I will do that," I said.

De Berquin looked at me steadily for some time. At last he shook his head and said:

"It is a fair bargain, as it now stands, but I see no way of your carrying out your part without
putting me in danger of your betraying me. To find La Tournoire, you would have to leave us.
Once out of our sight, you would be free to ignore the contract, laugh at me for being so easily
gulled, and set La Tournoire and his men on me, which would entirely spoil my plans. Every
minute I see more and more the necessity of killing you."

"But I shall find La Tournoire without going out of your sight," I said.

De Berquin again became thoughtful. Then he laughed.

"You mean that you would lead us up to his very den, where we should be at the mercy of his
men," he said.

"I have already said that, with one exception, none of his men shall be within a league of
where you are to meet him."

"I do not see how you are going to bring him so far from his men, if you do not go for him."

"Leave that to me. I shall take you to a place where he will present himself unarmed. Excepting
the man who will be with him, not one of his company shall be within a league."

"Where is the place?" asked De Berquin, still smiling ironically.

"Not far from here. It is a place where you can get also wine and food."

"And how am I to know that this place is not a trap into which you wish to lead me?"

"You shall walk behind me with drawn sword and dagger. At the slightest suspicious movement
or speech that I make, you can easily kill me."

"That is true. Yet I might lose my own life the next moment. Who knows but that you are merely
seeking to sell your life as dearly as possible, or but that you are aiming to gain time in
the hope of some unexpected occurrence?"

"Monsieur," said I, "we both know that men cannot read the heart. You cannot be sure whether
or not I am lying. You indeed take the risk that I wish to lead you where you will have to
pay for my life with your own, and that I am trying to gain time; but, at the same time, there
is the chance that I intend to keep my word, that I intend to present the Sieur de la Tournoire
unarmed, and a league away from all his men but one. Is not that chance worth the risk? Have
you not gambled, monsieur?"

From the shrug of De Berquin's shoulders, I knew that he had gambled, and also that my argument
had moved him. But another doubt darkened his face.

"And if you do bring an unarmed person before me, how shall I know that it is La Tournoire?"
said he.

"He shall tell you so himself."

"Excellent proof!"

"What man but La Tournoire would risk his life by declaring himself to be that proscribed gentleman?"

"One of his followers might do so, if he thought that he might so throw an enemy off La Tournoire's
track."

"Then the possibility of my deceiving you on that point is but an additional risk you run,
in return for the chance of your bagging the real game. Besides, I give you my word of honor
that I will truly perform all that I promise."

"The word of a lackey!" said De Berquin, derisively.

"Have you not yourself described me as an exceptional lackey?"

"Well, I love to take chances. And as you have given me your word, the word of an exceptional
lackey, I give you my word, the word of a gentleman, that if you set La Tournoire unarmed before
me, with but one of his men at hand, I will give you your life and freedom. But stay! At what
time am I to have the pleasure of meeting him?"

"When we hear the stroke of eight from the tower of the church in Clochonne. The wind this
evening is from that direction. It is agreed, then?"

