The breadth of John Bunyan's mind, the largeness of his heart, and the tolerance of his temper
all come excellently out in his fine portrait of Faithful.  New beginners in personal religion,
when they first take up The Pilgrim's Progress in earnest, always try to find out something
in themselves that shall somewhat correspond to the recorded experience of Christian, the chief
pilgrim.  And they are afraid that all is not right with them unless they, like him, have had,
to begin with, a heavy burden on their back.  They look for something in their religious life
that shall answer to the Slough of Despond also, to the Hill Difficulty, to the House Beautiful,
and, especially and indispensably, to the place somewhat ascending with a cross upon it and
an open sepulchre beneath it. And because they cannot always find all these things in themselves
in the exact order and in the full power in which they are told of Christian in Bunyan's book,
they begin to have doubts about themselves as to whether they are true pilgrims at all.  But
here is Faithful, with whom Christian held such sweet and confidential discourse, and yet he
had come through not a single one of all these things.  The two pilgrims had come from the
same City of Destruction indeed, and they had met at the gate of Vanity and passed through
Vanity Fair together, but, till they embraced one another again in the Celestial City, that
was absolutely all the experience they had in common.  Faithful had never had any such burden
on his back as that was which had for so long crushed Christian to the earth.  And the all
but complete absence of such a burden may have helped to let Faithful get over the Slough of
Despond dry shod.  He had the good lot to escape Sinai also and the Hill Difficulty, and his
passing by the House Beautiful and not making the acquaintance of Discretion and Prudence and
Charity may have had something to do with the fact that one named Wanton had like to have done
him such a mischief.  His remarkable experiences, however, with Adam the First, with Moses,
and then with the Man with holes in His hands, all that makes up a page in Faithful's autobiography
we could ill have spared.  His encounter with Shame also, and soon afterwards with Talkative,
are classical passages in his so individual history.  Altogether, it would be almost impossible
for us to imagine two pilgrims talking so heartily together, and yet so completely unlike one
another.  A very important lesson surely as to how we should abstain from measuring other men
by ourselves, as well as ourselves by other men; an excellent lesson also as to how we should
learn to allow for all possible varieties among good men, both in their opinions, their experiences,
and their attainments.  True Puritan as the author of The Pilgrim's Progress is, he is no Procrustes.
He does not cut down all his pilgrims to one size, nor does he clip them all into one pattern.
They are all thinking men, but they are not all men of one way of thinking.  John Bunyan is
as fresh as Nature herself, and as free and full as Holy Scripture herself in the variety,
in the individuality, and even in the idiosyncrasy of his spiritual portrait gallery.

Vanity Fair is one of John Bunyan's universally-admitted masterpieces. The very name of the
fair is one of his happiest strokes.  Thackeray's famous book owes half its popularity to the
happy name he borrowed from John Bunyan.  Thackeray's author's heart must have leaped in his
bosom when Vanity Fair struck him as a title for his great satire.  And from that again he
goes on to tell how the Prince of princes Himself went at one time through this same fair,
and that upon a fair day too, and how the lord of the fair himself came and took Him from street
to street to try to get Him induced to cheapen and buy some of the vain merchandise.  But as
it turned out He had no mind to the merchandise in question, and He therefore passed through
the town without laying out so much as one farthing upon its vanities.  The fair, therefore,
you will see, is of long standing and a very great fair.  Now, our two pilgrims had heard of
all that, they remembered also what Evangelist had told them about the fair, and so they buttoned
up their pockets and pushed through the booths in the hope of getting out at the upper gate
before any one had time to speak to them.  But that was not possible, for they were soon set
upon by the men of the fair, who cried after them: 'Hail, strangers, look here, what will you
buy?'  'We buy the truth only,' said Faithful, 'and we do not see any of that article of merchandise
set out on any of your stalls.'  And from that began a hubbub that ended in a riot, and the
riot in the apprehension and shutting up in a public cage of the two innocent pilgrims.  Lord
Hate-good was the judge on the bench of Vanity in the day of their trial, and the three witnesses
who appeared in the witness-box against the two prisoners were Envy, Superstition, and Pickthank.
And it was before these men that Faithful was brought forth to his trial in order to his condemnation.
And, all I could do to keep the whole thing out of my mind, one similarity after another would
leap up into my mind and would not be put out of it.  I protest that I did not go out to seek
for such similarities, but the more I frowned on them the thicker they came.  And then the
further question arose as to whether I should write them down or no; and then much more, as
to whether I should set them out before my people or no.  As you will easily believe, I was
immediately in a real strait as to what I should do.  I saw on the one side what would be sure
to be said by ill-natured people and people of a hasty judgment.  And I saw with much more
anxiety what would be felt even when they restrained themselves from saying it by timid and
cautious and scrupulous people.  I had the full fear of all such judges before my eyes; but,
somehow, something kept this before my eyes also, that, as Evangelist met the two pilgrims
just as they were entering the fair, so, for anything I knew to the contrary, it might be of
God, that I also, in my own way, should warn my people of the real and special danger that
their souls will be in for the next fortnight.  And as I thought of it a procession of people
passed before me all bearing to this day the stains and scars they had taken on their hearts
and their lives and their characters at former general elections.  And, like Evangelist, I
felt a divine desire taking possession of me to do all I could to pull my people out of gunshot
of the devil at this election.  And, then, when I read again how both the pilgrims thanked
Evangelist for his exhortation, and told him withal that they would have him speak further
to them about the dangers of the way, I said at last to myself, that the thanks of one true
Christian saved in anything and in any measure from the gun of the devil are far more to be
attended to by a minister than the blame and the neglect of a hundred who do not know their
hour of temptation and will not be told it.  And so I took my pen and set down some similarities
between Vanity Fair and the approaching election, with some lessons to those who are not altogether
beyond being taught.

Well, then, in the first place, the only way to the Celestial City ran through Vanity Fair;
by no possibility could the advancing pilgrims escape the temptations and the dangers of the
fatal fair.  He that will go to the Celestial City and yet not go through Vanity Fair must
needs go out of the world.  And so it is with the temptations and trials of the next ten days.
We cannot get past them.  They are laid down right across our way.  And to many men now in
this house the next ten days will be a time of simply terrible temptation.  If I had been quite
sure that all my people saw that and felt that, I would not have introduced here to-night what
some of them, judging too hastily, will certainly call this so secular and unseemly subject.
But I am so afraid that many not untrue, and in other things most earnest men amongst us, do
not yet know sufficiently the weakness and the evil of their own hearts, that I wish much,
if they will allow me, to put them on their guard.  And you may be sure that we are full of
hurry at fair-time.  He that lives in such a place as this is, and that has to do with such
as we have to do with, has need of an item to caution him to take heed every hour of the day.'
Now, if all my people, and all this day's communicants, were only contrite enough, I would
leave them to the hurry of the approaching election with much more comfort.  But as it is,
I wish to give them such an item as I am able to caution them for the next ten days.  Let them
know, then, that their way for the next fortnight lies, I will not say through a fair of jugglings
and cheatings, carried on by apes and knaves, but, to speak without figure, their way certainly
lies through what will be to many of them a season of the greatest temptation to the very worst
of all possible sins--to anger and bitterness and ill-will; to no end of evil-thinking and
evil-speaking; to the breaking up of lifelong friendships; and to widespread and lasting damage
to the cause of Christ, which is the cause of truth and love, meekness and a heavenly mind.
Now, amid all that, as Evangelist said to the two pilgrims, look well to your own hearts. 
Let none of all these evil things enter your heart from the outside, and let none of all these
evil things come out of your hearts from the inside. Set your faces like a flint from the beginning
against all evil-speaking and evil-thinking.  Let your own election to the kingdom of heaven
be always before you, and walk worthy of it; and amid all the hurry of things seen and temporal,
believe steadfastly concerning the things that are eternal, and walk worthy of them.

'We buy the truth and we sell it not again for anything,' was the reply of the two pilgrims
to every stall-keeper as they passed up the fair, and this it was that made them to be so hated
and hunted down by the men of the fair.  And, in like manner, there is nothing more difficult
to get hold of at an election time than just the very truth.  All the truth on any question
is not very likely to be found put forward in the programme of any man or any party, and, even
if it were, a general election is not the best time for you to find it out.  'I design the
search after truth to be the one business of my life,' wrote the future Bishop Butler at the
age of twenty-one.  And whether you are to be a member of Parliament or a silent voter for
a member of Parliament, you, too, must love truth and search for her as for hid treasure from
your youth up.  You must search for all kinds of truth,--historical, political, scientific,
and religious,--with much reading, much observation, and much reflection.  And those who have
searched longest and dug deepest will always be found to be the most temperate, patient, and
forbearing with those who have not yet found the truth.  I do not know who first said it, but
he was a true disciple of Socrates and Plato who first said it.  'Plato,' he said, 'is my friend,
and Socrates is my friend, but the truth is much more my friend.'  There is a thrill of enthusiasm,
admiration and hope that goes through the whole country and comes down out of history as often
as we hear or read of some public man parting with all his own past, as well as with all his
leaders and patrons and allies and colleagues in the present, and taking his solitary way out
after the truth.  Many may call that man Quixotic, visionary, unpractical, imprudent, and he
may be all that and more, but to follow conscience and the love of truth even when they are
for the time leading him wrong is noble, and is every way far better both for himself and for
the cause he serves, than if he were always found following his leaders loyally and even walking
in the way of righteousness with the love of self and the love of party at bottom ruling his
heart.  How healthful and how refreshing at an election time it is to hear a speech replete
with the love of the truth, full knowledge of the subject, and with the dignity, the good temper,
the respect for opponents, and the love of fair play that full knowledge of the whole subject
is so well fitted to bring with it!  And next to hearing such a speaker is the pleasure of
meeting such a hearer or such a reader at such a time.  Now, I want such readers and such hearers,
if not such speakers, to be found all the next fortnight among my office-bearers and my people.
Be sure you say to some of your political opponents something like this:--'I do not profess
to read all the speeches that fill the papers at present.  I do not read all the utterances
made even on my own side, and much less all the utterances made on your side.  But there is
one of your speakers I always read, and I almost always find him instructive and impressive,
a gentleman, if not a Christian.  He is fair, temperate, frank, bold, and independent; and,
to my mind at least, he always throws light on these so perplexing questions.'  Now, if you
have the intelligence and the integrity and the fair-mindedness to say something like that
to a member of the opposite party you have poured oil on the waters of party; nay, you are
in that a wily politician, for you have almost, just in saying that, won over your friend to
your own side.  So noble is the love of truth, and so potent is the high-principled pursuit
and the fearless proclamation of the truth.

A general election is a trying time to all kinds of public men, but it is perhaps most trying
of all to Christian ministers.  Unless they are to disfranchise themselves and are to detach
and shut themselves in from all interest in public affairs altogether, an election time is
to our ministers, beyond any other class of citizens perhaps, a peculiarly trying time.  How
they are to escape the Scylla of cowardice and the contempt of all free and true men on the
one hand, and the Charybdis of pride and self-will and scorn of other men's opinions and wishes
on the other, is no easy dilemma to our ministers.  Some happily constituted and happily circumstanced
ministers manage to get through life, and even through political life, without taking or giving
a wound in all their way.  They are so wise and so watchful; they are so inoffensive, unprovoking,
and conciliatory; and even where they are not always all that, they have around them sometimes
a people who are so patient and tolerant and full of the old-fashioned respect for their minister
that they do not attempt to interfere with him.  Then, again, some ministers preach so well,
and perform all their pastoral work so well, that they make it unsafe and impossible for the
most censorious and intolerant of their people to find fault with them.  But all our ministers
are not like that.  And all our congregations are not like that.  And those of our ministers
who are not like that must just be left to bear that which their past unwisdom or misfortune
has brought upon them.  Only, if they have profited by their past mistakes or misfortunes,
a means of grace, and an opportunity of better playing the man is again at their doors.  I
am sure you will all join with me in the prayer that all our ministers, as well as all their
people, may come well out of the approaching election.

There is yet one other class of public men, if I may call them so, many of whom come almost
worse out of an election time than even our ministers, and that class is composed of those,
who, to continue the language of Vanity Fair, keep the cages of the fair.  I wish I had to-
night, what I have not, the ear of the conductors of our public journals. For, what an omnipotence
in God's providence to this generation for good or evil is theirs!  If they would only all
consider well at election times, and at all times, who they put into their cages and for what
reason; if they would only all ask what can that man's motives be for throwing such dirt at
his neighbour; if they would only all set aside all the letters they will get during the next
fortnight that are avowedly composed on the old principle of calumniating boldly in the certainty
that some of it will stick, what a service they would do to the cause of love and truth and
justice, which is, surely, after all, their own cause also!  The very best papers sin sadly
in this respect when their conductors are full for the time of party passion.  And it is inexpressibly
sad when a reader sees great journals to which he owes a lifelong debt of gratitude absolutely
poisoned under his very eyes with the malignant spirit of untruthful partisanship.

My brethren, this is the last time this season that I shall be able to speak to you from this
pulpit; and, perhaps, the last time altogether. But, if it so turns out, I shall not repent
that the last time I spoke to you, and that, too, immediately after the communion table, the
burden of my message was the burden of my Master's message after the first communion table.
'If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them.  A new commandment I give unto you, that
ye love one another.  By this shall all men know that ye are My disciples, if ye have love
one to another. Herein is My Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be My disciples.
Ye call Me Master and Lord, and ye say well, for so I am.'

BY-ENDS

   'Ye seek Me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat
   of the loaves.'--Our Lord.

In no part of John Bunyan's ingenious book is his strong sense and his sarcastic and humorous
vein better displayed than just in his description of By-ends, and in the full and particular
account he gives of the kinsfolk and affinity of By-ends.  Is there another single stroke in
all sacred literature better fitted at once to teach the gayest and to make the gravest smile
than just John Bunyan's sketch of By-ends' great-grandfather, the founder of the egoistical
family of Fairspeech, who was, to begin with, but a waterman who always looked one way and
rowed another?  By-ends' wife also is a true helpmate to her husband.  She was my Lady Feigning's
favourite daughter, under whose nurture and example the young lady had early come to a quite
extraordinary pitch of good breeding; and now that she was a married woman, she and her husband
had, so their biographer tells us, two firm points of family religion in which they were always
agreed and according to which they brought up all their children, namely, never to strive too
much against wind and tide, and always to watch when Religion was walking on the sunny side
of the street in his silver slippers, and then at once to cross over and take his arm.  But
abundantly amusing and entertaining as John Bunyan is at the expense of By-ends and his family
and friends, he has far other aims in view than the amusement and entertainment of his readers.
Bunyan uses all his great gifts of insight and sense and humour and scorn so as to mark unmistakably
the road and to guide the progress of his reader's soul to God, his chiefest end and his everlasting
portion.

It was no small part of our Lord's life of humiliation on the earth,--much more so than His
being born in a low condition and being made under the law,--to have to go about all His days
among men, knowing in every case and on every occasion what was in man.  It was a real humiliation
to our Lord to see those watermen of the sea of Tiberias sweating at their oars as they rowed
round and round the lake after Him; and His humiliation came still more home to Him as often
as He saw His own disciples disputing and pressing who should get closest to Him while for
a short season He walked in the sunshine; just as it was His estate of exaltation already begun,
when He could enter into Himself and see to the bottom of His own heart, till He was able to
say that it was His very meat and drink to do His father's will, and to finish the work His
Father had given Him to do.  The men of Capernaum went out after our Lord in their boats because
they had eaten of the multiplied loaves and hoped to do so again.  Zebedee's children had forsaken
all and followed our Lord, because they counted to sit the one on His right hand and the other
on His left hand in His soon-coming kingdom.  The pain and the shame all that cost our Lord,
we can only remotely imagine.  But as for Himself, our Lord never once had to blush in secret
at His own motives.  He never once had to hang down His head at the discovery of His own selfish
aims and by-ends.  Happy man!  The thought of what He should eat or what He should drink or
wherewithal He should be clothed never troubled His head. The thought of success, as His poor-spirited
disciples counted success, the thought of honour and power and praise, never once rose in His
heart. All these things, and all things like them, had no attraction for Him; they awoke nothing
but indifference and contempt in him.  But to please His Father and to hear from time to time
His Father's voice saying that He was well pleased with His beloved Son,--that was better than
life to our Lord.  To find out and follow every new day His Father's mind and will, and to
finish every night another part of His Father's appointed work,--that was more than His necessary
food to our Lord.  The great schoolmen, as they meditated on these deep matters, had a saying
to the effect that all created things take their true goodness or their true evil from the
end they aim at.  And thus it was that our Lord, aiming only at His Father's ends and never
at His own, both manifested and attained to a Divine goodness, just as the greedy crowds of
Galilee and the disputatious disciples, as long and as far as they made their belly or their
honour their end and aim, to that extent fell short of all true goodness, all true satisfaction,
and all true acceptance.

By-ends was so called because he was full of low, mean, selfish motives, and of nothing else.
All that this wretched creature did, he did with a single eye to himself.  The best things
that he did became bad things in his self-seeking hands.  His very religion stank in those
men's nostrils who knew what was in his heart.  By-ends was one of our Lord's whited sepulchres.
And so deep, so pervading, and so abiding is this corrupt taint in human nature, that long
after a man has had his attention called to it, and is far on to a clean escape from it, he
still--nay, he all the more--languishes and faints and is ready to die under it.  Just hear
what two great servants of God have said on this humiliating and degrading matter.  Writing
on this subject with all his wonted depth and solemnity, Hooker says, 'Even in the good things
that we do, how many defects are there intermingled!  For God in that which is done, respecteth
especially the mind and intention of the doer.  Cut off, then, all those things wherein we
have regarded our own glory, those things which we do to please men, or to satisfy our own
liking, those things which we do with any by-respect, and not sincerely and purely for the
love of God, and a small score will serve for the number of our righteous deeds.  Let the holiest
and best things we do be considered.  We are never better affected to God than when we pray;
yet, when we pray, how are our affections many times distracted!  How little reverence do we
show to that God unto whom we speak!  How little remorse of our own miseries!  How little taste
of the sweet influence of His tender mercy do we feel!  The little fruit we have in holiness,
it is, God knoweth, corrupt and unsound; we put no confidence at all in it, we challenge nothing
in the world for it, we dare not call God to a reckoning as if we had Him in our debt-books;
our continued suit to Him is, and must be, to bear with our infirmities, and to pardon our
offences.'  And Thomas Shepard, a divine of a very different school, as we say, but a saint
and a scholar equal to the best, and indeed with few to equal him, thus writes in his Spiritual
Experiences:--'On Sabbath morning I saw that I had a secret eye to my own name in all that
I did, for which I judged myself worthy of death.  On another Sabbath, when I came home, I
saw the deep hypocrisy of my heart, that in my ministry I sought to comfort and quicken others,
that the glory might reflect on me as well as on God.  On the evening before the sacrament
I saw that mine own ends were to procure honour, pleasure, gain to myself, and not to the Lord,
and I saw how impossible it was for me to seek the Lord for Himself, and to lay up all my honour
and all my pleasures in Him.  On Sabbath-day, when the Lord had given me some comfortable enlargements,
I searched my heart and found my sin.  I saw that though I did to some extent seek Christ's
glory, yet I sought it not alone, but my own glory too.  After my Wednesday sermon I saw the
pride of my heart acting thus, that presently my heart would look out and ask whether I had
done well or ill.  Hereupon I saw my vileness to make men's opinions my rule.  The Lord thus
gave me some glimpse of myself and a good day that was to me.'  One would think that this was
By-ends himself climbed up into the ministry.  And so it was.  And yet David Brainerd could
write on his deathbed about Thomas Shepard in this way.  'He valued nothing in religion that
was not done to the glory of God, and, oh! that others would lay the stress of religion here
also.  His method of examining his ends and aims and the temper of his mind both before and
after preaching, is an excellent example for all who bear the sacred character.  By this means
they are like to gain a large acquaintance with their own hearts, as it is evident he had with
his.'

