UMBRELLAS AND THEIR HISTORY

BY

WILLIAM SANGSTER.

"Munimen ad imbres."

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY

CHAPTER II.

THE ANCIENT HISTORY OF THE UMBRELLA

CHAPTER III.

THE UMBRELLA IN ENGLAND

CHAPTER IV.

THE STORY OF THE PARACHUTE

CHAPTER V.

UMBRELLA STORIES

CHAPTER VI.

THE REGENERATION OF THE UMBRELLA

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

Can it be possibly believed, by the present eminently practical generation, that a busy people
like the English, whose diversified occupations so continually expose them to the chances and
changes of a proverbially fickle sky, had ever been ignorant of the blessings bestowed on them
by that dearest and truest friend in need and in deed, the UMBRELLA? Can you, gentle reader,
for instance, realise to yourself the idea of a man not possessing such a convenience for rainy
weather?

Why so much unmerited ridicule should be poured upon the head (or handle) of the devoted Umbrella,
it is hard to say. What is there comic in an Umbrella? Plain, useful, and unpretending, if
any of man's inventions ever deserved sincere regard, the Umbrella is, we maintain, that invention.
Only a few years back those who carried Umbrellas were held to be legitimate butts. They were
old fogies, careful of their health, and so on; but now-a-days we are wiser. Everybody has
his Umbrella. It is both cheaper and better made than of old; who, then, so poor he cannot
afford one? To see a man going out in the rain umbrella-less excites as much mirth as ever
did the sight of those who first--wiser than their generation--availed themselves of this now
universal shelter. Yet still a touch of the amusing clings to the "Gamp," as it is sarcastically
called. 'What says Douglas Jerrold on the subject? "There are three things that no man but
a fool lends, or, having lent, is not in the most helpless state of mental crassitude if he
ever hopes to get back again. These three things, my son, are--BOOKS, UMBRELLAS, and MONEY!
I believe a certain fiction of the law assumes a remedy to the borrower; but I know of no case
in which any man, being sufficiently dastard to gibbet his reputation as plaintiff in such
a suit, ever fairly succeeded against the wholesome prejudices of society. Umbrellas may be
'hedged about' by cobweb statutes; I will not swear it is not so; there may exist laws that
make such things property; but sure I am that the hissing contempt, the loud-mouthed indignation
of all civilised society, 'would sibilate and roar at the bloodless poltroon who should engage
law on his side to obtain for him the restitution of a--lent Umbrella!"

Strange to say, it is a fact, melancholy enough, but for all that too true, that our forefathers,
scarce seventy years agone, meekly endured the pelting of the pitiless storm without that protection
vouchsafed to their descendants by a kind fate and talented inventors. The fact is, the Umbrella
forms one of the numerous conveniences of life which seem indispensable to the present generation,
because just so long a time has passed since their introduction, that the contrivances which,
in some certain degree, previously supplied their place, have passed into oblivion.

We feel the convenience we possess, without being always aware of the gradations which intervened
between it and the complete inconvenience of being continually unsheltered from the rain, without
any kind friend from whom to seek the protection so ardently desired.

Fortunately a very simple process will enable the reader to realise the fact in its full extent;
he need only walk about in a pelting shower for some hours without an Umbrella, or when the
weight of a cloak would be insupportable, and at the same time remember that seventy years
ago a luxury he can now purchase in almost every street, was within the reach of but very few,
while omnibuses and cabs were unknown.

But, apart from considerations of comfort, we may safely claim very much higher qualities as
appertaining to the Umbrella. We may even reckon it among the causes that have contributed
to lengthen the average of human life, and hold it a most effective agent in the great increase
which took place in the population of England between the years 1750 and 1850 as compared with
the previous century. The Registrar-General, in his census-report, forgot to mention this fact,
but there appears to us not the slightest doubt that the introduction of the Umbrella at the
latter part of the former, and commencement of the present century, must have greatly conduced
to the improvement of the public health, by preserving the bearer from the various and numerous
diseases superinduced by exposure to rain.

But perhaps we are a little harsh on our worthy ancestors; they may have possessed some species
of protection from the rain on which they prided themselves as much as we do on our Umbrellas,
and regarded the new-fangled invention (as they no doubt termed it) as something exceedingly
absurd, coxcombical, and unnecessary; while we, who are in possession of so many life-comforts
of which those of the good old times were supremely ignorant--among these we give the Umbrella
brevet rank--can afford to smile at such ebullitions as we have come across in those books
of the day we have consulted, and to which we shall presently have an opportunity of referring.

We can happily estimate the value of such a friend as the Umbrella, the silent companion of
our walks abroad, a companion incomparably superior to those slimy waterproof abominations
so urgently recommended to us, for, at the least, the Umbrella cannot be accused of injuring,
the health as they have been, as it appears, with very good reason. In fact, so long as the
climate of England remains as it is, so long will Umbrellas hold their ground in public esteem,
and we do not believe that the clerk of the weather will allow himself to be bribed into any
alteration, at least for trade considerations.

Another remarkable proof of the utility of the Umbrella may be found in the universality of
its use. It has asserted its sway from Indus to the Pole, and is to be met with in every possible
variety, from the Napoleon blue silk of the London exquisite, to the coarse red or green cotton
of the Turkish rayah. Throughout the Continent it forms the peaceful armament of the peasant,
and no more curious sight can be imagined than the wide, uncovered market-place of some quaint
old German town during a heavy shower, when every industrial covers himself or herself with
the aegis of a portable tent, and a bright array of brass ferrules and canopies of all conceivable
hues which cotton can be made to assume, without losing its one quality of "fast colour," flash
on the spectator's vision.

The advantages of the Umbrella being thus recognised, it must be confessed that it has hitherto
been treated in a most ungrateful and step-motherly fashion. We fly to the Umbrella when the
sky is overcast--it affords us shelter in the hour of need--and the service is forgotten as
soon as the necessity is relieved. We make abominable jokes upon the Umbrella; we borrow it
without compunction from any confiding friend, though with the full intention of never returning
it--in fact, it has often been a matter of surprise to us that any one ever does buy an Umbrella,
for where can the old Umbrellas go to? Although that question has often been asked concerning
the fate of pins, the fact as regards the former, looking at their size, is more curious--and
yet, for all that, we treat it with shameful neglect, as if ashamed of a crime we have committed
and anxious to conceal the evidences of our guilt.

Let us then strive to afford such reparation as in our power lies, by giving a slight description
of THE UMBRELLA AND ITS HISTORY, making up for any deficiencies of our pen by the assistance
of the artist's pencil.

CHAPTER II.

THE ANCIENT HISTORY OF THE UMBRELLA.

The Umbrella is derived from a stately family, that of the Parasol, the legitimate use of the
Umbrella, though sufficiently obvious, being almost ignored in those countries whence it derives
its being, since it was as a protection against the scorching heat of the sun that it was first
used. The Parasol, then, or Umbrella--since for all practical purposes the two are really identical--dates
from the earliest ages, some commentators on the Bible fancying they can discover it in places
where a shade protecting from the sun is mentioned. This is not unlikely, but it is certain
that the Parasol has been in use from a very early period.

Chinese history goes a very long way back, inasmuch as it places the invention of these elegant
machines many thousand years anterior to the Mosaic date of the world's creation. Their antiquity
among the Hindoos is more satisfactorily proved by the following passage from the dramatic
poem of S'akuntâla, the date of which is supposed to be the 6th century of the Christian era:--

("The cares of supporting the nation harass the sovereign, while he is cheered with a view
of the people's welfare, as a huge Umbrella, of which a man bears the staff in his own hand,
fatigues while it shades him. The sovereign, like a branching tree, bears on his head the scorching
sunbeams, while the broad shade allays the fever of those who seek shelter under him.")

The origin of the Parasol is wrapped in considerable obscurity. Some profound investigators
have supposed that large leaves tied to the branching extremities of a bough suggested the
first idea of the invention. Others assert that the idea was probably derived from the tent,
which remains in form unaltered to the present day. Dr. Morrison, however, tells us that the
tradition existing in China is, that the San, which signifies a shade for sun and rain, originated
in standards and banners waving in the air. As this is a case in which we may quote the line--"Who
shall decide when doctors disagree?"--we may with safety assume that all are in the right,
and that the Parasol owed its origin to all or any of the above-mentioned fortuitous circumstances.

In the Ninevite sculptures the Umbrella or Parasol appears frequently. Layard gives a picture
of a bas-relief representing a king in his chariot, with an attendant holding an Umbrella over
his head. It has a curtain hanging down behind, but is otherwise exactly like those in use
at the present time, the stretchers and sliding runner being plainly represented. On the later
bas-reliefs, a long piece of embroidered linen or silk falling from one side like a curtain,
appears to screen the king completely from the sun. The parasol was reserved exclusively for
the monarch, and is never represented as borne over any other person."

In Egypt again, the Parasol is found in various shapes. In some instances it is depicted as
a flabellum, a fan of palm-leaves or coloured feathers fixed on a long handle, resembling those
now carried behind the Pope in processions. Sir Gardner Wilkinson, in his work on Egypt, has,
an engraving of an Ethiopian princess travelling through Upper Egypt in a chariot; a kind of
Umbrella fastened to a stout pole rises in the centre, bearing a close affinity to what are
now termed chaise Umbrellas. To judge from Wilkinson's account, the Umbrella was generally
used throughout Egypt, partly as a mark of distinction, but more on account of its useful than
its ornamental qualities.

The same author is rather doubtful whether, in the picture given by him of a military chief
in his chariot, the frame which an attendant holds up behind the rider is a shield or a screen,
but the latter is the more probable supposition, as it has all the appearance of an Umbrella
without the usual handle. In some paintings on a temple wall, an Umbrella is held over the
figure of a god carried in procession, and altogether we may, perhaps, consider it decided,
beyond dispute, that the Umbrella in its modern shape was used in Egypt. [Footnote: To silence
captious critics, who may find fault with the designs of our artist, we may once for all remark
that an idealised conception of the figures only is given. The style of the ancient draughtsmen
was by no means so perfect that we, who live in a more civilised age, should be entirely fettered
by their conceptions, and the records of ancient life are not nearly full enough to justify
any one who may Assert that the pictures in our pages are not as accurate as those in the British
Museum. Anyhow, what they ought to have been, rather than what the ancient were, our artist
has striven to delineate.]

In Persia the Parasol is repeatedly found in the carved work of Persepolis, and Sir John Malcolm
has an article on the subject in his "History of Persia." In some sculptures--of a very Egyptian
character, by the way--the figure of a king appears attended by a slave, who carries over his
head an Umbrella, with stretchers and runner complete. In other sculptures on the rock at Takht-i-Bostan,
supposed to be not less than twelve centuries old, a deer-hunt is represented, at which a king
looks on, seated on a horse, and having an Umbrella borne over his head by an attendant.

This combination of business and comfort forcibly reminds us of a certain wet day in Carlsruhe,
where we witnessed from the window of the Hôtel d'Angleterre a stout, martial-looking national
guardsman marching to the exercising-ground with an Umbrella over his head, and a maid-servant
diligently tramping through the mud behind him, bearing his musket.

As in Assyria, so in most other Eastern countries, this use of the Parasol carried with it
a peculiar and honourable significance. The tradition relating to its origin in China has been
already alluded to, and we can trace notices of its use a very long way back indeed.

According to Dr. Morrison, Umbrellas and Parasols are referred to in books printed about A.D.
300, but their use has been traced still further back than this. A very ancient book of Chinese
ceremonies, called "Tcheou-Li, or The Rites of Tcheou," directs that upon the imperial cars
the dais should be placed. "The figure of this dais contained in the Chinese edition of Tcheou-Li,
and the particular description of it given in the explanatory commentary of Lin-hi-ye, both
identify it with an Umbrella. The latter describes the dais to be composed of 28 arcs, which
are equivalent to the whalebone ribs of the modern instrument, and the staff supporting the
covering to consist of two parts, the upper being a rod 3/18ths of a Chinese foot in circumference,
and the lower a tube 6/10ths in circumference, into which the upper half is capable of sliding."

In the second Tartar invasion of China the emperor's son was taken prisoner by the Tartar chief,
and made to carry his Umbrella when he went out hunting.

Starting from the royal significance attached to the Umbrella, came a feeling of veneration
for it, very different from the contempt with which we are now-a-days too apt to regard it.
It was represented by many ancient nations as shading their gods. In the Hindoo mythology Vishnu
is said to have paid a visit to the infernal regions with his Umbrella over his head. One would
think that in few places could an Umbrella have been less appropriate, but doubtless Vishnu
knew what he was about, and had his own reasons for carrying his Parapluie under his arm. Perhaps
like Mrs. Gamp he could not be separated from it. So much for the ancient history of our subject
in the East. We may now go on to countries about which we know a little more than of ancient
China and Assyria.

In Greece, as Becker tells us in his "Charicles," the Parasol was an indispensable adjunct
to a lady of fashion. It had also its religious signification. In the Scirophoria, the feast
of Athene Sciras, a white Parasol was borne by the priestesses of the goddess from the Acropolis
to the Phalerus. In the feasts of Dionysius (in that at Alea in Arcadia, where he was exposed
under an Umbrella, and elsewhere) the Umbrella was used, and in an old has-relief the same
god is represented as descending ad inferos with a small Umbrella in his hand, like Vishnu
before mentioned.

There was also another festival in which they appeared, though without any mystical signification.
In the Panathenæa, the daughters of the Metceci, or foreign residents, carried Parasols over
the heads of Athenian women as a mark of inferiority,

  "tas parthenons ton metoikon skiadaephorein en tais rompais
  aenankazon."
  --OElian, V. H., vi. 1.
[Footnote: "They compelled the maidens of the Metceci to act as
umbrella-bearers in the processions."]

Its use seems to have been confined to women. In Pausanias there is a description of a tomb
near Pharæ, a Greek city. On the tomb was the figure of a woman--

  "themapaina de autae prosestaeke skiadeion pherousa."
--Pausanias, lib. vii., cap. 22, Section 6.
[Footnote: "And by her stood a female slave, bearing a parasol."]

Aristophanes seems to mention it among the common articles of female use--

  "aemin men gar son eti kai nun  tantion, o kanon, oi kalathiokoi,
      to skiadeion."
--Aristophanes, Thesmoph., 821.
[Footnote: "For now our loom is safe, our weaving-beam, our baskets
and umbrella."]

It occurs frequently on vases, and is in shape like that now used. It could be put up and down.

  "ta d' ota g'an son, nae AL', exepetannuto  osper skiadeion, kai
      palin xunaegeto."
--Arist. Eq., 1347.
[Footnote: "But your ears, by Jove, are stretched out like a
parasol, and now again shut up."]

Which the Scholiast explains, ekteinetai de kai systelletai pros ton katepeigonta kairon. [Footnote:
"Are opened and shut as need requires."] For a man to carry one was considered a mark of effeminacy,
as appears from the following fragment of Anacreon:--

  "skiadiskaen elephantinaen phorei gunaixin autos."
  Athenaeus, lib. xii., cap. 46,  Section 534.
[Footnote: "He carries an ivory parasol, as women do."]

Plutarch makes Aristides speak of Xerxes as sitting under a canopy or Umbrella looking at the
sea-fight--

  "kathaeenos hupd skiadi chrysae."
  Plut. Therm., c. 16 (p. 120),
[Footnote: "Sitting under a golden canopy."]

and of Cleopatra in like manner--

  "upo skiadi chrysopasto."
  Plut. Anton., c. 26 (p. 927).
[Footnote: "Under a gold-wrought canopy."]

From Greece it is probable that the use of the Parasol passed to Rome, where it seems to have
been commonly used by women, while it was the custom even for effeminate men to defend themselves
from the heat by means of the Umbraculum, formed of skin or leather, and capable of being lowered
at will. We find frequent reference to the Umbrella in the Roman Classics, and it appears that
it was, not unlikely, a post of honour among maid-servants to bear it over their mistresses.
Allusions to it are tolerably frequent in the poets. Virgil's "Munimen ad imbres" [Footnote:
"A shelter for the shower."] probably has nothing to do with Umbrellas, but more definite mention
of them is not wanting. Ovid speaks of Hercules carrying the Parasol of Omphale:--

  "Aurea pellebant rapidos umbracula soles,
  Quæ tamen Herculeæ sustinuere manus."
--Ov. Fast., lib. ii., 1. 31 I.
[Footnote: "A golden umbrella warded off the keen sun, which even
the hands of Hercules have borne."]

Martial speaks of a servant carrying the Parasol:--

  "Umbellam lusca, Lygde feras Dominæ."
--Mart., lib. xi., ch. 73.
[Footnote: "Mayst thou, Lygde, be parasol-carrier for a publind
mistress."]

Juvenal mentions an Umbrella as a present:--

  "En cui tu viridem umbellam cui succina mittas"
--Juv., ix., 50.
[Footnote: "See to whom it is sent a green umbrella and amber
ornaments"]

Ovid advises a lover to make himself agreeable by holding his mistress's Parasol:--

  "Ipse tene distenta suis umbracula virgis"
Ov. Ars. Am., ii., 209.
[Footnote: "Yourself hold up the umbrella spread out by its rods"]

This shows that the Umbrella was of much the same construction as ours.

A very common use for it was in the theatre, whenever, from wind or other cause, the velarium
or huge awning stretched over the building (always open to the air) could not be put up:--

  "Accipe quæ nimios vincant umbracula soles,
   Sit licet, et ventus, te tua vela tegont."
--Mart., lib. xiv., Ep. 28.
[Footnote: "Take this, which may shield you from the sun's excessive
rays. So may your own sail shield you, even should the breeze blow."]

By tua vela is to be understood "your own Umbrella." And elsewhere the same writer gives the
advice:--

  "Ingrediare viam coelo licet usque sereno
   Ad subitas nunquam scortea desit aquas."
--Man'., lib. xiv. Ep. 130.
[Footnote: "Though with a bright sky you begin your journey, let
this cloak ever be at hand in case of unexpected showers."]

It will be noticed from the above extracts that the Umbrella does not appear to have been used
among the Romans as a defence from rain; and this is curious enough, for we know that the theatres
were protected by the velarium or awning, which was drawn across the arena whenever a sudden
shower came on; strange that this self-evident application of the Umbrella should not have
occurred to a nation generally so ingenious in the invention of every possible luxury. Possibly
the expense bestowed in the decoration of the umbraculum was a reason for its not being applied
to what we cannot but regard as its legitimate use.

After the founding of Constantinople, the custom of great people carrying an Umbrella seems
to have arisen, but in Rome it appears only to have been used as a luxury, never as a mark
of distinction, Pliny speaks of Umbrellas made of palm-leaves, but from other sources we may
gather that the Romans--at all events in the days of the empire--lavished as much splendour
on their Umbrella as on all the articles of their dress. Ovid (as above quoted) speaks of an
Umbrella inwrought with gold, and Claudian in the same way has:--

  "Neu defensura calorem
   Aurea submoveant rapidos umbracula soles."
--Claud., lib. viii., De. iv. cons. Honorii, 1. 340.
[Footnote: "Nor. to protect you from the heat, let the golden
umbrella ward off the keen sun's rays."]

From this we may conclude that the carrying an Umbrella was in some sort a mark of effeminacy.
In another place carrying the Umbrella is alluded to as one of the duties of a slave:--

  "Jam non umbracula tollunt
   Virginibus," etc.
[Footnote: "Now they do not carry girls' parasols."]

Gorius says that the Umbrella came to Rome from the Etruscans, and certainly it appears not
infrequently on Etruscan vases, as also on later gems. One gem, figured by Pacudius, shows
an Umbrella with a bent handle, sloping backwards. Strabo describes a sort of screen or Umbrella
worn by Spanish women, but this is not like a modern Umbrella.

Very many curious facts are connected with the use of the Umbrella throughout the East, where
it was nearly everywhere one of the insignia of royalty, or at least of high rank.

M. de la Loubère, who was Envoy Extraordinary from the French King to the King of Siam in 1687
and 1688, wrote an account entitled a "New Historical Relation of the Kingdom of Siam," which
was translated in 1693 into English. According to his account the use of the Umbrella was granted
to some only of the subjects by the king. An Umbrella with several circles, as if two or three
umbrellas were fastened on the same stick, was permitted to the king alone, the nobles carried
a single Umbrella with painted cloths hanging from it. The Talapoins (who seem to have been
a sort of Siamese monks) had Umbrellas made of a palm-leaf cut and folded, so that the stem
formed a handle. The same writer describes the audience-chamber of the King of Siam. In his
quaint old French, he says:--"Pour tout meuble il n'y a que trois para-sol, un devant la fenêtre,
a neuf ronds, & deux à sept ronds aux deux côtéz de la fenêtre. Le para-sol est en ce Pais-la,
ce que le Dais est en celui-ci."

Tavernier, in his "Voyage to the East," says that on each side of the Mogul's throne were two
Umbrellas, and also describes the hall of the King of Ava as decorated with an Umbrella. The
Mahratta princes, who reigned at Poonah and Sattara, had the title of Ch'hatra-pati, "Lord
of the Umbrella." Ch'hatra or cháta has been suggested as the derivation of satrapaes (exatrapaes
in Theopompus), and it seems a probable derivation enough. The cháta of the Indian and Burmese
princes is large and heavy, and requires a special attendant, who has a regular position in
the royal household. In Ava it seems to have been part of the king's title, that he was "King
of the white elephant, and Lord of the twenty-four Umbrellas." Persons of rank in the Mahratta
court, who were not permitted the right of carrying an Umbrella, used a screen, a flat vertical
disc called AA'-ab-gir, carried by an attendant. Even now the Umbrella has not lost its emblematic
meaning. In 1855 the King of Burmah directed a letter to the Marquis of Dalhousie in which
he styles himself "His great, glorious, and most excellent Majesty, who reigns over the kingdoms
of Thunaparanta, Tampadipa, and all the great Umbrella-wearing chiefs of the Eastern countries,"
&c.

Thus we see that the same signification which was attached to the Umbrella by the ancient people
of Nineveh, still remains connected with it even in our own time.

In the Great Exhibition of 1851 was the splendid Umbrella belonging to his Highness the Maharajah
of Najpoor. The ribs and stretchers, sixteen in number, divided the Umbrella into as many segments,
covered with silk, exquisitely embroidered with gold and silver ornaments. The upper part of
the design was complete in each department, but at the lower, it was formed into a graceful
running border, to which a fringe was attached. The handle was hollow and formed of thick silver
plates.

In Bengal it appears that no distinction is attached to the Umbrella, since the poorer classes
there use a cháta or small Umbrella, made of leaves of the Licerata peltata. These are of conical
form and have numerous ribs and stretchers. The higher class in Assam use a similar Umbrella.

