Thus the enumeration of manuscript revisions, translations, imitations, and scholastic editions
of Horace may also seem at first sight the narrative of cold detail. There may be readers who,
remembering the scant stream of the cultivated few who tided the poet through the centuries
of darkness, and the comparative rareness of cultivated men at all times, will be slow to be
convinced of any real impress of Horace upon the life of men. They especially who reflect that
during all the long sweep of time the majority of those who have known him, and even of those
who have been stirred to enthusiasm by him, have known him through the compulsion of the school,
and who reflect farther on the artificialities, the insincerities, the pettinesses, the abuses,
and the hatreds of the class-room, the joy with which at the end the text-book is dropped or
bidden an even more violent farewell, and the apparently total oblivion that follows, will
be inclined to view as exaggeration the most moderate estimate of our debt to him.

Yet skepticism would be without warrant. The presence of any subject in an educational scheme
represents the sincere, and often the fervent, conviction that it is worthy of the place. In
the case of literary subjects, the nearer the approach to pure letters, the less demonstrable
the connection between instruction and the winning of livelihood, the more intense the conviction.
The immortality of literature and the arts, which surely has been demonstrated by time, the
respect in which they are held by a world so intent on mere living that of its own motion it
would never heed, is the work of the passionate few whose enthusiasms and protestations never
allow the common crowd completely to forget, and keep forever alive in it the uneasy sense
of imperfection. That Horace was preserved for hundreds of years by monastery and school, that
the fact of acquaintance with him is due to his place in modern systems of education, are not
mere statements empty of life. They represent the noble enthusiasms of enlightened men. The
history of human progress has been the history of enthusiasms. Without enthusiasms, the fabric
of civilization would collapse in a day into the chaos of barbarism.

To give greater completeness and reality to our account of Horace's place among men, ancient
and modern, we must in some way add to the narrative of formal fact the demonstration of his
influence in actual operation. In the case of periods obscure and remote, this is hardly possible.
In the case of modern times it is not so difficult. For the recent centuries, as proof of the
peculiar power of Horace, we have the abundant testimony of literature and biography.

Let us call this influence the Dynamic Power of Horace. Dynamic power is the power that explodes
men, so to speak, into physical or spiritual action, that operates by inspiration, expansion,
fertilization, vitalization, and results in the living of a fuller life. If we can be shown
concrete instances of Horace enriching the lives of men by increasing their love and mastery
of art or multiplying their means of happiness, we shall not only appreciate better the poet's
meaning for the present day, but be better able to imagine his effect upon men in the remoter
ages whose life is less open to scrutiny.

Our purpose will best be accomplished by demonstrating the very specific and pronounced effect
of Horace, first, upon the formation of the literary ideal; second, upon the actual creation
of literature; and, third, upon living itself.

1. HORACE AND THE LITERARY IDEAL

There is no better example of the direct effect of Horace than the part played in the discipline
of letters by the Ars Poetica. This work is a literary causerie inspired in part by the reading
of Alexandrian criticism, but in larger part by experience. In it the author's uppermost themes,
as in characteristic manner he allows himself to be led on from one thought to another, are
unity, consistency, propriety, truthfulness, sanity, and carefulness. Such has been its power
by reason of inner substance and outward circumstance that it has been at times exalted into
a court of appeal hardly less authoritative than Aristotle himself, from whom in large part
it ultimately derives.

We have seen how the Pleiad, with Du Bellay and Ronsard leading, seized upon the classics as
a means of elevating the literature of France, and how the treatise of Du Bellay which was
put forth as their manifesto was full of matter from the Ars Poetica, which two years previously
has served Sibilet also, whose work Du Bellay attacked. A century later, Boileau's L'Art Poétique
testifies again to the inspiration of Horace, who is made the means of riveting still more
firmly upon French drama, for good or ill, the strict rules that have always governed it; and
by the time of Boileau's death the program of the Pleiad is revived a second time by Jean Baptiste
Rousseau. Opitz and Gottsched in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries are for Germany what
Du Bellay and Boileau were for France in the sixteenth and seventeenth. Literary Spain of the
latter fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries was under the same influence. The Spanish peninsula,
according to Menéndez y Pelayo, has produced no fewer than forty-seven translations of the
Ars Poetica. Even in England, always less tractable in the matter of rules than the Latin countries,
Ben Jonson and his friends are in some sort another Pleiad, and the treatise possesses immense
authority throughout the centuries. We turn the pages of Cowl's The Theory of Poetry in England,
a book of critical extracts illustrating the development of poetry "in doctrines and ideas
from the sixteenth century to the nineteenth century," and note Ben Jonson and Wordsworth referring
to or quoting Horace in the section on Poetic Creation; Dryden and Temple appealing to him
and Aristotle on the Rules; Hurd quoting him on Nature and the Stage; Roger Ascham, Ben Jonson,
and Dryden citing him as an example on Imitation; Dryden and Chapman calling him master and
law-giver on Translation; Samuel Johnson referring to him on the same subject; and Ben Jonson
and Dryden using him on Functions and Principles of Criticism. "Horace," writes Jonson, "an
author of much civility, ... an excellent and true judge upon cause and reason, not because
he thought so, but because he knew so out of use and experience." Pope, in the Essay on Criticism,
describes with peculiar felicity both Horace's critical manner and the character of the authority,
persuasive rather than tyrannical, which he exercises over Englishmen:

  "Horace still charms with graceful negligence,
  And without method talks us into sense;
  Will, like a friend, familiarly convey
  The truest notions in the easiest way."

But the dynamic power of the Ars Poetica will be still better appreciated if we assemble some
of its familiar principles. Who has not heard of and wondered at the hold the "Rules" have
had upon modern drama, especially in France,--the rule of five acts, no more and no less; the
rule of three actors only, liberalized into the rule of economy; the rule of the unities in
time, place, and action; the rule against the mingling of the tragic and comic "kinds"; the
rule against the artificial dénouement? Who has not heard of French playwrights composing "with
one eye on the clock" for fear of violating the unity of time, or of their delight in the writing
of drama as in "a difficult game well played?" If Alexandrian criticism, and, back of it, Aristotle,
were ultimately responsible for the rules, Horace was their disseminator in later times, and
was looked up to as final authority. Who has not heard and read repeatedly the now common-place
injunctions to be appropriate and consistent in character-drawing; to avoid, on the one hand,
clearness at the cost of diffuseness, and, on the other, brevity at the cost of obscurity;
to choose subject-matter suited to one's powers; to respect the authority of the masterpiece
and to con by night and by day the great Greek exemplars; to feel the emotion one wishes to
rouse; to stamp the universal with the mark of individual genius; to be straightforward and
rapid and omit the unessential; to be truthful to life; to keep the improbable and the horrible
behind the scenes; to be appropriate in meter and diction; to keep clear of the fallacy of
poetic madness; to look for the real sources of successful writing in sanity, depth of knowledge,
and experience with men; to remember the mutual indispensability of genius and cultivation;
to combine the pleasant and the useful; to deny one's self the indulgence of mediocrity; never
to compose unless under inspiration; to give heed to solid critical counsel; to lock up one's
manuscript for nine years before giving it to the world; to destroy what does not measure up
to the ideal; to take ever-lasting pains; to beware of the compliments of good-natured friends?
Not less familiar are the apt figurative illustrations of the woman beautiful above and an
ugly fish below, the purple patch, the painter who would forever put in his cypress tree, the
amphora that came out a pitcher, the dolphin in the wood and the boar in the waters, the sesquipedalian
word, the mountains in travail and the birth of the ridiculous mouse, the plunge in medias
res, the praiser of the good old times, the exclusion of sane poets from Helicon, the counsellor
who himself can write nothing, but will serve as whetstone for genius, the nodding of Homer.

Nor did the effects of this diffusion of Horatian precept consist merely in restraint upon
the youthful and the impulsive, or confine themselves to the drama, with which the Ars Poetica
was mainly concerned. The persuasive and authoritative counsels of the Roman poet have entered,
so to speak, into the circulatory system of literary effort and become part of the life-blood
of modern enlightenment. Their great effect has been formative: the cultivation of character
in literature.

2. HORACE AND LITERARY CREATION

i. THE TRANSLATOR'S IDEAL

Besides the invisible, and the greatest, effect of Horace in the moulding of character in literature,
is the visible effect in literary creation. His inspiration wrought by performance as well
as by precept. The numerous essays in verse and prose on the art of letters which have been
prompted by the Ars Poetica are themselves examples of this effect. They are not alone, however,
though perhaps the most apparent. The purer literature of the lyric also inspired to creation,
with results that are far more charming, if less substantial.

In the case of the lyric inspired by the Odes, as well as in the case of the critical essay
inspired by the Ars Poetica, it is not always easy to distinguish adaptation or imitation from
actual creation. Bernardo Tasso's Ode, for example, and Giovanni Prati's Song of Hygieia, while
really independent poems, are so charged with Horatian matter and spirit that one hesitates
to call them original. The same is true of the many inspirations traceable to the famous Beatus
Ille Epode, which, with such Odes as The Bandusian Spring, Pyrrha, Phidyle, and Chloe, have
captured the fancy of modern poets. Pope's Solitude, on the other hand, while surely an inspiration
of the second Epode, shows hardly a mark affording proof of the fact.

To some of the most manifest imitations and adaptations, it is impossible to deny originality.
The Fifth Book of Horace, by Kipling and Graves, is an example. Thackeray's delightful Ad Ministram
is another example which must be classed as adaptation, yet such is its spontaneity that not
to see in it an inspiration would be stupid and unjust:

AD MINISTRAM

  Dear Lucy, you know what my wish is--
    I hate all your Frenchified fuss:
  Your silly entrées and made dishes
    Were never intended for us.
  No footman in lace and in ruffles
    Need dangle behind my arm-chair;
  And never mind seeking for truffles
    Although they be ever so rare.

In similar strain of exquisite humor are the adaptations of the Whichers, American examples
of spirit and skill not second to that of Thackeray:

MY SABINE FARM

LAUDABUNT ALII

  Some people talk about "Noo Yo'k";
    Of Cleveland many ne'er have done;
  They sing galore of Baltimore,
    Chicago, Pittsburgh, Washington.

  Others unasked their wit have tasked
    To sound unending praise of Boston--
  Of bean-vines found for miles around
    And crooked streets that I get lost on.

  Give me no jar of truck or car,
    No city smoke and noise of mills;
  Rather the slow Connecticut's flow
    And sunny orchards on the hills.

  There like the haze of summer days
    Before the wind flee care and sorrow.
  In sure content each day is spent,
    Unheeding what may come to-morrow.

VITAS HINNULEO

DONE BY MR. WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

  I met a little Roman maid;
    She was just sixteen (she said),
  And O! but she was sore afraid,
    And hung her modest head.

  A little fawn, you would have vowed,
    That sought her mother's side,
  And wandered lonely as a cloud
    Upon the mountain wide.

  Whene'er the little lizards stirred
    She started in her fear;
  In every rustling bush she heard
    Some awful monster near.

  "I'm not a lion; fear not so;
    Seek not your timid dam."--
  But Chloe was afraid, and O!
    She knows not what I am:

    A creature quite too bright and good
    To be so much misunderstood.

Again, in Austin Dobson's exquisite Triolet, whether the inspiration of the poem itself is
in Horace, or the inspiration, so far as Horace is concerned, lies in the choice of title after
the verses were written, we must in either case confess a debt of great delight to the author
of the Ars Poetica:

URCEUS EXIT

  I intended an Ode,
    And it turned to a Sonnet.
  It began à la mode,
  I intended an Ode;
  But Rose crossed the road
  In her latest new bonnet;
    I intended an Ode,
  And it turned to a Sonnet.

The same observation applies equally to the same author's Iocosa Lyra:

IOCOSA LYRA

  In our hearts is the great one of Avon
                                Engraven,
  And we climb the cold summits once built on
                                By Milton;

  But at times not the air that is rarest
                                Is fairest,
  And we long in the valley to follow
                                Apollo.

  Then we drop from the heights atmospheric
                                To Herrick,
  Or we pour the Greek honey, grown blander,
                                Of Landor,

  Or our cosiest nook in the shade is
                                Where Praed is,
  Or we toss the light bells of the mocker
                                With Locker.

  O the song where not one of the Graces
                                Tightlaces,--
  Where we woo the sweet Muses not starchly,
                                But archly,--

  Where the verse, like a piper a-Maying
                                Comes playing,--
  And the rhyme is as gay as a dancer
                                In answer,--

  It will last till men weary of pleasure
                                In measure!
  It will last till men weary of laughter ...
                                And after!

Whatever we may say of the indebtedness of things like these to the letter of the ancient poet,
we must acknowledge them all alike as examples of the dynamic power of Horace.

ii. CREATION

But there are other examples whose character as literary creation is still farther beyond question.
Such a one, to mention one brilliant specimen in prose, is the letter of Andrew Lang to Horace.
In verse, Austin Dobson again affords one of the happiest examples:

TO Q.H.F.

  "Horatius Flaccus, B.C. 8,"
  There's not a doubt about the date,--
      You're dead and buried:
  As you observed, the seasons roll;
  And 'cross the Styx full many a soul
      Has Charon ferried,
  Since, mourned of men and Muses nine,
  They laid you on the Esquiline.

  And that was centuries ago!
  You'd think we'd learned enough, I know,
      To help refine us,
  Since last you trod the Sacred Street,
  And tacked from mortal fear to meet
      The bore Crispinus;
  Or, by your cold Digentia, set
  The web of winter birding-net.

  Ours is so far-advanced an age!
  Sensation tales, a classic stage,
      Commodious villas!
  We boast high art, an Albert Hall,
  Australian meats, and men who call
      Their sires gorillas!
  We have a thousand things, you see,
  Not dreamt in your philosophy.

  And yet, how strange!

  The great Gargilius, then, behold!

  And look, dyspeptic, brave, and kind,
  Comes dear Maecenas, half behind
      Terentia's skirting;
  Here's Pyrrha, "golden-haired" at will;
  Prig Damasippus, preaching still;
      Asterie flirting,--
  Radiant, of course. We'll make her black,--
  Ask her when Gyges' ship comes back.

  So with the rest. Who will may trace
  Behind the new each elder face
      Defined as clearly;
  Science proceeds, and man stands still;
  Our "world" today's as good or ill,--
      As cultured (nearly),
  As yours was, Horace! You alone,
  Unmatched, unmet, we have not known.

But it is not only to comparatively independent creation that we must look. The dynamic power
of Horace is to be found at work even in the translation of the poet. The fact that he has
had more translators than any other poet, ancient or modern, is itself an evidence of inspirational
quality, but a greater proof lies in the variety and character of his translators and the quality
of their achievement. A list of those who have felt in this way the stirrings of the Horatian
spirit would include the names not only of many great men of letters, but of many great men
of affairs, whose successes are to be counted among examples of genuine inspiration.

Theodore Martin's rendering of I. 21, To a Jar of Wine, already quoted in part, is an example.
Another brilliant success is Sir Stephen E. De Vere's I. 31, Prayer to Apollo, quoted in connection
with the poet's religious attitude. No less felicitous are Conington's spirited twelve lines,
reproducing III. 26, Vixi puellis:

VIXI PUELLIS NUPER IDONEUS

  For ladies' love I late was fit,
    And good success my warfare blest;
  But now my arms, my lyre I quit,
    And hang them up to rust or rest.
  Here, where arising from the sea
    Stands Venus, lay the load at last,
  Links, crowbars, and artillery,
    Threatening all doors that dared be fast.
  O Goddess! Cyprus owns thy sway,
    And Memphis, far from Thracian snow:
  Raise high thy lash, and deal me, pray,
    That haughty Chloe just one blow!

To translate in this manner is beyond all doubt to deserve the name of poet.

We may go still farther and claim for Horace that he has been a dynamic power in the art of
translation, not only as it concerned his own poems, but in its concern of translation as a
universal art. No other poet presents such difficulties; no other poet has left behind him
so long a train of disappointed aspirants. "Horace remains forever the type of the untranslatable,"
says Frederic Harrison. Milton attempts the Pyrrha ode in unrhymed meter, and the light and
bantering spirit of Horace disappears. Milton is correct, polished, restrained, and pure, but
heavy and cold. An exquisite jeu d'esprit has been crushed to death:

  What slender youth, bedew'd with liquid odours,
  Courts thee on roses in some pleasant cave,
      Pyrrha? For whom bind'st thou
      In wreaths thy golden hair,
  Plain in thy neatness? O how oft shall he
  On faith and changèd gods complain, and seas
      Rough with black winds and storms
      Unwonted shall admire!
  Who now enjoys thee credulous, all gold,
  Who, always vacant, always amiable
      Hopes thee, of flattering gales
      Unmindful! Hapless they
  To whom thou untried seem'st fair! Me in my vowed
  Picture, the sacred wall declares to have hung
      My dank and dropping weeds
      To the stern God of Sea.

But let the attempt be made to avoid the ponderous movement and excessive sobriety of Milton,
and to communicate the Horatian airiness, and there is a loss in conciseness and reserve:

  What scented youth now pays you court,
    Pyrrha, in shady rose-strewn spot
  Dallying in love's sweet sport?
    For whom that innocent-seeming knot
  In which your golden strands you dress
  With all the art of artlessness?

  Deluded lad! How oft he'll weep
    O'er changèd gods! How oft, when dark
  The billows roughen on the deep,
    Storm-tossed he'll see his wretched bark!
  Unused to Cupid's quick mutations,
  In store for him what tribulations!

  But now his joy is all in you;
    He thinks your heart is purest gold;
  Expects you'll always be love-true,
    And never, never, will grow cold.
  Poor mariner on summer seas,
  Untaught to fear the treacherous breeze!

  Ah, wretched whom your Siren call
    Deludes and brings to watery woes!
  For me--yon plaque on Neptune's wall
    Shows I've endured the seaman's throes.
  My drenchèd garments hang there, too:
  Henceforth I shun the enticing blue.

It is not improbable that the struggle of the centuries with the difficulties of rendering
Horace has been a chief influence in the development of our present exacting ideal of translation;
so exacting indeed that it has defeated its purpose. By emphasis upon the impossibility of
rendering accurately the content of poetry in the form of poetry, scholastic discussion of
the theory of translation has led first to despair, and next from despair to the scientific
and unaesthetic principle of rendering into exact prose all forms of literature alike. The
twentieth century has thus opened again and settled in opposite manner the old dispute of the
French D'Alembert and the Italian Salvini in the seventeen-hundreds, which was resolved by
actual results in favor of D'Alembert and fidelity to spirit as opposed to Salvini and fidelity
to letter.

In what we have said thus far of the dynamic power of Horace in literary creation, we have
dealt with visible results. We should not be misled, however, by the satisfaction of seeing
plainly in imitation, adaptation, translation, quotation, or real creation, the mark of Horatian
influence. The discipline of the literary ideal in the individual, and the moulding of character
in literature as an organism, are effects less clearly visible, but, after all, of greater
value. If the bread and meat of human sustenance should appear in the body as recognizable
bread and meat, it would hardly be a sign of health. Its value is in the strength conferred
by assimilation. With all respect and gratitude for creation manifestly due to Horace, we must
also realize that this is but a superficial result as compared with the chastening restraint
of expression and the health and vigor of content that have been encouraged by allegiance to
him, but are known by no special marks. It is no bad sign when we turn the pages of the Oxford
Selections of Verse in the various modern languages and find but few examples of the visible
sort of Horatian influence. To detect the more invisible sort requires the keen eye and the
sensitive spirit of the poet-scholar, but the reader not so specially qualified may have faith
that it exists. With Goethe writing of Horace as a "great, glowing, noble poet, full of heart,
who with the power of his song sweeps us along, lifts us, and inspires us," with Menéndez y
Pelayo in Spain defining the Horatian lyric, whether Christian or pagan, by "sobriety of thought,
rhythmic lightness, the absence of artificial adornment, unlimited care in execution, and brevity,"
and holding this ideal aloft as the influence needed by the modern lyric, and with no countries
or periods without leaders in poetry and criticism uttering similar sentiments and exhortations,
it would be difficult not to believe in a substantial Horatian effect on literary culture,
however slight the external marks.

3. HORACE IN THE LIVING OF MEN

Let us take leave of these illustrations of the dynamic power of Horace in letters, and consider
in conclusion his power as shown directly in the living of men.

First of all, we may include in the dynamic working of the poet his stirring of the heart by
pure delight. If this is not the highest and the ultimate effect of poetry, it is after all
the first and the essential effect. Without the giving of pleasure, no art becomes really the
possession of men and the instrument of good. As a matter of fact, many of the most frequently
and best translated Odes are devoid both of moral intent, and, in the ordinary sense, of moral
effect. To Pyrrha, Soracte Covered with Snow, Carpe Diem, To Glycera, Integer Vitae, To Chloe,
Horace and Lydia, The Bandusian Spring, Faunus, To an Old Wine-Jar, The End of Love, and Beatus
Ille are merely jeux-d'esprit of the sort that for the moment lighten and clear the spirit.
The same may be said of The Bore and the Journey to Brundisium among the Satires, and of many
of the Epistles.

But these trifles light as air are nevertheless of the sort for which mankind is eternally
grateful, because men are convinced, without process of reason, that by them the fibre of life
is rested and refined and strengthened. We may call this familiar effect by the less familiar
name of re-creative. What lover of Horace has not felt his inmost being cleansed and refreshed
by the simple and exquisite art of The Bandusian Spring, whose cameo of sixty-eight Latin words
in four stanzas is an unapproachable model of vividness, elegance, purity, and restraint:

  O crystal-bright Bandusian Spring,
    Worthy thou of the mellow wine
  And flowers I give to thy pure depths:
    A kid the morrow shall be thine.

  The day of lustful strife draws on,
    The starting horn begins to gleam;
  In vain! His red blood soon shall tinge
    The waters of thy clear, cold stream.

  The dog-star's fiercely blazing hour
    Ne'er with its heat doth change thy pool;
  To wandering flock and ploughworn steer
    Thou givest waters fresh and cool.

  Thee, too, 'mong storied founts I'll place,
    Singing the oak that slants the steep,
  Above the hollowed home of rock
    From which thy prattling streamlets leap.

Or who does not live more abundant life at reading the Chloe Ode, with its breath of the mountain
air and its sense of the brooding forest solitude, and its exquisite suggestion of timid and
charming girlhood?

  "You shun me, Chloe, wild and shy
    As some stray fawn that seeks its mother
  Through trackless woods.

But there are those who demand of poetry a usefulness more easily measurable than that of recreation.
In their opinion, it is improvement rather than pleasure which is the end of art, or at least
improvement as well as pleasure. In this, indeed, the poet himself is inclined to agree: "He
who mingles the useful with the pleasant by delighting and likewise improving the reader, will
get every vote."

Let us look for these more concrete results, and see how Horace the person still lives in the
character of men, as well as Horace the poet in the character of literature.

