"There was Aby Sparks to Penobscot--you know, ladies and gentlemen, Aby Sparks, the son of
Enoch Sparks, who married Peggy Heath. Good family the Sparkses--very good family, as you know,
ladies and gentlemen. Respectable people in a respectable way of business, the general line--drugs
and cutlery, and hats patent waterproof, bird-seed and jewellery, tea and coffee pots, and
shoes of the newest fashion. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want a good tea or coffee pot? Partiklar
jam, they are, I reckon. Well, Aby Sparks said to me, 'Jared Bundle,' says he, 'leave me a
dozen boxes or phials, whichever you like, of your Palmyra sarve. Wonderful stuff that!' says
he. 'What!' says I, 'leave you some of my Palmyra sarve! You're jist right to say it ain't
common apothecaries' stuff; that it certainly ain't. But what would the ladies and gentlemen
on the lower Mississippi say, if I left any of it here? It's all meant for them,' says I; 'they're
my best customers.'"

"Soft sawder! Jared Bundle," grunted a Kentuckian.

"Cart grease and cobbler's wax," said a man of Illinois.

"He's from the north," laughed a third, "where there's more wooden clocks than cows and calves."

"Where the grasshoppers break their legs in jumpin' from one potato heap to another," interposed
a fourth.

"Where the robins starve in harvest time, and the mockin'-bird is too hungry to mock," cried
a fifth.

"Nothin' in the world like Jared Bundle's 'intment," continued the imperturbable Yankee. "Finest
thing possible for corns. Ain't genteel to talk of such things, ladies and gentlemen; but if
any of you have got corns, rub 'em just two or three times with the Palmyra sarve, and they'll
disappear like snow in sunshine. Worth any money against tan and freckles. You, miss," cried
he to Louise, "you ain't got any freckles, but you may very likely git 'em. A plaster on each
cheek afore you go to bed--git up in the mornin', not a freckle left--all lilies and roses!"

"Hold your impudent tongue!" said I, "or I will plaster you."

"We're in a free country," was the answer; "free to sell and free to buy. Gentlemen," continued
Mr Bundle, "famous stuff for razor-strops. Rub a little on, draw the razor a couple of times
over it--shave. Razor runs over the face like a steam-carriage along a railroad, you don't
know how; beard disappears like grass before the sickle, or a regiment of Britishers before
Yankee rifles. Great vartue in the sarve--uncommon vartue! Ma'am!" cried he to a lady who,
like ourselves, was looking on from a short distance at this farcical scene, "Ma'am!"

I looked round at the lady. "Bless my soul! Mrs Dobleton and the Misses Dobleton from Concordia,
my neighbours on the Mississippi. Delighted to see you, Mrs Dobleton; allow me the honour of
introducing my wife to you."

Our greetings and compliments were drowned by the piercing voice of the indefatigable Yankee.

"Ma'am!" cried he, with a box of ointment in each hand, "Ma'am! the finest cure in the world
for toothach. If teeth are good, it keeps 'em so; if bad, it makes 'em sound and white as ivory.
A small bit on the point of a knife between the teeth and the gum--acts like a charm. Young
ladies! a capital remedy for narrow chests."

The skinny Miss Dobletons turned green with vexation.

"Incomparable remedy!" continued Jared; "rub it well in on the part affected, and in a short
time the most contracted chest becomes as wide as that of Mrs Broadbosom to Charleston. Fine
thing for lockjaw, ma'am!" cried he to a Mrs Bodwell who was standing by, and amongst whose
good qualities that of silence was not considered to hold a conspicuous place; "a famous cure
for lockjaw, from whatever cause it may come on. There was Miss Trowlop--she had a very handsum'
mouth and a considerable gift of the gab--was goin' to be married to Mr Shaver, run a hickory
splinter through her prunella shoe into her foot--jaw locked as fast as old Ebenezer Gripeall's
iron safe. If she'd a-had my Palmyra sarve she'd be still alive, Mrs Shaver, now; 'stead of
that, the land-crabs have eaten her. Another example, ladies: Sally Brags, Miss Sally Brags
to Portsmouth. You know Portsmouth, Providence, where the pretty gals grow; some folk do say
they're prettier to Baltimore--won't say they ain't--matter of taste, pure matter of taste;
but Miss Sally Brags, ladies, had the lockjaw--couldn't say a word; took a box of my Palmyra
sarve--ladies, two dollars a box by retail--her tongue now goes clap-clap-clap like any steam-mill.
Famous cure for lockjaw!"

During this unceasing flow of words, the Yankee had found the time to drive a capital trade;
his merchandise of all kinds was rapidly disappearing, and the more the backwoodsmen laughed,
the faster flowed the dollars into the pedlar's pouch. It was most diverting to observe the
looks of the purchasers of the Palmyra ointment, as they first smelled at it and then shook
their heads, as if in doubt whether they were not duped.

"Wonderful stuff!" cried the Yankee with imperturbable gravity, and as if to reassure them.
"And capital coffee-pots," continued he to a leather-jerkined Missouri man, who had taken up
one of the latter and was examining it. "I'll warrant 'em of the best description, and no mistake.
Wonderful stuff this Palmyra sarve, came direct from Moscow, where the Archbishop of Abyssinia
had brought it, but, havin' got into debt, he was obliged to sell off; and from Moscow, which,
as you all know, is a great seaport, it passed into the hands of the Grand Duke of Teheran
or Tombuctoo, who lives somewhere about the Cape of Good Hope. From there it came to Boston
in the brig Sarah, Captain Larks. I was one of the first to go on board, and as soon as I smelled
to it, I knew directly what time o' day it was--where the wind blew from, as I may say. Ladies,
here you have the means of preservin' your health and your beauty for the longest day you live,
and all for two dollars--only two dollars a box. In short, ladies and gentlemen," concluded
the persevering fellow sententiously, "you have my warranty that this sarve heals all curable
diseases; and if it be true, as the famous Doctor Flathead says, that there be only two sorts
of maladies--them of which people die, and them of which they get well--you must see how important
it is to have a box of the Palmyra 'intment. Best of all sarves, ladies! two dollars a box, ladies!

"Ladies and gentlemen," resumed Mr Bundle after a brief pause, "d'ye want any other articles--silks,
linen, calicoes, fine spices, nutmegs? None of your walnut-wood nutmegs, but ginuine Boston
goods, out of the most respectable stores. Ah! ladies and gentlemen, Jared Bundle's tea and
coffee pots--let me recommend 'em to you. The metal is of a particular sort, corrects the oily
matter contained in the tea, which the doctors say is no better than so much p'ison. Should
be sorry for you to suppose I was instigated by love of gain--filthy lucre, ladies; but think
of your vallyable health--your precious health--and buy my teapots; two dollars twenty-five
cents a-piece. Yes, ma'am," continued he, turning to one of the negresses who were crawling,
and grinning, and gaping around his wares, "beautiful Lyons ribands, and Bengal neck-handkerchiefs
direct from Calcutta; lovely things them handkerchiefs, and the ribands too, partic'lerly the
broad ones--quarter of a dollar a yard. Four yards did you say, ma'am? Better go the entire
figur'--take eight, and you'll have twice as much. Now, ladies and gentlemen, to return to
the teapots"----

"The teapots!" cried several voices a short distance off. "Hurra! Jared Bundle's teapots! Look
here at the Yankee teapots!"

At the same moment the steward of the steamer made his appearance upon the field of Mr Bundle's
operations, escorted by half a dozen of the backwoodsmen, and stepping into the torchlight,
held up the very coffee-pot which the shameless Yankee had sold to the leather-jacketed man
of Missouri. The pot had been filled with boiling water, which was now oozing out comfortably
and deliberately at every side and corner of the vessel. For one moment the spectators stared
in mute astonishment; but then the discovery of the Yankee's cheatery drew from them a peal
of laughter which seemed likely to be inextinguishable.

"Jared Bundle! What do you say to that? Jared Bundle's teapots! A hurra for Jared Bundle and
the Yankee teapots!"

The immovable pedlar was by no means put out of countenance by this discovery. While the backwoodsmen
were having their laugh out, he took hold of the teapot, examined it deliberately on all sides,
at front and back, inside and out, and then shook his head gravely. When the laughers had exhausted
their uproariousness, he cleared his throat, and resumed.

"Ah, gentlemen! or rather ladies and gentlemen! in our happy land of freedom and enlightenment,
the most enlightened country in the world, no one, I am sure, will refuse to hear the poor
pedlar's explanation of this singular circumstance. I know you are all most desirous of havin'
it explained, and explain it I can and will. I am sorry to say there are gentlemen who sell
teapots for the southern states which are only meant for the northern ones, and others who
sell for the north what is meant for the south. That's how I've been deceived in these teapots,
which come from the store of the highly respectable Messrs Knockdown. They are for northern
consumption, gentlemen, without the smallest doubt, and you know that many teapots will support
the cold of the north, but are worth nothin' when they git into a southern climate. It's oncommon
hot, you see, down hereaway on the Mississippi, and I reckon that's the reason that you southern
gentlemen are sich an almighty b'ilin' up people, who take a gougin' to your breakfast as we
should a mackerel. I'm a'most inclined to think, too, that you bile your water a deal too hot,
which our northern tea and coffee pots ain't used to, and can't stand nohow."

"Humbug!" growled a score of backwoodsmen, some of whom began to close round the Yankee, as
if to make sure of him and his worthless wares.

"Boe! Boe!" howled Sambo, who had been quite forgotten during this scene.

"You still here, you black devil!" cried the pedlar, turning fiercely round upon the negro.
"Am I to be deafened by your cussed croakin'? Don't mind him, ladies and gentlemen--pay no
attention to him. Who cares about a nigger? He only cries out for his amusement. It's all his
tricks and cunnin'; he'd like to git some more of my sarve on his black hide! He won't have
any, tho'! Be off with ye, you stinkin' nigger!"

"Stinkin' nigga! Massa Yankee say stinkin' nigga!" yelled Sambo, showing all his white teeth
in an ecstasy of anger. "Matto stinkin' nigga now," screamed he as he sprang suddenly to his
feet, to the infinite delight of the backwoodsmen, and began capering and hopping about, and
grinning like a mad ape. "Matto stinkin' nigga now; one hour 'go him dearie Matto, and good
Matto, and Massa Yankee promise four picaillee[33] if Matto let dam heavy chest wid stinkin'
serve fall on him foot and shoulder. Boe! Boe! Massa Yankee no good man; bad Massa, Massa Yankee!"

And so it was and turned out to be. The rogue of a Yankee had made a sort of bargain with Sambo,
and arranged a scheme by which to draw the attention of the passengers in a natural manner
to the famous Palmyra salve. Seldom or never had the risible nerves of the burly backwoodsmen
on board the Ploughboy steamer, been so enormously tickled as by the discovery of this Yankee
trick. The laughter was deafening, really earsplitting; and was only brought to something like
an end by the appearance of the captain, who came with a petition from the lady passengers,
to the effect that the Yankee should not be too hardly dealt with for his ingenious attempt
to transfer his fellow-citizens' dollars into his own pocket. Thereupon Badgers and Buckeyes,
Wolverines and Redhorses, abated their hilarity; and it was comical to see how these rough
tenants of the western forests proceeded, with all the gravity of backwoods etiquette, to respond
to the humanity of the ladies. In the first place a deputation was chosen, consisting of two
individuals, who were charged to assure the ladies of the universal willingness to treat the
Yankee as tenderly as might be consistent with the nature of his transgression; secondly, a
commission was appointed for the examination of the spurious wares. The articles that had been
bought were produced one after the other, their quality and value investigated, and then they
were either condemned and thrown overboard, or their sale was confirmed. The tea and coffee
pots were almost, without exception, pronounced worthless; for although well enough calculated
for a long voyage on the Mississippi, they could never have been meant to hold boiling Mississippi
water. The wonderful Palmyra salve proved to be neither more nor less than a compound of hog's
lard and gunpowder, with the juice of tobacco and walnut leaves--a mixture that might perhaps
have been useful for the destruction of vermin, but the efficacy of which as an antidote to
freckles and lockjaw was at least problematical. The teapots, the ointment, and some spices,
amongst which wooden nutmegs cut an important figure, were duly consigned to the keeping of
the Mississippi kelpies; while the dollars that had been paid for them were retransferred from
the pockets of the Yankee to those of the credulous purchasers. Finally, Mr Bundle himself,
in consideration of the truly republican stoicism with which he witnessed the execution of
the judgment pronounced on his wares, was invited with much ceremony to regale himself with
a "go-the-whole-hog-cocktail," an honour which he accepted and replied to in a set speech,
at the conclusion of which he enquired whether the honourable society by whose sentence he
had been deprived of the larger portion of his merchandise, could not recommend him to a schoolmaster's
place in one of their respectable settlements. I almost wondered that he did not treat us to
a Methodist sermon as a preparation for our slumbers. He seemed the right man to do it. He
exactly answered to the description given of the Yankees by Halleck, in his Connecticut:--

    ----"Apostates, who are meddling
    With merchandise, pounds, shillings, pence, and peddling,
    Or wandering through southern climates teaching
    The A, B, C, from Webster's spelling-book;
    Gallant and godly, making love and preaching,
    And gaining by what they call hook and crook,
    And what the moralists call overreaching,
    A decent living. The Virginians look
    Upon them with as favourable eyes
    As Gabriel on the devil in Paradise."

There was a deafening "Hurrah for the honourable Mistress Howard!" as the party of backwoodsmen
walked off towards the gentlemen's cabin; and then things became quieter. I had invited the
bears to drink a glass to Mrs Howard's health, and had told the steward to put down to my account
the slings and cocktails they might consume. Mrs Dobleton, whose husband is secretary to a
temperance society, pulled a wry face or two at what she doubtless thought an encouragement
to vice; but for my part I have no such scruples. It always gives me pleasure to find myself
thrown by chance among these rough and wild, but upright and energetic sons of the wilderness--these
pioneers of the west, who pass their lives in converting tangled thickets and endless forests
into fields and pastures, for the benefit of generations yet unborn. Truly, dear Louise, a
few dollars spent amongst these worthy fellows are not thrown away, if they serve to form one,
the smallest, link of the chain of good-will and good fellowship that does and ought to bind
us to our fellow-citizens.

FOOTNOTES:

[33] The Louisianian name for 6-1/4 cent pieces.

WESTMINSTER-HALL AND THE WORKS OF ART,

(On a Free Admission Day.)

BY B. SIMMONS.

    I.

    By slow degrees, like rain-fraught breeze rising in time of dearth,
    Whispers of Wisdom, far and wide, are muttering o'er the earth;
    And lo! rough Reason's breath, that wafts strong human health to all,
    Has blown aside the gates where Pride dozed in her feudal hall.

    II.

    Stout Carter, drop that loutish look, nor hesitate before--
    Eyeing thy frock and clouted shoes--yon dark enormous door;
    'Tis ten to one thy trampled sires their ravaged granges gave
    To spread the Wood from whence was hew'd that oaken architrave.[34]

    III.

    Take now thy turn. We'll on and in, nor need the pealing tromp
    (Once wont the lordlings thronging here to usher to the pomp)
    To kindle our dull phantasies for yon triumphal show
    That lights the roof so high aloof with the whiteness of its glow.

    IV.

    RED WILLIAM, couldst thou heave aside the marble of the tomb,
    And look abroad from Winchester's song-consecrated gloom,[35]
    A keener smart than Tyrrel's dart would pierce thy soul to see
    In thy vast courts the Vileinage and peasants treading free.

    V.

    Oh, righteous retribution! Ye Shades of those who here
    Stood up in bonds before the slaves of sceptred fraud and fear!
    Unswerving SOMERS!--MORE!--even thou, dark
    SOMERSET,[36] who fell
    In pride of place condignly, yet who loved the Commons well--

    VI.

    And Ye who with undaunted hearts, immortal mitred Few!
    For Truth's dear sake, the Tyrant foil'd to whom ye still were true--[37]
    Rejoice! Who knows what scatter'd thoughts of yours were buried seeds,
    Slow-springing for th' oppress'd and poor, and ripen'd now to deeds?

    VII.

    Ha, ha! 'twould make a death's-head laugh to see how the cross-bones--
    The black judicial formula devised by bloody thrones--
    The Axe's edge this way, now that, borne before murder'd men,
    Who died for aiding their true Liege on mountain and in glen,[38]

    VIII.

    Are swept like pois'nous spiders' webs for ever from the scene,
    Where in their place come crowding now the mighty and the mean;
    The Peer walks by the Peasant's side,[39] to see if grace and art
    Can touch a bosom clad in frieze, can brighten Labour's heart.

    IX.

    O! ye who doubt presumptuously that feeling, taste, are given
    To all for culture, free as flowers, by an impartial heaven,
    Look through this quiet rabble here--doth it not shame to-day
    More polish'd mobs to whom we owe our annual squeeze in May?

    X.

    Mark that poor Maiden, to her Sire interpreting the tale
    There pictured of the Loved and Left,[40] until her cheek grows pale:--
    Yon crippled Dwarf that sculptured Youth[41] eyeing with glances dim,
    Wondering will he, in higher worlds, be tall and straight like him;--

    XI.

    How well they group with yonder pale but fire-eyed Artisan,
    Who just has stopp'd to bid his boys those noble features scan
    That sadden us for WILKIE! See! he tells them now the story
    Of that once humble lad, and how he won his marble glory.

    XII.

    Not all alone thou weep'st in stone, poor Lady, o'er thy Chief,[42]
    That huge-limb'd Porter, spell-struck there, stands sharer in thy grief.
    Pert Cynic, scorn not his amaze; all savage as he seems,
    What graceful shapes henceforward may whiten his heart in dreams!

    XIII.
    A long adieu, dark Years! to you, of war on field and flood,
    Battle afar, and mimic war at hone to train our blood--
    The ruffian Ring--the goaded Bull--the Lottery's gates of sin--
    The all to nurse the outward brute, and starve the soul within!

    XIV.

    Here lives and breathes around us proof that those all-evil times
    Are fled with their decrepit thoughts, their slaughter, and their crimes;
    Long stood THIS HALL the type of all could MAN'S grim bonds increase--
    Henceforth be it his Vestibule to hope, and light, and peace!

                                        August, 1844.

FOOTNOTES:

[34] Westminster-Hall, first reared by Rufus, was entirely rebuilt by Richard II.

[35] Winchester, many years the residence of Joseph Warton, is so much associated with the
recollections and noble poetry of his younger brother, as to warrant the expression in the text.

[36] The Protector-Duke, beheaded on Tower-Hill in the reign of his nephew, Edward VI.--"His
attention to the poor during his Protectorship, and his opposition to the system of enclosures,
had created him many friends among the lower classes, who hastened to witness his end, and
yet flattered themselves with the hope of his reprieve."--LINGARD.

[37] The trial of the seven bishops took place in the hall. Five out of their number--worthy
of note upon every occasion--(the Archbishop, the Bishops of Ely, Bath and Wells, Chichester,
and Petersborough,) refused the oaths to King William, and were deprived accordingly.

[38] The unfortunate Scottish lords were tried here 1745-6, as Horace Walpole abundantly testifies.

[39] More than one noble family, very creditably, have visited the works of art on free-admission
days.

[40] Maclise's fresco of The Knight.

[41] Youth at a stream, by J. H. Foley.

[42] Lough's Mourners, a group in marble.

LINES ON THE LANDING OF HIS MAJESTY KING LOUIS PHILIPPE, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1844.

BY B. SIMMONS.

    I.

    Ho! Wardens of the Coast look forth
      Upon your Channel seas--
    The night is melting in the north,
      There's tumult on the breeze;
    Now sinking far, now rolling out
      In proud triumphal swell,
    That mingled burst of shot and shout
      Your fathers knew so well,
    What time to England's inmost plain
      The beacon-fires proclaim'd
    That, like descending hurricane,
    Grim Blake, that Mastiff of the Main,
    Beside your shores had once again
      The Flemish lion tamed![43]

    War wakes not now that tumult loud,
      Ye Wardens of the Coast,
    Though looming large, through dawn's dim cloud,
      Like an invading host
    The Barks of France are bearing down,
      One crowd of sails, while high
    Above the misty morning's frown
      Their streamers light the sky.
    Up!--greet for once the Tricolor,
      For once the lilied flag!
    Forth with gay barge and gilded oar,
    While fast the volley'd salvoes roar
    From batteried line, and echoing shore,
      And gun-engirdled crag!

    Forth--greet with ardent hearts and eyes,
      The GUEST those galleys bring;
    In Wisdom's walks the more than Wise--
      'Mid Kings the more than King!
    No nobler visitant e'er sought
      The Mighty's white-cliff'd isle,
    Where ALFRED ruled, where BACON thought,
      Where AVON'S waters smile:
    Hail to the tempest-vexed Man!
      Hail to the Sovereign-Sage!
    A wearier pilgrimage who ran
    Than the immortal Ithacan,
    Since first his great career began,
      Ulysses of our age!

    A more than regal welcome give,
      Ye thousands crowding round;
    Shout for the once lorn Fugitive,
      Whose soul no solace found
    Save in that SELF-RELIANCE--match
      For adverse worlds, alone--
    Which cheer'd the Tutor's humble thatch,
      Nor left him on the throne.
    The WANDERER MULLER'S sails they furl--
      The Wave-encounterer, who,
    When Freedom leagued with Crime to hurl
    Up earth's foundations, from the whirl
    Where vortex'd Empires raged, the pearl
      Of matchless Prudence drew.

    V.

    Shout for the Husband and the Sire,
      Whose children, train'd to truth,
    Repaid in feeling, grace, and fire,
      The lessons taught their youth.
    Recall his grief when bent above
      His rose-zoned daughter's clay,
    Beside whose marble, lifeless, Love,
      And Art, and Genius lay.[44]
    And his be homage still more dread,
      From our mute spirits won,
    For tears of heart-wrung anguish shed,
    When with that gray "discrownèd head,"
    On foot he follow'd to the dead
      His gallant, princely son.

    VI.

    Shout for the Hero and the King
      In soul serene--alike,
    If suppliant States the sceptre bring,
      Or banded traitors strike!
    Oh, if at times a thrall too strong
      Round Freedom's form be laid,
    Where Faction works by wrath and wrong
      His pardon be display'd.
    Be his this praise--unspoil'd by power
      His course benignly ran,
    A MONARCH, mindful of the hour
    He felt misfortune's wintry shower,
    A MAN, from hall to peasant's bower,
      The common friend of Man.

    VII.

    Again the ramparts' loosen'd load
      Of thunder rends the air!
    Peal on--such pomp is fitly show'd--
      He lands no stranger there.
    Hear from his lips your language grave
      In earnest accents fall--
    The memories of the home ye gave
      He hastens to recall--
    'Mid flash of spears and fiery thrill
      Of trumpets speed him forth,
    The Master-Mind your Shakspeare still
    Had loved to draw--that to its will
    Shapes Fate and Chance with potent skill--
      The Numa of the North.

    VIII.

    Windsor! henceforth a loftier spell
      Invests thy storied walls--
    The Bards of future years shall tell
      That first within thy halls
    Imperial TRUTH and MERCY met,
      And in that hallow'd hour
    Gave earth the hope that Peace shall yet
      Be dear to Kings as Power.
    When France clasp'd England's hand of old
      There memory marks the wane
    Of iron times, the bad and bold;[45]
    Oh, may our SECOND FIELD of GOLD
    A portent still more fair unfold
      Of Wisdom's widening reign!

FOOTNOTES:

[43] Almost all Blake's great battles were fought in the Channel. One of the most memorable
was that off Portsmouth, February 1652.

[44] The Princess Marie of Wurtemberg, the most accomplished child of this most accomplished
family, and whose beautiful efforts in sculpture and painting are well known, died a year after
her marriage, January 2, 1839.

[45] The meeting between Francis and Henry took place June 1520, the first great period of
civilized progression in Europe--the era of Printing--of Columbus--and of the Reformation.

LAMARTINE.

It is remarkable, that although England is the country in the world which has sent forth the
greatest number of ardent and intrepid travellers to explore the distant parts of the earth,
yet it can by no means furnish an array of writers of travels which will bear a comparison
with those whom France can boast. In skilful navigation, daring adventure, and heroic perseverance,
indeed, the country of Cook and Davis, of Bruce and Park, of Mackenzie and Buckingham, of Burckhardt
and Byron, of Parry and Franklin, may well claim the pre-eminence of all others in the world.
An Englishman first circumnavigated the globe; an Englishman alone has seen the fountains of
the Nile; and, five years after the ardent spirit of Columbus had led his fearful crews across
the Atlantic, Sebastian Cabot discovered the shores of Newfoundland, and planted the British
standard in the regions destined to be peopled with the overflowing multitudes of the Anglo-Saxon
race.

