THE
                TALES OF MOTHER GOOSE
                AS FIRST COLLECTED BY
              CHARLES PERRAULT IN 1696
        A NEW TRANSLATION BY CHARLES WELSH

               WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY
                     M.V. O'SHEA
  PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN

             ILLUSTRATED BY D.J. MUNRO
           AFTER DRAWINGS BY GUSTAVE DORÉ

           D.C. HEATH & CO., PUBLISHERS
              BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO

 = the letter "e" with superior macron
 [=a] = the letter "a" with superior macron]

             CONTENTS

                                           PAGE

INTRODUCTION BY PROFESSOR M.V. O'SHEA       vii

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS                       ix

CINDERELLA, OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER      1

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOOD             13

LITTLE THUMB                                29

THE MASTER CAT, OR PUSS IN BOOTS            45

RIQUET OF THE TUFT                          54

BLUE BEARD                                  66

THE FAIRY                                   75

LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD                      80

NOTE                                        85

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"She met with Gaffer Wolf"      Frontispiece

                                      PAGE

"It went on very easily"               11

"Let me see if I can do it"            15

"Slipped in under his father's seat"   30

"The Marquis of Carabas is drowning!"  48

"I am exact in keeping my word"        63

"If you open it, there's nothing you may not expect from my anger"          67

"With all my heart, Goody"             75

"He fell upon the good woman"          81

INTRODUCTION

What virtues do these stories possess that have kept them alive for so long a time? They have
to some degree stimulated and nourished qualities of supreme worth in individual and social
life. With the young the struggle against greed and falsehood and pride and cowardice is a
very real one, and situations in which these homely, fundamental traits are involved are full
of interest and seriousness. Again, to mature people the reward of well-doing and the punishment
of evil conduct portrayed in these stories are apt to seem too realistic, too much also on
the cut-and-dried pattern; but it is far different with children. They have a very concrete
sense of right and wrong, and they demand a clear, explicit, tangible outcome for every sort
of action. They must have concrete, living examples, with the appropriate outcome of each,
set before them.

A modest, faithful child will be strengthened in his good qualities; while one lacking these
will have them aroused, to some extent at any rate, by following Cinderella in her career.
Arrogance and selfishness come to unhappy straits in this fancy world, and they are likely
to fare the same in the real world; so it would be better to part company with them, and take
up with gentleness and kindliness and faithfulness instead. And every one may be of some help
to others if he be only of the right mind. The brother who thought himself faring badly with
only a cat for a legacy learns betimes that even so small and apparently helpless a creature
may be of much service when he is rightly disposed. A person might think little Thumb could
accomplish nothing of value to any one, but he again teaches the child that all depends on
the willingness to be of assistance, the good-heartedness, the fellow-feeling which one has
for others.

In making this version anew the translator has endeavored to retain the characteristics of
the style of the early chap-book versions, while evading the pompous, stilted language and
Johnsonian phraseology so fashionable when they were first translated.

M.V. O'SHEA.

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN.

The Tales of Mother Goose.

CINDERELLA, OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER.

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOODS.

Once upon a time there was a king and a queen, who were very sorry that they had no children,--so
sorry that it cannot be told. She hoped that she might speak last and undo as much as she could
the evil which the old fairy might do.

"What are you doing there, my good woman?" said the Princess.

"I am spinning, my pretty child," said the old woman, who did not know who the Princess was.

"Ha!" said the Princess, "this is very pretty; how do you do it? Give it to me. Let me see
if I can do it." People came in from every quarter; they threw water upon the face of the Princess,
unlaced her, struck her on the palms of her hands, and rubbed her temples with cologne water;
but nothing would bring her to herself.

Then the King, who came up at hearing the noise, remembered what the fairies had foretold.
All this was done in a moment. Fairies are not long in doing their work.

And now the King and Queen, having kissed their dear child without waking her, went out of
the palace and sent forth orders that nobody should come near it. Every one knew that this
also was the work of the fairy in order that while the Princess slept she should have nothing
to fear from curious people. Some said that it was an old haunted castle, others that all the
witches of the country held their midnight revels there, but the common opinion was that it
was an ogre's dwelling, and that he carried to it all the little children he could catch, so
as to eat them up at his leisure, without any one being able to follow him, for he alone had
the power to make his way through the wood. However, he did not cease from continuing his way;
a young prince in search of glory is ever valiant.

He came into a spacious outer court, and what he saw was enough to freeze him with horror.
A frightful silence reigned over all; the image of death was everywhere, and there was nothing
to be seen but what seemed to be the outstretched bodies of dead men and animals. He, however,
very well knew, by the ruby faces and pimpled noses of the porters, that they were only asleep;
and their goblets, wherein still remained some drops of wine, showed plainly that they had
fallen asleep while drinking their wine. He went through several rooms full of gentlemen and
ladies, some standing and others sitting, but all were asleep. He was more at a loss than she,
and we need not wonder at it; she had had time to think of what to say to him; for it is evident
(though history says nothing of it) that the good fairy, during so long a sleep, had given
her very pleasant dreams. In short, they talked together for four hours, and then they said
not half they had to say.

In the meanwhile all the palace had woke up with the Princess; every one thought upon his own
business, and as they were not in love, they were ready to die of hunger. The Prince helped
the Princess to rise. She was entirely and very magnificently dressed; but his royal Highness
took care not to tell her that she was dressed like his great-grandmother, and had a high collar.
She looked not a bit the less charming and beautiful for all that.

They went into the great mirrored hall, where they supped, and were served by the officers
of the Princess's household. They had but very little sleep--the Princess scarcely needed any;
and the Prince left her next morning to return into the city, where his father was greatly
troubled about him. He left the government of the kingdom to the Queen, his mother, and earnestly
commended his wife and children to her care.

"O! madam!" cried the head cook.

All had gone well up to now; but one evening this wicked Queen said to her chief cook:--

"I will eat the Queen with the same sauce I had with her children."

Now the poor chief cook was in despair and could not imagine how to deceive her again. The
young Queen was over twenty years old, not reckoning the hundred years she had been asleep:
and how to find something to take her place greatly puzzled him. "Carry out your orders, and
then I shall go and see my children, my poor children, whom I loved so much and so tenderly."

For she thought them dead, since they had been taken away without her knowledge. She was now
well satisfied with her cruel deeds, and she invented a story to tell the King on his return,
of how the Queen his wife and her two children had been devoured by mad wolves. The King was
of course very sorry, for she was his mother; but he soon comforted himself with his beautiful
wife and his pretty children.

LITTLE THUMB. What gave them yet more uneasiness was that the youngest was very delicate, and
scarce ever spoke a word, which made people take for stupidity that which was a sign of good
sense. He was very little, and when born he was no bigger than one's thumb; hence he was called
Little Thumb.

The poor child was the drudge of the household, and was always in the wrong. He was, however,
the most bright and discreet of all the brothers; and if he spoke little, he heard and thought
the more.

"Ah!" cried out his wife, "could you really take the children and lose them?" They all went
out, but Little Thumb never told his brothers a word of what he knew.

They went into a very thick forest, where they could not see one another at ten paces apart.

When the children found they were alone, they began to cry with all their might. This gave
them new life, for the poor people were dying of hunger. The fagot-maker sent his wife to the
butcher's at once. I told you we should repent of it. What are they now doing in the forest?
Come in and let me clean you."

Peter was her eldest son, whom she loved more than all the rest, because he was red haired,
as she was herself.

They sat down to table, and ate with an appetite which pleased both father and mother, to whom
they told how frightened they were in the forest, nearly all speaking at once. The good folk
were delighted to see their children once more, and this joy continued while the ten crowns
lasted. But when the money was all spent, they fell again into their former uneasiness, and
resolved to lose their children again. And, that they might be the surer of doing it, they
determined to take them much farther than before.

They could not talk of this so secretly but they were overheard by Little Thumb, who laid his
plans to get out of the difficulty as he had done before; but, though he got up very early
to go and pick up some little pebbles, he could not, for he found the house-door double-locked.
He did not know what to do. Their father had given each of them a piece of bread for their
breakfast. He reflected that he might make use of the bread instead of the pebbles, by throwing
crumbs all along the way they should pass, and so he stuffed it in his pocket.

They were now in great trouble; for the more they wandered, the deeper they went into the forest.
Night now fell, and there arose a high wind, which filled them with fear. They fancied they
heard on every side the howling of wolves coming to devour them.

Little Thumb climbed up to the top of a tree, to see if he could discover anything.

They arrived at last at the house where this candle was, not without many frights; for very
often they lost sight of it, which happened every time they came into a hollow. They knocked
at the door, and a good woman came and opened it.

She asked them what they wanted. Do you know that this house belongs to a cruel Ogre who eats
little children?"

"Alas! dear madam," answered Little Thumb (who, with his brothers, was trembling in every limb),
"what shall we do? The wolves of the forest surely will devour us to-night if you refuse us
shelter in your house; and so we would rather the gentleman should eat us. Perhaps he may take
pity upon us if you will be pleased to ask him to do so."

"Ah!" said he, "that is how you would cheat me; I know not why I do not eat you, too; it is
well for you that you are tough. They were not as yet wicked, but they promised well to be,
for they had already bitten little children.

They had been put to bed early, all seven in one bed, with every one a crown of gold upon her
head. There was in the same chamber a bed of the like size, and the Ogre's wife put the seven
little boys into this bed, after which she went to bed herself.

And saying these words, without more ado, he cruelly murdered all his seven daughters. Well
pleased with what he had done, he went to bed again. They stole softly into the garden and
got over the wall. They ran about, all night, trembling all the while, without knowing which
way they went.

She began by fainting away, as was only natural in such a case. Little Thumb was not so much
frightened as his brothers, and told them that they should run away at once toward home while
the Ogre was asleep so soundly, and that they need not be in any trouble about him. They took
his advice, and got home quickly. Little Thumb returned that very same night with the news;
and, this first expedition causing him to be known, he earned as much as he wished, for the
King paid him very well for carrying his orders to the army. Many ladies employed him also
to carry messages, from which he made much money.

THE MASTER CAT, OR PUSS IN BOOTS.

Once upon a time there was a miller who left no more riches to the three sons he had than his
mill, his ass, and his cat. The division was soon made. Neither the lawyer nor the attorney
was sent for. They would soon have eaten up all the poor property. The eldest had the mill,
the second the ass, and the youngest nothing but the cat.

The youngest, as we can understand, was quite unhappy at having so poor a share.

Though the Cat's master did not think much of what he said, he had seen him play such cunning
tricks to catch rats and mice--hanging himself by the heels, or hiding himself in the meal,
to make believe he was dead--that he did not altogether despair of his helping him in his misery.
Proud of his prey, he went with it to the palace, and asked to speak with the King.

The Cat continued for two or three months thus to carry his Majesty, from time to time, some
of his master's game. While he was bathing, the King passed by, and the Cat cried out with
all his might:--

"Help! help!

"You have a good property there," said the King to the Marquis of Carabas.

The Marquis gave his hand to the young Princess, and followed the King, who went first.

RIQUET WITH THE TUFT.

Once upon a time there was a Queen who had a son so ugly and so misshapen that it was long
disputed whether he had human form. A fairy who was at his birth said, however, that he would
be very amiable for all that, since he would have uncommon good sense. She even added that
it would be in his power, by virtue of a gift she had just then given him, to bestow as much
sense as he pleased on the person he loved the best. All this somewhat comforted the poor Queen.
It is true that this child no sooner began to talk than he said a thousand pretty things, and
in all his actions there was an intelligence that was quite charming. I forgot to tell you
that he was born with a little tuft of hair upon his head, which made them call him Riquet[1]
with the Tuft, for Riquet was the family name.

[Footnote 1: R[=e]k[=a].]

Seven or eight years later the Queen of a neighboring kingdom had two daughters who were twins.
This mortified the Queen extremely; but afterward she had a far greater sorrow, for the second
daughter proved to be very ugly.

"Do not afflict yourself so much, madam," said the fairy. It is true also that their defects
increased considerably with their age. The elder, dull as she was, could not fail to notice
this; and without the slightest regret would have given all her beauty to have half her sister's
wit. The Queen, prudent as she was, could not help reproaching her several times for her stupidity,
which almost made the poor Princess die of grief.

"There is nothing, madam," returned he, "shows more that we have good sense than to believe
we have none; and it is the nature of that excellent quality that the more people have of it,
the more they believe they want it."

"I do not know that," said the Princess; "but I know very well that I am very senseless, and
that vexes me mightily."

"I see," replied Riquet with the Tuft, "that this proposal does not please you, and I do not
wonder at it; but I will give you a whole year to consider it."

The King governed himself by her advice, and would even sometimes hold a council in her apartment.
The news of this change in the Princess spread everywhere; the young princes of the neighboring
kingdoms strove all they could to gain her favor, and almost all of them asked her in marriage;
but she found not one of them had sense enough for her. She gave them all a hearing, but would
not engage herself to any. She thanked her father, and desired him to give her time to consider
it. There came out of it a company of cooks, to the number of twenty or thirty, who went to
plant themselves about a very long table set up in the forest, with their larding pins in their
hands and fox tails in their caps, and began to work, keeping time to a very harmonious tune.
Putting aside my ugliness and deformity, is there anything in me which displeased you?

They say further that his eyes, which were squinted very much, seemed to her most bright and
sparkling, that their irregularity passed in her judgment for a mark of the warmth of his affection,
and, in short, that his great red nose was, in her opinion, somewhat martial and heroic in
character.

However it was, the Princess promised immediately to marry him, on condition that he obtained
the King's consent.

BLUE BEARD.

THE FAIRY.

Once upon a time there was a widow who had two daughters. The elder was so much like her, both
in looks and character, that whoever saw the daughter saw the mother. They were both so disagreeable
and so proud that there was no living with them. She made her eat in the kitchen and work continually.
One day, as she was at this fountain, there came to her a poor woman, who begged of her to
let her drink.

"Oh, yes, with all my heart, Goody," said this pretty little girl.

The girl told her frankly all the matter, not without dropping out great numbers of diamonds.

"Truly," cried the mother, "I must send my own dear child thither. Fanny, look at what comes
out of your sister's mouth when she speaks. Would you not be glad, my dear, to have the same gift?

"I should like to see myself going to the fountain to draw water," said this ill-bred minx.

"I insist you shall go," said the mother, "and that instantly."

She went, but grumbled all the way, taking with her the best silver tankard in the house.

"You are scarcely polite," answered the fairy, without anger.

"Oh, mercy!" cried the mother, "what is it I see?

The King's son, who was returning from the chase, met her, and seeing her so beautiful, asked
her what she did there alone and why she cried. The miserable girl, after wandering about and
finding no one to take her in, went to a corner of the wood, and there died. He knocked at
the door--tap, tap, tap.

"Who's there?" called the grandmother. He then shut the door, went into the grandmother's bed,
and waited for Little Red Riding-hood, who came sometime afterward and knocked at the door--tap,
tap, tap.

"Who's there?" called the Wolf.

NOTE.

The eight stories contained in this volume are first found in print in French in a magazine
entitled, Receuil de pièces curieuses et nouvelles tant en prose qu'en vers, which was published
by Adrian Moetjens at The Hague in 1696-1697. They were immediately afterward published at
Paris in a volume entitled, Histoires ou Contes du Temps Passé, avec des Moralites--Contes
de ma mère l'Oie.

The earliest translation into English has been found in a little book containing both the English
and French, entitled, "Tales of Passed Times, by Mother Goose. With Morals. Written in French
by M. (Charles) Perrault, and Englished by R.S. Gent."

Who R.S. was and when he made his translation we can only conjecture. Mr. Andrew Lang, in his
"Perrault's Popular Tales" (p. xxxiv), writes: "An English version translated by Mr. Samber,
printed for J. Pote, was advertised, Mr. Austin Dobson tells me, in the Monthly Chronicle,
March, 1729."

These stories which may be said to be as old as the race itself--certainly their germs are
to be found in the oldest literature and among the oldest folk-tales in the world--were orally
current in France and the neighboring countries in nearly the form in which Perrault wrote
them for very many years; and an interesting account of the various forms in which they are
found in the literature and folklore of other nations before Perrault's time is given in Les
Contes de ma mère l'Oie avant Perrault, by Charles Deulin, Paris, E. Dentu, 1878.

In this book Mr. Deulin inclines to the view that the stories as first published by Perrault
were not really written by him, but by his little son of ten or eleven, to whom Perrault told
the stories as he had gathered them up with the intention of rendering them in verse after
the manner of La Fontaine. The lad had an excellent memory, much natural wit, and a great gift
of expression. He loved the stories his father told him and thoroughly enjoyed the task his
father set him of rewriting them from memory, as an exercise. This was so happily done, in
such a fresh, artless, and engaging style, exactly befitting the subjects of the stories, that
the father found the son's version better than the one he had contemplated and gave that to
the world instead.

These stories made their way slowly in England at first, but in the end they nearly eclipsed
the native fairy tales and legends, which, owing to Puritan influence, had been frowned upon
and discouraged until they were remembered only in the remoter districts, and told only by
the few who had not come under its sway. Indeed, the Puritanical objection to nursery lore
of all kinds still lingers in some corners of England.

The stories of Perrault came in just when the severer manifestations of Puritanism were beginning
to decline, and they have since become as much a part of English fairy lore as the old English
folk and fairy tales themselves. These latter, thanks to Mr. Joseph Jacob, Mr. Andrew Lang,
Mr. E.S. Hartland, and others, have been unearthed and revived, and prove to have lost nothing
of their power of taking hold upon the minds of the little folk.

Perrault says of his collection that it is certain these stories excite in the children who
read them the desire to resemble those characters who become happy, and at the same time they
inspire them with the fear of the consequences which happen to those who do ill deeds; and
he claims that they all contain a very distinct moral which is more or less evident to all
who read them.

Emerson says: "What Nature at one time provides for use, she afterwards turns to ornament,"
and Herbert Spencer, following out this idea, remarks that "the fairy lore, which in times
past was matter of grave belief and held sway over people's conduct, has since been transformed
into ornament for The Midsummer Night's Dream, The Tempest, The Fairy Queen, and endless small
tales and poems; and still affords subjects for children's story books, amuses boys and girls,
and becomes matter for jocose allusion."

Thus, also, Sir Walter Scott, in a note to "The Lady of the Lake," says: "The mythology of
one period would appear to pass into the romance of the next, and that into the nursery tales
of subsequent ages," and Max Müller, in his "Chips from a German Workshop," says: "The gods
of ancient mythology were changed into the demigods and heroes of ancient epic poetry, and
these demigods again became at a later age the principal characters of our nursery tales."

These thoughts may help to a better understanding of some of the uses of such stories and of
their proper place in children's reading.

C.W.

