Tuesday, February 4th.--There is much virtue in horsehair. Few who attended the informal opening
of the Third Parliament of KING GEORGE THE FIFTH would have guessed that under the full-bottomed
wig and gorgeous black-and-gold robes of the dignified figure on the Woolsack lay the volatile
personality of "F. E." He played his new part nobly. A trifling error in the setting of his
three-cornered hat, whose rakish cock was for the moment reminiscent of the "Galloper," was
quickly corrected on the advice of one of the Lords Commissioners at his side; and by the time
the faithful Commons were admitted to hear the Commission read there was nothing to differentiate
Lord BIRKENHEAD (as he had now become) from any previous occupant of his exalted position.
Nor was there any lack of dignity in his delivery of the instructions to the Commons to "proceed
to the choice of some proper person to be your Speaker"--though I fancy that when he bade them
"repair to the place where you are to sit" he must have been tempted to add the words, "provided
that you can find room there."

For the Lower House, when we returned there, was a seething mass of humanity. How many of the
707 duly elected Members were present I know not; but there were enough to swamp the floor
and surge over into the Galleries. Seeing that the "Tubes" were closed and taxis few and far
between, some of them were obliged to resort to unusual methods of locomotion. Sir HENRY NORMAN
surprised the police in Palace Yard by arriving on a motor-scooter, and there is an unconfirmed
rumour that the Editor of John Bull made his rentrée to the House in a flying-boat drawn by
four canards sauvages. Anyhow, there they were, so thick and slab that Mr. DE VALERA, who was
reported to have escaped from durance vile with the intention of presenting himself at the
House and creating a disturbance, would have found it impossible to gain entry unless preceded
by a charge of gelignite.

Not that they were by any means dull. For both Colonel MILDMAY, who proposed, and Sir HENRY
DALZIEL, who seconded, the re-election of Mr. LOWTHER as Speaker, spiced their compliments
with humour. The former was confident that even if Woman appeared on the floor of the House
the SPEAKER-ELECT'S "consummate tact" would be equal to coping with her artfullest endeavours
to get round the rules of procedure; while the latter attributed his priceless gift of humour
to "Scottish ancestry on the mother's side."

Horsehair again! I hardly recognised in the quietly-dressed Member who rose from the Bench
behind Ministers to acknowledge these encomiums the man whose awe-inspiring appearance (when
clothed in wig and gown) has quelled so many storms in the last four Parliaments. Let us hope
that the fifth, of which, being the outcome of his famous Conference, he may in a sense be
described as the "onlie begetter," will not disgrace its parentage.

Already there are elements of difficulty. Through the non-return of Mr. ASQUITH the Opposition
has lost its head literally and is in some danger of losing it figuratively, for the remnant
of the un-"couponed" Liberals and the Labour Party are at present acutely divided on the question
upon whom the lost Leader's mantle should fall. Today Sir DONALD MACLEAN, as senior Privy Councillor,
took the pas and was able from personal experience to give his conception of the ideal Speaker,
who "must not only have good vision but be sometimes quite blind; not only have acute hearing
but occasionally be almost stone-deaf." Fortunately the SPEAKER-ELECT can assume these physical
defects at will; for, despite its quiet opening, I doubt if the new Parliament when it gets
to work will prove precisely a Lowther Arcadia.

Wednesday, February 5th.--To the Lords again, where the SPEAKER-ELECT, attired in Court dress
and accompanied by the SERGEANT-AT-ARMS dandling the Mace as if it ware a refractory infant,
presented himself at the Bar to hear from the LORD CHANCELLOR the pleasing intelligence that
HIS MAJESTY was convinced of his "ample sufficiency" to execute his arduous duties, and readily
approved his election. Thereupon Sir COLIN KEPPEL swung the Mace on to his shoulder and escorted
the SPEAKER, now confirmed in his rank, back to the Commons.

There was an unusual rush of Members to take the oath. This was not entirely due to the new
Members, naturally desirous of completing their initiatory rites, but was shared by many of
the older hands, for the good and sufficient reason that, until a Member is certified as having
been duly sworn, he cannot recover his one hundred and fifty pounds deposit from the Returning
Officer. In their zeal to be in a position to reimburse themselves Members crowded in such
numbers to the tables that there was some danger that they would be overturned. As one of our
Latinists remarked, "It looks as if we should have novae res outside and novae tabulae inside."

Thursday, February 6th.--The process, once immortalized by a Lords' reporter in the sentence,
"A few Bishops looked in, swore, and went away again," went on in both Houses; but in the Commons
in a more orderly fashion than yesterday. For the SPEAKER, ever ready, as he said on his election,
"to carry out the old rules in a modern spirit," directed the waiting Members to form up in
line. One of the Coalitionists evinced a little surprise. He had always understood that when
coupons were issued queues were superfluous.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A VALENTINE.

  Dear Lydia, long before your time,
      When I was half the 'teen you own to,
  Don Valentine was in his prime,
      The world not yet the thing it's grown to.
  The postman then with double knocks
      This morning many a heart was thrilling,
  And brought a shining cardboard box
      With round red hearts in paper frilling.

  A simpler world, and well content
      With what seems small by modern measure;
  And winters came and roses went,
      Yet Time dulls pain as well as pleasure.
  Though, with this fashion out of date,
      His hand to-day weighs almost lightly
  If this my war-time chocolate
      Makes two dark eyes to shine more brightly.

       *       *       *       *       *

HINTS FOR THE GARDEN.

To those who are about to re-establish their herbaceous borders it will come as a welcome surprise
that restrictions as to the sale of the following foodstuffs by nurserymen have now been withdrawn:--

Stucky's Germania (Lamb's Ear).

Scolopendrium (Hart's Tongue).

No coupons will be required for these in future.

Fatsia Horrida.--This is no longer grown by nurserymen, but can be obtained at any butcher's,
large quantities having recently arrived from Greece. Smith minor, possibly a prejudiced witness,
says he gets it at school; that it is beastly and only another name for Cod Liver Oil.

Sambucus (the Elder).--A correspondent inquires if anything is known of the younger branch
of this family. On being appealed to the Secretary of the Linnaean Society sent the following
somewhat enigmatic telegram: "Recommend CLEMENCEAU non-Papa, who may know something of Uncle Sam."

Hydrangea.--This hardy shrub is so called as it was originally raised by the Ranger of Hyde
Park. The American variety "radiata" succeeds well indoors if grown on hot-water pipes.

Pirus.--There are several varieties of this species. The best known, however, comes from Cornwall
and was raised by the late Sir W.S. GILBERT, who introduced the Savoy cabbage. It is called
the Pirus of Penzance.

       *       *       *       *       *

DANCING DEMOBILISED.

    [It is said that demobilised officers, anxious to dance, are
    finding it almost impossible to buy dress-shirts and evening
    pumps.]

  Now that I've been demobilised
    I'm going again to dances--
  I do not care with whom or where,
    I'm taking any chances.
  And evening dress, I've been advised,
    Will never become transitional;
  Yet once or twice I've been surprised
    To find my khaki pals disguised
  In new dress suits and old trench boots,
    Which scarcely seems traditional.

  I met my Colonel at a hop
    Jazzing in his goloshes,
  With a dress-tie pert on a cricket-shirt
    That had shrunk in various washes;
  And my Major was doing the Donkey-Drop
    Between a couple of rippers--
  Yet his pink-and-white pyjama-top
    If anything seemed a shade de trop,
  And his faultless coat hardly echoed the note
    Of his worsted bedroom slippers.

  But the world long since went off its chump,
    And the cry of the man from France is,
  "I simply refuse to let shirts and shoes
    Prevent me from going to dances.
  I'll take the shine out of collar and pump,
    And their wearers will look silly
  When I once begin the Giraffe-Galump,
    The Chicken-Run and the Jaguar-Jump,
  The Wombat-Walk and the Buffalo-Bump,
    With a chamois vest on my manly chest,
  And football-boots and the smartest of suits
    They can cut in Piccadilly."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GRAND TRUNK LINE.

    "The following are some alternative routes which could be used by
    people going home this evening from the City or West End:--

    "Clapham Common.--By Elephant, trams and 'buses."--Evening News.

LOCAL COLOUR.

I ran upstairs after lunch to-day to see old Harris. He has the flat over mine, you know. In
addition to this Harris is an author. Sometimes he even gets money for it.

"Doin' a bit of work to-day, Harris?" I remarked casually.

"I'm doing a little flying story," he informed me with dignity.

"Oh, yes," I agreed carelessly, then woke up and stared hard.

"Flying?" I repeated. "But what the--I mean, what do you know about flying, anyway?"

Brutality is the only thing with Harris. He was very hurt. He gasped and glared at me in a
most annoyed manner.

"I know a pretty good lot," he announced with some asperity. "I've talked to dozens of pilots
about it and I've read books on flying--and the newspapers--"

"And don't forget you once passed Hendon in the train too, old son," I soothed him. "I'd no
idea you were so well up in it. Sorry I spoke. Let's see it; may I?"

Harris picked up a couple of sheets of paper from the desk and, coughing imposingly, proceeded
to read out his masterpiece:--

"Lionel Marchant came slowly out of the hangar, drawing on his long fur gloves and studying
his maps with an intent and keen face.

"His machine, a single-seater scout of the latest type, was just being wheeled out and now
stood glistening in the bright autumn sunshine, which danced on the shining brasswork and threw
deep shadows on the grass beneath.

"The airman swung lightly into his seat; a final word or two with his commanding officer and
he flung over the levers and gave a sharp turn to the starting handle.

"The powerful engine in front of him woke into life deafeningly and, waving away the mechanics
holding the wings, he pressed the clutch pedal and moved slowly forward.

"His face is very grim and determined--he throws across another lever and the low hum of the
motor changes into a deep-throated roar. Gathering speed, he goes faster and faster--now he
is in the air--now a little speck in the sky, heading for the enemy's lines--"

"Oh, no, please," I broke in feebly. "I can't stand any more just now. You're not seriously
thinking of having this published, are you?"

As in a dream I took the manuscript from his fingers and gazed blankly at it whilst his indignant
flow of speech passed harmlessly over my head.

"But, Harris," I said at length, with infinite compassion in my voice, "Harris, I love you
as a brother, but this really is awful--why--well, listen here"--

"'As the second German machine came down on them in a steep dive Lionel gave a hasty glance
behind him, where the huge engine raced madly, and shouted excitedly to his observer.

"'The latter, swinging the machine gun round sharply, took rapid aim and pressed the trigger--'"

I stopped.

"Well?" demanded the author icily.

"No, it's too frightful," I bleated. "Harris, this might conceivably be read by a real pilot.
Heaven forbid, of course! And he'd simply hate this scout 'bus with the engine ahead to change
into a 'pusher' two-seater in six paragraphs."

Harris was routed, absolutely demoralised. "They told me to put in lots of flying talk," he
murmured abjectly, "and tons of local colour to make it lifelike."

"Yes," I said grimly, "but this colour's too local for words."

"Of course, if you think you could do it better yourself," Harris observed with heavy sarcasm,
"well, then--"

"Certainly," I agreed heartily. "I don't mind showing you, Harris, seeing you're a pal of mine.
Just pass the ink and let your uncle get to work."

Behold my effort!--

"'Orderly, what about tea?'

"'Very nearly ready, Sir.'

"'Right. Then I think a small piece of toast is indicated;' and he proceeded to hack the loaf
to pieces with great vigour.

"'Hun over somewhere, sounds like,' said a sleepy voice as the throb of an engine was heard
overhead.

"'Oh, I can't help his troubles,' observed the toast-maker airily. 'He's got no right to come
at tea-time. In about half-an-hour or so I might think about--'

"Here the telephone bell rang.

"'Now that's a splendid joke,' said his unfeeling friend as he laid down the receiver. 'You've
got to go up after that chap. They're getting your 'bus out now, so--'

"'What!' came in disgusted tones from the fireside. 'Don't be so dam funny. What do you mean?'

"'Not ragging, really, Bill. The C.O. said he wanted you to have a shot at that fellow. Run
like a hare. You may catch him up over Berlin somewhere. I'll eat your toast for you.'

"'Oh, will you?' grunted the other. 'What awful rot it is! Oh, the devil--where's my hat?'
and out he plunged.

"Two minutes later he was struggling into a heavy leather coat and, feeling thoroughly ill-used,
climbed into his machine.

"The propeller was swung, emitting one hollow cough.

"'Switch off. All right, contact.'

"At the third attempt the engine remembered its manners and started up with a jerk. A few moments
to get her running smoothly, a rapid test to see that she was 'giving her revs.' and the chocks,
were waved away from the wheels.

"Within twenty yards he was off the ground and, throttle wide open, climbing towards the little
white dot thousands of feet above.

"And all the time he was grumbling.

"'What awful rot it is! I've about as much chance of reaching the blighter as ... Running my
engine to bits as it is ... May be able to cut him off when he's dropped his eggs.'

"Which is precisely what happened. The last gift had been thankfully received in a ploughed
field beneath and the Hun was turning for home when the scout struggled to his level.

"The watchers on the ground saw the small machine press determinedly towards the bigger and
a faint crackle of gun-fire broke out.

"It was answered by all the guns on board the enemy craft and the single-seater wavered undecidedly.

"Then he got his adversary fairly in his ring sight again and' risking everything, fired burst
after burst.

"All at once the big machine heeled over and dived--a flash and a sudden sheet of flame from
the engine and down dropped the raider, to dash to pieces in the French fields three miles below.

"Ten minutes later the British machine slithered on to the ground and switched off in front
of the sheds.

"'By Jove, Bill,' said his friend, rushing up excitedly, 'that was the best show--'

"'Not so much of it,' interposed the 'hero,' scrambling out of his seat. 'What about my tea?
Did you look after my toast for me? No, might have known you wouldn't.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT OUR POETS HAVE TO PUT UP WITH.

    "They who faced the terrors of the deep, Who guarded our
    snores-while we were asleep."

    Scottish Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Though his career was entirely that of a public servant, he had
    personality and that self-evident efficiency which mark a man out
    for promotion."--Times.

That "though" is rather cynical.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RECIPROCITY.

    [Discussing the unruliness of modern children, a correspondent
    in the Press suggests that parents might exchange offspring for
    educational purposes.]

  Hector, one thought alone forbade
    Your stout progenitor to squirm
  Through all the months the Huns essayed
    To pink his epiderm--
  The thought that you, through what he'd done,
  Might find a better world, my son.

  Now must you do your bit for me,
    For, guided by the sage's lore,
  I mean to barter progeny
    With Brown, the man next door,
  And educate in place of you
  Bertram, his brazen-lunged Yahoo.

  Too long, too long have I been banned
    From giving what he's been denied,
  The checkings of a chiding hand,
    Impartially applied,
  But now he's going to get it, Hec
  (Though not exactly in the neck).

  Exile from your ancestral hut
    At first may fill your soul with pain;
  If so, this filial thought should cut
    Your tears off at the main:
  The hours he spends across my knee
  Will mean a better world for me.

       *       *       *       *       *

IT HAPPENED IN IRELAND.

    "Mr. ---- held that purchased meat would be better than that
    supplied by contractors, who were not saints. He knew of one
    case where cattle were actually killed after they died."--Irish
    Times.

"The following has been issued by the Sinn Fein Executive:--

    "At the weekly meeting of the Executive it was unanimously
    decided to appeal to the subscribers to the Mansion House
    Anti-Subscription Fund."--Irish Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "This enabled him [Mr. Bottomley] to provide a sum sufficient to
    yap the other shareholders 12. in the pound."--Evening Paper.

We always thought him a bit of a dog.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLANKET ASTRAY.

Now that most of us are on the point of escaping into civil life, the relentless department
to whom the W.O. entrusted the stewardship of Army blankets is calling us to strict account
as to our dealings with these articles.

Between us and freedom rise the accusing phantoms of blankets we signed for and failed to return,
blankets we misused as carpets, curtains and table-cloths. The bright dawn of the new era is
overcast by their threatening shadow.

The A.A.L.R.B.G.S.--Acting-Assistant Local Recorder of Blankets General Service, a very important
Hat indeed--some time last winter paid us a visit and went away without complaint. We had specialised
in cherishing Blankets G.S. For fear of loss or damage none had been issued for use, and the
enthusiasm of all ranks was so warm that the men were glad to sleep without them, if only they
might go and see for themselves the full tally of blankets folded correctly to a hair's-breadth
and piled irreproachably and unapproachably in the stores.

Then, three days ago, arrived a chit asking us to explain a curt quotation from the report
of the A.A.L.R.B.G.S., to the effect that

  "There was a blanket on the table
  in the store."

By a civilian this might be interpreted as a word of praise for our care of the table or for
the comfortable tout ensemble of the Quartermaster-Sergeant's treasure-house; but we know better.
We read it with the sensations of a householder who, after the call of a Scotland Yard official,
should be invited to explain, in an otherwise satisfactory account of his visit, the sentence--

  "There was a corpse in the boot
  cupboard."

It suggested criticism, suspicion, disapproval. In his dilemma the O.C. replied as follows:--

"Owing to the fact that, in view of the paper scarcity, the keeping of Individual History Sheets
for the Blankets under my command was discontinued early in the War, I have found it difficult
to collect evidence. I beg, however, to submit the likeliest explanations that offer.

"(1) Possibly the blanket was placed on the table, folded and compressed beneath the weight
of the various utensils, literature and stationery necessary to the functioning of a B.Q.M.S.,
in order that the correct regimental wrinkles, as laid down in the various handbooks, might
be made and maintained; the blanket to be used as a model at lectures to young soldiers on
the care of equipment.

"(2) The distance between the Main Blanket Dump and the table under suspicion is only four
feet. It is in the experience of all familiar with conditions in the Field that blankets with
long service frequently develop extreme activity. I beg to suggest that the blanket in question
may have absented itself without leave from the main dump and proceeded as far as the table
by its own locomotive power.

"(3) About the date of the inspection the name of an N.C.O. was submitted with a recommendation
for the O.B.E., but was withdrawn on compassionate grounds. I cannot trust my memory, but possibly
the justification of this recommendation was the N.C.O.'s zealous care of the property of H.M.
THE KING, in that he sacrificed his own blanket for the welfare of the table." (On paper, of
course, our blankets are issued in the normal way.) "The weather at the time was inclement,
either (a) wet and dirty or (b) extremely cold. The N.C.O. was determined that this table should
be protected from the deleterious effects of (a) moisture likely to result from the vicinity
of the Q.M.S., damp from out-door duties or (b) very low temperature, which is known to injure
such articles of furniture.

"(4) The blanket may have been known to be likely to try to escape from custody, and have been
placed conspicuously on the table so as to be directly under the observation of the Q.M.S.

"(5) The table may have intended illegally to absent itself without leave, and have concealed
itself beneath the accused blanket in the hope of eluding the vigilance of the sentries, disguised
as a civilian table, i.e. covered with a table-cloth. This theory is unlikely, the table bearing
an excellent character and never having been known to attempt desertion or be in any way guilty
of conduct contrary to good order and military discipline.

"(6) The Storeman--now demobilised and dispersed--may have committed the irregularity suggested,
with the idea of increasing the amenity of the stores during the inspection, as a humble compliment
to the A.A.L.R.B.G.S.

"(7) No. 55,442, Procter, Mary, a member of the Q.M.A.A.C., may be correct in her statement
that the article described as a 'blanket' was not a blanket, but a rug, travelling. She says
she is 'in a position to know this,' as the article is her own property, and supports the claim
by demonstrating the presence of her initials embroidered across one corner.

"I await your reply." And so we all do.

       *       *       *       *       *

VICTRIX.

  Here's a lady come to town
    Puts us all to shame;
  Walking in with noiseless feet,
  Very light and very fleet,
    Over-night she came.
  Not a beauty in the land,
    Though she knew no peer
  Both for comeliness and grace,
  But must take a second place--
    The snow is here.

