[Footnote 50: The statement that the Androscoggin received its present name in compliment to
Edmond Andros, about 1684, is erroneous. This form of the name appears as early as 1639, in
the release by Thomas Purchase to the Governor of Massachusetts,--correctly printed (from the
original draft in the handwriting of Thomas Lechford) in Mass. Records, vol. i. p. 272.]

[Footnote 51: Information respecting the Indian Tribes, &c., vol. iii. p. 526.]

Madamiscomtis or Mattammiscontis, the name of a tributary of the Penobscot and of a town in
Lincoln county, Me., was translated by Mr. Greenleaf, in 1823, "Young Alewive stream;" but
it appears to represent met-a[n]ms[oo]ak-ka[n]tti, 'a place where there has been (but is not
now) plenty of alewives,' or to which they no longer resort. Compare Râle's met-a[n]m[oo]ak,
"les poissons ont faites leurs oeufs; ils s'en sont allés; il n'y en a plus."

Cobbosseecontee river, in the south part of Kennebec county, is named from a place near "the
mouth of the stream, where it adjoineth itself to Kennebec river,"[52] and 'where there was
plenty of sturgeons,'--kabassak-ka[n]tti.

[Footnote 52: Depositions in Coll. Me. Histor. Society, iv. 113.]

'Peskadamioukkanti' is given by Charlevoix, as the Indian name of "the river of the Etchemins,"
that is, the St. Croix,--a name which is now corrupted to Passamaquoddy; but this latter form
of the name is probably derived from the Etchemin, while Charlevoix wrote the Abnaki form.
The Rev. Elijah Kellogg, in 1828,[53] gave, as the meaning of 'Passamaquoddie,' 'pollock fish,'
and the Rev. Mr. Rand translates 'Pestumoo-kwoddy' by 'pollock ground.'[54] Cotton's vocabulary
gives 'pâkonnótam' for 'haddock.' Perhaps peskadami[oo]k, like a[n]ms[oo]ak, belonged to more
than one species of fish.

[Footnote 53: 3 Mass. Hist. Coll., iii. 181.]

[Footnote 54: Dawson's Acadian Geology, 2d ed., (London, 1868), pp. 3, 8.]

Of Etchemin and Micmac words having a similar termination, we find among others,--

Shubenacadie (Chebenacardie on Charlevoix' map, and Shebenacadia on Jeffry's map of 1775).
One of the principal rivers of Nova Scotia, was so named because 'sipen-ak were plenty there.'
Professor Dawson was informed by an "ancient Micmac patriarch," that "Shuben or Sgabun means
ground-nuts or Indian potatoes," and by the Rev. Mr. Rand, of Hantsport, N.S., that "segubbun
is a ground-nut, and Segubbuna-kaddy is the place or region of ground-nuts," &c.[55] It is
not quite certain that shuben and segubbun denote the same esculent root. The Abnaki name of
the wild potato or ground-nut was pen, pl. penak (Chip. opin-[=i]g; Del. obben-ak); 'sipen,'
which is obviously the equivalent of sheben, Râle describes as "blanches, plus grosses que
des penak:" and sheep'n-ak is the modern Abnaki (Penobscot) name for the bulbous roots of the
Yellow Lily (Lilium Canadense). Thoreau's Indian guide in the 'Maine Woods' told him that these
bulbs "were good for soup, that is to cook with meat to thicken it,"--and taught him how to
prepare them.[56] Josselyn mentions such "a water-lily, with yellow flowers," of which "the
Indians eat the roots" boiled.[57]

[Footnote 55: Acadian Geology, pp. 1, 3.]

[Footnote 56: Maine Woods, pp. 194, 284, 326.]

[Footnote 57: Voyages, p. 44.]

"Segoonuma-kaddy, place of gaspereaux; Gaspereau or Alewife River," "Boonamoo-kwoddy, Tom Cod
ground," and "Kata-kaddy, eel-ground,"--are given by Professor Dawson, on Mr. Rand's authority.
Segoonumak is the equivalent of Mass. and Narr. sequanamâuquock, 'spring (or early summer)
fish,' by R. Williams translated 'bream.' And boonamoo,--the ponamo of Charlevoix (i. 127),
who confounded it with some 'species of dog-fish (chien de mer),'--is the ap[oo]na[n]-mes[oo]
of Rasles and papônaumsu, 'winter fish,' of Roger Williams, 'which some call frost-fish,'--Morrhua
pruinosa.

The frequent occurrence of this termination in Micmac, Etchemin and Abnaki local names gives
probability to the conjecture, that it came to be regarded as a general name for the region
which these tribes inhabited,--'L'arcadia,' 'l'Accadie,' and 'la Cadie,' of early geographers
and voyagers. Dr. Kohl has not found this name on any earlier map than that published by Girolamo
Ruscelli in 1561.[58] That it is of Indian origin there is hardly room for doubt, and of two
or three possible derivations, that from the terminal -kâdi, -kodiah, or -ka[n]tti, is on the
whole preferable. But this termination, in the sense of 'place of abundance' or in that of
'ground, land, or place,' cannot be used separately, as an independent word, in any one of
the languages which have been mentioned; and it is singular that, in two or three instances,
only this termination should have been preserved after the first and more important component
of the name was lost.

[Footnote 58: See Coll. Me. Hist. Society, 2d Ser., vol. i. p. 234.]

There are two Abnaki words which are not unlike -ka[n]tti in sound, one or both of which may
perhaps be found in some local names: (1) ka[oo]di, 'where he sleeps,' a lodging place of men
or animals; and (2) ak[oo]daï[oo]i, in composition or as a prefix, ak[oo]dé, 'against the current,'
up-stream; as in ned-ak[oo]té'hémen, 'I go up stream,' and [oo]derak[oo]da[n]na[n], 'the fish
go up stream.' Some such synthesis may have given names to fishing-places on tidal rivers,
and I am more inclined to regard the name of 'Tracadie' or 'Tracody' as a corruption of [oo]derak[oo]da[n],
than to derive it (with Professor Dawson[59] and the Rev. Mr. Rand) from "Tulluk-kaddy; probably,
place of residence; dwelling place,"--or rather (for the termination requires this), where
residences or dwellings are plenty,--where there is abundance of dwelling place. There is a
Tracadie in Nova Scotia, another (Tregaté, of Champlain) on the coast of New Brunswick, a Tracody
or Tracady Bay in Prince Edward's Island, and a Tracadigash Point in Chaleur Bay.

[Footnote 59: Acadian Geology, l.c.]

Thevet, in La Cosmographie universelle,[60] gives an account of his visit in 1556, to "one
of the finest rivers in the whole world which we call Norumbegue, and the aborigines Agoncy,"--now
Penobscot Bay. In 'Agoncy' we have, I conjecture, another form of the Abnaki -ka[n]tti, and
an equivalent of 'Acadie.'

[Footnote 60: Cited by Dr. Kohl, in Coll. Me. Hist. Society, N.S., i. 416.]

       *       *       *       *       *

II. Names formed from a single ground-word or substantival,--with or without a locative or
other suffix.

To this class belong some names already noticed in connection with compound names to which
they are related; such as, Wachu-set, 'near the mountain;' Menahan (Menan), Manati, Manathaan,
'island;' Manataan-ung, Aquedn-et, 'on the island,' &c. Of the many which might be added to
these, the limits of this paper permit me to mention only a few.

1. NÂÏAG, 'a corner, angle, or point.' This is a verbal, formed from nâ-i, 'it is angular,'
'it corners.' Eliot wrote "yaue naiyag wetu" for the "four corners of a house," Job i. 19.
Sometimes, nâi receives, instead of the formative -ag, the locative affix (nâï-it or nâï-ut);
sometimes it is used as an adjectival prefixed to auke, 'land.' One or another of these forms
serves as the name of a great number of river and sea-coast 'points.' In Connecticut, we find
a 'Nayaug' at the southern extremity of Mason's Island in Mystic Bay, and 'Noank' (formerly
written, Naweag, Naiwayonk, Noïank, &c.) at the west point of Mystic River's mouth, in Groton;
Noag or Noyaug, in Glastenbury, &c. In Rhode Island, Nayatt or Nayot point in Barrington, on
Providence Bay, and Nahiganset or Narragansett, 'the country about the Point.'[61] On Long
Island, Nyack on Peconick Bay, Southampton,[62] and another at the west end of the Island,
opposite Coney Island. There is also a Nyack on the west side of the Tappan Sea, in New Jersey.

[Footnote 61: See Narragansett Club Publications, vol. i. p. 22 (note 6).]

[Footnote 62: On Block's Map, 1616, the "Nahicans" are marked on the easternmost point of Long
Island.]

2. WONKUN, 'bended,' 'a bend,' was sometimes used without affix. The Abnaki equivalent is [oo]a[n]ghíghen,
'courbe,' 'croché' (Râle). There was a Wongun, on the Connecticut, between Glastenbury and
Wethersfield, and another, more considerable, a few miles below, in Middletown. Wonki is found
in compound names, as an adjectival; as in Wonki-tuk, 'bent river,' on the Quinebaug, between
Plainfield and Canterbury,--written by early recorders, 'Wongattuck,' 'Wanungatuck,' &c., and
at last transferred from its proper place to a hill and brook west of the river, where it is
disguised as Nunkertunk. The Great Bend between Hadley and Hatfield, Mass., was called Kuppo-wonkun-ohk,
'close bend place,' or 'place shut-in by a bend.' A tract of meadow west of this bend was called,
in 1660, 'Cappowonganick,' and 'Capawonk,' and still retains, I believe, the latter name.[63]
Wnogquetookoke, the Indian name of Stockbridge, Mass., as written by Dr. Edwards in the Muhhecan
dialect, describes "a bend-of-the-river place."

[Footnote 63: Judd's History of Hadley, 115, 116, 117.]

Another Abnaki word meaning 'curved,' 'crooked,'--pika[n]ghén--occurs in the name Pika[n]ghenahik,
now 'Crooked Island,' in Penobscot River.[64]

[Footnote 64: Mr. Moses Greenleaf, in 1823, wrote this name, Bakungunahik.]

3. HÓCQUAUN (UHQUÔN, Eliot), 'hook-shaped,' 'a hook,'--is the base of Hoccanum, the name of
a tract of land and the stream which bounds it, in East Hartford, and of other Hoccanums, in
Hadley and in Yarmouth, Mass. Heckewelder[65] wrote "Okhúcquan, Woâkhúcquoan or (short) Húcquan,"
for the modern 'Occoquan,' the name of a river in Virginia, and remarked: "All these names
signify a hook." Campanius has 'hóckung' for 'a hook.'

[Footnote 65: On Indian names, in Trans. Am. Phil. Society, N.S., vol. iv., p. 377.]

Hackensack may have had its name from the húcquan-sauk, 'hook mouth,' by which the waters of
Newark Bay find their way, around Bergen Point, by the Kill van Cul, to New York Bay.

3.  SÓHK or SAUK, a root that denotes 'pouring out,' is the base of many local names for 'the
outlet' or 'discharge' of a river or lake. The Abnaki forms, sa[n]g[oo]k, 'sortie de la rivière
(seu) la source,' and sa[n]ghede'teg[oo]é [= Mass. saukituk,] gave names to Saco in Maine,
to the river which has its outflow at that place, and to Sagadahock (sa[n]ghede'aki), 'land
at the mouth' of Kennebeck river.

Saucon, the name of a creek and township in Northampton county, Penn., "denotes (says Heckewelder[66])
the outlet of a smaller stream into a larger one,"--which restricts the denotation too narrowly.
The name means "the outlet,"--and nothing more. Another Soh´coon, or (with the locative) Saukunk,
"at the mouth" of the Big Beaver, on the Ohio,--now in the township of Beaver, Penn.,--was
a well known rendezvous of Indian war parties.[67]

[Footnote 66: Ibid. p. 357.]

[Footnote 67: Paper on Indian Names, ut supra, p. 366; and 3 Mass. Historical Collections,
vi. 145. [Compare, the Iroquois Swa-deh´ and Oswa´-go (modern Oswego), which has the same meaning
as Alg. sauki,--"flowing out."--Morgan's League of the Iroquois.]]

Saganaum, Sagana, now Saginaw[68] Bay, on Lake Huron, received its name from the mouth of the
river which flows through it to the lake.

[Footnote 68: Saguinam, Charlevoix, i. 501; iii. 279.]

The Mississagas were people of the missi-sauk, missi-sague, or (with locative) missi-sak-ing,[69]
that is 'great outlet.' In the last half of the seventeenth century they were seated on the
banks of a river which is described as flowing into Lake Huron some twenty or thirty leagues
south of the Sault Ste. Marie (the same river probably that is now known as the Mississauga,
emptying into Manitou Bay,) and nearly opposite the Straits of Mississauga on the South side
of the Bay, between Manitoulin and Cockburn Islands. So little is known however of the history
and migrations of this people, that it is perhaps impossible now to identify the 'great outlet'
from which they first had their name.

[Footnote 69: Relations des Jésuites, 1658, p. 22; 1648, p. 62; 1671, pp. 25, 31.]

The Saguenay (Sagnay, Sagné, Saghuny, etc.), the great tributary of the St. Lawrence, was so
called either from the well-known trading-place at its mouth, the annual resort of the Montagnars
and all the eastern tribes,[70] or more probably from the 'Grand Discharge'[71] of its main
stream from Lake St. John and its strong current to and past the rapids at Chicoutimi, and
thence on to the St. Lawrence.[72] Near Lake St. John and the Grand Discharge was another rendezvous
of the scattered tribes. The missionary Saint-Simon in 1671 described this place as one at
which "all the nations inhabiting the country between the two seas (towards the east and north)
assembled to barter their furs." Hind's Exploration of Labrador, ii. 23.

[Footnote 70: Charlevoix, Nouv. France, iii. 65; Gallatin's Synopsis, p. 24.]

[Footnote 71: This name is still retained.]

[Footnote 72: When first discovered the Saguenay was not regarded as a river, but as a strait
or passage by which the waters of some northern sea flowed to the St. Lawrence. But on a French
map of 1543, the 'R. de Sagnay' and the country of 'Sagnay' are laid down. See Maine Hist.
Soc. Collections, 2d Series, vol. i., pp. 331, 354. Charlevoix gives Pitchitaouichetz, as the
Indian name of the River.]

In composition with -tuk, 'river' or 'tidal stream,' sauki (adjectival) gave names to 'Soakatuck,'
now Saugatuck, the mouth of a river in Fairfield county, Conn.; to 'Sawahquatock,' or 'Sawkatuck-et,'
at the outlet of Long Pond or mouth of Herring River, in Harwich, Mass.; and perhaps to Massaugatucket,
(missi-saukituk-ut?), in Marshfield, Mass., and in South Kingston, R.I.,--a name which, in
both places, has been shortened to Saquatucket.

'Winnipiseogee' (pronounced Win´ ni pe sauk´ e,) is compounded of winni, nippe, and sauki,
'good-water discharge,' and the name must have belonged originally to the outlet by which the
waters of the lake pass to the Merrimack, rather than to the lake itself. Winnepesauke, Wenepesioco
and (with the locative) Winnipesiockett, are among the early forms of the name. The translation
of this synthesis by 'the Smile of the Great Spirit' is sheer nonsense. Another, first proposed
by the late Judge Potter of New Hampshire, in his History of Manchester (p. 27),[73]--'the
beautiful water of the high place,'--is demonstrably wrong. It assumes that is or es represents
kees, meaning 'high;' to which assumption there are two objections: first, that there is no
evidence that such a word as kees, meaning 'high,' is found in any Algonkin language, and secondly,
that if there be such a word, it must retain its significant root, in any synthesis of which
it makes part,--in other words, that kees could not drop its initial k and preserve its meaning.
I was at first inclined to accept the more probable translation proposed by 'S.F.S.' [S.F.
Streeter?] in the Historical Magazine for August, 1857,[74]--"the land of the placid or beautiful
lake;" but, in the dialects of New England, nippisse or nips, a diminutive of nippe, 'water,'
is never used for paug, 'lake' or 'standing water;'[75] and if it were sometimes so used, the
extent of Lake Winnepiseogee forbids it to be classed with the 'small lakes' or 'ponds,' to
which, only, the diminutive is appropriate.

[Footnote 73: And in the Historical Magazine, vol. i. p. 246.]

[Footnote 74: Vol. i. p. 246.]

[Footnote 75: See pp. 14, 15.]

4. NASHAUÉ (Chip. nássawaiï and ashawiwi), 'mid-way,' or 'between,' and with ohke or auk added,
'the land between' or 'the half-way place,'--was the name of several localities. The tract
on which Lancaster, in Worcester county (Mass.) was settled, was 'between' the branches of
the river, and so it was called 'Nashaway' or 'Nashawake' (nashaué-ohke); and this name was
afterwards transferred from the territory to the river itself. There was another Nashaway in
Connecticut, between Quinnebaug and Five-Mile Rivers in Windham county, and here, too, the
mutilated name of the nashaue-ohke was transferred, as Ashawog or Assawog, to the Five-Mile
River. Natchaug in the same county, the name of the eastern branch of Shetucket river, belonged
originally to the tract 'between' the eastern and western branches; and the Shetucket itself
borrows a name (nashaue-tuk-ut) from its place 'between' Yantic and Quinebaug rivers. A neck
of land (now in Griswold, Conn.) "between Pachaug River and a brook that comes into it from
the south," one of the Muhhekan east boundaries, was called sometimes, Shawwunk, 'at the place
between,'--sometimes Shawwâmug (nashaué-amaug), 'the fishing-place between' the rivers, or
the 'half-way fishing-place.'[76]

[Footnote 76: Chandler's Survey and Map of the Mohegan country, 1705. Compare the Chip. ashawiwi-sitagon,
"a place from which water runs two ways," a dividing ridge or portage between river courses.
Owen's Geological Survey of Wisconsin, etc., p. 312.]

5. ASHIM, is once used by Eliot (Cant. iv. 12) for 'fountain.' It denoted a spring or brook
from which water was obtained for drinking. In the Abnaki, asiem nebi, 'il puise de l'eau;'
and ned-a'sihibe, 'je puise de l'eau, fonti vel fluvio.' (Rasles.)

Winne-ashim-ut, 'at the good spring,' near Romney Marsh, is now Chelsea, Mass. The name appears
in deeds and records as Winnisimmet, Winisemit, Winnet Semet, etc. The author of the 'New English
Canaan' informs us (book 2, ch. 8), that "At Weenasemute is a water, the virtue whereof is,
to cure barrennesse. The place taketh his name of that fountaine, which signifieth quick spring,
or quickning spring. Probatum."

Ashimuit or Shumuit, an Indian village near the line between Sandwich and Falmouth, Mass.,--Shaume,
a neck and river in Sandwich (the Chawum of Capt. John Smith?),--Shimmoah, an Indian village
on Nantucket,--may all have derived their names from springs resorted to by the natives, as
was suggested by the Rev. Samuel Deane in a paper in Mass. Hist. Collections, 2d Series, vol.
x. pp. 173, 174.

6. MATTAPPAN, a participle of mattappu (Chip. namátabi), 'he sits down,' denotes a 'sitting-down
place,' or, as generally employed in local names, the end of a portage between two rivers or
from one arm of the sea to another,--where the canoe was launched again and its bearers re-embarked.
Râle translates the Abnaki equivalent, mata[n]be, by 'il va au bord de l'eau,--a la grève pour
s'embarquer,' and meta[n]béniganik, by 'au bout de delà du portage.'

Mattapan-ock, afterwards shortened to Mattapan, that part of Dorchester Neck (South Boston)
where "the west country people were set down" in 1630,[77] may have been so called because
it was the end of a carrying place from South Bay to Dorchester Bay, across the narrowest part
of the peninsula, or--as seems highly probable--because it was the temporary 'sitting-down
place' of the new comers. Elsewhere, we find the name evidently associated with portage.

[Footnote 77: Blake's Annals of Dorchester, p. 9; Winthrop's Journal, vol. i. p. 28.]

On Smith's Map of Virginia, one 'Mattapanient' appears as the name of the northern fork (now
the Mattápony) of Pamaunk (York) River; another (Mattpanient) near the head waters of the Pawtuxunt;
and a third on the 'Chickahamania' not far above its confluence with Powhatan (James) River.

Mattapoiset, on an inlet of Buzzard's Bay, in Rochester, Mass.,--another Mattapoiset or 'Mattapuyst,'
now Gardner's Neck, in Swanzea,--and 'Mattapeaset' or 'Mattabesic,' on the great bend of the
Connecticut (now Middletown), derived their names from the same word, probably.

On a map of Lake Superior, made by Jesuit missionaries and published in Paris in 1672, the
stream which is marked on modern maps as 'Rivière aux Traines' or 'Train River,' is named 'R.
Mataban.' The small lake from which it flows is the 'end of portage' between the waters of
Lake Michigan and those of Lake Superior.

7. CHABENUK, 'a bound mark'; literally, 'that which separates or divides.' A hill in Griswold,
Conn., which was anciently one of the Muhhekan east bound-marks, was called Chabinu[n]k, 'Atchaubennuck,'
and 'Chabunnuck.' The village of praying Indians in Dudley (now Webster?) Mass., was named
Chabanakongkomuk (Eliot, 1668,) or -ongkomum, and the Great Pond still retains, it is said,
the name of Chaubenagungamaug (chabenukong-amaug?), "the boundary fishing-place." This pond
was a bound mark between the Nipmucks and the Muhhekans, and was resorted to by Indians of
both nations.

       *       *       *       *       *

III. Participials and verbals employed as place-names may generally, as was before remarked,
be referred to one or the other of the two preceding classes. The distinction between noun
and verb is less clearly marked in Indian grammar than in English. The name Mushauwomuk (corrupted
to Shawmut) may be regarded as a participle from the verb mushau[oo]m (Narr. mishoonhom) 'he
goes by boat,'--or as a noun, meaning 'a ferry,'--or as a name of the first class, compounded
of the adjectival mush[oo]-n, 'boat or canoe,' and wom[oo]-uk, habitual or customary going,
i.e., 'where there is going-by-boat.'

The analysis of names of this class is not easy. In most cases, its results must be regarded
as merely provisional. Without some clue supplied by history or tradition and without accurate
knowledge of the locality to which the name belongs, or is supposed to belong, one can never
be certain of having found the right key to the synthesis, however well it may seem to fit
the lock. Experience Mayhew writing from Chilmark on Martha's Vineyard, in 1722, gives the
Indian name of the place where he was living as Nimpanickhickanuh. If he had not added the
information that the name "signifies in English, The place of thunder clefts," and that it
was so called "because there was once a tree there split in pieces by the thunder," it is not
likely that any one in this generation would have discovered its precise meaning,--though it
might have been conjectured that neimpau, or nimbau, 'thunder,' made a part of it.

Quilútámende was (Heckewelder tells us[78]) the Delaware name of a place on the Susquehanna,
in Pennsylvania, where, as the Indians say, "in their wars with the Five Nations, they fell
by surprise upon their enemies. The word or name of this place is therefore, Where we came
unawares upon them, &c." Without the tradition, the meaning of the name would not have been
guessed,--or, if guessed, would not have been confidently accepted.

[Footnote 78: On Indian Names, in Trans. Am. Philos. Society, N.S. iv. 361.]

The difficulty of analyzing such names is greatly increased by the fact that they come to us
in corrupt forms. The same name may be found, in early records, written in a dozen different
ways, and some three or four of these may admit of as many different translations. Indian grammatical
synthesis was exact. Every consonant and every vowel had its office and its place. Not one
could be dropped or transposed, nor could one be added, without change of meaning. Now most
of the Indian local names were first written by men who cared nothing for their meaning and
knew nothing of the languages to which they belonged. Of the few who had learned to speak one
or more of these languages, no two adopted the same way of writing them, and no one--John Eliot
excepted--appears to have been at all careful to write the same word twice alike. In the seventeenth
century men took considerable liberties with the spelling of their own surnames and very large
liberty with English polysyllables--especially with local names. Scribes who contrived to find
five or six ways of writing 'Hartford' or 'Wethersfield,' were not likely to preserve uniformity
in their dealings with Indian names. A few letters more or less were of no great consequence,
but, generally, the writers tried to keep on the safe side, by putting in as many as they could
find room for; prefixing a c to every k, doubling every w and g, and tacking on a superfluous
final e, for good measure.

In some instances, what is supposed to be an Indian place-name is in fact a personal name,
borrowed from some sachem or chief who lived on or claimed to own the territory. Names of this
class are likely to give trouble to translators. I was puzzled for a long time by 'Mianus,'
the name of a stream between Stamford and Greenwich,--till I remembered that Mayano, an Indian
warrior (who was killed by Capt. Patrick in 1643) had lived hereabouts; and on searching the
Greenwich records, I found the stream was first mentioned as Moyannoes and Mehanno's creek,
and that it bounded 'Moyannoe's neck' of land. Moosup river, which flows westerly through Plainfield
into the Quinebaug and which has given names to a post-office and factory village, was formerly
Moosup's river,--Moosup or Maussup being one of the aliases of a Narragansett sachem who is
better known, in the history of Philip's war, as Pessacus. Heckewelder[79] restores 'Pymatuning,'
the name of a place in Pennsylvania, to the Del. 'Pihmtónink,' meaning, "the dwelling place
of the man with the crooked mouth, or the crooked man's dwelling place," and adds, that he
"knew the man perfectly well," who gave this name to the locality.

[Footnote 79: On Indian Names (ut supra), p. 365.]

Some of the examples which have been given,--such as Higganum, Nunkertunk, Shawmut, Swamscot
and Titicut,--show how the difficulties of analysis have been increased by phonetic corruption,
sometimes to such a degree as hardly to leave a trace of the original. Another and not less
striking example is presented by Snipsic, the modern name of a pond between Ellington and Tolland.
If we had not access to Chandler's Survey of the Mohegan Country, made in 1705, who would suppose
that 'Snipsic' was the surviving representative of Moshenupsuck, 'great-pond brook' or (literally)
'great-pond outlet,' at the south end of Moshenups or Mashenips 'great pond?' The territories
of three nations, the Muhhekans, Nipmucks and River Indians, ran together at this point.

'Nameroake,' 'Namareck' or 'Namelake,' in East Windsor, was transformed to May-luck, giving
to a brook a name which 'tradition' derives from the 'luck' of a party of emigrants who came
in 'May' to the Connecticut.[80] The original name appears to have been the equivalent of 'Nameaug'
or 'Nameoke' (New London), and to mean 'the fishing place,'--n'amaug or nama-ohke.

[Footnote 80: Stiles's History of Ancient Windsor, p. 111.]

But none of these names exhibits a more curious transformation than that of 'Bagadoose' or
'Bigaduce,' a peninsula on the east side of Penobscot Bay, now Castine, Me. Williamson's History
of Maine (ii. 572) states on the authority of Col. J. Wardwell of Penobscot, in 1820, that
this point bore the name of a former resident, a Frenchman, one 'Major Biguyduce.' Afterwards,
the historian was informed that 'Marche bagyduce' was an Indian word meaning 'no good cove.'
Mr. Joseph Williamson, in a paper in the Maine Historical Society's Collections (vol. vi. p.
107) identifies this name with the Matchebiguatus of Edward Winslow's quitclaim to Massachusetts
in 1644,[81] and correctly translates the prefix matche by 'bad,' but adds: "What Biguatus
means, I do not know." Purchas mentions 'Chebegnadose,' as an Indian town on the 'Apananawapeske'
or Penobscot.[82] Râle gives, as the name of the place on "the river where M. de Gastin [Castine]
is," Matsibig[oo]ad[oo]ssek, and on his authority we may accept this form as nearly representing
the original. The analysis now becomes more easy. Matsi-a[n]baga[oo]at-ek, means 'at the bad-shelter
place,--bad covert or cove;' and matsi-a[n]baga[oo]at[oo]s-ek the diminutive, 'at the small
bad-shelter place.' About two miles and a half above the mouth of the Kenebec was a place called
by the Indians 'Abagadusset' or 'Abequaduset'--the same name without the prefix--meaning 'at
the cove, or place of shelter.'

[Footnote 81: Printed in note to Savage's Winthrop's Journal, ii. 180.]

[Footnote 82: See Thornton's Ancient Pemaquid, in Maine Hist. Collections, v. 156.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The adjectivals employed in the composition of Algonkin names are very numerous, and hardly
admit of classification. Noun, adjective, adverb or even an active verb may, with slight change
of form, serve as a prefix. But, as was before remarked, every prefix, strictly considered,
is an adverb or must be construed as an adverb,--the synthesis which serves as a name having
generally the verb form. Some of the most common of these prefixes have been mentioned on preceding
pages. A few others, whose meanings are less obvious and have been sometimes mistaken by translators,
may deserve more particular notice.

1. POHQUI, POHQUAE´; Narr. pâuqui; Abn. p[oo]'k[oo]ié; 'open,' 'clear' (primarily, 'broken').
In composition with ohke, 'land,' or formed as a verbal in -aug, it denotes 'cleared land'
or 'an open place:' as in the names variously written 'Pahquioque,' 'Paquiaug;' 'Pyquaag;'
'Poquaig,' 'Payquaoge,' &c., in Danbury and Wethersfield, and in Athol, Mass.

2. PAHKE (Abn. pa[n]g[oo]i,) 'clear,' 'pure'. Found with paug, 'standing water' or 'pond,'
in such names as 'Pahcupog,' 'Paquabaug,' &c. See page 16.

3. PÂGUAN-AÜ, 'he destroys,' 'he slaughters' (Narr. paúquana, 'there is a slaughter') in composition
with ohke denotes 'place of slaughter' or 'of destruction,' and commemorates some sanguinary
victory or disastrous defeat. This is probably the meaning of nearly all the names written
'Poquannoc,' 'Pequannoc,' 'Pauganuck,' &c., of places in Bridgeport (Stratfield), Windsor and
Groton, Conn., and of a town in New Jersey. Some of these, however, may possibly be derived
from paukunni and ohke, 'dark place.'

4. PEMI (Abn. pemai-[oo]i; Del. pimé-u; Cree, peemé;) denotes deviation from a straight line;
'sloping,' 'aslant,' 'twisted.' PUMMEECHE (Cree, pimich; Chip. pemiji; Abn. pemetsi;) 'crosswise;
traverse.' Eliot wrote 'pummeeche may' for 'cross-way,' Obad. 14; and pumetshin (literally,
'it crosses') for 'a cross,' as in up-pumetshin-eum, 'his cross,' Luke xiv. 27. Pemiji-gome
or Pemiji-guma, 'cross water,' is the Chippewa name for a lake whose longest diameter crosses
the general course of the river which flows through it,--which stretches across, not with the
stream. There is such a lake in Minnesota, near the sources of the Mississippi, just below
the junction of the two primary forks of that river; another ('Pemijigome') in the chain of
small lakes which are the northern sources of the Manidowish (and Chippewa) River in Wisconsin,
and still another near the Lacs des Flambeaux, the source of Flambeau River, an affluent of
the Manidowish.

