The bushrangers were now reduced to three: Howe, Watts, and Browne. The last, surrendered;
but Watts conspired with a stock-keeper, named Drewe, to seize Howe. This man, when in charge
of his master's flock, occasionally corresponded with him. They accordingly met him, at a place
called Longbottom. Within one hundred yards of each other, these old companions in crime demanded,
and agreed, that both should knock out the priming of their guns: they then kindled a fire.
Watts threw Howe on the ground; Drewe tied his hands, and took his knives from his pocket:
they then prepared breakfast. After some delay, they proceeded to Hobart Town; Watts, with
his gun, walking before Howe, and Drewe behind him. The captive disengaged his hands, and,
with a knife he had concealed, stabbed Watts; and in an instant, seizing his gun, he shot Drewe
dead. Watts then expected a similar fate; he, however, reached Hobart Town, and was thence
forwarded to Sydney, where he died of his wounds.

The Lieutenant-Governor, anxious to end the career of this desperate man, offered, beside the
pecuniary reward, freedom and a passage to England to any prisoner, who might succeed in his
capture. Stratagems were continually devised to entrap him; but he retired into the distant
parts of the wood, only appearing when hunger or lack of ammunition compelled his visits. His
courage and skill made him a formidable antagonist: none would venture to face him; yet so
hot was the pursuit, that he again left behind his knapsack and ammunition. He continued at
large until the 21st October, 1818. Warburton, often an accomplice, became his betrayer: he
enticed him to a hut, where he said that he would find supplies necessary for subsistence;
and, notwithstanding his hesitation, which occasioned long delay, he was caught in the snare:
having discovered the ambush, he retreated with precipitation; but was overtaken, and slain.[89]

Howe was charged with several murders, beside those here recorded. It was the fashion of the
day, to admit every rumour of his cruelty. It was stated, on doubtful authority, that having
quarrelled with Edwards, a comrade, respecting some plunder, he slew him; that another, Bowles,
having discharged a pistol in sport near his person, suffered the same fate--that he tied the
hands and feet of the offender, and shot him dead. The death of Davenport, a stockman, without
much probability, was attributed to Howe: his remains were afterwards discovered, without confirming
the suspicion. The relations of these men naturally led to treachery and revenge, and in the
terms of their union retaliation was included. Howe kept the secret of his gang, and displayed
much sympathy when his companions were sick or wounded. He was a bold outlaw, prepared to maintain
his freedom at whatever cost; nor does it appear that he was wanting in those equivocal virtues,
which are compatible with a life of violence and guilt. His knapsack contained a record of
his dreams, written on kangaroo skin with blood; he was haunted by visions of his old companions
who were dead: the subject of one, was his sister. He had made a list of seeds, vegetables,
fruits, and even flowers, intended to adorn the seclusion which he contemplated. Howe's form
was athletic, his countenance strongly marked; his beard of an extraordinary length, and he
was dressed in the skin of kangaroo.[90]

Five years after his death, Howe's dwelling was found. The site was chosen with taste, in an
open undulating country, stretching to the western mountains: the spot was secluded from observation,
was covered with a large honeysuckle, and on a rise sloping to the stream. A gigantic tree,
prostrate, which he used as a chopping block, was the boundary to which he permitted Warburton
to approach.[91]

The privation, fatigue, and anxiety endured by the bushrangers, they have often depicted with
horror. The country, destitute of indigenous fruits or herbs, afforded no safe retreat; and
they were compelled to hover round the inhabited districts to obtain ammunition, even when
willing to live by the chase. The increase of the settlers has long prevented protracted concealment,
and multiplied the chances of capture. Prompted by passion, or allured by the fascination of
liberty, an unbroken succession of adventurers have sought shelter in the bush, and passed
through the miseries of a vagrant life; but their suppression has usually been easy, and for
years the penalty of their crimes certain.

In the progress of these memorials, allusions to bushrangers must occur; but the records of
crime are disgusting. The Italian robber tinged his adventure with romance; the Spanish bandit
was often a soldier, and a partisan; but the wandering thieves of Tasmania were not less uncouth
than violent--hateful for their debasement, as well as terrible for their cruelty. They can
rarely be objects of interest, save when points in their career illustrate principles, or exhibit
traits in contrast with their ordinary course. It may be proper to notice instances of courage,
of constancy, or of unusual suffering: they may set forth the social state out of which they
have arisen, and thus the operation of systems; but who would delight to read the dull details
of wickedness which crowd the annals of this country?

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 86: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 87: The following are some that require no key:--Murderers' Plains, Killman Point,
Hell Corner, Murderers' Tiers, Four Square Gallows, Dunne's Look-out, Brady's Look-out, and
Lemon's Lagoon.]

[Footnote 88: A more singular instance occurred during the rule of Colonel Davey. A reformed
bushranger was dispatched to treat with a young man who had absconded from the commissariat:
he resolved to accompany the messenger into the presence of the Governor; but he went armed.
The kind old man received him with some rough salutation; but having discovered his pistol,
he asked what was the meaning of that? In reply, he stated that he had resolved to shoot the
messenger, if he found treachery--a precaution, which rather amused than offended the gallant
commander. This statement, made by a survivor of the scene, is a curious relic of government.]

[Footnote 89: "JACK WORRALL.--He was entrapped into the mutiny of the Nore, but the only part
which he took in the proceedings, was writing out in a fair hand several papers for the mutineers;
and this he declared he did for no other purpose than to indulge his own vanity, in displaying
his fine writing, upon which he had highly valued himself. He was tried after the surrender
of the mutineers, and transported for life to Van Diemen's Land. 'I was now,' said he, 'determined
to make a push for the capture of this villain, Mick Howe, for which I was promised a passage
to England in the next ship that sailed, and the amount of the reward laid upon his head. I
found out a man of the name of Warburton, who was in the habit of hunting kangaroos for their
skins, and who had frequently met Howe during his excursions, and sometimes furnished him with
ammunition. He gave me such an account of Howe's habits, that I felt convinced we could take
him with a little assistance. I therefore spoke to a man of the name of Pugh, belonging to
the 48th regiment--one whom I knew was a most cool and resolute fellow. He immediately entered
into my views, and having applied to Major Bell, his commanding officer, he was recommended
by him to the Governor, by whom I was permitted to act, and allowed to join us; so he and I
went directly to Warburton, who heartily entered into the scheme, and all things were arranged
for putting it into execution. The plan was thus:--Pugh and I were to remain in Warburton's
hut, while Warburton himself was to fall into Howe's way. The hut was on the river Shannon,
standing so completely by itself, and so out of the track of any body who might be feared by
Howe, that there was every probability of accomplishing our wishes, and 'scotch the snake'--as
they say--if not kill it. Pugh and I accordingly proceeded to the appointed hut: we arrived
there before day-break, and having made a hearty breakfast, Warburton set out to seek Howe.
He took no arms with him, in order to still more effectually carry his point; but Pugh and
I were provided with muskets and pistols. The sun had been just an hour up, when we saw Warburton
and Howe upon the top of a hill, coming towards the hut. We expected they would be with us
in a quarter of an hour, and so we sat down upon the trunk of a tree inside the hut, calmly
waiting their arrival. An hour passed, but they did not come, so I crept to the door cautiously
and peeped out--there I saw them standing, within a hundred yards of us, in earnest conversation;
as I learned afterwards, the delay arose from Howe's suspecting that all was not right. I drew
back from the door to my station, and in about ten minutes after this we plainly heard footsteps,
and the voice of Warburton; another moment, and Howe slowly entered the hut--his gun presented
and cocked. The instant he espied us, he cried out, 'Is that your game?'--and immediately fired;
but Pugh's activity prevented the shot from taking effect, for he knocked the gun aside. Howe
ran off like a wolf. I fired but missed. Pugh then halted and took aim at him, but also missed.
I immediately flung away the gun and ran after Howe. Pugh also pursued; Warburton was a considerable
distance away. I ran very fast--so did Howe; and if he had not fallen down an unexpected bank,
I should not have been fleet enough for him. This fall, however, brought me up with him; he
was on his legs, and preparing to climb a broken bank, which would have given him a free run
into the wood, when I presented my pistol at him, and desired him to stand: he drew forth another,
but did not level it at me. We were about fifteen yards from each other--the bank he fell from
between us. He stared at me with astonishment, and to tell you the truth, I was a little astonished
at him, for he was covered with patches of kangaroo skins, and wore a black beard--a haversack
and powder horn slung across his shoulders. I wore my beard also--as I do now: and a curious
pair we looked like. After a moment's pause, he cried out, 'Black beard against grey beard
for a million!'--and fired: I slapped at him, and I believe hit him, for he staggered; but
rallied again, and was clearing the bank between him and me, when Pugh ran up, and with the
butt end of his firelock knocked him down again, jumped after him, and battered his brains
out, just as he was opening a clasp knife to defend himself.'"--The Military Sketch Book.]

[Footnote 90: This account is taken from the Sydney Gazettes, quoted by Wentworth; Commissioner
Bigge's Reports, and Bent's Life of Howe.]

[Footnote 91: Bent, the government printer, published a pamphlet in 1818, entitled, "Michael
Howe: the last and worst of the Bushrangers." This pamphlet was reviewed by the Quarterly;
"it is," observes the reviewer, "the greatest literary curiosity that has come before us--the
first child of the press of a state only fifteen years old. It would, of course, be re-printed
here; but our copy, penes nos, is a genuine Caxton. This little book would assuredly be the
Reynarde Foxe of Australian bibliomaniacs."--1820.]

SECTION VII.

It was the policy of the local government to relieve the crown from that class of prisoners
who were incapable of useful labor on the public works. The settlers from Norfolk Island, who
had acquired their liberty, or fulfilled their military service, became the employers of prisoners:
many of the masters, in their principles and habits, did not differ from their men--frequently,
their accomplices and sharers of their spoil. Those engaged in the interior, in tending the
flocks and herds, were often paid in proportion to the increase, and beside the property of
their masters, they had charge of their own. This system, fraught with mischief, continued
for many years, in spite of the interdicts of the government, and the fatal results exhibited
in the courts of justice. Cattle and sheep stealing were carried to an astonishing extent:
the owners, ignorant sometimes of the amount of their wealth, confided its safety to men incapable
of resisting ordinary temptation. The more opulent estimated their annual loss at one-fifth
of the increase; and in unfavorable situations, where many cotters were established, they found
the preservation of their stock impossible, and relinquished the attempt in despair.[92] The
brand was obliterated, often with great ingenuity: the I became H, C was turned into G, and
P into B; the more daring, blotted out all brands, by a heated shovel. Stock yards were enclosed
and hidden by the bush, where cattle were slaughtered, and sheep by scores were salted down.
Ewes were driven into the interior until their lambs were weaned, when they were returned to
their owners. In supplying the commissariat, it was not unusual to drive a flock of sheep for
inspection, which were again returned to the fold, and others from a stolen stock passed under
the certificate thus obtained; and the plunder of the royal herds, were slaughtered and sold
to the crown.

Such depredations were enormous: large gangs were in combination, and the first session held
in Van Diemen's Land, brought to light extensive robberies, comprehending twelve hundred sheep.[93]
These evils were encouraged by difficulties in the administration of justice. For five years,
fifteen charges only were tried by the court of criminal jurisdiction in New South Wales: the
prosecutor, the witnesses, and the prisoners were forwarded together. On one occasion, six
were sent up for trial: the skins of the stolen beasts were deposited in a cask, and the proof
was deemed complete; but of the same cooperage, another was prepared, an admirable imitation.
This last was opened in court, but it was found filled with the skins of seals; and, by the
ingenious transformation, the prosecution was satisfied.

It is just to observe, that the absence of legal redress not only prompted, but extenuated
these violations of law: crime retaliated crime: the lower settlers carried on a system of
plunder; but the uncertain tenure of property weakened that moral principle which is its surest
defence. The cattle stealer was himself a loser by the man he robbed: a stray beast was branded
without question; the owner, when he discovered that his property was beyond his reach, except
by the prosecution of the robber, adopted a shorter course. Reprisals thus lost half their
guilt: nor is it wonderful that such feelings, as borderers were said once to cherish, prevailed
among men who found excuses in their position, and indemnified their past or possible losses
by the first spoil which came in their way.

But these combinations led to other crimes. The robbers had their accomplices and abettors:
the theft complete, they grew suspicious of each other, and some who disappeared, were sacrificed
by the jealousy of their companions. When engaged in these depredations, they usually set a
watch: a cautious traveller avoided inquiry, and well authenticated instances proved how perilous,
in those days of violence, was an expression of curiosity or suspicion.

To stop these plundering habits, the King's Commissioner Bigge advised a periodical sitting
of the court in Van Diemen's Land. In 1821, Judge Wylde visited this country, and for various
crimes, twenty-five persons were condemned to death, of whom ten were executed. One hundred
and sixteen persons were incarcerated prior to his arrival--a large proportion, compared with
the census (7,372); but two years after, the number charged with similar offences proved that
crime was not abated. Among those who suffered death was George Richardson: his case illustrated
the process by which such felonies were perpetuated. Formerly the confidential servant of Colonel
Davey, he was employed by Dr. Scott, and had charge of his flock--himself being an owner of
stock. Having received an order to supply Doctor Spence a quantity of sheep, he deliberately
separated them from a neighbour's flock, and drove them to their destination, with the coolness
proper to an ordinary transaction. The proof of guilt was too clear to be affected by artifice,
though calculated to elude suspicion by its very deliberation. Nor is it difficult, when examining
the criminal records of those times, to suppose, that the trepidation natural when violating
the law, was overcome by the indifference of habit.

Few of the higher classes, it may be presumed, connived at these nefarious transactions: one
memorable instance, proved that no class is absolutely safe in an atmosphere of guilt. A settler,
connected with a Scottish family of great respectability, thus forfeited his life. It was stated
that his robberies were incessant, and that he leagued with bushrangers; to whom, perhaps constrained
by fear, he gave notice of danger by signals. A secluded sheep-yard was discovered, and a large
sheep brand, of a remarkable shape: at a distance, four hundred sheep were found, bearing the
mark newly made, which was contrived to obliterate the brand of Mr. Jones, the owner. The culprit
had prepared this flock, to transfer to another person, to whom a number were due. It was in
vain that witnesses testified to his character and to the respectability of his house: the
jury pronounced him guilty, and he was executed. A friend, who accompanied him to the scaffold,
heard him say, that that moment was the most happy of his life! It doubtless brought deliverance.
He left behind an infant family, the last of whom was born while the father was in prison,
and an aged parent in Scotland; who, long after he was dead, indulged her maternal tenderness,
by preparing clothing for his use, and hoping for tidings of his prosperity. His name is suppressed,
lest even now the record of his fate might meet the eye of a mourner.

Society, as it then existed, nourished every species of crime: tattered promissory notes, of
small amount and doubtful parentage, fluttered about the colony: dumps, struck out from dollars,
were imitated by a coin prepared without requiring much mechanical ingenuity; and plate, stolen
by bushrangers and burglars, was melted down and disposed of in a similar form.

Nothing was neglected: they burnt the implements of husbandry for the iron; they robbed the
gibbet of the chains: they even wrenched the plate from the coffin of an opulent merchant,
and stripped him of his shroud.[94]

In looking at the origin of the population, and the various inducements continually offered
to the perpetration of wickedness, the total dissolution of manners is no subject of surprise.
It was, perhaps, but a small aggravation, that prostitution and concubinage were held too venial
for remark: many of the officers of government made no secret of their relation to the women
whom they adopted as mistresses, and sometimes respected as wives. Among the anomalies of the
day, was the release of such females from compulsory attendance on divine worship, on account
of the official preference they enjoyed--a curious immunity from a penal obligation: to be
taken, perhaps, as a sinister acknowledgment, that the government was not insensible to virtue--as
the Russian courtezan extinguishes the candle of ceremony, and veils her patron saint.[95]

Sorell, on his accession to the government, attempted to reform the more flagrant abuses by
which he was surrounded: he was aided in his task by Mr. Humphrey, a man superior, by education
and habit, to many charged with similar duties. He established an exact register of the conviction,
arrival, and distribution of the prisoners, and appointed times for the muster of such as were
assigned. He imposed some restrictions on their wandering habits, and required that those who
employed them should answer for their residence. It was the custom, however, to allow the greater
part to reside in lodgings provided by themselves; they thus spent their leisure time where
they were exposed to perpetual temptation, and nightly robberies attested their diligence.
The traders of Hobart Town, for several years, were compelled to sleep on their counters, and
watch their property with the most scrupulous care: an inquiry who had been pillaged, became
the ordinary morning salutation. The thieves broke through the walls with oriental skill: a
stormy night afforded them a harvest. During a tempest of extraordinary severity, which deluged
the streets and carried away fences, they contrived to pillage to a great amount; a ladder
was discovered at a window, constructed for the purpose, by which they ascended to the upper
chamber, and thus proved that no elevation was safe. Nor did they confine their ravages to
the towns; they entered the store of a settler, and stripped his dwelling of £400 worth of
goods, which they conveyed by boat to Hobart Town. Many were living without any lawful means
of subsistence, and as their numbers increased, fraud and robbery were perpetrated in every
house, and at every hour of the day.

Such was the state of the colony at the close of Sorell's administration, who found that without
the means of nightly restraint, all regulations of police were in vain. On resigning office,
he predicted the difficulties of his successor, and warned him that he must expect to contend
with increasing crime.[96] To estimate the merit of Arthur's government, it is necessary to
remember those evils--with what difficulty authority, long relaxed, is recovered--even by the
most skilful and vigorous hands. When a few years had elapsed, the security of the colony was
a subject of universal astonishment; and it was boasted, that men slept with their doors unlocked,
and their windows unfastened, and often with property to a large amount strewed around their
dwellings; notwithstanding, a dangerous temerity. By what means these results were, even partially
attained, the reader will be curious to know.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 92: Curr's account.]

[Footnote 93:

Session (Judge Wylde), 1821. +--------+--------------------+----------------------+ | Cases.
|  Sheep in question.|      Owner.          | +--------+--------------------+----------------------+
|   1    |        300         |   William Watterson. | |   2    |        100         |   Ditto.
| |   3    |        250         |   Daniel Stansfield. | |   4    |        150         |  
Robert Gillet.     | |   5    |        200         |   Samuel Clements.   | |   6    |    
100         |   Edward Lord.       | |   7    |         60         |   Crown.             |
+--------+--------------------+----------------------+

Some of these robbers suffered death: others are still in the land of the living; and their
names are suppressed, on the presumption of their reform.--Compiled from Gazettes.]

[Footnote 94: Mr. Birch.]

[Footnote 95: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 96: "I entered upon the government, at a moment which my predecessor considered a
most eventful one. Circumstances, connected with convict population, which it would not be
prudent for me to dwell upon in this place, co-operated to render it probable, in the opinion
of Colonel Sorell, that crime would rapidly increase."--George Arthur, 1825.]

SECTION VIII.

It will be proper, however, first to retrace the penal history of these settlements, and to
mark the incidents which moulded their form, and contributed to their failure or success. The
administration of the penal laws cannot be understood, except by a broad and continuous survey.
The developments of one colony re-acted on the other: Van Diemen's Land, long the satellite
of New South Wales, attended all its motions, and with it prospered or suffered. From the fortunes
of that colony, the history of Tasmania is inseparable.

The evils described, were not of a recent origin; they may be traced from the commencement
of penal colonisation: the journals of the first officers exhibit all sorts of mischief, which
only entered into new combinations as times advanced, and property was diffused. Collins, whose
account descended to the close of the century, records a perpetual struggle with vice and crime.
What could be expected of men who burned their gaol at the risk of their lives, and the church
to escape attendance on worship?

The first expiree, James Rouse, who was established (1790) as a settler, was industrious and
successful. Phillip, anxious to test the competence of the land to sustain a cultivator, cleared
two acres for this man, erected his hut, and supplied him with food. Fifteen months after,
he relinquished his claim on the King's stores, and received thirty acres of land, in reward
for his diligence. It thus became common to afford similar facilities to expiree convicts,[97]
but generally in vain.

The solicitude of Phillip was displayed in every form of kindness; but the proneness of his
subjects to intemperance, defeated all his efforts: he gave them stock; and had scarcely left
the land, when his gifts were sold for rum. His successor was not more successful, when he
tried the same plan. Cargoes of American spirit produced the madness of intoxication; and the
freed settlers neglected their farms, or anticipated their produce to obtain the liquid destruction.
Their passion for gaming was universal: they sometimes staked not only their money and their
goods, but even their clothing, and were seen to labor in the field, as free from clothing
as the savages who surrounded them.

In spite of the dread of famine, they consumed their time and substance in intemperance: sold
their seed, lent to insure their harvest. In the distribution of stores, robberies were daily
committed; double rations were issued; and Collins ingenuously confesses, that office converted
the most trusty into thieves; and that peculations were forgiven, because a change of agency
was useless. All in superior circumstances, unprotected by military vigilance, were robbed
and robbed again. Missionaries, who fled from Tahiti, found their countrymen more savage than
strangers: one was wounded, and plundered of all his property; and another, murdered with an
axe, while writing a receipt for a payment, which his destroyer thus hoped to evade. The Governor,
in an imploring tone, enumerated the robberies which every day occurred, and hoped that the
constables, in whose presence they were committed, did not profit by such crimes! Those who
obtained their freedom, were a source of infinite annoyance: unable to depart from the country,
they refused all kinds of labor; and, joined with others equally worthless, astonished the
officers by the vigour and ingenuity of their spoliations.

