The same earthquake which destroyed Port Royal, almost ruined the island. Whole plantations
changed their places. The mountains were strangely torn and rent. In many parts the immense
accumulation of earth fallen from the mountains choked up the course of the streams for twenty-four
hours, and when at last they burst their way through, they bore down on their swollen floods
thousands of trunks of trees, branchless and barkless, to the sea. The gorge of the Bocaguas,
through which the Rio Cobre winds in a glorious succession of cascades and whirling pools,
is said to have been entirely filled up, causing the waters to overspread the upland basin
of St. Thomas-in-the-Vale with a lake, which lasted nine days before the waters tore loose
from their confinement, and swept over the plains to the ocean. There was evidence of a slight
subsidence over the whole island. The earthquake of 1692 is undoubtedly the most desolating
convulsion of nature which has ever befallen any portion of the English race.

For generations after the destruction of Port Royal, it was affirmed that the spires and housetops
of the sunken city could be discerned on a clear day through the waters of the harbor. Even
now there is a floating belief that they may occasionally be dimly descried, though I have
never been able to ascertain whether it is worthy of credit.

Since then, although there are often shocks of earthquake, sometimes several in a year, and
though some have occurred quite destructive to property, there has been none to divide with
that of 1692 its awful preeminence of desolation. It is true, we know not at what time such
a one may come, and it has been truly said that 'this beautiful island may be regarded as a
gorgeous carpet spread over the deeply charged mines of a volcano.' Hurricanes, though very
much less frequent than in the Windward Islands, have yet left their traces in the annals of
Jamaica. Particularly noted are those of the 28th of August, 1712, of the 28th of August, 1722,
and the series which, with the exception of two years, annually ravaged the island from 1780
to 1786 inclusive. It was in one of these that the town of Savanna-la-Mar was so completely
overwhelmed by the sea, driven over it by the force of the wind, that when the flood rolled
back to its home, not the slightest vestige of the place was discernible. In such a region
the petition of the Litany, as it is here offered, 'From lightning, tempest, and earthquake,
good Lord, deliver us,' falls on the stranger's ear with unwontedly solemn force.

The awful magnificence of these convulsions of nature is in strange contrast with the insignificance
of the record of human actions in this island. Not that Jamaica was an insignificant member
of the empire. Far from it. The teeming source of wealth, she was, on the contrary, during
the whole of the eighteenth century, continually increasing in importance. Even dukes were
glad to leave England to assume the princely state of a governor of Jamaica. Six hundred thousand
African slaves were introduced during the last century, of which number something over half
remained at the beginning of this. Human blood flowed in fertilizing streams over the island,
and out of this ghastly compost rose an opulence so splendid as to silence for generations
all inquiry into its origin or character. It secured its possessors not only easy access, but
frequent intermarriages among the aristocracy of England, who thus in time came to be among
the largest West Indian slaveholders. Jamaica was justly reckoned one of the brightest jewels
in the British crown. But the brilliancy was merely that of wealth, and as the ownership of
this was transferred more and more to Great Britain, the island itself at length came to be
of little more independent account than an outlying estate. Petty squabbles between the governors
and the Assembly, occasional negro conspiracies, soon suppressed and cruelly punished, and
the wearying contests with the remaining negroes, who, under the name of Maroons, long maintained
a harassing warfare from their mountain fastnesses, and yielded at last to favorable terms,
are almost all that fills the chronicles of the colony.

The island society, unrelieved by any eminence of genius or virtue, or by the stir of great
public interests, presented little more than a dull monotony of sensuality and indolence, on
a ground of inhumanity. It is no wonder that Zachary Macaulay, from his experience in Jamaica
as the superintendent of an estate, formed in quiet sternness that resolution to devote his
life to uprooting a social system whose presiding divinities he saw to be Mammon and Moloch,
which he afterward so nobly fulfilled. The graces and virtues of private character that lent
some relief to this dreary picture, I shall speak of hereafter.

One relief to the prevailing dulness of Jamaica life was found in a bar of first-rate talent.
There was so much wealth passing from hand to hand, and so many disputed titles in the continual
mutations of ownership among the estates under the reckless system of conducting them prevalent,
that the disciples of the law found a rich harvest, and it was worth while for a first-rate
man to settle in the island. It is thought that the lawyers of Jamaica used to receive not
less than £500,000 annually. Whether this was reckoned in sterling money or in the island currency,
I do not know, but probably the latter, equivalent to £300,000 sterling. Of men not lawyers,
Bryant Edwards is the only one of the last century or the early part of this of any note whatever
among those permanently settled in the island. His chief claim to distinction is found in his
carefully prepared and judicious 'History of the West Indies.' Beckford, the author of 'Vathek,'
and Monk Lewis, christened Matthew, the patent ghost-story teller of half a century ago, and
more honorably connected with the history of the island as a proprietor, whose inexperienced
kindness toward his negroes had almost led to his prosecution, both resided in the island for
a while. Jamaica had almost drawn to herself a name far more illustrious than any or all which
had appeared in her annals--that of Robert Burns. It is known that he had already engaged his
passage to the island, when the course of events turned him from it. He celebrates his expected
departure in some verses more witty than moral, in which he addresses our islanders as follows:

  'Jamaica bodies, use him weel,
  And hap him in a cosy biel,
  Ye'll find him aye a dainty chiel,
    And fu' of glee;
  He wadna wrang the very deil,
    That's ower the sea.'

Poor fellow! had he really gone, the admonition to 'Jamaica bodies' to 'use him weel,' would
probably have been obeyed by making him drink himself to death ten or twelve years earlier
than he did in Dumfries, and thus would one of earth's great, though stained names, have been
lost in the inglorious darkness of a Jamaica bookkeeper's short life, as many a young countryman
of his, perhaps not less gifted than he, had perished before him.

Among the distinguished personages of Jamaica, I ought not to omit mention of the Duke of Manchester,
governor soon after the beginning of this century, who was able to boast that no virtuous woman
had crossed the threshold of the King's House in Spanishtown during his administration. So
that if Jamaica has never had her parc-aux-cerfs, she can at least boast her Regent Orleans.
There is small need of any special parc-aux-cerfs in a slaveholding country.[22]

In brief, except a certain interest attached to the struggles of the barbarous Maroons to maintain
their wild freedom in the woods and mountains, the human history of Jamaica, from the English
conquest in 1655 to the abolition of slavery in 1834, is little more than a monotonous blank.

She had a vigorous bar, a sumptuous church establishment, and boundless, though shifting wealth.
But all these together, smitten as they were with the palsy of voluptuousness and oppression,
had not the power to bring forth one great name, to achieve one heroic deed, or on the other
hand, to foster any growth of humble, diffused happiness. Her sin, plated with gold, dazzled
the eyes and confounded the consciences of men, but, like the ornaments of a sepulchre, it
only beautified outwardly what within was full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness.

Those events of her history which bear on the abolition of slavery will be specially noticed
hereafter.

THE DEVELOPMENT OF AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE.

The rule held, anciently, that a nation's architecture was the exponent of its national character,
growing with and out of its social, civil, and religious peculiarities, and modified by climate,
habit, and taste. In those early ages, the halcyon days of the art, men built with a purpose,
built what they wanted in a natural and appropriate way, and--built successfully. So true was
this, that to this day, most of their relics proclaim their own origin, just as fossils determine
the relative positions of their enclosing strata, and history owes to architecture the solution
of many of her hardest problems. The ancient Egyptians, for instance, gloried in the erection
of the most magnificent tombs that their genius could produce, and, ruined as they are, we
find that it is in their sepulchral monuments--the rock-wrought mausoleum, and the stupendous
pyramid--that their art-current found its readiest flow. Compare these with the light and graceful
structures of the Moors, the cool, arcaded courts, and the tesselated pavements, the orange
trees, and the fountains. 'But no comparison,' says Fergusson, 'is applicable to objects so
totally different. Each is a true representative of the feeling and character of the people
by whom it was raised. The plaster Alhambra would be totally out of place and contemptible
beside the great temple-palace of Karnak. No less would the granite works of Egypt be considered
monuments of ill-directed labor if placed in the palace of the gay and luxurious Arab fatalist,
to whom the present was everything, and with whom the enjoyment of the passing hour was all
in all.'

Still another idea, grander than any aspiration of Saracen or Egyptian, we find, when Europe,
slowly shaking off the lethargy of the Dark Ages, was developing the idea of religion. It was
material, however, as well as spiritual. God was glorified, not only by repentance or holiness
of life, but also by the devotion of hand and heart and fortune to His earthly temples and
the jewelled shrines of His saints. All that impetus which is now given to religion itself,
was turned into the channels of religious art. And yet, temporally speaking, how grand were
the results! Slowly but surely arose those vast and wonderful cathedrals, springing lightly
out of the quaintly gabled streets, with their richly wrought transepts and their pinnacled
spires. Not trailing along the ground like the Greek temple or the Arab mosque--of the earth,
earthy--but leading the soul heavenward with their upward flow of harmony. Vast Bibles of stone,
bearing on lofty façade and on buttressed flank the sculptured details of Holy Writ--silent
lessons, but not lost upon the rude though reverent men who dwelt within their shadow. It is
sad to think that there can never be any more cathedrals. For they grew in those times: now
they would have to be built.

But we are following a tangent. Our idea is, that architecture, to be good, must be appropriate--expressive
of the spirit of the age. It should be an epitome of the nation's progress, an abstract of
its guiding principles, condensed, as it were, and crystallized into an art. Of what use would
a garment be, though ever so elaborate, if it did not fit? Just so our houses, which are but
a broader kind of clothing, should be fitted to their purpose, or they will never yield us
any pleasure.

Suppose that, in searching the ruins of ancient Greece, we found nothing but pusillanimous,
sham imitations of Egyptian art. Would we not despise such a paltry method of making matter
serve for mind--such a miserable make-shift to save the labor of invention? And yet it is this
same servile imitation of classical and foreign models that is fettering the progress of art
in America. Instead of honestly constructing what we want, and then decorating it with a style
of ornament that should assist, explain, and intensify it, we go wandering off to the ends
of the earth, building Grecian temples and Veronese palaces, some entire and some in slices,
dreary, indefinite-looking objects, devoid of all constructive principles within, and ornamented
with falsified gewgaws without, stuck on in the hope of hiding rather than helping out the
flimsy design. Our 'national style' we are sure can never be born of any such travesties. Borrowed
architecture never fits well.

The fact is, we ignore the first great principle--the essence and sine qua non, of the art--DECORATED
CONSTRUCTION. By construction is meant that mechanical arrangement of parts which is best suited
to convenience and most conducive to stability. It is what the French would call the motif,
the end in view, while decoration is only the means. And the moment we lose sight of it, in
our anxiety to make room for some pet ornament, that very ornament becomes an eyesore, and
will persist in spoiling the design, for the simple reason that the end is sacrificed to the
means. Set it down, then, at the start, that ornament must be dependent upon construction,
and not construction upon ornament. The useful begets the beautiful, and the order cannot be
reversed.

But before proceeding to what American architecture might be, we must, in all fairness, examine
it as it is.

Our great cities, of course, claim our attention first, for these centres of wealth and intellect
must necessarily be centres of art, and there, if at all, are we to discover our prospects
for a national style. As a single example of what it has attained to so far, nothing can be
better suited to our purpose than Broadway, New York, our best-known and most essentially American
thoroughfare. But what to compare it to we know not. Neither history nor geography affords
a parallel. It resembles neither the London Strand nor the Parisian Boulevard, nor is it like
the Ludwig Strasse of Munich, nor the Grand Canal of Venice; and yet it has something or other
in common with all of these. There is all the incongruity of the English thoroughfare and the
brilliancy of the French, while the frequent succession of vast palatial structures allies
it still closer to the last-named examples. Perhaps, after all, the Grand Canal--the silent
highway of the City of the Sea--is more like it in general effect than any other street in
Europe. The one, it is true, is as straight as an airline, and the other nearly the shape of
an S; the one a paved roadway, noisy with the rush of traffic, and, in the other, the water
washing the very walls of palaces that are mournful and deserted--while, as regards style,
there is scarcely a single specimen of the Venetian in this country.

But the resemblance is this: your prevailing impression from first to last is the absence of
all general arrangement, and the independent elegance of each separate façade. Each tells the
same story: it is the wealth and enterprise of the citizen, and not the munificence of the
sovereign, that has added palace to palace, and made the dumb stones eloquent. Remembering,
then, that it is private taste and influence that is to develop our art, we proceed to the
analysis of the great thoroughfare in question.

Fancy yourself, patient reader, at one end of this street, so as to command its vista. What
do you see? Architecture? Very little, we imagine. Save the buildings immediately at your right
and left, all the others are seen in profile, a contingency never reckoned on by their builders.
The decoration is all piled on the front, as elaborate a design, often, as Palladio ever dreamt
of, but at the side, every cornice and stringpiece stops as short as if it had been sawn off,
and the whole side is a flat blank piece of brickwork. This is greatly aggravated by the disparity
in height, and the ponderous cornices. As to construction, the prevailing type is a flimsy
pile of brick and timber, 'put up,' apparently, by mutual connivance of the contractor and
the coroner, and screened off from the street by a thin veneer of 'architecture.' Now there
is a certain merit, sui generis, in a clever deception, but those in vogue here are too utterly
transparent to claim even this. The telltale wall of brick cheats you out of the pleasure of
cheating yourself, no matter how charitably disposed.

Were it necessary to represent this street upon the stage, the decorator would simply have
to paint his scenes upon the edges, and leave the side toward the audience bare. As you walk
along you see a given building sideways for five minutes or more, but you cannot see it as
it was meant to be seen--full in front--for as many seconds. We even know of churches in the
cross streets, though near Broadway, whose square towers are stone-fronted after the usual
fashion, but present nothing to the crowded thoroughfare but undressed walls of brick! Yes,
a Christian church, in flagrante delictu.

It will be objected to this that there is no use in finishing the sides of city buildings,
as they may afterward be hidden by others. This would do well enough if they were all of the
same height; but they are not, and never can be. Indeed, a house is by many considered 'handsomer'
than its neighbors, just so far forth as it overtops them. The builder would hardly think it
a fair beat if the cornices corresponded. The successive erections on a row of vacant lots,
usually illustrate this popular ambition. Some one secures the corner and builds his house.
So far, so good. Presently number two comes along, and, to secure himself from invidious comparison,
piles his house half a story higher than number one. But his triumph is short, for the third
aspirant soon arrives, who, true to principle, takes another step in the ascending series.
So it goes till the block is finished, the whole thing looking as if architecture was a sort
of auction, in which the prize of success was awarded to the highest builder.

It being one of our social necessities that our houses differ in size, we must pay some attention
to their sides. Not giving them as decided a treatment as the front, but something compatible
with a plain surface. And, above all, the principal cornice and roof lines should be carried
round on the sides, at least as far as they can be seen. In some rare instances, where this
has been done, it is astonishing to note the improved appearance and finish, that it gives.

Did you ever consider the superior elegance of a corner house? Yet it is not so much the position
as the fact that the position is taken advantage of. Being finished on both sides, it gives
to the mind the idea of thickness as well as length and breadth. It is, in short, a solid,
while the affair next door, overtopping it perhaps a story or two, is merely a superficies.

But this is only a side thrust. Our 'commercial palaces' challenge the same criticism face
to face. For the front, considered by itself even, is generally incomplete. A supposititious
formula determines that the house must be in the Italian palace style, but the narrow lot forbidding
an entire design, the builder, as he cannot put in all, puts in all he can, so that, instead
of the house being a house, it is only a specimen slice of a palace. It has no particular beginning
or middle or ending, and, with the long viscera of brickwork trailing off behind, it looks
as if just wrenched out of the side of some Florentine or Genoese mansion. And, in very truth,
is it not?

The common cause of these errors and incongruities is our self-abasement to a style which depends
for its effect upon continuous uniformity of design, while, from the very nature of our society,
our houses must be diverse in size and pretension. We are a social people, it is true, but
our individualities are strongly marked, and our dwellings, while designed with reference to
each other, should never be too uniform. How frightful those white-shuttered brick piles which
monotonize the streets of Philadelphia! But to assert its individuality the house need not
shoot up like a vein of trap rock through a stratum of conglomerate: an American rises, not
through the mass, but out of it.

Have you ever seen a street view of Bruges or Nuremberg, those fantastic old cities of mediæval
Germany? You remember them, the tall gabled houses with projecting stories, the picturesque
grouping of porch and gallery and oriel, the curious old bridges and the Gothic fountains,
the grotesque carvings over the doorways, and the perfect population of dormer windows and
turrets and lanterns. And did you not, entre nous, like it better than those stiff, formal
views of the French and Italian cities? Was not the poetry more pleasing than the prose?

'Oh well,' you say, 'these turrets and gables and things look all very well in pictures, but
they would never do for our streets: we must build in some regular style, you know.' The same
old error again, the same servile imitation of a vague something or other, which we call classic.
Do you think the old German burghers built in any regular style? Not a bit of it. They built
just what they wanted, in the most natural and plain-spoken manner. If they wanted a porch
over the door, or a bay window at a certain corner, or a turret to enjoy some favorite view--they
made them, put them just where they were needed. Convenience was everything, and precedent nothing.

Is there not something about this individual originality, this perfect freedom of thought and
expression, that might be adapted to express the American character? And if more pleasing,
why cling to the effete and cumbrous tyrannies of a soulless classicism? Why crush out all
symptoms of natural growth to make room for the unsightly exotic?

Nature herself has made the law that beauty is variety. Monotony, though magnificent, will
become irksome, but variety is an unceasing delight. Versailles, with its formal avenues of
shorn foliage, and its geometrical lawns and terraces, may please you more at first sight than
an English park, because the mind feels a sort of pride in being able to grasp such vast ideas
at a glance. But you will find, upon a second or third visit, that the unnatural arrangement
of the French pleasure grounds has something of staleness about it. Nature disdains such bondage.
Louis XIV, it is said, grew weary of his splendid plaything, almost before it was finished.
How different the English landscape garden, where graceful sweeps and irregular masses of foliage
meet the eye with unlooked-for beauties at every turn! Their variety is rather that of an architectural
museum than the result of any combination. We have styles enough, in all conscience, but none
that will tolerate any other.

Against this may be urged the very argument with which we set out, that a nation's architecture
should be the exponent of its national character, and as we are made up of every people and
every class, that this heterogeneous mélange is our normal style. But mark the distinction:
Although we are made up of so many diverse elements, yet the component parts are severally
and mutually held in solution. Each so affects the mass as to give rise to a new element--not
a mere union, but a result--not an addition, but a multiplication. But with the representative
art, the materials have merely come in contact--nothing more. Our houses lack that social element
which characterizes our people. Each is itself, and itself alone, ruining the appearance of
its neighbors, and ruined by them in turn. Odi profanum vulgus, et arceo, is the only law;
while we are a chemical solution, our architecture is only a mechanical one.

How proceed, then, to develop our national style, that unborn something which a future age
might refer to as American, just as we speak of Byzantine or Gothic? Are we waiting for somebody
to invent it? We think, maybe, that it is to spring forth, ready made, like Minerva from the
brain of Zeus. If this is our idea, we might as well give up at once and confess to the world
our imbecility. Never, from Adam's day to this, did anybody ever invent a new architecture.
It is purely a matter of genealogy. For just as we trace back a family line, can we trace the
generations of art. Spite of its complications, many an offshoot can be followed up directly
to the parent stock. Taking, for example, the mediæval architecture of Spain, the brilliant
'Moresco,' we find it to be a combination of the vigorous Gothic of the North with the beautiful
though effeminate Saracenic--the exotic of the South. And of these latter, each is traceable,
though by different lines, to the same great prototype, the Roman. For when Rome was divided,
the Dome fell to the inheritance of the Eastern Empire, and the Basilica (which was only a
Greek temple turned inside out) to the Western. The former, joined to the Arabian, and the
latter to the Gothic, formed two great families, from the union of whose descendants sprang
the Moresco. But even the Roman was a derivative style, leading us back successively through
Greece, Assyria, and Egypt. Each step is visibly allied to the preceding, and yet how unlike
the pyramid and the Spanish cathedral! Did history permit, all the styles that have ever existed
could be traced in the same way; it is quite as easy to account for their diversities, as for
those of the nations that produced them. Ham and Japheth were of the same household, yet how
different their descendants of to-day! As from one man sprang all people, so was there an original
germ of architecture from which all successive styles have been derived.

The composite forms that have arisen since commerce and civilization have brought the ends
of the world together, increase the complication. There have been marriages and intermarriages,
some good matches and some bad ones, some with vigorous and some with sickly offspring, and
some hybrids of such monstrous malformation as almost to make us fear that a new style can
be invented. But the effect is impossible without the cause. Save the mysterious Pyramids,
every structure extant acknowledges its ancestry. If physiologists are fond of claiming the
history of the race as one of their own chapters, architecture has at least an equal claim.

But all this does not mean that we are mere passive agents in the matter. We are, in a great
measure, the 'external influences' that modify art. The motion exists, but it devolves upon
us to give direction.

