PROMETHEUS. I speak nothing; fetter these wrists well, that I shall not flee,--so that I shall
be here on your return. Tell you all? I have already told you that a new race shall people
the earth, formed of the chosen spirits of the extinct humanity; the multitude of others will
perish. A noble family, all-seeing and powerful, will be the perfect synthesis of the divine
and the human. The times will be others, but between them and these a link is necessary, and
you shall be that link.

AHASVERUS. I?

PROMETHEUS. You yourself; you, the chosen one; you, the King. Yes, Ahasverus. You shall be
King. The Wanderer will find rest. The despised of men shall rule over mankind.

AHASVERUS. Wily Titan, you are deceiving me ... King,--I?

PROMETHEUS. You, King. Who else, then? The new world needs to be bound by a tradition, and
none can speak of one to the other as you can. Thus there will be no gap between the two humanities.
The perfect will proceed from the imperfect, and your lips will tell the new world its origin.
You will relate to the new humanity all the ancient good and evil. And thus will you live anew
like the tree whose dead branches are lopped off, only the flourishing ones being preserved,
but here growth will be eternal.

AHASVERUS. Resplendent vision! I myself?

PROMETHEUS. Your very self.

AHASVERUS. These eyes ... these hands ... a new and better life ... Glorious vision! Titan,
it is just. Just was the punishment; but equally just is the glorious remission of my sin.
Shall I live? I myself? A new and better life? No, you are jesting with me.

PROMETHEUS. Very well, then; leave me. You will return some day, when this vast heaven will
be open to let the spirits of the new life descend. You will find me here at peace. Go.

AHASVERUS. Shall I again greet the sun?

PROMETHEUS. The selfsame sun that is about to set. Friend sun, eye of time, nevermore shall
your eyelids close. Gaze upon it, if you can.

AHASVERUS. I cannot.

PROMETHEUS. You will be able to, when the conditions of life shall have changed. Then your
retina will gaze upon the sun without peril, for in the man of the future will be concentrated
all that is best in nature, energizing or subtle, scintillating or pure.

AHASVERUS. Swear that you are not lying.

PROMETHEUS. You will see whether I lie.

AHASVERUS. Speak, speak on; tell me everything.

PROMETHEUS. The description of life is not worth the sensation of life; you shall experience
it deeply. The bosom of Abraham in your old Scriptures is nothing but this final, perfect world.
There you will greet David and the prophets. There will you tell to the astounded listeners,
not only the great events of the extinct world, but also the ills they will never know: sickness,
old age, grief, egotism, hypocrisy, abhorrent vanity, imbecility, and the rest. The soul, like
the earth, will possess an incorruptible tunic.

AHASVERUS. I shall gaze ever on the immense blue sky?

PROMETHEUS. Behold how beautiful it is.

AHASVERUS. As beautiful and serene as eternal justice. Magnificent heaven, more beautiful than
the tents of Caesar. I shall behold you forever; you will receive my thoughts, as before; you
will grant me clear days, and friendly nights ...

PROMETHEUS. Dawn upon dawn.

AHASVERUS. Ah, speak on, speak on. Tell me everything. Let me unbind these chains ...

PROMETHEUS. Loosen them, new Hercules, last man of the old world, who shall be the first of
the new. Such is your destiny; neither you nor I,--nobody can alter it. You go farther than
your Moses. From the top of mount Nebo, at the point of death, he beheld the land of Jericho,
which was to belong to his descendants and the Lord said unto him: "Thou hast seen with thine
eyes, yet shalt not pass beyond." You shall pass beyond, Ahasverus; you shall dwell in Jericho.

AHASVERUS. Place your hand upon my head; look well at me; fill me with the reality of your
prediction; let me breathe a little of the new, full life ... King, did you say?

PROMETHEUS. The chosen king of a chosen people.

AHASVERUS. It is not too much in recompense for the deep ignominy in which I have dwelt. Where
one life heaped mire, another life will place a halo. Speak, speak on ... speak on ... (He
continues to dream. The two eagles draw near.)

FIRST EAGLE. Ay, ay, ay! Alas for this last man; he is dying, yet he dreams of life.

SECOND EAGLE. Not so much that he hated it as that he loved it so much.

THE VENGEANCE OF FELIX

By José de Medeiros E Albuquerque (1867- )

Member of the Brazilian Academy of Letters

Old Felix had followed his trade of digger in all the quarries that Rio de Janeiro possessed.
He was a sort of Hercules with huge limbs, but otherwise stupid as a post. His companions had
nicknamed him Hardhead because of his obstinate character. Once an idea had penetrated his
skull it would stick there like a gimlet and the devil himself couldn't pull it out. Because
of this trait there arose quarrels, altercations on points of the smallest significance, which
the man's acquaintances would purposely bring up, knowing his evil humor. But Felix, despite
his vigorous and sanguine constitution, was by no means quick to anger, nor immediately responsive
to injury; on the contrary he was exceedingly patient in his vindictiveness. For the longest
time he would ruminate upon his vengeance, most astutely, and he would carry it out at the
moment when he believed himself perfectly secure. Oh! His ruses were not of very great finesse
and required very little talent; but by dint of considering and reconsidering the case, by
dint of waiting patiently for the propitious opportunity to present itself, he finally would
play some evil trick upon his comrades. So that nobody liked him.

Felix had married, but his wife did not long survive. Just long enough to leave him a son and
a daughter, who grew up knowing little restraint, chumming around with all the good-for-nothings
of the vicinity, plaguing all the neighbors, who on their part, were not slow to punish the
rascals. Thus several years went by. The son became a notorious character, the daughter an
impudent, cynical little runabout who, on certain occasions, would fill their rickety abode
with her chatter about affairs concerning the "man" of so-and-so or such-and-such. And thus
things were going when the old man took it into his head to fall ill. An excruciating rheumatism
attacked both his legs, rendering him incapable of moving about, and confining him to an old,
lame armchair that was balanced by a complicated arrangement of old boxes that could never
be got to remain steady. The illness became chronic. The daughter helped out the finances of
the house with her earnings as laundry-woman ... and perhaps by earnings of a different nature.
Anyway, they got along. The old fellow, willy-nilly, spent his days invariably riveted to his
armchair, groaning with pain at the least movement, swearing, fretting and fuming, despairing
of life. And, since his daughter simply refused from the very beginning to let him have even
a drop of brandy, he was perforce cured of his vice.

Just about this time there happened to them the worst of all possible adventures. The son,
whom the father had not seen for several weeks, one fine day attacked a peaceful citizen and,
with a terrible knife thrust in the stomach, despatched him to a better world; as to which
event circumstances seemed so contrary that the son allowed himself to be arrested.

The old man was in the habit of reading his gazette religiously, from the first line to the
last; thus he learned the news. And it was through the same newspaper that he followed the
trial and learned of his son's conviction. This made him furious, not so much because of the
sentence as because of a special circumstance. The policeman who had arrested his son was--just
think of it!--Bernardo,--yes, Bernardo, his own neighbor--the same chap who would greet him
daily with the ironic words: "How are things, Felix old boy? And when will you be ready for
a waltz?"

Even on the day of imprisonment and during those that followed Bernardo had permitted himself
these witty remarks.

Bernardo was a cabra of Bahai, a pretentious mulatto whose enormous head of hair, carefully
parted in the middle into two flourishing masses, was kept so only through the services of
odorous pomade that cost four sous a pot. He had been, in his day, a dishonest political henchman,
well-known for his exploits; then, supported by the liberal leader whose election he had worked
for, he escaped prison and entered the police service. At that time police officers were called
"bats",--a sobriquet that troubled Bernardo very little. And it had been he--what anger flashed
in old Felix's eyes as he thought of it!--he, whose past activities would well bear examination,
he who had arrested Felix's son!...

From that moment one preoccupation alone filled Felix's hours--vengeance! This hatred dominated
his existence and became the only power that could vanquish the ever-growing misery of his
broken-down body. The mere thought that he could not grow well, while the cabra would daily
continue to live in insolent impunity, was enough to give him convulsions of rage; he would
foam at the mouth, gnash his teeth and, in that obtuse brain of his, concoct scheme upon scheme
of vengeance, almost all of them impracticable, for he was chained to the spot in stupid impotence.

At times he would wish to call Bernardo and with thunderous violence pour torrents of insult
upon his head. But what end would that serve? Felix's treacherous, cowardous nature counselled
him to have prudence. So, on the first days after the arrest, when the mulatto would go by,
the old man feigned slumber. Then, in the continuing uncertainty as to what method of vengeance
to pursue, and in order not to let his hatred betray itself, he spoke to the policeman as if
nothing had happened. Nevertheless there was one thing that puzzled him greatly: his daughter
had said nothing to him about the entire affair. Did she know nothing about it? It was almost
impossible that the mulatto, with his chatterbox habits, had not spoken of the matter. Had
his daughter feared to shock him with the news? This was all the less probable since she had
never had any particular love for him. Scarcely did a day pass that she did not call him a
"good-for-nothing," "a lazy lout," and other similar tendernesses. So he breathed not a word,
and continued to ruminate upon his vengeance.

Months rolled on. Far from getting better the illness increased. As soon as the old fellow
tried to move, horrible pains seized him at every joint. His daughter maltreated him, and at
the height of his attacks she would reply to his complaints that he'd do better if he left
the house, and she even threatened to send him to the hospital. It was now June. The weather
was one long succession of heavy rains; the invalid suffered atrociously from the cold and
the damp, and his daughter, disgruntled at the bad weather, which interfered with her washing,
lived in unbroken sulkiness. She treated him worse than a dog, and it was truly with the patience
of a dog that he endured everything, so much did he fear being sent away. A plan of vengeance
had arisen in his brain, and slowly, during the months, ever since he had learned that his
case was incurable, his project had absorbed his entire mental activity,--indeed, his whole
existence. He breathed only for his plan, for the sure, propitious opportunity.

At last it came, and a terrible day it was. At dusk his daughter had left, closing the door,
as was her habit, and had not returned at night. The old man was parched with thirst and his
physical torture had doubled. He resolved upon quick action.

In the morning,--it might have been about seven o'clock--his daughter returned, or rather,
rolled into the room, and with her, pell-mell came "Jane", Bernardo's "friend". Jane was roundly
berating his daughter. "You rotten thing!" she cried. "I'll show you! Trying to take away somebody
else's man." And the two women came to blows, rousing the entire neighborhood. They tried at
last to separate the combatants, but it would have been easier to break them to bits, so fiercely
did they struggle against each other. There was a whistle; the police arrived, and the women
were taken to the lock-up. All this as quick as a flash.

The old man had not had time to utter a word. But an extreme rage, blind,--an anger such as
only savage beasts can know, overpowered him. What! His daughter, the mistress of Bernardo!
This was the last straw!

Towards noon the mulatto came back. He had spent the night away from home, under the pretext
of a special patrol; he returned, ignorant of the morning's events. He came in smiling, in
that measured walk of his, waddling along. He approached Felix and asked him the classic question:
"Now then, how goes it?"

Felix did not reply and merely made a sign with his hand. The policeman entered. When he had
come near, Felix said to him in a low voice that he had something very serious to tell him.
But first of all he insisted that Bernardo go and bring his large knife.

"Why that, Felix? What do you want to do with a knife?" asked the other.

The old man smiled mysteriously. "Quick, my boy, I'll tell you afterwards, and you'll see that
my story will be worth the trouble."

"All right, I'll get it," replied the officer. And a minute later he was back with the knife,
which he gave to the invalid.

"Now," continued the latter, "go and close the door, so that nobody will hear. Close it well,
and turn the key."

Bernardo felt some mistrust at all this mystery, but knowing for certain that the helpless
old man could do him no harm, he obeyed, curiously waiting to learn what the other was up to.

"So, you want to tell me now?--Not yet! Here, first put this watch in your pocket." And the
old man drew from his pocket an ancient nickel watch which he gave to the cabra.

"What am I to do with this, Felix?" asked the mulatto.

"Keep it, I tell you," was the reply.

"The old duffer is crazy for sure," thought Bernardo, nevertheless doing as he was told. Then,
seeing in what manner the invalid had grasped the knife he discreetly withdrew a few paces.

Well, almost immediately Felix made a sudden movement that caused his pain to increase anew,
and he began to groan, to utter most terrible cries, almost shrieks.

"I am dying! I am dying!"

Bernardo had never heard such awful groaning; his mistrust grew, and, seeing that the old man
still clutched the knife, he thought the invalid would kill him if he should attempt to approach.
He therefore again stepped back a few paces and awaited developments, persuaded that he had
a lunatic in front of him. The groaning became louder and louder, so that it was easily to
be heard outside. Finally, the cabra, tired of waiting, said, "I'll be back right away, Felix."
And he was about to leave.

Brusquely, the old man uncovered his own breast, and with a rapid movement, right over the
heart, he thrust in the blade with all his might, up to the hilt. Not a drop of blood spurted
out, the thick blade obstructing the wound. His face convulsed with an expression of excruciating
torment; his hanging arms grew rigid.

The officer rushed to the door, opened it, called for help and returned to pull the knife from
the wound, and to see whether it was yet possible to save the unfortunate man. Men and women,
wildly excited, ran up to the house crying loudly, and, seeing this man with a long knife whence
the blood was dripping, seeing also the pierced breast of old Felix, the whole populace rushed
upon Bernardo, disarmed him, crying "Kill him! Kill him!" Bernardo was punched and kicked and
cudgelled from one infuriated person to the other in the crowd, and led to the police-station
by a multitude which every moment waxed greater and more threatening.

Several months later the trial came to an end. Bernardo was sentenced to hard labor for life.
Nobody would believe his story. The proofs were overwhelming. Had he not been caught red-handed?
The presence of the nickel-watch in his pocket indicated sufficiently that the motive of the
crime was robbery. The vengeance of old Felix had been well calculated: the result was there.
The old man had conquered.

THE PIGEONS

By Coelho Netto

Member Brazilian Academy of Letters

    When the pigeons leave, misfortune follows.
                           --Indian superstition.

When Joanna appeared at the door yawning, fatigued after the long sleepless night spent at
her son's bedside, Triburcio, on the terrace, leaning against his spade, was watching the pigeon-house
closely.

The sun was already setting and gilded the moist leaves. At the edge of the ravine, turtle-doves
and starlings were circling in the air, making a joyous noise above the high branches of the
neighboring trees.

The caboclo[6] Indian did not remove his eyes from the pigeon-house. The wrinkles on his forehead
bore witness to an inner struggle--, grave thoughts which were clouding his spirit. A pigeon
took to flight, then another, and still another; he turned his head, following them with his
gaze until they were out of sight, and then returned to his melancholy contemplation.

      [6] Caboclo signifies copper-colored. Indigenous tribes of Brazil
      are so called from the color of their skin.

The birds came and went, entered the pigeon-house and left in agitated manner, cooing loudly;
they circled above the dwelling, sought the trees, alighted on the thatch of the cabin, descended
to earth in spiral flight.

Some seemed to be getting their bearings, to seek a route: they gazed across the clear stretches
of space and penetrated to the distant horizons. Others would fly off, describing vast circles,
and would return to the pigeon-house. Then all would come together as if for a discussion,
to plan their departure.

Some, undecided, opened their wings as if about to fly away, but soon would close them again.
Still others would dart off, only to come back aimlessly, and the noise increased to a hubbub
of hurried leaving.

The Indian gazed fixedly. Well he knew that the life of his little son was at stake, and depended
upon the decision of the birds. "When the pigeons leave, misfortune quickly follows."

Joanna noticed his preoccupation. "What is the matter?" she asked.

The caboclo scratched his head and made no reply. The woman insisted. "What is the trouble,
Tiburcio?"

"The pigeons have taken a whim into their heads, Joanna."

"And you are lost in the contemplation of it? I have not cared to speak, but I know well the
meaning of what I see."

The caboclo slung the spade across his shoulder and walked slowly up the road that led to the
plantation, through the wet hay which exhaled a piquant odor.

Some hens were clucking, hidden in the high grass, and a little ribbon of water which flowed
gently along sparkled here and there through the openings in the brushwood.

Tiburcio, head bowed, spade on his shoulder, could not shake off the deep impression that had
been made upon him by the sudden migration of the birds.

It was the fatal sign.

To be sure, he had heard the owl's screech for many and many a night; but he had seen no cause
for fear in this: everything was going along nicely; their little son was in good health and
they, too, knew no illness. But now the warning of the evil omen was confirmed. The pigeons
which he had himself brought up were flying away. They were leaving, thus forecasting the arrival
of death.

He turned back; he raised his eyes. There were the birds high above, still circling about,
and Joanna was at the threshold of the cabin, leaning against the jamb, her arms crossed, her
head hanging. The poor woman was surely weeping.

Within him he felt a mute explosion of hatred and revolt against the ungrateful birds. Never
had he had the courage to kill a single one of them. He lived only for the purpose of keeping
the pigeon-house in order, thinking only of making it larger so that it might accommodate more
pairs. And the little child, was it not he who crushed the millet for the fledglings, who climbed
the mango-tree, going from branch to branch to see whether there wasn't some crack through
which the rain came in? Who knows? Perhaps the pigeons were leaving their dwelling because
they no longer saw him?

He shrugged his shoulders and continued on his way. As he crossed the dam his heart palpitated
wildly. He stopped. The water, held back in its course, threw back a motionless reflection
of him. But although he looked down upon it he saw not his image; his thoughts were entirely
with the little child who, burning with fever, was in delirium.

He chose a side path. The millet stems were so high that he disappeared within them with a
crumpling of dry leaves. The soft ant-hills which it was his daily custom to level off failed
to attract his attention. He walked straight on. Parrots flew by, chattering, with their green
wings shining in the sun, and huge grasshoppers were jumping in the leaves.

He came upon a straw hut,--here the child was wont to play with its toys;--there was even now
a boot of wild sugar-cane. But already the grass was beginning to invade the abandoned shelter....
For a month the little child had not visited the place. When the father came to the field of
manioc he sat down, bent almost in two. The spade weighed upon his shoulders like a burden.
The strength had oozed out of his legs. His whole body was broken with fatigue, as if at the
end of a long journey. He sat down upon a hillock and began to trace lines upon the earth,
with a distraught air.

At times it seemed as if he heard the echo of his wife's voice. He would raise his head and
strain his ears to catch the sound. But only the rustling of the leaves stirred by the breeze
and the chirping of the insects in the sun came to him. All earth seemed to perspire. A diaphanous
vapor rose tremblingly from the hot soil; the leaves hung languidly, and through the intense
blueness of the sky passed some urubus[7] in search of distant lodgings.

      [7] Urubu: the black vulture of South America.

Suddenly a pigeon winged through the air, then another, and still another. They were leaving
... they were leaving!... A beating of wings,--more on the way. They would never return, never!
They were fleeing in horror, feeling the approach of death.

For a long time he gazed about him, but could see only the rich verdure waving to the wind
in the warm transparency of the atmosphere. He should have taken his child to town as soon
as the illness had appeared. But who could have foretold this? He raised his eyes to heaven
and they lingered upon the luminous azure; then came another pigeon. He shook his head and,
striking his fist against his thigh, slung his spade back upon his shoulder and turned in the
direction of his house.

When Joanna saw him on the terrace she appeared to divine his thoughts.

"It is well you returned, my dear! All alone here I am at a loss as to what to do."

He looked at the pigeon-house, saw that it was deserted, and ominously silent. As evening fell
Tiburcio sat down upon the threshold of the cabin and began to smoke, waiting for the pigeons.
The grasshoppers were shrilling; all the birds who had their nests in the tree nearby retired
and, as it was still light, they lingered in the branches to trill their good-night cadences.

The sky grew pale. The landscape was veiled in a light mist. The evening breeze scattered the
gentle odor of lilies. Not very far off a dog barked now and then. At times a grave lowing
saddened the silence. Tiburcio did not remove his eyes from the pigeon-house, unless it was
to pierce the shadows and try to discover in the distance one of the birds. Perhaps some of
them would return.

Where could they find a better shelter? The forest was full of dangers and domestic pigeons
could scarcely live in the brushwood. What other pigeon-roost could have attracted them? If
he had but followed the line of their flight ... Some had taken the direction of the fields,
others had flown towards the mountains, and there was no sign of any returning.

It was now quite dark. Joanna lighted a candle. Already the frogs were croaking in the marshes.
A star shone in the sky. Tiburcio fixed his gaze upon it and began to pray in low tones. The
silence was scarcely broken by the murmuring of the water as it ran and broke over the stones
in the ravine not far away, just behind the cabin.

Tiburcio sighed, arose, leaned against the jamb and lacked courage to go inside. Joanna came
near the door.

"And now?"

"The same thing," he replied.

He stepped down, called her, and together they went towards the terrace. Near the mango-tree,
directly under the pigeon-house, they stopped, and the Indian, as if in fear of being heard
by the child, asked softly, "Joanna, don't you know any prayers for this?" And he pointed to
the deserted pigeon-roost.

"Only Lina knows," she answered.

"She can pronounce the proper spells?"

"So they say."

Tiburcio stood as if in a dream. Suddenly, in a firm voice, he announced, "I am going to her."

"Now?"

"Certainly!... Haven't you just said that she was a sorceress?"

"I have never seen it, Tiburcio.... That's what people say."

"But you?"

"I? No. And I am afraid that it is too late. You have seen your self how far gone he is! He
is no longer interested in anything. I move about, I speak, I go here and there, I come back
again into the room,--but it is all nothing to him. Ah! God in heaven!"

Her voice died out Suddenly she melted into tears. Tiburcio withdrew and commenced to pace
slowly up and down the terrace. The white moon was rising. The fields became less obscure and,
in the light, the shadows of the trees, very black, stretched across the ground.

"Patience, dear woman, patience!"

The strident crickets were chirping. The caboclo murmured, "Yes, I know ..."

Of a sudden Joanna shuddered. Quivering she turned towards the cabin, from whose wide door
shone a ray of livid light; for a moment her astonished gaze lingered and then, with a bound
she was gone.

Tiburcio, motionless, without understanding what his wife had just done, quietly awaited her
return, when a piercing cry rang out. The caboclo rushed to the cabin and made for the room
where the candle was burning. The woman, on her knees before the little bed, leaning over the
child, was sobbing desperately.

"What has happened, Joanna?"

She gave a hoarse cry and threw her arms across the corpse of her son.

"Look! It's all over!"

She bent down, her face brushed a cheek that was burning; her trembling hands felt a little
body that was still aflame. She touched the sunken chest, where the ribs showed through like
laths, and the hollow abdomen.

"Listen to his heart, Tiburcio!"

He could only reply, "It is all over!"

The mother arose with a leap, disfigured, her hair dishevelled, her eyes sparkling. She tried
to speak, stretched her hands out to her husband, but fell limp upon a basket and, bowed down,
bathed in tears, she began to repeat the name of her son with an infinite tenderness that was
rent by sobs.

"My Luiz! My little Luiz! But a moment ago living, oh blessed Virgin!"

Tiburcio turned away and in the room, before the table, he stopped, his eyes wandering, his
lips trembling, the tears rolling in big drops down his bony face. Joanna left the chamber,
wavering as if drunk, and seeing him, threw herself into his arms; he held her without uttering
a word, and they stood thus in embrace for a long time, in the dark, narrow room where the
crickets were chirping.

Joanna went back to the chamber. Tiburcio remained leaning against the table, his eyes fixed
upon the candle which flickered in the breeze. Slowly the light of the moon came in, white,
climbing upon the walls. He arose with a sigh, went to the door, sat down upon the threshold,
lighted his pipe and looked leisurely out upon the country, which was growing brighter beneath
the moon. Suddenly it seemed to him that he heard the cooing of pigeons. Above, the stars were
shining, the tree tops glittered in the moonlight. Could it be an illusion?

Motionless, he concentrated his attention. The cooing continued. He arose impetuously, walked
straight to the pigeon-roost and leaned against the trunk of the mango-tree.

"Could it be the pigeons who were returning after the passing of death?" he began to mutter
in fury, replying to his thoughts. "Now it's too late! A curse upon them!"

A beating of wings, a tender cooing, and little cries came from the pigeon-house. There was
no doubt now. He went forward and, from the middle of the terrace watched the pigeon-house,
walking resolutely towards the cabin.

Joanna was sobbing hopelessly. He took the candle, went to the kitchen, and seeing the axe
in a corner he seized it, still muttering. He then turned back to the terrace and, having reached
the mango-tree, rolled up the sleeves of his coarse shirt so that he might swing the axe.

At the first blow against the post which supported the pigeon-house the birds grew still. Tiburcio
redoubled his efforts. A crack now weakened the structure, but still it resisted. He leaned
the axe against the trunk and, grasping the branches, raised himself to the top of the tree.
From there he supported himself between two boughs and gave the large box a furious kick. The
pigeon-roost fell shattered to the ground.

Two pigeons flew off in great fright, dazed. Uncertain of their direction in the clearness
of the night, they lit upon the roof of the hut.

The caboclo slid down lightly along the trunk and saw two little bodies who were whining, staggering,
dragging themselves along. They were two little pigeons. He bent over them, took them in his
hands and began to examine them. They were ugly, still without wings, having only a thin down
to cover the muscles of their soft, wrinkled bodies. The Indian turned them over this way and
that in his shrivelled hands. He felt their fragile bones, and the little things struggled
to fly away, moving the stumps of their wings; they stretched out their necks and whined.

Gnashing his teeth, Tiburcio squeezed the fledglings and crushed them. Their tender bones cracked
like bits of wood. The blood gushed forth and trickled, warm, through the tightened fingers
of the man.

Under the impulse of his fury he threw them to the ground; they flattened out, soft as rotten
fruit. And the caboclo, growling to himself, trampled upon them. The parent-birds were cooing
dolorously upon the thatched roof, flying hither and thither.

Joanna, embracing her dead child, was still sobbing when Tiburcio entered the chamber. He stopped
before the little bed, and looked down. Of a sudden the woman shook, arose with a start, seized
her husband's arm, her eyes distended and her mouth wide open, her head bending over as if
to hear voices, faraway sounds.

"What is it, Joanna? What is the matter with you?"

