 He spoke
with an air of unusual decision, and entirely extempore, without the assistance of a single
memorandum, or note, or law-book: yet the greater portion of his speech consisted of very masterly
comments on a great number of cases which had been cited, in doing which he was as familiar
and exactly accurate, in stating not only the principles and distinctions involved, but the
minutest circumstances connected with them, as if the cases had been lying open before him!
His very first sentence put an end to all doubt as to the conclusion at which he had arrived.
These were his precise words--the last of them uttered with peculiar emphasis:--"My lords,
I have to move your lordships that the judgment of the court below in this case be affirmed."
He proceeded to compliment the judges on the patient and laborious attention and research which
they had bestowed upon the case. "My lords," said he, "with respect to all the points submitted
to their consideration, with the exception of one question--for in substance it was one question--their
opinion and judgment have been unanimous. With reference to that one question, seven of the
learned judges, with the Chief-Justice of the Common Pleas at their head, have expressed a
distinct, a clear, and decided opinion against the objections which were urged. Two other learned
judges have expressed an adverse opinion. I may be permitted to say--and all who were present
to hear them must agree with me--that it was an opinion accompanied with much doubt and much
hesitation. I think, under these circumstances, that unless your lordships are thoroughly and
entirely satisfied that the opinion of the great majority of the judges was founded in palpable
error, your lordships will feel yourselves, in a case of this kind, bound by their decision
to adhere to and support their judgment, and act in conformity with it." After briefly stating
the only question before them--viz. "whether, there being defective counts in the indictment,
and other counts with defective findings on them, a general judgment can be sustained?"--he
proceeded, "Your lordships will observe that this is a mere technical question, though, I admit,
of great importance--never presented to the judges of the court below, not calling in question
their judgment in substance--but arising entirely out of the manner in which that judgment
has been entered up, by those whose province it was to discharge that particular duty." He
then made the following decisive and authoritative declaration, which all who know the accurate
and profound learning and the vast judicial experience of the Chancellor will know how to value.
"Allow me, my lords, to say, that it has always been considered as a clear, distinct, and undoubted
principle of the criminal law of England, that in a case of this nature a general judgment
is sufficient; and from the first moment when I entered the profession, down to the time when
I heard the question agitated at your lordships' bar, I never heard it called in question.
I have found it uniformly and constantly acted upon, without doubt, without hesitation. I find
it in all treatises, in all text-writers on the subject--not questioned, not doubted, not qualified,
but stated broadly and clearly. Now for the first time it has been stated--and Mr Baron Parke
himself admits that it is for the first time--that that rule applies only to motions in arrest
of judgment. I never before heard of such a limitation. I am quite sure that there is no case
to sanction it, no decision to warrant it, no authority to be cited in support of it. I am
quite satisfied, after all I have heard on the subject, that there is no ground whatever for
the doubt--no ground whatever for the exception now insisted upon. * * * It is not NECESSARY
that the judgment should be awarded with reference to any particular count. No such decision
can be cited. No one not in the confidence of the judges can tell in respect of what the judgment
was awarded, except with reference to the record itself. If there be defective counts, does
it by any means FOLLOW that the judges, in awarding judgment, appointed any part of it with
reference to the defective counts? There is no similarity between the two cases: you cannot
reason or argue from one to the other. You must assume, UNLESS THE CONTRARY IS DISTINCTLY SHOWN,
that what the judges have done in that respect is right; that the judgment, if there be any
part of the record to support it, proceeded upon that part. In writs of error, you are not
allowed to conjecture, to decide on probabilities, you must look to the record; and unless
the record itself, on the face of it, shows, not that there may have been, but that there HAS
been manifest error in the apportioning of the punishment, you cannot reverse the judgment.
You upon conjecture reverse the judgment; and if afterwards you were to consult the very judge
by whom it had been pronounced, you might find that he had at the time taken that very point
into consideration. You are therefore running the hazard of reversing a judgment on the very
grounds which were present to the mind of the judge at the moment when that judgment was pronounced."
As to the statement, that judgment was awarded against each defendant "FOR HIS OFFENCES aforesaid,"--thus
argued the Chancellor:--

"But independently of this, my lords, let us look at the record itself, and see whether, on
the face of the record, there is any ground whatever for this objection. Every record must
be construed according to its legal effect--according to its legal operation. You cannot travel
out of the record. Now, what is the judgment? Why, 'that the court adjudges the defendant,
for his offences aforesaid, to be fined and imprisoned.' What is an 'OFFENCE' on this record?
There are two counts defective: but why? Because they charged, according to the unanimous opinion
of the judges, NO offence. There were facts stated, but not so stated as to constitute an indictable
offence. When you consider this record, then, according to its language and legal interpretation,
can you say that when there is an award of judgment for the offences on the record, that judgment
applies to those counts which bear on the face of them no offence whatever? That is, my lords,
an incongruity, an inconsistency, which your lordships will never sanction for one moment.
The argument which applies to defective counts, applies to valid counts on which erroneous
findings are entered up. When judgment is given for an 'offence' on the record, it is given
on the offence of which the defendant is properly found guilty; and he is not found guilty
on those counts on which the erroneous findings are entered up. My lords, the conclusion to
which I come on the record is, that when the judgment is awarded 'for the offences aforesaid',
it must be confined to those offences stated on the record which are offences in the eye of
the law, and of which the defendant has been found guilty by the law--namely, those offences
on which the finding was properly made. It is not, however, necessary to rest upon that: but
if it were, I am of opinion, and I state it to your lordships, that in this case, the record,
considered according to the proper and legal acceptation and force of the terms--and that is
the only way in which a local record can be properly considered--must be taken as containing
an award of judgment for those offences only which are properly laid, and of which the parties
have been found guilty. On the face, therefore, of the record itself, there is no defect whatever
in this case."

His lordship, after a luminous commentary on a great number of authorities, thus proceeded--"Now,
my lords, it is said that there is no express decision upon the subject. Why, if a case be
so clear, so free from doubt, that no man, no attorney, barrister, or judge, ever entertained
any scruple concerning it--if the rule have been uniformly acted upon and constantly recognised,
is it to be said, that because there is no express decision it is not to be considered law?
Why, that argument leads to this conclusion--that the more clear a question is, the more free
from doubt, the more uncertain it must be! My lords, what constitutes the law of this country?
It is--usage, practice, recognition. For many established opinions, part of the acknowledged
law of the land, you will look in vain for any express decision. I repeat, that practice, usage,
recognition, are considered as precedents establishing the law: these are the foundations on
which the common law of the country rests; and it is admitted in this case, that the usage
is all against the principle now contended for by the plaintiffs in error. No case, no authority
of any kind, can be adduced in its favour: it is now admittedly, for the first time, urged
in this extraordinary case. And I ask, my lords, if you will not recognise the decision of
the great majority of the judges on a question of this kind, involving the technicalities of
the law, with which they are constantly conversant? When, on such a point, you find them--speaking
by the eminent and able Chief-Justice of the Common Pleas--pronouncing a clear and distinct
opinion, it must be a case clear from all doubt--a conviction amounting to actual certainty,
upon which alone you would be justified in rejecting such authorities. * * * It is on these
grounds, and on the authorities which I have cited, that I assert the universal recognition
of the principle which I contend has been acknowledged law from time immemorial."

Such was the emphatic, clear, unwavering judgment, deliberately pronounced, after long examination
and consideration, by one of the very greatest intellects ever brought to bear upon the science
of the law, and of vast judicial experience in the administration of every department of the
law--criminal law, common law, and equity.

Lord Brougham then rose, and delivered partly a written, partly an oral judgment--characterized
by his lordship's usual vigour and felicity of reasoning and illustration. He entirely concurred
with the Lord Chancellor, and assigned reasons, which certainly appeared of irresistible cogency,
for adopting the opinion of the judges, whom, in a matter peculiarly within their province,
their lordships had summoned to their assistance, who had bestowed such unexampled pains upon
the subject, and were all but unanimous. The following was a very striking way of putting the
case:--"If the doubts which have been thrown upon this judgment be allowed to have any weight
in them, it goes the length of declaring, that every thing which has been decided in similar
cases was mere error and delusion. Nothing can be more dangerous than such an impression. I
cannot conceive any thing more appalling than that it should be held, that every one of the
cases similarly decided ought to be reversed; that the judgments without number under which
parties have been sent for execution are all erroneous judgments, and ought to have been reversed,
and must have been reversed, if they had been brought before the last resort!"

Lord Denman then rose; and though it was generally understood--as proved to be the fact--that
he intended to express a strong opinion against the disallowance of the challenge to the array,
we believe that no one expected him to dissent upon the great and only point on which the appeal
turned, from the opinions of the great majority of his brother judges, and from the Chancellor
and Lord Brougham. We waited with great interest to see the course which Lord Denman would
take upon the great question. He is a man of strong natural talents, of a lofty bearing in
the administration of justice, and an uncompromising determination on all occasions to assert
the rights and protect the privileges of the subject. Nor, though a man of unquestionably very
strong Whig opinions, are we aware of his having ever allowed them to interfere with his eminent
and most responsible judicial duties. Whatever may be our opinion as to the validity of his
conclusions on the subject of the challenge to the array, it was impossible not to be interested
by the zealous energy, the manly eloquence, with which he vindicated the right of the subject
to the fullest enjoyment of trial by jury, and denounced what he considered to be any, the
slightest interference, with that right. At length his lordship closed his observations on
that subject, and amidst breathless silence, fell foul, not only of the two counts which had
been admitted to be defective--the sixth and seventh--but "many others of the counts!" which,
he said, were open to objection, and declared that the judgment could not be sustained.

Lord Denman's judgment (to which great respect is due) was, as far as relates to the point
of the case, to this effect:--He had an "unconquerable repugnance" to assuming that the judges
had passed sentence on the good counts only; for it was in direct contradiction to the notorious
fact, that the judges had pronounced certain counts to be good; and it was also against the
common probability of every case. He admitted the general opinion of the profession to have
long been, that a general judgment, if supported by one sufficient good count, was not injured
by a bad one associated with it. "I know," said his lordship,[12] "what course I should have
taken if pressed to give judgment at the trial, and had given it. If nothing had taken place
respecting the validity of any part of the indictment--but much more if its validity had been
disputed, but established--I should leave apportioned the sentence to the degree of criminality
that was stated in all the counts which were proved in evidence."--"I see no inconvenience
in compelling a judge to form an opinion on the validity of the counts, before he proceeds
to pass judgment. He ought to take care that a count is good before he allows a verdict to
be taken, or at least judgment to be entered upon it; and great good will arise from that practice.
I am deliberately of opinion that this is a right and wholesome practice, producing no inconvenience,
and affording a great security for justice. * * * In criminal cases, all difficulty may be
entirely avoided by the court passing a separate judgment on each count, and saying, 'We adjudge
that on this count, on which the prisoner is found guilty, he ought to suffer so much; that
on the second count, having been found guilty, he ought to suffer so much; whether the count
turn out to be good or not, we shall pronounce no opinion; that question would be reserved
for a superior court. A court of error would then reverse the judgment only on such counts
as could not be supported in law--leaving that to stand which had proceeded on valid charges."--"Where
a felony was established, requiring a capital punishment, or transportation for life, the number
of counts could make no difference; because the punishment pronounced on any one exhausted
the whole materials of punishment, and admitted of no addition."--"The current notion, that
one count alone could support any sentence applicable to the offences stated in the whole indictment,
can be accounted for only by Lord Mansfield's general words, needlessly and inconsiderately
uttered, hastily adopted, and applied to a stage of the proceedings in which they are not correct
in law."

Then came Lord Cottenham--a cold, clear-headed lawyer, cautious, close, and accurate in his
reasonings, and very tenacious in adhering to his conclusions: possessing the advantage of
several years' judicial experience--as an equity judge. Thus he addressed himself to the point
of the case:--

"Is there error upon the record?"

* * * Did not the court below pass sentence upon the offences charged in the first, second,
third, fourth, sixth, and seventh counts in the indictment, as well as upon the offences charged
in the other counts? The record of that court tells us that it did; and if we are to see whether
there be any error on that record, and adopt the unanimous opinion of the judges, that those
six counts, or the findings on them, are so bad that no judgment upon them would be good, how
can we give judgment for the defendant, and thereby declare that there is no error in the record?
The answer which has been given to this objection appears not only unsatisfactory, but inadmissible.
It is said that we must presume that the court below gave judgment, and passed sentence, only
with reference to the unobjectionable counts and findings. That would be to presume that which
the record negatives. By that record the court tells us that the sentence on each defendant
was 'for his offences aforesaid,' after enumerating all those charged in the indictment. Are
we, after and in spite of this, to assume that this statement is false, and that the sentence
was upon one-half only of the offences charged? * * * We can look to the record only for what
passed in the court below; and as that tells us the sentence was passed upon all the offences
of which the jury had found the defendants guilty, we cannot presume to the contrary of such
a statement. It would be the presumption of a fact, the contrary of which was known to all
to be the truth. The argument supposes the court below to have been right in all particulars;
but the impossibility of doing so on this record was felt so strongly, that another argument
was resorted to, (not very consistently with the judgment, for it assumes that the jury may
have been wrong upon every count but one,) namely, that a court of error has to see only that
there is some one offence properly charged, or a punishment applicable to it inflicted; and
then, that being so, that as to all the other counts the court below was wrong--all such other
counts or findings being bad.

"Consider what is the proposition contended for. Every count in an indictment for misdemeanour
is supposed to apply to a different offence: they often do so, and always may; a prosecutor
having the option of preparing a separate indictment for each, or of joining all as one. If
he adopt the former course, he must, to support the sentence, show each indictment to be right.
If he adopt the latter course--viz. going upon one indictment containing several counts, and
one sentence is pronounced upon all the counts, according to the proposition now contended
for; suppose the sentences to be bad on all the counts but one, that one applying to the most
insignificant offence of the whole; a court of error, it is said, has no right to interfere!
That is to say, it cannot correct error except such error be universal;--no matter how important
that error, no matter how insignificant the portion which is right, nor what may have been
the effect of such error! The proposition will no longer be 'in nullo est erratum,' but that
the error is not--universal. If neither of these arguments prove that there is manifest error
upon the record, and it is not for a court of error to enter into any consideration of the
effect which such error may have produced, it has no power to alter the verdict, and can form
no opinion of its propriety and justice from mere inspection of the record, which is all the
judicial knowledge a court of error has of the case. Upon what ground is it to be assumed,
in any case, that the court below, if aware of the legal insufficiency of any of the counts,
or of the findings upon them, would have awarded the same punishment? It could, probably, do
so in many cases--but in many it as certainly would not. If the several counts were only different
modes of stating the same offence, the insufficiency of some of those counts could not affect
the sentence; but if the different counts stated--as they well might--actually different misdemeanours,
and, after a verdict of guilty upon all, it were found that some of such counts--that is, that
some of the misdemeanours--charged, must be withdrawn from the consideration of the court,
by reason of defects in either the counts themselves or the findings upon them, it cannot,
in many cases, be supposed that the sentence could be the same as if the court had the duty
thrown upon it of punishing all the offences charged. This may be well illustrated by supposing
an indictment for two libels in different counts--the first of a slight, the other of an aggravated
character--and verdict and judgment upon both; and the count charging the malignant libel,
or the finding on it, held to be bad. Is the defendant to suffer the same punishment as if
he had been properly found guilty of the malignant libel?" The reason why the rule in civil
actions does not apply to motions in arrest of judgment in criminal cases, is plainly this:--because
the court, having the sentence in its own hands, will give judgment 'on the part which is indictable'--and
the failure of part of the charge will go only to lessening the punishment. These reasons,
however, have plainly no application to writs of error; because a court of error CANNOT, of
course, confine the judgment to those parts which are indictable, or lessen it, as the different
charges are found to fail."

"The only inconvenience," added his lordship, "which can arise from the rule we are laying
down, will be, that the prosecutor must be careful as to the counts on which he means to rely:
the evidence at the trial must afford him the means of making the selection--and the defendant
has now the means of compelling him to do so."

Such was, in substance, Lord Cottenham's judgment. He read it in his usual quiet, homely, matter-of-fact
manner, as if he were not at all aware of, or cared not for, the immense importance and public
interest attaching to the publication of the conclusion at which he had arrived.

Then rose Lord Campbell. In a business-like and satisfactory manner he went briefly over all
the points which had been made by the plaintiffs in error, disposing of them all in favour
of the crown, (expressing, however, doubts on the subject of the challenge to the array,) till
he came to THE POINT--which he thus approached:--"I now come, however, to considerations which
induce me, without hesitation, humbly to advise your lordships to reverse this judgment." He
was brief but pithy in assigning his reasons.

"According to the doctrine contended for on the part of the crown," said his lordship, adopting
two cases which had been put by, we believe, Mr Peacock in his argument, "the following case
may well happen. There may be an indictment containing two counts, A and B, for separate offences;
A being a good count, B a bad one. The court below may think A bad and B good; and proceed
to sentence the defendant to a heavy punishment merely in respect of B, which, though it may
contain in reality not an offence in point of law, they may consider to contain one, and of
signal turpitude. On a writ of error, the court above clearly sees that B is a bad count; but
cannot reverse the judgment, because there stands count A in the indictment--and which, therefore,
(though for a common assault only,) will support the heavy fine and imprisonment imposed in
respect of count B! Let me suppose another case. An indictment contains two counts: there is
a demurrer[13] to each count: each demurrer is overruled, and a general judgment given that
the defendant, 'for his offences aforesaid,' shall be fined and imprisoned. Is it to be said,
that if he bring a writ of error, and prove one count to be bad, he shall have no relief unless
he shows the other to be bad also?"

He concluded a brief commentary (substantially identical with that of Lord Cottenham) on the
authorities cited, by affirming that "there was neither text-book, decision, nor dicta to support
a doctrine so entirely contrary to principle."

This is how his lordship thinks the like mischief may be obviated in future:--

"If bad counts are inadvertently introduced, the mischief may be easily obviated by taking
a verdict of acquittal upon them--by entering a nolle prosequi to them, or by seeing that the
judgment is expressly stated to be on the good counts only, which alone could prevent the bad
counts from invalidating the judgment upon a writ of error."

As to the notion that the judges were uninfluenced in passing sentence by the first three counts,
on which there were numerous findings, he observed, that--"We cannot resort to the palpably
incredible fiction that the judges, in violation of their duty, did not consider the guilt
of the parties aggravated by the charges in these three counts, and proportionally increase
their punishment."

After an unsuccessful attempt on the part of one or two lay peers who had not heard the whole
argument, to vote--which was resisted by both the Lord Chancellor and Lord Wharncliffe, and
Lords Brougham and Campbell--the Lord Chancellor finally put the question:--

"Is it your lordships' pleasure that this judgment be reversed?--As many as are of that opinion,
will say 'Content.' As many as are of a contrary opinion, will say 'Not Content.'"

"Content!" exclaimed Lords Denman, Cottenham, and Campbell.

"Not Content!" said the Lord Chancellor and Lord Brougham.

Lord Chancellor. "The Contents have it. The judgment is Reversed."

The instant after these pregnant words had been uttered, there was a rush of persons, in a
state of the highest excitement and exultation, towards the door; but the lords calmly proceeded
to give judgment in a number of ordinary appeal cases. The Attorney-General for Ireland, who
had been watching the whole of the day's proceedings with close attention, heard the result
with perfect composure; but as several portions of the judgments of Lords Denman, Cottenham,
and Campbell were being delivered, a slight sarcastic smile flitted over his features. As we
have mentioned him, let us take this opportunity of bearing testimony to the very great ability--ability
of the highest order--with which he has discharged his portion of the duty of conducting these
proceedings, unprecedented in their harassing complexity and their overwhelming magnitude.
He has manifested throughout--'bating a little irritability and strictness in petty details
at starting--a self-possession; a resolute determination; a capability of coping with unexpected
difficulty; a familiarity with constitutional law; a mastery over the details of legal proceedings;
in short, a degree of forensic ability, which has been fully appreciated by the English bar,
and reflects credit upon those who placed him in his arduous and responsible office. In terms
of similar commendation we would speak of the Irish Solicitor-General, (Mr Sergeant Green.)
Accustomed as we are to witness the most eminent displays of forensic ability, we feel no hesitation
in expressing our opinion, that the Solicitor-General's reply at the trial, and the Attorney-General's
reply on the motion for a new trial, were as masterly performances as have come under our notice
for very many years.

We have thus laid before our readers, with the utmost candour and care, this truly remarkable
case; and at a length which, though considerable, is by no means incommensurate with its permanent
interest and importance. We believe that we have, in the foregoing pages, furnished all persons,
of average intellect and information, with the means of forming for themselves a sound opinion
as to the propriety or impropriety of reversing the judgment of the court below. We have given
the arguments on both sides with rigid impartiality, and supplied such information, in going
along, as will enable the lay reader thoroughly to understand them. This is a question which
all thinking persons must needs regard with profound interest and anxiety. If, in the deliberate
opinion of the country, the judgments of the High Court of Parliament are habitually, though
unconsciously, warped by party and political feelings and prejudices; if, with such views and
intentions, they have strained and perverted the law of the land, wickedly sheltering themselves
under the unfortunate difference of opinion existing among the judges, those who have been
guilty of it will justly stand exposed to universal execration. It is no light matter even
to propose such a possibility as that of profligacy or corruption in the administration of
justice; above all, in the highest tribunal in the land--the place of last resort for the subject.
It is always with pain and regret that we hear, even in the height of political excitement
and hostility, the faintest imputation from any quarter on judicial integrity. We have watched
this case from first to last; and especially examined over and over again, in a spirit of fearless
freedom, the grounds assigned for reversing the judgment, and the position and character of
those by whose fiat that result was effected. We cannot bring ourselves to believe any thing
so dreadful as that three judicial noblemen have deliberately violated their oaths, and perpetrated
so enormous an offence as that of knowingly deciding contrary to law. Those who publicly express
that opinion, incur a very grave responsibility. We are ourselves zealous, but independent
supporters of the present government; we applaud their institution of these proceedings; no
one can lament more bitterly than we do, that O'Connell should, like many a criminal before
him, have escaped from justice through a flaw in the indictment; yet with all this, we feel
perfectly satisfied that the three peers who reversed the judgment against him, believed that
they were right in point of law. When we find so high an authority as Mr Baron Parke--as far
as politics are concerned, a strong Conservative--declaring that he cannot possibly bring himself
to concur in opinion with his brethren; that another judge--Mr Justice Coltman--after anxious
deliberation, also dissents from his brethren; and when we give each of these judges credit
for being able to appreciate the immense importance of unanimity upon such a case as the present,
had it been practicable--can it seem really unreasonable or surprising, that a corresponding
difference of opinion should exist among the peers, whose judicial duty it was to decide finally
between the judges? It is, certainly, a matter calculated to attract a moment's attention,
that the judgment should have been reversed by the votes of three peers who concur in political
opinion, and opposition to the government who instituted the prosecution. But in fairness,
put another possible case. Suppose Lord Abinger had been alive, and had concurred with the
Chancellor and Lord Brougham, would not another class of ardent partisans as naturally have
remarked bitterly upon the coincidence of opinion between the peers whose three voices concurred
in supporting the judgment of the court below?

