Barrie believed that her mother's hair must have been red, for once she had heard nurse say
to Mrs. Muir, "No wonder the sight of the child's a daily eyesore to the mistress; what with
them identical dimples, and hair of the selfsame shade, it must be a living reminder of what
we'd all be glad to forget." Barrie's hair was extremely red; and it had been intimated to
her that no red-haired girl could have cause for vanity, because to such unfortunates beauty
was denied; but loyalty to the unknown mother forbade the child to hate her copper-coloured locks.

In a room decorated with pale blue satin, red hair might perhaps simulate gold. The furniture
was quite new-looking and unless there had been some special reason, no mere change of taste
would have induced economical Grandma to make a clean sweep of these practically unused things.

A tall mirror with its wooden back turned outward helped to screen the furniture; and deep
under the dusty surface of the glass Barrie saw her own figure dimly reflected, like a form
moving stealthily in water beneath thin ice. It half frightened her, like seeing a spirit,
and she brought the gliding ghost to life by polishing the glass. This gave her back suddenly
the only friend she had, herself, and she was glad of the companionship. Close to the huddled
furniture stood a large trunk, a Noah's Ark of a trunk. Perhaps it was old-fashioned, but compared
to other luggage stored here in the garret it was new and defiantly smart. It had a rounded
top, and was made of gray painted wood clamped with iron.

Too good to be true that it should not be locked! And yes, locked it was, of course. But tied
to the iron handle on one end was a key. It seemed as if some one had thought that the trunk
might be sent for, and therefore the key must be kept handy. The knot was easily undone. The
key fitted the lock. Her heart beating fast, Barrie lifted the lid, and up to her nostrils
floated a faint fragrance. She had never smelled any perfume quite like it before. The nearest
thing was the scent of a certain rose in the garden when its petals were dried, as she dried
them sometimes for a bowl in her own room.

It was deep twilight in this corner, but Barrie's eyes were accustoming themselves to the gloom.
In the tray of the big trunk there were hats, and masses of something fluffy and soft, yet
crisp like gauze. "My mother's things!" she said to herself in a very little voice, with a
catch of the breath at the word "mother." And gently she lifted out the tray, to carry it nearer
the light. There was a cartwheel of a Leghorn hat in it, wreathed with cornflowers; another
hat of white tulle trimmed with a single waterlily, and a queer little bonnet made of forget-me-nots.
The fluffy stuff was a large blue scarf spangled with pinkish sequins.

Barrie rested the tray on a marble-topped table, and dipped deep into the trunk for other treasures.
There were several dresses, of delicate materials and pale shades, or else of daring colours
elaborately trimmed. There was a gown of coral-tinted satin embroidered with gold, and this
was of Empire fashion, so like the styles which Barrie saw in illustrated papers that it might
have been made yesterday. Could a red-haired woman have chosen to wear such a colour? For a
moment the girl doubted that these had been her mother's possessions; but when she held the
folds of satin under her own chin, she was startled by the picture in the mirror. Why, coral
was far more becoming than blue, which Miss Hepburn always said was the only colour to go with
red hair. It even occurred to Barrie that she might perhaps be--well, almost pretty.

"What if I am pretty, after all?" she asked herself; for she worshipped beauty, and it had
been sad to feel that to her it was denied forever--that never could she be like one of those
lovely beings in books with whom men fall desperately in love, and for whom they gladly die.

In great excitement she took off her short, badly made blue serge, and put on the coral satin,
which was low in the neck, and had tiny puffed sleeves. The dress fastened at the back, but
Barrie had grown clever in "doing up" her own frocks without help, and she easily managed the
few hooks and eyes. The satin was creased, but in the dim light it looked fresh and beautiful
as the petals of some gorgeous flower, and the long, straight-hanging gown with magic suddenness
turned the childlike girl into a young woman. The two massive tails of hair, which fell over
Barrie's shoulders, ending in thick curls at her waist, now offended her sense of fitness.
They were not "grown up" enough to suit the wearer of this fairy robe; and crossing the braids
at the back of her head, she brought them round it over her ears, tying the two curls together
in a sort of bow at the top.

"I'm like Cinderella dressed for the ball," she thought, "all except the glass slippers," and
she glanced down distastefully at the thick, serviceable boots whose toes pointed out from
under a line of gold embroidery.

There must once have been shoes to match this dress. Perhaps they were at the bottom of the
big trunk, whose depths she had not yet reached. Bending down for another search, she caught
sight of something in the background which she had not seen--a large picture with its face
against the wall.

Instantly Barrie forgot the shoes. Her heart jumped as it had jumped when she first saw the
key in the door of the garret stairs. Would they have turned to the wall in this dark corner
any picture save one? The girl knew that in another moment she would be looking at the portrait
of her mother.

To get at it, she had to shut the trunk and climb on the rounded lid, for the big wooden Noah's
Ark was too heavy to lift, and too firmly wedged in among large pieces of furniture to be pushed
out of the way. Kneeling on the trunk, regardless of her finery, Barrie grasped the picture
frame with both hands and pulled it up from its narrow hiding-place. Then, scrambling down,
she backed out into a space clear enough to permit of turning the picture, round. Then she
could not help giving a little cry, for it seemed that she was beholding a miracle. Her own
face, her own figure, the very dress she wore, and the odd way she had looped up her red braids,
were repeated on the dusty canvas.

It seemed too wonderful to be true, yet it was true that she had chosen to put on the gown
in which its owner had long ago stood for her portrait. And the knotted curls just above the
picture-forehead were like little ruddy leaping flames.

Just at first glance Barrie thought that she was exactly like the picture; but when she had
wiped the dust off the canvas, and saw the painting clearly, she began to realize and count
the differences. The portrait was that of a young woman, not a girl still almost a child. Knowledge
and love of the world glittered in the great dark eyes which turned up ever so slightly at
their outer corners in a curiously bewitching way. Barrie's eyes were dark too, but they were
hazel, and could look gray or even greenish yellow in a bright light; but the eyes in the picture
were almost black, and full of a triumphing consciousness of their own fascination. The artist
had hinted at dimples, and these Barrie's cheeks repeated; but the girl's face was in shape
a delicate oval, though the chin was as firm as if a loving thumb and finger had pinched it
into prominence. The face on the canvas was fuller, shorter, squarer, and its chin was cleft
in the middle. The mouth was smaller and more pouting--a self-conscious, petulant mouth; but
Barrie thought it beautiful, with its flowerlike, half-smiling red lips.

"Mother--mother!" she said, "darling, lovely mother! Oh, if you could only talk to me! If you
could only tell me all about yourself!"

As she spoke aloud something moved in the garret: a board creaked, a struck chair or table
scraped along the uneven floor, and Mrs. Muir appeared round a corner of the piled furniture.
Barrie stiffened herself, standing up straight and tall and defiant, ready for battle, holding
the portrait as if it were a shield. But she was not prepared to see Mrs. Muir start back,
stumbling against something which fell with a sharp crash, nor to hear her give vent to a squeal
of terror. It was anger the girl had expected to rouse, not fear, and she faced the old housekeeper
from her distance in blank astonishment.

They stood staring at each other across the shadows lit by floating motes of gold; and Mrs.
Muir's large, pallid face looked, Barrie thought, as if it had been turned to gray stone, the
gray stone of the carved monuments in the family burial-ground. For a moment neither spoke,
but at last some words seemed to drop from the old woman's mouth, rather than be deliberately
uttered:

"May God have mercy on me!"

"What is the matter?" Barrie exclaimed, the strange spell broken; but instead of answering,
Mrs. Muir gasped, and then broke out crying, a queer gurgly sort of crying which frightened
the girl. She did not dislike the housekeeper, and she was so genuinely distressed as well
as surprised at this strange exhibition, that she would have set down the portrait to run to
Mrs. Muir's succour if at that moment the stillness of the garret had not been wakened by the
tap, tap of a stick. Somebody was coming up the stairs, hobbling, limping, yet hurrying with
extraordinary energy.

There was only one person in the house, or maybe in the world, whose coming made that noise,
that mingled hobble, rush, and tap: Grandma.

Barrie and Mrs. Muir continued to stare at one another, but their expression had changed. The
approach of a danger to be shared in common had made the enemies friends. "This is going to
be awful. What shall we do?" the old eyes said to the young and the young eyes said to the
old. Mrs. Muir had forgotten her burning wish and intention to scold Miss Barribel; nevertheless,
the housekeeper was not to be trusted as an ally. Under the lash of Mrs. MacDonald's tongue
she would defend herself, and Barrie would go to the wall. But the spirit of the martyr was
in the girl, and when the first dread thrill of the tap, tap on the garret stairs had subsided
in her nerves, she remembered her wrongs and her mother's wrongs, and was not afraid of Grandma.
She girded herself for war.

The tapping came nearer. Mrs. MacDonald was grievously crippled with rheumatism. Only a strong
incentive could have urged her up the steep straight stairway, with its high steps; but Grandma
was indomitable. Lurching like a ship in a heavy sea, she swept round the corner and brought
herself to anchor by planting her stick with a crash on the wavy oak floor. There she stood,
the grim and hard old craft that had weathered a hundred storms and refused to be dismayed
by any. She must have been alarmed by the housekeeper's scream and the crash of falling furniture,
and the figure in the coral satin dress was at least as startling for her as for her old servant;
but she gave no cry, and her face looked as it always looked, hard, and stern, and passionless,
as her gray eyes travelled from granddaughter to housekeeper, from housekeeper to granddaughter.

"What is the meaning of this?" she inquired in her worst voice, which Barrie always thought
like the turning of a key in an unoiled lock.

"This, ma'am?" quavered Mrs. Muir, unused to the pangs of guilty fear, and bitterly ashamed
of them. "Why, I'd been up here getting some more moth-balls out of the chemist's store-box,
and while I was gone Miss Barribel----"

"You must have left the stairway door unlocked, woman."

"For the first time in my life, ma'am, I did." The answer was an appeal for justice if not
mercy. It was an awful thing to be called "woman" by the mistress, and to be impaled on that
sharp gray gaze never sheathed behind spectacles. Mrs. Muir was not one to quail easily, but
she had been at fault, and she realized how her small sin of omission was leading up to consequences
more momentous than anything which had happened in this house for seventeen years. In a flash
she remembered, too, that it was just seventeen years ago this month of August since the first
wearer of the coral satin had gone forever.

"That is no excuse," said Mrs. MacDonald. "There are some things it is a sin to forget. Locking
the garret door is one, you well know why. Now the mischief is done."

"Who'd ha' dreamed, ma'am, that Miss Barribel would ha' bin on the watch like a cat for a mouse----"

"It's no question of dreaming, but experience. You ought to know as well as I do that unfortunately
the girl is always on the watch for anything she ought not to see or do. It is in her blood.
These many years I have struggled to crush down inherited tendencies, and keep her on the straight
path I would have her father's daughter tread. Yet how have I succeeded? Every day shows how
little. This is only one instance among many."

The pale cold eyes, having chilled Mrs. Muir's blood, turned to do their work of icing Barrie
into subjection; but the girl's veins ran fire. For once, Grandma was powerless to make her
feel a frozen worm.

"I wish I'd known before that my mother's things were here," she said, in a clear, loud voice.
"I'd have broken down the door to get to them. They're mine--all mine. I will have them."

"You will not," Mrs. MacDonald answered. "Set that portrait back where you found it with its
face to the wall. Take off that immodest, outrageous dress, and put on your own decent one.
Fold up the scarlet abomination and lay it in the trunk with the rest of the brood."

Somehow that word "brood" in connection with her lost mother's gay, pretty garments made Barrie
see her grandmother through a red haze. "It's the things you say, not mother's lovely clothes,
that are exactly like a brood of horrid, ugly imps!" she cried. "Always you've kept everything
about her a secret from me, but you can't go on doing it now. I've seen her beautiful picture.
I know it's hers without any telling. Nothing can make me believe it isn't, no matter what
you say, either of you. So you may as well tell me all about her. I won't move till you do."

"So be it, then," said Mrs. MacDonald in an iron voice. "The time had to come some day. Let
it be to-day, though for your father's sake I would have spared you the knowledge until you
reached your twenty-first year. Do not flatter yourself that your threat 'not to move' has
the smallest effect on me. It has none. If I chose, I could force you to obey me this instant,
and put those reminders of sin out of my sight. But if you have any sense of shame in you,
any affection for your father's memory, it will be the severest punishment I can inflict to
tell you the truth while you are wearing that dress and looking at the face of that portrait."

Despite her inward flame of fury, which did not wane, the girl was struck into silence by her
grandmother's tone and manner. She stood very still and white in the coral satin.

"You can go now, Muir," said Mrs. MacDonald. "What is to come must be between me and my son's
child."

Without a word the housekeeper turned and went away. Perhaps she was glad to escape. And now
that her own scolding was over, there was sympathy in the last look she threw the girl.

There was a certain vague and very dim sense of gratitude in Barrie's heart toward Mrs. MacDonald
for what she had just done. For Barrie did not want other ears to hear evil words spoken of
her mother, and she was sure that they would be spoken.

Not until the stairs had ceased to creak under the departing feet did Grandma again open her
lips. She had seemed to be thinking intently, as if making up her mind how to begin. Perhaps
she was praying for guidance, Barrie told herself; but the morning and evening prayers in the
dining-room with a few servants assembled were like harangues or didactic instructions to Heaven
rather than supplications. Barrie thought that her grandmother had created a God for herself
in her own image, and considered that she had a right, therefore, to tell Him what to do. Why
should an all-good, all-wise God create a disagreeable, unkind person like Grandma? It didn't
stand to reason. And Miss Hepburn was of opinion that God was indeed beneficent, in spite of
those eternal fires in which she, almost equally with Grandma, fervently believed.

When there was no further sound of the housekeeper, Mrs. MacDonald began to speak, slowly and
very deliberately.

"My son married against my will. His father was dead, and a woman's authority was not enough,
for he was stubborn, though a good son until she got hold of him with her witcheries and her
false charms. He met her in London, and took her out of the theatre, where he had no business
to go; and if he never had gone, all our troubles would have been saved. The woman was a play-actress--a
light, frivolous creature with no more sense of moral responsibility than a butterfly."

"Butterflies are beautiful!" Barrie broke in. "God made them, I suppose, just as much as He
made ants, and I'm sure He loves them heaps better." She thought of her grandmother as a big
black ant, hoarding disagreeable crumbs in a gloomy hole.

Mrs. MacDonald went on as if she had not heard.

"The woman married my son because he had money, and when she had spent all she could lay her
hands on--spent it on dresses and hats and every kind of sinful vanity--she left him and his
home, left her baby a year old, to return to the theatre, I suppose. I thank God that I still
had influence with Robert my son to keep him from running after her like a love-sick fool,
and trying to bring her back to the decent home she had disgraced. But his heart was broken
by her wicked folly. Two years they'd had together under this roof and the disappointments
she had made the boy suffer undermined his health. Two years more he was spared to me, and
then he was taken. Never once did your mother write to him or to me, not so much as to ask
whether her husband and child were alive or dead. While Robert lived, her things remained in
her room just as she had left them the night she stole away like a thief, carrying only a handbag.
There was the furniture the poor bewitched man had bought because he thought nothing in his
mother's house was fit for his wonderful bride. There were her clothes--the very dress you
have on, made on purpose to show off her brazen looks in a portrait she induced my son to order
from a painting man. There was everything, except her jewels, which she was careful to take--jewels
more fit for an empress of a heathen nation than a self-respecting Englishwoman: and that is
where the root of the mischief lay. She wasn't English. I warned my son in the beginning when
he wrote of his infatuation. I said, 'It is bad enough that she should be a play-actress; but
the daughter of an Irish father and an American mother, that is fatal!' He would not listen,
and he was punished for his obstinacy. You were no comfort to him, for, as I pointed out many
a time, you were bound to grow up the living image of the woman who had betrayed us. I told
him if he lived he'd have it all to go over again in you--maybe worse, if that could be possible,
for the sins of the fathers are visited upon the children even to the third and fourth----"

"But I thought it was my mother I was like," Barrie flung at her.

"Figuratively speaking, it is the same thing, as you well understand, unless you are a fool.
Your father was not strong enough to bear the burden which his own mistakes had bound on his
shoulders. He left the responsibility of bringing up that woman's daughter to me, and under
Heaven I have done my best. I have kept you away from vanities, hoping that in spite of all
you might remain unspotted from the world. But blood will tell. To-day I find that, as your
mother before you stole like a thief out of the house, so you have stolen into this place,
which was forbidden you, to gratify your curiosity and your vanity. I find you as bold as brass
parading in that low-necked red dress, which I told your mother was a shame to any woman when
I saw her flaunting in it. Now you know what she was, and what you are and are like to be.
I tell you again, take off that gown as you would tear off a poisoned toad from your flesh;
then go down to your own room and spend the rest of the day in prayer and meditation."

It was a triumph for Grandma that Barrie did not throw at her an insolent answer. For a moment
the girl did not reply at all. Then she said, in a singularly quiet way, that she would take
off the dress and put it back in the trunk, but not unless her grandmother would leave her
alone to do it. Afterward, she would ask nothing better than to go to her own room and stay
there. "I want to think," she added; "I have a lot to think about. But I shall think only good
things of my mother. What you have told me has made me very, very happy. I believed that my
mother was dead. Now I know she's in the same world with me, I could almost die of joy."

"It is like her daughter to feel that," Mrs. MacDonald returned bitterly. "If you are not downstairs
in ten minutes, I will have the door locked and keep you in the garret without food or drink
or light for twenty-four hours."

"I should love that!" exclaimed Barrie suddenly, in the manner of her old self. Nevertheless,
she descended and advertised her return to the prosaic world by closing the door loudly in
less than ten minutes after Mrs. MacDonald had gone.

She walked straight into her own room and bolted herself in. If Grandma had seen her then,
she could not have helped admitting that there was as much of Robert MacDonald in the lines
of the girl's face as of the guileful Barbara Ballantree.

II

No notice was taken of Barrie until half-past eight o'clock that night--half-past eight being
considered night in Mrs. MacDonald's house-hold. At that time, just as the hour was announced
by an old friend, the grandfather clock on the landing, who had seen the girl go into the garret,
Miss Janet Hepburn knocked at Barrie's door.

"Barribel," she called, as always pronouncing the fanciful name with a certain reluctance,
partly on principle, partly because it was known to have been chosen by "that woman." "Barribel,
by your grandmother's permission, I've brought you some supper. Open your door and take in
the tray."

A voice answered from behind the panel, "I'll open the door if you will bring in the tray yourself."

Miss Hepburn hesitated for a moment. In the dun gaslight of the corridor her sharp profile
looked eager as the face of a hungry bird. She thought quickly. Mrs. MacDonald had not yet
finished her own supper. No such frivolity as evening dinner was known at Hillard House. Soup
after dark except for an invalid would have been considered a pitfall; but the old lady liked
to linger alone over the last meal of the day, reading a religious volume by the light of a
lamp placed on the table at the left of her plate. When Miss Hepburn and Barrie finished they
always, as a matter of form, asked to be excused, though they both knew, and Mrs. MacDonald
knew that they knew, how more than willing she was to be left alone with her book. At a quarter
past nine the servants were called, they having already supped on bread and cheese. A chapter,
preferably from the Old Testament, was read, a prayer offered up, and at nine-thirty precisely
the family was ready to go to bed. Miss Hepburn had reason to believe that for three quarters
of an hour she was free to do as she wished, and she wished as ardently as she was able to
wish anything, to see Barrie. She had heard next to nothing of the day's events from Mrs. MacDonald,
whose companion she was supposed to be now that the girl no longer needed her whole morning's
services as governess. And from Mrs. Muir, into whose room she had slipped at tea-time, very
little had been dragged out. Yet it was certain that something tremendous had happened. If
she wanted to know what, her one hope lay with Barrie.

"Very well," she said, with the proper mingling of kindness and dignity, "I will bring in the
tray."

The door immediately opened, and closed again after the flat figure of Miss Hepburn. Barrie
thought that if the good Janet had been born a fish she would have been a skate, or at roundest
a sole. Even her profile was flat, as if the two sides of her face had been pressed firmly
together by a strong pair of hands. She wore her hair very flat on her head, which was flat
behind; and just at the nape of the neck was a flat drab-tinted knot, of almost the same grayish-yellowish
brown as her complexion. On her flat breast was a flat brooch with a braid of pale hair as
a background. Even her voice sounded flat in its effort at meekness and self-repression, calculated
to appease Mrs. MacDonald in trying circumstances. Miss Hepburn looked about forty-five; but
she had always looked forty-five for the last twelve years, and Barrie could hardly have believed
that she had ever been younger.

"Your grandmother thinks that you have now been sufficiently punished," she announced, "and
you are to come down as usual to prayers."

"Oh, am I?" echoed Barrie. "We'll see about that. As for punishment, if it pleases Grandma
to think she's punished me, she may. I don't care. She couldn't have made me come out of my
room to-day if she tried. But I don't bear you any grudge, Heppie. I'm very glad to see you.
I want you to tell me things."

"What things?" inquired Miss Hepburn. "I didn't come to talk. I am here simply to see you begin
your supper. You must be--er--very hungry."

"I've had plenty of food all day," said Barrie--"food for thought." She cleared a place on
the one table by pushing a few school-books out of the way. She had been sitting in the twilight,
for she was not allowed to have matches. Their possession might have tempted her to burn gas
after ten o'clock, when at latest all lights had to be out. Now, Janet Hepburn brought a box
of matches on the tray; and the gas, when lit, showed the sparsely furnished room with its
gray-painted, pictureless wall, against which Barrie's red hair glowed like a flame. Outside
the open window the old ivy and the young peeping roses, which had been green and pink and
gold in the twilight, lost their colour as the gas flared up, and evening out of doors darkened
into night.

"I've brought you bread and cheese with a slice of cold beef," announced Miss Hepburn, "and
Mrs. Muir has baked you a potato, but I am not sure whether your grandmother would approve
of that. She distinctly said a cold supper."

"Will you please thank Mrs. Muir for me?" Barrie asked.

"You can thank her to-morrow."

"I mayn't have a chance. Do thank her for me to-night. Say I wanted you to."

"Why are you in such a hurry?"

"Oh--just because. Will you?"

"Yes, I will try, after prayers, when she is shutting up the house. Now, eat your supper."

"I don't want to, yet. Please, Heppie, dear Heppie, tell me what you know about my mother.
You weren't here when she was, but you're a kind of cousin of Grandma's, and you must have
heard all about her."

