PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 152.

April 25th, 1917.

CHARIVARIA.

THE Gazette des Ardennes states that German is becoming a more and more "popular tongue" in
the occupied districts. The inhabitants, we understand, are looking forward with great pleasure
to telling the Huns in German what they have always thought of them in French.

       ***

It is now reported that, following the example of Professor SMYTHE, of Chicago, a number of
distinguished Americans have bequeathed their brains to the Cornell Institute for scientific
research. The rumour that the German CROWN PRINCE has offered the contents of his headpiece
awaits confirmation.

       ***

The British offensive has been arrested, says the Vossische Zeitung. Presumably for exceeding
the speed limit.

       ***

A gossip-writer says he is of the opinion that there will be a great revolution in Germany
and that the KAISER will be at the head of it. It would be only decent to give him, say, a
couple of lengths start.

       ***

Over one million persons visited the Zoo last year. The chief attraction appears to have been
a German gentleman from the Cameroons who is being accommodated in the Monkey House.

       ***

A North London employer is advertising for men "any age up to one hundred years." The nature
of the employment is not stated, but it is generally assumed to be akin to that of our telegraph
boys.

       ***

A woman shopper in Regent Street one day last week was accompanied by a white parrot. It is
thought that this example will be widely followed by people who are not particularly good at
repartee. The KAISER is expected to retort that without the Monarchy the continuation of Count
REVENTLOW is still more precarious.

       ***

"Have you not thought," asked a distinguished cleric recently, "that all this bad weather may
be a punishment for working on Sundays?" For our part we are convinced that our cynical abandonment
of the sacred practice of throwing rice at weddings has had something to do with it.

       ***

It was stated in Parliament last week that up to April 6th only 2,800 persons had been placed
in employment by the National Service Department. The Government, it was felt, could have done
better than that by the simple process of creating another new Department.

       ***

       ***

The Journal in a recent message states that the British have ample supplies of ammunition.
The Germans near St. Quentin and Lens also incline to this view.

       ***

A resident of Northfleet, who wrote to a friend in Philadelphia in 1893, has just had the letter
returned to him through the American Dead Letter Office. It is only fair to state that the
letter was not marked "Urgent."

       ***

Fortunately in our hour of need one man at least has undertaken to do his best for his country.
Mr. FRANK HARRIS has told an American newspaper man that he does not intend to return to Great
Britain.

       ***

Owing to the increased cost of beer, several seaside resorts are announcing to intending visitors
that they cannot guarantee a visit from the sea-serpent this summer.

       ***

April 14th is said to be "Cuckoo Day" in this country, but several days before that the KAISER
promised political reform to his people after the War.

       ***

The other night a motor car driven by a French aviator, who was accompanied by three friends,
made a tour of Paris, in the course of which it ran down six policemen. It is evident that
the gallant fellow could not have been trying.

       ***

The Star is advocating the abolition of betting news in the daily papers, and it is rumoured
that its "Captain Cue" is prepared to offer ten to one that this good thing won't come off.

       ***

As a protest against the Government's attitude towards The Nation it is rumoured that Mr. WINSTON
CHURCHILL is about to buy another hat.

       ***

A safe which had been stolen from a Dublin business house has now been discovered in a field
nine miles away, but the whole of the contents are missing. It is believed to be the work of
burglars.

       ***

Potatoes are being grown on all the golf links around London. An enthusiast who is cultivating
the ninth hole on one course is offering long odds that bogey will be not less than two tons.

       ***

An electrical engineer has been sent as a substitute for a milker to a Sussex farmer, who,
with the characteristic obstinacy of his class, refuses to accept the expert's assurance that
all his cows are suffering from dry cells.

       ***

A writer in The Daily Chronicle claims that there are no railway stations in Stoke Newington.
It seems incredible that the artistic sense of a Metropolitan community could be so hopelessly
stunted.

       ***

The axe is being laid to the roots of our trees by the so-called weaker sex; and the proper
way of toasting the new woodwoman is to sing, "For she's a jolly good feller."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT SACRIFICE.

  Dark lies the way before us, O my sweet!
    Never again, until the final trumpet
  Shall sound the Cease-fire, may our glances meet
    Over the Sally Lunn or crisp brown crumpet;
  Never again (the prospect makes my soul,
    Unnerved by going beefless once a week, ache)
  Shall you and I absorb the jammy roll
      Nor yet the toasted tea-cake.

  Never for us shall any fancy bread--
    The food of vernal Love, and very tasty--
  On lip and cheek its subtle savour shed,
    Blent with the lighter forms of Gallic pasty;
  Never shall any bun, for you and me,
    Impart to amorous talk a fresh momentum,
  Except its saccharine ingredients be
      Confined to ten per centum.

  The days of decorative art are done
    That made the toothsome biscuit more enticing
  (Even our wedding-cake when we are one
    Will be denuded of its outer icing);
  Yea, purest joy of all that we resign,
    A ban is laid upon the luscious tartlet
  By him who has for your sweet tooth and mine
      No mercy in his heartlet.

  And yet, if England, in her night of need,
    Debauched by pastry-cook and muffin-monger,
  Would have us curb our natural gift of greed
    And merely mitigate the pangs of hunger,
  Let us renounce life's sweetness from to-day,
    And turn, for Hobson's choice, to something higher;
  "Good-bye, Criterion!" let us bravely say,
      And "Farewell, Rumpelmeyer!"

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PROPER PROPORTION.

(An Interview with Mr. H.G. WELLS).

I found the Sage, as I had expected, in his study at Omniscience Lodge. There he sat in his
new suit of Britlings, surrounded by novels and stories in MS. dealing with every aspect of
human affairs, sixty of the more important being specifically devoted to the War and the various
ways in which it might conceivably terminate. I modestly approached and presented myself.

"You have come," he said with a courteous gesture, "to discover my views on the present conflict?"

"Not exactly," I said.

"Ah," he said; "which is it, then? You can take your choice, you know. All you have to do is
to select the subject," and he handed me a volume resembling Kelly's Directory in size and
colour, and entitled "Classified Catalogue of Subjects on which Opinions can be furnished at
the Shortest Notice." I turned the pages breathlessly until I came to "Class V, Voter; sub-class
P, Proportional Representation." "There," I said, "is what I want," and I pointed the place
out to him.

"Dear me," he said, "you desire guidance on a very simple matter."

"Well," I said, "I'm not so sure about that. It has rather flummoxed us in our office. We can't
make head or tail--"

"You may thank your stars," he interrupted, "that you've come to the right shop. I'll make
it all as clear as daylight in two shakes of a pig's whisker. Are you ready?"

I said I was, and he began to pour forth at once.

"Imagine," he said, "a constituency of 40,000 voters who elect four representatives. Obviously
anyone who gets 40,001 votes is elected. Well then, there are ten candidates. All you have
to do is to take the quotient of x divided by y, where x can be raised to the nth power and
y can be raised to the nth-1, and add to this the least common denominator of the number of
votes cast for the last three candidates, taking care to eliminate in each case the square
root of z, where z equals the number of voters belonging to the Church of England, minus Archdeacons
and Rural Deans, but inclusive of Minor Canons and Precentors. Do you follow me?"

"Ye-es," I said.

"I thought you would," he said. "Next we proceed to take the multiples of the superhydrates
mathematically converted into decimals, and then, allowing, of course, for the kilometric variation
of the earth's maximum temperature reduced by the square of the hypotenuse, you begin the delicate
operation of transferring votes from one candidate to another in packets of not less than one
hundred. That's easy, isn't it?"

"Oh, yes," I said, "that's quite easy."

"Very well then," he said. "You have now got two candidates elected, A. and B. You take from
them 653 votes, which do not legitimately belong to them, and you mix them up with the surplus
votes of the remaining eight candidates. Unless C. is a congenital idiot, or a felon, or otherwise
incapacitated, he will then be found to have 4,129 votes, and he too will be elected. For the
last place you must proceed on a basis of geometrical progression. There are still seven candidates,
but four of these have no earthly and must be withdrawn by a writ of Ne exeat regno, taking
with them the 2,573 votes which are properly or improperly theirs, and leaving 3,326 votes
to be added to those already recorded for D., who, being thus elected into the position of
fourth letter of the alphabet, will be returned as elected on the Temperance and Vegetarian
ticket. So finally you get your members duly elected without the blighting interference of
the Caucus and the party wire-pullers generally. You see that, of course?"

"Yes," I said, "I suppose I see it."

"Of course you do, and the others will see it too. And they'll realise that the House of Commons
will be a different place when the old system is destroyed and every shade of opinion is represented.
But what chiefly appeals to me in it is its extraordinary simplicity and perspicuous ease.
A child could perform the duties of counter or returning officer, and any voter, male or female,
can master the system in about five minutes."

I thanked Mr. WELLS for his courtesy and staggered dizzily back to Bouverie Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

On "How to Dig," from a recently-published military manual:--

    "To dig well one must dig often. Any series of complex co-ordinated
    movements can be performed with the greatest economy of effort only
    when they have become semi-reflex; and for this to happen the
    correlated series of nervous impulses must be linked up by higher
    development of the brain cells."

A spade is useful, too.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "I did not hear yesterday of the insufficiency of bread supplied at
    Restaurants being made up by cakes and guns brought from home."--Irish
    Paper.

We have heard, however, of an insufficiency of alcoholic refreshment being made up by a "pocket-pistol."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "After all, the custom of marrying only into Royal houses came to us
    from Germany, and dates from the Hanoverians.... The case of Henry
    VIII. is well known. Four of his wives were plain Englishwomen...."--
    Sunday Herald.

Not so plain, however, as the German one, ANNE OF CLEVES.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MOST IMPORTANT THING.

I.

Lewis Gun Officer.--... So let me repeat and impress upon you, men, that the rifle is an effete
weapon--extinct as the--what-you-call-it bird. It played its part, a good part, in the South
African War, but we who observed what the machine gun did then and foretold its immense development
[he was just nine years old at that time] knew that the rifle would soon be in the museums
along with the bows and arrows. Pay attention, Private Jones. The Lewis Gun, the weapon of
opportunity, is a platoon in itself. I don't know what the Government want to worry about men
for. The Germans don't fill up their front trenches with a lot of soldiers to be killed with
shrapnel. No, a machine gun every twenty or thirty yards is quite enough to hold any defensive
line. So just bear these things in mind; and don't forget what we have learnt to-day. All right.
Nine o'clock to-morrow.

II.

Physical Training Sergeant-Instructor.--Forward be--end. Ster--retch. Be--end. Ster--retch.
Feet together--place. 'Ands--down. Stan--zee. Squad --'shun. Fingers straight, that man. Wotjer
say? WOT? I can't 'elp wot the drill-sergeant tells yer. When I sez "'Shun" I want fingers
straight down. On the command "Sitting--down" every man sits down tailor- fashion. Sitting--down.
[This is the position in which Swedish drill squads hear words of wisdom.] Listen. An' look
at me over there--not that I likes the look of yer--'as to put up with that, but when I torks
I wants attention. Let me arsk yer this. Wot sort of men do we want in France? Why, fit men.
'Ow do yer get fit? I makes yer fit. 'Ow? Why, physical. Wot's the good of a bloke in the trenches
if he's sick parade every bloomin' day? Arsk any of the serjents who is it wakes blokes up
and makes 'em live men? Me. In about six weeks you will be able to run ten miles before brekfast
in full marchin' order, carryin' 120 rounds, gettin' over six-foot walls and jumpin' eight-foot
ditches. Don't look frightened, Private West. I 'ave seen weedier and uglier-lookin' blokes
than you do it when I've done with 'em. One more thing....

III.

Musketry Officer.--... Therefore you see an infantry soldier has one weapon and one only--the
rifle. You fellows will be out at the Front pretty soon. Now, if a man gets up the line, no
matter how strong he is, how well drilled, if he can't use his rifle he might just as well
not be there for all the good he is to his country. All the money that's been spent on his
trainin', food, clothin'--absolutely wasted; might as well have been thrown into the sea. Why,
the other day a party of our fellows were heavin' bombs at about twenty Bosches--threw hundreds;
couldn't reach 'em. And one sniper went out and killed the lot in two minutes. And so ...

IV.

Sergeant-Instructor of Bayonet-Fighting.--On guard. Long point. Withdraw. On guard. Rest. Now,
when I snap my fingers I want to see you come to the high port and get roun' me like lightning.
Some of you men seem to be treatin' this bizness in a light-'earted way. We don't do this work
to prevent you gettin' into mischief. Not much. Wotjer join the army for? To fight. Right.
I shows yer how to fight. 'Ow many Fritzes jer think I've killed, by teachin' rookies the proper
use of the baynit? This is the goods. 'Ow are we goin' to win this bloomin' war? With the rifle?
No. With bombs? No. With machine guns? No. 'Ow then? By turnin' 'em out with the baynit. Cold
steel. That's it. An' I'll show yer where to pop it in, me lads--three inches of it. That's
all you want--three inches ... (For sheer bloodthirstiness there is no patter like that of
the Bayonet Department.)

V.

Bombing Officer.--Sit down. Smoke if you want to--and listen. My job is to teach you fellers
all about what has turned out to be of the highest importance in this trench warfare, namely,
bombs and grenades. This is a trench war; has been for three years. The nature of the fighting
may alter, of course. We all hope it will. But we must think of trenches at the moment. Now,
the German is a clever feller, and he soon saw that you'd never kill off the enemy if you just
sat down behind a parapet with a rifle in your hand. So he started inventing and developing
these things. But we're catching him up. We've caught him up. Now, this is a Mills ...

VI.

The Adjutant (after two hours' extended order drill and attack practice).--Just sit down. Close
in a bit. Light your pipes if you wish. Let me tell you that the sort of work we've been doing
this afternoon is the only way we're ever going to finish off the Hun--absolutely. You can
never win a war by squatting down in a hole and lookin' at the other fellow. No, open fighting--that's
what the new armies have got to learn. I fear it's been badly neglected; but not in this battalion.
Now, with regard to the screen of skirmishers, I want ...

VII.

Drill Sergeant.--On 'er left, form--squad. For--erd, by the ri.' Mark--time. For--erd. Wake
up, Thomson; we don't want no blinkin' dreamers in the Army. Pick up the step there, Number
Three, fron' rank. 'Ep, ri'; 'ep, ri'; 'ep, ri. Sker-wad--'alt. Stan' still. 'Alt means 'alt.
No movin' at all; just 'alt. Right--dress. Eyes--front. 'Swer. Eyes--front. Stanat--'ipe. 'Swer.
Stanat--'ipe. Stan' easy. Now listen to me, me lads. The chiefest dooty of a soljer is O-bedience.
Drill an' discipline is 'ow you gets that. Stop chewin, 'Arris. You'll be losin' your name
again, me lad. Don't pay to lose your name twice--not in this regiment it don't. You'll learn
a deal of other stuff 'ere; but take it from me it's the barrick-square work wot makes a soljer.
Wot is a soljer? Why, a drilled man. 'Ow jer think I 'ave turned some 'undreds of blankety
militiamen into the real thing? If a bloke can't stan' still on parade I don't want to hear
about his doin's on the range or 'ow he can chuck a Mills. Sker-wad-- 'shun. Dis--miss. 'Swer.
No call to go salootin' me, Private McKenzie. I ain't an orficer--yet. Dis--miss.

Private Jones (young and keen, and a trifle confused).--Good 'evins, Bill; they carn't all
be bloomin' well right, can they?

Lance-Corporal Smith.--No, boy. It's the 'appy mejium we gets wiv 'em all, yer see. That's
it--the happy mejium.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW NOTE IN THEATRICAL ADVERTISING.

    (The sort of thing we are now getting in the daily papers in place of
    the antique boastings of expenditure and magnificence.)

         FRIVOLITY THEATRE.

On Monday next, at 8 o'clock, will be produced

      THE BELLE OF BELLONA,

 A NEW MUSICAL ECONOMANZA IN TWO ACTS.

    Largely reduced Orchestra.

  Cheap Jokes.       Old Scenery.

       *       *       *       *       *

            DUST OF BABYLON

         AT THE EMPEROR'S THEATRE.

     AN UNSPECTACULAR TALE OF THE EAST.

         Practically no Costumes.

Support the production that saves money on wardrobe expenses.

       *       *       *       *       *

We understand that Miss Taka Topnote, the well-known revue artiste, is bringing an action for
defamation against the dramatic editor of The Morning Chatterbox, who recently published a
statement that her salary was fifteen hundred a week. The lady informs us that as a matter
of fact she is now drawing thirty-five shillings, with half fees for matinees.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Buckram, the famous actor-manager, writes: "A great deal of nonsense has been published
about the so-called stupendous sums supposed to be expended on my shows. How such stories get
about I am at a loss to imagine. Thus my present entertainment is reported to have cost me
L25,000 before the curtain rose. All I can say is that, were this the case, the curtain would
never have risen at all. To speak by the book (which anyone is at full liberty to inspect)
I find my total initial outlay to have been L43 11s. 5d., inclusive of free drinks at the dress-rehearsal.
All the members of my cast are paid as little as possible, usually in postage- stamps."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is stated that the new problem play shortly to be produced at the Vegeterion Theatre will
be unique in the matter of economy. It will be played throughout upon a bare stage, the scene
represented being "A Theatre during Rehearsal." The cast will be entirely composed of stage
hands and dramatic students; moreover, as both the dialogue and situations have been gratuitously
borrowed from other works of a similar character, there will be no author's fees. The very
gratifying result of these measures is that the management is enabled to present to the public
an entertainment that has cost nothing at all. Patriotism could no further go.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Meanwhile, the turnip trade is booming, and prices going higher: People seem to be talking
to them in place of potatoes."--Newcastle Evening Chronicle.

Yes, and their language is often very regrettable.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO FRANCE.

  If so it be for every generous thought
    Spring scents are sweeter yet.
  For every task with high endeavour wrought
    Earth's gems are fairer set--
    Primrose and violet;

  If for each  noble dream  in dormant seed
    The life-spark stirs and glows;
  If for the fame of each heroic deed
    Some bloom the lovelier grows--
    White lily or red rose;

  Then, France, thou shouldst be lavish of thy flowers
    For all our dead and thine,
  And for all women's tears, or thine or ours,
    Put forth some tender sign--
    Heartsease or eglantine.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHILDREN'S TALES FOR GROWN-UPS.

THE JUDGMENT OF THE ASS.

VII.

It was in the year that the donkey was elected judge, because only he and the mule came to
vote and the mule spoiled his voting-paper.

The weasel came before the court to make a serious complaint against the rat.

"Most learned judge," said the weasel, "the rat came to me for advice. 'Tell me,' he said,
'how I can obtain a delicious piece of cheese I have seen.' I showed him how he could get it.
He ate the cheese, and since then he has not ceased to revile me."

"Most unjust," said the judge. "What has the rat to say?"

"The rat does not appear," said the mule, who was usher.

"And why not?" asked the judge.

"He is still in the trap," said the usher.

"I showed him the way in," said the weasel proudly.

"But not the way out," said the rat's prospective widow.

"He only asked me how he could get the cheese, and I showed him," said the weasel.

"The weasel shall have the reward of virtue," said the judge. "As for the rat I shall fine
him for contempt of court in not appearing."

"Justice!" cried the rat's prospective widow. "I demand my husband."

"You shall have him," said the ass. "I order the weasel to show you the way into the trap."

       *       *       *       *       *

An Indian Circus handbill:--

"Programme of the Bengal Grand Cirkcus Co: Performings begin P.P.M.

PART I.

1. Some horses will make very good tricks.

2. The Klown will come and talk with the horses therefore audience will laugh itself very much.

3. The lady will walk on horses back when horses jumping very much.

4. The Klown will make a joking word and lady will become too angry, then Klown will run himself
away.

5. The boy he will throw a ball to upside and he will catch the ball in downward journey.

6. This is very jumping tricks.

PART II.

