But God had prepared a new trial for His servant. We have already told how Father Vianney had
founded and under great difficulties had carried on the home for neglected children called
the "The Providence." The time had come when this useful institution was to be taken from his
control. The board of education had found fault with the home as being neither a regular school
nor a hospital. The clergy criticised its management by lay persons, until at last the bishop
was prevailed upon to put the institution in charge of a religious order, and the cure, although
sore at heart, subscribed to the deed of surrender in November, 1847. Thereupon the Sisters
of St. Joseph from Bourg were put in charge of the institution, which came to be known as a
"Free School for Girls." Soon it became evident that this blow, hard as it was, but in which
Father Vianney as ever beheld the finger of God, turned out to his profit, for all the powers
of his body and mind henceforth were devoted to the single purpose of the conversion of sinners,
who kept coming to Ars in ever increasing numbers.

Before we speak further on this point, we must draw attention to an event that took place in
the year 1843. In May of that year, Father Vianney became ill as a result of overwork. So serious
was his condition that he received the last Sacraments. There was universal sorrow in the village
and the church was constantly filled with parishioners who prayed that he might be spared.
But the physicians gave no hope. One of them as he touched the cold hand of the motionless
figure, exclaimed aloud: "He has only a few moments to live."

The dying man heard plainly the verdict pronounced over him and at that same moment, as he
afterwards declared, he was seized with such terror of the supreme judgment of God, that he
besought the intercession of the Blessed Virgin and of St. Philomena, and he implored the Almighty
through them to vouchsafe to postpone the awful moment of his appearance before Him. His prayers
were heard.

To the great astonishment of those present the vitality of the man, sick apparently unto death,
returned and, on May 19th, Father Vianney was able to be carried into the church amidst the
rejoicings of his children, and there he prayed at length before the Tabernacle. But at this
time he made a resolution which, earlier, he could not have carried into effect. His bishop,
seeing the great amount of work which had to be performed at Ars, had sent him an assistant
priest, to whom, in his humility, Vianney considered himself subordinate and, knowing that
there was some one now to take his place, he decided to retire from his pastoral work and to
spend the rest of his "poor life," as he called it, in some remote monastery. To carry out
this purpose he planned to flee from Ars under cover of the darkness and mist. But his project
was betrayed by his friends at the "Providence" to whom he was obliged to give necessary instructions
regarding the future care of the children. Great excitement immediately prevailed among the
parishioners and the many visitors, and they quietly surrounded the rectory in order to prevent
his escape. The pastor, however, managed to elude them and made his way through a path in the
garden which had been overlooked and hastened to his birth-place at Dardilly.

Thereupon the sheep went in search of their shepherd, but as soon as they discovered him in
his home he fled farther away, they still following him. At last, moved by the distress which
his departure had caused and the appeals made to him by the inhabitants of Ars to return to
them, he concluded that it was the holy will of God that he should return and resume the heavy
burden of his pastorate, from which he had hoped to be relieved. All thought they had surely
won him back, but later on the Blessed Vianney made two other efforts to lay down his pastoral
cares and to retire into a monastery, there to work out his own salvation. But God granted
the fervent petition of the people of Ars and caused these plans to come to naught.

CHAPTER IV. PILGRIMAGES TO ARS.

NOT only to the villagers, but in a greater degree to the pilgrims who journeyed to Ars, Father
Vianney's departure would have been particularly disappointing. As early as the period between
1825 and 1830, these remarkable pilgrimages had taken place. So great was the multitude of
people who kept coming that increased traveling accomodations had to be arranged between Ars
and the outlying country places.

The pilgrims arrived from every province of France; others came from Belgium and England; some
from America. At Ars one met bishops and cardinals, prefects of state, university professors,
rich merchants, bankers, men and women of ancient and noble lineage, side by side with an innumerable
army of priests and religious. As yet the newspapers had not published any account of the wonders
accomplished there. Only by word of mouth was the fame of the cure made known, and this unending
procession of pilgrims was merely the result of the personal experience of those who had already
come under Father Vianney's influence.

With ever increasing wonder the new arrivals observed the great power which that humble priest
exercised over souls. Every day in the aisle of the church two rows of men, numbering from
sixty to a hundred, awaited their turn to go to confession in the little sacristy. If the question
were put as to how long they had been waiting there the answer sometimes was: "since two o'clock
in the morning," or, "since midnight, as soon as the cure had opened the church." The stranger
would learn with astonishment that men from the highest walks of life had frequently waited
patiently a whole day and night, not in order to assist at some great ceremony, but to submit
themselves humbly to the guidance of the cure in the matter of the welfare of their souls.

The church was equally crowded elsewhere, and it was no unusual thing to find two hundred women
or more waiting their turn to confess their sins. The spectacle of those men and women absorbed
in prayer continued from hour to hour and from day to day. As a rule Father Vianney heard confessions
daily for sixteen and even eighteen hours and this almost superhuman practice continued for
a period of thirty years.

At seven or eight o'clock in the morning the cure said Mass and gave Holy Communion. After
Mass he blessed the articles of devotion presented to him at the altar rail, as well as the
little children that were brought to him. At eleven o'clock he moved through the crowded ranks
of those present and, ascending the pulpit, he delivered a plain but impressive sermon on the
truths of holy faith. He who formerly could preach a sermon only under the greatest difficulty,
now manifested an imperturbable calm and assurance, for the Divine grace so noticeably inspired
his addresses that in many cases, according to the evidence of the different pilgrims themselves,
it so happened that his words touched the very ones who, up to that time, had remained in their
sins, and, his affecting appeal to them to consider the awful state of their souls, removed
the last obstacle to their reconciling themselves to God.

At first, indeed, Father Vianney was greatly distressed when circumstances necessitated his
preaching without special preparation; yet, as in this he saw only the will of God, he abandoned
himself with complete resignation to the Divine plans, and thus became, although he had no
suspicion of it himself, a most eloquent apostle. In his sermons he was accustomed to recall
the scenes of his early life as a farmer lad, and he employed the analogies and arguments drawn
from external nature and, according to his own statements, it was evident that there was nothing
in the visible world that had not reminded him of God and of eternity. Besides these expressive
comparisons, Father Vianney's sermons frequently described incidents drawn from his personal
experience.

Thus, one day, speaking of lukewarm Christians, he said: "You there behold a tepid soul, which
for the most paltry excuse starts to gossip while praying. Does this soul really offer to God
the day's work? Does it return Him thanks and glorify Him? Without doubt the lips will speak
the words, but for the most part no thought is given to what is said. The soul never ceases
to busy itself with the things that are only of this world."

"Again," said he, "we notice a man in church, turning his hat round and round in his hand.
Or, we observe in her home a woman, who said grace while cutting bread for the children or
while putting wood on the fire, or she interrupts her prayers to call the help."

As a man of the people, Father Vianney knew that in order to hold their attention nothing was
so serviceable as to give them a faithful portrayal of every day life. In his discourses he
always reverted to the fundamental truths of faith and placed vividly before his auditors for
their consideration, the four last things. Ever and anon he would return to the necessity of
man's loving God; that this love ought to be as natural to men as song was to the bird. It
was impossible for him to preach without referring to the unspeakable joys which arise in the
soul of man through a self-sacrificing love of God.

As soon as the sermon was at an end the people hastened to the village green, where the good
cure was accustomed to pass on the way to the "Providence" and to his home, delaying on the
way to give advice and consolation to those who applied to him. Everyone called him "Father,"
a title readily admitted by all who observed his kindly manner and still, kinder speech. Father
Vianney moved, slowly through the surging throng and, although he was gentleness itself, yet
unabashed and obtrusive persons were now and again brought to reason by a quiet though firm answer.

Many an ingenious reply has been recorded of the good cure. A young girl who, from spiritual
laziness, had submitted the question of her vocation to the good cure, asked him in a loud
tone: "Father, what is my vocation to be?" To which he replied: "My child, your vocation is
to get to heaven."

At a glance Father Vianney could recognize innocent souls. It was often observed how he would
say suddenly to certain individuals: "Dear child, just go home; you have no need of me." Yet
sixteen to eighteen hours daily hardly sufficed to allow him to attend to the distressed souls
who knelt in his confessional, since for these above all God had sent the cure of Ars.

Here we arrive naturally at the important subject of the conversions that took place at Ars.
Time and again the noble priest would say: "Let us pray for the conversion of sinners!" He
declared that prayer for this purpose was one of the most pleasing that could be offered to
the good God. Without cessation he himself prayed with this intention and took upon himself
all kinds of mortification. His petitions ascended to the throne of God, who, during the thirty
years of the cure's life at Ars, was pleased to send innumerable sinners to Ars to be reconciled.
Many of these sank at his feet already prepared, for they had heard from others that it was
sweet and easy to confess one's sins to the saintly priest and under his guidance, to repent
of them with their whole heart.

On one occasion a driver knocked loudly at the door of the cure's house at midnight and asked
that his confession be heard at once. Without hesitation, Father Vianney arose and went with
him into the church. After he had reconciled him to God Vianney embraced him cordially and
gave him some warm clothing, as he noticed the man was suffering from the cold.

With many sinners the workings of grace were decidedly slower. Some had come to Ars out of
curiosity, others to unmask the cure, as they thought to do, and to make merry over the "gullible
crowd" as the pilgrims were called. But, after closely observing the holy priest for one or
two days, they lost all desire to compare him to a "town crier," and it was not long before
they joined the crowds waiting for confession.

With still another class it required a direct call of grace. Like St. Vincent Ferrer, Father
Vianney had received from God the gift of being able to read clearly into the conscience of
a sinner. Hence almost every day it happened that one would see him come suddenly out of the
sacristy and advance straight towards a person who had only just entered the church. With a
kind and earnest look he would lead him at once to his confessional. Many such penitents acknowledged
later that Father Vianney, without more ado, would mention their sins to them beforehand, reminding
them especially of those shameful matters in their past life which they might have been tempted
to conceal. Thereby he not infrequently removed the last obstacle to complete reconciliation
with God.

Among others the following incident is well attested. A certain man, thirty-two; years of age,
went to Ars in company with a friend, intending to ridicule Father Vianney. The man had with
him his hunting dog, having planned to enjoy the pleasures of the chase in the neighboring
fields. At the very moment when the cure was passing across the village square and through
the kneeling multitudes, the two friends appeared on the scene. Presently Father Vianney found
himself face to face with the curious sportsman pushing through the crowd. After a hasty glance
at the dog running at his side, the cure, without further ceremony, said to its owner: "Sir,
it were to be desired that your soul were as beautiful as your hound!" The man shamefacedly
lowered his head and, shortly after, moved by divine grace, made his confession with copious
tears and that same year adopted the life of a religious, in which he persevered until death.

Upon another occasion, among the curious spectators in the church at Ars was a highly educated
freethinker, a mocker at religion, of the Voltaire stamp. To please his wife he had accompanied
her to Ars, in order, as he expressed it, to have a look at "the old buffoon." With a scornful
air he surveyed the crowd praying devoutly in the little church. Suddenly the cure stepped
out of the confessional, advanced towards the new arrival, and, with an imposing movement of
the hand, requested him to go into the sacristy.

Astonished and confused the unbeliever followed the priest. There Father Vianney sought to
bring him to his knees. The latter declared that he had no idea of going to confession, and
that he did not believe in it. Father Vianney looked him squarely in the eyes, and under that
piercing glance the freethinker sank upon his knees. Then Father Vianney described to him his
past life, with surprising accuracy and drew from him the admission that all he had told him
was true. The light of faith was forthwith rekindled in the soul of the sinner, who, strongly
affected, cried out with violent sobs: "My God, I believe; I adore Thee; I love Thee; and beg
of Thee forgiveness!"

Father Vianney dismissed him with the words; "Dear friend, hold yourself prepared; the good
God will call you to Himself very soon!" And so it was. Two years later a stroke of apoplexy
brought to a sudden end the convert's life.

Besides reconciling sinners with God the indefatigable cure was frequently engaged in the important
work of directing souls to the knowledge and attainment of their vocation and in giving other
counsel valuable in their spiritual life. Seeking such advice there flocked to Ars, from all
parts, bishops and pastors, leaders of religious communities, fathers and mothers of families,
young men and young girls in great numbers, all eager to obtain the advice of the good priest.
The latter gave his decisions promptly, for he never allowed himself to forget that sinners
were waiting for him at his confessional. Many who thus applied declared that Father Vianney,
after listening to the first few words, was able to give his advice upon the matter at issue
with the fullest intelligence.

Upon one occasion a pastor in the diocese of Autun, presented to the cure for his opinion a
very difficult case in moral theology, involving a question of restitution. He received from
him such a prompt answer, removing all doubt that, astounded, he asked the cure where he had
studied his theology? With a motion of the hand, which conveyed an advice rather than an answer,
Father Vianney pointed silently to his prie-dieu.

We have referred to the great number of persons who applied to the cure for advice concerning
the religious vocation, but it would be a mistake to suppose that the cure advised young persons
indiscriminately to embrace the priesthood or the monastic life. Such was not the case; on
the contrary the cure dissuaded many from entering the cloister, although the parties themselves
felt strongly attracted to it. In this respect the story of Miss A. C. is instructive.

That lady wished to enter a convent. Her father, who had large property interests in the South
of France, wanted her to marry a young man who would become his successor. They agreed to ask
Father Vianney's advice and to follow it. This was in the year 1858, a few months before the
death of the blessed cure. Father Vianney listened with his accustomed kindness to the young
girl's recital, reflected a moment and then exclaimed to the surprised young lady: "My dear
child, you ought to marry!" When she referred to her desire to enter a convent, the cure interrupted
her, and said again: "Get married, and prove to all that your piety is genuine." Miss C. obeyed
and, as the wife of the young man who had asked her hand, was very happy.

At another time a pastor came to him saying that he desired to become a Dominican. Father Vianney
exclaimed: "No, my friend, this desire is unfounded; stay where you are." The pastor suggested
that as a friar preacher he could be more successful. The blessed cure replied immediately:
"Where you are placed there is always more to do than you can really accomplish!"

More than once the result shows how imprudent it was to disregard the counsels of that enlightened
man. A certain Felix B. from Coblone, came to Ars on Sept. 8th, 1854, the feast of the Nativity
of the Blessed Virgin. As Father Vianney was passing through the throng, which on that day
was very great, he noticed the young man, and walked straight towards him. Felix made known
to him forthwith his desire of entering a Trappist monastery. "Very well, dear friend," said
Father Vianney, "carry out your intention and God will bless you!"

When Felix returned home he felt so faint hearted at the thought of entering an order of such
strict observance that he postponed for two years his plan of adopting the monastic life. At
last, in 1856, as the call to the life of a religious dominated him, he entered the community
of the "Christian Brothers."

But this did not bring him the happiness which he had anticipated. He remained in this congregation
for six years, all the while in a state of unrest and discontent. The more he reflected upon
his condition the more vividly there stood before his spiritual gaze the image of the cure
of Ars (who, meanwhile, had died), and he recalled the advice he had received but had not followed.

After a hard struggle with his own stubborn nature, Felix sought release from the community
to which he was attached and asked to be permitted to enter a Trappist monastery which had
recently been founded in the arch-diocese. This was accordingly arranged. From that day all
unrest vanished and the Trappist monk found peace and contentment in the life to which he had
been advised by the cure of Ars.

CHAPTER V. MIRACLES WROUGHT BY THE CURE OF ARS.

INNUMERABLE were the miracles worked by the holy man whose history we are relating. They resemble
in their marvellous scope and variety, those of the Divine Master, who foretold the accomplishment
of wonders greater than His own in the ministry of His faithful servants. The account of the
upbuilding of the House of Providence has given us an insight into the power of the holy man
who reproduced the scriptural story of the multiplication of the loaves and fishes. We have
there seen that often many persons were fed when the larder and the granary were empty. Another
phase of the miraculous power of blessed Vianney's prayer to obtain help in time of need, the
results of which often gave proof of supernatural intervention, is seen in a good work very
dear to him, familiarly known in France as "Fondements." These "Fondements" referred to the
establishment of a fund for the perpetual offering of the Holy Sacrifice for some desired end.
Blessed Vianney established one thousand annual Masses. The "Fondements" represented a capital
of 40,000 francs. Not only did it effect a spiritual good, but going out to needy priests it
created in itself a continuous and generous contribution to charity. Some of the miraculous
interventions of Providence that touched his heart most deeply are found in his efforts in
this direction.

We shall cite but one. A member of the household of Providence relates it: "Once when Father
Vianney desired to make a "Fondement" in his church in honor of the heart of Mary, he prayed:
O, my mother! if this work is agreeable to thee, procure for me the funds to do it. That same
day, after the catechism, he said to us: "I have found 200 francs in my drawer. How good God
is!" "Well," exclaimed Jeanne Marie Chaney, "since it is miraculous silver, we must keep some
of it." "Yes!" replied the cure, "it is celestial money." Jeanne Marie kept four of the five
franc pieces, replacing them by others. She regretted she had not done the same with all the
pieces. When, a little later, he wished to increase this "Fondement" Father Vianney prayed
again in the same vein, adding, however, the request that the 200 francs must be given to him
that evening, or the gift would not be considered an answer to his petition. It was but a little
while later, when a benefactor approached him with an offering of 300 francs. His prayer was
answered. He took only the sum which he had prayed for." It was in the unceasing war that he
waged against the desecration of the Lord's day that his people beheld frequently their saintly
pastor's power over the elements. We shall cite an instance:

One Sunday in July there was a full harvest, the wheat bending to the earth. During the High
Mass a violent wind arose and threatening clouds gathered; a destructive tempest was apparently
about to break. The holy priest entered the pulpit, forbade his people to touch their crops
that day, and promised them a continuation of good weather sufficient for the gathering in
of the harvest. His prediction was verified; the storm passed over and no rain fell for twelve
days.

In the depths of human souls miracles abounded in Ars. For the conversion of sinners the holy
cure lived; for them he entered upon his thorny way of heroic penance. His whole life was characterized
by prayer, penance and self-abnegation. All counted as nothing if he could win the conversion
of his parish, dreaming not of a world to be won from beyond its borders.

His first great conversion was that of a woman prominent in the Jansenist sect for her attachment
to error and the indiscreet ardor of her proselytism. She was present during Vespers, in the
church of Ars, on a feast of the Blessed Virgin, in the early days of the cure's pastorate.
To the surprise of all, she entered the confessional after the service. The words of the holy
confessor in the sacred tribunal finished the work that his very aspect alone had begun. Her
conversion was thorough and lasting. She withdrew from her former associates and took up her
abode in the little village of Ars.

Another miracle of grace, chosen from many, is the following, briefly told:

A learned geologist was led to visit Ars. As a boy he had made his First Communion during the
reign of terror. Left an orphan at the age of twelve years he was adopted by an army officer,
whom he accompanied to Egypt. His religious experiences had been varied, for he had tested
Mohamedanism, Judaism, Protestantism and had been a disciple of Chanel, Pere Enfantine and
Cabet. On his first visit to Ars he sat facing the door through which the cure would come to
say Mass. His own words tell the result:

"His eyes met mine. It was but a look, yet it penetrated to the depths of my heart, I felt
myself crushed under his gaze." After the Mass this man was drawn by an invisible and irresistible
force into the sacristy, where stood the confessional. The grace of a return to the faith of
his youth was given to him. He died in holy sentiments two years afterwards.

Such spiritual marvels, worked by the Blessed Vianney, were of frequent occurrence. He wept
when sinners refused to weep, and they left his feet like other Augustines, to comfort the
mother bowed down with sorrow because of their sins. One young man, long lost to his God, had
been induced to go to Ars, before leaving for the army. The holy priest singled him, out among
the crowd, and beckoned to the young man, who was seized with a sudden trembling. The sacristy
door closed upon them and a miracle was wrought there and then on one who had lost his faith,
his honor and his home. He came out in tears, remained at Ars to make a retreat, and entered
an austere religious order to end his days in heroic penance.

Such are the types of miracles of the spiritual order, the dearest to him, worked by the holy
pastor of Ars, whose worst reproach to the hardened sinner was: "What a pity it is! At the
hour of death God will say to you: "Why have you offended Me. I who have loved you so much.""

The power to lay bare the hidden sins which the cure's unknown penitent concealed from him,
stands forth prominently in his life story and wrought many conversions. So, too, that other
power, which divined the future misuse of recovery and sent back the pilgrim, helped, not bodily,
but with the healing of patience and resignation, under some long borne affliction. Again,
the similar power to see the future augmentation of holiness in a soul under physical affliction
and God's will that no cure be wrought; and still another, to see some impending cross awaiting
at home a pilgrim, of whom humanly speaking, he knew nothing, and to hasten his departure;
or to know by interior sight alone, a cure wrought at a distance. Surely miraculous gifts and
all were possessed by the holy cure.

BODILY ILLS MIRACULOUSLY CURED.

Through Father Vianney were affected cures of the mentally afflicted, of paralytics from birth
or accident, of sufferers from cancer and bronchial affection. There are those whose tongue
had never spoken, whose ear had never heard, whose eye had never seen until the holy cure's
word had gone forth: "Make a novena to St. Philomena; I will pray with you."

