The sentiment such songs arouse is soft but poignant. Some songs--the "Adelaïde," for example--are
songs to make one commit suicide. But this sort of music stirs and delights while it mocks
with the sweetness which soothes us not. "She kept me awake all night, as a strain of Mozart's
might do," Keats wrote of his Charmian. There was no song this special songstress sang which
she did not make her own by a peculiar and powerful effort. Her instinct was to rouse, charm,
fascinate her little audience. Not to move her hearers was to her not to sing, and when she
sang as she wished she could sweep away his world of ideas from her listener and recreate a
new one. In one song, an Italian composition called "The Dream," she always seemed to be carried
beyond herself. In reading Tourgéneff's description of Iakof's singing I could only think of
Sara X----: "Iakof became more and more excited; completely master of himself, he gave himself
up entirely to the inspiration that had taken possession of him. His voice no longer trembled;
it no longer betrayed anything but the emotion of passion, that emotion that so rapidly communicates
itself to the hearers. One evening I was by the sea when the tide was coming in; the murmur
of the waves was becoming more and more distinct. I saw a gull motionless on the shore, with
its white breast facing the purplish sea; from time to time it spread its enormous wings and
seemed to greet the incoming waves and the disk of the sun. This came to my mind at that moment."
And as I read these words of Tourgéneff's, Sara X---- singing "The Dream" came to my mind.

A less dramatic singer, but an incomparable singer of Scotch ballads, and indeed of all ballads,
at the same period of my life made an imperishable impression upon my mind. Nothing can surpass
certain Scotch ballads for the faculty of quickening into susceptibility the elementary poetry
which underlies human nature. Every man and every woman becomes again an individual man, an
individual woman, who is moved by "John Anderson, my Jo, John," or "Auld Robin Gray." Never
was so sweet a voice as this singer's, never did woman have a higher gift of rescuing the soul
from every-day use and wont and giving it glimpses from the mountain-summit and the thrill
and inspiration which come from the wider view and the purer air. She gave her gift, she enriched
the world, and her songs are still incorporate in the hearts and souls of those who loved her.

We do not hear songs enough in our every-day life; and even from the singers on the boards
the best songs are rarely heard. There are many songs I should like to repeat the mere name
of, so much it means to me; but it might not carry the same music to others. Dr. Johnson said
of a certain work, "There should come out such a book every thirty years, dressed in the words
of the times." So there should appear at least twice in every decade of each man's and woman's
life an unsurpassed singer of old songs, who should give us not only the "Adelaïde," but "Mignon,"
"The Serenade," the "Adieu," and all the many-colored ballads on love,--plain, fantastic, descriptive,
sad, and sweet,--so that we might enjoy an epitome of our life-long musical pleasures, and
not have to cry, like Faust, but in vain, "Give me my youth again."

    L. M.

A Chess Village.

The all-pervading influence of chess observable in that peculiar region described in "Through
the Looking-Glass" is hardly less perceptible in the little, antiquated German village of Ströbeck,
not far from Halberstadt. In the eleventh century this village was noted for the devotion of
its people to chess, and they have kept this characteristic feature down to the present day.
All the inhabitants, except the very small children, are chess-players of more or less skill,
and the game is to them what the world-renowned Passion-play is to the Oberammergauers.

A great many notable men have visited Ströbeck at various times on account of its reputation
as a chess-playing community. The council-house contains numerous memorials of these visits,
which the villagers take pride in showing to strangers. Among the most highly prized of these
memorials are a board and chessmen which were presented to the village in 1651 by Kurfürst
Frederick William of Brandenburg.

In June, 1885, the chess societies of the Hartz districts held a "Schachcongress," or chess
convention, at this appropriate place. Besides the regularly-appointed delegates, a large number
of visitors came from various parts of Germany, many of whom were players of wide repute. Among
the latter was Herr Schalopp, well known as one of the best chess-players of Berlin. While
at Ströbeck, Schalopp played games with thirty-seven persons at the same time. He won thirty-four
of the games, and two of the three opponents whom he did not defeat were an old woman of the
village, and her grandson, a boy of thirteen.

The convention lasted several days, and the villagers won a large proportion of the silver-ware,
chess-boards, and other prizes offered for victory. Every house contains prizes which had been
won in such contests on former occasions. The visitors were very much surprised at the fine
playing of the village children, who, before the convention adjourned, gave a special exhibition
of their skill in the game. The time characteristically chosen for this juvenile tournament
was Sunday afternoon. Of course the early development of these small chess-players must have
been caused principally by frequent practice and constant study of the game; but students of
psychology might find in it an instance of transmitted tendency and the inherited effect of
a certain habit of thought.

Such a rustic society as Ströbeck could hardly exist anywhere but in Germany. The Italian peasants,
who give so much of their time to loto, are generally too lazy to make the mental exertion
required for chess, while in most other European countries the rural population of the lower
class entertain themselves chiefly with fights between dogs, cocks, or men who are but little
superior to either. Here in the United States there are, no doubt, lovers of chess in nearly
every village or small town, as well as in the cities; but in comparison with that of base-ball
or roller-skating its popularity is nowhere great enough to be taken into account as an indication
of mental tendencies or characteristics.

    W. W. C.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] A review of which the belles-lettres department is feeble, but which publishes excellent
articles in other departments.

[D] Known in Russian literature as Tschtedrin, one of the ablest
satirists, editor until last year of the leading scientific literary
review, now suppressed on account of its radical tendencies. Two Volumes. New York:
     Harper & Brothers.

It is not as the geographical discoverer and explorer--except incidentally and to a limited
extent--that Mr. Stanley appears in these volumes. It is as Bula Matari,--"Breaker of Rocks,"--making
roads and bridges, establishing stations, pushing the outposts of civilization into the heart
of Africa. He no longer fights his way through hostile tribes or seeks to avoid their notice,
anxious only to penetrate an unknown region, secure his own safety and that of his followers,
and report his achievements, leaving no trace behind except a recollection as of some fiery
meteor that had vanished without its portents being apprehended. He returns to make the signification
clear, a harbinger not of disasters, but of a wonderful new era of peace and prosperity. He
bestows lavish gifts, negotiates treaties, purchases territorial rights, and devotes himself
to the task of opening avenues to trade and preparing the way for colonization. The same energy
and pluck, the same spirit of persistence, that triumphed over the obstacles and dangers of
his earlier enterprises are again called into play, combined with the suavity and patience
demanded for the attainment of the present object and permitted by the ample means at his disposal
and the freedom from any necessity for impetuous haste or hazardous adventures. Experience,
counsel, and the sense of higher responsibilities have brought a calmer judgment and greater
steadiness of action, but the boyish temperament has not lost its sway, and more than one crisis
is brought to a happy issue by methods in which a love of fun mingles with sagacity and foresight
and renders their measures more effective.

The work undertaken by the Association of which Mr. Stanley was the agent is of a purely initiatory
character. The acquisition of territory and of certain rights of sovereignty under treaties
with local chiefs constitutes the "founding" of the "Congo Free State," which has obtained
the recognition of the European powers and become one of the contracting parties to the articles
adopted by the recent Conference at Berlin for regulating the commercial and political status
of the river-basins of Central Africa. Under these articles absolute freedom of trade, intercourse,
and settlement is secured to the people of all nations throughout a region of vast extent and
unsurpassed fertility, rich in natural products, not so densely peopled as to resist or restrict
any conceivable schemes of colonization, yet offering in its numerous village populations material
sufficiently available for the needs of industry and commerce and amenable to philanthropic
influences. The preparatory labors, which leave no room for doubt on this point, have been
already accomplished, with the exception of what Mr. Stanley regards as the sure and indispensable
means of opening up the resources of the country,--viz., the construction of a railway around
the rapids that impede the navigation of the Congo. That this crowning enterprise would be
highly and immediately remunerative he considers easily demonstrable. "To-day," he writes,
"fifty-two thousand pounds are paid per annum for porterage between Stanley Pool and the coast,
by native traders, the International Association, and three missions, which is equal to five
and one-half per cent. on the nine hundred and forty thousand pounds said to be needed to construct
the railway to the Pool. But let the Vivi and Stanley Pool railroad be constructed, and it
would require an army of grenadiers to prevent the traders from moving on to secure the favorite
places in the commercial El Dorado of Africa." It is, of course, to European capitalists that
Mr. Stanley addresses his appeal; and when it is remembered that their least profitable investments
have not been those which aided in the development of barbarous countries, it seems not improbable
that at no remote period a sufficient portion of the riches that so continually make themselves
wings and fly away to distant quarters of the globe may seek the banks of the Congo in preference
to those of the Hudson or the Wabash.

While holding out this tempting bait to merchants, manufacturers, and the moneyed classes generally,
Mr. Stanley declines to dilate upon the advantages of the Congo basin as a field for immigration.
That portion of it which in his view "is blessed with a temperature under which Europeans may
thrive and multiply" is at present inaccessible to settlers. It is "the cautious trader, who
advances, not without the means of retreat," who is to act as the pioneer and the missionary
of civilization, stimulating and directing the industry of the natives. The suppression of
the internal slave-trade is another object to be aimed at,--one which Mr. Stanley, in an address
recently delivered in London, held up as capable of accomplishment by an outlay of five thousand
pounds a year. What rebate should be made, on this point and on others, from the anticipations
which a sanguine temperament, that has enabled its possessor to struggle with so many difficulties
and to achieve so many enterprises, would naturally tend to heighten and render glowing, is
a question that may be reserved for those whom it directly concerns. Equatorial Africa is not
likely ever to become the home of a white population, but it need not for that reason be left
to "stew in its own juice." On the contrary, it offers on that very account a fit subject for
the experiment, which has nowhere yet been adequately tried, of developing latent capacities
for progress in races that have raised themselves above the level of absolute savagery without
attaining to those ideals which, never wholly realized, are essential to continuous improvement.
It has been found easy to enslave, to debase, to exterminate races in this condition, while
the ill success of efforts to enlighten and elevate them has led to the inference that this
is impracticable. The trial, however, will not have been made till the counteracting influences
have ceased to act, or at least to predominate, and time has been allowed for hidden forces
that may possibly exist to be called into play. As Mr. Stanley observes, "It is out of the
fragments of warring myriads that the present polished nations of Europe have sprung. Had a
few of those waves of races flowing and eddying over Northern Africa succeeded in leaping the
barrier of the equator, we should have found the black aboriginal races of Southern Africa
very different from the savages we meet to-day."

It was the spirit in which Mr. Stanley labored--the ardor and hopefulness, the unfailing patience
and good temper, with which he applied himself to the task of cultivating the good will and
securing the co-operation of the natives--that made his enterprise a success. With some exceptions,
for which he gives ample credit, his European subordinates seem to have been a constant source
of embarrassment. Possibly there may have been on his own part a lack of that administrative
ability which, acquired through discipline, imparts the skill and power to enforce it. At all
events, it is the sympathy and humor with which he portrays his innumerable "blood-brothers"--greedy,
cunning, and capricious, but untainted with ferocity, and consequently manageable, like children,
by a judicious blending of severity and indulgence--that give interest and charm to his narrative.
It has many faults and deficiencies which in a work of greater literary pretensions would be
inexcusable. The grammatical blunders with which it abounds are the least annoying, since their
grossness makes it easy for the reader to supply mentally the needed correction without effort
or consideration. Looseness of diction, repetitions and redundancies of all kinds, and, above
all, a frequent lack of clearness and vividness both in statement and description, are more
serious impediments to the wish to gain comprehension and instruction. Like most untrained
writers, Mr. Stanley imagines that, with a sufficiency of matter, it is only necessary to refrain
from striving after picturesque effects or ornate embellishments in order to attain the qualities
of clearness and simplicity. Happily, the impulsiveness that betrays itself in his style seems
to have been kept well under control in the management of his enterprise. It is always, indeed,
apparent as a leading characteristic, but it breaks loose only on occasions when it may be
safely and not unattractively displayed.

     "Life of Frank Buckland." By his Brother-in-Law, George C.
     Bompas. London: Smith, Elder & Co. Philadelphia: J. B.
     Lippincott Company.

There is a story told of Sir Edwin Landseer's being presented to the King of Portugal, who
impressively greeted the famous painter with, "I am rejoiced to make your acquaintance, Sir
Edwin Landseer, I am so fond of beasts." An equally ardent sympathy with Frank Buckland's specialty
was necessary to his friends while he was alive, and is required by those who read this delightful,
bizarre, and admirable history of a man whose fellow-feeling for all creatures endowed with
life was as broad and comprehensive as Dame Nature's for all her children. He had, it might
seem, no antipathies. Everything excited his interest, curiosity, and tenderness. Bears, eagles,
vipers, jackals, hedgehogs, and snakes roomed with him. He not only lived on intimate terms
with his zoological curiosities, petting them, training them, studying them, but he finally
ate them. As Douglas Jerrold said of the New Zealanders, "Very economical people. We only kill
our enemies; they eat 'em. We hate our foes to the last: while there's no learning in the end
how Zealanders are brought to relish 'em."

It had been the elder Buckland's habit to try strange dishes. While he was Dean of Westminster,
hedgehogs, tortoises, potted ostrich, and occasionally rats, frogs, and snails, were served
up for the delectation of favored guests, and alligator was considered a rare delicacy. "Party
at the Deanery," one guest notes: "tripe for dinner; don't like crocodile for breakfast." Thus
freed, to begin with, from the trammels of habit and prejudice, there was little in the way
of fish, flesh, or fowl which Frank Buckland did not sooner or later try, with various results.
For instance, to quote from his diary:

"March 9. Party of Huxley, Blagden, Rolfs. Had the lump-fish for dinner; very good,--something
like turtle.

"March 10. Rather seedy from lump-fish."

And again:

"B---- called: had a viper for luncheon."

He held a theory that from popular ignorance and superstition much wholesome material is wasted
which might be made useful not only in satisfying hunger, but in cheapening the prices of the
foods which new control the market. The "Acclimatization Society" was formed by his influence,
at the inaugural dinner of which everything that grows on the face of the earth and under the
waters was partaken of, from kangaroo hams to sea-slugs. These various studies and experiments,
all entered into with unequalled spirit and audacity, led up finally to the great work of Frank
Buckland's life, which was the restocking of the watercourses of his own and other countries
with the trout and salmon which had once teemed in them, but had been driven away by man's
encroachments. The success of his system of fish-culture is too well known to require comment,
having had the happiest results in all countries in which it has been introduced. But the perils
and vicissitudes encountered in procuring the ova are little realized by most people. "Salmon-egg
collecting," Frank Buckland wrote in 1878, "is one of the most difficult, and I may say dangerous,
tasks that fall to my lot." And it was, indeed, the frightful exposure attending this search
for spawn on a bitter January day in the icy waters of the North Tyne that shortened his bright,
useful career.

The biography is most instructive and valuable, besides being highly interesting. And Frank
Buckland's life was by far too rich and too many-sided to allow anything less than his full
history to give an adequate idea of his patience, his fidelity of purpose, his love of work,
and his joy in accomplishment. The birthday entries in his diary almost invariably disclose
his satisfaction and comfort in his own life and endeavors: "December 17, 1870. My birthday.
I am very thankful to God to allow me so much prosperity and happiness on my forty-fourth birthday,
and that I have been enabled to work so well. I trust he may spare me for many more years to
go on with my work."

The book abounds in droll stories, some quite new, and some already given in his lectures and
natural-history papers. He generally travelled with some curious collections in his pockets
or in bottles; and, whether these were rats, vipers, snails, or frogs, by some strange fatality
they were certain to get loose and turn up among his fellow-passengers in car or diligence.
To twine snakes around the necks and arms of young ladies playing quadrilles was another harmless
joke. "Don't be afraid," he would say: "they won't hurt you. And do be a good girl, and don't
make a fuss." He possessed an easy gift of adapting scientific theories and deductions to popular
interest and comprehension, and his "Curiosities in Natural History" and other writings undoubtedly
gave a strong impulse to the tastes of this generation, of which the many out-of-doors papers
on birds, game, and the habits of all living creatures are the result.

     "George Eliot's Poetry, and Other Studies." By Rose Elizabeth
     Cleveland. New York: Funk & Wagnalls.

Miss Cleveland's book shows wide reading, study, painstaking discrimination, enthusiastic zeal,
and, above all, the never-failing impulse of an individual idea. It reveals on every page a
healthy, well-poised womanly nature, and the opinions advanced are a part of the conscience
and moral being as well as of the intellect. The author has fed her mind and heart with high
dreams and lofty ideals, and it is not only a pleasure to her to disclose them, but a sacred
duty as well.

"When a high thought comes," she writes in "Reciprocity," "we owe that thought to the world.
A great deal of this interment of our best thought-life is justified to ourselves by the plea
that such thoughts are too sacred for utterance: a wretched sophistry, a miserable excuse for
what is really our fear of criticism." There is nothing trivial or false about the critical
and ethical views which Miss Cleveland gives bravely, although they are not invariably rendered
with the felicity and pointed phrase which come from a careful selection of words and symbols.
She is a little dazzled by the flowers and fruitage of a fancy which most of us are compelled
to curb and prune to meet the requisitions of time and space. These papers were prepared chiefly,
the dedication tells us, for schools and colleges, and a little of the pedantry and ample leisure
of a teacher who has his audience safe under his own control is apparent in them. Little goes
without saying; the whole story is told; yet it is always easy to put aside the parasitical
growth and get at the solid and useful idea. The book was not written for critics who desire
to have everything summed up in a single sentence, and who are apt to praise the volumes which
encumber the book-seller's shelves rather than those which run through seven editions in as
many days.

Like most other American essayists, she has couched many of her phrases and ideas in the Emersonian
mould. Her sentences are short; she uses a homely illustration by preference. "Independence,"
she says, "in an absolute sense is an impossibility. The nature of things is against it. The
human soul was not made to contain itself. It was made to spill over, and it does and will
spill over, always as quid pro quo, wherever lodged, to the end of time."... "There is a vast
amount of thinking which ought to be in the market. We hold our best thoughts and give our
second best."... "We do a good deal of shirking in this life on the ground of not being geniuses.
The truth is, there is an immense amount of humbug lurking in the folds of those specious theories
about genius. Let a man or woman go to work at a thing, and the genius will take care of itself."

Miss Cleveland has gathered a large audience, and it is a satisfaction to feel in reading her
book that she holds her place before them with invariable good sense, high faith, and a dignity
which commands respect.

     "Aulnay Tower." By Blanche Willis Howard. Boston: Ticknor & Co.

There is a good situation in "Aulnay Tower," but the book may be said to be all situation,
with little movement, no development, and the very slightest free play of character and motive.
The scene is laid at the château of the Marquis de Montauban, not far from Paris, at the moment
in the Franco-German war when Sedan had been fought, the emperor was a prisoner, and the Germans
were investing the capital. The marquis, his niece the Countess Nathalie de Vallauris, and
his chaplain the Abbé de Navailles, in spite of orders from General Trochu, have remained at
this country-seat, apparently indifferent to passing events. Thus it is a rude awakening when
they find the Germans knocking at the castle doors and demanding entertainment for the officers
of the Saxon grenadiers, who are quartered upon them during most of the time occupied by the
siege of Paris.

Here, then, is the situation. The Countess Nathalie, a widow of twenty-three, "a beautiful
woman, young, pale, fair-haired, stately and forbidding," confronts these invaders of her private
peace and enemies of her country, intending to freeze them by her haughtiness, her indifference,
her disdain, but carries away even from the first encounter a haunting and rankling recollection
of a tall man in blue; while the tall man in blue, Adjutant von Nordenfels, "from the moment
she stood before the officers in her cold protest and unrelenting pride," was madly in love
with the countess. The feelings of these two young people being thus from the first removed
from the region of doubt and conjecture, what few slight obstacles contrive to separate them
for a time carry little weight with the reader. There is a dearth of incident which the side-play
of the coquettish maid, Nathalie's femme-de-chambre, fails to relieve. The marquis and Manette
are the traditional nobleman and soubrette, and flourish before us all the adjuncts of the
stage. We give a fragment from a soliloquy of Manette's which suggests the foot-lights and
an enforced "wait" in a comedy during a change of dress for the principal actors: "I adore
Countess Nathalie, and am thankful for my blessings. And yet I have my disappointments, my
chagrins. To-day, for example, what a field for genius! what a chance for never-to-be-forgotten
impressions! A dozen officers! Not a woman in Aulnay but madame and me. Oh, just heaven, what
possibilities! My rich imagination dressed us both in the twinkling of an eye. For the Countess
Nathalie gentle severity was the key-note of my composition,--heavy black silk, of course.
There it lies. Elegance and dignity in the train. Happy surprises in the drapery. Fascination
in the sleeves. Defiance, pride, and patriotism in the high collar, tempered by regret in the
soft ruche.... She would have been a problem and a poem; while I, in my cheerful reds, my dazzling
white, my decisive short skirts, my piquant shoes, my audacious apron, am a conundrum, a pleasantry,
an epigram." This would be very pretty on the stage, but a waiting-maid who calls herself an
"epigram" passes our imagination under any other circumstances. In fact, Miss Howard seems
to us to be altogether on a false tack in this novel,--to have utterly abandoned realism, and
in its place to have imposed upon us scenes, characters, and actuating motives which have figured
over and over again in book and play, and to which she has not succeeded in imparting any special
vivacity or charm. The novel falls far below "Guenn," in which the author riveted and deepened
the impression of her first clever little book, "One Summer."

     "Married for Fun." Boston: Houghton, Mifflin & Co.

