THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 12, NO. 343.] SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1828. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ADMIRALTY-OFFICE.

The Admiralty Office, Whitehall, has few pretensions to architectual beauty. It is, however,
to use a common phrase, a commanding pile, and its association with Britain's best bulwarks--her
NAVY--renders it an interesting subject for representation.

The Admiralty-office adjoins to the north side of the Horse Guards, and was erected by Ripley,
in the reign of George II., on the site of Wallingford House. It recedes from, but communicates
with, the street by advancing wings, and is built principally of brick. In the centre of the
main building is a lofty portico, of the Ionic order, the taste of which is not entitled to
much praise. It consists of four columns, and on the entablature is an anchor in bold relief.
Here are the offices, and the spacious abodes of the lords commissioners of the admiralty,
together with a handsome hall, &c. On the roof of the building is a Semaphore telegraph, which
communicates orders by signal to the principal ports of the empire.

But the most tasteful portion of the whole, is a stone screen, by Adams, in front of an open
court, and facing the street. The style is exceedingly chaste and pleasing, and the decorations
are characteristic naval emblems, finely executed. The representation of two ancient vessels
in the end entablatures, merit especial notice.

Since the appointment of the Duke of Clarence to the office of lord high admiral, the Admiralty
has been the town residence of his royal highness. The exterior has been repaired, and the
interior in part refitted. The screen has likewise been renovated with much care, and two of
the entrances considerably enlarged, but with more regard to convenience than good taste. The
portion occupied by the royal duke contains a splendid suite of state rooms, within whose walls
have frequently been assembled all the bravery, as well as rank, of the empire; for the interests
of the noble service are too dear to his royal highness to be eclipsed by the false lights
of wealth or fashion.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUITAIN DE CLEMENT MAROT.

(For the Mirror.)

  Plus ne suis ce que j'ay esté
  Et ne le scaurois jamais estre,
  Mon beau printemps et mon esté
  Ont fait le saut par la fenestre.
  Amour! tu as esté mon maistre
  Je t'ai servi sur tous les Dieux,
  O si je pouvois deux fois naistre,
  Comment je te se virois mieux!

Imitation.

  I am no more, what I have been
    And ne'er again shall be so.
  My summer bright, my spring time green,
    Have flown out of the window.
  Oh love, my master thou hast been,
    I, first of gods, instal thee,
  Oh! could I e'en be born again,
    Thou doubly would'st enthral me.

D.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

TEMPLE AT ABURY.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

There is an inconsistency in the account of Abury in No. 341, perhaps overlooked by yourself.

I would ask, how could that arrangement of the fabric, so fancifully and ingeniously described
by Stukely, be intended to represent the Trinity, when the place was confessedly in existence
long anterior to Christianity? nor is there any thing in the old Druidical or Bardic tenets
that can be twisted to any such idea.

This Abury, with Silbury, is supposed to be the Cludair Cyfrangon, or Heaped Mound of Congregations,
mentioned in the Triads, the building of which is recorded as "one of the three mighty achievements
of the Isle of Britain;" and here were held the general assemblies of the Britons on religious
occasions, and not at Stonehenge, as is generally supposed. This last place is decidedly more
modern than the pile at Abury; the Welsh call it Gwaith Emrys, (the work of Emrys,) and it
ranks as another of the mighty achievements of the Isle of Britain, the third being "the raising
of the Stone of Keti," supposed to be the "Maen Ceti" at Gwyr, in Glamorganshire.

The presumption that Stonehenge is more modern than Abury is founded upon the fact that Stonehenge
exhibits marks of the chisel in different parts, while the former does not. The ancient British
documents give us the founder of the latter, namely, Emrys, or Ambrosius, while we are left
in ignorance as to who raised the pile of Cyfrangon.

Nor was Stonehenge ever of such magnitude as Abury, the diameter of the former being 99 feet,
whilst the latter was 1,400; the largest stones of the former weigh 30 tons, but the latter
weigh 100 tons!

Gwaith Emrys was possibly more for political than religious assemblies. Here was held the meeting
of the Britons and Saxons, when the Plot of the Long Knives (Twyll y Cyllyll Hirion) was consummated,
and the flower of the British chiefs treacherously destroyed by their pretended friends.

Different authors have strenuously contended for giving the honour of supremacy to either of
these places over both Britain and Gaul, in the days of Druidism; but Rowlands has industriously
placed its chief seat in Anglesey.

LEATHART.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRANSLATED EPITAPH.

As a translation of this curious epitaph (in Lavenham churchyard) which is formed out of two
Latin words, has been requested from some of your readers, I send the following:--

  What John Giles has been
    Is what he is, (a bachelor.)
  What he has not been,
    Is what he is, (a corpse.)
  To be what he is
    Is not to be, (a living creature.)
  He will have to be
    What he is not. (dust.)

JOSEPH MASON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another.

G.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS.

(For the Mirror.)

The ensuing letter, though very short, discloses one or two instances connected with a subject
of unfading interest--the death of Mary Queen of Scots. It need hardly be stated, says an able
writer on this subject, that Queen Elizabeth's conduct with respect to the execution of Mary
was a mixture of unrelenting cruelty, despicable cowardice, and flagitious hypocrisy; that
whilst it was the dearest wish of her heart to deprive her kinswoman of her existence, she
attempted to remove the odium of the act from herself, by endeavouring to induce those to whose
custody she was intrusted to assassinate their prisoner; that when she found she could not
succeed, she commanded the warrant to be forwarded; and that when she knew it was too late
to recall it, asserted that she never intended it should be carried into execution, threw herself
into a paroxysm of affected rage and grief, upbraided her counsellors, and first imprisoned
and then sacrificed the fortunes of her poor secretary, Davison, one of her most virtuous servants,
as a victim to her own fame, and the resentment of the King of Scots. These damning facts in
the character of Elizabeth are too well known to require to be dilated on; they have eclipsed
the few noble actions of her life, and remain indelible spots on her reputation as a woman
and a sovereign. But we learn from this letter the humiliating effects made by her ministers
to appease her fury, and her implacable resolution to overwhelm the unfortunate Davison with
the effect of her assumed, or perhaps real repentance. In his apology, that statesman informs
us, that on the Friday after Mary's execution, namely, on the 10th of February, arriving at
the court he learnt the manner in which the queen had expressed herself relative to the event;
but being advised to "absent himself for a day or two," and being, moreover, extremely ill,
he left the court, and returned to London. Woolley's communication being dated on Sunday, (the
manuscript is so excessively badly written as to be almost illegible,) shows that Elizabeth
did not summon her council, and evince her displeasure at their conduct, until Saturday, the
13th of February, two days after she was informed of Mary's fate. Davison had been attacked
with a stroke of the palsy shortly before, and all he says of his committal is, that he was
not sent to the Tower until Tuesday the 14th, on account of his illness; though some days previous
(probably on Saturday the 10th) the queen assembled her council.

This letter also exhibits a specimen of Leicester's characteristic meanness; for notwithstanding
that he was a party to the act of forwarding the warrant for Mary's death, as his name occurs
among those of the council who signed the letters to the Earl of Shrewsbury, the earl marshal,
and to the Earl of Kent, both of which were dated on the 3rd of February, 1586-7, commanding
them to cause it to be put into execution, he took care to withdraw from court before Elizabeth
performed the roll, which has so justly excited the scorn of posterity. It may be also remarked,
as another example of the official duplicity of the period, that Sir Francis Walsingham likewise
affected not to have been concerned in the affair of dispatching the warrant, as in his letter
to Lord Thulstone, the secretary to King James, dated at Greenwich, on the 4th of March, 1586-7,
less than a month afterwards, he says, "Being absent from court when the late execution of
the queen, your sovereign mother, happened," though we find that he signed both the letters
just mentioned.

G.B.

A Letter from John Woolley, clerk of the Council in the time of Elizabeth, to the Earl of Leicester.

To the Righte Honorable my singular good the Earle of Leycester, one of her Maties Most Honorable
Privie Councell.

RYGHTE Honorable and my moste especiall goode Lorde,--It pleased her M'tye yesterday night
to call the lord treasurer and other of her councell before her into her withdrawing chamber,
where she rebuked us all exceedingly, from our concealing from her our proceeding in the Queen
of Scott's case; but her indignation particularlye lyghteth most upon my lord treasurer and
Mr. Davison, who called us togeather, and delivered the commissione, for she protesteth she
gave expresse commandement to the contrarye, and therefore hath taken order for the committing
of Mr. Secretary Davison to the Tower, iff she contenew in the mynd she was yeterday night,
albeit we all kneeled upon our knees to praye her to the contrarye.

I think your lordship happy to be absent from these broiles, and thought it my dewtye to lett
you understand them; and so in haste I humblye take my leave.--At the Courte, this present
Sunday,[1] 1586.

Your lordship's ever most bounden,

J. WOOLLEY.

P.S. I have oftentimes sent unto John, your old servante, Mr. Norld, to pray humbly your lordship's
orders for the ordering of his case; he hath been long in prisone, and desireth your lordship's
orders for the hearing of his case, which it may please your lordship to express unto me.--Cottonian
MSS. Caligula, c. ix. fol. 168, (Original.)

    [1] 12th February, 1586-7.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Topographer

A VISIT TO STUDLEY PARK AND FOUNTAINS ABBEY, YORKSHIRE.

With a Notice of the Roman Military Road, leading from Aldborough (the Isurium of the Romans,)
to the North.

  "Yet still thy turrets drink the light
    Of summer evening's softest ray;
  And ivy garlands, green and bright,
    Still mantle thy decay;
  And calm and beauteous, as of old,
  Thy wand'ring river glides in gold."

A.A. WATTS.

Among the most attractive scenes of northern Yorkshire is Studley Park, renowned for the richness
of its sylvan scenery, which embosoms the noble ruin of Fountains Abbey.

For the date of my visit to this Arcadia, I must refer the reader to that season of life when
the pure source of thought and feeling is untainted by the world. It is eleven miles from my
home to Studley Park, five of which I walked in the twilight of a summer's evening, and slept
at a little cottage by the way. The day had been sultry, and the moon rose slowly over the
mounds of Maiden Bower, once the site of the noble mansion of the Percys, now destroyed and
desolate;[2] and fell in dreary softness on tower and wood, illumining the sable firs of Newby
Park, and throwing another lustre on the gaudy "gowans" that decked the adjacent meadow. Here
was a scene for the poetic sympathy of youth:

             "That time is past,
  And all its giddy rapture;
  Yet not for this faint I, nor mourn;
  Other gifts have followed; for such loss
  I would believe, abundant recompense."

WORDSWORTH.

The morning found me, after an early breakfast, on the road to Studley Park. Now there are
some "moods of my own mind" in which I detest all vehicles of conveyance, when on an excursive
tour to admire the antique and picturesque.--Thus what numerous attractions are presented to
us, sauntering along the woody lane on foot, which are lost or overlooked in the velocity of
a drive! On the declivity of a meadow, inviting our reflection, rises a little Saxon church,
grey with antiquity, and solemnized by its surrounding memorials of "Here lies."--Across the
heath, encircled with fences of uncouth stones, stands a stern record of feudal yore; at the
next turn peeps the rectory, encircled with old firs, trained fruit trees, and affectionate
ivy; beneath yon darkened thickets rolls the lazy Ure, expanding into laky broadness; and,
beyond yon western woods, which embower the peaceful hamlet, are seen the "everlasting hills,"
across which the enterprising Romans constructed their road. I next passed the boundaries of
Newby Park, the property of Lord Grantham. Here beneath enormous beeches were clustering the
timid deer, "in sunshine remote;" and the matin songs of birds were sounding from the countless
clumps which skirt this retreat. Within that solitude had I enjoyed the society of a brother,
alas, now no more! and yet the landscape wore the same sunny smile as when I carved his name
on the towering obelisk before him. I felt that sorrow so exquisitely described by Burns:

  "How can ye bloom so fresh and fair;
  How can ye chant, ye little birds,
  And I so weary, fu' o' care."

Leaving Rainton, a sudden rise brings you to the Roman Military Road, leading from Aldborough,[3]
the Isurium of the Romans, to Inverness, in Scotland. This road was repaired by the Empress
Heleanae, and hence the corruption, from her name, of Learning Lane, its present designation.
It was laid by the Romans, with stones of immense size, which have frequently been dug up.
The Via Appia, at Rome, which has lasted 1,800 years, resembles it in construction. Raised
considerably above the level of the country which it crosses, it is an object of wonder and
interest even to the illiterate, on account of the continuous perspective it presents; there
being no bend in it for several miles. Traversing this noble monument of art, how are we led
to think on the "strange mutations" which have overthrown kings and kingdoms in the period
of its duration, whilst the road remains "like an eternity:"

ON CROSSING THE ROMAN MILITARY ROAD, LEADING FROM ISURIUM TO THE NORTH.

  O'er classic ground my humble feet did plod,
    My bosom beating with the glow of song;
    And high-born fancy walk'd with me along,
  Treading the earth Imperial Caesar trod.

  A thousand rural objects on the way
    Had been my theme-but far-off years arose,
    When ancient Britain bow'd beneath her foes,
  Adding resplendence to great Caesar's day:

  When sounds of Roman arms through valley rung,
    And rose that glorious morn upon our isle,
    No night can hide, or cloud conceal its smile,
  That dazzling morn, which out of darkness sprung.
    Enduring cenotaph of Roman fame--
    More than this record of their mighty name!

I reached the ancient town of Ripon as the bells were merrily ringing in the towers of its
old collegiate minster, for it was the anniversary of its patron saint, St. Wilfred. After
refreshment, and a walk of three miles, I arrived at Studley Park. The fairy effect produced
on entering this beautiful retreat is almost indescribable. We suddenly exchange the field
and forest scenery for all the poetry of prospect. On the right is a declivity clothed with
laurel, and stretching far away; and on the left a lofty and well trimmed fence of laurel,
forms a screen or curtain to the valley beneath; the sighing of distant woods and the dashing
of waterfalls, break on the enraptured ear, and cause the anxious eye to long for some opening
in the verdant shroud. Anon the valley is seen; and through an aperture in the laurel wall,
cut in imitation of a window, breaks as sweet a scene as ever Claude immortalized! Unwilling
to hazard a formal description, I will merely attempt an outline. Far below, the silver waters
of the Skell meander softly amongst statues of tritons, throwing up innumerable fountain streams.
These are masterly executions after the ancient sculptors, and give the scene an air of Grecian
classicality. Around these triumphs of art, rise lofty woods of graceful birch, varied by dark
fir, and interspersed with erections of Roman and Gothic design. It is in the contemplation
of these beauties that fancy recalls the mythology of rocky woods, peopled with Dryads and
Fauns. Passing by a circuitous path to the other side of this Eden, by sloping walks shaded
with ilex, ancient oak, sycamore, cypress, and bay, we have a view of the extent of the valley,
terminating with the ruins of Fountains Abbey, and flanked by rocks, wildly overgrown with
shrubs; and before us, seen more distinctly, are the statues of Hercules and Antaeus, and a
Dying Gladiator--the Temple of Piety, in which are bronze busts of Titus Vespasian and Nero,
and a fine bas-relief of the Grecian Daughter. In front of this temple the water assumes a
variety of fantastical forms, ornamented at different points by statues of Neptune, Bacchus,
Roman Wrestlers, Galatea, &c. The banqueting-house contains a Venus de Medicis, and a painting
of the Governor of Surat, on horseback, in a Turkish habit; on the front of this building are
spirited figures of Envy, Hatred, and Malice. From the octagon tower, Mackershaw Lodge and
Wood are seen to great advantage; and from the Gothic temple, the dilapidated abbey is an object
of striking solemnity; whilst an opening in the distance shows the venerable towers of Ripon
Minster.

Wandering eastward, we arrive at the precincts of Fountains Abbey, which gradually presents
its monastic turrets midway in a dell, skirted by hills crowned with trees, and varied by rocky
slopes to the brook. This abbey was founded in consequence of the disgust which certain monks
of the Benedictine order at St. Mary's, York, had imbibed against their relaxed discipline;
when struck with the famed austerities of the monks of Rievaulx, they left their abode, and
retired to this valley, under the shade of seven yew trees, six of which were (in 1818) standing.
The abbey was destroyed in the reign of Stephen, and rebuilt in 1204.[4] The present ruin is
celebrated for the sublimity of its architecture, many parts of which are as perfect as when
first erected. The tower is 160 feet in height, and is a fine specimen of Gothic, in its best
taste. It may with safety be asserted, that no church or abbey in England can boast of such
an elegant elevation. The cloisters, 270 feet in length, and divided by 19 pillars and 20 arches,
extend across the rivulet, which is arched over to support them; and near to the south end
is a large circular stone basin. This almost subterranean solitude is dimly lighted by lancet
windows, which are partially obscured by oaks, beeches, and firs; and the gloom is heightened
by the brook beneath, which may be seen stretching its way through the broken arches. The only
tomb in the church is that of a cross-legged knight, which lies near the grand tower, and represents
one of the Mowbrays, who died at Ghent, in 1297. Near the altar is a stone coffin, in which,
according to Dugdale, Lord Henry Percy was interred in 1315. Contiguous to the church is an
extensive quadrangular court, which has been converted into a flower garden. On the east side
is a line of beautiful arches, under one of which is the entrance to the chapter-house, a weed-grown
solitude of deadly silence--

        "Where the full-voiced choir
  Lie, with their hallelujahs, quench'd like fire."

In 1791, by the removal of some fragments of ruin in the chapter-house, the sepulchres of several
of the abbots were discovered; but the inscriptions were obliterated. Over the chapter-house
were the library and scriptorium. The architecture or Fountains Abbey is mixed; in some parts
are seen the sharp-pointed windows, in others the circular arches. The great eastern window
is indescribably magnificent, being 23 feet in width. There has been a central tower, which
has long since fallen to decay. The sanctum sanctorum is 131 feet in length; over one of its
eastern windows is the figure of an angel holding a scroll, dated 1283. The total length of
the church is 358 feet. On the north side of the quadrangular court is the refectory, which
was supported by large pillars, and adjoining it is the reading gallery, where portions of
the Scriptures were delivered to the monks whilst at their meals; by the side of it are the
kitchen and scullery, the former remarkable for its spacious arched fire place. Over the refectory
was the dormitory, which contained 40 cells; and under the crumbling steps leading to it is
the porter's lodge. Near to the refectory are the remains of the abbot's chambers.

But adieu to the waning glory of Fountains Abbey and the receding towers of Ripon Minster,
while retracing my path of yesterday morning. I must linger awhile on the Roman way, where
antiquity maintains her supremacy in spite of the war of time, and where the earth looks immutable.
Now the groves of Newby Park re-appear with their "sylvan majesty," creating unutterable sympathies;
for the wind that bows the surrounding branches moves me to weep for that romantic spirit whose
ashes moulder on the shores of India, where

  "When the sun's noon-glory crests the wave,
  He shines, without a shadow on his grave."

* * H.

    [2] Here Henry Percy, the fourth Earl of Northumberland, was
        murdered by an infuriated mob, in the fourth year of Henry
        VII.; he having, as lord lieutenant of the county, levied a
        tax on the people by order of his sovereign, for carrying on
        the war in Bretague. Skelton, poet-laureat to Henry VIII.
        lamented his death in some elegiac lines.

    [3] Aldburgh, or Aldborough, so called by the Normans, was the
        Iseur of the Ancient Britons, and the Isurium of the Romans.
        Perhaps there is not another Roman city, not even excepting
        York, where so many antiquities have been discovered. The
        opening of ancient baths, burial vaults, &c. has led to
        the finding of tesselated pavements, coins, urns, rings,
        lachrymatories, seals, monumental inscriptions, medals,
        statues, chains, sacrificing vessels, &c. It is to be lamented
        that modern ignorance and barbarity are fast obliterating all
        traces of the Roman walls of Isurium; their foundations having
        been dug up for the mercenary purpose of obtaining their
        materials. We cannot sufficiently censure such irreverence to
        "hoar antiquity," or the contracted and grovelling ideas
        which actuate such village Vandals. He
        sold him also plate, without weight or ounces.

        "Subscribed, your poor Priest
        and faithful servant,
        R. LAYTON."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANECDOTE GALLERY

       *       *       *       *       *

PALEY.

Paley would employ himself in his Natural Theology, and then gather his peas for dinner, very
likely gathering some hint for his work at the same time. He would converse with his classical
neighbour, Mr. Yates, or he would reply to his invitation that he could not come, for that
he was busy knitting.  He would station himself at his garden wall, which overhung the river,
and watch the progress of a cast-iron bridge in building, asking questions of the architect,
and carefully examining every pin and screw with which it was put together. He would loiter
along a river, with his angle-rod, musing upon what he supposed to pass in the mind of a pike
when he bit, and when he refused to bite; or he would stand by the sea-side, and speculate
upon what a young shrimp could mean by jumping in the sun.

With the handle of his stick in his mouth, he would move about his garden in a short hurried
step, now stopping to contemplate a butterfly, a flower, or a snail, and now earnestly engaged
in some new arrangement of his flower-pots.

He would take from his own table to his study the back-bone of a hare, or a fish's head; and
he would pull out of his pocket, after a walk, a plant or stone to be made tributary to an
argument. His manuscripts were as motley as his occupations; the workshop of a mind ever on
the alert; evidences mixed up with memorandums for his will; an interesting discussion brought
to an untimely end by the hiring of servants, the letting of fields, sending his boys to school,
reproving the refractory members of an hospital; here a dedication, there one of his children's
exercises--in another place a receipt for cheap soup. He would amuse his fire side by family
anecdotes:--how one of his ancestors (and he was praised as a pattern of perseverance) separated
two pounds of white and black pepper which had been accidentally mixed--patiens pulveris, he
might truly have added; and how, when the Paley arms were wanted, recourse was had to a family
tankard which was supposed to bear them, but which he always took a malicious pleasure in insisting
had been bought at a sale--

  ----------Haec est
  Vita solutorum miserâ ambitione gravique;

the life of a man far more happily employed than in the composition of political pamphlets,
or in the nurture of political discontent. Nay, when his friend Mr. Carlyle is about going
out with Lord Elgin to Constantinople, the very headquarters of despotism, we do not perceive,
amongst the multitude of most characteristic hints and queries which Paley addresses to him,
a single fling at the Turk, or a single hope expressed that the day was not very far distant
when the Cossacks would be permitted to erect the standard of liberty in his capital.

I will do your visitation for you (Mr. Carlyle was chancellor of the diocese,) in case of your
absence, with the greatest pleasure--it is neither a difficulty nor a favour.

Observanda--1. Compare every thing with English and Cumberland scenery: e.g., rivers with Eden,
groves with Corby, mountains with Skiddaw; your sensations of buildings, streets, persons,
&c. &c.; e.g., whether the Mufti be like Dr. ----, the Grand Seignior, Mr. ----.

2. Give us one day at Constantinople minutely from morning to night--what you do, see, eat,
and hear.

3. Let us know what the common people have to dinner; get, if you can, a peasant's actual dinner
and bottle; for instance, if you see a man working in the fields, call to him to bring the
dinner he has with him, and describe it minutely.

