Spite of all the truculence of his language, and through all his strenuous thrust and parry,
Dr. Beecher's sincerity, integrity, and piety shine forth unclouded. Looking at this memorial
in one aspect, he seems to have assumed a charge which Mr. Lincoln has professed himself unable
to undertake, namely, to "run the churches." He evidently believed that the Lord had committed
to the clergy, of whom he was chief, the building up of a great ecclesiastical edifice, whose
foundation should be laid in New England, but whose wings should presently cover the whole
land. Individual churches were the pillars of this edifice. Now in Boston, now in New Haven,
now at Cincinnati, he watched its progress, noting a fault, praising an excellence, repairing
mistakes, strengthening weaknesses. It was the business and the delight of his life. He had
his agents throughout the country. The churches might be many, but the cause was one. Ever
watchful, ever active, he spoke of his measures and his plans in just such terse, homely phrase
as any house-carpenter would use. Doubtless the fragile reverence of many a clerical cumberer
of the ground was shocked by his familiar use of their sacred edge-tools. One can imagine the
thrill of horror with which the Reverend Cream Cheese, of the Church of the Holy (Self-) Assumption,
would hear the assertion, that "it was as finely organized a church as ever trod shoe-leather."
Our elegant Unitarian friends have probably quite forgotten, and will hardly thank us for reminding
them, that there ever was a time when they "put mouth to ear, and hand to pocket, and said,
St-boy!" Our decorous Calvinistic D.D.s would scarcely recognize their own dogmas at the inquiry-meeting,
where "language of simplicity came along, and they'd see me talking 'way down in language fit
for children.... And then the language of free agency and ability came along ... and they'd
stick up their ears.... But next minute came along the plea of morality and self-dependence,
and I took them by the nape of the neck and twisted their head off." There must have been great
inertness in New England at the time of his first visit to Boston, when "nobody seemed to have
an idea that there was anything but what God had locked up and frozen from all eternity. The
bottom of accountability had fallen out. My first business was to put it in again." The coldness
and indifference of the Church, which ministers usually employ the vivid language of the Bible
regarding the ways of Zion to portray, he described in the equally vivid, but less dignified
New England vernacular. "What did I do at Litchfield but to 'boost'? They all lay on me, and
moved very little, except as myself and God moved them. I spent sixteen of the best years of
my life at a dead lift in boosting." And we greatly fear that the reverend seigniors in Synod
and Presbytery, notwithstanding their firm faith in Total Depravity, will be sadly scandalized
at hearing it announced, "That was a scampy concern, that Old School General Assembly, and
is still."

But he would make a great mistake who should infer, that, in thus busily and energetically
building up the temple, Dr. Beecher forgot the glory of the Lord which was to dwell in it.
He treated it, indeed, as a business matter, but it was the business of immortal souls and
of the Most High God. No merely professional attachment bound him to it; there was no contemplating
it from a public and a private point of view; but his whole inner and outer life was enlisted.
Not only the religious public, but, what is even more rare, his own family, were vitalized
with his spirit and drawn into his train. The doctrines that he preached from the pulpit had
been discussed over the woodpile in the cellar. His public teachings had first been household
words. The Epistles, death, a preëxistent state, were talked over by the fireside. Theology
took precedence even of the baby in the family letters. One breath announces that he could
not find any trout at Guilford, and the next that he has preached his sermon on Depravity.
Catharine writes, that the house needs paper and paint very much, father's afternoon sermon
perfectly electrified her, and his last article will make all smoke again. Harriet records,
with great inward exultation, that, on their Western journey, father preached, and gave them
the Taylorite heresy on Sin and Decrees to the highest notch, and what was amusing, he established
it from the "Confession of Faith," and so it went high and dry above all objections, and delighted
his audience, who had never heard it christened heresy. He sets forth to attend the Synod,
accompanied by his son Henry, with one rein in the right hand, and one in the left, and an
apple in each, biting them alternately, and alternately telling Tom how to get the harness
mended, and showing Henry the true doctrine of Original Sin. His fatherly heart yearned over
his children; with voice and pen and a constant watchful tenderness, he knew no rest till the
whole eleven had adopted the faith for which he so earnestly contended. The genius of Napoleon
elicited almost a personal affection, and he read every memoir from St. Helena with the earnest
desire of shaping out of those last conversations some hope for his future. He mourned for
Byron as for a friend, lamenting sorely that wasted life, and was sure, that, if Byron "could
only have talked with Taylor and me, it might have got him out of his troubles." Indeed, he
evidently considered "Taylor and me," not to say me and Taylor, the two pillars of Orthodoxy,--in
no wise from vanity, but in the simplicity of truth. He spoke of his own feats with an openness
that could proceed only from a guileless heart. The work of the Lord was the one thing that
absorbed him, to the oblivion of all lesser interests. He was as absolutely free from vanity
on the one side as from envy on the other. Lyman Beecher as Lyman Beecher had no existence.
Lyman Beecher as God's servant was the verity. He rejoiced in the prosperity of the sacred
cause: if it was Beecher's hand that furthered it, he exulted; if another than Beecher's, it
was all the same. There was no room in his mind for any petty personal jealousy. He stood in
nobody's way. He enjoyed every man's success. So the building rose, it was of small moment
who wielded the hammer. Ever on the watch for indications of the mind and will of God, it was
from zeal, not ambition, that he waited for no precedence, but pushed through the opened door,
opened it never so narrowly. In doubt as to what is the true meaning of some "providence,"
he advises "to take hold of the end of the rope that is put into your hand, and pull it till
we see what is on the other end."

Yet, with all his electric enthusiasm, he was wise in his generation and beyond his generation,
and in some respects beyond our own. He watched for souls as one that must give account. He
adapted means to ends. He was careful not by fierce opposition to push doubt into error. When
a drunkard died, he remembered that "his mother was an habitual drinker, and he was nursed
on milk-punch, and the thirst was in his constitution"; so he hoped "that God saw it was a
constitutional infirmity, like any other disease." He reduced the dogma of Total Depravity
to the simple proposition, "that men by nature do not love God supremely, and their neighbor
as themselves." He stoutly resisted the attempt to overawe belief, either his own or another's.
He refused to expend his strength in contending with the friends of Christ, when there was
so much to be done against his foes. Yet he was as far as possible from that narrow sectarianism,
which sees no evil in its own ranks and no good in those of its adversaries. He denounced the
faults of the Orthodox as heartily as those of the Unitarians. Standing in the forefront of
Calvinism, he did not hesitate to say, "It is my deliberate opinion that the false philosophy
which has been employed for the exposition of the Calvinistic system has done more to obstruct
the march of Christianity, and to paralyze the saving power of the Gospel, and to raise up
and organize around the Church the unnumbered multitude to behold and wonder and despise and
perish, than all other causes beside.... Who of us are to suffer the loss of the most wood
and hay by the process [of purging out this false philosophy] I cannot tell; but all mine is
at the Lord's service at any time; and if all which is in New England should be brought out
and laid in one pile, I think it would make a great bonfire."

Unfortunately, there was something worse in the Church than false philosophy, unless this book
very grievously falsifies facts. Her bitterest foe would hardly dare charge upon Zion such
iniquity as the friendly unbosoming in these pages reveals. Wily intrigue, reckless perversion
of language, rule or ruin, such things as we regret to see even in a political caucus, are
to be found in abundance in the counsels of men who profess to be working only for the glory
of God and the good of souls. Insinuations of craft and cowardice are set on foot, where direct
charges fail for want of evidence. Rumor is made to do the work which reason cannot accomplish.
Private letters are surreptitiously published, the publication defended as done with the permission
of the writer, and testimony to the contrary refused a hearing. Extracts are taken out of their
connection and made to carry a different meaning from that which they originally bore. What
cannot be put down by evidence is to be put down by odium. There is a "cool and deliberate
determination on the part of one half the Presbyterian Church to inflict upon the other half
all the injury possible." Dr. Beecher's son, himself a prominent clergyman, is forced to confess,
that, "for a combination of meanness and guilt and demoralising power in equal degrees of intensity,
I have never known anything to exceed the conspiracy in New England and in the Presbyterian
Church to crush by open falsehood and secret whisperings my father and others, whom they have
in vain tried to silence by argument or to condemn in the courts of the Church." And yet, as
Dr. Beecher stands forth in this biography, in native honor clad, so, undoubtedly, does Brother
Nettleton stand forth in his biography, and Brother Woods in his, and Brother Wilson in his,
and all the brethren in theirs,--all honorable men. We venture to say that not one of these
reverend traducers and mischief-makers was "dealt with" by his church for his evil-doing. We
make no doubt he went through life without loss of prestige or diminution of sanctity, and
was bewailed at his death by the sons of the prophets in tenderest phrase, "My father! my father!
the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof."

We do not attribute these shameful proceedings to Orthodoxy, still less to Christianity. "Perhaps
it is a fact of our fallen nature, as Dr. Beecher asserted, that "Adam and grace will do twice
as much as grace alone." But surely all these things happened unto them for ensamples, and
they are written for our admonition.

    "But bretheren, we will never let
      Our angry passions rise:
    Our little hands were never made
      To tear each other's eyes."

This biography, as the title-page asserts, is edited rather than written. By familiar talk
and private letters, the subject is made, as far as possible, to tell his own story. What remains
is supplied by the pens of different members of the family and of old friends. The result is
a composite, the connections of whose parts we do not always readily discern. But what the
book lacks in coherence is more than made up in accuracy and vividness. We obtain, by glimpses
of the man, a far more exact knowledge of his character and work than we should by ever so
steady a contemplation of some other man's symmetrical rendering of his life. We feel the beating
of his great, fiery heart. We delight in his large, loving nature. We partake in his honest
indignation. We smile, sometimes not without tears, at his childlike simplicity. We sit around
the household hearth, join in the theological disputation, and share the naïve satisfaction
of the whole Beecher family with themselves and each other. We see how it was that the father
set them all a-spinning each in his own groove, but all bearing the unmistakable Beecher stamp.
We feel his irresistible energy, his burning zeal, his magnetic force yet thrilling through
the land and arousing every sluggish power to come to the help of the Lord-against the mighty.
For such a life there is indeed no death.

     Engineer and Artillery Operations against the Defences of
     Charleston Harbor in 1863. Comprising the Descent upon Morris
     Island, the Demolition of Fort Sumter, the Reduction of Forts
     Wagner and Gregg. With Observations on Heavy Ordnance,
     Fortifications, etc. By L. A. GILLMORE, Major of Engineers,
     Major-General of Volunteers, and Commanding General of the Land
     Forces engaged. Published by Authority. New York: D. Van
     Nostrand.

Just after Major-General Hunter was removed--or, as the delicate military phrase went, "temporarily
relieved"--from the command of the Department of the South, there was a report current in those
parts of a conversation, perhaps imaginary, between President Lincoln and the relieved General,
on his arrival at Washington. The gossip ran, that on General Hunter's inquiring the cause
of his removal, the good-natured President could only say that "Horace Greeley said he had
found a man who could do the job." The job was the taking of Charleston, and the "coming man"
was Brigadier-General (now Major-General) Gillmore. The so-called "siege of Charleston," after
being the nine-days'-wonder of two continents, dwindled to a mere daily item in the dingy newspapers
of that defiant city,--an item contemptuously sandwiched between the meteorological record
and the deaths and marriages. The "coming man" came and went, being in his turn "temporarily
relieved," and consigned to that obscurity which is the Nemesis of major-generals. He is more
fortunate, however, than some of his compeers, in experiencing almost at once the double resurrection
of autobiography and reappointment. Whether his new career be more or less successful than
the old one, the autobiography is at least worth printing, so far as it goes. Had an instalment
of it appeared when the siege of Charleston was at its height, it would have been translated
into a dozen European languages, and would have been read more eagerly in London and Paris
than even in Washington. Even now it will be read with interest, and with respect to rifled
ordnance will be a permanent authority.

The total impression left behind by General Gillmore, in his former career in the Department
of the South, was that of an unwearied worker and an admirable engineer officer. Military gifts
are apt to be specific, and a specialist seldom gains reputation in the end by being raised
to those elevated posts which require a combination of faculties. If the object of General
Gillmore's original appointment was to silence Fort Sumter and to throw shell into Charleston,
he was undoubtedly the man who could "do the job." If the aim was to take Charleston with a
small military force, or even a large one, the wisdom of the choice was less clear. If the
intent was to govern an important Department, without reference to further conquests,--to regulate
trade, organize industry, free the slaves, educate the freedmen,--then the selection was still
more doubtful. For this sphere of action, which had seemed so important to Mitchell and to
Hunter, was foreign to Gillmore's whole habits and temperament, and he never could galvanize
himself into caring for it. His strong point, after all, was in dealing with metal rather than
with men, white or black. And as (since the disaster at Olustee) he can hardly be charged with
any squeamish unwillingness to throw upon others the chief responsibility of any seeming failures
of his own, it is perhaps fortunate that in this book he is able to keep chiefly upon the ground
where he is strongest.

Yet, after all, the work is historical as well as scientific. And there is in it such a mingling
of great questions of philanthropy with mere questions of grooving, and black soldiers jostle
so inextricably with black guns, that the common reader and the mere student of human nature
will find an interest in the book, as well as that intelligent lady of our acquaintance, who,
having heard of the brilliant ornithology of the tropics, was eager to read about the hundred-pound
"Parrotts" of South Carolina.

As to the guns, the contributions of this superbly illustrated volume are of the very greatest
value. Nothing in print equals it, except Mr. Holley's recent great treatise, some of whose
tables are here also employed by permission. Here we find the most authentic statements, both
as to the work done by the large rifled guns, and as to that trick of bursting which is their
gravest weakness. But for this, the heavy ordnance of Parrott would be a magnificent success.
And when we consider that six two-hundred pounders and seventeen one-hundred pounders were
burst during the siege of Charleston, as recorded in this volume,--that five one-hundred pounders
are said to have been burst in a single week on Morris Island at a later period, and that Admiral
Porter reports six similar instances during the first attack on Fort Fisher,--it was certainly
worth while in the publisher of this work, with his usual liberality, to devote a long series
of admirable plates, prepared under the direction of Captain Mordecai, to the details of these
dangerous fractures.

It is generally admitted that the smaller "Parrott" guns, including the thirty pounders, approach
very near perfection. The large calibres have precisely the same merits, as respects range,
accuracy, and simplicity of construction and manipulation. This their work against Fort Sumter
shows. But the deficiency of endurance belongs to the large guns alone; since the smaller,
after an immense amount of service, have shown no sort of weakness. Yet, if the principle be
correct, on which the latter are strengthened, there seems no reason why the same degree of
endurance may not yet be secured for the larger. It is simply a mechanical problem, whose solution
cannot be far off.

The guns have burst both longitudinally and laterally, and in quite a variety of position and
service. General Turner's suggestion, that an important secondary cause of bursting is the
presence of sand within the bore, among the ever-blowing sand-hills of the Sea Islands, seems
justified by the fact that in the naval service the accidents have been far less frequent,--a
thing in all respects fortunate, by the way, as such explosions on board ship involve far greater
sacrifice of life than on land. Another secondary cause is the premature explosion of shell
within the bore, a defect which should be also remediable. Indeed, the "Parrott" shell were
at first notoriously defective, often bursting too soon or not at all, and thus losing much
of their usefulness; though this defect has now been, in a great degree, remedied. The discussion
of the whole subject in this book seems reasonable and unprejudiced, and a letter from the
maker of the guns, at the end, gives with equal candor his side of the question.

General Gillmore's narrative of his military operations is exceedingly interesting, and generally
clear and simple. The descent upon Morris Island from Folly Island was undoubtedly one of the
most skilful achievements of the war. Under the superintendence of Brigadier-General Vogdes,
forty-seven pieces of artillery, with two hundred rounds of ammunition for each gun, and provided
with suitable parapets, splinter-proof shelters, and magazines, were placed in position, by
night, within speaking distance of the enemy's pickets, and within view of their observatories.
And yet all this immense piece of work was done with such profound secrecy, that, when the
first shot from these batteries fell among the enemy, it astounded them as if it had come from
the planet Jupiter. At the time, this brilliant success was merged in the greater prospective
brilliancy of the expected results. Now that the results have failed to follow, we can perhaps
do more justice to the remarkable skill displayed in the preliminary movements.

So far as this report is concerned, General Gillmore shows no disposition to do injustice to
other officers. In reprinting the daily correspondence with Admiral Dahlgren it might have
been better to omit or explain some hasty expressions of censure,--as where a young naval lieutenant
is charged (on page 333) with defeating an important measure by acting without orders, though
the fact was, that the officer was not under General Gillmore's orders at all, and simply followed
the instructions of his immediate commander. But in dealing with officers of higher rank he
is more discreet, and his implied criticisms on Admiral Dahlgren are not so severe as might
have been expected. They are not nearly so sharp as those which were constantly heard, during
the siege, from the officers of the navy; and the Admiral's telegraphic note on page 327, "My
chief pilot informs me a gale is coming on, and I am coming into the creek," was the source
of very unpardonable levity on board some of the gun-boats.

In the few passages relating to the colored troops, in the main report, the author shows evident
pains in the statement, with rather unsatisfactory results. The style suggests rather the adroitness
of the politician than the frankness of the soldier. This is the case, for instance, in his
narrative of the unsuccessful assault upon Fort Wagner, where he uses language which would
convey the impression, to nine readers out of ten, that it was somehow a reproach to the Fifty-Fourth
Massachusetts that it was thrown into disorder, and that this disorder checked the progress
of the rest. Of course this was so,--because it led the charge. It is not usual to say, in
preparing a very brief narrative of some railway collision, that the leading car "was thrown
into a state of great disorder, which reacted unfavorably upon, and delayed the progress of,
those which followed." Yet it is hardly less absurd to say it of the leading battalion in a
night attack on a fortress almost impregnable. The leading car takes the brunt of the shock
precisely because it is in that position, and so does the leading regiment. How well the Fifty-Fourth
Massachusetts bore the test is recognized by its being apparently included in the final admission,
that "the behavior of the troops, under the circumstances, was unexceptionable." But a fractional
share in a line and a half of rather chilly praise is hardly an equivalent for three lines
of implied individual censure. Had Brigadier-General Strong lived to tell the story of that
night, it would have been stated less diplomatically than by Major-General Gillmore.

The report of Major Brooks on the working qualities of the colored troops is far more discriminating
and more valuable, as are the appended statements of Captain Walker and Lieutenant Farrand.
Major Brooks, as chief of engineering, sent circulars to six different officers who had superintended
fatigue parties in the trenches, covering inquiries on five points relating to efficiency and
courage. The report may be found at page 259 of the book, constituting Appendix XIX. (misprinted
XIV.) to the Journal of Major Brooks.

The statement is probably as fair as the facts in the compiler's possession could make it;
yet it is seriously vitiated by the scantiness of those facts. But only two regiments of the
latter class appear to have come under Major Brooks's observation at all. One of these was
a perfectly raw regiment, which had never had a day's drill when it was placed in the trenches,
but which was kept constantly at work there, although an order had been issued forbidding white
recruits from being so employed. The other was a regiment composed chiefly of South Carolina
conscripts, enlisted in utter disregard of pledges previously given, and of course unwilling
soldiers. It was absurd to institute a comparison between these troops and a regiment so well
trained and officered as the Fifty-Fourth Massachusetts. Longer experience has shown that there
is no great choice between the Northern and Southern negro, as military material; and the preferences
of an officer will usually depend upon which he has been accustomed to command. Many, certainly,
are firm in the conviction that the freed slave makes the best soldier.

In other points the report carries with it some of the needful corrections, at least for a
careful reader. But when we read on the previous page that the white soldiers were allowed
to take their arms into the trenches, and that the black soldiers were not, it makes the whole
comparison nearly worthless. It is notorious that the presence or absence of manhood in the
bravest soldier often seems to be determined by the mere fact that he has a gun in his hand;
and had the object been to annihilate all vestige of military pride in the colored troops,
it could not have been better planned than by this and other distinctions maintained during
a large part of the siege of Charleston. That, while smarting under the double deprivation
both of a soldier's duty and of a soldier's pay, they should have so behaved as to merit a
report so favorable as that of Major Brooks, is one of the greatest triumphs they have yet
achieved. This volume contains the record of what they did. The story of what they underwent
is yet to be told; for even of his two famous "orders" General Gillmore judiciously makes no
mention here.

Thus mingled, in this superb work, are the points of strength and weakness. It remains only
to add that the typographical and artistic execution is an honor to our literature, and adds
to the laurels previously won in the same department by the publisher. Where all else is so
admirable, it seems a pity to have to lament the absence of an index. The division of the work
among several different authors makes this defect peculiarly inconvenient.

     General Todleben's History of the Defence of Sebastopol,
     1854-5. A Review. By WILLIAM HOWARD RUSSELL. New York: D. Van
     Nostrand.

It does not yet appear whether our great civil war will leave behind it materials for debate
as acrimonious as that which has gathered round the affair in the Crimea. If General Butler
and Admiral Porter live and thrive, there seems a fair chance that it may. In that case it
will be interesting to read how General Todleben, in a parallel case, substitutes the Russian
bear for the monkey in the fable, pats each combatant on the shoulder, and presents each with
a shell, while extracting for himself the oyster.

