The preparations were simple and quickly made. Each man armed himself with a stick three feet
long and about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Rough weapons they were, cut from boughs
of scrub-oak, knotty and tough as horn. Long-Hair unbound Beverley and stripped his clothes
from his body down to the waist. Then the lines formed, the Indians in each row standing about
as far apart as the width of the space in which the prisoner was to run. This arrangement gave
them free use of their sticks and plenty of room for full swing of their lithe bodies.

In removing Beverley's clothes Long-Hair found Alice's locket hanging over the young man's
heart. He tore it rudely off and grunted, glaring viciously, first at it, then at Beverley.
He seemed to be mightily wrought upon.

"White man damn thief," he growled deep in his throat; "stole from little girl!"

He put the locket in his pouch and resumed his stupidly indifferent expression.

When everything was ready for the delightful entertainment to begin, Long-Hair waved his tomahawk
three times over Beverley's head, and pointing down between the waiting lines said:

"Ugh, run!"

But Beverley did not budge. He was standing erect, with his arms, deeply creased where the
thongs had sunk, folded across his breast. A rush of thoughts and feelings had taken tumultuous
possession of him and he could not move or decide what to do. A mad desire to escape arose
in his heart the moment that he saw Long-Hair take the locket. It was as if Alice had cried
to him and bidden him make a dash for liberty.

"Ugh, run!"

The order was accompanied with a push of such violence from Long-Hair's left elbow that Beverley
plunged and fell, for his limbs, after their long and painful confinement in the raw-hide bonds,
were stiff and almost useless. Long-Hair in no gentle voice bade him get up. The shock of falling
seemed to awaken his dormant forces; a sudden resolve leaped into his brain. He saw that the
Indians had put aside their bows and guns, most of which were leaning against the boles of
trees here and yonder. What if he could knock Long-Hair down and run away? This might possibly
be easy, considering the Indian's broken arm. His heart jumped at the possibility. But the
shrewd savage was alert and saw the thought come into his face.

"You try git 'way, kill dead!" he snarled, lifting his tomahawk ready for a stroke. "Brains
out, damn!"

Beverley glanced down the waiting and eager lines. Swiftly he speculated, wondering what would
be his chance for escape were he to break through. But he did not take his own condition into
account.

"Ugh, run!"

Again the elbow of Long-Hair's hurt arm pushed him toward the expectant rows of Indians, who
flourished their clubs and uttered impatient grunts.

This time he did not fall; but in trying to run he limped stiffly at first, his legs but slowly
and imperfectly regaining their strength and suppleness from the action. Just before reaching
the lines, however, he stopped short. Long-Hair, who was close behind him, took hold of his
shoulder and led him back to the starting place. The big Indian's arm must have given him pain
when he thus used it, but he did not wince. "Fool--kill dead!" he repeated two or three times,
holding his tomahawk on high with threatening motions and frequent repetitions of his one echo
from the profanity of civilization. He was beginning to draw his mouth down at the corners,
and his eyes were narrowed to mere slits.

Beverley understood now that he could not longer put off the trial. He must choose between
certain death and the torture of the gauntlet, as frontiersmen named this savage ordeal. An
old man might have preferred the stroke of the hatchet to such an infliction as the clubs must
afford, considering that, even after all the agony, his captivity and suffering would be only
a little nearer its end. Youth, however, has faith in the turn of fortune's wheel, and faith
in itself, no matter how dark the prospect. Hope blows her horn just over the horizon, and
the strain bids the young heart take courage and beat strong. Moreover, men were men, who led
the van in those days on the outmost lines of our march to the summit of the world. Beverley
was not more a hero than any other young, brave, unconquerable patriot of the frontier army.
His situation simply tried him a trifle harder than was common. But it must be remembered that
he had Love with him, and where Love is there can be no cowardice, no surrender.

Long-Hair once again pushed him and said

"Ugh, run!"

Beverley made a direct dash for the narrow lane between the braced and watchful lines. Every
warrior lifted his club; every copper face gleamed stolidly, a mask behind which burned a strangely
atrocious spirit. The two savages standing at the end nearest Beverley struck at him the instant
he reached than, but they taken quite by surprise when he checked himself between them and,
leaping this way and that, swung out two powerful blows, left and right, stretching one of
them flat and sending the other reeling and staggering half a dozen paces backward with the
blood streaming from his nose.

This done, Beverley turned to run away, but his breath was already short and his strength rapidly
going.

Long-Hair, who was at his heels, leaped before him when he had gone but a few steps and once
more flourished the tomahawk. To struggle was useless, save to insist upon being brained outright,
which just then had no part in Beverley's considerations. Long-Hair kicked his victim heavily,
uttering laconic curses meanwhile, and led him back again to the starting-point.

A genuine sense of humor seems almost entirely lacking in the mind of the American Indian.
He smiles at things not in the least amusing to us and when he laughs, which is very seldom,
the cause of his merriment usually lies in something repellantly cruel and inhuman. When Beverley
struck his two assailants, hurting them so that one lay half stunned, while the other spun
away from his fist with a smashed nose, all the rest of the Indians grunted and laughed raucously
in high delight. They shook their clubs, danced, pointed at their discomfited fellows and twisted
their painted faces into knotted wrinkles, their eyes twinkling with devilish expression of
glee quite indescribable.

"Ugh, damn, run!" said Long-Half, this time adding a hard kick to the elbow-shove he gave Beverley.

The young man, who had borne all he could, now turned upon him furiously and struck straight
from the shoulder, setting the whole weight of his body into the blow. Long-Hair stepped out
of the way and quick as a flash brought the flat side of his tomahawk with great force against
Beverley's head. This gave the amusement a sudden and disappointing end, for the prisoner fell
limp and senseless to the ground. No more running the gauntlet for him that day. Indeed it
required protracted application of the best Indian skill to revive him so that he could fairly
be called a living man. There had been no dangerous concussion, however, and on the following
morning camp was broken.

Beverley, sore, haggard, forlornly disheveled, had his arms bound again and was made to march
apace with his nimble enemies, who set out swiftly eastward, their disappointment at having
their sport cut short, although bitter enough, not in the least indicated by any facial expression
or spiteful act.

Was it really a strange thing, or was it not, that Beverley's mind now busied itself unceasingly
with the thought that Long-Hair had Alice's picture in his pouch? One might find room for discussion
of a cerebral problem like this; but our history cannot be delayed with analyses and speculations;
it must run its direct course unhindered to the end. Suffice it to record that, while tramping
at Long-Hair's side and growing more and more desirous of seeing the picture again, Beverley
began trying to converse with his taciturn captor. He had a considerable smattering of several
Indian dialects, which he turned upon Long-Hair to the best of his ability, but apparently
without effect. Nevertheless he babbled at intervals, always upon the same subject and always
endeavoring to influence that huge, stolid, heartless savage in the direction of letting him
see again the child face of the miniature.

A stone, one of our travel-scarred and mysterious western granite bowlders brought from the
far north by the ancient ice, would show as much sympathy as did the face of Long-Hair. Once
in a while he gave Beverley a soulless glance and said "damn" with utter indifference. Nothing,
however, could quench or even in the slightest sense allay the lover's desire. He talked of
Alice and the locket with constantly increasing volubility, saying over and over phrases of
endearment in a half-delirious way, not aware that fever was fermenting his blood and heating
his brain. Probably he would have been very ill but for the tremendous physical exercise forced
upon him. The exertion kept him in a profuse perspiration and his robust constitution cast
off the malarial poison. Meantime he used every word and phrase, every grunt and gesture of
Indian dialect that he could recall, in the iterated and reiterated attempt to make Long-Hair
understand what he wanted.

When night came on again the band camped under some trees beside a swollen stream. There was
no rain falling, but almost the entire country lay under a flood of water. Fires of logs were
soon burning brightly on the comparatively dry bluff chosen by the Indians. The weather was
chill, but not cold. Long-Hair took great pains, however, to dry Beverley's clothes and see
that he had warm wraps and plenty to eat. Hamilton's large reward would not be forthcoming
should the prisoner die, Beverley was good property, well worth careful attention. To be sure
his scalp, in the worst event, would command a sufficient honorarium, but not the greatest.
Beverley thought of all this while the big Indian was wrapping him snugly in skins and blankets
for the night, and there was no comfort in it, save that possibly if he were returned to Hamilton
he might see Alice again before he died.

A fitful wind cried dolefully in the leafless treetops, the stream hard by gave forth a rushing
sound, and far away some wolves howled like lost souls. Worn out, sore from head to foot, Beverley,
deep buried in the blankets and skins, soon fell into a profound sleep. The fires slowly crumbled
and faded; no sentinel was posted, for the Indians did not fear an attack, there being no enemies
that they knew of nearer than Kaskaskia. The camp slumbered as one man.

At about the mid-hour of the night Long-Hair gently awoke his prisoner by drawing a hand across
his face, then whispered in his ear:

"Damn, still!"

Beverley tried to rise, uttering a sleepy ejaculation under his breath. "No talk," hissed Long-Hair.
"Still!"

There was something in his voice that not only swept the last film of sleep out of Beverley's
brain, but made it perfectly clear to him that a very important bit of craftiness was being
performed; just what its nature was, however, he could not surmise. One thing was obvious,
Long-Hair did not wish the other Indians to know of the move he was making. Deftly he slipped
the blankets from around Beverley, and cut the thongs at his ankles.

"Still!" he whispered. "Come 'long."

Under such circumstances a competent mind acts with lightning celerity. Beverley now understood
that Long-Hair was stealing him away from the other savages and that the big villain meant
to cheat them out of their part of the reward. Along with this discovery came a fresh gleam
of hope. It would be far easier to escape from one Indian than from nearly a score. Ah, he
would follow Long-Hair, indeed he would! The needed courage came with the thought, and so with
immense labor he crept at the heels of that crawling monster. It was a painful process, for
his arms were still fast bound at the wrists with the raw-hide strings; but what was pain to
him? He shivered with joy, thinking of what might happen. The voice of the wind overhead and
the noisy bubbling of the stream near by were cheerful and cheering sounds to him now. So much
can a mere shadow of hope do for a human soul on the verge of despair! Already he was planning
or trying to plan some way by which he could kill Long-Hair when they should reach a safe distance
from the sleeping camp.

But how could the thing be done? A man with his hands tied, though they are in front of him,
is in no excellent condition to cope with a free and stalwart savage armed to the teeth. Still
Beverley's spirits rose with every rod of distance that was added to their slow progress.

Their course was nearly parallel with that of the stream, but slightly converging toward it,
and after they had gone about a furlong they reached the bank. Here Long-Hair stopped and,
without a word, cut the thongs from Beverley's wrists. This was astounding; the young man could
scarcely realize it, nor was he ready to act.

"Swim water," Long-Hair said in a guttural murmur barely audible. "Swim, damn!"

Again it was necessary for Beverley's mind to act swiftly and with prudence. The camp was yet
within hailing distance. A false move now would bring the whole pack howling to the rescue.
Something told him to do as Long-Hair ordered, so with scarcely a perceptible hesitation he
scrambled down the bushy bank and slipped into the water, followed by Long-Hair, who seized
him by one arm when he began to swim, and struck out with him into the boiling and tumbling
current.

Beverley had always thought himself a master swimmer, but Long-Hair showed him his mistake.
The giant Indian, with but one hand free to use, fairly rushed through that deadly cold and
turbulent water, bearing his prisoner with him despite the wounded arm, as easily as if towing
him at the stern of a pirogue. True, his course was down stream for a considerable distance,
but even when presently he struck out boldly for the other bank, breasting a current in which
few swimmers could have lived, much less made headway, he still swung forward rapidly, splitting
the waves and scarcely giving Beverley freedom enough so that he could help in the progress.
It was a long, cold struggle, and when at last they touched the sloping low bank on the other
side, Long-Hair had fairly to lift his chilled and exhausted prisoner to the top.

"Ugh, cold," he grunted, beginning to pound and rub Beverley's arms, legs and body. "Make warm,
damn heap!"

All this he did with his right hand, holding the tomahawk in his left.

It was a strange, bewildering experience out of which the young man could not see in any direction
far enough to give him a hint upon which to act. In a few minutes Long-Hair jerked him to his
feet and said:

"Go."

It was just light enough to see that the order had a tomahawk to enforce it withal. Long-Hair
indicated the direction and drove Beverley onward as fast as he could.

"Try run 'way, kill, damn!" he kept repeating, while with his left hand on the young man's
shoulder he guided him from behind dexterously through the wood for some distance. Then he
stopped and grunted, adding his favorite expletive, which he used with not the least knowledge
of its meaning. To him the syllable "damn" was but a mouthful of forcible wind.

They had just emerged from a thicket into an open space, where the ground was comparatively
dry. Overhead the stars were shining in great clusters of silver and gold against a dark, cavernous
looking sky, here and there overrun with careering black clouds. Beverley shivered, not so
much with cold as on account of the stress of excitement which amounted to nervous rigor. Long-Hair
faced him and leaned toward him, until his breathing was audible and his massive features were
dimly outlined. A dragon of the darkest age could not have been more repulsive.

"Ugh, friend, damn!"

Beverley started when these words were followed by a sentence in an Indian dialect somewhat
familiar to him, a dialect in which he had tried to talk with Long-Hair during the day's march.
The sentence, literally translated, was:

"Long-Hair is friendly now."

A blow in the face could not have been so surprising. Beverley not only started, but recoiled
as if from a sudden and deadly apparition. The step between supreme exhilaration and utter
collapse is now and then infinitesimal. There are times, moreover, when an expression on the
face of Hope makes her look like the twin sister of Despair. The moment falling just after
Long-Hair spoke was a century condensed in a breath.

"Long-Hair is friendly now; will white man be friendly?"

Beverley heard, but the speech seemed to come out of vastness and hollow distance; he could
not realize it fairly. He felt as if in a dream, far off somewhere in loneliness, with a big,
shadowy form looming before him. He heard the chill wind in the thickets round about, and beyond
Long-Hair rose a wall of giant trees.

"Ugh, not understand?" the savage presently demanded in his broken English.

"Yes, yes," said Beverley, "I understand."

"Is the white man friendly now?" Long-Hair then repeated in his own tongue, with a certain
insistence of manner and voice.

"Yes, friendly."

Beverley said this absently in a tone of perfunctory dryness. His throat was parched, his head
seemed to waver. But he was beginning to comprehend that Long-Hair, for some inscrutable reason
of his own, was desirous of making a friendship between them. The thought was bewildering.

Long-Hair fumbled in his pouch and took out Alice's locket, which he handed to Beverley. "White
man love little girl?" he inquired in a tone that bordered upon tenderness, again speaking
in Indian.

Beverley clutched the disk as soon as he saw it gleam in the star-light.

"White man going to have little girl for his squaw--eh?"

"Yes, yes," cried Beverley without hearing his own voice. He was trying to open the locket
but his hands were numb and trembling. When at last he did open it he could not see the child
face within, for now even the star-light was shut off by a scudding black cloud.

"Little girl saved Long-Hair's life. Long-Hair save white warrior for little girl."

A dignity which was almost noble accompanied these simple sentences. Long-Hair stood proudly
erect, like a colossal dark statue in the dimness.

The great truth dawned upon Beverley that here was a characteristic act. He knew that an Indian
rarely failed to repay a kindness or an injury, stroke for stroke, when opportunity offered.
Long-Hair was a typical Indian. That is to say, a type of inhumanity raised to the last power;
but under his hideous atrocity of nature lay the indestructible sense of gratitude so fixed
and perfect that it did its work almost automatically.

It must be said, and it may or may not be to the white man's shame, that Beverley did not respond
with absolute promptness and sincerity to Long-Hair's generosity. He had suffered terribly
at the hands of this savage. His arms and legs were raw from the biting of the thongs; his
body ached from the effect of blows and kicks laid upon him while bound and helpless. Perhaps
he was not a very emotional man. At all events there was no sudden recognition of the favor
he was receiving. And this pleased Long-Hair, for the taste of the American Indian delights
in immobility of countenance and reserve of feeling under great strain.

"Wait here a little while," Long-Hair presently said, and without lingering for reply, turned
away and disappeared in the wood. Beverley was free to run if he wished to, and the thought
did surge across his mind; but a restraining something, like a hand laid upon him, would not
let his limbs move. Down deep in his heart a calm voice seemed to be repeating Long-Hair's
Indian sentence--"Wait here a little while."

A few minutes later Long-Hair returned bearing two guns, Beverley's and his own, the latter,
a superb weapon given him by Hamilton. He afterward explained that he had brought these, with
their bullet-pouches and powder-horns, to a place of concealment near by before he awoke Beverley.
This meant that he had swum the cold river three times since night-fall; once over with the
guns and accouterments; once back to camp, then over again with Beverley! All this with a broken
arm, and to repay Alice for her kindness to him.

Beverley may have been slow, but at last his appreciation was, perhaps, all the more profound.
As best he could he expressed it to Long-Hair, who showed no interest whatever in the statement.
Instead of responding in Indian, he said "damn" without emphasis. It was rather as if he had
yawned absently, being bored.

Delay could not be thought of. Long-Hair explained briefly that he thought. Beverley must go
to Kaskaskia. He had come across the stream in the direction of Vincennes in order to set his
warriors at fault. The stream must be recrossed, he said, farther down, and he would help Beverley
a certain distance on his way, then leave him to shift for himself. He had a meager amount
of parched corn and buffalo meat in his pouch, which would stay hunger until they could kill
some game. Now they must go.

The resilience of a youthful and powerful physique offers many a problem to the biologist.
Vital force seems to find some mysterious reservoir of nourishment hidden away in the nerve-centers.
Beverley set out upon that seemingly impossible undertaking with renewed energy. It could not
have been the ounce of parched corn and bit of jerked venison from which he drew so much strength;
but on the other hand, could it have been the miniature of Alice, which he felt pressing over
his heart once more, that afforded a subtle stimulus to both mind and body? They flung miles
behind them before day-dawn, Long-Hair leading, Beverley pressing close at his heels. Most
of the way led over flat prairies covered with water, and they therefore left no track by which
they could be followed.

Late in the forenoon Long-Hair killed a deer at the edge of a wood. Here they made a fire and
cooked a supply which would last them for a day or two, and then on they went again. But we
cannot follow them step by step. When Long-Hair at last took leave of Beverley, the occasion
had no ceremony. It was an abrupt, unemotional parting. The stalwart Indian simply said in
his own dialect, pointing westward:

"Go that way two days. You will find your friends."

Then, without another look or word, he turned about and stalked eastward at a marvelously rapid
gait. In his mind he had a good tale to tell his warrior companions when he should find them
again: how Beverley escaped that night and how he followed him a long, long chase, only to
lose him at last under the very guns of the fort at Kaskaskia. But before he reached his band
an incident of some importance changed his story to a considerable degree. It chanced that
he came upon Lieutenant Barlow, who, in pursuit of game, had lost his bearings and, far from
his companions, was beating around quite bewildered in a watery solitude. Long-Hair promptly
murdered the poor fellow and scalped him with as little compunction as he would have skinned
a rabbit; for he had a clever scheme in his head, a very audacious and outrageous scheme, by
which he purposed to recoup, to some extent, the damages sustained by letting Beverley go.

Therefore, when he rejoined his somewhat disheartened and demoralized band he showed them the
scalp and gave them an eloquent account of how he tore it from Beverley's head after a long
chase and a bloody hand to hand fight. They listened, believed, and were satisfied.

CHAPTER XVI

FATHER BERET'S OLD BATTLE

The room in which Alice was now imprisoned formed part of the upper story of a building erected
by Hamilton in one of the four angles of the stockade. It had no windows and but two oblong
port-holes made to accommodate a small swivel, which stood darkly scowling near the middle
of the floor. From one of these apertures Alice could see the straggling roofs and fences of
the dreary little town, while from the other a long reach of watery prairie, almost a lake,
lay under view with the rolling, muddy Wabash gleaming beyond. There seemed to be no activity
of garrison or townspeople. Few sounds broke the silence of which the cheerless prison room
seemed to be the center.

Alice felt all her courage and cheerfulness leaving her. She was alone in the midst of enemies.
No father or mother, no friend--a young girl at the mercy of soldiers, who could not be expected
to regard her with any sympathy beyond that which is accompanied with repulsive leers and hints.
Day after day her loneliness and helplessness became more agonizing. Farnsworth, it is true,
did all he could to relieve the strain of her situation; but Hamilton had an eye upon what
passed and soon interfered. He administered a bitter reprimand, under which his subordinate
writhed in speechless anger and resentment.

"Finally, Captain Farnsworth," he said in conclusion, "you will distinctly understand that
this girl is my prisoner, not yours; that I, not you, will direct how she is to be held and
treated, and that hereafter I will suffer no interference on your part. I hope you fully understand
me, sir, and will govern yourself accordingly."

Smarting, or rather smothering, under the outrageous insult of these remarks, Farnsworth at
first determined to fling his resignation at the Governor's feet and then do whatever desperate
thing seemed most to his mood. But a soldier's training is apt to call a halt before the worst
befalls in such a case. Moreover, in the present temptation, Farnsworth had a special check
and hindrance. He had had a conference with Father Beret, in which the good priest had played
the part of wisdom in slippers, and of gentleness more dove-like than the dove's. A very subtle
impression, illuminated with the "hope that withers hope," had come of that interview; and
now Farnsworth felt its restraint. He therefore saluted Hamilton formally and walked away.

Father Beret's paternal love for Alice,--we cannot characterize it more nicely than to call
it paternal,--was his justification for a certain mild sort of corruption insinuated by him
into the heart of Farnsworth. He was a crafty priest, but his craft was always used for a good
end. Unquestionably Jesuitic was his mode of circumventing the young man's military scruples
by offering him a puff of fair weather with which to sail toward what appeared to be the shore
of delight. He saw at a glance that Farnsworth's love for Alice was a consuming passion in
a very ardent yet decidedly weak heart. Here was the worldly lever with which Father Beret
hoped to raze Alice's prison and free her from the terrible doom with which she was threatened.

The first interview was at Father Beret's cabin, to which, as will be remembered, the priest
and Farnsworth went after their meeting in the street. It actually came to nothing, save an
indirect understanding but half suggested by Father Beret and never openly sanctioned by Captain
Farnsworth. The talk was insinuating on the part of the former, while the latter slipped evasively
from every proposition, as if not able to consider it on account of a curious obtuseness of
perception. Still, when they separated they shook hands and exchanged a searching look perfectly
satisfactory to both.

The memory of that interview with the priest was in Farnsworth's mind when, boiling with rage,
he left Hamilton's presence and went forth into the chill February air. He passed out through
the postern and along the sodden and queachy aedge of the prairie, involuntarily making his
way to Father Beret's cabin. His indignation was so great that he trembled from head to foot
at every step. The door of the place was open and Father Beret was eating a frugal meal of
scones and sour wine (of his own make, he said), which he hospitably begged to share with his
visitor. A fire smouldered on the hearth, and a flat stone showed, by the grease smoking over
its hot surface, where the cakes had been baked.

"Come in, my son," said the priest, "and try the fare of a poor old man. It is plain, very
plain, but good." He smacked his lips sincerely and fingered another scone. "Take some, take some."

Farnsworth was not tempted. The acid bouquet of the wine filled the room with a smack of vinegar,
and the smoke from rank scorching fat and wheat meal did not suggest an agreeable feast.

"Well, well, if you are not hungry, my son, sit down on the stool there and tell me the news."

Farnsworth took the low seat without a word, letting his eyes wander over the walls. Alice's
rapier, the mate to that now worn by Hamilton, hung in its curiously engraved scabbard near
one corner. The sight of it inflamed Farnsworth.

"It's an outrage," he broke forth. "Governor Hamilton sent a man to Roussillon place with orders
to bring him the scabbard of Miss Roussillon's sword, and he now wears the beautiful weapon
as if he had come by it honestly. Damn him!"

"My dear, dear son, you must not soil your lips with such language!" Father Beret let fall
the half of a well bitten cake and held up both hands.

"I beg your pardon, Father; I know I ought to be more careful in your presence; but--but--the
beastly, hellish scoundrel--"

"Bah! doucement, mon fils, doucement." The old man shook his head and his finger while speaking.
"Easy, my son, easy. You would be a fine target for bullets were your words to reach Hamilton's
ears. You are not permitted to revile your commander."

"Yes, I know; but how can a man restrain himself under such abominable conditions?"

Father Beret shrewdly guessed that Hamilton had been giving the Captain fresh reason for bitter
resentment. Moreover, he was sure that the moving cause had been Alice. So, in order to draw
out what he wished to hear, he said very gently:

"How is the little prisoner getting along?"

Farnsworth ground his teeth and swore; but Father Beret appeared not to hear; he bit deep into
a scone, took a liberal sip of the muddy red wine and added:

"Has she a comfortable place? Do you think Governor Hamilton would let me visit her?"

"It is horrible!" Farnsworth blurted. "She's penned up as if she were a dangerous beast, the
poor girl. And that damned scoundrel--"

"Son, son!"

"Oh, it's no use to try, I can't help it, Father. The whelp--"

"We can converse more safely and intelligently if we avoid profanity, and undue emotion, my
son. Now, if you will quit swearing, I will, and if you will be calm, so will I."

Farnsworth felt the sly irony of this absurdly vicarious proposition. Father Beret smiled with
a kindly twinkle in his deep-set eyes.

"Well, if you don't use profane language, Father, there's no telling how much you think in
expletives. What is your opinion of a man who tumbles a poor, defenseless girl into prison
and then refuses to let her be decently cared for? How do you express yourself about him?"

