Their domestic habits were fit consequences of such a state of  society. There could exist
no real tie of kindred, no filial or  brotherly affection among men living under such a social
system.  The gratification of brutal passions and the most utter  selfishness constituted the
rule for all; and even the fear of  an inexorable judge after death could not restrain them
during  life, as might have been the case among other pagan nations,  since the hope of reaching
their Walhalla depended for its  fulfilment on murder or suicide.

With their system of warfare we are better acquainted than with  any thing else belonging to
them, as the main burden of their  songs was the recital of their barbarous expeditions. It
is,  indeed, difficult for a modern reader to wade through the whole  of their Edda poems,
or even their long sagas, so full is their  literature of unimaginable cruelties. Yet a general
view of it  is necessary in order to understand the horror spread throughout  Europe by their
inhuman warfare.

As soon as the warm breeze of an early spring thaws the ice on  his rivers and lakes, the Scandinavian
Viking unfurls his sail,  fills his rude boat with provisions, and trusts himself to the  mercy
of the waves. Should he be alone, and not powerful enough  to have a fleet at his command,
he looks out for a single boat  of his own nation--there being no other in those seas. Urged
by  a mutual impulse, the two crews attack each other at sight; the  sea reddens with blood;
the savage bravery is equal on both  sides; accident alone can decide the contest. One of the
crews  conquers by the death of all its opponents; the plunder is  transferred to the victorious
boat; the cup of strong drink  passes round, and victory is crowned by drunkenness.

But if the two chieftains have contended from morning till night  with equal valor and success,
then, filled with admiration for  each other, they become friends, unite their forces, and,
falling on the first spot where they can land, they pillage,  slay, outrage women, and give
full sway to their unbridled  passions. The more ferocious they are the braver they esteem
themselves. It is a positive fact, as we may gather from all  their poems and songs, that the
Scandinavians alone, probably,  of all pagan nations, have had no measure of bravery and  military
glory beyond the infliction of the most exquisite  torture and the most horrible of deaths.

Plunder, which was apparently the motive power of all their  expeditions, was to them less
attractive than blood; blood,  therefore, is the chief burden of their poetry, if poetry it
can  be called. It would seem as though they were destined by Nature  to shed human blood in
torrents--the noblest occupation,  according to their ideas, in which a brave man could be engaged.

The figures of their rude literature consist for the most part  of monstrous warriors and gods,
each possessed of many arms to  kill a greater number of enemies, or of giant stature to  overcome
all obstacles, or of enchanted swords which shore steel  as easily as linen, and clave the
body of an adversary as it  would the air.

Then, heated with blood, the Northman is also influenced with  lust, for he worships Frigga
as well as Odin. But this is not  the place to give even an idea of manners too revolting to
be  presented to the imagination of the reader.

Cantu's Universal History will furnish all the authorities from  which the details we have
given and many others of the same kind  are derived.

We do not propose describing here the horrors of the  devastations committed by the Anglo-Saxons
and Danes in England,  by the Normans in France, Spain, and Italy. All these nations,  even
the first, were Scandinavians, and naturally fall under our  review. The story is already known
to those who are acquainted  with the history of mediaeval Europe. The only thing which we
do  not wish to omit is the invariable system of warfare adopted by  this people when acting
on a large scale.

Arrived on the coast they had determined to ravage, they soon  found that in stormy weather
they were in a more dangerous  position than at sea. Hence they looked for a deep bay, or,
better still, the mouth of a large river, and once on its placid  bosom they felt themselves
masters of the whole country. The  terror of the people, the lack of organization for defence,
so  characteristic of Celtic or purely Germano-Franco society, the  savage bravery and reckless
impetuosity of the invaders  themselves, increased their rashness, and urged them to enter
fearlessly into the very heart of a country which lay prostrate  with fear before them. All
the cities on the river-banks were  plundered as they passed, people of whatever age, sex,
or  condition, were murdered; the churches especially were despoiled  of their riches, and
the numerous and wealthy monasteries then  existing were given to the flames, after the monks
and all the  inmates even to the schoolchildren, had been promiscuously  slaughtered, if they
had not escaped by flight.

But, although all were slaughtered promiscuously, a special  ferocity was always displayed
by the barbarous conqueror toward  the unarmed and defenceless ministers of religion. They
took a  particular delight in their case in adding insult to cruelty;  and not without reason
did the Church at that time consider as  martyrs the priests and monks who were slain by the
pagan  Scandinavians. Their sanguinary and hideous idolatry showed its  hatred of truth and
holiness in always manifesting a peculiar  atrocity when coming in contact with the Church
of Christ and  her ministers. And, our chief object in speaking of the stand  made by the Irish
against the pagan Danes is, to show how the  clan-system became in truth the avenger of God's
altars and the  preserver of the sacred edifices and numerous temples with which, as we have
seen, the Island of Saints was so profusely studded,  from total annihilation.

Knowing that, when their march of destruction had taken them a  great distance from the mouth
of the river, the inhabitants  might rise in sheer despair and cut them off on their return,
the Scandinavian pirates, to guard against such a contingency,  looked for some island or projecting
rock, difficult of access,  which they fortified, and, placing there the plunder which  loaded
their boats, they left a portion of their forces to guard  it, while the remainder continued
their route of depredation. In  Ireland they found spots admirably adapted for their purpose
in  the numerous loughs into which many of the rivers run.

This was their invariable system of warfare in the rivers of  England; in Germany along system
Rhine; along the Seine, the  Loire, and the Garonne, in France, as well as on the Tagus and
Guadalquivir in Spain, where two at least of their large  expeditions penetrated. This continued
for several centuries,  until at last they thought of occupying the country which they  had
devastated and depopulated, and they began to form permanent  settlements in England, Flanders,
France, and even Sicily and  Naples.

When that time had arrived, they showed that, hidden under their  ferocious exterior, lay a
deep and systematic mind, capable of  great thoughts and profound designs. Already in their
own rude  country they had organized commerce on an extensive scale, and  their harbors teemed
with richly-laden ships, coming from far  distances or preparing to start on long voyages.
They had become  a great colonizing race, and, after establishing their sway in  the Hebrides,
the Orkneys, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, and  Greenland, they made England their own, first
by the Jute and  Anglo-Saxon tribes, then by the arms of Denmark, which was at  that time so
powerful that England actually became a colony of  Copenhagen; and finally they thought of
extending their  conquests farther south to the Mediterranean Sea, where their  ships rode
at anchor in the harbors of fair Sicily.

We know, from many chronicles written at the time, with what 
care they surveyed all the countries they occupied, confiscating 
the land after having destroyed or reduced its inhabitants to 
slavery; dividing it among themselves and establishing their 
barbarous laws and feudal customs wherever they went. Dudo of St.
 Quentin, among other writers, describes at length in his rude 
poem the army of surveyors intrusted by Rollo, the first Duke of 
Normandy, with the care of drawing up a map of their conquests 
in France, for the purpose of dividing the whole among his rough 
followers and vassals.

Of this spirit of organization we intend to speak in the next  chapter, when we come to consider
the Anglo-Norman invasion of  Ireland; but we are not to conclude that the Northmen became
straightway civilized, and that the spirit of refinement at once  shed its mild manners and
gentle habits over their newly- constructed towns and castles. For a long time they remained
as  barbarous as ever, with only a system more perfect and a method  more scientific--if we
may apply such expressions to the case--  in their plunderings and murderous expeditions.

Of Hastings, their last pagan sea-kong, Dudo, the great admirer  of Northmen and the sycophant
of the first Norman dukes in  France, has left the following terrible character, on reading
which in full we scarcely know whether the poem was written in  reproach or praise. We translate
from the Latin

According to Dudo, he was--

"A wretch accursed and fierce of heart, Unmatched in dark iniquities; A scowling pest of deadly
hate, He throve on savage cruelties.

Blood-thirsty, stained with every crime, An artful, cunning, deadly foe, Lawless, vaunting,
rash, inconstant, True well-spring of unending woe!"

Hastings never yielded to the new religion, which he always  hated and persecuted. But, even
after their conversion to  Christianity, his countrymen for a long time retained their  inborn
love of bloodshed and tyranny; they were in this respect,  as in many others, the very reverse
of the Irish.

Of Rollo, the first Christian Duke of Normandy, Adhemar, a  contemporary writer, says:

"On becoming Christian, he caused many captives to be beheaded  in his presence, in honor of
the gods whom he had worshipped.  And he also distributed a vast amount of money to the Christian
churches in honor of the true God in whose name he had received  baptism;" which would seem
to imply that this transaction  occurred on the very day of his baptism.

We may now compare the success which attended the arms of these  terrible invaders throughout
the rest of Europe with their  complete failure in Ireland. It will be seen that the deep 
attachment of the Irish Celts for their religion, its altars,  shrines, and monuments, was
the real cause of their final  victory. We shall behold a truly Christian people battling 
against paganism in its most revolting and audacious form.

But, first, how stood the case in England?

"It is not a little extraordinary," says a sagacious writer in  the Dublin Review (vol. xxxii.,
p. 203), "that the three  successive conquests of England by the Anglo-Saxons, Danes, and 
Normans, were in fact conquests made by the same people, and, in  the last two instances, over
those who were not only descended  from the same stock, but who had immigrated from the very
same  localities. The Jutes, Angles, and Saxons, were for the most  part Danes or of Danish
origin. Their invasion of England  commenced by plunder and ended by conquest. These were 
overthrown by the Danes and Norwegians in precisely the same  manner.

"In the year 875, Roll or Rollo, having been expelled from  Norway by Harold Harfager, adopted
the profession of a sea-kong,  and in the short space of sixteen years became Duke of Normandy
and son-in-law of the French king, after having previously  repudiated his wife. The sixth
duke in succession from Rollo was  William, illegitimate son of Robert le Diable and Herleva,
a  concubine. By the battle of Hastings, which William gained in  1066, over King Harold, who
was slain in it, the former became  sovereign of England, and instead of the appellation of
'the  Bastard,' by which he had been hitherto known, he now obtained  the surname of 'the Conqueror.'

"Thus both the Saxon and Danish invaders were subdued by their  Norman brethren."

All the Scandinavian invasions of England were, therefore,  successful, each in turn giving
way before a new one; and it is  not a little remarkable that the very year in which Brian
Boru  dealt a death-blow to the Danes at Clontarf witnessed the  complete subjection of England
by Canute.

The success of the Northmen in France is still more worthy of  attention. Their invasions began
soon after the death of  Charlemagne. It is said that, before his demise, hearing of the  appearance
of one of their fleets not far from the mouth of the  Rhine, he shed tears, and foretold the
innumerable evils it  portended.  He saw, no doubt, that the long and oft-repeated  efforts
of his life to subdue and convert the northern Saxons  would fail to obtain for his successors
the peace he had hoped  to win by his sword, and, knowing from the Saxons themselves the  relentless
ferocity, audacity, and frightful cruelty, inoculated  in their Scandinavian blood, he could
not but expect for his  empire the fierce attacks which were preparing in the arctic  seas.
All his life had he been a conqueror, and under his sway  the Franks, whom he had ever led
to victory, acquired a name  through Europe for military glory which, he dreaded, would no
longer remain untarnished.  His forebodings, however, could not  be shared by any of those
who surrounded him in his old age; his  eagle eye alone discerned the coming misfortunes.

Seven times had the great emperor subdued the Saxons. He had  crushed them effectually, since
he could not otherwise prevent  them from disturbing his empire. The Franks, who formed his
army, were therefore the real conquerors of Western Europe. Starting  from the banks of the
Rhine, they subjugated the north as far as  the Baltic Sea; they conquered Italy as far south
as Beneventum,  by their victories over the Lombards; by the subjugation of  Aquitaine, they
took possession of the whole of France; the only  check they had ever received was in the valley
of Roncevaux,  whence a part of one of their armies was compelled to retreat,  without, however,
losing Catalonia, which they had won.

Nevertheless, we see them a few years after powerless and  stricken with terror at the very
name of the Northmen, as soon  as Hastings and Rollo appeared. Those sea-rovers established
themselves straightway in the very centre of the Frankish  dominion; for it was at the mouth
of the Rhine, in the island of  Walcheren, that they formed their first camp. From Walcheren
they swept both banks of the Rhine, and, after enriching  themselves with the spoils of monasteries,
cathedrals, and  palaces, they thought of other countries. Then began the long  series of spoliations
which desolated the whole of France along  the Seine, the Loire, and the Garonne.

Opposition they scarcely encountered. Paris alone, of all the  great cities of France, sustained
a long siege, and finally  bought them off by tribute. The military power of the nation was
annihilated all at once, and of all French history this period  is undoubtedly the most humiliating
to a native of the soil.

And now let us see how the Irish met the same piratical  invasions.

We are already acquainted with the chief defect of their  political system, namely, its want
of centralization. The Ard- Righ was in fact but a nominal ruler, except in the small  province
which acknowledged his chieftainship only. Throughout  the rest of Ireland the provincial kings
were independent save  in name. Not only were they often reluctant to obey the Ard-Righ, but
they were not seldom at open war with him. Nor are we to  suppose that, at least in the case
of a serious attack from  without, their patriotism overcame their private differences,  and
made them combine together to show a common front against a  common foe. In a patriarchal state
of government there is  scarcely any other form of patriotism than that of the  particular
sept to which each individual belongs. All the ideas,  customs, prejudices, are opposed to
united action.

Yet an invasion so formidable as that of the Scandinavian tribes  showed itself everywhere
to be, would have required all the  energies and resources of the whole country united under
one  powerful chief, particularly when it did not consist of one  single fearful irruption.

During two centuries large fleets of dingy, hide-bound barks  discharge on the shores of Erin
their successive cargoes of  human fiends, bent on rapine and carnage, and altogether proof
against fear of even the most horrible death, since such death  was to them the entry to the
eternal realms of their Walhalla.

But, at the period of which we speak, the terrible evil of a  want of centralization was greatly
aggravated by a change  occurring in the line which held the supreme power in the island.

The vigorous rule of a long succession of princes belonging to  the northern Hy-Niall line
gave way to the ascendency of the  southern branch of this great family; and the much more
limited  patrimony and alliances of this new quasi-dynasty rendered its  personal power very
inferior to that of the northern branch, and  consequently lessened the influence possessed
by the ruling  family in past times. In Ireland the connections, more or less  numerous, by
blood relationship with the great families, always  exercised a powerful influence over the
body of the nation in  rendering it docile and amenable to the will of the Ard-Righ.

Mullingar, in West Meath, was the abode of the southern Hy- Nialls, and Malachy of the Shannon,
the first Ard-Righ of this  line, succeeded King Niall of Callan in 843. The Danes were  already
in the country and had committed depredations. Their  first descent is mentioned by the Four
Masters as taking place  at Rathlin on the coast of Antrim in the year 790.

But the country was soon aroused; and religious feelings, always  uppermost in the Irish heart,
supplied the deficiencies of the  constitution of the state and the particularly unfavorable
circumstances of the period. The Danes, as usual, first attacked  the monasteries and churches,
and this alone was enough to  kindle in the breasts of the people the spirit of resistance
and  retaliation.  Iona was laid waste in 797, and again in 801 and  805. "To save from the
rapacity of the Danes," says Montalembert  in his Monks of the West, "a treasure which no pious
liberality  could replace, the body of S. Columba was carried to Ireland.  And it is the unvarying
tradition of Irish annals, that it was  deposited finally at Down, in an episcopal monastery,
not far  from the eastern shore of the island, between the great  monastery of Bangor in the
North, and Dublin the future capital  of Ireland, in the South."

Ireland was first assailed by the Danes on the north immediately  after they had gained possession
of the Hebrides; but the coasts  of Germany, Belgium, and France had witnessed their attacks
long  before. Religion was the first to suffer; and as the Island of  Saints was at the time
of their descent covered with churches  and monasteries, the Scandinavian barbarians found
in these a  rich harvest which induced them to return again and again. The  first expedition
consisted of only a few boats and a small body  of men. Nevertheless, as their irruptions were
unexpected, and  the people were unprepared for resistance, many holy edifices  suffered from
these attacks, and a great number of priests and  monks were murdered.

We read that Armagh with its cathedral and monasteries was  plundered four times in one month,
and in Bangor nine hundred  monks were slaughtered in a single day. The majority of the  inmates
of those houses fled with their books and the relics of  their saints at the approach of the
invaders, but, returning to  their desecrated homes after the departure of the pirates, gave
cause for those successive plunderings.

But the Irish did not always fly in dismay, as was the case in  England and France. A force
was generally mustered in the  neighborhood to meet and repel the attack, and in numerous 
instances the marauders were driven back with slaughter to their  ships.

For the clans rallied to the defence of the Church. Though the  chieftains and their clansmen
might seem to have failed fully to  imbibe the spirit of religion, though in their insane feuds
they  often turned a deaf ear to the remonstrances and reproaches of  the bishops and monks,
nevertheless Christianity reigned supreme  in their inmost hearts. And when they beheld pagans
landed on  their shores, to insult their faith and destroy the monuments of  their religion,
to shed the blood of holy men, of consecrated  virgins, and of innocent children, they turned
that bravery  which they had so often used against themselves and for the  satisfaction of
worthless contentions into a new and a more  fitting channel--the defence of their altars and
the punishment  of sacrilegious outrage.

The clan system was the very best adapted for this kind of  warfare, so long as no large fleets
came, and the pirates were  too few in number and too sagacious in mind to think of  venturing
far inland. When but a small number of boats arrived,  the invaders found in the neighborhood
a clan ready to receive  them. The clansmen speedily assembled, and, falling on the  plundering
crews, showed them how different were the free men of  a Celtic coast, who were inspired by
a genuine love for their  faith, from the degenerate sons of the Gallo-Romans.

So the annals of the country tell us that the "foreigners" were  destroyed in 812 by the men
of Umhall in Mayo; by Corrach, lord  of Killarney, in the same year; by the men of Ulidia and
by  Carbry with the men of Hy-Kinsella in 827; by the clansmen of Hy- Figeinte, near Limerick,
in 834, and many more.

But the hydra had a thousand heads, and new expeditions were  continually arriving. In the
words of Mr. Worsaae, a Danish  writer of this century:

"From time immemorial Ireland was celebrated in the Scandinavian  north, for its charming situation,
its mild climate, and its  fertility and beauty. The Kongspell--mirror of Kings--which was
compiled in Norway about the year 1200, says that Ireland is  almost the best of the lands
we are acquainted with although no  vines grow there. The Scandinavian Vikings and emigrants,
who  often contented themselves with such poor countries as Greenland  and the islands in the
north Atlantic, must, therefore, have  especially turned their attention to the 'Emerald Isle,'
particularly as it bordered closely upon their colonies in  England and Scotland. But to make
conquests in Ireland, and to  acquire by the sword alone permanent settlements there, was no
easy task.... When we consider that neither the Romans nor the  Anglo-Saxons ever obtained
a footing in that country, although  they had conquered England, the adjacent isle, and when
we  further reflect upon the immense power exerted by the English in  later times in order
to subdue the Celtic population of the  island, we cannot help being surprised at the very
considerable  Scandinavian settlements which, as early as the ninth century,  were formed in
that country."

These are the words of a Dane. We shall see what the "very  considerable Scandinavian settlements"
amounted to; the  quotation is worthy of note, as presenting in a few words the  motives of
those who at any time invaded Ireland, and the  stubborn resistance which they met.

The Irish were not dismayed by the constant arrivals of those  northern hordes. They met them
one after another without  considering their complexity and connection. They only saw a  troop
of fierce barbarians landed on their shores, chiefly  intent upon plundering and burning the
churches and holy houses  which they had erected; they saw their island, hitherto  protected
by the ocean from foreign attack, and resting in the  enjoyment of a constant round of Christian
festivals and joyful  feasts, now desecrated by the presence and the fury of ferocious  pagans;
they armed for the defence of all that is dear to man;  and though, perhaps, at first beaten
and driven back, they  mustered in force at a distance to fall on the victors with a  swoop
of noble birds who fly to the defence of their young.

This kind of contest continued for two hundred years, with the  exception of the periods of
larger invasions, when a single clan  no longer sufficed to avenge the cause of God and humanity,
and  the Ard-Righ was compelled to throw himself on the scene at the  head of the whole collective
force of the nation in order to  oppose the vast fleets and large armies of the Danes.

The country suffered undoubtedly; the cattle were slain; the  fields devastated; the churches
and houses burned; the poets  silenced or woke their song only to notes of woe; the harpers
taught the national instrument the music of sadness; the  numerous schools were scattered,
though never destroyed; as  centuries later, under the Saxon, the people took their books or
writing materials to their miserable cottages or hid them in the  mountain fastnesses, and
thus, for the first time in their  history, the hedge school succeeded those of the large 
monasteries. So the nation continued to live on, the energetic  fire which burned in the hearts
of the people could not be  quenched. They rose and rose again, and often took a noble  revenge,
never disheartened by the most utter disaster.

On three different occasions this bloody strife assumed a yet  more serious and dangerous aspect.
It was not a few boats only  which came to the shores of the devoted island; but the main 
power of Scandinavia seemed to combine in order to crush all  opposition at a single blow.

When the knowledge of the richness, fertility, and beauty of the  island had fully spread throughout
Denmark and Norway, a large  fleet gathered in the harbors of the Baltic and put to sea. The
famous Turgesius or Turgeis--Thorgyl in the Norse--was the  leader. The Edda and Sagas of Norway
and Denmark have been  examined with a view to elucidate this passage in Irish history,  but
thus far fruitlessly. It is known, however, that many Sagas  have been lost which might have
contained an account of it. The  Irish annals are too unanimous on the subject to leave any
possibility of doubt with regard to it; and, whatever may be the  opinion of learned men on
the early events in the history of  Erin, the story of the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries
rests  entirely on historical ground, as surely as if the facts had  happened a few hundred
years ago.

