PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

September 5, 1891.

SOME CIRCULAR NOTES.

CHAPTER III.

REIMS--NIGHT--STREETS--ARRIVAL--LION D'OR--DEPRESSION--LANDLADY--BOOTS--CATHEDRAL--LONELINESS--BED.

It is just ten o'clock. Reims seems to be in bed and fast asleep, except for the presence in
the streets of a very few persons, official and unofficial, of whom the former are evidently
on the alert as to the movements, slouching and uncertain, of the latter.

We drive under ancient Roman Arch; DAUBINET tells me its history in a vague kind of way, breaking
off suddenly to say that I shall see it to-morrow, when, so he evidently wishes me to infer,
the Roman Arch will speak for itself. Then we drive past a desolate-looking Museum. I believe
it is a Museum, though DAUBINET's information is a trifle uncertain on this point.

We pass a theatre, brilliantly illuminated. I see posters on the wall advertising the performance.
A gendarme, in full uniform, as if he had come out after playing Sergeant Lupy in Robert Macaire,
is pensively airing himself under the façade, but there is no one else within sight,--no one;
not a cocher with whom Sergeant Lupy can chat, nor even a gamin to be ordered off; and though,
from one point of view, this exterior desolation may argue well for the business the theatre
is doing, yet, as there is no logical certainty that the people, who do not appear outside
a show, should therefore necessarily be inside it, the temple of the Drama may, after all,
be as empty as was Mr. Crummles' Theatre, when somebody, looking through a hole in the curtain,
announced, in a state of great excitement, the advent of another boy to the pit.

And now we rattle over the stones joltingly, along a fairly well-lighted street. All the shops
fast asleep, with their eyelids closed, that is, their shutters up, all except one establishment,
garishly lighted and of defiantly rakish, appearance, with the words Café Chantant written
up in jets of gas; and within this Café, as we jolt along, I espy a dame du comptoir, a weary
waiter, and two or three second-class, flashy-looking customers, drinking, smoking, perhaps
arguing, at all events, gesticulating, which, with the low-class Frenchmen, comes to much the
same thing in the end, the end probably being their expulsion from the drinking-saloon. Where
is the chantant portion of the café? I cannot see,--perhaps in some inner recess. With this
flash of brilliancy, all sign of life in Reims disappears. We drive on, jolted and rattled
over the cobble stones--(if not cobble, what are they? Wobble?)--and so up to the Lion d'Or.

I am depressed. I can't help it. It is depressing to be the only prisoners in a black van;
I should have said "passengers," but the sombre character of the omnibus suggests "Black Maria;"
it is depressing (I repeat to myself), to be the only two passengers driving through a dead
town at night-time, as if we were the very personification of "the dead of night" being taken
out in a hearse to the nearest cemetery. Even DAUBINET feels it, for he is silent, except when
he tries to rouse himself by exclaiming "Caramba!" Only twice does he make the attempt, and
then, meeting with no response from me, he collapses. Nor does it relieve depression to be
set down in a solemn courtyard, lighted by a solitary gas-lamp. This in itself would be quite
sufficient to make a weary traveller melancholy, without the tolling of a gruesome bell to
announce our arrival. This dispiriting sound seems to affect nobody in the house, except a
lengthy young man in a desperate state of unwakefulness, who sleepily resents our arrival in
the midst of his first slumber (he must have gone to bed at nine), and drowsily expresses a
wish to be informed (for he will not take the trouble to examine into the matter for himself)
whether we have any luggage; and this sense of depression becomes aggravated and intensified
when no genial Boniface (as the landlord used invariably to be styled in romances of half a
century ago) comes forth to greet us with a hearty welcome, and no buxom smiling hostess, is
there to order the trim waiting-maid, with polished candlestick, "to show the gentleman his
room." And, at length, when a hostess, amiable but shivering, does appear, there is still an
absence of all geniality; no questions are asked as to what we might like to take in the way
of refreshment, there is no fire to cheer us, no warm drinks are suggested, no apparent probability
of getting food or liquor, even if we wanted it, which, thank Heaven, we don't, not having
recovered from the last hurriedly-swallowed meal at the railway buffet en route. Yes, at the
"Lion d'Or" at Reims, on this occasion, hic et nunc, is a combination of melancholy circumstances
which would have delighted Mark Tapley, and, as far as I know, Mark Tapley only.

"On an occasion like this," I murmur to myself, having no one else to whom I can murmur it
confidentially,--for DAUBINET, having a knowledge of the house, has disappeared down some mysterious
passage in order to examine and choose our rooms,--"there is, indeed, some merit in being jolly."

DAUBINET returns. He has found the rooms. The somnolent boots will carry our things upstairs.
Which of the two rooms will I have? They are en suite. I make no choice. It is, I protest,
a matter of perfect indifference to me; but one room being infinitely superior to the other,
I select it, apologetically. DAUBINET, being more of a Mark Tapley than I am, is quite satisfied
with the arrangement, and has almost entirely recovered his wonted high spirits.

"Very good. Très bien! Da! Petzikoff! Pedadjoi! I shall sleep like a top. Bon soir! Buono notte!
Karascho! Blass the Prince of WAILES!" and he has disappeared into his bedroom. I never knew
a man so quick in unpacking, getting into bed, and going to sleep. He hasn't far to go, or
else Morpheus must have caught him up, en route, and hypnotised him. I hear him singing and
humming for two minutes; I hear him calling out to me, "All right? Are you all right?" and,
once again invoking the spirit of Mark Tapley, I throw all the joviality I can into my reply
as I say, through the wall, "Quite, thanks. Jolly! Good-night!" But my reply is wasted on him;
he has turned a deaf ear to me, the other being on the pillow, and gives no sign. If he is
asleep, the suddenness of the collapse is almost alarming. Once again I address him. No answer.
I continue my unpacking. All my portmanteau arrangements seem to have become unaccountably
complicated. I pause and look round. Cheerless. The room is bare and lofty, the bed is small,
the window is large, and the one solitary bougie sheds a gloom around which makes unpacking
a difficulty. I pull up the blind. A lovely moonlight night. In front of me, as if it had had
the politeness to put itself out of the way to walk up here, and pay me a visit, stands the
Cathedral, that is--some of it; but what I can see of it, au clair de la lune, fascinates me.
It is company, it is friendly. But it is chilly all the same, and the sooner I close the window
and retire the better. Usual difficulty, of course, in closing French window. After a violent
struggle, it is done. The bed looks chilly, and I feel sure that that stuffed, pillow-like
thing, which is to do duty for blanket and coverlet, can't be warm enough.

Hark! a gentle snore. A very gentle one. It is the first time I ever knew a snore exercise
a soothing effect on the listener. This is decidedly soporific. It is an invitation to sleep.
I accept. The Cathedral clock sounds a carillon. It plays half a tune, too, as if this was
all it had learnt up to the present, or perhaps to intimate that there is more where that comes
from, only I must wait for to-morrow, and be contented with this instalment. I am. Half a tune
is better than no tune at all, or vice versâ: it doesn't matter. When the tune breaks off I
murmur to myself, "To be continued in our next;" and so--as I believe, for I remember nothing
after this--I doze off to sleep on this my first night in the ancient town of Reims.

       *       *       *       *       *

BUMBLE BROUGHT TO BOOK.

    ["Mr. Ritchie ... has taken the unusual step of preparing a
    memorandum explanatory of ... the Public Health (London)
    Act, which comes into operation on the 1st of January ...
    The Vestries and District Councils ... have come out with
    increased powers, but also with increased responsibilities.
    They are in future known as 'the sanitary authorities'; they
    must make bye-laws, and enforce not only their own, but
    those made by the County Council; and, if they fail in their
    duty--as, for example, in the matter of removing house-refuse,
    or keeping the streets clean--they are liable to a fine. It is
    pleasant to think that, in future, any ratepayer may bring Mr.
    Bumble to book."--The Times.]

Bumble. Wot, more dooties piled upon me? It's a beastly black shame
      and a bore.
  Which Ritchie beats Oliver Twist in a canter at "asking for more."
  Didn't grasp his dashed Hact, not at fust, though of course I opposed
      it like fun;
  But this 'ere Memyrandum's a startler. I want to know what's to be done.
  Me keep the streets clean, me go poking my dalicot nose into 'oles
  As ain't fit for 'ogs, but is kep' for them Sweaters' pale wictims--pore
      soles?
  Me see that the dust-pails is emptied, and underground bedrooms made
      sweet?
  Me nail the Court Notices hup upon Butchers as deals in bad meat?
  Great Scissors, it's somethink houtrageous. I knew Ritchie's Act meant
      'ard lines,
  And it's wus than I could 'ave emagined. But wot I funk most is them
      FINES!!!
  Fine Me--if I make a mistake, as, perhaps, even BUMBLE may do!
  That is turning the tables a twister! More powers? Ah, well, that
      might do,
  But increase my great "Responsibilities," give them Ratepayers a chance
  Of a calling me hover the coals! Won't this make my hold henemies dance?
  I never did like that HYGEIA, a pompous and nose-poking minx--
  A sort of a female Poll Pry, with a heye like an 'ork or a lynx;
  But the making me "Sanit'ry," too--oh, I know wot that means to a T.
  She's cock--or say, hen--of the walk, and her sanit'ry slave'll be Me!
  Oh, I fancy I see myself sweeping the snow from the streets with a broom,
  Or explorin'--with fingers to nose--some effluvious hunderground room!
  Or a-trotting around with the dust-pails when scavengers chance to run
      short!
  Oh, just won't the street-boys chyike me and 'ousemaids of BUMBLE make
      sport?
  Disgustin'! But there RITCHIE stands with his dashed Memyrandum. A look
  In his heye seems to tell me that he too enjoys bringing BUMBLE to book,
  As the Times--I'm serprised at that paper!--most pleasantly puts it
      to-day.
  My friend BONES the Butcher too! Moses! wot would my old parlour-chum
      say
  If he saw me a nailing a Notice--but no, that's too horrid a dream.
  I must be a 'aving a Nightmare, and things cannot be wot they seem.
  I could do with mere Laws--bye or hother-wise--Hacts, jest like Honours,
      is easy,
  But this Memyrandum of RITCHIE's queers BUMBLE, and makes him feel queasy,
  Can't pertend as I don't hunderstand it, it's plain as my nose, clear as
      mud.
  I'm responsible for--say Snow-clearing! It stirs up a Beadle's best
      blood!
  And when they can Fine me for negligence, jest like some rate-paying
      scrub--
  Oh! Porochial dignity's bust! I must seek a pick-up at my Pub!

[Does so.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"FIRST-CLASS" TRAVELLING

MADE EASY, BY PAYING A "THIRD-CLASS" FARE AND A SMALL ADDITIONAL TIP.

(BY ONE WHO HAS DONE IT.)

1. Arrive at station in four-wheeler, accompanied by lots of superfluous rugs, wraps, air-cushions,
and pillows, &c., and if your domestic arrangements permit of it, two young ladies and one
middle-aged one, who should assume an anxious and sympathetic mien.

2. On your cab drawing up, stay with a gentle forbearance the rush of the ordinary attentive
porter, and request him, as if you had something important to communicate, to send you "the
guard of the train" by which you propose to travel. On the appearance of this official, who
will not fail to turn up, you will now appeal to one of your three female assistants, the middle-aged
one for choice. Placing your case, as it were, in her hands, she will, in a half-sympathetic,
half-commanding tone, address the official somewhat as follows:--"This gentleman, who is travelling
to Barminster, and is going third-class (she makes a point of this), is, as you see, a great
invalid, and he will require (this with a certain sense of being understood to mean a handsome
tip) a carriage to himself." If said with a certain self-assurance, involving a species of
lofty wink, this will probably be understood in the right sense by the official in question,
and will be probably met by some such assurance as--"The train is very full, Madam, but I will
do my best for the gentleman, and can ensure him, I think, a compartment to himself, at least,
as far as Bolchester, where I leave the train. But I will explain the matter to my successor,
and I have no doubt that he will be able (this also with a significant wink) to ensure the
gentleman's seclusion. You are, I think, four? If you will follow me, and take my arm, Sir,
I think we shall be able to manage it for you."

3. Enlist the assistance of several attendant porters, regardless of apparent outlay, who have
been fairly let into your secret, and are prepared to, and in fact absolutely do, empty a third-class
compartment already packed with passengers for Barminster, who retreat awe-stricken at your
approach.

4. Immediately on taking possession of your carriage, recline the whole length of the five
seats, faced by your three sympathetic and anxious-miened female companions. Be careful to
give each of the assistant porters certainly not less than sixpence apiece in ostentatious
fashion. Do not, however, as yet administer the shilling, or perhaps, eighteenpence you purpose
giving to the original guard of the train who is to hand you over to the official who will
have charge of you after Bolchester.

5. You will possibly have a mauvais quart d'heure before departure, for though your guard,
in hopes of the remunerative fee, will have carefully locked you in, he will not be able to
prevent the calculating and more or less unfeeling British public, who, composed of a party
of nine, are looking for as many places as they can find together, from discovering that you
have six vacant places in your carriage, and directing the attention of other railway officials,
not initiated into your secret agreement, to this circumstance. You must therefore be prepared
for some such curt brutality as, "Why, look 'ere, EMMA, there's room for 'arf-a-dozen of us
'ere!" or, "I'm sure 'e needn't be a sprawlin' like that, takin' 'arf the carriage to 'isself,"
a rebuke which your feminine supporters resent in their severest manner. You are, however,
at length saved by the interposition of your guardian angel, who sweeps away the party of nine
unseated ones with a voice of commanding control, as much as to say, "This isn't your end of
the train; besides, can't you see the poor gentleman's pretty well dying?" And he does hurry
them off, and pack them in somewhere or other, but whether to their satisfaction or not, it
is easier to hazard a guess than faithfully to record.

6. Bolchester is reached, and you are formally introduced to your final guarding and protecting
angel, who rapidly takes in the situation, and by an assurance that he will see to your comfort,
this, accompanied by a slightly perceptible wink, leaves you in happy expectation, which the
result justifies, of reaching your destination uninvaded.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

    NO. V. Scene--Upper deck of the Rhine Steamer, König
    Wilhelm, somewhere between Bonn and Bingen. The little
    tables on deck are occupied by English, American, and German
    tourists, drinking various liquids, from hock to Pilsener
    beer, and eating veal-cutlets. Mr. CYRUS K. TROTTER is on
    the lower deck, discussing the comparative merits of the New
    York hotels with a fellow countryman. Miss MAUD S. TROTTER
    is seated on the after-deck in close conversation with
    CULCHARD. PODBURY is perched on a camp-stool in the forward
    part. Near him a British Matron, with a red-haired son, in
    a green and black blazer, and a blue flannel nightcap, and a
    bevy of rabbit-faced daughters, are patronising a tame German
    Student in spectacles, who speaks a little English.

The British Matron. Oh, you ought to see London; it's our capital--chief city, you know. Very
grand--large--four million inhabitants! [With pride, as being in some way responsible for this.

A Rabbit-faced Daughter (with a simper). Quite a little world!

    [She looks down her nose, as if in fear of having said
    something a little too original.

The Germ. Stud. No, I haf not yet at London peen. Ven I vill pedder Englisch learn, I go.

The Blazer. You read our English books, I suppose? DICKENS, you know, and HOMER, eh? About
the Trojan War--that's his best work!

The Stud. (Ollendorffically). I haf not read DIGGINS; but I haf read ze bapers by Bigvig. Zey
are vary indereshtin, and gurious.

A Patriotic Young Scot (to an admiring Elderly Lady in a black mushroom hat). Eh, but we just
made a pairrty and went up Auld Drachenfels, and when we got to th' tope, we danced a richt
gude Scots reel, and sang, "We're a' togither an' naebody by." concluding--just to show, ye'll
understan', that we were loyal subjics--wi' "God Save th' Queen." The peasants didna seem just
to know what to mak' of us, I prawmise ye!

The Black Mushroom. How I wish I'd been one of you!

The Young Scot (candidly). I doot your legs would ha' stood such wark.

    [PODBURY becomes restless, and picks his way among the
    camp-stools to CULCHARD and Miss TROTTER.

Podbury (to himself). Time I had a look in, I think. (Aloud.) Well, Miss Trotter, what do you
think of the Rhine, as far as you've got?

Miss T. Well, I guess it's navigable, as far as I've got.

Podb. No, but I mean to say--does it come up to the mark in the scenery line, you know?

Miss T. I cannot answer that till I know whereabouts it is they mark the scenery-line. I expect
Mr. CULCHARD knows. He knows pretty well everything. Would you like to have him explain the
scenery to you going along? His explanations are vurry improving, I assure you.

Podb. I daresay; but the scenery just here is so flat that even my friend's remarks won't improve
it.

Culch. (producing his note-book ostentatiously). I do not propose to attempt it. No doubt you
will be more successful in entertaining Miss TROTTER than I can pretend to be. I retire in
your favour. [He scribbles.

Podb. Is that our expenses you're corking down there, CULCHARD, eh?

Culch. (with dignity). If you want to know, I am "corking down," to adopt your elegant expression,
a sonnet that suggested itself to me.

Podb. Much better cork that up, old chap--hadn't he, Miss TROTTER?

    [He glances at her for appreciation.

Miss T. That's so. I don't believe the poetic spirit has much chance of slopping over so long
as Mr. PODBURY is around. You have considerable merit as a stopper, Mr. PODBURY.

Podb. I see; I'd better clear out till the poetry has all gurgled out of him, eh? Is that the idea?

Miss T. If it is, it's your own, so I guess it's a pretty good one.

    [PODBURY shoulders off.

Culch. (with his pathetic stop on). I wish I had more of your divine patience! Poor fellow,
he is not without his good points; but I do find him a thorn in my flesh occasionally, I'm afraid.

Miss T. Well, I don't know as a thorn in the flesh is any the pleasanter for having a good point.

Culch. Profoundly true, indeed. I often think I could like him better if there were less in
him to like. I assure you he tries me so at times that I could almost wish I was back at work
in my department at Somerset House!

Miss T. I daresay you have pretty good times there, too. Isn't that one of your leading dry
goods stores?

Culch. (pained). It is not; it is a Government Office, and I am in the Pigeonhole and Docket
Department, with important duties to discharge. I hope you didn't imagine I sold ribbons and
calico over a counter?

Miss T. (ambiguously). Well, I wasn't just sure. It takes a pretty bright man to do that where
I come from.

An Old Lady (who is sitting next to PODBURY, and reading a home-letter to another Old Lady).
"Dear MARIA and dear MADELINE are close by, they have taken very comfortable lodgings in Marine
Crescent. Dear MADELINE's frame is expected down next Saturday."

Second Old Lady. MADELINE's frame! Is anything wrong with the poor girl's spine?

First Old Lady. I never heard of it. Oh, I see, it's fiancé, my dear. CAROLINE does write so
illegibly. (Continuing.) "Um--um,--suppose you know she will be maimed--" (perhaps it is her
spine after all--oh, married, to be sure), "very slowly" (is it slowly or shortly, I wonder?),
um--um, "very quiet wedding, nobody but dear Mr. WILKINSON and his hatter."

Second O.L. The idea of choosing one's hatter for one's best man! I'm surprised MARIA should
allow it!

First O.L. Maria always was peculiar--still, now I come to look, it's more like "brother,"
which is certainly much more suitable. (Continuing.) "She will have no--no bird's-marks ..."
(Now, what does that--should you think that meant "crows-feet"? Oh, no, how stupid of me--bridesmaids,
of course!)--"and will go to the otter a plain guy"--(Oh, Caroline really is too....)--"to
the altar in plain grey! She has been given such quantities of pea-nuts"--(very odd things
to give a girl! Oh, presents! um, um)--"Not settled yet where to go for their hangman"--(the
officiating clergyman, I suppose--very flippant way of putting it, I must say! It's meant for
honeymoon, though, I see, to be sure!) &c., &c.

Culch. I should like to be at Nuremberg with you. It would be an unspeakable delight to watch
the expansion of a fresh young soul in that rich mediæval atmosphere!

Miss T. I guess you'll have opportunities of watching Mr. PODBURY's fresh young soul under
those conditions, any way.

Culch. It would not be at all the same thing--even if he--but you do think you're coming to
Nuremberg, don't you?

Miss T. Well, it's this way. Poppa don't want to get fooling around any more one-horse towns
than he can help, and he's got to be fixed up with the idea that Nuremberg is a prominent European
sight before he drops everything to get there.

Culch. I will undertake to interest him in Nuremberg. Fortunately, we are all getting off at
Bingen, and going, curiously enough, to the same hotel. (To himself.) Confound that fellow
PODBURY, here he is again!

Podb. (to himself, as he advances). If she's carrying on with that fellow, CULCHARD, to provoke
me, I'll soon show her how little I--(Aloud.) I say, old man, hope I'm not interrupting you,
but I just want to speak to you for a minute, if Miss TROTTER will excuse us. Is there any
particular point in going as far as Bingen to-night, eh?

Culch. (resignedly). As much as there is in not going farther than somewhere else, I should
have thought.

Podb. Well, but look here--why not stop at Bacharach, and see what sort of a place it is?

Culch. You forget that our time is limited if we're going to stick to our original route.

Podb. Yes, of course; mustn't waste any on the Rhine. Suppose we push on to Maintz to-night,
and get the Rhine off our hands then? (With a glance at Miss TROTTER.) The sooner I've done
with this steamer business the better!

Miss T. Well, Mr. PODBURY, that's not a vurry complimentary remark to make before me!

Podb. We've seen so little of one another lately that it can hardly make much difference--to
either of us--can it?

Miss T. Now I call that real kind, you're consoling me in advance!

The Steward (coming up). De dickets dat I haf nod yed seen! (examining CULCHARD's coupons).
For Bingen--so?

Culch. I am. This gentleman gets off--is it Bacharach or Maintz, PODBURY?

Podb. (sulkily). Neither, as it happens. I'm for Bingen, too, as you won't go anywhere else.
Though you did say when we started, that the advantage of travelling like this was that we
could go on or stop just as the fancy took us!

Culch. (calmly). I did, my dear PODBURY. But it never occurred to me that the fancy would take
you to get tired of a place before you got there!

Podb. (as he walks forwards). Hang that fellow! I know I shall punch his head some day. And
She didn't seem to care whether I stayed or not. (Hopefully.) But you never can tell with women!

    [He returns to his camp-stool and the letter-reading Old
    Ladies.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SONG IN SEASON.

    'Twas the autumn time, dear love,
    The English autumn weather;
  And, oh, it was sweet, it was hard to beat
    As we sailed that day together!
    It was cold when we started out,
    As we noted with sad surprise;
  And the tip of your nose was as blue, I suppose,
    As the blue of your dear, dear eyes.

    We sailed to Hampton Court,
    And the sun had burnt us black;
  Then we dodged a shower for the half of an hour,
    And then we skated back;
    Till the weather grew depressed
    At the shifting state of its luck,
  And the glass, set fair, gave it up in despair,
    And much of the lightning struck.

    We sat on the bank in the storm,
    In the steady fall of the snow,
  In the stinging hail and the howling gale,
    And the scorching sun, you know;
    We sat in it all--yes, all!
    We cared for no kind of weather--
  What made us so mad was the fact that we had
    The whole of the kinds together.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT'S FUTURE.

