"Well, so it is; that's very true but not original. I have heard the same remark at least six
times this morning. I say, Master Stukely, you haven't been casting sheep's-eyes in that sweet
quarter, have you? Haven't, perhaps, been giving the young lady instruction as well as the
boys--eh?"

"I do not understand, sir," I struggled to say with coolness.

"Oh, very well!" answered Dr. Mayhew dryly. "That's very unfortunate too, for," continued he,
taking out his watch, "I haven't time to explain myself just now. I have an appointment four
miles away in half an hour's time. I am late as it is. Williams will get you some lunch. Tell
Fairman I shall see him before night. Make yourself perfectly at home, and don't hurry. But
excuse me; this affair has made me quite behindhand."

The Doctor took a few papers and a book from the table, and before I had time to reply, vanished,
much to my relief and satisfaction. My journey homeward was not a happy one. I felt alarm and
agitation, and the beautiful scenery failed to remove or temper them. My heart's dear secret
had been once more discovered. Rumour could not omit to convey it speedily to the minister
himself. In two directions the flame had now power to advance and spread; and if the old villager
remained faithful, what reason had I to hope that Dr. Mayhew would not immediately expose me--yes,
must not regard it as his business and duty so to do? Yet one thing was certain. The secret,
such as it had become, might, for all practical purposes, be known to the whole world, for
unquestionably the shallowest observer was at present able to detect it. The old woman in the
village, aged and ignorant as she was, had been skilful enough to discover it when I spoke.
The doctor had gathered it from my looks even before I uttered a syllable. What was to hinder
the incumbent from reading the tale on my forehead the moment that I again stood in his presence?

Reaching the parsonage, I proceeded at once to the drawing-room, where I expected to see the
minister. No one was in the room, but a chair was drawn to the table, and the implements of
drawing were before it. Could I not guess who had been the recent tenant of that happy chair--who
had been busy there? Forgetful of every thing but her, I stood for a time in silent adoration
of the absent one; then I ventured to approach and gaze upon her handiwork. I shook with joy,
with ravishment, and ecstasy, when I beheld it. What was not made known to me in that one hasty
look! What golden dreams did not engage, what blissful triumph did not elevate, what passionate
delight did not overflow my aching heart! Oh, it was true--and the blessed intelligence came
to me with a power and a reality that no language could contain--SHE LOVED ME! she, the beloved,
the good, the innocent, and pure! Before me was the scene--the dearest to me in life--through
which we had so recently walked together, and upon which she knew I doated, for the sake of
her whose presence had given it light and hallowed it. Why had she brought it on the paper?
Why this particular scene, and that fair hillock, but for the sake of him who worshipped them--but
that the mysterious and communicable fire had touched her soul, and melted it? I trembled with
my happiness. There was a spot upon the paper--a tear--one sacred drop from the immaculate
fount. Why had it been shed? In joy or pain--for whom--and wherefore? The paper was still moist--the
tear still warm. Happiest and most unfortunate of my race, I pressed it to my lips, and kissed
it passionately.

Miss Fairman entered at that moment.

She looked pale and ill. This was not a season for consideration. Before I could speak, I saw
her tottering, and about to fall. I rushed to her and held her in my arms. She strove for recovery,
and set herself at liberty; but she wept aloud as she did so, and covered her face with her
hands. I fell upon my knees, and implored her to forgive me.

"I have been rash and cruel, Miss Fairman, but extend to me your pardon, and I will go for
ever, and disturb your peace no more. Do not despise me, or believe that I have deliberately
interfered with your happiness, and destroyed my own for ever. Do not hate me when I shall
see you no more."

"Leave me, Mr. Stukely, I entreat," sobbed Miss Fairman, weeping amain. Her hand fell. I was
inflamed with passion, and I became indifferent to the claims of duty, which were drowned in
the louder clamours of love. I seized that hand and held it firm. It needed not, for the lady
sought not to withdraw it.

"I am not indifferent to you, dearest Miss Fairman," I exclaimed; "you do not hate me--you
do not despise me--I am sure you do not. That drawing has revealed to me all that I wish or
care to know. I would rather die this moment possessed of that knowledge, than live a monarch
without it."

"Leave me, leave me, I implore you," faltered Miss Fairman.

"Yes, dearest lady, I must--I shall leave you. I can stay no longer here. Life is valueless
now. I have permitted a raging fire to consume me. I have indulged, madly and fearfully indulged,
in error. I have struggled against the temptation. Heaven has willed that I should not escape
it. I have learnt that you love me--come what may, I am content."

"If you regard me, Mr. Stukely, pity me, and go, now. I beg, I entreat you to leave me."

I raised the quivering hand, and kissed it ardently. I resigned it, and departed.

My whole youth was a succession of inconsiderate yieldings to passion, and of hasty visitings
of remorse. It is not a matter of surprise that I hated myself for every word that I had spoken
as soon as I was again master of my conduct. It was my nature to fall into error against conviction
and my cool reason, and to experience speedily the reaction that succeeds the commission of
exorbitant crimes. In proportion to the facility with which I erred, was the extravagance and
exaggeration with which I viewed my faults. During the predominance of a passion, death, surrounded
by its terrors, would not have frighted me or driven me back--would not have received my passing
notice; whilst it lasted it prevailed. So, afterwards, when all was calm and over, a crushing
sense of wrong and guilt magnified the smallest offence, until it grew into a bugbear to scare
me night and day. Leaving Miss Fairman, I rushed into the garden, preparatory to running away
from the parsonage altogether. This, in the height of remorseful excitement, presented itself
to my mind forcibly as the necessary and only available step to adopt; but this soon came to
be regarded as open to numerous and powerful objections.

It seemed impossible that the incumbent could be kept any longer in ignorance of the affair;
and it was better--oh! how much better--for comfort and peace of mind that he should not be.
In a few hours Dr. Mayhew would arrive, and his shrewd eye would immediately penetrate to the
very seat of his patient's disquietude. The discovery would be communicated to her father--and
what would he think of me?--what would become of me? I grew as agitated as though the doctor
were at that moment seated with the minister--and revealing to his astounded listener the history
of my deceit and black ingratitude. The feeling was not to be borne; and in order to cast it
off, I determined myself to be the messenger of the tale, and to stand the brunt of his first
surprise and indignation. With the earliest conception of the idea, I ran to put it into execution.
Nor did I stop until I reached the door of his study, when the difficulty of introducing at
once so delicate a business, and the importance of a little quiet preparation, suggested themselves,
and made me hesitate. It was however, but for a moment for self-possession. I would argue with
myself no longer. The few hours that intervened before the arrival of the doctor were my own
and if I permitted them to pass away, my opportunity was gone for ever, and every claim upon
the kindness and forgiveness of my patron lost. I would confess my affection, and offer him
the only reparation in my power--to quit his roof, and carry the passion with me for my punishment
and torment.

Mr. Fairman was alone. The pupils were playing on the lawn upon which the window of the study
opened. There they ran, and leaped, and shouted, all feeling and enjoyment, without an atom
of the leaden care of life to press upon the light elastic soul; and there stood I, young enough
to be a playmate brother, separated from them and their hearts' joyousness by the deep broad
line which, once traversed, may never be recovered, ground to the earth by suffering, trial,
and disappointment; darkness and discouragement without; misery and self-upbraiding robbing
me of peace within. My eyes caught but a glimpse of the laughing boys before they settled on
the minister, and summoned me to my ungracious task--and it was a glimpse of a bright and beautiful
world, with which I had nothing in common, of which I had known something, it might be ages
since--but whose glory had departed even from the memory.

"Is he here?" enquired the incumbent.

"Doctor Mahew could not accompany me, sir," I answered, "but he will shortly come."

"Thank you, Stukely, thank you. I have good news for you. I can afford you time to recruit
and be yourself again. The lads return home on Monday next; you shall have a month's holiday,
and you shall spend it as you will--with us, or elsewhere. If your health will be improved
by travelling, I shall be happy to provide you with the means. I cannot afford to lose your
services. You must not get ill."

"You are very kind, sir," I replied--"kinder than I deserve."

"That is a matter of opinion, Stukely. I do not think so. You have served me faithfully and
well. I consult my own interest in rewarding you and taking care of yours."

"Yes, sir--but"--

"Well, never mind now. We will not argue on whose side the obligation lies. It is perhaps well
that we should both of us think as we do. It is likely that we shall both perform our duty
more strictly if we strike the balance against ourselves. Go and refresh yourself. You look
tired and worn. Get a glass of wine, and cheer up. Have you seen Miss Fairman?"

"It is concerning her, sir," I answered, trembling in every joint, "that I desire particularly
to speak to you."

"Good heaven!" exclaimed the incumbent, starting from his chair, "what do you mean? What is
the matter? What has happened? Why do you tremble, Stukely, and look so ghastly pale? What
has happened since the morning? What ails her? Go on. Speak. Tell me at once. My poor child--what
of her?"

"Calm yourself, I implore you, sir. Miss Fairman is quite well. Nothing has happened. Do not
distress yourself. I have done very wrong to speak so indiscreetly. Pardon me, sir. I should
have known better. She is well."

Mr. Fairman paced the room in perturbation, and held his hand upon his heart to allay its heavy
throbs.

"This is very wrong," he said--"very impious. I have thought of nothing else this day--and
this is the consequence. I have dwelt upon the probability of calamity, until I have persuaded
myself of its actual presence--looked for woe, until I have created it. This is not the patience
and resignation which I teach; for shame, for shame!--go to thy closet, worm--repent and pray."

Mr. Fairman resumed his seat, and hid his face for a time in his hands. At length he spoke again.

"Proceed, Stukely. I am calm now. The thoughts and fears in which it was most sinfull to indulge,
and which accumulated in this most anxious breast, are dissipated. What would you say? I can
listen as I ought."

"I am glad, sir, that the boys revisit their homes on Monday, and that a month, at least, will
elapse before their return to you. In that interval, you will have an opportunity of providing
them with a teacher worthier your regard and confidence; and, if I leave you at once, you will
not be put to inconvenience."

"I do not understand you."

"I must resign my office, sir," I said with trepidation.

"Resign? Wherefore? What have I said or done?"

"Let me beg your attention, sir, whilst I attempt to explain my motives, and to do justice
to myself and you. I mentioned the name of Miss Fairman."

"You did. Ha! Go on, sir."

"You cannot blame me, Mr. Fairman, if I tell you that, in common with every one whose happiness
it is to be acquainted with that lady, I have not been insensible to the qualities which render
her so worthy of your love, so deserving the esteem"--I stopped.

"I am listening, sir--proceed."

"I know not how to tell you, sir, in what language to express the growth of an attachment which
has taken root in this poor heart, increased and strengthened against every effort which I
have made to crush it."

"Sir!" uttered the incumbent in great amazement.

"Do not be angry, Mr. Fairman, until you have heard all. I confess that I have been imprudent
and rash, that I have foolishly permitted a passion to take possession of my heart, instead
of manfully resisting its inroads; but if I have been weak, do not believe that I have been
wicked."

"Speak plainly, Stukely. What am I to understand by this?"

"That I have dared, sir, to indulge a fond, a hopeless love, inspired by the gentlest and most
innocent of her sex--that I have striven, and striven, to forget and flee from it--that I have
failed--that I come to confess the fault, to ask your pardon, and depart."

"Tell me one thing," asked the incumbent quickly. "Have you communicated your sentiments to
Miss Fairman?"

"I have, sir."

"Is her illness connected with that declaration?--You do not answer. Stukely, I am deceived
in you. I mistrust and doubt you. You have murdered my poor child."

"Mr. Fairman, do not, I entreat"--

"Heaven have mercy upon me for my wild uncrucified temper. I will use no harsh terms. I retract
that expression, young man. I am sorry that I used it. Let me know what more you have to say."

The tears came to my eyes, and blinded them. I did not answer.

"Be seated, Stukely," continued the minister, in a kinder tone; "compose yourself. I am to
blame for using such a term. Forgive me for it--I did not mean all that it conveyed. But you
know how fragile and how delicate a plant is that. You should have thought of her and me before
you gratified a passion as wild as it is idle. Now, tell me every thing. Conceal and disguise
nothing. I will listen to your calmly, and I will be indulgent. The past is not to be recalled.
Aid me in the future, if you are generous and just."

I related all that had passed between Miss Fairman and myself--all that had taken place in
my own turbulent soul--the battlings of the will and judgment, the determination to overcome
temptation, and the sudden and violent yielding to it. Faithful to his command, I concealed
nothing, and, at the close of all, I signified my readiness, my wish, and my intention to depart.

"Forgive me, sir, at parting," said I, "and you shall hear no more of the disturber of your peace."

"I do not wish that, Stukely. I am indebted to you for the candour with which you have spoken,
and the proper view which you take of your position. I wish to hear of you, and to serve you--and
I will do it. I agree with you, that you must leave us now--yes, and at once; and, as you say,
without another interview. But I will not turn you into the world, lad, without some provision
for the present, and good hopes for the future. I owe you much. Yes--very much. When I consider
how differently you might behave, how very seriously you might interfere with my happiness"--as
Mr. Fairman spoke, he opened the drawer of a table, and drew a checque-book from it--"I feel
that you ought not to be a loser by your honesty. I do not offer you this as a reward for that
honesty--far from it--I would only indemnify you--and this is my duty."

Mr. Fairman placed a draft for a hundred pounds in my hand.

"Pardon me, sir," said I, replacing it on his table. "I can take no money. Millions could not
indemnify me for all that I resign. Judge charitably, and think kindly of me, sir--and I am
paid. Honour is priceless."

"Well, but when you get to London?"--

"I am not altogether friendless. My salary is yet untouched, and will supply my wants until
I find employment."

"Which you shall not be long without, believe me, Stukely, if I have power to get it you--and
I think I have. You will tell me where I may address my letters. I will not desert you. You
shall not repent this."

"I do not, sir; and I believe I never shall. I propose to leave the parsonage to-night, sir."

"No, to-morrow, we must have some talk. You need not see her. I could not let you go to-night.
You shall depart to-morrow, and I rely upon your good sense and honourable feelings to avoid
another meeting. It could only increase the mischief that has already taken place, and answer
no good purpose. You must be aware of this."

"I am, sir. You shall have no reason to complain."

"I am sure of it, Stukely. You had better see about your preparations. John will help you in
any way you wish. Make use of him. There must be many little things to do. There can be no
impropriety, Stukely, in your accepting the whole of your year's salary. You are entitled to
that. I am sorry to lose you--very--but there's no help for it. I will come to your room this
evening, and have some further conversation. Leave me now." The incumbent was evidently much
excited. Love for his child, and apprehension for her safety, were feelings that were, perhaps,
too prominent and apparent in the good and faithful minister of heaven; they betrayed him at
times into a self-forgetfulness, and a warmth of expression, of which he repented heartily
as soon as they occurred. Originally of a violent and wayward disposition, it had cost the
continual exercise and the prayers of a life, to acquire evenness of temper and gentleness
of deportment, neither of which, in truth, was easily, if ever disturbed, if not by the amiable
infirmity above alluded to. He was the best of men; but to the best, immunity from the natural
weakness of mortality is not to be vouchsafed.

Mr. Fairman was the last person whom I saw that night. He remained with me until I retired
to rest. He was the first person whom I saw on the following morning. I do not believe that
he did not rely upon the word which I had pledged to him. I did not suppose that he suspected
my resolution, but I an convinced that he was most restless and unhappy, from the moment that
I revealed my passion to him, until that which saw me safely deposited at the foot of the hill,
on my way to the village. So long as I remained in his house, he could only see danger for
his daughter; and with my disappearance he counted upon her recovery and peace.

The incumbent was himself my companion from the parsonage. The servant had already carried
my trunk to the inn. At the bottom of the hill, Mr. Fairman stopped and extended his hand.

"Fare-you-well, Stukely," said he, with emotion. "Once more, I am obliged to you. I will never
forget your conduct; you shall hear from me."

Since the conversation of the preceding day, the incumbent had not mentioned the name of his
daughter. I had not spoken of her. I felt it impossible to part without a word.

"What did Doctor Mayhew say?" I asked.

"She is a little better, and will be soon quite well, we trust."

"That is good news. Is she composed?"

"Yes--she is better."

"One question more, sir. Does she know of my departure?"

"She does not--but she will, of course."

"Do not speak unkindly of me to her, sir. I should be sorry if she thought ill"--

"She will respect you, Stukely, for the part which you have acted. She must do so. You will
respect yourself."

I had nothing more to say, I returned his warm pressure, and bade him farewell.

"God bless you, lad, and prosper you! We may meet again in a happier season; but if we do not,
receive a father's thanks and gratitude. You have behaved nobly. I feel it--believe me."

Manly and generous tears rushed to the eyes of my venerable friend, and he could not speak.
Once more he grasped my hand fervently, and in the saddest silence that I have ever known we
separated.

There was gloom around my heart, which the bright sun in heaven, that gladdened all the land,
could not penetrate or disperse; but it gave way before a touch of true affection, which came
to me as a last memorial of the beloved scene on which I lingered.

I had hardly parted from the minister, before I perceived walking before me, at the distance
of a few yards, the youngest of the lads who had been my pupils. At the request of the minister,
I had neither taken leave of them nor informed any one of my departure. The lad whom I now
saw was a fine spirited boy, who had strongly attached himself to me, and shown great aptitude,
as well as deep desire, for knowledge. He knew very little when I came to him, but great pains
had enabled him to advance rapidly. The interest which he manifested, called forth in me a
corresponding disposition to assist him; and the grateful boy, altogether overlooking his own
exertions, had over and over again expressed himself in the warmest terms of thankfulness for
my instruction, to which he insisted he owed all that he had acquired. He was in his eleventh
year, and his heart was as kind and generous as his intellect was vigorous and clear. I came
up to him, and found him plucking the wild-flowers from the grass as he wandered slowly along.
I looked at him as I passed, and found him weeping.

"Alfred!" I exclaimed, "What do you here so early?"

The boy burst into a fresh flow of tears, and threw himself passionately into my arms. He sobbed
piteously, and at length said--

"Do not go, sir--do not leave me! You have been so kind to me. Pray, stop."

"What is the matter Alfred?"

"John has told me you are going, sir. He has just taken your box down. Oh, Mr. Stukely, stay
for my sake! I won't give you so much trouble as I used to do. I'll learn my lessons better--but
don't go, pray, sir."

"You will have another teacher, Alfred, who will become as good a friend as I am. I cannot
stay. Return to the parsonage--there's a dear boy."

"Oh, if you must go, let me walk with you a little, sir! Let me take your hand. I shall be
back in time for breakfast--pray, don't refuse me that, sir?"

I complied with his request. He grasped my palm in both his hands, and held it there, as though
he would not part with it again. He gave me the flowers which he had gathered, and begged me
to keep them for his sake. He repeated every kind thing which I had done for him, not one of
which he would forget, and all the names and dates which he had got by heart, to please his
tutor. He told me that it would make him wretched, "to get up to-morrow, and remember that
I was gone;" and that he loved me better than any body, for no one had been so indulgent, and
had taken such pains to make him a good boy. Before we reached the village, his volubility
had changed the tears to smiles. As we reached it, John appeared on his return homeward. I
gave the boy into his charge, and the cloud lowered again, and the shower fell heavier than
ever. I turned at the point at which the hills became shut out, and there stood the boy fastened
to the spot at which I had left him.

At the door of the inn, I was surprised to find my luggage in the custody of Dr. Mayhew's gardener.
As soon as he perceived me, he advanced a few steps with the box, and placed note in my hand.
It was addressed to me at the parsonage, and politely requested me to wait upon the physician
at my earliest convenience. No mention was made of the object of my visit, or of the doctor's
knowledge of my altered state. The document was as short as it might be, and as courteous.
Having read it, I turned to the gardener, or to where he had stood a moment before, with the
view of questioning that gentleman; but to my great astonishment, I perceived him about a hundred
yards before me, walking as fast as his load permitted him towards his master's residence.
I called loudly after him, but my voice only acted as a spur, and increased his pace. My natural
impulse was to follow him, and I obeyed it.

Dr. Mayhew received me with a very cunning smile and a facetious observation.

"Well, Master Stukely, this hot weather has been playing the deuce with us all. Only think
of little puss being attacked with your complaint, the very day you were here suffering so
much from it, and my getting a touch myself."

I smiled.

"Yes, sir, it is very easy to laugh at the troubles of other men, but I can tell you this is
a very disagreeable epidemic. Severe times these for maids and bachelors. I shall settle in
life now, sooner than I intended. I have fallen in love with puss my self."

I did not smile.

"To be sure, I am old enough to be her father, but so much the better for her. No man should
marry till fifty. Your young fellows of twenty don't know their own mind--don't understand
what love means--all blaze and flash, blue fire and sky-rocket--out in a minute. Eh, what do
you say, Stukely?"

"Are you aware, sir, that I have left the parsonage?"

"To be sure I am; and a pretty kettle of fish you have made of it. Instead of treating love
as a quiet and respectable undertaking, as I mean to treat it--instead of simmering your love
down to a gentlemanly respect and esteem, as I mean to simmer it--and waiting patiently for
the natural consequences of things, as I mean to wait--you must, like a boy as you are, have
it all out in a minute, set the whole house by the ears, and throw yourself out of it without
rhyme or reason, or profit to any body. Now, sit down, and tell me what you mean to do with
yourself?"

"I intend to go to London, sir."

"Does your father live there?"

"I have no father, sir."

"Well--your mother?"

"She is dead, too. I have one friend there--I shall go to him until I find occupation."

"You naughty boy! How I should like to whip you! What right had you to give away so good a
chance as you have had? You have committed a sin, sir--yes, you may look--you have, and a very
grievous one. I speak as I think. You have been flying in the face of Providence, and doing
worse than hiding the talent which was bestowed upon you for improvement. Do you think I should
have behaved so at your age? Do you think any man in the last generation out of a madhouse
would have done it? Here's your march of education!"

I bowed to Doctor Mayhew, and wished him good-morning.

"No, thank you, sir," answered the physician, "if I didn't mean to say a little more to you,
I shouldn't have spoken so much already. We must talk these matters over quietly. You may as
well stay a few days with your friend in the country as run off directly to the gentleman in
London. Besides, now I have made my mind up so suddenly to get married, I don't know soon I
may be called upon to undergo the operation--I beg the lady's pardon--the awful ceremony. I
shall want a bride's-man, and you wouldn't make a bad one by any means."

The physician rang the bell, and Williams the butler--a personage in black, short and stout,
and exceedingly well fed, as his sleek face showed--entered the apartment.

"Will you see, Williams, that Mr. Stukely's portmanteau is taken to his room--bed quite aired--sheets
all right, eh?"

"Both baked, sir," replied Williams with a deferential but expressive smile, which became his
face remarkably well.

"Then let us have lunch, Williams, and a bottle of the sherry?"

A look accompanied the request, which was not lost upon the butler. He made a profound obeisance,
and retired. At lunch the doctor continued his theme, and represented my conduct as most blameable
and improper. He insisted that I ought to be severely punished, and made to feel that a boy
is not to indulge every foolish feeling that rises, just as he thinks proper, but, like an
inconsistent judge, he concluded the whole of a very powerful and angry summing up, by pronouncing
upon me the verdict of an acquittal--inasmuch as he told me to make myself as comfortable as
I could in his house, and to enjoy myself thoroughly in it for the next fortnight to come,
at the very least. It may have been that, in considering my faults as those of the degenerate
age in which I lived--which age, however, be it known, lived afterwards to recover its character,
and to be held up as a model of propriety and virtue to the succeeding generation--the merciful
doctor was willing to merge my chastisement in that which he bestowed daily upon the unfortunate
object of his contempt and pity, or possibly he desired to inflict no punishment at all, but
simply to perform a duty incumbent upon his years and station. Be this as it may, certain it
is that with the luncheon ended all upbraiding and rebuke, and commenced an unreservedness
of intercourse--the basis of a generous friendship, which increased and strengthened day by
day, and ended only with the noble-hearted doctor's life--nor then in its effects upon my character
and fortune.

It was on the night of the day on which I had arrived, that Doctor Mayhew and I were sitting
in his sanctum; composedly and happily as men sit whom care has given over for a moment to
the profound and stilly influences of the home and hearth. One topic of conversation had given
place easily to another, and there seemed at length little to be said on any subject whatever,
when the case of the idiot, which my own troubles had temporarily dismissed from my mind, suddenly
occurred to me, and afforded us motive for the prolongation of a discourse, which neither seemed
desirous to bring to a close.

"What have you done with the poor fellow?" I enquired.

"Nothing," replied the physician. "We have fed him well, and his food has done him good. He
is a hundred per cent better than when he came; but he is still surly and tongue-tied. He says
nothing. He is not known in the neighbourhood. I have directed hand-bills to be circulated,
and placards to be posted in the villages. If he is not owned within a week, he must be given
to the parish-officers. I can't help thinking that he is a runaway lunatic, and a gentleman
by birth. Did you notice his delicate white hand, that diamond ring, and the picture they found
tied round his neck?"

"What picture, sir?"

"Did I not tell you of it? The portrait of a lovely female--an old attachment, I suppose, that
turned his brain, although I fancy sometimes that it is his mother or sister, for there is
certainly a resemblance to himself in it. The picture is set in gold. When Robin first discovered
it, the agony of the stricken wretch was most deplorable. He was afraid that the man would
remove it, and he screamed and implored like a true maniac. When he found that he might keep
it, he evinced the maddest pleasure, and beckoned his keeper to notice and admire it. He pointed
to the eyes, and then groaned and wept himself; until Robin was frightened out of his wits,
and was on the point of throwing up his office altogether."

