Here, as elsewhere, Delsarte brought to bear his personality, his stamp, his breadth of comprehension.

I once asked him what some called Dominations might represent, in the celestial classification?
He replied: "If any one or anything forces itself upon our mind, takes active possession of
our soul, do we not feel that we are under a certain domination?"

He gave me several other explanations touching the angelic hierarchy. I considered them very
poetic, very ingenious--but were they also orthodox? I am not competent to judge.

It was impossible to say at the first glance, how the influence of this theosophy made itself
felt in this sensitive character, full as it was of surprises. Delsarte was born good, generous,
above the petty tendencies which deform and degrade the human type. On these diverse points,
religious faith could scarcely show its effect; but he also declared himself to be irritable
and violent--he confessed to a dangerous fickleness--still, he would readily have slandered
himself in the interests of his faith.

Whatever the cause of this acquired serenity, Delsarte did not always refuse to satisfy his
native impulses. I have already alluded to cases in which these returns to impetuous vivacity
occurred, and how he rose above these relapses. Whether his peaceful spirit arose from religious
feeling, or whether it was the result of moral strength, it breathed the spirit of the gospel;
but it must also be confessed that our artist mingled with it much worldly grace. What matters
it? Uncertainty has no inconveniences in such a matter.

It was particularly on the occasion of those sudden fits of passion to which the human conscience
does not always attach due weight, that Delsarte laid great stress upon supernatural intervention.

Oh! what would he have done without that powerful aid, with his lively sensibilities--with
his too loving heart?

I have no opinion to offer in regard to the shield which efficacious grace and the palladium
of the faith may form for dangerous tendencies; for Catholics, that is a matter for the casuist
or the confessor to decide; but, as far as Delsarte is concerned, had he beaten down Satan
in a way to rouse the jealousy of St. Michael, had he made the heathen Socrates give precedence
to him in patience, wisdom and firmness, I should regard that victory as the triumph of the
sacred principles of the eternal morality, of that which sums up, in a single group, all the
supreme precepts of all religions and all philosophies, rather than as a result of external
practices.

It is by placing myself at this culminating point, that I have succeeded in explaining to my
own satisfaction the true stimulus of the artist-thinker, in spite of all appearances and all
contradictions; and everything leads me to believe that the elevation of his mind and the inspiration
of the art which he taught and practiced, would have sufficed, in equal proportion with his
faith, "to deliver him from evil."

How could a man glide into the lower walks of life, whose mission it was to set forth the types
of moral beauty by opposing them, to use his phrase, "to the hideousnesses of vice?"

Now, talent and faith meet face to face. We are to consider to what extent the one was dependent
upon the other; and whether, in reality, the artist whom so many voices proclaimed "incomparable"
owed his vast superiority to acts of religious devotion, to his adhesion to the dogmas of the
church.

It is not arbitrarily that a transcendent intellect pointed out a difference between religion
and religions: every mind devoted to philosophy must needs reach this distinction.

I shall keep strictly within the limits of that which concerns art, in a question so vast and
of such great importance.

Religion is that need which all generations of men have felt for establishing a relationship
between man and the supreme power or powers whence man supposes he proceeded. To some it is
an outburst of gratitude and homage; to others, an instinct of terror which makes them fall
prostrate before an unknown being upon whom they feel themselves dependent, although they cannot
know him, still less define him.

Religions are all which men have established in answer to those aspirations of the conscience,
to satisfy that intuition which forces itself upon our mind so long as sophistry has not warped
it. It follows from this, that religions vary, are changed, and may be falsified until the
primitive meaning is lost. But whatever may be the faith and the rites of religions--whether
fanaticism disfigure them or fetichism make a caricature of them, whether politicians use them
as an ally, or the traces of the apostolate fade beneath the materialism of speculation,--there
will always remain at the bottom, religion: that is, the thought which keeps such or such a
society alive for a variable time, and which, in periods of transition, seeks refuge in human
consciences awaiting a fresh social upward flight.

Well! it was not the external part of his belief which inspired Delsarte, when--to use the
expression of the poet Reboul--"he showed himself like unto a god!" It was not the long rosary
with its large beads which often dangled at his side, that gave him the secret of heart-tortures
and soul-aspirations! The charcoal-burner's faith would never have taught him that captivating
grace, that supreme elegance of gesture and attitude, which made him matchless. Nor did theology
and dogma teach him the moving effects which made people declare that he performed miracles,
and led several writers (Henry de Riancey, Hervet) to say: "That man is not an artist, he is
art itself!" And Fiorentino, a critic usually severe and exacting, wrote: "This master's sentiment
is so true, his style so lofty, his passion so profound, that there is nothing in art so beautiful
or so perfect!"

Profound passion, lofty style, art itself, these are not learned from any catechism. That chosen
organism bore within its own breast the fountains of beauty. An artist, he derived thence an
inward illumination, and, as it were, a clear vision of the Ideal. If religion was blended
with it, it was that which speaks directly to the heart of all beings endowed with poetry,
to those who are capable of vowing their love to the worship of sublime things.

What I have just said will become more comprehensible if I apply to Delsarte those more especially
Christian words: The spirit and the letter.

Yes, in him there was the spiritual man and the literal man; and if either compromised the
other, it was not in the eyes of persons who attended, regularly enough to understand them,
the lectures and lessons of the brilliant professor.

This I have already said, and I shall dwell upon this point, hoping to establish some harmony
between those who taxed Delsarte with madness on account of his positivism in the matter of
faith, and those who strove to connect with his devotional habits everything exceptional which
that great figure realized in his passage through this world.

In fact, it is only by separating the Delsarte of the spirit from him of the letter, that we
can form any true idea of him.

And the letter, once again--was it not art and poetry that made worship so dear to him? The
shadowy light of the churches, the stern majesty of the vaulted roof, contrasting with the
radiant circle of light within which reposed the sacred wafer,--all this pomp, of heathen origin,
warmed for him the severe simplicity and cold austerity of Christian sentiment; the chants
and prayers uttered in common also stimulated the fervid impulses of his heart.

The spirit of proselytism took possession of him later in life. It was controversy under a
new form, more attractive and more distracting. There was always some soul within reach to
be won to the faith; some rebellious spirit to bend to the yoke of the official church,--proceeding,
under due observance of ostensible forms, from the letter! Neophytes were very ready to listen.
After all, it pledged them to nothing, and they talked of other things often enough to prevent
the conversation from becoming too much of a sermon. Then, certain favors--all of a spiritual
nature--were attached to this situation: a place nearer the master during lectures, a more
affectionate greeting, a sweeter smile.

These attempts more than once resulted in disappointment to Delsarte. I will not enumerate
them all. Often he was heard with increasing interest, it seemed as if resistance must yield,
and that he might speedily plant his flag "in the salutary waters of grace," but at that very
moment his opponent would become more refractory and more stubborn than ever.

Once, he had great hopes. Several young people seemed decided to enter into the paths of virtue.
The master was radiant. "Take heed," said skeptic prudence, "perhaps it is only a means of
stimulating your zeal, of profiting better by your disinterestedness."

He soon acknowledged the truth of these predictions; he confessed it in his moments of candor.

One of these feigned converts, especially, scandalized him. The story deserves repetition:

The church of the Petits-Pères had ordered the wax figure of a freshly canonized saint, from
Rome. Delsarte mentioned it to the school, and several pupils went to see it.

"Ah, sir!" cried young D. on his return, "now, indeed, I am a Catholic! How lovely she is,
how fresh and fair after lying underground so long!"

"Unhappy fellow!" said the disappointed artist, "he takes the image for the reality, and the
beauty of a waxen St. Philomena has converted him."

The young man had heard that the preservation of the flesh, after a hundred years' burial,
counted for much in canonization, if it did not suffice to justify it; and as the place where
they had deposited the sacred image was dark, D. had taken for life itself the pink and white
complexion common to such figures before time has yellowed them.

Delsarte ended by being amused at his credulity; he laughed readily and was not fond of sulking.
Nor must we forget that this preëminent tragedian was a perfect comedian, and that this fact
entitled him to true enjoyment of the humorous side of life. Have I not somewhere read: "Beware
of those who never laugh!"

Delsarte's piety--I speak of that of the letter--was seldom morose. It did not forbid juvenile
caprices; it overlooked venial sins.

One Sunday he took his scholars to Nanterre, some to perform, others to hear, a mass of his
own composition. A few friends joined the party. The mass over, they wandered into the country
in groups. Some walked; some sat upon the grassy turf. The air was pleasant, the conversation
animated; time passed quickly.

Suddenly the vesper bell was heard. Some one drew Delsarte's attention to it--not without a
tiny grain of malice.

"Master, what a pity--you must leave us."

He made no answer.

When the second summons sounded, the same voice continued:

"There's no help for it; for us poor sinners, it's no matter! But you, master, you cannot miss
the mass!"

He put his hand to his head and considered.

"Bah!" he cried boldly, "I'll send my children."

Let me give another trait in illustration of the nature which from time to time pierced through
and rent the flimsy fabric of his opinions. This anecdote is a political one.

Despite the precedent of an ultra democratic grandfather, and all his plebeian tendencies as
a philanthropist and a Christian, his Catholic friends had inclined him toward monarchical
ideas--although he never actually sided with the militant portion of the party.

On one occasion, it happened that the two wings of this politico-religious fusion disagreed.
As at Nanterre, Delsarte acted independently, and on this occasion politics were the victim.
It fell out as follows:

A claimant of the throne of France, still young, finding himself in the Eternal City, had not,
to all appearance, fulfilled his duties to the Vatican promptly.

The first time that Delsarte encountered certain of those zealous legitimists, who are said
to be "more royalist than the king," he launched this apostrophe at their heads:

"I hear that your young man was in no haste to pay his respects to His Holiness."

Thus, always free--even when he seemed to have forged chains for himself--he obeyed his impulse
without counting the cost. Never mind! This childish outburst must have gladdened the manes
of the ancestor who connected the syllables in the patronymic name of Delsarte!

I hope I shall not forget, as my pen moves along, any of these memories, insignificant to many
minds, no doubt, but serving to distinguish this figure from the vast mass of creation. If,
among my readers, some may say "pass on," others will enjoy these trifles, and will thank me
for writing them.

Thus, Delsarte was always pleased to think he bore the name of François in memory of Francis
of Assisi--not the Spaniard whom we know, but the great saint of the twelfth century; he who
"appeased quarrels, settled differences, taught slaves and common men,--the poor man who was
good to the poor."

"The fish, the rabbits and the hares," the legend says, "placed themselves in this fortunate
man's hands." * * * * The birds were silent or sang at his command. "Be silent," said the saint
to the swallows, "'tis my turn to talk now." And again: "My brothers, the birds, you have great
cause to praise your Creator, who covered you with such fine feathers and gave you wings to
fly through the clear, broad fields of air."

One need not be very devout to be attracted by such graceful simplicity.

Delsarte went farther. Whether he accepted this magnetic attraction as true or whether he regarded
it as purely symbolic--for this kind of miracle is not dependent on faith,--he considered the
monk of Assisi as a lover of nature, whose heart was big enough to love everything that lives,
to suffer with all that suffers. He strove to comprehend him by placing him upon a pinnacle,
well aware that the sublime often lurks between the trifling.

It was on such occasions that the man of intellect revived to ennoble and illumine everything.
If, despite his magnificent rendering of them, Delsarte never called legendary fictions in
question, let us not refuse him that privilege. In such cases the poetry became his accomplice,
and--"Every poet is the toy of the gods," as Béranger says, a simple song-writer, as Delsarte
was a simple singer.

There was in him whom Kreutzer called "the apostle of the grand dramatic style," a desire,
I will not say for realism, but for realization, for action. Thus he once had a fancy to join
the semi-clerical society of the third order; it was a way of keeping himself in practice,
since there were various prescriptions, observances and interdictions attached to the office.
One must repeat certain prayers every day, and submit to a certain severity of costume. No
precious metal, not even a thread of gold or silver must be seen about one. In the first moments
of fervor, a beautiful green velvet cap, beautifully embroidered in gold--the loving gift of
some pupil or admirer,--was interdicted, that is to say, was shut up in a closet or reduced
to the condition of a mere piece of bric-à-brac. Luckily, the association did not require eternal
vows, and I think I saw the pretty article restored to its proper use later on.

Another attempt--and this was his own creation--tempted this inquiring mind; he wished to pay
especial homage, under some novel form, to the Holy Trinity. The adepts were to be called the
Trinitarians. In the founder's mind, this starting-point was to be the seed for a sort of confraternity
with the mark of true friendship and unity of faith.

This dream was never realized, apparently, for it seems that the association could never number
more than three members at a time: so that it was in number only that it justified its title.
Delsarte was very fond of these few adherents. "The Trinitarians--where are the Trinitarians?"
was sometimes the cry at a lecture. It was the voice of the master who had reserved a seat
of honor for each of them. This is all I ever knew about this society, and I have reason to
think that it never got beyond a few talks among the members upon the subject which united them.

It is not without reluctance that I expose his weaknesses; but timid as the steps must ever
be which are taken upon historic ground, we must walk in daylight. No one, moreover, could
regard this effervescence of a sentiment noble in its source, as a want of intellectual liberty.
It was the affectionate side of his nature which at moments dimmed his reason, but never went
so far as to put out its light. I need not attempt to defend on this point one, of whom Auguste
Luchet wrote:

"It is by his soul and his science that he lifts you, transports you, strikes you, shatters
you with terror, anguish and love!"

And Pierre Zaccone says:

"He is an artist, apart, exceptional, perhaps unique! with what finished art, what talent,
what GENIUS, he uses the resources of his voice!"

That which best atoned in Delsarte for the grain of fanaticism with which he was reproached,
was the tolerance which prevailed in every controversy, in every dissension. If he sometimes
blamed free thought, he never showed ill will to free-thinkers. In the spirit of the gospel--so
different from the spirit of the devout party--he was "all things to all men." He was on a
very friendly footing with a priest whom, by his logic and his sincerity, he had prevailed
upon to forsake the ecclesiastical calling.

In our discussions, which dealt with secondary subjects of various forms of belief--for I never
denied God, or the soul and its immortality, or the freedom of the will which is the honor
of the human race, or the power of charity, provided it become social and fraternal, instead
of merely alms-giving as it has been,--in these debates, sometimes rather lively, I would end
by saying to him: "You know that I love and seek truth; very well! if God wished me to join
the ranks in which you serve, he would certainly give me a sign; but so long as I do not receive
His summons, what have I to do with it?"

I spoke his own language, and he yielded to my reasoning. "Come," he would say, "I prefer your
frankness to the pretenses of feigned piety;" and he would add sorrowfully: "Alas! I often
encounter them!" So we always ended by agreeing, and this truce lasted--until our next meeting.

The words which I have just quoted prove that if Delsarte clung to the Catholic dogmas, he
was particularly touched by the sincere piety and active charity of simple, evangelic hearts.
I may give yet another proof of this.

To satisfy his sympathies as much as to rescue his clan, when attacked, he would always quote
a father confessor, one Father Pricette--this name should be remembered in the present age--who,
during the icy nights of December, slept in an arm-chair, because he had given his last mattress
to some one poorer than himself.

Chapter XIII.

Delsarte's Friends.

Friendly relations--although disputes often arose--were established toward 1840 between Delsarte
and Raymond Brucker (known to literature as Michel Raymond). Fortunately in spite of the influence
of the author of "Mensonge," Delsarte's superior rank always prevailed in this intimacy.

Michel Raymond published several novels in the first half of this century. Later on, he took
his place in the ranks of that militia of Neo-Catholics, the fruit of the Restoration. (I do
not know whether I am justified in giving the name of Neo-Catholic to Brucker; perhaps, on
the contrary, his dreams were all of the primitive church. But, in spite of his Jewish crudities,
I suppose he would never have joined the followers of Father Loyson.) His keen, sharp and caustic
spirit did not forsake him when he changed his principles; and never did the Christ--whose
symbol is a lamb without a stain--have a sterner or more warlike zealot.

In appearance, Brucker had somewhat the look of a Mephistopheles--a demon then very much in
vogue,--especially when he laughed, his laughter being full of sardonic reserves. If Delsarte's
mode of proselyting was almost always gentle, affectionate, adapted to the spirit he aspired
to conquer, that of Raymond Brucker had an aggressive fashion; he became brutal and cynical
when discussion waxed warm.

Once, in reply to one of his vehement attacks against the age, in which he used very unparliamentary
expressions, he drew upon himself the following answer from a woman: "But, sir, I should think
that in the ardor of your recent convictions, your first act of faith should have been to make
an auto-da-fé of all the books signed Michel Raymond."

I repeat, this writer, although of undoubted intellectual merit, could not annul Delsarte's
native tendencies; he could never have led Delsarte into any camp which the latter had not
already decided to join; but when they met on common ground, he influenced, excited and sometimes
threw a shadow over him.

When they had fought together against the nearest rebel, long and lively discussions would
often arise between them, but they always agreed in the end: the artist's good-nature so willed it.

If dissension continued, if the fiery friend had given cause for reproach, Delsarte merely
said: "Poor Brucker!" But how much that brief phrase could be made to mean in the mouth of
a man who taught an actor to say, "I hate you!" by uttering the words, "I love you," and who
could ring as many changes on one sentence as the thought, the feeling, the occasion, could
possibly require.

Do not suppose, however, that Delsarte abused his power. Contrary to many actors who carry
their theatrical habits into their private life, he aimed at the most perfect simplicity outside
of the rôles which he interpreted. "I make myself as simple as possible," he would say, "to
avoid all suspicion of posing." But still he could not entirely rid himself, in conversation,
of those inflections which illuminate words and are the genuine manifestation of the inner meaning.

Be this as it may, the relation between our two converts assumed the proportions of friendship,
doubtless in virtue of the mysterious law which makes contrast attractive.

Hegel says: "The identical and the non-identical are identical;" and this proposition passes
for nonsense. Perhaps if he had said: "May become identical," it would be understood that he
meant to speak, in general, of that reconciliation of contraries which united the calm genius
of Delsarte and the bristling, prickly spirit of Raymond Brucker.

One motive particularly contributed to the union; Brucker was unfortunate in a worldly sense.
Delsarte, improvident for the future and scorning money, still had, during the best years of
his professorship, a relatively comfortable home. He loved to have his friend take advantage
of it. Large rooms, well warmed in winter, a simple table, but one which lacked no essential
article, were of no small importance to one whose scanty household had naught but sorrow and
privation to offer.

How many evenings they spent together in dissertations which often ended in nothing--and how
often the dawn surprised them before they were weary!

For Brucker it was a refuge, but for Delsarte, what a waste of time and strength taken from
his real work! That wasted time might have sufficed to fix and produce certain special points
in his method. Then, too, his health demanded greater care.

Take it for all in all, this intimacy was perhaps more harmful than helpful to Delsarte. Yet
I have been told that Raymond Brucker urged the innovator to elaborate his discovery, and often
reproached him with his negligence in pecuniary matters. It was he who said: "François Delsarte's
system is an orthopedic machine to straighten crippled intellects."

I have also heard in favor of Raymond Brucker, that that mind so full of bitterness, that inquisitor
in partibus, was most tender toward a child in his family, and that he bore his poverty bravely.
I desire to note these eulogies side by side with the less favorable reflections which I considered
it my duty to write down here. I recall a short anecdote which will serve to close the Brucker
story.

As we have said, they were seldom parted. One day Delsarte had agreed to dine with the family
of a pupil. As he was on his way thither, he met his inseparable friend. From that moment his
only thought was to excuse himself from the dinner; but his hosts were reluctant to give up
such a guest; they insisted"--they were offended.

"Pardon me," said Delsarte; "I really cannot stay! I had forgotten that Brucker was to dine
with me."

"But that can be arranged! M. Brucker can join us. Suppose we send and ask him?"

"You need not," replied the master; "if you are willing, I will call him; he is waiting for
me below at the corner."

They had acted as children do, when one says to the other on leaving school:

"Wait a minute for me, I'll ask mamma if you can come and dine with us."

Brucker, who after all knew how to be agreeable when he chose, took his place at the table,
and all went well.

This proves yet once again the extent to which Delsarte possessed that charming simplicity
so well suited to all distinction.

In the dissertations upon religious subjects incessantly renewed about Delsarte, it was sometimes
declared that "great sinners were surer of salvation than the most perfect unbelievers in the
world."

A young man, who doubtless felt himself to be in the first category, once said to the master:

"My friend, the good God has been too kind to me! I disobey him, I offend against his laws....
I repent, and he accepts my prayer! I relapse into sin--and he forgives me! Decidedly, the
good God is a very poltroon!"

This seems to exceed the unrestrained ease and confidence usual toward an earthly father; but
we must not forget that the inflection modifies the meaning of a phrase, and that poltroon
may mean adorable.

This penitent, now famous, carried his provocation of the inexhaustible goodness very far.
At one time in his life he tried to blow out his brains! By a mere chance--he probably said,
by a miracle,--the wound was not mortal; but he always retained the accusing scar. I never
knew whether this unpleasant adventure preceded or followed Mr. L.'s conversion, or whether
it was coincident with one of the relapses of which that repentant sinner accused himself.

Another very religious friend was no less fragile in the observance of his firm vow. Becoming
a widower, he swore eternal fidelity to the "departed angel." Soon after, he was seen with
another wife on his arm!

"And your angel?" whispered a sceptic in his ear.

"Oh, my friend!" was the reply, "this one is an archangel."

Another figure haunted Delsarte and afforded yet another proof of his tolerance. The Italian,
C----, shared neither his political ideas nor his religious beliefs; he was one of those refugees
whom the defeats of the Carbonari have cast upon our soil, and whose necessities France--does
our neighbor remember this?--for years supplied, as if they were her own children. However,
she could offer them but a precarious living.

Signer C., to give some charm to his wretched existence, desired to add to his scanty budget
a strong dose of hope and intellectual enjoyment: hope in--what came later--the independence
and unity of Italy. By way of diversion, this stranger gratified himself by indulging in a
whim; he had dreams of a panacea, a plant whose complex virtues should combat all the evils
which fall to the lot of poor humanity; but this marvel must be sought in America. And how
was he to get there, when he could barely scrape together the necessary five cents to ride
in an omnibus! The Isabellas of our day do not build ships for every new Columbus who desires
to endow the world with some wonderful treasure trove! And yet this man was not mad; he was
one of those who prove how many insane ideas a brain may cherish, without being entitled to
a cell in Bedlam or Charenton.

While awaiting the realization of his golden dreams, poor C. spent his time in perpetual adoration
of the Talma of Music--for so Théophile Gautier styled Delsarte; he never missed a lecture;
he took part in the talks which lengthened out the evening when the parlor was at last cleared
of superfluous guests.

Among his many manias--how many people have this one in common with him!--the Italian cherished
the idea that he was of exceptional ability, and that in more than one direction. He proclaimed
that Delsarte went far beyond everything that he knew--equal to all that could be imagined
or desired in regard to art--but as for himself, C., was he not from a land where art is hereditary,
where it is breathed in at every pore, from birth? And more than the mass of his countrymen,
did he not feel the volcanic heat of the sacred fire burning within him?

One evening, he made a bold venture. He had prepared a tirade written by some Italian poet.
All that I remember of it is that it began with the words: "Trema--Trema!" [Tremble--Tremble!]

The impromptu tragedian recited several lines in a declamatory tone accompanied by gestures
to match. Delsarte listened without a sign of praise or blame. Then he rose, struck an attitude
appropriate to the text, but perfectly natural, and, in his quiet way, said:

"Might not you as well give it in this key?" Then, in a voice of repressed harshness, his gestures
subdued but expressive of hatred, he repeated the two words: "Trema--Trema!"

The listeners shuddered. Delsarte had produced one of those effects which can never be forgotten.
The smouldering ashes did not burn long; four syllables were enough to extinguish the flame.

Following, not the chronological order, but that of circumstances and incidents calculated
to throw light on my subject, I must once more retrace the course of years.

C.'s persistency went on before and after 1848. During the second period, all minds were greatly
agitated by the state of politics. C., in spite of his undoubted liberalism--he spent a great
part of his leisure in making democratic constitutions--thought, like every other claimant,
that he had duties to perform; and that he might as well, to facilitate his task, make an ally
of the Emperor, without scruple; but access to royalty was no less impossible than landing
on the American shore where his panacea grew. He hit upon the following plan:

A number of ladies were to go in a body and implore Napoleon III to pardon certain exiles:
for the same calamities always follow civil war, and there are always women ready to beg for
justice or mercy.

C., who knew their purpose, said to one of the petitioners: "How are you going to make the
Emperor understand that I am the only man capable of saving the situation?"

The petition was not presented; and the world remains to be saved!

