'Yes. He was quite sensible, and very patient, and that old Charity Ledbury is a capital old
woman. She and Jem are delighted to have him, and will nurse him excellently. How are all the
others? Has that poor man come to his senses?'

'Yes. I saw him safe in bed at old Robinson's. The captain is at the Browns'.'

'I wonder what time of day it is?'

'Past eight. Ah! there is the bell beginning. I was thinking of going to tell Master Ray we
are not too much excited to remember church-going this morning; but I am glad he has found
it out only ten minutes too late. I must make haste. Good-bye!'

'May not I come, too, or am I too strange a figure?' said Guy, looking at his dress, thrown
on in haste, and saturated with sea-water.

'May you?' said Mr. Ashford, smiling. 'Is it wise, with all your wet things?'

'I am not given to colds,' answered Guy, and they walked on quickly for some minutes; after
which he said, in a low voice and hurried manner,--'would you make some mention of it in the
Thanksgiving?'

'Of course I will' said Mr. Ashford, with much emotion. 'The danger must have been great.'

'It was,' said Guy, as if the strong feeling would show itself. 'It was most merciful. That
little boat felt like a toy at the will of the winds and waves, till one recollected who held
the storm in His hand.'

He spoke very simply, as if he could not help it, with his eye fixed on the clear eastern sky,
and with a tone of grave awe and thankfulness which greatly struck Mr. Ashford, from the complete
absence of self-consciousness, or from any attempt either to magnify or depreciate his sense
of the danger.

'You thought the storm a more dangerous time than your expedition on the rock?'

'It was not. The fishermen, who were used to such things, did not think much of it; but I am
glad to have been out on such a night, if only for the magnificent sensation it gives to realize
one's own powerlessness and His might. As for the rock, there was something to do to look to
one's footing, and cling on; no time to think.'

'It was a desperate thing!'

'Not so bad as it looked. One step at a time is all one wants, you know, and that there always
was. But what a fine fellow Ben Robinson is! He behaved like a regular hero--it was the thorough
contempt and love of danger one reads of. There must be a great deal of good in him, if one
only knew how to get hold of it.'

'Look there!' was Mr. Ashford's answer, as he turned his head at the church wicket; and, at
a short distance behind, Guy saw Ben himself walking up the path, with his thankful, happy
father, a sight that had not been seen for months, nay, for years.

'Ay,' he said, 'such a night as this, and such a good old man as the father, could not fail
to bring out all the good in a man.'

'Yes,' thought Mr. Ashford, 'such a night, under such a leader! The sight of so much courage
based on that foundation is what may best touch and save that man.'

After church, Guy walked fast away; Mr. Ashford went home, made a long breakfast, having the
whole story to tell, and was on to the scene of action again, where he found the master, quite
restored, and was presently joined by Markham. Of Sir Guy, there was no news, except that Jem
Ledbury said he had looked in after church to know how the cabin boy was going on, and the
master, understanding that he had been the leader in the rescue, was very anxious to thank
him, and walked up to the house with Markham and Mr. Ashford.

Markham conducted them straight to the library, the door of which was open. He crossed the
room, smiled, and made a sign to Mr. Ashford, who looked in some surprise and amusement. It
has been already said that the room was so spacious that the inhabited part looked like a little
encampment by the fire, though the round table was large, and the green leather sofa and arm
chair were cumbrous.

However, old Sir Guy's arm-chair was never used by his grandson; Markham might sit there, and
Bustle did sometimes, but Guy always used one of the unpretending, unluxurious chairs, which
were the staple of the room. This, however, was vacant, and on the table before it stood the
remains of breakfast, a loaf reduced to half its dimensions, an empty plate and coffee-cup.
The fire was burnt down to a single log, and on the sofa, on all the various books with which
it was strewed, lay Guy, in anything but a comfortable position, his head on a great dictionary,
fairly overcome with sleep, his very thick, black eyelashes resting on his fresh, bright cheek,
and the relaxation of the grave expression of his features making him look even younger than
he really was. He was so sound asleep that it was not till some movement of Markham's that
he awoke, and started up, exclaiming,--

'What a horrid shame! I am very sorry!'

'Sorry! what for?' said Markham. 'I am glad, at any rate, you have been wise enough to change
your things, and eat some breakfast.'

'I meant to have done so much,' said Guy; 'but sea-wind makes one so sleepy!' Then, perceiving
the captain, he came forward, hoping he was quite recovered.

The captain stood mystified, for he could not believe this slim youth could be the Sir Guy
of whose name he had heard so much, and, after answering the inquiry, he began,--

'If I could have the honour of seeing Sir Guy--'

'Well?' said Guy.

'I beg your pardon, sir!' said the captain, while they all laughed, 'I did not guess you could
be so young a gentleman. I am sure, sir, 'tis what any man might be proud of having done, and--I
never saw anything like it!' he added, with a fresh start, 'and it will do you honour everywhere.
All our lives are owing to you, sir.'

Guy did not cut him short, though very glad when it was over. He felt he should not, in the
captain's place, like to have his thanks shortened, and besides, if ever there was happiness
or exultation, it was in the glistening eyes of old Markham, the first time he had ever been
able to be justly proud of one of the family, whom he loved with so much faithfulness and devotion.

CHAPTER 24

     Is there a word, or jest, or game,
     But time encrusteth round
     With sad associate thoughts the same?
               --ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.

Among the persons who spent a forlorn autumn was Mr. Ross, though his troubles were not quite
of the same description as those of his young parishioners. He missed his daughter very much;
all his household affairs got out of order; the school-girls were naughty, and neither he,
nor Miss Edmonstone, nor the mistress, could discover the culprits; their inquiries produced
nothing but a wild confusion of mutual accusations, where the truth was undistinguishable.
The cook never could find anything to make broth of, Mr. Ross could, never lay his hands on
the books he wanted for himself or anybody else; and, lastly, none of his shirts ever had their
buttons on.

Mary, meanwhile, had to remain through a whole course of measles, then to greet the arrival
of a new nephew, and to attend his christening: but she had made a vow that she would be at
home by Christmas, and she kept it.

Mr. Ross had the satisfaction of fetching her home from the station the day before Christmas
Eve, and of seeing her opposite to him, on her own side of the table, in the evening, putting
on the buttons, and considering it an especial favour and kindness, for which to be for ever
grateful, that he had written all his Christmas sermons beforehand, so as to have a whole evening
clear before her. He was never a great letter-writer, and Mary had a great deal to hear, for
all that had come to her were the main facts, with very few details.

'I have had very few letters, even from Hollywell,' said she. 'I suppose it is on account of
Charles's illness. You think him really better?'

'Yes, much better. I forgot to tell you, you are wanted for their Christmas party to-morrow night.'

'Oh! he is well enough for them not to put it off! Is he able to be out of bed?'

'No, he lies perfectly flat, and looks very thin. It has been a very severe illness. I don't
think I ever knew him suffer so much; but, at the same time, I never knew him behave so well,
or show so much patience, and consideration for other people, I was the more surprised, because
at first he seemed to have relapsed into all the ways he thought he had shaken off; he was
so irritable and fretful, that poor Mrs. Edmonstone looked worn out; but it seems to have been
only the beginning of the illness; it was very different after he was laid up.'

'Has he had you to see him?'

'Yes, he asked for it, which he never did before, and Amabel reads to him every morning. There
is certainly much more that is satisfactory about those young Edmonstones than there once seemed
reason to expect.'

'And now tell me about Sir Guy. What is the matter? Why does he not come home this winter!'

'I cannot tell you the rights of it, Mary. Mr. Edmonstone is very much offended about something
he is reported to have said, and suspects him of having been in mischief at St. Mildred's;
but I am not at all persuaded that it is not one of Mr. Edmonstone's affronts.'

'Where is he?'

'At Redclyffe. I have a letter from him which I am going to answer to-night. I shall tell the
Edmonstones about it, for I cannot believe that, if he had been guilty of anything very wrong,
his mind would be occupied in this manner;' and he gave Mary the letter.

'Oh, no!' exclaimed Mary, as she read. 'I am sure he cannot be in any mischief. What an admirable
person he is! I am very sorry this cloud has arisen! I was thinking last summer how happy they
all were together.'

'Either this or Charles's illness has cast a gloom over the whole house. The girls are both
grown much graver.'

'Amy graver?' said Mary, quickly.

'I think so. At least she did not seem to cheer up as I should have expected when her brother
grew better. She looks as if she had been nursing him too closely, and yet I see her walking
a good deal.'

'Poor little Amy!' said Mary, and she asked no more questions, but was anxious to make her
own observations.

She did not see the Edmonstones till the next evening, as the day was wet, and she only received
a little note telling her that one carriage would be sent to fetch her and Mr. Ross. The whole
of the family, except Charles, were in the drawing-room, but Mary looked chiefly at Amy. She
was in white, with holly in her hair, and did not look sorrowful; but she was paler and thinner
than last summer, and though she spoke, smiled, and laughed when she ought, it was without
the gay, childish freedom of former times. She was a small, pale, quiet girl now, not a merry,
caressing kitten. Mary recollected what she had been in the wood last summer, and was sure
it was more than Charles's illness that had altered her; yet still Amy had not Laura's harassed
look.

Mary had not much talk with Amy, for it was a large party, with a good many young ladies and
children, and Amy had a great deal of work in the way of amusing them. She had a wearied look,
and was evidently exerting herself to the utmost.

'You look tired,' said Mary, kindly.

'No, it is only stupidity,' said Amy, smiling rather sadly. 'We can't be entertaining without
Charlie.'

'It has been a melancholy winter,' began Mary, but she was surprised, for Amy's face and neck
coloured in a moment; then, recovering herself, with some hesitation, she said,--

'Oh! but Charlie is much better, and that is a great comfort. I am glad you are come home, Mary.'

'We are going to have some magic music,' was said at the other end of the room. 'Who will play?'

'Little Amy!' said Mr. Edmonstone. 'Where is she? She always does it to admiration. Amy, come
and be a performer.'

Amy rose, and came forward, but the colour had flushed into her cheeks again, and the recollection
occurred to Mary, that her fame as a performer, in that way, arose from the very amusing manner
in which she and Sir Guy had conducted the game last year. At the same moment her mother met
her, and whispered,--

'Had you rather not, my dear?'

'I can do it, mamma, thank you--never mind.'

'I should like to send you up to Charlie--he has been so long alone.'

'Oh! thank you, dear mamma,' with a look of relief.

'Here is Charlotte wild to be a musician,' said Mrs. Edmonstone. 'Perhaps you will see how
she can manage; for I think Charles must want a visit from his little nurse.'

Amy moved quietly away, and entered Charles's room, full of warm gratitude for the kindness
which was always seeking how to spare her.

Charles was asleep, and throwing a shawl round her, she sat down in the dim light of the lamp,
relieved by the stillness, only broken by now and then a louder note of the music down-stairs.
It was very comfortable, after all that buzz of talk, and the jokes that seemed so nonsensical
and tiresome. There were but two people who could manage to make a party entertaining, and
that was the reason it was so different last year. Then Amy wondered if she was the only person
who felt sick at heart and dreary; but she only wondered for a moment--she murmured half aloud
to herself, 'I said I never would think of him except at my prayers! Here I am doing it again,
and on Christmas night. I won't hide my eyes and moan over my broken reed; for Christmas is
come, and the circles of song are widening round! Glory! good will, peace on earth! How he
sang it last year, the last thing, when the people were gone, before we went up to bed. But
I am breaking my resolution again.

'Are you there, Amy?' said Charles, waking. 'What are you staying here for? Don't they want you?'

'Mamma was so kind as to send me up.'

'I am glad you are come, for I have something to tell you. Mr. Ross has been up to see me,
you know, and he has a letter from Guy.'

Amy's heart beat fast, and, with eyes fixed on the ground, she listened as Charles continued
to give an account of Guy's letter about Coombe Prior. 'Mr. Ross is quite satisfied about him,
Amy,' he concluded. 'I wish you could have heard the decided way in which he said, "He will
live it down."'

Amy's answer was to stoop down and kiss her brother's forehead.

Another week brought Guy's renewal of the correspondence.

'Amy, here is something for you to read,' said Charles, holding up the letter as she came into
the room.

She knew the writing. 'Wait one moment, Charlie, dear;' and she ran out of the room, found
her mother fortunately alone, and said, averting her face,--'Mamma, dear, do you think I ought
to let Charlie show me that letter?'

Mrs. Edmonstone took hold of her hand, and drew her round so as to look into the face through
its veiling curls. The hand shook, and the face was in a glow of eagerness. 'Yes, dearest!'
said she, for she could not help it; and then, as Amy ran back again, she asked herself whether
it was foolish, and bad for her sweet little daughter, then declared to herself that it must--it
should--it would come right.

There was not a word of Amy in the letter, but it, or something else, made her more bright
and cheerful than she had been for some time past. It seemed as if the lengthening days of
January were bringing renewed comfort with them, when Charles, who ever since October had been
confined to bed, was able to wear the Chinese dressing-gown, be lifted to a couch, and wheeled
into the dressing-room, still prostrate, but much enjoying the change of scene, which he called
coming into the world.

These were the events at quiet Hollywell, while Redclyffe was still engrossed with the shipwreck,
which seemed to have come on purpose to enliven and occupy this solitary winter. It perplexed
the Ashfords about their baronet more than ever. Mr. Ashford said that no one whose conscience
was not clear could have confronted danger as he had done; and yet the certainty that he was
under a cloud, and the sadness, so inconsistent with his age and temperament still puzzled
them. Mrs. Ashford thought she had made a discovery. The second day after the wreck, the whole
crew, except the little cabin-boy, were going to set off to the nearest sea-port; and the evening
preceding their departure, they were to meet their rescuers, the fishermen, at a supper in
the great servants' hall at the park. Edward and Robert were in great glory, bringing in huge
branches of evergreens to embellish the clean, cold place; and Mr. and Mrs. Ashford and Grace
were to come to see the entertainment, after having some coffee in the library.

Guy prepared it for his company by tumbling his books headlong from the sofa to a more remote
ottoman, sticking a bit of holly on the mantel-shelf, putting out his beloved old friend, Strutt's
'Sports and Pastimes,' to amuse Grace, and making up an immense fire; and then, looking round,
thought the room was uncommonly comfortable; but the first thing that struck Mrs. Ashford,
when, with face beaming welcome, he ushered her in from the great hall, was how forlorn rooms
looked that had not a woman to inhabit them.

The supper went off with great eclat. Arnaud at the head of the table carved with foreign courtesies,
contrasted with the downright bluff way of the sailors. As soon as Sir Guy brought Mrs. Ashford
to look in on them, old James Robinson proposed his health, with hopes he would soon come and
live among them for good, and Jonas Ledbury added another wish, that 'Lady Morville' might
soon be there too. At these words, an expression of pain came upon Guy's face; his lips were
rigidly pressed together; he turned hastily away, and paced up and down before he could command
his countenance. All were so busy cheering, that no one heeded his change of demeanour save
Mrs. Ashford; and though, when he returned to the place where he had been standing, his complexion
was deepened, his lip quivered, and his voice trembled in returning thanks, Mr. Ashford only
saw the emotion naturally excited by his people's attachment.

The lady understood it better; and when she talked it over with her husband in the evening,
they were convinced the cause of his trouble must be some unfortunate attachment, which he
might think it his duty to overcome; and having settled this, they became very fond of him,
and anxious to make Redclyffe agreeable to him.

Captain and crew departed; the little boy was better, and his hosts, Charity and Jem Ledbury,
only wished to keep him for ever; the sensation at Redclyffe was subsiding, when one morning
Markham came, in a state of extreme satisfaction and importance, to exhibit the county paper,
with a full account of the gallant conduct of the youthful baronet. Two or three days after,
on coming home from a ride to Coombe Prior, Guy found Lord Thorndale's card, and heard from
Arnaud that 'my lord had made particular inquiries how long he would be in the country, and
had been to the cliff to see where the wreck was.'

Markham likewise attached great importance to this visit, and went off into a long story about
his influence, and the representation of Moorworth, or even of the county. As soon as Guy knew
what he was talking about, he exclaimed, 'Oh, I hope all that is not coming on me yet! Till
I can manage Todd and Coombe Prior, I am sure I am not fit to manage the country!'

A few mornings after, he found on the table an envelope, which he studied, as if playing with
his eagerness. It had an East-hill post-mark, and a general air of Hollywell writing, but it
was not in the hand of either of the gentlemen, nor was the tail of the y such as Mrs. Edmonstone
was wont to make. It had even a resemblance to Amabel's own writing that startled him. He opened
it at last, and within found the hand he could not doubt--Charles's, namely--much more crooked
than usual, and the words shortened and blotted:--

'DEAR G.,--I ought not to do this, but I must; I have tyrannized over Charlotte, and obtained
the wherewithal. Write me a full account of your gallant conduct. I saw it first in A.'s face.
It has done you great good with my father. I will write more when I can. I can't get on now.
'C. M. E.'

He might well say he had first seen it in his sister's face. She had brought him the paper,
and was looking for something he wanted her to read to him, when 'Redclyffe Bay' met her eye,
and then came the whole at one delightful glance. He saw the heightened colour, the exquisite
smile, the tear-drop on the eyelash.

'Amy! what have you there?'

She pointed to the place, gave the paper into his hand, and burst into tears, the gush of triumphant
feeling. Not one was shed because she was divided from the hero of the shipwreck; they were
pure unselfish tears of joy, exultation, and thankfulness. Charles read the history, and she
listened in silence; then looked it over again with him, and betrayed how thoroughly she had
been taught the whole geography of Redclyffe Bay. The next person who came in was Charlotte;
and as soon as she understood what occupied them, she went into an ecstasy, and flew away with
the paper, rushing with it straight into her father's room, where she broke into the middle
of his letter-writing, by reading it in a voice of triumph.

Mr. Edmonstone was delighted. He was just the person who would be far more taken with an exploit
of this kind, such as would make a figure in the world, than by steady perseverance in well-doing,
and his heart was won directly. His wrath at the hasty words had long been diminishing, and
now was absolutely lost in his admiration. 'Fine fellow! noble fellow!' he said. 'He is the
bravest boy I ever heard of, but I knew what was in him from the first. I wish from my heart
there was not this cloud over him. I am sure the whole story has not a word of truth in it,
but he won't say a word to clear himself, or else we would have him here again to-morrow.'

This was the first time Mr. Edmonstone had expressed anything of real desire to recall Guy,
and it was what Charles meant in his letter.

The tyranny over Charlotte was exercised while the rest were at dinner, and they were alone
together. They talked over the adventure for the tenth time that day, and Charles grew so excited
that he vowed that he must at once write to Guy, ordered her to give him the materials, and
when she hesitated, forced her into it, by declaring that he should get up and reach the things
himself, which would be a great deal worse. She wanted to write from his dictation, but he
would not consent, thinking that his mother might not consider it proper, and he began vigorously;
but though long used to writing in a recumbent posture, he found himself less capable now than
he had expected, and went on soliloquizing thus: 'What a pen you've given me, Charlotte. There
goes a blot! Here, another dip, will you! and take up that with the blotting paper before it
becomes more like a spider.'

'Won't you make a fresh beginning?'

'No, that has cost me too much already. I've got no more command over my fingers. Here we go
into the further corner of the paper. Well! C. M. E. There 'tis--do it up, will you? If he
can read it he'll be lucky. How my arms ache!'

'I hope it has not hurt you, Charlie; but I am sure he will be very glad of it. Oh! I am glad
you said that about Amy.'

'Who told you to read it, Puss?'

'I could not help it, 'tis so large.'

