BARRY LYNDON

By William Makepeace Thackeray

From The Works Of William Makepeace Thackeray

Edited By Walter Jerrold

CONTENTS

          BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

      I.--MY PEDIGREE AND FAMILY--UNDERGO THE INFLUENCE OF THE TENDER
          PASSION

     II.--IN WHICH I SHOW MYSELF TO BE A MAN OF SPIRIT

    III.--I MAKE A FALSE START IN THE GENTEEL WORLD

     IV.--IN WHICH BARRY TAKES A NEAR VIEW OF MILITARY GLORY

      V.--IN WHICH BARRY TRIES TO REMOVE AS FAR FROM MILITARY GLORY AS
          POSSIBLE

     VI.--THE CRIMP WAGGON--MILITARY EPISODES

    VII.--BARRY LEADS A GARRISON LIFE, AND FINDS MANY FRIENDS THERE

   VIII.--BARRY BIDS ADIEU TO THE MILITARY PROFESSION

     IX.--I APPEAR IN A MANNER BECOMING MY NAME AND LINEAGE

      X.--MORE RUNS OF LUCK

     XI.--IN WHICH THE LUCK GOES AGAINST BARRY

    XII.--CONTAINS THE TRAGICAL HISTORY OF THE PRINCESS OF X-----

   XIII.--I CONTINUE MY CAREER AS A MAN OF FASHION

    XIV.--I RETURN TO IRELAND, AND EXHIBIT MY SPLENDOUR AND GENEROSITY
            IN THAT  KINGDOM

     XV.--I PAY COURT TO MY LADY LYNDON

    XVI.--I PROVIDE NOBLY FOR MY FAMILY, AND ATTAIN THE HEIGHT OF MY
          (SEEMING) GOOD FORTUNE

   XVII.--I APPEAR AS AN ORNAMENT OF ENGLISH SOCIETY

  XVIII.--IN WHICH MY GOOD FORTUNE BEGINS TO WAVER

    XIX.--CONCLUSION

BARRY LYNDON

A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

Barry Lyndon--far from the best known, but by some critics acclaimed as the finest, of Thackeray's
works--appeared originally as a serial a few years before VANITY FAIR was written; yet it was
not published in book form, and then not by itself, until after the publication of VANITY FAIR,
PENDENNIS, ESMOND and THE NEWCOMES had placed its author in the forefront of the literary men
of the day. So many years after the event we cannot help wondering why the story was not earlier
put in book form; for in its delineation of the character of an adventurer it is as great as
VANITY FAIR, while for the local colour of history, if I may put it so, it is no undistinguished
precursor of ESMOND.

In the number of FRASER'S MAGAZINE for January 1844 appeared the first instalment of 'THE LUCK
OF BARRY LYNDON, ESQ., A ROMANCE OF THE LAST CENTURY, by FitzBoodle,' and the story continued
to appear month by month--with the exception of October--up to the end of the year, when the
concluding portion was signed 'G. S. FitzBoodle.' FITZBOODLE'S CONFESSIONS, it should be added,
had appeared occasionally in the magazine during the years immediately precedent, so that the
pseudonym was familiar to FRASER'S readers. The story was written, according to its author's
own words, 'with a great deal of dulness, unwillingness and labour,' and was evidently done
as the instalments were required, for in August he wrote 'read for "B. L." all the morning
at the club,' and four days later of '"B. L." lying like a nightmare on my mind.' The journey
to the East--which was to give us in literary results NOTES OF A JOURNEY FROM CORNHILL TO GRAND
CAIRO--was begun with BARRY LYNDON yet unfinished, for at Malta the author noted on the first
three days of November--'Wrote Barry but slowly and with great difficulty.' 'Wrote Barry with
no more success than yesterday.' 'Finished Barry after great throes late at night.' In the
number of Fraser's for the following month, as I have said, the conclusion appeared. A dozen
years later, in 1856, the story formed the first part of the third volume of Thackeray's MISCELLANIES,
when it was called MEMOIRS OF BARRY LYNDON, ESQ., WRITTEN BY HIMSELF. Since then, it has nearly
always been issued with other matter, as though it were not strong enough to stand alone, or
as though the importance of a work was mainly to be gauged by the number of pages to be crowded
into one cover. The scheme of the present edition fortunately allows fitting honour to be done
to the memoirs of the great adventurer.

To come from the story as a whole to the personality of the eponymous hero. Three widely-differing
historical individuals are suggested as having contributed to the composite portrait. Best
known of these was that very prince among adventurers, G. J. Casanova de Seingalt, a man who
in the latter half of the eighteenth century played the part of adventurer--and generally that
of the successful adventurer--in most of the European capitals; who within the first five-and-twenty
years of his life had been 'abbe, secretary to Cardinal Aquaviva, ensign, and violinist, at
Rome, Constantinople, Corfu, and his own birthplace (Venice), where he cured a senator of apoplexy.'
His autobiography, MEMOIRES ECRIT PAR LUI MEME (in twelve volumes), has been described as 'unmatched
as a self-revelation of scoundrelism.' It has also been suggested, with I think far less colour
of probability, that the original of Barry was the diplomatist and satiric poet Sir Charles
Hanbury Williams, whom Dr Johnson described as 'our lively and elegant though too licentious
lyrick bard.' The third original, and one who, there cannot be the slightest doubt, contributed
features to the great portrait, is a certain Andrew Robinson Stoney, afterwards Stoney-Bowes.

The original of the Countess Lyndon was Mary Eleanor Bowes, Dowager Countess of Strathmore,
and heiress of a very wealthy Durham family. This lady had many suitors, but in 1777 Stoney,
a bankrupt lieutenant on half pay, who had fought a duel on her behalf, induced her to marry
him, and subsequently hyphenated her name with his own. He became member of Parliament, and
ran such extravagant courses as does Barry Lyndon, treated his wife with similar barbarity,
abducted her when she had escaped from him, and then, after being divorced, found his way to
a debtors' prison. There are similarities here which no seeker after originals can overlook.
Mrs Ritchie says that her father had a friend at Paris, 'a Mr Bowes, who may have first told
him this history of which the details are almost incredible, as quoted from the papers of the
time.' The name of Thackeray's friend is a curious coincidence, unless, as may well have been
the case, he was a connection of the family into which the notorious adventurer had married.
It is not unlikely that Thackeray had seen the work published in 1810--the year of Stoney-Bowes's
death--in which the whole unhappy romance was set forth. This was 'THE LIVES OF ANDREW ROBINSON
BOWES ESQ., and THE COUNTESS OF STRATHMORE. Written from thirty-three years' Professional Attendance,
from letters and other well authenticated Documents by Jesse Foot, Surgeon.' In this book we
find several incidents similar to ones in the story. Bowes cut down all the timber on his wife's
estate, but 'the neighbours would not buy it.' Such practical jokes as Barry Lyndon played
upon his son's tutor were played by Bowes on his chaplain. The story of Stoney and his marriage
will be found briefly given in the notice of the Countess's life in the DICTIONARY OF NATIONAL
BIOGRAPHY.

Whence that part of the romantic interlude dealing with the stay in the Duchy of X----, dealt
with in chapter x., etc., was inspired, Thackeray's own note\books (as quoted by Mrs Ritchie)
conclusively show: 'January 4,1844. Read in a silly book called L'EMPIRE, a good story about
the first K. of Wurtemberg's wife; killed by her husband for adultery. Frederic William, born
in 1734 (?), m. in 1780 the Princess Caroline of Brunswick Wolfenbuttel, who died the 27th
September 1788. For the rest of the story see L'EMPIRE, OU DIX ANS SOUS NAPOLEON, PAR UN CHAMBELLAN:
Paris, Allardin, 1836; vol. i. 220.' The 'Captain Freny' to whom Barry owed his adventures
on his journey to Dublin (chapter iii.) was a notorious highwayman, on whose doings Thackeray
had enlarged in the fifteenth chapter of his IRISH SKETCH BOOK.

Despite the slowness with which it was written, and the seeming neglect with which it was permitted
to remain unreprinted, BARRY LYNDON was to be hailed by competent critics as one of Thackeray's
finest performances, though the author himself seems to have had no strong regard for the story.
In directness and vigour he never surpassed it.'

W.J.

THE MEMOIRES OF BARRY LYNDON, ESQ.

CHAPTER I. MY PEDIGREE AND FAMILY--UNDERGO THE INFLUENCE OF THE TENDER PASSION

Since the days of Adam, there has been hardly a mischief done in this world but a woman has
been at the bottom of it. Ever since ours was a family (and that must be very NEAR Adam's time,--so
old, noble, and illustrious are the Barrys, as everybody knows) women have played a mighty
part with the destinies of our race.

I presume that there is no gentleman in Europe that has not heard of the house of Barry of
Barryogue, of the kingdom of Ireland, than which a more famous name is not to be found in Gwillim
or D'Hozier; and though, as a man of the world, I have learned to despise heartily the claims
of some PRETENDERS to high birth who have no more genealogy than the lacquey who cleans my
boots, and though I laugh to utter scorn the boasting of many of my countrymen, who are all
for descending from kings of Ireland, and talk of a domain no bigger than would feed a pig
as if it were a principality; yet truth compels me to assert that my family was the noblest
of the island, and, perhaps, of the universal world; while their possessions, now insignificant
and torn from us by war, by treachery, by the loss of time, by ancestral extravagance, by adhesion
to the old faith and monarch, were formerly prodigious, and embraced many counties, at a time
when Ireland was vastly more prosperous than now. I would assume the Irish crown over my coat-of-arms,
but that there are so many silly pretenders to that distinction who bear it and render it common.

Who knows, but for the fault of a woman, I might have been wearing it now? You start with incredulity.
I say, why not? Had there been a gallant chief to lead my countrymen, instead or puling knaves
who bent the knee to King Richard II., they might have been freemen; had there been a resolute
leader to meet the murderous ruffian Oliver Cromwell, we should have shaken off the English
for ever. But there was no Barry in the field against the usurper; on the contrary, my ancestor,
Simon de Bary, came over with the first-named monarch, and married the daughter of the then
King of Munster, whose sons in battle he pitilessly slew.

In Oliver's time it was too late for a chief of the name of Barry to lift up his war-cry against
that of the murderous brewer. We were princes of the land no longer; our unhappy race had lost
its possessions a century previously, and by the most shameful treason. This I know to be the
fact, for my mother has often told me the story, and besides had worked it in a worsted pedigree
which hung up in the yellow saloon at Barryville where we lived.

That very estate which the Lyndons now possess in Ireland was once the property of my race.
Rory Barry of Barryogue owned it in Elizabeth's time, and half Munster beside. The Barry was
always in feud with the O'Mahonys in those times; and, as it happened, a certain English colonel
passed through the former's country with a body of men-at-arms, on the very day when the O'Mahonys
had made an inroad upon our territories, and carried off a frightful plunder of our flocks
and herds.

This young Englishman, whose name was Roger Lyndon, Linden, or Lyndaine, having been most hospitably
received by the Barry, and finding him just on the point of carrying an inroad into the O'Mahonys'
land, offered the aid of himself and his lances, and behaved himself so well, as it appeared,
that the O'Mahonys were entirely overcome, all the Barrys' property restored, and with it,
says the old chronicle, twice as much of the O'Mahonys' goods and cattle.

It was the setting in of the winter season, and the young soldier was pressed by the Barry
not to quit his house of Barryogue, and remained there during several months, his men being
quartered with Barry's own gallowglasses, man by man in the cottages round about. They conducted
themselves, as is their wont, with the most intolerable insolence towards the Irish; so much
so, that fights and murders continually ensued, and the people vowed to destroy them.

The Barry's son (from whom I descend) was as hostile to the English as any other man on his
domain; and, as they would not go when bidden, he and his friends consulted together and determined
on destroying these English to a man.

But they had let a woman into their plot, and this was the Barry's daughter. She was in love
with the English Lyndon, and broke the whole secret to him; and the dastardly English prevented
the just massacre of themselves by falling on the Irish, and destroying Phaudrig Barry, my
ancestor, and many hundreds of his men. The cross at Barrycross near Carrignadihioul is the
spot where the odious butchery took place.

Lyndon married the daughter of Roderick Barry, and claimed the estate which he left: and though
the descendants of Phaudrig were alive, as indeed they are in my person,[Footnote: As we have
never been able to find proofs of the marriage of my ancestor Phaudrig with his wife, I make
no doubt that Lyndon destroyed the contract, and murdered the priest and witnesses of the marriage.--B.
L.] on appealing to the English courts, the estate was awarded to the Englishman, as has ever
been the case where English and Irish were concerned.

Thus, had it not been for the weakness of a woman, I should have been born to the possession
of those very estates which afterwards came to me by merit, as you shall hear. But to proceed
with my family, history.

My father was well known to the best circles in this kingdom, as in that of Ireland, under
the name of Roaring Harry Barry. He was bred like many other young sons of genteel families
to the profession of the law, being articled to a celebrated attorney of Sackville Street in
the city of Dublin; and, from his great genius and aptitude for learning, there is no doubt
he would have made an eminent figure in his profession, had not his social qualities, love
of field-sports, and extraordinary graces of manner, marked him out for a higher sphere. While
he was attorney's clerk he kept seven race-horses, and hunted regularly both with the Kildare
and Wicklow hunts; and rode on his grey horse Endymion that famous match against Captain Punter,
which is still remembered by lovers of the sport, and of which I caused a splendid picture
to be made and hung over my dining-hall mantelpiece at Castle Lyndon. A year afterwards he
had the honour of riding that very horse Endymion before his late Majesty King George II. at
New-market, and won the plate there and the attention of the august sovereign.

Although he was only the second son of our family, my dear father came naturally into the estate
(now miserably reduced to L400 a year); for my grandfather's eldest son Cornelius Barry (called
the Chevalier Borgne, from a wound which he received in Germany) remained constant to the old
religion in which our family was educated, and not only served abroad with credit, but against
His Most Sacred Majesty George II. in the unhappy Scotch disturbances in '45. We shall hear
more of the Chevalier hereafter.

For the conversion of my father I have to thank my dear mother, Miss Bell Brady, daughter of
Ulysses Brady of Castle Brady, county Kerry, Esquire and J.P. She was the most beautiful woman
of her day in Dublin, and universally called the Dasher there. Seeing her at the assembly,
my father became passionately attached to her; but her soul was above marrying a Papist or
an attorney's clerk; and so, for the love of her, the good old laws being then in force, my
dear father slipped into my uncle Cornelius's shoes and took the family estate. Besides the
force of my mother's bright eyes, several persons, and of the genteelest society too, contributed
to this happy change; and I have often heard my mother laughingly tell the story of my father's
recantation, which was solemnly pronounced at the tavern in the company of Sir Dick Ringwood,
Lord Bagwig, Captain Punter, and two or three other young sparks of the town. Roaring Harry
won 300 pieces that very night at faro, and laid the necessary information the next morning
against his brother; but his conversion caused a coolness between him and my uncle Corney,
who joined the rebels in consequence.

This great difficulty being settled, my Lord Bagwig lent my father his own yacht, then lying
at the Pigeon House, and the handsome Bell Brady was induced to run away with him to England,
although her parents were against the match, and her lovers (as I have heard her tell many
thousands of times) were among the most numerous and the most wealthy in all the kingdom of
Ireland. They were married at the Savoy, and my grandfather dying very soon, Harry Barry, Esquire,
took possession of his paternal property and supported our illustrious name with credit in
London. He pinked the famous Count Tiercelin behind Montague House, he was a member of 'White's,'
and a frequenter of all the chocolate-houses; and my mother, likewise, made no small figure.
At length, after his great day of triumph before His Sacred Majesty at Newmarket, Harry's fortune
was just on the point of being made, for the gracious monarch promised to provide for him.
But alas! he was taken in charge by another monarch, whose will have no delay or denial,--by
Death, namely, who seized upon my father at Chester races, leaving me a helpless orphan. Peace
be to his ashes! He was not faultless, and dissipated all our princely family property; but
he was as brave a fellow as ever tossed a bumper or called a main, and he drove his coach-and-six
like a man of fashion.

I do not know whether His gracious Majesty was much affected by this sudden demise of my father,
though my mother says he shed some royal tears on the occasion. But they helped us to nothing:
and all that was found in the house for the wife and creditors was a purse of ninety guineas,
which my dear mother naturally took, with the family plate, and my father's wardrobe and her
own; and putting them into our great coach, drove off to Holyhead, whence she took shipping
for Ireland. My father's body accompanied us in the finest hearse and plumes money could buy;
for though the husband and wife had quarrelled repeatedly in life, yet at my father's death
his high-spirited widow forgot all her differences, gave him the grandest funeral that had
been seen for many a day, and erected a monument over his remains (for which I subsequently
paid), which declared him to be the wisest, purest, and most affectionate of men.

In performing these sad duties over her deceased lord, the widow spent almost every guinea
she had, and, indeed, would have spent a great deal more, had she discharged one-third of the
demands which the ceremonies occasioned. But the people around our old house of Barryogue,
although they did not like my father for his change of faith, yet stood by him at this moment,
and were for exterminating the mutes sent by Mr. Plumer of London with the lamented remains.
The monument and vault in the church were then, alas! all that remained of my vast possessions;
for my father had sold every stick of the property to one Notley, an attorney, and we received
but a cold welcome in his house--a miserable old tumble-down place it was. [Footnote: In another
part of his memoir Mr. Barry will be found to describe this mansion as one of the most splendid
palaces in Europe; but this is a practice not unusual with his nation; and with respect to
the Irish principality claimed by him, it is known that Mr. Barry's grandfather was an attorney
and maker of his own fortune.]

The splendour of the funeral did not fail to increase the widow Barry's reputation as a woman
of spirit and fashion; and when she wrote to her brother Michael Brady, that worthy gentleman
immediately rode across the country to fling himself in her arms, and to invite her in his
wife's name to Castle Brady.

Mick and Barry had quarrelled, as all men will, and very high words had passed between them
during Barry's courtship of Miss Bell. When he took her off, Brady swore he would never forgive
Barry or Bell; but coming to London in the year '46, he fell in once more with Roaring Harry,
and lived in his fine house in Clarges Street, and lost a few pieces to him at play, and broke
a watchman's head or two in his company,--all of which reminiscences endeared Bell and her
son very much to the good-hearted gentleman, and he received us both with open arms. Mrs. Barry
did not, perhaps wisely, at first make known to her friends what was her condition; but arriving
in a huge gilt coach with enormous armorial bearings, was taken by her sister-in-law and the
rest of the county for a person of considerable property and distinction. For a time, then,
and as was right and proper, Mrs. Barry gave the law at Castle Brady. She ordered the servants
to and fro, and taught them, what indeed they much wanted, a little London neatness; and 'English
Redmond,' as I was called, was treated like a little lord, and had a maid and a footman to
himself; and honest Mick paid their wages,--which was much more than he was used to do for
his own domestics,--doing all in his power to make his sister decently comfortable under her
afflictions. Mamma, in return, determined that, when her affairs were arranged, she would make
her kind brother a handsome allowance for her son's maintenance and her own; and promised to
have her handsome furniture brought over from Clarges Street to adorn the somewhat dilapidated
rooms of Castle Brady.

But it turned out that the rascally landlord seized upon every chair and table that ought by
rights to have belonged to the widow. The estate to which I was heir was in the hands of rapacious
creditors; and the only means of subsistence remaining to the widow and child was a rent-charge
of L50 upon my Lord Bagwig's property, who had many turf-dealings with the deceased. And so
my dear mother's liberal intentions towards her brother were of course never fulfilled.

It must be confessed, very much to the discredit of Mrs. Brady of Castle Brady, that when her
sister-in-law's poverty was thus made manifest, she forgot all the respect which she had been
accustomed to pay her, instantly turned my maid and man-servant out of doors, and told Mrs.
Barry that she might follow them as soon as she chose. Mrs. Mick was of a low family, and a
sordid way of thinking; and after about a couple of years (during which she had saved almost
all her little income) the widow complied with Madam Brady's desire. At the same time, giving
way to a just though prudently dissimulated resentment, she made a vow that she would never
enter the gates of Castle Brady while the lady of the house remained alive within them.

She fitted up her new abode with much economy and considerable taste, and never, for all her
poverty, abated a jot of the dignity which was her due and which all the neighbourhood awarded
to her. How, indeed, could they refuse respect to a lady who had lived in London, frequented
the most fashionable society there, and had been presented (as she solemnly declared) at Court?
These advantages gave her a right which seems to be pretty unsparingly exercised in Ireland
by those natives who have it,--the right of looking down with scorn upon all persons who have
not had the opportunity of quitting the mother-country and inhabiting England for a while.
Thus, whenever Madam Brady appeared abroad in a new dress, her sister-in-law would say, 'Poor
creature! how can it be expected that she should know anything of the fashion?' And though
pleased to be called the handsome widow, as she was, Mrs. Barry was still better pleased to
be called the English widow.

Mrs. Brady, for her part, was not slow to reply: she used to say that the defunct Barry was
a bankrupt and a beggar; and as for the fashionable society which he saw, he saw it from my
Lord Bagwig's side-table, whose flatterer and hanger-on he was known to be. Regarding Mrs.
Barry, the lady of Castle Brady would make insinuations still more painful. However, why should
we allude to these charges, or rake up private scandal of a hundred years old? It was in the
reign of George II that the above-named personages lived and quarrelled; good or bad, handsome
or ugly, rich or poor, they are all equal now; and do not the Sunday papers and the courts
of law supply us every week with more novel and interesting slander?

At any rate, it must be allowed that Mrs. Barry, after her husband's death and her retirement,
lived in such a way as to defy slander. For whereas Bell Brady had been the gayest girl in
the whole county of Wexford, with half the bachelors at her feet, and plenty of smiles and
encouragement for every one of them, Bell Barry adopted a dignified reserve that almost amounted
to pomposity, and was as starch as any Quakeress. Many a man renewed his offers to the widow,
who had been smitten by the charms of the spinster; but Mrs. Barry refused all offers of marriage,
declaring that she lived now for her son only, and for the memory of her departed saint.

'Saint forsooth!' said ill-natured Mrs. Brady.

'Harry Barry was as big a sinner as ever was known; and 'tis notorious that he and Bell hated
each other. If she won't marry now, depend on it, the artful woman has a husband in her eye
for all that, and only waits until Lord Bagwig is a widower.'

And suppose she did, what then? Was not the widow of a Barry fit to marry with any lord of
England? and was it not always said that a woman was to restore the fortunes of the Barry family?
If my mother fancied that SHE was to be that woman, I think it was a perfectly justifiable
notion on her part; for the Earl (my godfather) was always most attentive to her: I never knew
how deeply this notion of advancing my interests in the world had taken possession of mamma's
mind, until his Lordship's marriage in the year '57 with Miss Goldmore, the Indian nabob's
rich daughter.

