"Look at the fire!" screamed a woman. "Oh, God help him! The car's afire!"

"He's gone up, whoever he is," muttered Jim. "They ain't an axe nor nuthin' on board, an' he's
wedged in fast. But come on, boys! I'll drop in onct mo'!"

"You go with him," another man said. "Here, you fellows, I can run fastest; I'll go to the
cabin for an axe. Some of you follow me for some water!"

Demming saw the speaker for an instant,--an erect little figure in a foppish gray suit, with
a "cat's eye" gleaming from his blue cravat. One instant he stood on the piece of timber upon
which he had jumped; the next he had flung off his coat, and was speeding down the road like
a hare.

"D---- ef 'tain't the Cunnel," said Demming.

"Come on!" shouted Talboys, never slackening his speed. "Hurry!"

The men went. Demming, weak with pain, was content to look across the gap between the trains
and watch those left behind. The smoke was growing denser now, and tongues of flame shot out
between the joints of wood. They said the man was at the other end. Happily, the wind blew
the fire from him. Jim and two other men climbed in again. Demming could hear them swearing
and shouting. He looked anxiously about, seeking a familiar figure which he could not find.
He thought it the voice of his own fears, that cry from within the car. "Good God, it's the
Bishop!" But immediately Jim thrust his head out of the window, and called, "The Bishop's in
hyar! Under the cyar seats! He ain't hurt, but we cyan't move the infernal things ter get him out!"

"Oh, Lordy!" groaned the vagabond; "an' I'm so broke up I cyan't lif' a han' ter help him!"

In desperation, the men outside tried to batter down the car walls with a broken tree limb.
Inside, they strained feverishly at the heavy timbers. Vain efforts all, at which the crackling
flames, crawling always nearer, seemed to mock.

Demming could hear the talk, the pitying comments, the praise of the Bishop: "Such a good man!"
"His poor daughter, the only child, and her mother dead!" "They were so fond of each other,
poor thing, poor thing!" And a soft voice added, "Let us pray!"

"Prayin'," muttered Demming, "jes' like wimmen! Laws, they don' know no better. How'll I git
ter him?"

He began to crawl to the car, dragging his shattered leg behind him, reckless of the throbs
of pain it sent through his nerves. "Ef I kin on'y stan' it till I git ter him!" he moaned.
"Burnin' alive's harder nor this." He felt the hot smoke on his face; he heard the snapping
and roaring of the fire; he saw the men about the car pull out Jim and his companions, and
perceived that their faces were blackened.

"It'll cotch me, suah 's death!" said Demming, between his teeth. "Well, 'tain't much mattah!"
Mustering all his strength he pulled himself up to the car window below that from which Jim
had just emerged. The crowd, occupied with the helpless rescuers, had not observed him before.
They shouted at him as one man: "Get down, it's too late!" "You're crazy, you ----!" yelled
Jim, with an oath.

"Never you min'," Demming answered, coolly. "I know what I'm 'bout, I reckon."

He had taken his revolver from his breast, and was searching through his pockets. He soon pulled
out what he sought, merely a piece of stout twine; and the crowd saw him, sitting astride the
trucks, while he tied the string about the handle of the weapon. Then he leaned over the prison
walls, and looked down upon the Bishop. Under the mass of wood and iron the Bishop lay, unhurt
but securely imprisoned; yet he had never advanced to the chancel rails with a calmer face
than that he lifted to his friend.

"Demming," he cried, "you here! Go back, I implore you! You can't save me."

"I know thet, Bishop," groaned the cracker. "I ain't tryin' ter. But I cyan't let you roast
in this yere d---- barbecue! Look a yere!" He lowered the revolver through the window. "Thar's
a pistil, an' w'en th' fire cotches onter you an' yo' gwine suah 's shootin', then put it ter
yo' head an' pull the trigger, an' yo'll be outen it all!"

The Bishop's firm pale face grew paler as he answered, "Don't tempt me, Demming! Whatever God
sends I must bear. I can't do it!" Demming paused. He looked steadily at the Bishop for a second;
then he raised the revolver, with a little quiver of his mouth. "And go away, for God's sake,
my poor friend! Bear my love to my dear, dear daughter; tell her that she has always been a
blessing and a joy to me. And remember what I have said to you, yourself. It will be worth
dying for if you will do that; it will, indeed. It is only a short pain, and then heaven! Now
go, Demming. God bless and keep you. Go!"

But Demming did not move. "Don' you want ter say a prayer, Bishop?" he said in a coaxing tone,--"jes'
a little mite o' one fur you an' me? Ye don' need ter min' 'bout sayin' 't loud. I'll unnerstan'
th' intention, an' feel jes' so edified. I will, fur a fac'."

"Go, first, Demming. I am afraid for you!"

"I'm a-gwine, Bishop," said Demming, in the same soft, coaxing tone. "Don' min' me. I'm all
right." He crouched down lower, so that the Bishop could not see him, and the group below saw
him rest the muzzle of the pistol on the window-sill and take aim.

A gasp ran through the crowd,--that catching of the breath in which overtaxed feeling relieves
itself. "He's doin' the las' kindness he can to him," said the brakeman to the conductor, "and
by the Lord, he's giv' his own life to do it!"

The flames had pierced the roof, and streamed up to the sky. Through the sickening, dull roar
they heard the Bishop's voice again:

"Demming, are you gone?"

The cracker struck a loose piece of wood, and sent it clattering down. "Yes, Bishop, that wuz
me. I'm safe on th' groun'. Good-by, Bishop. I do feel 'bleeged ter you; an', Bishop, them
chickens wuz the fust time. They wuz, on my honah. Now, Bishop, shet yo' eyes an' pray, fur
it's a-comin!"

The Bishop prayed. They could not hear what he said, below. No one heard save the uncouth being
who clung to the window, revolver in hand, steadily dying the creeping red death. But they
knew that, out of sight, a man who had smiled on them, full of life and hope, but an hour ago
was facing such torture as had tried the martyr's courage, and facing it with as high a faith.

With one accord men and women bent their heads. Jim, the brakeman, alone remained standing,
his form erect, his eyes fixed on the two iron lines that made an angle away in the horizon.
"Come on!" he yelled, leaping wildly into the air. "Fo' the Lord's sake, hurry! D---- him,
but he's the bulliest runner!"

Then they all saw a man flying down the track, axe in hand. He ran up to the car side. He began
to climb. A dozen hands caught him. "You're a dead man if you get in there!" was the cry. "Don't
you see it's all afire?"

"Try it from the outside, Colonel!" said the conductor.

"Don't you see I haven't time?" cried Talboys. "He'll be dead before we can get to him. Stand
back, my men, and, Jim, be ready to pull us both out!"

The steady tones and Talboys's business-like air had an instantaneous effect. The crowd were
willing enough to be led; they fell back, and Talboys dropped through the window. To those
outside the whole car seemed in a blaze, and over them the smoke hung like a pall; but through
the crackling and roaring and the crash of falling timber came the clear ring of axe blows,
and Talboys's voice shouting, "I say, my man, don't lose heart! We're bound to get you out!"

"Lordy, he don't know who 'tis," said Demming. "Nobody could see through that thar smoke!"

All at once the uninjured side of the car gave way beneath the flames, falling in with an immense
crash. The flame leaped into the air.

"They're gone!" cried the conductor.

"No, they're not!" yelled Demming. "He's got him, safe an' soun'!" And as he spoke, scorched
and covered with dust, bleeding from a cut on his cheek, but holding the Bishop in his arms,
Talboys appeared at the window. Jim snatched the Bishop, the conductor helped out Talboys,
and half a dozen hands laid hold of Demming. He heard the wild cheer that greeted them; he
heard another cheer for the men with the water, just in sight; but he heard no more, for as
they pulled him down a dozen fiery pincers seemed tearing at his leg, and he fainted away.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Bishop's daughter sat in her room, making a very pretty picture, with her white hands clasped
on her knee and her soft eyes uplifted. She looked sad enough to please a pre-Raphaelite of
sentiment. Yet her father, whom this morning she would have declared she loved better than
any one in the world, had just been saved from a frightful death. She knew the story of his
deliverance. At last she felt that most unexpected thrill of admiration for Talboys; but Talboys
had vanished. He was gone, it was all ended, and she owned to herself that she was wretched.
Her father was with Demming and the doctors. The poor vagabond must hobble through life on
one leg, henceforward. "If he lived," the doctor had said, making even his existence as a cripple
problematic. Poor Demming, who had flung away his life to save her father from suffering,--a
needless, useless sacrifice, as it proved, but touching Louise the more because of its very
failure!

At this stage in her thoughts, she heard Sam, the waiter, knocking softly, outside. Her first
question was about Demming. "The operation's ovah, miss, an' Mr. Demming he's sinkin'," answered
Sam, giving the sick man a title he had never accorded him before, "an' he axes if you'd be
so kin' 's to step in an' speak to him; he's powerful anxious to see you."

Silently Louise rose and followed the mulatto. They had carried Demming to the hotel; it was
the nearest place, and the Bishop wished it. His wife had been sent for, and was with him.
Her timid, tear-stained face was the first object that met Louise's eye. She sat in a rocking-chair
close to the bed, and, by sheer force of habit, was unconsciously rocking to and fro, while
she brushed the tears from her eyes. Demming's white face and tangle of iron-gray hair lay
on the pillow near her.

He smiled feebly, seeing Louise. She did not know anything better to do than to take his hand,
the tears brightening her soft eyes. "Laws," said Demming, "don' do thet. I ain't wuth it.
Look a yere, I got sunthin' ter say ter you. An' you mustn't min', 'cause I mean well. You
know 'bout--yes'day mahnin'. Mabbe you done what you done not knowin' yo' own min',--laws,
thet's jes' girls,--an' I wants you ter know jes' what kin' o' feller he is. You know he saved
yo' pa, but you don' know, mabbe, thet he didn't know 'twas the Bishop till he'd jump down
in thet thar flamin' pit o' hell, as 'twere, an' fished him out. He done it jes' 'cause he'd
thet pluck in him, an'--don' you go fer ter chippin' in, Cunnel. I'm a dyin' man, an' don'
you forget it! Thar he is, miss, hidin' like behin' the bed."

Louise during this speech had grown red to the roots of her hair. She looked up into Talboys's
face. He had stepped forward. His usual composure had quite left him, so that he made a pitiful
picture of embarrassment, not helped by crumpled linen and a borrowed coat a world too large
for him. "It's just a whim of his," he whispered, hurriedly; "he wanted me to stay. I didn't
know--I didn't understand! For God's sake, don't suppose I meant to take such an advantage
of the situation! I am going directly. I shall leave Aiken to-night."

It was only the strain on her nerves, but Louise felt the oddest desire to laugh. The elegant
Martin cut such a very droll figure as a hero. Then her eye fell on Demming's eager face, and
a sudden revulsion of feeling, a sudden keen realization of the tragedy that Martin had averted,
brought the tears back to her eyes. Her beautiful head dropped. "Why do you go--now?" said she.

"Hev you uns made it up, yet?" murmured Demming's faint voice.

"Yes," Talboys answered, "I think we have, and--I thank you, Demming." The vagabond waved his
hand with a feeble assumption of his familiar gesture. "Yo' a square man, Cunnel. I allus set
a heap by you, though I didn't let on. An' she's a right peart young lady. I'm glad yo' gwine
ter be so happy. Laws, I kind o' wish I wuz to see it, even on a wooden leg--" The woman at
his side began to sob. "Thar, thar, Alwynda, don' take on so; cyan't be helped. You mus' 'scuse
her, gen'lemen; she so petted on me she jes' cyan't hole in!"

"Demming," said the Bishop, "my poor friend, the time is short; is there anything you want
me to do?" Demming's dull eyes sparkled with a glimmer of the old humor.

"Well, Bishop, ef you don' min', I'd like you ter conduc' the fun'al services. Reckon they'll
be a genuwide co'pse this yere time, fo' suah. An', Bishop, you'll kind o' look arter Alwynda;
see she gits her cyoffee an' terbacco all right. An' I wants ter 'sure you all again thet them
thar chickens wuz the fust an' on'y thing I evah laid han's on t' want mine. Thet's the solemn
truf; ain't it, Alwynda?"

The poor woman could only rock herself in the chair, and sob, "Yes, 'tis. An', he's been a
good husband to me. I've allus hed the bes' uv everything! Oh, Lordy, 'pears 's though I cyan't
bear it, nohow!"

Louise put her hand gently on the thin shoulder, saying, "I will see that she never wants anything
we can give, Demming; and we will try to comfort her."

The cracker looked wistfully from her fresh, young face to the worn face below. "She wuz 's
peart an' purty 's you, miss, w'en I fust struck up with 'er," said he, slowly. "Our little
gal wuz her very image. Alwynda," in a singularly soft, almost diffident tone, "don' take on
so; mabbe I'm gwine fer ter see 'er again. 'Twon't do no harm ter think so, onyhow," he added,
with a glance at Talboys, as though sure there of comprehension.

Then the Bishop spoke, solemnly, though with sympathy, urging the dying man, whose worldly
affairs were settled, to repent of his sins and prepare for eternity. "Shall I pray for you,
Demming?" he said, in conclusion.

"Jes' as you please, Bishop," answered Demming, and he tried to wave his hand. "I ain't noways
partickler. I reckon God a'mighty knows I'd be th' same ole Demming ef I could get up, an'
I don' mean ter make no purtenses. But mabbe it'll cheer up th' ole 'ooman a bit. So you begin,
an' I'll bring in an Amen whenever it's wanted!"

So speaking, Demming closed his eyes wearily, and the Bishop knelt by the bedside. Talboys
and Louise left them, thus. After a while, the wife stretched forth her toil-worn hand and
took her husband's. She thought she was aware of a weak pressure. But when the prayer ended
there came no Amen. Demming was gone where prayer may only faintly follow; nor could the Bishop
ever decide how far his vagabond had joined in his petitions. Such doubts, however, did not
prevent his cherishing an assured hope that the man who died for him was safe, forever. The
Bishop's theology, like that of most of us, yielded, sometimes, to the demands of the occasion.

LOST.

BY EDWARD BELLAMY.

Scribner's Monthly, December, 1877.

KIRBY'S COALS OF FIRE.

BY LOUISE STOCKTON.

Atlantic Monthly, December, 1875.

Considering it simply as an excursion, George Scott thought, leaning over the side of the canal-boat
and looking at the shadow of the hills in the water, his plan for spending his summer vacation
might be a success, but he was not so sure about his opportunities for studying human nature
under the worst conditions. It was true that the conditions were bad enough, but so were the
results, and George was not in search of logical sequences. He had been in the habit of saying
that nothing interested him as much as the study of his fellows; and that he was in earnest
was proved by the fact that even his college experiences had not yet disheartened him, although
they had cost him not a few neckties and coats, and sometimes too many of his dollars. But
George had higher aspirations, and was not disposed to be satisfied with the opportunities
presented by crude collegians or even learned professors, and so meant to go out among men.
When he was younger,--a year or two before,--he had dreamed of a mission among the Indians,
fancying that he would reach original principles among them; but the Modocs and Captain Jack
had lowered his faith, while the Rev. Dr. Buck's story of how the younger savages had been
taught to make beds and clean knives, until they preferred these civilized occupations to their
old habit of scampering through the woods, had dispelled more of the glitter, and he had resolved
to confine his labors to his white brethren. He did not mean to seek his opportunities among
the rich, nor among the monotonously dreary poor of the city, but in a fresher field. Like
most theological students, he was well read in current literature, and he had learned how often
the noblest virtues are found among the roughest classes. It was true, they were sometimes
so latent that like the jewel in a toad's head they had the added grace of unexpectedness,
but that did not interfere with the fact of their existence. He had read of California gamblers
who had rushed from tables where they had sat with bowie-knives between their teeth, to warn
a coming train of broken rails, and, when picked up maimed and dying, had simply asked if the
children were saved, and then, content, had turned aside and died. He knew the story of the
Mississippi engineer who, going home with a long-sought fortune to claim his waiting bride,
had saved his boat from wreck by supplying the want of fuel by hat, coat, boots, wedding-clothes,
gloves, favors, and finally his bag of greenbacks and Northern Pacific bonds, then returning
to his duty, sans money, sans wife, but plus honor and a rewarding conscience. When men are
capable of such heroism, George would say, arguing from these and similar stories, they are
open to true reformation, all that is necessary being some exercise of an influence that shall
make such impulses constant instead of spasmodic.

About noon he had not been quite so sanguine regarding his mission, and had almost resolved
that when they reached Springfield he would return East and join some of his class who were
going to the Kaatskills. The sun was then pouring down directly on the boat, the cabin was
stifling, the horses crept sluggishly along, the men were rude and brutal, and around him was
an atmosphere of frying fish and boiling cabbage. The cabbage was perhaps the crowning evil;
for while he found it possible to force his ear and eye to be deaf and blind to the disagreeable,
he had no amount of will that could conquer the sense of smell. There seemed to be little,
he thought, with some contempt for his expectations, to reward his quest or maintain his theory
that every one had at least one story to tell. It was not necessarily one's own story, he had
said, but lives the most barren in incident come into contact with those more vehement, and
have the chance of looking into tragedies, into moral victories and fierce conflicts, through
other men's eyes. He had hinted something of this to Joe Lakin early in the morning, when the
mist was rising off the hills, when the air was fresh and keen, and the sun was making the
long lines of oil upon the river glitter like so many brilliant snakes. Joe was the laziest
and roughest of the men on the boat, but he sometimes had such a genial and even superior manner,
that George had felt sure that he would comprehend his meaning. Thus when noon came, hot, close,
and heavy with prophecy of dinner, George had sickened of human nature and of psychological
studies; but now the sun had set, and a golden glory lit the sky; the fields on one side of
the river rolled away green in clover and wavy in corn, the hills heavily wooded rose high
and picturesquely on the other side, and the little island in the bend of the river seemed
the home of quiet and of peace. The horses plodded patiently through the water, going out on
the shallows and avoiding the deeper currents near the shore, and the boys, forgetting to shout
and swear, rode along softly whistling. Over by the hills stood a cottage, and in the terraced
garden a group of girls with bright ribbons in their hair were playing quoits with horseshoes.
A rowboat was carrying passengers over the river to meet the evening train, and under the sweetness
of the twilight George's spirits arose lightly to their level, his old faith returned to him,
and he looked up with a new sense of fellowship to Joe, who was filling a pipe with his favorite
"towhead."

"It's a pity you don't smoke," said Joe, carefully striking a match and holding his cap before
it, "for it seems a gift thrown away; and this tobacco is uncommon good, though you might fancy
it a notion too strong. I've noticed that most preachers smoke, although they don't take kindly
to drinking. I suppose they think it wouldn't seem the proper thing, and perhaps it wouldn't;
but there's Parson Robinson,--I should think that a good, solid drink would be a real comfort
to him sometimes. He's got a hard pull of it with a half share of victuals and a double share
of children, so the two ends hardly ever see each other, much less think of meeting."

George hesitated for reply. He thought Joe was unnecessarily rough at times, and alluded to
the ministry much too frequently. He had fancied when he left home that his blue flannel and
gray tweed, with rather a jovial manner, would divest him of all resemblance to a theological
student, and enable him to meet his companions on the ground of a common humanity, especially
as he had at present no missionary intentions excepting those that might flow indirectly from
his personal influence. Still, while he wanted Joe to recognize his broad liberality, he owed
it to himself not to be loose in his expression of opinion.

"Well, yes," he said, slowly, "I suppose it would help a man to forget his troubles for a time,
but the getting over the spree and coming back to the same old bothers, not a bit better for
the forgetting, would hardly be much comfort, even if the thing were right."

"Maybe not," replied Joe; "I s'pose it wouldn't be comfortable if those were your feelin's,
but I reckon you don't know much about it unless from hearsay. But I tell you one thing, whiskey's
a friend to be trusted"--adding, slowly, with a glance at George's face--"to get you into trouble
if you let it get the upper hand of you. It's like a woman in that! It begins with the same
letter too, and that's another likeness!"

George made no answer to this joke, over which Joe chuckled enough for both, and then returned
to the charge:

"I've seen a good deal of life, one way and another," Joe said, "but I don't know much of parsons.
Somehow they haven't been in my line; but if I had to choose between being a parson or a doctor,
I'd take the doctor by long odds. You see the world's pretty much of a hospital as far as he's
concerned, and when he can't tinker a man up, he lets him slide off and nobody minds; but the
parson's different. When a man takes sick he looks kind of friendly on the doctor, because,
you see, he expects him to cure him; but when the parson comes, he tells him what a miserable
sinner he is and what he's coming to at last. Now, it ain't in nature to like that, and I don't
blame the fellows who say they can stand a parson when they are well, but that he's worse than
a break-bone fever and no water handy when they're sick. And I shouldn't think any man would
like to go about making himself unpleasant to others! Leastways, I wouldn't. Kicking Kirby
used to say that he'd rather be a woman than a parson, and the force of language couldn't go
further than that! He knew what he was talking about, for some of his folks were preachers;
and there was good in Kirby, too! People may say what they please, but I'll allers hold to that!"

"Who was he?" asked George, happy to change the subject, being a little uneasy in his hold
upon it, and hopeful of a story at last.

Joe looked over the hills.

"Well, he was a friend of mine when I was prospecting for oil, once. I allers liked Kicking Kirby."

George sat patiently waiting, while Jim refilled his pipe and then began:

"There ain't so much to tell, but men do curious things sometimes, and Kirby, I guess, was
a man few folks would have expected very much of. There was hard things said of him, but he
could allers strike a blow for a friend, or hold his own with the next man, let him be who
he might. You see, there were a good many of us in camp, and we had fair enough luck; for the
men over at Digger's Run had struck a good vein, so money was plenty and changed hands fast
enough. We'd all hung together in our camp until Clint Bowers got into trouble. None of the
rest of us wanted to get mixed up in the fuss, but somehow we did, and the other camp fought
shy of us and played mostly among themselves; and I've allers held that it is poor fun to take
out of one pocket to put into the other. Our boys had different opinions about it, and some
of them held that it wasn't Clint's awkward work that they'd got mad at, but that they meant
to shut down on Kirby. You see, Kirby was a very lucky player, and although pretty rough things
were said about it, nobody ever got a clear handle against him, and he wasn't the kind of fellow
that was pleasant to affront. Kirby used to say it was all along of Clint; that he ought to
have been kept from the cards, or sent down the river; that we'd have had a good run of luck
all winter if it hadn't been for him. I don't know the rights properly, but I allers thought
it was about six of one and a half dozen of the other. Anyhow, there was bad blood about it,
and that don't run up hill, you know, and so there was trouble soon enough. The boys got into
words one night, and Kirby threw a mug at Clint, who out with his knife and was at Kirby like
a flash. Lucky for him Clint's eyes weren't in good seeing order, and the liquor hadn't made
his arm any the more steady, so Kirby only got a scratch on his arm. It showed what Clint would
like to do, though, and some of the boys made pretty heavy bets on the end of it. I stuck up
for Kirby, for you see I knew him pretty well, and there was true grit in him; and then, too,
he was oncommon pleasant about it, and even stopped saying much about Clint's blocking up our
luck over at the Run.

"Well, just about then Jack White came over from Cambria and told Clint that he'd heard that
his uncle was asking around where he was. You see, Clint's uncle had a store down there, and
had made a tidy pile of money, and as he hadn't any children, he said he wouldn't mind leaving
it to him if he was living respectable. Clint had lived with him when he was a boy, but they
hadn't got along very well, so Clint ran off. The old man didn't mind this, though, and now
he wanted to find him. Jack said he was sure that if Clint was to go over and play his cards
right he'd get the money. You may be sure this was a stroke of luck for Clint just then, and
he didn't like to lose it; but you see he didn't look very genteel, and he knew his uncle was
sharp enough to find it out. He was fat enough, for whiskey never made a living skeleton of
him, but it was plain that it wasn't good health that had made his nose so red, nor fine manners
that had given him the cut across his cheek and bruised up his eye. The boys all allowed that
he was the hardest-looking chap in the camp, and if his uncle left him his money, it wouldn't
be on the strength of his good countenance! But you know he had to do something right off,
and so he wrote as pretty a letter to the old man as ever I want to see; but when the answer
came it said his uncle was very sick, and as he had something particular to say to him, wouldn't
Clint come over at once, and inclosed he'd find the money for his fare. I tell you this stumped
Clint, for he'd had another fight, and was a picture to behold.

"But here's where the surprise to us all came in. Clint was pretty well puzzled what to do,
and while all the boys were advising him, Kirby spoke up. I'd noticed he was pretty quiet,
but nobody could have guessed what he was thinking about. He looked some like Clint, and once
had been pitched into by a new Digger Run boy for Clint. The fellow never made the second mistake
about them. It wasn't as though they were twins, but they both had brown hair and long beards,
blue eyes, and were about the same build, so you couldn't have made a descriptive list of the
one that wouldn't have done for the other. What Kirby said was that Clint's uncle hadn't seen
him since he was a boy, and he'd expect to find him changed; and although he--that's Kirby,
you know--had had hard feelin's to Clint, he wasn't a man to hold a grudge, and he'd let bygones
be bygones. So if Clint thought well of it, he'd go over to Cambria, and if he found the land
lay right he'd pass off for him, and make things sure.

"This struck us all of a heap, for we knew Kirby could do it if he choose and if nobody interfered
with him, and that he really could cajole the old man better than Clint could; for when that
fellow got wound up to talk he was allers going you five better. Some of the boys thought it
rather risky, and they wanted Clint to write and say he had the typhoid fever, and so stave
it off until he looked fit to go; but he knew that if he crossed his uncle now he'd likely
enough lose everything, and so he thought it best to make sure and let Kirby go and see, anyhow.
One thing that helped Kirby along was that his first wife had come from Cambria, and he'd heard
her talk so much about the people that he knew nearly as much of them as Clint did. To make
the matter sure, Clint stuffed him with all he remembered, and one night we got up a-practising;
and we made out that we were the folks, and Kirby pow-wowed to the minister, and old Miss Cranby--that
was me!--and the doctor, until he knew his lesson and we'd nearly split our sides laughing.

