"Do you think so, Hawser?" Said Mr. Bowen, slowly drawling out his words; "well, I don't know
but you are more than half right. There have been some deaths from yellow fever in Savannah
already this season, and who knows but" and turning to the captain, who at this moment came
on deck, carelessly handling his toothpick, he exclaimed, "Captain Allen, Mr. Conners has got
the yellow fever!"

The captain started back, aghast, at this terrible announcement. His face was as white as a
sheet. "The yellow fever, Mr. Bowen! God forbid! What makes you think so?"

"Why," replied the mate, "the symptoms are precisely those of yellow fever; and you know there
were some fatal cases among the shipping before we left Savannah."

"That's true, Mr. Bowen true as a book. Perhaps it IS the yellow fever. O Lord! The yellow
fever on board the Joseph! What SHALL we do, Mr. Bowen? Had we not better put back? Who knows
whose turn it may be next? The yellow fever! Why, this is dreadful!"

And the yellow fever it proved to be. The unfortunate man was seized with delirium in less
than twelve hours after he was attacked, and died on the following day. The captain was terribly
frightened, and was half disposed to make for the nearest port and resign command of the brig.
But Mr. Bowen succeeded in calming his fears, and convince him, that by sprinkling the cabin
and forecastle freely with vinegar, and burning brimstone, tobacco-leaves, and tar several
hours in a day for several successive days, the infected atmosphere would be rendered pure
and innoxious. The experiment was tried; and for more than a week the captain, to the great
annoyance of the sailors, was every day busy in devising means of salutary fumigation, and
carrying them into effect, or, in other words, trying to drive out one poison by introducing
another a hundred times more offensive to our olfactories, and attended, if possible, with
more unpleasant associations.

We pursued our course towards Gottenburg; steering nearly in the direction of the Gulf Stream,
passing to the southward of the Bank of Newfoundland, and then standing away to the northward
and eastward, with a view to pass north of Scotland and enter the Skager-rack through the broad
passage which separates the Orkneys from the Shetland Islands. On the passage we fell in with
the little islet, or huge rock, known as Rockal, which lies almost in mid-ocean, being about
two hundred miles west of the coast of Scotland. This rock is only a few hundred feet in length,
and rises abruptly to a height eighty or a hundred feet. It is craggy and precipitous, and
is the resort of seals, and myriads of birds, as osprays, gulls, and gannets, which abound
in that part of the ocean, and there, undisturbed by the presence of man, lay their eggs and
rear their young. Rockal has the appearance, when first seen, of a large ship under sail, and
is of a dark gray color, being covered in some parts, probably to the depth of many feet, with
birdlime, or guano, the accumulation of ages. But as this rock is exposed to the peltings of
the pitiless storms, which are frequent in this part of the world, and is subject to the extremes
of heat and cold, it is possible that the rich beds of guano with which it is covered are not
of the best quality; besides, as it can boast of no bay or nook in which a vessel, or even
a boat, can ride in safety, but is exposed on every side to the constant succession of waves
rolling onward eternally across the ocean, but not always in the same direction, forbidding
the landing of any human being on its craggy sides, its treasures, however valuable, will probably
remain undisturbed forever.

This restlessness of the ocean, creating an undulating surface, even during long-continued
calms, excites the wonder of all who, never having been abroad upon the waters, imagine its
surface is always smooth and unruffled unless disturbed by a gale of wind. This "tramp of the
ocean waves" is beautifully described by Charles H. Brown, one of the "Bowdoin Poets":

     "Roll on, old Ocean, dark and deep!
     For thee there is no rest.
     Those giant waves shall never sleep,
     That o'er thy billowy breast
     Tramp like the march of conquerors,
     Nor cease their choral hymn
     Till earth with fervent heat shall melt,
     And lamps of heaven grow dim."

The next land we fell in with was Fair Isle, which lies about half way between the Shetland
and the Orkney Islands, being about twenty-five miles south of Sumburgh Head, the southern
extremity of the principal of the Shetland Islands. Fair Isle, as is indeed the case with all
these islands which are susceptible of cultivation, is inhabited by a rude and hardy race of
beings; the men being engaged a large portion of the time in the ling and cod fishery, which
is extensively carried on in this part of the world. Taking advantage of their locality in
mid-channel, the boatmen from Fair Isle also board vessels which pass to an fro, going "north
about," and exchange fish and a slender variety of vegetables for tobacco and rum; those articles,
so unnecessary to happiness or comfort, being greedily coveted by the rude and semi-barbarous
inhabitants of those regions, who also, be it said to their credit, will not object to receive
a dozen of biscuit, a piece of beef or pork, or a goodly portion of any other palatable article
of food.

We were boarded by two of these boats from Fair Isle, well filled with stalwart and sturdy
beggars; and dealing with such a man as Captain Allen, good natured and wanting in decision
and energy, their solicitations for favors almost took the shape of peremptory demands, and
the brig was virtually laid under a heavy contribution. Some of the most bold and importunate
visited the forecastle, and manifested such an inquisitive and rapacious spirit in their quest
after tobacco, that we were provoked to treat them in a manner most inhospitable, and drive
them on deck.

Proceeding across the head of the North Sea, and running for the "Naze of Norway," the weather
being pleasant and the sea smooth, I persuaded Mr. Bowen to throw a fishing-line over the stern
and let it trail, with the expectation of catching some mackerel. We succeeded in capturing
several of those excellent fish, and also two or three gar-fish; a kind of fish I have never
met with elsewhere excepting in the tropical seas. These gar-fish of the North Sea were of
comparatively small size, about fifteen inches in length, but of most delicious flavor. Their
long and slim backbone being of a deep emerald green color, Captain Allen, with characteristic
sagacity, concluded that these fish were poisonous and unwholesome, and banished them from
the cabin. They were heartily welcomed in the forecastle, however, their qualities fully tested,
and the skipper was pronounced the most verdant of the two!

Passing the Naze, a high bluff point at the south-western extremity of Norway, and then losing
sight of the rough, mountainous coast, intersected by innumerable arms of the sea, called FIORDS,
penetrating inland for miles, we crossed the Skager-rack and entered the Cattegat Sea, which
divides the western shores of Sweden from the coast of Jutland, and which is about a hundred
miles in length and fifty miles in breadth. We soon got sight of Wingo Beacon, a high pyramidal
monument, built on a rock at one of the entrances of the fiord on which the city of Gottenburg
is situated, and procured a pilot, who took us through a narrow, winding channel among the
rocks, into a snug haven surrounded by barren islets, and brought the brig to anchor.

Here we were obliged to remain until visited the next morning by the health officer; for the
quarantine regulations of Sweden, although not so vexatious and absurd as in many other ports
of Europe, were nevertheless very strict. A case of plague or yellow fever was never known
in Gottenburg, or in any other port in Sweden, yet it was the universal belief among medical
men that both diseases were contagious, and could be imported in ships from the Mediterranean
and the West Indies. Therefore, an elaborate code of sanitary regulations was established,
and precautions of the most useless, yet annoying character to persons engaged in commerce,
were taken to prevent the introduction of diseases, which could not exist an hour in that northern
climate.

The health officer, a grave and dignified personage, with a formidable posse, was rowed alongside
the brig in an eight-oared barge. He asked the question, "Are you all well on board?"

"Yes."

The crew were summoned to the side of the vessel, and their phizzes critically examined by
the doctor. We were then ordered up the rigging as high as the tops, to exhibit our activity,
and prove that our muscles were in good working condition.

"Where is your roll of equipage?" asked the doctor.

This document, containing a list of the crew as shipped in Havana, and certified at the custom
house, after having undergone an unpleasant process of purification, was passed to the health
officer, by the aid of a pair of tongs with legs of extraordinary length.

On counting heads, and comparing the actual number of those who were anxiously looking over
the gunwale with the list of the ship's company, that vigilant functionary shook his head.
One of the number was missing! An explanation was demanded. Captain Allen was embarrassed.
He trumped up a clumsy story about a bad cold, ill health of long standing, consumption, etc.,
but whispered not a syllable of yellow fever. He was a poor hand at deception; but he might
as well have stated the whole truth, for as in all places abroad where strict quarantine laws
are established, if one or more of the crew is missing, it matters not whether he died of accident
or disease, the health officers take it for granted, and insist upon it in spite of evidence
to the contrary, that he died of plague if the vessel is from the Mediterranean, or of yellow
fever if from a southern American port or the West Indies.

Greatly to the mortification of Captain Allen, and to the loudly expressed dissatisfaction
of the crew, the brig was ordered to remain TEN DAYS IN QUARANTINE.

Nor was this all the trouble and annoyance consequent on the deficiency in the "roll of equipage."
Fumigations in the cabin and the forecastle, of a character stronger and more disagreeable
than Captain Allen ever dreamed of, were carried on, under the direction of the pilot and a
revenue officer, several times a day. They were attended with a most inodorous effluvia, and
caused such a general concert of sneezing and coughing, by night as well as by day, that one
would have thought influenza, in its most fearful shape and with giant power, had seized every
man by the throat.

Chapter XXXVI. SANITARY LAWS--MUTINY AND MURDER

Laws for the preservation of the health of a community have been established among civilized
nations in every age. And when these laws are based on reason and intelligence, they undoubtedly
subserve a noble purpose. But the quarantine laws all over the world, with some rare exceptions,
being the offspring of ignorance and terror, are not only the climax of absurdity, but act
as an incubus on commerce, causing ruinous delays in mercantile operations, much distress,
and unnecessary expense.

The PLAGUE was formerly universally regarded as a contagious disease, and to prevent the horrors
which attend its introduction in large cities, the most stringent laws have been enacted for
ages. But the contagiousness of the plague is now doubted by many enlightened physicians. Whether
it be so or not, it never made its appearance in countries bordering on the North Sea or the
Baltic, or on the American continent. Although many vessels every year, almost every month,
arrive in our principal ports from the Levant, freighted with rags and other articles, constituting
a medium through which this disease, if contagious, would surely be propagated, yet this dreadful
scourge of cities, in ancient and modern times, has never been brought across the Atlantic.

The small pox is another disease against the introduction of which quarantine laws have been
established. That it is contagious there is no question; but by the blessed discovery of vaccination,
this disease, once so dreadful, is robbed of its horrors, and rendered as harmless as the measles
or the whooping cough, insomuch that laws, formerly enacted in different states to protect
the people from the dangers of the small pox have generally been repealed.

The Asiatic cholera, when it first made its appearance in Europe, was believed to be contagious.
Quarantine laws, of the most stringent character, were adopted to prevent its introduction
into seaports, and military CORDONS SANITAIRE were drawn around the frontiers of nations to
shut it out of villages and towns, until it was ascertained to be an epidemic disease, the
germs of which were in the atmosphere, and could no more be controlled than the winds which
sweep the earth.

The YELLOW FEVER, however, has for many years been the most terrible bugbear, and to prevent
its introduction into the seaports of Europe and the United States has been the chief end and
aim of the absurd and ridiculous quarantine regulations to which I have referred. It has never
been regarded as contagious by well-informed men in countries where it is most prevalent, and
now, in spite of long-existing and deeply-stamped prejudices, it is generally admitted, by
enlightened physicians, that the YELLOW FEVER IS NOT CONTAGIOUS. NOT A SINGLE WELL-ESTABLISHED
FACT CAN BE ADDUCED TO SHOW THE CONTAGIOUS CHARACTER OF THE DISEASE, OR THAT IT CAN BE CONVEYED
IN CARGOES OF ANY DESCRIPTION FROM ONE COUNTRY TO ANOTHER.

Persons in good health may leave a port where yellow fever prevails, and carry within them
the seeds of the disease, and on arriving at another port several days afterwards, or on the
passage thither, may be attacked with the disease in its most appalling character, and die;
BUT THE DISEASE IS NOT COMMUNICATED TO OTHERS. Indeed, the yellow fever is not so INFECTIOUS
as the typhus or scarlet fever, which prevails every season in northern climes.

When the yellow fever broke out in New York, and caused much alarm, nearly forty years ago,
the first cases occurred in the vicinity of Trinity Church, and until destroyed by a black
frost, it spread gradually in every direction from this common centre, insomuch that the "infected
district" was clearly defined and marked out from day to day. Persons, who had been in the
"infected district," and left it for other parts of the country, were subsequently attacked
by this disease hundreds of miles from New York, and died; but not a single instance occurred
in which it was communicated to others. And so in the West Indies: the yellow fever sometimes
rages fearfully in one city or town, while in another, on the same island, not a single case
exists, although there is a daily and unobstructed intercourse between the two places. And
whenever, owing to some mysterious agency, it makes its appearance, precautions to prevent
its extension seem useless. It overleaps all barriers, and attacks with equal severity the
inmates of a palace or a filthy hovel, the captain of a ship in a splendid cabin, surrounded
with phials and pills, and Jack in the forecastle, redolent of tobacco, and destitute of ventilation.

The quarantine regulations in Boston formerly partook of the unreasonable and absurd character,
which, to a greater or less extent, has marked these regulations in all maritime countries.
Vessels arriving from certain ports where yellow fever was supposed to prevail, were not allowed
to haul to a wharf and discharge cargo, or hold any direct personal communication with the
city, until the expiration of twenty-five days after leaving port. Thus a vessel from the West
Indies, having perishable commodities on board, might reach Boston in twelve days, the vessel
and cargo in good condition, and every man stout and hearty. But it was supposed that yellow
fever might lurk among the crew, or lie concealed among boxes of sugars or cigars, and, therefore,
thirteen additional days were allowed to give it an opportunity to escape. At the expiration
of that time, when the patience of the men, kept so long in durance vile without the shadow
of a cause, in sight of their homes, was exhausted, and the perishable portion of the cargo
in a most unwholesome state of decomposition, caused by the delay, the vessel was pronounced
pure, in a fit condition to receive PRATIQUE, and allowed to haul alongside the wharf, receive
visitors on board, and discharge cargo.

The reader, inexperienced in the mysteries of sanitary regulations, may smile at the absurdity
of such proceedings, but the system of guarding the public against the horrors of the yellow
fever, adopted by the health department of Boston, was in those days remarkably judicious and
indulgent, when compared with the regulations in other cities, and which exist at the present
time, not only on the other side of the Atlantic, but in this country. And, to the credit of
Boston, and as an illustration of the intelligence of her citizens, it should be recorded that
this seaport, the principal one in New England, WAS THE FIRST IN THE CIVILIZED WORLD TO EXPRESS
AN OPINION THAT THE YELLOW FEVER WAS NOT CONTAGIOUS, and to repeal those ridiculous, useless,
and burdensome "quarantine laws," which, originating in panic terror, have been instituted
from time immemorial, to prevent the introduction of plague and yellow fever, and establish
in their stead sanitary regulations, which are in accordance with the dictates of common sense.

Infectious diseases are sometimes caused by the foul air arising from a ship's hold, owing
to the decomposition of vegetable substances in a hot climate, or to an accumulation of filth,
without ventilation, when crowded with passengers. The malignant, pestilential disease, caused
by inhaling this noxious atmosphere, often sweeps off portions of the crew and passengers;
and those who visit a ship under such circumstances, and breathe the poisonous gases, even
in a northern latitude, are liable to be attacked by this fatal disease. But the ordinary quarantine
regulations will afford no protection in such a case. A few weeks' delay in quarantine after
the crew have become acclimated, and fumigations, and sprinklings with acids in the cabin,
until all hands are pickled or smoke-dried, will not purify the ship's hold, prevent the exhalation
of pestilential gases, and arrest the progress of infection.

Then may we not hope that the expensive quarantine establishments, with sweeping, indiscriminating
regulations, founded on prejudice, and continued through fear and ignorance, a disgrace to
this enlightened age, and a dead weight on commercial enterprise, will soon be abolished? In
their stead let a board of health be instituted, with an office where business can be transacted
at all hours. Let the master of every vessel which arrives in port, and on board of which deaths
have occurred during the passage, report the same at the health office, that judicious measures,
such as are adapted to the particular case, may be resorted to, in order to protect the community
or individuals from inconvenience or danger when INFECTIOUS diseases exist.

Time passes slowly in quarantine. The officers of a ship are generally taciturn, surly, and
exacting; and the crew are unhappy, discontented, disposed to grumble, and ready to quarrel
and fight on the most trivial occasions, and often without any occasion whatever. At the expiration
of ten protracted days after we let go our anchor in the outer harbor of Gottenburg, we were
again honored with a visit from the health officer. The crew manifested their vigorous physical
condition by another clamber up the rigging. The officer came on board, shook hands with the
captain, and congratulated him on being released from quarantine. The pilot took charge of
the vessel, the men were ordered to man the windlass, which order was obeyed with alacrity.
Faces diminished in longitude, and were lighted up with smiles. The anchor song of "Yeo, Heave
O," never sounded more musical or inspiring than on that occasion. Sail was made on the brig
with magical dexterity, and the crew were in fine spirits, jocund, and happy, as we thridded
the channel extending some ten miles to the city, looked with surprise upon the innumerable
barren rocks and islets scattered around, and entering the strait, surveyed with increasing
interest and pleasure cultivated fields, and neat-looking dwelling houses, and men, women,
and children, busily engaged in their customary occupations. We felt that we were in the world
once more.

Gottenburg is a large and populous city, situated on a plain near the extremity of the fiord,
about thirteen miles from the Cattegat, but almost encircled by steep and craggy rocks, hills,
and a bold and picturesque scenery, with a fine harbor, the entrance to which is easily defended;
it is conveniently located for the foreign trade of Sweden, and next to Stockholm, has the
most extensive commerce of any port in the kingdom. Its exports consist chiefly of iron and
steel, brought from rich mines nearly two hundred miles in the interior, by a well-perfected
system of inland navigation. We lay some weeks at anchor in the upper harbor, and I had abundant
opportunities to visit the city, mark its peculiarities and note the character of its inhabitants,
who, in Gottenburg and vicinity, as in other parts of the kingdom, are simple and industrious
in their habits, and civil and hospitable to strangers.

After our cargo was discharged and a sufficient quantity of iron taken on board for ballast,
the American consul informed Captain Allen that he had a prisoner under his charge, accused
of a capital crime, whom it was necessary to send to the United States for trial, and that
the brig Joseph had been selected for the honor of conveying the criminal across the ocean.
The captain did not appear flattered by this mark of confidence on the part of the consul;
he ventured a weak remonstrance, but finally submitted with a good grace. Preparations were
accordingly made for the reception of the prisoner, who had made one of the crew of the large
clipper schooner Plattsburg, on board which vessel mutiny, piracy, and murder had been committed.

The Plattsburg sailed from Baltimore about the 1st of July, 1816, bound on a voyage to Smyrna,
in the Mediterranean, with a cargo of coffee, and $42,000 in specie. The schooner was commanded
by William Hackett; the name of the chief mate was Frederick Yeizer, the second mate was Stephen
B. Onion, and Thomas Baynard was the supercargo. The crew consisted of six persons, all of
whom were foreigners, and among them were some desperate, hardened ruffians, who had learned
lessons in villany on board Patriot privateers, some of which, under no legal restraint, and
responsible to no government, were little better than pirates. The names of these men were
John Williams a Canadian, Peter Rog a Dane, Francis Frederick a Spaniard, Miles Petersen a
Swede, William Stromer a Prussian, and Nathaniel White an Englishman.

Before the Plattsburg had passed Cape Henry symptoms of insubordination appeared among the
crew. One of the men, named John Williams, was particularly insolent and troublesome, and was
chastised by the captain, after which the voyage was quietly pursued, and the crew were obedient
and apparently contented. But beneath this apparent calm a terrible storm was brewing. A fiendish
plan was devised by Williams and Stromer, and agreed to by the rest, to murder the officers
and get possession of the money, which they knew was on board. They first determined to poison
the captain, supercargo, and mates, but owing to some failure in their calculations, this plan
was abandoned. When off the Western Islands, it was determined, after some discussion to seize
on the officers while they were taking an observation of the sun at meridian, and, following
the example of the mutineers of the Bounty, compel them to embark in the long-boat, and run
their chance of reaching the shore. Williams and Stromer provided themselves with cords in
order to bind the captain, and also with weapons to knock him on the head if he should resist;
but when the time for action arrived, the hearts of their associates failed them, and the project
was abandoned.

Williams reproached his shipmates for their cowardice. They were not lacking in rascality,
but they wanted nerve to carry into effect the desperate design of taking possession of the
schooner. Another consultation was held, and it was concluded that the SAFEST proceeding would
be to massacre the officers before they could have an opportunity to make resistance. This
plan was resolved upon, and all the details were carefully arranged, and every man had his
part assigned him in the fearful tragedy which was about to be enacted.

Accordingly about midnight, on the 24th of July, being then but little more than a hundred
miles to the westward of the Straits of Gibraltar, a loud cry was heard from the forecastle,
of "Sail, ho! Right ahead!"

Mr. Yeizer, the mate, rushed forward to obtain a view of the vessel, and on stepping forward
of the windlass, was felled to the deck by a murderous blow from a handspike in the hands of
one of the mutineers. His body was instantly seized upon and thrown overboard. The second mate,
who had just been called, hearing the cry of "a sail," hastened on deck and was going forward,
when he was struck a violent blow, and grappled by Williams, who exclaimed, "Here is one of
the rascals! Overboard with him!" But the captain, alarmed by the cries and trampling on deck,
now made his appearance, and Williams released his grasp on Onion and attacked the captain,
who, unsuspicious of any mutinous intentions, was unarmed. He was summarily disposed of, being
brained by a handspike or heaver, and thrown into the sea. Onion, greatly terrified, escaped
down the companion-way, and concealed himself in the bread locker.

The mutineers now called upon Mr. Baynard, the supercargo, to show himself on deck. He hesitated,
but on being assured that no harm was intended, and threatened with instant death if he did
not make his appearance at once, he passed up the companion-way, and while conversing with
Williams, was mercilessly murdered by Stromer and Rog.

Three of the pirates now entered the cabin in search of the second mate, and the question was
raised whether his life should be spared. After some debate it was determined that he should
not be killed, provided he would take an oath to be faithful to their interests and aid them
in their future proceedings. Onion, on hearing the decision, came out of his hiding-place,
took the prescribed oath of fidelity, and was admitted a member of the fraternity. As some
proper organization for the management of the vessel was considered necessary, Stromer was
chosen captain, Williams's chief mate, and Onion retained his position as second mate.

