BY

THOMAS, ELEVENTH EARL OF DUNDONALD, AND H.R. FOX BOURNE, AUTHOR OF "ENGLISH SEAMEN UNDER THE
TUDORS," ETC. ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES. VOL. I.

  Published 1869.

  TO MISS ANGELA BURDETT COUTTS,
  WHOSE HONOURED FATHER
  WAS THE FIRMEST AND MOST CONSTANT FRIEND AND SUPPORTER
  OF MY FATHER,
  DURING A CAREER DEVOTED TO THE WELFARE OF HIS COUNTRY
  AND THE HONOUR OF HIS PROFESSION,
  AND WHOM IT IS MY HAPPINESS AND PRIVILEGE TO CALL MY FRIEND,
  THIS WORK IS DEDICATED,
  WITH ALL RESPECT AND REGARD,
  BY
  HER ATTACHED AND FAITHFUL SERVANT,

  DUNDONALD.

PREFACE.

In these Volumes is recounted the public life of my late father from the period to which the
narrative was brought down by himself in his unfinished "Autobiography of a Seaman." The completion
of that work was prevented by his death, which occurred almost immediately after the publication
of the Second Volume, eight years and a half ago. I had hoped to supplement it sooner; but
in this hope I have been thwarted.

My father's papers were, at the time of his death, in the hands of a gentleman who had assisted
him in the preparation of his "Autobiography," and to this gentleman was entrusted the completion
of the work. Illness and other occupations, however, interfered, and, after a lapse of about
two years, he died, leaving the papers, of which no use had been made by him, to fall into
the possession of others. Only after long delay and considerable trouble and expense was I
able to recover them and realize my long-cherished purpose.

Further delay in the publication of this book has arisen from my having been compelled, as
my father's executor, to make three long and laborious journeys to Brazil, which have engrossed
much time.

At length, however, I find myself able to pay the debt which I owe both to my father's memory
and to the public, by whom the "Autobiography of a Seaman" was read with so much interest.
At the beginning of last year I placed all the necessary documents in the hands of my friend,
Mr. H.R. Fox Bourne, asking him to handle them with the same zeal of research and impartiality
of judgment which he has shown in his already published works. I have also furnished him with
my own reminiscences of so much of my father's life as was personally known to me; and he has
availed himself of all the help that could be obtained from other sources of information, both
private and public. He has written the book to the best of his ability, and I have done my
utmost to help him in making it as complete and accurate as possible. We hope that the late
Earl of Dundonald's life and character have been all the better delineated in that the work
has grown out of the personal knowledge of his son and the unbiassed judgment of a stranger.

A long time having elapsed since the publication of the "Autobiography of a Seaman," it has
been thought well to give a brief recapitulation of its story in an opening chapter.

The four following chapters recount my father's history during the five years following the
cruel Stock Exchange trial, the subject last treated of in the "Autobiography." It is not strange
that the harsh treatment to which he was subjected should have led him into opposition, in
which there was some violence, which he afterwards condemned, against the Government of the
day. But, if there were circumstances to be regretted in this portion of his career, it shows
almost more plainly than any other with what strength of philanthropy he sought to aid the
poor and the oppressed.

His occupations as Chief Admiral, first of Chili and afterwards of Brazil, were described by
himself in two volumes, entitled, "A Narrative of Services in Chili, Peru, and Brazil." Therefore,
the seven chapters of the present work which describe these episodes have been made as concise
as possible. Only the most memorable circumstances have been dwelt upon, and the details introduced
have been drawn to some extent from documents not included in the volumes referred to.

There was no reason for abridgment in treating of my father's connection with Greece. In the
service of that country he was less able to achieve beneficial results than in Chili and Brazil;
but as, on that ground, he has been frequently traduced by critics and historians, it seemed
especially important to show how his successes were greater than these critics and historians
have represented, and how his failures sprang from the faults of others and from misfortunes
by which he was the chief sufferer. The documents left by him, moreover, afford abundant material
for illustrating an eventful period in modern history. The chapters referring to Greece and
Greek affairs, accordingly, enter with especial fullness into the circumstances of Lord Dundonald's
life at this time, and his connection with contemporary politics.

Eight other chapters recount all that was of most public interest in the thirty years of my
father's life after his return from Greece. Except during a brief period of active service
in his profession, when he had command of the British squadron in North American and West Indian
waters, those thirty years were chiefly spent in efforts--by scientific research, by mechanical
experiment, and by persevering argument--to increase the naval power of his country, and in
efforts no less zealous to secure for himself that full reversal of the wrongful sentence passed
upon him in a former generation, which could only be attained by public restitution of the
official rank and national honours of which he had been deprived.

This restitution was begun by his Majesty King William IV., and completed by our present most
gracious Queen and the Prince Consort. By the kindnesses which he received from these illustrious
persons, my father's later years were cheered; and I can never cease to be profoundly grateful
to my Sovereign, and her revered husband, for the personal interest with which they listened
to my prayer immediately after his death. Through their gracious influence, the same banner
of the Bath that had been taken from him nearly fifty years before, was restored to its place
in Westminster Abbey, and allowed to float over his remains at their time of burial. Thus the
last stain upon my father's memory was wiped out.

DUNDONALD. London, May 24th, 1869.

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER I.

[1775-1814.]

Introduction.--Lord Cochrane's Ancestry.--His First Occupations in the Navy.--His Cruise in
the Speedy and Capture of the Gamo.--His Exploits in the Pallas.--The beginning of his Parliamentary
Life.--His two Elections as Member for Honiton.--His Election for Westminster.--Further Seamanship.--The
Basque Roads Affair.--The Court-Martial on Lord Gambier, and its injurious effects on Lord
Cochrane's Naval Career.--His Parliamentary Occupations.--His Visit to Malta and its Issues.--The
Antecedents and Consequences of the Stock Exchange Trial - 1

CHAPTER II.

[1814.]

The Issue of the Stock Exchange Trial.--Lord Cochrane's Committal to the King's Bench Prison.--The
Debate upon his Case in the House of Commons, and his Speech on that Occasion.--His Expulsion
from the House, and Re-election as Member for Westminster.--The Withdrawal of his Sentence
to the Pillory.--The Removal of his Insignia as a Knight of the Bath - 35

CHAPTER III.

[1814-1815.]

Lord Cochrane's Bearing in the King's Bench Prison.--His Street Lamps.--His Escape, and the
Motives for it.--His Capture in the House of Commons, and subsequent Treatment.--His Confinement
in the Strong Room of the King's Bench Prison.--His Release - 48

CHAPTER IV.

[1815-1816.]

Lord Cochrane's Return to the House of Commons.--His Share in the Refusal of the Duke of Cumberland's
Marriage Pension.--His Charges against Lord Ellenborough, and their Rejection by the House.--His
Popularity.--The Part taken by him in Public Meetings for the Relief of the People.--The London
Tavern Meeting.--His further Prosecution, Trial at Guildford, and subsequent Imprisonment.--The
Payment of his Fines by a Penny Subscription.--The Congratulations of his Westminster Constituents
- 74

CHAPTER V.

[1817-1818.]

The State of Politics in England in 1817 and 1818, and Lord Cochrane's Share in them.--His
Work as a Radical in and out of Parliament.--His futile Efforts to obtain the Prize Money due
for his Services at Basque Roads.--The Holly Hill Siege.--The Preparations for his Enterprise
in South America.--His last Speech in Parliament - 109

CHAPTER VI.

[1810-1817.]

The Antecedents of Lord Cochrane's Employments in South America.--The War of Independence in
the Spanish Colonies.--Mexico.--Venezuela.--Colombia.--Chili.--The first Chilian Insurrection.--The
Carreras and O'Higgins.--The Battle of Rancagua.--O'Higgins's Successes.--The Establishment
of the Chilian Republic.--Lord Cochrane invited to enter the Chilian Service - 137

CHAPTER VII.

[1818-1820.]

Lord Cochrane's Voyage to Chili.--His Reception at Valparaiso and Santiago.--The Disorganization
of the Chilian Fleet.--First Signs of Disaffection.--The Naval Forces of the Chilians and the
Spaniards.--Lord Cochrane's first Expedition to Peru.--His Attack on Callao.--"Drake the Dragon"
and "Cochrane the Devil."--Lord Cochrane's Successes in Overawing the Spaniards, in Treasure-taking,
and in Encouragement of the Peruvians to join in the War of Independence.--His Plan for another
Attack on Callao.--His Difficulties in Equipping the Expedition.--The Failure of the Attempt.--His
Plan for Storming Valdivia.--Its Successful Accomplishment - 148

CHAPTER VIII.

[1820-1822.]

Lord Cochrane's Return to Valparaiso.--His Relations with the Chilian Senate.--The third Expedition
to Peru.--General San Martin.--The Capture of the Esmeralda, and its Issue.--Lord Cochrane's
subsequent Work.--San Martin's Treachery.--His Assumption of the Protectorate of Peru.--His
Base Proposals to Lord Cochrane.--Lord Cochrane's Condemnation of them.--The Troubles of the
Chilian Squadron.--Lord Cochrane's Seizure of Treasure at Ancon, and Employment of it in Paying
his Officers and Men.--His Stay at Guayaquil.--The Advantages of Free Trade.--Lord Cochrane's
Cruise along the Mexican Coast in Search of the remaining Spanish Frigates.--Their Annexation
by Peru.--Lord Cochrane's last Visit to Callao - 177

CHAPTER IX.

[1822-1823.]

Lord Cochrane's Return to Valparaiso,--The Conduct of the Chilian Government towards him.--His
Resignation of Chilian Employment, and Acceptance of Employment under the Emperor of Brazil.--His
subsequent Correspondence with the Government of Chili.--The Results of his Chilian Service. - 208

CHAPTER X.

[1823.]

The Antecedents of Brazilian Independence.--Pedro I.'s Accession.--The Internal and External
Troubles of the New Empire.--Lord Cochrane's Invitation to Brazil.--His Arrival at Rio de Janeiro,
and Acceptance of Brazilian Service.--His first Occupations.--The bad condition of the Squadron,
and the consequent Failure of his first Attack on the Portuguese off Bahia.--His Plans for
Improving the Fleet, and their Success.--His Night Visit to Bahia, and the consequent Flight
of the Enemy.--Lord Cochrane's Pursuit of them.--His Visit to Maranham, and Annexation of that
Province and of Para.--His Return to Rio de Janeiro.--The Honours conferred upon him. - 223

CHAPTER XI

[1823-1824.]

The Nature of the Rewards bestowed on Lord Cochrane for his first Services to Brazil.--Pedro
I. and the Portuguese Faction.--Lord Cochrane's Advice to the Emperor.--The Troubles brought
upon him by it.--The Conduct of the Government towards him and the Fleet.--The withholding
of Prize-money and Pay.--Personal Indignities to Lord Cochrane.--An Amusing Episode.--Lord
Cochrane's Threat of Resignation, and its Effect.--Sir James Mackintosh's Allusion to him in
the House of Commons - 246

CHAPTER XII.

[1824-1825.]

The Insurrection in Pernambuco.--Lord Cochrane's Expedition to suppress it.--The Success of
his Work.--His Stay at Maranham.--The Disorganized State of Affairs in that Province.--Lord
Cochrane's efforts to restore Order and good Government.--Their result in further Trouble to
himself.--His Cruise in the Piranga, and Return to England.--His Treatment there.--His Retirement
from Brazilian Service.--His Letter to the Emperor Pedro I.--The End of his South American
Employments - 266

CHAPTER XIII.

[1820-1825.]

The Greek Revolution and its Antecedents.--The Modern Greeks.--The Friendly Society.--Sultan
Mahmud and Ali Pasha's Rebellion.--The Beginning of the Greek Insurrection.--Count John Capodistrias.--Prince
Alexander Hypsilantes.--The Revolution in the Morca.--Theodore Kolokotrones.--The Revolution
in the Islands.--The Greek Navy and its Character.--The Excesses of the Greeks.--Their bad
Government.--Prince Alexander Mavrocordatos.--The Progress of the Revolution.--The Spoliation
of Chios.--English Philhellenes; Thomas Gordon, Frank Abney Hastings, Lord Byron.--The first
Greek Loan, and the bad uses to which it was put.--Reverses of the Greeks.--Ibrahim and his
Successes.--Mavrocordatos's Letter to Lord Cochrane - 286

CHAPTER XIV.

[1825-1826.]

Lord Cochrane's Dismissal from Brazilian Service, and his Acceptance of Employment as Chief
Admiral of the Greeks.--The Greek Committee and the Greek Deputies in London.--The Terms of
Lord Cochrane's Agreement, and the consequent Preparations.--His Visit to Scotland.--Sir Walter
Scott's Verses on Lady Cochrane.--Lord Cochrane's forced Retirement to Boulogne, and thence
to Brussels.--The Delays in fitting out the Greek Armament.--Captain Hastings, Mr. Hobhouse,
and Sir Francis Burdett.--Captain Hastings's Memoir on the Greek Leaders and their Characters.--The
first Consequences of Lord Cochrane's new Enterprise.--The Duke of Wellington's Message to
Lord Cochrane.--The Greek Deputies' Proposal to Lord Cochrane and his Answer.--The Final Arrangements
for his Departure.--The Messiah of the Greeks. - 318

CHAPTER XV.

[1826-1827.]

Lord Cochrane's Departure for Greece.--His Visit to London and Voyage to the Mediterranean.--His
Stay at Messina, and afterwards at Marseilles.--The Delays in Completing the Steamships, and
the consequent Injury to the Greek Cause, and serious Embarrassment to Lord Cochrane.--His
Correspondence with Messrs. J. and S. Ricardo.--His Letter to the Greek Government.--Chevalíer
Eynard, and the Continental Philhellenes.--Lord Cochrane's Final Departure and Arrival in Greece.
- 355

CHAPTER XVI.

[1826-1827.]

The Progress of Affairs in Greece.--The Siege of Missolonghi.--Its Fall.--The Bad Government
and Mismanagement of the Greeks.--General Ponsonby's Account of them.--The Effect of Lord Cochrane's
Promised Assistance.--The Fears of the Turks, as shown in their Correspondence with Mr. Canning.--The
Arrival of Captain Hastings in Greece, with the Karteria.--His Opinion of Greek Captains and
Sailors.--The Frigate Hellas,--Letters to Lord Cochrane from Admiral Miaoulis and the Governing
Commission of Greece. - 368

APPENDIX.

       *       *       *       *       *

I. (Page 22.)--"Resumé of the Services of the late Earl of Dundonald, none of which have been
Requited or Officially Recognised," by Thomas, Eleventh Earl of Dundonald. - 389

II. (Page 23.)--Part of a Speech delivered by Lord Cochrane in the House of Commons, on the
11th of May, 1809, on Naval Abuses. - 397

III. (Page 258.)--A Letter written by Lord Cochrane to the Secretary of State of Brazil on
the 3rd of May, 1824. - 400

THE LIFE

OF

THOMAS, TENTH EARL OF DUNDONALD.

[1775-1814.]

Thomas, Loud Cochrane, tenth Earl of Dundonald, was born at Annsfield, in Lanark, on the 14th
of December, 1775, and died in London on the 31st of October, 1860. Shortly before his death
he wrote two volumes, styled "The Autobiography of a Seaman," which set forth his history down
to 1814, the fortieth year of his age. To those volumes the present work, recounting his career
during the ensuing six-and-forty years, is intended to serve as a sequel. Before entering upon
the later narrative, however, it will be necessary briefly to recapitulate the incidents that
have been already detailed.

The Earl of Dundonald was descended from a long line of knights and barons, chiefly resident
in Renfrew and Ayr, many of whom were men of mark in Scottish history during the thirteenth
and following centuries. Robert Cochran was the especial favourite and foremost counsellor
of James III., who made him Earl of Mar; but the favours heaped upon him, and perhaps a certain
arrogance in the use of those favours, led to so much opposition from his peers and rivals
that he was assassinated by them in 1480.[A]

[Footnote A: Pinkerton, the historian, gives some curious details, illustrating not only Robert
Cochran's character, but also the condition of government and society in Scotland four centuries
ago. "The Scottish army," he says, "amounting to about fifty thousand, had crowded to the royal
banner at Burrough Muir, near Edinburgh, whence they marched to Soutray and to Lauder, at which
place they encamped between the church and the village. Cochran, Earl of Mar, conducted the
artillery. On the morning after their arrival at Lauder, the peers assembled in a secret council,
in the church, and deliberated upon their designs of revenge.... Cochran, ignorant of their
designs, left the royal presence to proceed to the council. The earl was attended by three
hundred men, armed with light battle-axes, and distinguished by his livery of white with black
fillets. He was clothed in a riding cloak of black velvet, and wore a large chain of gold around
his neck; his horn of the chase, or of battle, was adorned with gold and precious stones, and
his helmet, overlaid with the same valuable metal, was borne before him. Approaching the door
of the church, he commanded an attendant to knock with authority; and Sir Robert Douglas, of
Lochleven, who guarded the passage, inquiring the name, was answered, 'Tis I, the Earl of Mar.'
Cochran and some of his friends were admitted. Angus advanced to him, and pulling the gold
chain from his neck, said, 'A rope will become thee better,' while Douglas of Lochleven seized
his hunting-horn, declaring that he had been too long a hunter of mischief. Rather astonished
than alarmed, Cochran said, 'My lords, is it jest or earnest?' To which it was replied, 'It
is good earnest, and so thou shalt find it; for thou and thy accomplices have too long abused
our prince's favour. But no longer expect such advantage, for thou and thy followers shall
now reap the deserved reward.' Having secured Mar, the lords despatched some men-at-arms to
the king's pavilion, conducted by two or three moderate leaders, who amused James, while their
followers seized the favourites. Sir William Roger and others were instantly hanged over the
bridge at Lauder. Cochran was now brought out, his hands bound with a rope, and thus conducted
to the bridge, and hanged above his fellows."] Later scions of the family prospered, and in
1641, Sir William Cochrane was raised to the peerage, as Lord Cochrane of Cowden, by Charles
I. For his adherence to the royal cause this nobleman was fined 5000l. by the Long Parliament
in 1654; and, in recompense for his loyalty, he was made first Earl of Dundonald by Charles
II. in 1669. His successors were faithful to the Stuarts, and thereby they suffered heavily.
Archibald, the ninth Earl, inheriting a patrimony much reduced by the loyalty and zeal of his
ancestors, spent it all in the scientific pursuits to which he devoted himself, and in which
he was the friendly rival of Watt, Priestley, Cavendish, and other leading chemists and mechanicians
of two or three generations ago. His eldest son, heir to little more than a famous name and
a chivalrous and enterprising disposition, had to fight his own way in the world.

Lord Cochrane--as the subject of these memoirs was styled in courtesy until his accession to
the peerage in 1831--was intended by his father for the army, in which he received a captain's
commission. But his own predilections were in favour of a seaman's life, and accordingly, after
brief schooling, he joined the Hind, as a midshipman, in June, 1793, when he was nearly eighteen
years of age.

During the next seven years he learnt his craft in various ships and seas, being helped in
many ways by his uncle, the Hon. Alexander Cochrane, but profiting most by his own ready wit
and hearty love of his profession. Having been promoted to the rank of lieutenant in 1794,
he was made commander of the Speedy early in 1800. This little sloop, not larger than a coasting
brig, but crowded with eighty-four men and six officers, seemed to be intended only for playing
at war. Her whole armament consisted of fourteen 4-pounders. When her new commander tried to
add to these a couple of 12-pounders, the deck proved too small and the timbers too weak for
them, and they had to be returned. So Lilliputian was his cabin, that, to shave himself, Lord
Cochrane was obliged to thrust his head out of the skylight and make a dressing-table of the
quarter-deck.

Yet the Speedy, ably commanded, was quite large enough to be of good service. Cruising in her
along the Spanish coast, Lord Cochrane succeeded in capturing many gunboats and merchantmen,
and the enemy soon learnt to regard her with especial dread. On one memorable occasion, the
6th of May, 1801, he fell in with the Gamo, a Spanish frigate furnished with six times as many
men as were in the Speedy and with seven times her weight of shot. Lord Cochrane, boldly advancing,
locked his little craft in the enemy's rigging. It was, in miniature, a contest as unequal
as that by which Sir Francis Drake and his fellows overcame the Great Armada of Spain in 1588,
and with like result. The heavy shot of the Gamo riddled the Speedy's sails, but, passing overhead,
did no mischief to her hulk or her men. During an hour there was desperate fighting with small
arms, and twice the Spaniards tried in vain to board their sturdy little foe. Lord Cochrane
then determined to meet them on their own deck, and the daring project was facilitated by one
of the smart expedients in which he was never wanting. Before going into action, "knowing,"
as he said, "that the final struggle would be a desperate one, and calculating on the superstitious
wonder which forms an element in the Spanish character," he had ordered his crew to blacken
their faces; and, "what with this and the excitement of combat, more ferocious-looking objects
could scarcely be imagined." With these men following him he promptly gained the frigate's
deck, and then their strong arms and hideous faces soon frightened the Spaniards into submission.

The senior officer of the Gamo asked for a certificate of his bravery, and received one testifying
that he had conducted himself "like a true Spaniard." To Spain, of course, this was no sarcasm,
and on the strength of the document its holder soon obtained further promotion.

That achievement, which cost only three men's lives, led to consequences greater than could
have been expected. Lord Cochrane, after three months' waiting, received the rank of post captain.
But his desire that the services of Lieutenant Parker, his second in command, should also be
recompensed led to a correspondence with Earl St. Vincent which turned him from a jealous superior
into a bitter enemy. In reply to Lord Cochrane's recommendation, Earl St. Vincent alleged that
"it was unusual to promote two officers for such a service,--besides which the small number
of men killed on board the Speedy did not warrant the application." Lord Cochrane answered,
with incautious honesty, that "his lordship's reasons for not promoting Lieutenant Parker,
because there were only three men killed on board the Speedy, were in opposition to his lordship's
own promotion to an earldom, as well as that of his flag-captain to knighthood, and his other
officers to increased rank and honours; for that, in the battle from which his lordship derived
his title there was only one man killed on board his own flagship." That was language too plain
to be forgiven.

In July, 1801, the Speedy was captured by three French line-of-battle ships, whose senior in
command, Captain Pallière, declined to accept the sword of an officer "who had," as he said,
"for so many hours struggled against impossibility," and asked Lord Cochrane, though a prisoner,
still to wear it. He, however, was refused employment as commander of another ship. Thereupon,
with characteristic energy, he devoted his forced leisure from professional pursuits to a year
of student life at Edinburgh, where, in 1802, Lord Palmerston was his class-fellow under Professor
Dugald Stewart.

This occupation, however, was disturbed by the renewal of war with France in 1803. Lord Cochrane,
though with difficulty, then obtained permission to return to active service, the Arab, one
of the craziest little ships in the navy, being assigned to him. On his representing that she
was too rotten for use off the French coast, he was ordered to employ her in cruising in the
North Sea and protecting the fisheries north-east of the Orkneys, "where," as he said, "no
vessel fished, and consequently there were no fisheries to protect." This ignominious work
lasted for a year. It was brought to a close in December, 1804, soon after the appointment
of Lord Melville, in succession to Earl St. Vincent, as First Lord of the Admiralty.

By him Lord Cochrane was transferred from the Arab to the Pallas, a new and smart frigate of
thirty-two guns, and allowed to use her in a famous cruise of prize-taking among the Azores
and off the coast of Portugal. This was followed in 1806 by farther work in the same frigate,
the closing portion of which was especially memorable. Being off the Basque Roads at the end
of April he fixed his attention upon a frigate, the Minerve, and three brigs, forming an important
part of the French squadron in the Mediterranean. After three weeks' waiting, on the 14th of
May, he saw the frigate and the brigs approaching him, and promptly prepared to attack them.
He was not deterred by knowing that the Minerve alone, carrying forty guns, was far stronger
than the Pallas, which had also to withstand the force of the three brigs, each with sixteen
guns, and to be prepared for the fire of the batteries on the Isle d'Aix. "This morning, when
close to Isle d'Aix, reconnoitring the French squadron," he wrote concisely to his admiral,
"it gave me great joy to find our late opponent, the black frigate, and her companions, the
three brigs, getting under sail. We formed high expectations that the long wished-for opportunity
was at last arrived. The Pallas remained under topsails by the wind to await them. At half-past
eleven a smart point-blank firing commenced on both sides, which was severely felt by the enemy.
The main topsail-yard of one of the brigs was cut through, and the frigate lost her after-sails.
The batteries on I'lsle d'Aix opened on the Pallas, and a cannonade continued, interrupted
on our part only by the necessity we were under to make various tacks to avoid the shoals,
till one o'clock, when our endeavour to gain the wind of the enemy and get between him and
the batteries proved successful. An effectual distance was now chosen. A few broadsides were
poured in. The enemy's fire slackened. I ordered ours to cease, and directed Mr. Sutherland,
the master, to run the frigate on board, with intention effectually to prevent her retreat.
The enemy's side thrust our guns back into the ports. The whole were then discharged. The effect
and crash were dreadful. Their decks were deserted. Three pistol-shots were the unequal return.
With confidence I say that the frigate would have been lost to France, had not the unequal
collision torn away our fore-topmast, jib-boom, fore and maintop-sails, spritsail-yards, bumpkin,
cathead, chainplates, fore-rigging, foresail, and bower anchor, with which last I intended
to hook on; but all proved insufficient. She would yet have been lost to France, had not the
French admiral, seeing his frigate's foreyard gone, her rigging ruined, and the danger she
was in, sent two others to her assistance. The Pallas being a wreck, we came out with what
sail could be set, and his Majesty's sloop the Kingfisher afterwards took us in tow." The exploit
was none the less valiant in that it was partly a failure.

The waiting-times before and after that cruise were occupied by Lord Cochrane with brief commencement
of parliamentary life. Long before this time Lord Cochrane had resolved on entering the House
of Commons, in order to expose the naval abuses which were then rife, and which he had never
been deterred, by consideration of his own interests, from boldly denouncing. He stood for
Honiton in 1805, and was defeated through his refusal to vie with his opponent in the art of
bribery. He contrived, however, to profit by corruption while he punished it. As soon as the
election was over, he gave ten guineas to each of the constituents who had freely voted for
him. The consequence of this was his triumphant return at the new election, which took place
in July, 1806. When his supporters asked for like payment to that made in the previous instance,
it was bluntly refused. "The former gift," said Lord Cochrane, "was for your disinterested
conduct in not taking the bribe of five pounds from the agents of my opponent. For me now to
pay you would be a violation of my principles."

A short cruise in the Basque Roads prevented Lord Cochrane from occupying in the House of Commons
the seat thus won, and in April, 1807, very soon after his return, Parliament was again dissolved.
He then resolved to stand for Westminster, with Sir Francis Burdett for his associate. Both
were returned, and Lord Cochrane held his seat for eleven years. In 1807, however, he had only
time to bring forward two motions respecting sinecures and naval abuses, which issued in violent
but unproductive discussion, when he received orders to join the fleet in the Mediterranean
as captain of the Imperiéuse. Naval employment was grudgingly accorded to him; but it was thought
wiser to give him work abroad than to suffer under his free speech at home.

This employment was marked by many brilliant deeds, which procured for him, on his surrendering
his command of the Imperiéuse after eighteen months' duration, the reproach of having spent
more sails, stores, gunpowder, and shot than had been used by any other captain in the service.

The most brilliant deed of all, one of the most brilliant deeds in the whole naval history
of England, was his well-known exploit in the Basque Roads on the 11th, 12th, and 13th of April,
1809. Much against his will, he was persuaded by Lord Mulgrave, at that time First Lord of
the Admiralty, to bear the responsibility of attacking and attempting to destroy the French
squadron by means of fireships and explosion-vessels. The project was opposed by Lord Gambier,
the Admiral of the Fleet, as being at once "hazardous, if not desperate," and "a horrible and
anti-Christian mode of warfare;" and consequently he gave no hearty co-operation. On Lord Cochrane
devolved the whole duty of preparing for and executing the project. His own words will best
tell the story.

"On the 11th of April," he said, "it blew hard, with a high sea. As all preparations were complete,
I did not consider the state of the weather a justifiable impediment to the attack; so that,
after nightfall, the officers who volunteered to command the fireships were assembled on board
the Caledonia, and supplied with instructions according to the plan previously laid down by
myself. The Impérieuse had proceeded to the edge of the Boyart Shoal, close to which she anchored
with an explosion-vessel made fast to her stern, it being my intention, after firing the one
of which I was about to take charge, to return to her for the other, to be employed as circumstances
might require. At a short distance from the Impérieuse were anchored the frigates Aigle, Unicorn,
and Pallas, for the purpose of receiving the crews of the fireships on their return, as well
as to support the boats of the fleet assembled alongside the Cæsar, to assist the fireships.
The boats of the fleet were not, however, for some reason or other made use of at all.

"Having myself embarked on board the largest explosion-vessel, accompanied by Lieut. Bissel
and a volunteer crew of four men only, we led the way to the attack. The night was dark, and,
as the wind was fair, though blowing hard, we soon neared the estimated position of the advanced
French ships, for it was too dark to discern them. Judging our distance, therefore, as well
as we could, with regard to the time the fuse was calculated to burn, the crew of four men
entered the gig, under the direction of Lieut. Bissel, whilst I kindled the portfires, and
then, descending into the boat, urged the men to pull for their lives, which they did with
a will, though, as wind and sea were strong against us, without making the expected progress.

"To our consternation, the fuses, which had been constructed to burn fifteen minutes, lasted
little more than half that time, when the vessel blew up, filling the air with shells, grenades,
and rockets; whilst the downward and lateral force of the explosion raised a solitary mountain
of water, from the breaking of which in all directions our little boat narrowly escaped being
swamped. The sea was convulsed as by an earthquake, rising, as has been said, in a huge wave,
on whose crest our boat was lifted like a cork, and as suddenly dropped into a vast trough,
out of which as it closed upon us with the rush of a whirlpool, none expected to emerge. In
a few minutes nothing but a heavy rolling sea had to be encountered, all having again become
silence and darkness."

