 Harvey, however, admitted his inability clearly to trace
the "true cause of this remarkable phenomenon," but at the same time suggested that "a taste
for pure geometry, something like that for entomology among the weavers of Spitalfields, may
have been transmitted from father to son; but who was the distinguished individual first to
create it, in the peculiar race of men here adverted to, seems not to be known." However, as
"the two great restorers of ancient geometry, Matthew Stewart and Robert Simson, it may be
observed, lived in Scotland," he asks the important questions:--"Did their proximity encourage
the growth of this spirit? Or were their writings cultivated by some teacher of a village school,
who communicated by a method, which genius of a transcendental order knows so well how to employ,
a taste for these sublime inquiries, so that at length they gradually worked their way to the
anvil and the loom?"

An attentive consideration of these questions in all their bearings has produced in the mind
of the writer a full conviction that we must look to other sources for the revival of the study
of the ancient geometry than either the writings of Stewart or Simson. It has been well observed
by the most eminent geometer of our own times, Professor Davies--whose signature of PEN-AND-INK
(Vol. ii., p. 8.) affords but a flimsy disguise for his well-known propria persona--that "it
was a great mistake for these authors to have written their principal works in the Latin language,
as it has done more than anything else to prevent their study among the only geometers of the
eighteenth century who were competent to understand and value them;" and it is no less singular
than true, as the same writer elsewhere observes, "that whilst Dr. Stewart's writings were
of a kind calculated to render them peculiarly attractive to the non-academic school of English
geometers, they remain to this day less generally known than the writings of any geometer of
these kingdoms." The same remarks, in a slightly qualified form, may be applied to most of
the writings of Simson; for although his edition of Euclid is now the almost universally adopted
text-book of geometry in England, at the time of its first appearance in 1756 it did not differ
so much from existing translations as to attract particular attention by the novelty of its
contents. Moreover, at this time the impulse had already been given and was silently exerting
its influence upon a class of students of whose existence Dr. Simson appears to have been completely
ignorant. In one of his letters to Nourse (Phil. Mag., Sept. 1848, p. 204.) he regrets that
"the taste for the ancient geometry, or indeed any geometry, seems to be quite worn out;" but
had he instituted an examination of those contemporary periodicals either wholly or partially
devoted to mathematics, he would have been furnished with ample reasons for entertaining a
different opinion.

We have every reason to believe that the publication of Newton's Principia had a powerful effect
in diffusing a semi-geometrical taste amongst the academical class of students in this country,
and it is equally certain that this diffusion became much more general, when Motte, in 1729,
published his translation of that admirable work. The nature of the contents of the Principia,
however, precluded the possibility of its being adapted to form the taste of novices in the
study of geometry; it served rather to exhibit the ne plus ultra of the science, and produced
its effect by inducing the student to master the rudimentary treatises thoroughly, in order
to qualify himself for understanding its demonstrations, rather than by providing a series
of models for his imitation. A powerful inducement to the study of pure geometry was therefore
created by the publication of Motte's translation: ordinary students had here a desirable object
to obtain by its careful cultivation, which hitherto had not existed, and hence when Professor
Simpson, of Woolwich, published his Algebra and the Elements of Geometry in 1745 and 1747,
a select reading public had been formed which hailed these excellent works as valuable accessions
to the then scanty means of study. Nor must the labours of Simpson's talented associates, Rollinson
and Turner, be forgotten when sketching the progress of this revival. The pages of the Ladies'
Diary, the Mathematician, and the Mathematical Exercises, of which these gentlemen were severally
editors and contributors, soon began to exhibit a goodly array of geometrical exercises, whilst
their lists of correspondents evince a gradual increase in numbers and ability. The publication
of Stewart's General Theorems and Simson's edition of Euclid, in 1746 and 1756, probably to
some extent assisted the movement; but the most active elements at work were undoubtedly the
mathematical periodicals of the time, aided by such powerful auxiliaries as Simpson's Select
Exercises (1752) and his other treatises previously mentioned. It may further be observed that
up to this period the mere English reader had few, if any means of obtaining access to the
elegant remains of the ancient geometers. Dr. Halley had indeed given his restoration of Apollonius's
De Sectione Rationis and Sectione Spatii in 1706. Dr. Simson had also issued his edition of
the Locis Planis in 1749; but unfortunately the very language in which these valuable works
were written, precluded the possibility of {59} these unlettered students being able to derive
any material advantages from their publication: and hence arises another weighty reason why
Simpson's writings were so eagerly studied, seeing they contained the leading propositions
of some of the most interesting researches of the Alexandrian School.

After the death of Simpson, the Rev. John Lawson, who appears to have inherited no small portion
of the spirit of his predecessors, began to take the lead in geometrical speculations; and
having himself carefully studied the principal writings of the ancient geometers, now formed
the happy project of unfolding these treasures of antiquity to the general reader, by presenting
him with English translations of most of these valuable remains. With this view he published
a translation of Vieta's restoration of Apollonius on Tangencies, in 1764, and to this, in
the second edition of 1771, was added the Treatise on Spherical Tangencies, by Fermat, which
has since been reprinted in the Appendix to the Ladies' Diary for 1840. In 1767 appeared Emerson's
Treatise on Conic Sections; a work which, notwithstanding its manifest defects, contributed
not a little to aid the student in his approaches to the higher geometry, but whose publication
would probably have been rendered unnecessary, had Dr. Simson so far loosened himself from
the trammels of the age, as to have written his own admirable treatise in the English language.
The frequency, however, with which Mr. Emerson's treatise has been quoted, almost up to the
present date, would appear to justify the propriety of including it amongst the means by which
the study of geometry was promoted during the last generation. The success which attended Mr.
Lawson's first experiment induced him to proceed in his career of usefulness by the publication,
in 1772, of the Treatise on Determinate Section; to which was appended an amended restoration
of the same work by Mr. William Wales, the well-known geometer, who attended Captain Cook as
astronomer, in one of his earlier voyages. In 1773 appeared the Synopsis of Data for the Construction
of Triangles, which was followed in 1774 by his valuable Dissertations on the Geometrical Analysis
of the Ancients; and although the author used an unjustifiable freedom with the writings of
others, Dr. Stewart's more especially, it is nevertheless a work which probably did more to
advance the study of the ancient geometry than any other separate treatise which could be named.
As these publications became distributed amongst mathematicians, the Magazines, the Diaries,
and various other periodicals, began to show the results of the activity which had thus been
created; geometrical questions became much more abundant, and a numerous list of contributions
appeared which afford ample proof that their able authors had entered deeply into the spirit
of the ancient geometry. During the year 1777 Mr. Lawson issued the first portion of Dr. Simson's
restoration of Euclid's Porisms, translated from the Opera Reliqua of that distinguished geometer;
and though the work was not continued, sufficient had already been done to furnish the generality
of students with a clue to the real nature of this celebrated enigma of antiquity. The last
of these worthy benefactors to the non-academic geometers of the last century was Mr. Reuben
Burrow, who by publishing in 1779 his Restitution of Apollonius Pergæus on Inclinations gave
publicity to a valuable relic which would otherwise have remained buried in the Latin obscurity
of Dr. Horsley's more elaborate production.

During the greater portion of the time just reviewed, Mr. Jeremiah Ainsworth was resident in
the neighbourhood of Manchester, and so early as 1761 was in correspondence with the editors
of the Mathematical Magazine. He subsequently associated with Mr. George Taylor, a gentleman
of kindred habits, then resident in the immediate vicinity, and these worthy veterans of science,
as time wore on, collected around them a goodly array of pupils and admirers, and hence may
truly be said not only to have laid the foundation of the "Oldham Society," but also to have
been the fathers of the Lancashire school of geometers. Such then was the state of affairs
in the mathematical world at the period of which we are speaking; all the works just enumerated
were attracting the attention of all classes of students by their novelty or elegance; Dr.
Hutton and the Rev. Charles Wildbore had the management of the Diaries, each vieing with the
other in offering inducements for geometrical research; whilst both, in this respect, for a
time, had to contend against the successful competition of Reuben Burrow, the talented editor
of Carnan's Diary: correspondents consequently became numerous and widely extended, each collecting
around him his own select circle of ardent inquirers; and thus it was, to use the words of
Mr. Harvey, and answer the questions proposed, that inquiries which had hitherto been "locked
up in the deep, and to them unapproachable recesses of Plato, Pappus, Apollonius and Euclid
* * porisms and loci, sections of ratio and of space, inclinations and tangencies,--subjects
confined among the ancients to the very greatest minds, (became) familiar to men whose condition
in life was, to say the least, most unpropitious for the successful prosecution of such elevated
and profound pursuits."

The preceding sketch is respectfully submitted as an attempt to answer the queries of PEN-AND-INK,
so far as Lancashire is concerned. It is not improbable that other reasons, equally cogent,
or perhaps corrective of several of the preceding, may be advanced by some of your more learned
correspondents, whose experience and means of reference are superior to my own. Should any
such {60} be induced to offer additions or corrections to what is here attempted, and to extend
the inquiry into other localities, your pages will afford a most desirable medium through which
to compare notes on a very imperfectly understood but most important subject of inquiry.

T. T. WILKINSON.

Burnley, Lancashire, June 5. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES ANSWERED, NO. 8.

Passing over various queries of early date, on which it has been my intention to offer some
suggestions, I have endeuoyred me, as Master Caxton expresses it, to illustrate three subjects
recently mooted.

Trianon (No. 27.).--The origin of this name is thus stated by M. Dolort, in his excellent work
entitled Mes voyages aux environs de Paris, ii. 88.

    "Le grand Trianon.--Appelé au 13^e siècle Triarmun, nom d'une
    ancienne paroisse, qui était divisée en trois villages dépendant du
    diocèse de Chartres. Cette terre, qui appartenait aux moines de
    Sainte-Geneviève, fut achetée par Louis XIV. pour agrandir le parc de
    Versailles, et plus tard il y fit coustruire le château."

Wood paper (No. 32.).--At the close of the last century a patent was granted to Matthias Koops
for the manufacture of paper from straw, wood, &c. In September 1800, he dedicated to the king
a Historical account of the substances which have been used to describe events, in small folio.
The volume is chiefly printed on paper made from straw; the appendix is on paper made from
wood alone. Both descriptions of paper have borne the test of time extremely well. Murray,
in his Practical remarks on modern paper, speaks of Koops and his inventions with much ignorance
and unfairness.

Tobacco in the East (No. 33.).--Relying on the testimony of Juan Fragoso, physician to Felipe
II. of Spain, I venture to assert that tobacco is not indigenous to the East. To the same effect
writes Monardes. Nevertheless, it was cultivated in Java as early as the year 1603. Edmund
Scott, factor for the East India Company at Bantam, thus describes the luxuries of the Javans:--

    "They are very great eaters--and they haue a certaine hearbe called
    bettaile which they vsually have carryed with them wheresoeuer they
    goe, in boxes, or wrapped vp in cloath like a suger loafe: and also a
    nutt called pinange, which are both in operation very hott, and they
    eate them continually to warme them within, and keepe them from the
    fluxe. They doe likewise take much tabacco, and also opium."--An
    exact discovrse etc. of the East Indians, London, 1606. 4^o. Sig. N.
    2.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEANING OF "BAWN."

Bawn (Vol. i, p. 440.) has been explained as "the outer fortification, inclosing the court-yard
of an Irish castle or mansion, and was generally composed of a wall with palisadoes, and sometimes
flankers."

The word bawn or bane (the a pronounced as in the English word hat) is still applied in the
south of Ireland to the spot of ground used as a place for milking the cows of a farm, which,
for obvious reasons, is generally close to the farm-house. Before the practice of housing cattle
became general, every country gentleman's house had its bawn or bane. The necessity for having
such a place well fenced, and indeed fortified, in a country and period when cattle formed
the chief wealth of all parties, and when the country was infested by Creaghadores and Rapparees,
is obvious; and hence the care taken in compelling the "undertakers in Ulster" to have at least
"a good bawn after the Irish fashion." In Munster the word bane or bawn is used to express
land that has been long in grass; tholluff bawn being used to signify grass land about to be
brought into cultivation; and tholluff breagh, or red land, land which has been recently turned.
To redden land is still used to express either to plough land, or, more generally, to turn
land with the spade.

Now the milking field was, and is always kept in grass, and necessarily receiving a good deal
of manure, would usually be white from the growth of daisies and white clover. Hence such a
field would be called the white field: and from this to the general application of the phrase
to grass land the transition is easy and natural. It may be proper to add, that in Kerry, particularly,
the word is pronounced bawn, in speaking Irish; but the same person will call it bane, if mentioning
such land in English. The a in the latter word is, as I said before, pronounced like the a in hat.

The Irish for a cow being bo, the phrase may have had its origin therefrom. On this matter,
as on all relating to Irish antiquities, the readers of "NOTES AND QUERIES" may be glad to
have a sure person to refer to; and they cannot refer to a more accomplished Irish scholar
and antiquarian than "Eugene Curry". His address is, "Royal Irish Academy, Grafton Street, Dublin."

KERRIENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies To Minor Queries.

Births, Marriages, &c., Taxes on (Vol. ii., p. 10.).--The first instance, that I am aware of,
of a tax on marriages in this country, occurs in the 5 of Wm. and Mary, c. 21. The war in which
William engaged soon rendered it necessary to tax other incidents of humanity; and accordingly
the 6 & 7 Wm. III. c. 6. was passed, granting to his Majesty certain {61} rates and duties
upon marriages, births, deaths, and burials, and upon bachelors and widowers (a widely-spread
net), for the term of five years, "for carrying on the war against France with vigour." The
taxes on births, marriages, and burials were continued indefinitely by the 7 & 8 Wm. III. c.
35. I know not when this act was repealed; but by the 23 George III. c. 67., taxes were again
imposed on burials, births, marriages, and christenings; and by 25 George III. c. 75. these
taxes were extended to Dissenters. By the 34 George III. c. 11., the taxes were repealed, and
they ceased on October 1st, 1794. The entries in the parish register noticed by ARUN, refer
to these taxes. Query, Were our ancestors justified in boasting that they were "free-born"
Englishmen as long as one of these taxes existed?

C. ROSS.

M. or N. (Vol. i., p. 415.).--These must, I think, be the initials of some words, and not originating
in a corruption of nom, as suggested. We have in the marriage service:--

  "'I publish the banns of marriage between M. of ---- and N. of ----.'
  "The curate shall say unto the man,
  "M. 'Wilt thou have this woman,' &c.
  "The priest shall say unto the woman,
  "N. 'Wilt thou have this man,' &c.
  "The man says: 'I, M. take thee N. to my wedded wife,' &c.
  "The woman says: 'I, N. take thee M. to my wedded husband,'" &c.
  Again, "Forasmuch as M. and N. have consented together," &c.

All these passages would go to show that the letters are initials either of some word by which
the sex was denoted, or of some very common Christian names of each sex, which were formerly
in use.

I grant that, in the baptismal service, N. may possibly stand for nomen.

THOS. COX.

Preston.

Arabic Numerals.--I am not entitled to question either the learning or the "acumen" of the
Bishop of Rochester; but I am entitled to question the interpretation which E. S. T. tells
us (Vol. ii., p.27.) he puts upon the Castleacre inscription. My title to do so is this:--that
in the year of grace 1084 the Arabic numerals were not only of necessity unknown to the "plaisterers"
of those walls, but even (as far as evidence has been yet adduced) to the most learned of England's
learned men.

As to the regular order in crossing himself, that will entirely depend upon whether the plaister
was considered to be a knight's shield, and the figures the blazonry, or not. Is it not, indeed,
stated in one of your former numbers, that this very inscription was to be read 1408, and not
1048? I have already hinted at the necessity of caution in such cases; and Mr. Wilkinson of
Burnley has given, in a recent number of your work, two exemplifications. The Bishop of Rochester
certainly adds another; though, of course, undesignedly.

T. S. D.

Shooter's Hill, June 7.

Comment. in Apocalypsin (Vol. i., p. 452.).--There was a copy of this volume in the library
of the Duke of Brunswick; and in the hope that Sir F. Madden may succeed in obtaining extracts,
or a sight of it, I intimate just as much, though not in this kingdom. (See Von der Hardt's
Autographa Lutheri et Coætaneorum, tom. iii. 171.) You do not seem to have any copy whatever
brought to your notice. This collection was, it appears from the Centifolium Lutheranum of
Fabricius (p. 484.), bequeathed by the Duke to the library at Helmstad.

NOVUS.

Robert Deverell (Vol. i., p. 469.).--If my information is too scanty to deserve a place among
the Replies, you may treat it as a supplement to Dr. Rimbault's Query. Mr. Deverell also published
(according to Lowndes) A New View of the Classics and Ancient Arts, tending to show the invariable
Connexion with the Sciences, 4to. Lond. 1806; and Discoveries in Hieroglyphics and other Antiquities,
6 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1813,--which was suppressed by the author after a few copies had been sold.
I have the second and third volumes, being all that relates to Shakspeare. They consist of
an edition of Hamlet, Lear, Othello, Merchant of Venice, and the third satire of Horace, copiously
illustrated with notes and woodcuts, intended to prove that in the works in question, in common
with "all the classics and the different specimens of the arts which have come down to us from
the ancients, no part of them is to be understood without supposing that they were mere vehicles
of knowledge, not intended to meet the eye or the understanding on the first inspection or
perusal;" in short, that all the phrases, characters, and incidents are merely allusions to
the appearances of the moon! a representation of which, and of Shakspearian characters, &c.,
bearing supposed resemblance to its lights and shadows, form the staple of the illustrations.
I collect from passages in these volumes, that the first was devoted to a similar illustration
of Hudibras. The whole affair seems to afford indications of insanity. In the Biographical
Dictionary of Living Authors, 8vo., Lond. 1816, I find that in 1802 he was returned to Parliament
by the borough of Saltash, in Cornwall: and from the same authority it also appears that, in
addition to the works above noticed, he was the author of A Guide to the Knowledge of the Ancients,
1803, and A letter to Mr. Whitbread on two Bills pending in Parliament, 8vo. 1807.

J. F. M.

{62} The Hippopotamus.--The Scotch Kilt.--I was on the point of addressing a Minor Query to
you, when No. 33. arrived, and therein I saw a Major Query from L. (p.36.), which prompts an
immediate answer. He asks, "Has there been a live hippopotamus in Europe since the reign of
Commodus?" To be sure there has, and Capitolinus would have set him right. A goodly assemblage
of animals of all sorts was collected by Gordianus Pius, but used by the elder Philip, for
the celebration of the secular games on the 1000th anniversary of the building of Rome, or
A.D. 248. Among them were 32 elephants, 10 tigers, 10 elks, 60 lions, 30 leopards, 10 hyænas,
1 hippopotamus, 1 rhinoceros, 40 wild horses, 20 wild asses, and 10 giraffes, with a vast quantity
of deer, goats, antelopes, and other beasts. "And," it is added in Captain Smyth's Roman Catalogue,
"still further to increase the public hilarity, 2000 gladiators were matched in mortal affray."

The portrait of the hippopotamus exhibited on that splendid occasion is well represented upon
the large brass medals of Otacilia Severa, Philip's wife, and on those of their son, Philip
Junior. That of Otacilia is described at length in Captain Smyth's work.

Now for my Minor Query. Can you, Sir, or any of your intelligent correspondents, oblige me
by saying who introduced the kilt into Scotland and when? However it may wound local prejudice,
I fear our northern brethren will find its use to be much more recent than they seem willing
to be aware of. At present I will not put a rider on the question, by asking, whether an Englishman
first gave it them: but perhaps you, Sir, will sift it thoroughly, even although a whole corps
of rabid MacNicolls should enter the field against you.

[Sigma]

Ashes to Ashes (Vol. ii., p. 22.).--The word is taken from Genesis, xviii. 27.:

    "I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and
    ashes."

It is plain that this has nothing to do with the treatment of the corpse; but that whatever
the exact meaning of the word in Hebrew may be, it is synonymous with dust. As to dust, this
is perfectly plain in Genesis, iii.

Here burial seems to be distinctly meant.

The Latin word cinis, which denotes ashes produced by burning, is derived from the Greek, which
denotes natural dust, I forget whether burnt ashes also.

C. B.

Dr. Maginn's Miscellanies (Vol. i., p. 470.).--Mr. Tucker Hunt (brother of Mr. F. Knight Hunt,
author of The Fourth Estate, a History of Newspapers, &c. &c.) showed me some years since a
collections of these papers from various sources, which he proposed to publish, and which I
was very glad to learn, as I had always regretted that Dr. Maginn had left no memorial of his
splendid talents in a seperate publication, but frittered away his genius in periodicals. As
"J. M. B." appears very anxious to obtain an authentic reference to any article contributed
by the Dr., I think if he could communicate with Mr. Tucker Hunt, it might be of great assistance.
I have not the latter's address, but probably a note to the care of his brother's publisher,
"D. Bogue, Fleet Street", might lead to a communication.

W. H. LAMMIN.

Fulham, June 5. 1850

Living Dog better than a dead Lion.--For an answer to my Query at Vol. i., pp. 352. 371., where
I asked for the authority upon which Baunez gave Homer credit for the expression (which is
evidently none of his), "quod leoni mortuo etiam lepores insultant," a friend has referred
me to Antholog. Græc.. 8vo. Lipsiæ, 1794, tom. iv. p. 112.; out of which you may, perhaps,
think it not too late to insert the following Epigr. xi.

  [Greek: "Hôs apo Hektoros titrôskomenou hupo Hellênôn,]
  [Greek: Ballete nun meta potmon emon demas. hotti kai autai]
  [Greek: Nekrou sôma leontos ephubrizousi lagôoi."]

J. SANSOM.

Gaol Chaplains (Vol. ii., p. 22.) were made universal by act of parliament in the fourth year
of George IV. Before that they may have existed in some places. In Gloucestershire from 1786.

C. B.

Rome Ancient and Modern (Vol. ii., p. 21.)--Such a map as your correspondent A. B. M. describes,
was at Rome in 1827. It was by Vasi. I got it, but never saw it in England.

C. B.

Trianon (Vol. ii., p. 47.).--In justice to myself, and in reply to your correspondent C., who
believes I have "not the slightest authority" for my explanation of the word Trianon, I beg
to refer him to the French dictionaries, in some of which, at all events, he will find it thus
written: Trianon, subst. masc., a pavilion.

J. K. R. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellanies

Aboriginal Chambers near Tilbury (Vol. i., p. 462.).--Mr. Cook, of Abeley, Essex, having seen
this Query, which had been kindly quoted into The Athenæum of the 25th ultimo, communicated
to that journal on Saturday, June 1st, the following information respecting two of these caves,
the result of a personal examination of them:--

