"I have wanted for a little while past to talk to some one, and Hapsie Craydocke would not
do. Everything she knows shines so quickly out of those small kind eyes of hers. Hapsie would
have looked at me in an unspeakable way, and told it all out too soon. I have a secret, Euphrasia,
and it troubleth me; yet not very much for myself; and I know it need not trouble me for anything.
I have a reason that may make me leave this place,--for a time at least; and I am sorry for
Desire, for she will miss me. Frendely can do all that I do, and she hath the same wish for
everything at heart; but then who would help Frendely? She could not get on alone for thee
knows the house is large, and Desire is always very busy, with work that should not be hindered.
Can thee think of any way? I cannot bear that any uncertain, trustless person should come in
here. There hath never been a common servant in this house. Doesn't thee think the Lord hath
some one ready since He makes my place empty? And how shall we go rightly to find out?"

"Tell me first, Rachel, of your own matter. Is it any trouble,--any grief or pain?"

Rachel had quite forgot. The real trouble of it was this perplexity that she had told. The
rest of it--that she knew was all right. She would not call it trouble--that which she simply
had to wait and bear; but that in which she had to do, and knew not just how to "go rightly
about,"--it was that she felt as the disquiet.

She smiled, and laid her hand upon her breast.

"The doctor calls it trouble--trouble here. But it may be helped; and there is a man in Philadelphia
who treats such ailments with great skill. My cousin-in-law, Lydia Froke, will receive me at
her house for this winter, if I will come and try what he can do. Thee sees: I suppose I ought
to go."

"And Desire knows nothing?"

"How could I tell the child, until I saw my way? Now, can thee think?"

Rachel Froke repeated her simple question with an earnestness as if nothing were between them
at this moment but the one thing to care for and provide. She waited for no word of personal
pity or sympathy to come first. She had grown quite used to this fact that she had faced for
herself, and scarcely remembered that it must be a pain to Miss Kirkbright for her sake to hear it.

It was hard even for Miss Kirkbright to feel it at once as a fact, looking in the fair, placid,
smiling face that spoke of neither complaint nor pain nor fear; though a thrill had gone through
her at the first word and gesture which conveyed the terrible perception, and had made her
pale and grave.

"Must it be a servant to do mere servant's work; or could some nice young person, under Frendely's
direction, relieve her of the actual care that you have taken, and keep things in the kitchen
as they are?"

"That is precisely the best thing, if we could be sure," said Rachel.

"Then I think perhaps I came here with an errand straight to you, though I had no knowledge
of it in coming," said Miss Kirkbright.

"That looks like the Lord's leading," said Rachel Froke. "There is always some sign to believe by."

Miss Euphrasia took out Sylvie's letter, as the best way of telling the story, and put it into
Rachel Froke's hand. She did not feel it any breach of confidence to do so. Breach of confidence
is letting strange air in upon a tender matter. The self-same atmosphere, the self-same temperature,--these
do not harm or change anything. It is only widening graciously that which the confidence came
for, to let it touch a heart tuned to the celestial key, ready with the same response of understanding.
There are friends one can trust with one's self so; sure that only by true and inward channels
the word, the thought, shall pass. Gossip--betrayal--sends from hand to hand, from mouth to
mouth; tosses about our sacredness, or the misinterpreted sign of it, on the careless surface.
From heart to heart it may be given without disloyalty. That is the way God Himself works round
for us.

"It is very clear to me," said Rachel Froke, folding up the sheets of the letter, and putting
them back into their envelope. "Shall Desire read this?"

"I think so. It would not be a real thing, unless she understood."

So Desire had the letter to read that day when she came home; and then Rachel Froke told her
how it was that she must go away for a while; and Desire went round to Miss Euphrasia's room
in the twilight, and gave her back her letter, and talked it all over with her; and they two
next day explained the most of it to Hazel. It was not needful that she should know the very
whole about Rachel or the Argenters; only enough was said to make plain the real companionship
that was coming, and the mutual help that it might be; enough of the story to make Hazel cry
out joyfully,--"Why, Desire! Miss Kirkbright! She's another! She belongs!"

CHAPTER XIV.

MAVIS PLACE CHAPEL.

It was on the corner of Merle Street and Mavis Place. The Reverend Hilary Vireo, as I have
told you, was the minister.

It might have been called, if anybody had thought of it, "The Chapel of the New Song." For
it was the very gospel of hope and gladness that Hilary Vireo preached there, and had preached
and lived for twenty years, making lives to sing that would have moaned.

"Haven't you a song in your heart, somewhere?" was his word once, to a man of hard life, who
came to him in a trouble, and telling him of it, passed to a spiritual confidence, such as
Vireo drew out of people without the asking. At the end of his story, the man had said that
"he supposed it was as good as he ought to expect; he hadn't any business to look for better,
and he must just bear it, for this life. He hoped there was something afterwards for them that
could get to it, but he didn't know."

"Aren't you glad of things, sometimes?" said Mr. Vireo. "Of a pleasant day, even,--or a strong,
fresh feeling in the morning? Don't you touch the edge of the great gladness that is in the
world, now and then, in spite of your own little single worries? Well, that's what God means;
and the worry is the interruption. He never means that. There's a great song forever singing,
and we're all parts and notes of it, if we will just let Him put us in tune. What we call trouble
is only his key, that draws our heart-strings truer, and brings them up sweet and even to the
heavenly pitch. Don't mind the strain; believe in the note, every time his finger touches and
sounds it. If you are glad for one minute in the day, that is his minute; the minute He means,
and works for."

The man was a tuner of pianofortes. He went away with that lesson in his heart, to come back
to him repeatedly in his own work, day by day. He had been believing in the twists and stretches;
he began from that moment to believe in the music touches, far apart though they might come.
He lived from a different centre; the growth began to be according to the life.

"It's queer," he said once, long afterward, reminding Mr. Vireo of what he had spoken in the
moment it was given through him, and then forgotten. "A man can put himself a'most where he
pleases. Into a hurt finger or a toothache, till it is all one great pain with him; or outside
of that, into something he cares for, or can do with his well hand, till he gets rid of it
and forgets it. There's generally more comfort than ache, I do suppose, if we didn't live right
in the middle of the ache. But you see, that's the great secret to find out. If ever we do
get it,--complete"--

"Ah, that's the resurrection and the life," said Mr. Vireo.

Among the crowd that waited about the open chapel doors, and through the porches, and upon
the stair-ways, one clear, sunny, October morning, on which the congregation would not gather
quietly to its pews, stood this man, and many another man, and woman, and little child, to
whom a word from Hilary Vireo was a word right out of heaven.

They would all have a first sight of him to-day,--his first Sunday among them after the whole
summer's absence in Europe. He might easily not get into his pulpit at all, but give his gift
in crumbs, all the way along from the street curb-stones to the aisles in the church above,--they
waylaid him so to snatch at it from hand, face, voice, as he should come in. It would not be
altogether unlike Hilary Vireo, if seeing things this way, he stopped right there amongst them,
to deal out heart-cheer and sympathy right and left, face to face, and hand to hand,--the Gospel
appointed for that day.

"What a crowd there'll be in heaven about some people!" said a tall, good-looking man to Hilary
Vireo, in an undertone, as he came up the sidewalk with him into the edge of these waiting groups.

"May be. There'll be some scattering, I fancy, that we don't look for. We shall find all our
centres there," returned Mr. Vireo, hastily, as his people closed about him and the hand-shaking
began.

Christopher Kirkbright made his way to the stairs, as the passage on one side became cleared
by the drifting of the parish over to the western door, by which the minister was entering.
A little way up he found his sister, sitting with a young woman in the deep window ledge at
the turn, whence they could look quietly down and watch the scene. Overhead, the heavy bell
swung out slow, intermitted peals, that thrilled down through all the timbers of the building,
and forth upon the crisp autumn air.

"My brother--Miss Ledwith," said Miss Euphrasia, introducing them.

Desire Ledwith looked up, The intensity that was in her gray eyes turned full into Christopher
Kirkbright's own. It was like the sudden shifting of a lens through which sun-rays were pouring.
She had been so absorbed with watching and thinking, that her face had grown keen and earnest
without her knowing, as it had been always wont to do; only it was different from the old way
in this,--that while the other had been eager, asking, unsatisfied, this was simply deep, intent;
a searching outward, that was answered and fed simultaneously from within and behind; it was
the transmitted light by which the face of Moses shone, standing between the Lord and the people.

She was not beautiful now, any more than she had been as a very young girl, when we first knew
her; in feature, that is, and with mere outward grace; but her earnestness had so shaped for
itself, with its continual, unthwarted flow, a natural and harmonious outlet in brow and eyes;
in every curve by which the face conforms itself to that which genuinely animates it, that
hers was now a countenance truly radiant of life, hope, purpose. The small, thin, clear cut
nose,--the lip corners dropped with untutored simplicity into a rest and decision that were
better than sparkle and smile,--the coolness, the strength, that lay in the very tint and tone
of her complexion,--these were all details of character that had asserted itself. It had changed
utterly one thing; the old knitting and narrowing of the forehead were gone; instead, the eyes
had widened their spaces with a real calm that had grown in her, and their outer curves fell
in lines of largeness and content toward the contour of the cheeks, making an artistic harmony
with them.

It was not a face, so much as a living soul, that turned itself toward Miss Euphrasia's brother,
as Miss Kirkbright spoke his name and Desire's.

For some reason, he found himself walking into the church beside them afterward, thinking oddly
of the etymology of that word,--"introduced."

"Brought within; behind the barriers; made really known. Effie gave me a glimpse of that girl,--her
self. I don't think I was ever so really introduced before."

He did not know at all who Miss Ledwith was; she might have been one of the chapel protégées;
from Hanover or Neighbor Street, or where not; they all looked nice, in their Sunday dress;
those who were helped to dress were made to look as nice as anybody.

Desire Ledwith had on a dark maroon-colored serge, made very simply; bordered, I believe, with
just a little roll binding of velvet around the upper skirt. Any shop-girl might have worn
that; any shop-girl would perhaps have been scarcely satisfied to wear the plain black hat,
with just one curly tip of ostrich feather tucked in where the velvet band was folded together
around it.

Desire sat with her class; it was her family, she said; her church-family, at any rate; she
had chosen her scholars from those who had no parents to come with, and sit by; they were all
glad of their home-place weekly, at her side.

Miss Kirkbright and her brother went into the minister's pew. Miss Kirkbright did not usually
come to the service; the school, in which she taught, met in the afternoon; but this was Mr.
Vireo's first Sunday, and his friend, her brother Christopher, had just come home with him
across the Atlantic.

There was singing, in which nearly every voice joined; there was praying, in which one voice
spoke as to a Presence felt close beside; and all the people felt at least that he felt it,
and that therefore it must be there. They believed in it through him, as we all believe in
it through Christ, who is in the bosom of the Father. That they might some time come where
he stood now, and know as he knew, many of them were simply, carefully, daily striving to "do
the Will."

He spoke to them of "journeyings;" of how God was everywhere in the whole earth; of how Abraham
had the Lord with him, as he travelled up through a land he knew not, as he dwelt in Padan
Aram, as he crossed the desert and came down through the hill-country into Canaan. Of how the
Lord met Jacob at Bethel, when he was on his way through strange places, to go and serve his
uncle Laban; how he went with Joseph into Egypt, and afterwards led out the children of Israel
through forty years of wandering, showing them signs, and comforting them all the way; how
"He leadeth me" is still the believer's song, still the heart-meaning of every human life.

"Whether we go or stay, as to place, we all move on; from our Mondays to our Saturdays; from
one experience to another; and before us and beside us, passes always and abides near that
presence of the Lord. Do you know what 'the Lord' means? It is the bread-giver; the feeder;
the provider of every little thing. That is the name of God when He comes close to humanity.
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth; but the Lord spoke unto Adam; the
Lord appeared unto Abraham; the Lord was the God of Israel.

"God is our Lord; our daily leader; our bread-giver, from meal to meal, from mouthful to mouthful.
The Angel of his Presence saves us continually. And in these latter days, the 'Lord' is 'Christ;'
the human love of Him come down into our souls, to take away our sins,--to give us bread from
heaven to eat; to fulfill in the inward kingdom every type and sign of the old leading; through
need and toil, through strange places, through tedious waitings, through the long wilderness,
and over the river into the Land that is beautiful and very far off."

The four walked away from the church together; they stopped on the corner of Borden Street.
Here Desire and Mr. Vireo would leave them,--their way lying down the hill.

"I liked your doctrine of the Lord," said Miss Euphrasia to the minister. "That is true New
Church interpretation, as I receive it."

"How can any one help seeing it? It shines so through the whole," said Desire.

"Leader and Giver; it is the one revelation of Scripture, from beginning to end," said Mr.
Vireo. "'Come forth into the land that I shall show thee.' 'Follow Me, and I will give unto
you everlasting life.' The same call in the Old Testament and in the New."

"'One Lord, one faith, one baptism,'" repeated Miss Euphrasia.

"Leading--by the hand; giving--morsel by morsel," said Mr. Kirkbright, emphasizing the near
and dear detail.

"That makes me think," said Miss Euphrasia, suddenly. "Desire," she went on, without explaining
why, "we are going up to Brickfield Farms next week, Christopher and I. Why shouldn't you go
too,--and bring her home, you know?"

As true as she lived, Miss Euphrasia hadn't a thought--whatever you may think--of this and
that, or anything, when she said it.

Except the simple fact, that it was beautiful October weather, and that she should like it,
and that Sylvie and Desire would get acquainted.

"It will do you good. You'd better," said Mr. Vireo, kindly.

Christopher Kirkbright said nothing, of course. There was nothing for him to say. He did not
think very much. He only had a passing feeling that it would be pleasant to see this grave-faced
girl again, and to understand her, perhaps, a little.

CHAPTER XV.

BONNY BOWLS.

The great show house at Pomantic was almost finished. The architect's and builder's cares were
over. There was a stained glass window to go in upon the high second landing of the splendid
carved oak staircase, through which gold and rose and purple light should pour down upon the
panels of the soft-tinted walls and the rich inlaying of the floors. There was a little polishing
of walnut work and oiling of dark pine in kitchen and laundry, and the fastening on of a few
silver knobs and faucets here and there, up-stairs, remaining to be done; then it would be
ready for the upholsterer.

Mr. Newrich had builded better than he thought; thanks to the delicate taste and the genius
of his architect, and the careful skill of his contractor. He was proud of his elegant mansion,
and fancied that it expressed himself, and the glory that his life had grown to.

Frank Sunderline knew that it expressed him-self; for he had put himself--his hope, his ambition,
his sense of right and fitness--into every stroke and line. Now that it was done, it was more
his than the man's who paid the bills,--"out of his waistcoat pocket," as he exultingly said
to his wife. The designer and the builder had paid for it out of brain and heart and will,
and were the real men who had got a new creation and possession of their own, though they should
turn their backs upon their finished labor, and never go within the walls again.

It was a kind of a Sunday feeling with which Frank Sunderline was glad, though it was the middle
of the week. The sense of accomplishment is the Sunday feeling. It is the very feeling in which
God Himself rested; and out of his own joy, bade all his sons rest likewise in their turn,
every time that they should end a six days' toil.

Frank Sunderline had been in Boston all the afternoon, making up accounts and papers with his
employer. He came round to Pilgrim Street to tea.

He had got into a way of coming in to tell the Ingrahams the story of his work as it went on,
at the same time that he continued his friendly relation with their own affairs, as always
ready to do any little turn for them in which a man could be of service. This Sunday rest of
his,--though a busier day had not gone over his head since the week began,--must be shared
and crowned by them.

There is no subtler test of an unspoken--perhaps an unexamined--relation of a man with his
women friends, than this instinctive turning with his Sabbath content and rest to the companionship
he feels himself most moved to when it is in his heart. All custom, however homely, grows out
of some reality, more than out of any mere convenience; this is why the Sunday coming of the
country lover means so much more than his common comings, and sets an established seal upon
them all.

Walking down Roulstone Street, the lowering afternoon sun full in his face across the open
squares, Frank Sunderline thought how pleasant it would be to have Ray Ingraham go out to Pomantic
such an afternoon as this, and see what he had done; just now, while it was still his work,
warm from his hand, and before it was shut away from her and him by the Newrich carpets and
curtains and china and servants going in and fastening the doors upon them.

He would make a treat of it,--a holiday,--if she would go; he would come and take her with
a horse and buggy. He would not ask her to go with him in the cars and be stared at.

He had never thought of asking her to go to ride, or of showing her any set "attention" before.
Frank Sunderline was not one of the young fellows who begin, and begin in a hurry, at that end.

He walked faster, as it came into his head at that moment; something of the same perception
that would come to her,--if she cared for this asking of his,--came to him with the sudden
suggestion that it was the next, the natural thing to do; that their friendship had grown so
far as that. The story comes to a man with some such beautiful, scarce-anticipated steps of
revelation as it does to a woman, when he takes his life in the true, whole, patient order,
and does not go about to make some pretty sham of living before he has done any real living at all.

Yes; he would ask her to ride out to Pomantic with him to-morrow; and he thought she would go.

He liked her looks, to-night; he looked at her with this plan in his thoughts, and it lighted
her up; he was conscious of his own notice of her, and of what it had grown to in him, insensibly,
knowing her so well and long. He analyzed, or tried to analyze, his rest and pleasure in her;
the reason why all she did and wore and said had such a sweet and winning fitness to him. What
was it that made her look so different from other girls, and yet so nice?

"I like the way you dress, Ray; you and Dot;" he said to her, when tea was over and taken away,
and she was replacing the cloth and setting the sewing-lamp down upon the table. "You don't
snarl yourselves up. I can't bear a tangle of things."

Ray colored.

"You mean skirts, I suppose," she said, laughing "We can't afford two apiece, at a time. So
we have taken to aprons."

It was a very simple expedient, and yet it came near enough to custom to avoid a strait and
insufficient look. They wore plain black cashmere dresses, plaited in at the waist, and belted
to their pretty figures, over these, round, full aprons, tied behind with broad, hemmed bows.
They were of cross-barred muslin, for every day,--cheap and pretty and fresh; black silk ones
replaced them upon serious occasions. This was their house wear; in the street they contented
themselves with their plain basquines; and I think if anybody missed the bunches and festoons,
it was only as Frank Sunderline said, with an unexplained impression of the absence of a "snarl."

"There's one thing certin," put in Mrs. Ingraham. "Women can't be dolls and live women too.
I don't ever want anything on that'll hender me from goin' right into whatever there is to
be gone into. It's cloe's that makes all the diffikelty nowadays. Young women can't do housework
because of their cloe's; 'tisn't because they ain't as strong as their grandmothers; their
grandmothers didn't try to wear a load and move one too. Folks that live a little nicer than
common, and keep girls, don't have more than five hours to their day; the rest of the time,
they're dressed up; and that means tied up. They can't see to their girls; they grow helplesser
all the time and the help grows sozzlier; and so it comes to sauciness and upstrupperousness,
and changes; and there's an up-stairs and a down-stairs to every house, and no home anywhere.
That's how it is, and how it must be, till women take down some of their furbelows and live
real, and keep house, and take old-fashioned comfort in it. Why, the help has to get into their
humpty-dumpties by three or four o'clock, and see their company. If there's sickness or anything,
that they can't, they're up a tree and off. I've known of folks breakin' up and goin' to board,
because they were afraid of sickness; they knew their girls would clear right out if there
was gruel to make and waitin' up and down to do. There ain't much left to depend on but hotels
and hospitals. Home is too big a worry. And I do believe, my soul, its cloe's that's at the
bottom of it. It's been growin' wuss and wuss ever since tight waists and holler biasses came
in, and that's five and twenty years ago."

Mrs. Ingraham grew more Yankee in her dialect,--as the Scotch grow more Scotch,--with warming
up to the subject.

Sunderline laughed.

"Well, I must go," he said; "though you do look so bright and cosy here. Half past seven's
the last train, and there's a little job at home I promised mother I'd do to-night. I've been
so busy lately that I haven't had any hammer and nails of my own. Ray!"

He had come round behind her chair, where she had seated herself at her sewing.

"It's pleasant out of town these fall days; and I want you to see my house before I give it
over. If I come for you to-morrow, will you ride out with me to Pomantic?"

Ray felt half a dozen things at that moment between his question and her reply. She felt her
mother's eyes just lifted at her, without another movement, over the silver rims of her spectacles;
she felt Dot's utter stillness; she felt her own heart spring with a single quick beat, and
her cheeks grow warm, and a moisture at her fingers' ends as they held work and needle determinedly,
and she set two or three stitches with instinctive resolution of not stopping. She felt, inwardly,
the certainty that this would count for much in Mrs. Ingraham's plain, old-fashioned way of
judging things; she was afraid of a misjudgment for Frank Sunderline, if he did not, perhaps,
mean anything particular by it; she would have refused him ten times over, and let the refusal
rest with her, sooner than have him blamed; for what business had she, after all,--

"Well, Ray?"

She felt his hand upon the back of her chair, close to her shoulder; she felt that he leaned
down a little. She heard something in that "Well, Ray," that she could not turn aside, though
in an hour afterward she would be taking herself to task that she had let it seem like "anything."

"I was thinking," she said, quietly. "Yes, I think I could go. Thank you, Frank."

Frank Sunderline was not sure, as he walked up Roulstone Street afterward, whether Ray cared
much. She made it seem all matter of course, in a minute, with that calm, deliberate answer
of hers. And she sat so still, and let him go out of the room with hardly another word or look.
She never stopped sewing, either.

Well,--he did not see those ten stitches! He might not have been the wiser if he had. They
were not carpenter-work.

But Ray knew better than to pick them out, while her mother and Dot were by.

That next day was made for them.

Days are made for separate people, though they shine or storm over so many. Or the people are
drifted into the right days; what is the difference?

I must stop for the thought here, that has to do with this question of rain and shine,--with
need, and asking, and giving.

Prayers and special providences! Are these thrust out of the scheme, because there is a scheme,
and a steadfastness of administration in God's laws? "No use to pray for rain, or the calming
of the storm, or a blessing on the medicine?" When it was all set going, was not the prayer
provided for? It was answered a million of years beforehand, in the heart of God, who put it
into your heart and nature to pray. Long before the want or the sin, the beseeching for help
or for forgiveness was anticipated; provision was made for the undoing or the counteracting
of the evil,--the healing of the wrong,--just as it should be longed for in the needing and
repenting soul. The more law you have, the more all things come under its foresight.

So, under the dear Law,--which is Love, and cares for the sparrow,--came the fair October day,
with its unflecked firmament, its golden, conquering warmth, its richness of scent and color;
and they two went forth in it.

They went early, after dinner; so that the brightness might last them home again; and because
the Newriches, in their afternoon drive, might be coming out from the city, perhaps, a little
later, to look at their waistcoat-pocket plaything.

Mrs. Ingraham turned away from the basement window with a long breath, as they drove off.

"Well, I suppose that's settled," she said, with the mother-sadness, in the midst of the not
wishing it by any means to be otherwise, inflecting her voice.

"I don't believe Ray thinks so," said Dot.

In some of the hundred little indirect ways that girls find the use of, Ray had managed to
really impose this impression upon the sturdy mind of Dot, without discussion. If Dot had had
the least bit of experience of her own, as yet, she would not have been imposed upon. But Mrs.
Ingraham had great reliance on Dorothy's common sense, and she left no lee-way for uninitiation.

"Do you really mean to say, child," she asked, turning round sharply, "that Ray don't suppose,--or
don't want,--or don't intend--? She's a goose if she don't, then; and they're both geese; and
I shouldn't have any patience with 'em! And that's my mind about it!"

It is not such a very beautiful drive straight out to Pomantic over the Roxeter road. There
are more attractive ones in many directions. But no drive out of Boston is destitute of beauty;
and even the long turnpike stretches--they are turnpike stretches still, though the Pike is
turned into an Avenue, and built all along with blocks of little houses, exactly alike, in
those places where used to be the flat, unoccupied intervals between the scattered suburban
residences--have their breaks of hill and orchard and garden, and their glimpses across the
marshes, of the sea.

Ray enjoyed every bit of it,--even the rows of new tenements with their wooden door-steps,
and their disproportionate Mansard roofs that make them all look like the picture in "Mother
Goose," of the boy under a big hat that might be slid down over him and just cover him up.

The rhyme itself came into Ray's head, and she said it to her companion.

          "Little lad, little lad, where were you born?
           Far off in Lancashire, under a thorn,
           Where they sup buttermilk from a ram's horn;
           And a pumpkin scooped, with a yellow rim,
           Is the bonny bowl they breakfast in."

"Those houses make me think of that," she said; "and the picture over it--do you remember?"

Everybody remembers "Mother Goose." You can't quote or remind amiss from her.

"To be sure," Frank answered, laughing. "And the histories and the lives there carry out the
idea. They all came from Lancashire, or somewhere across the big sea, and they were all born
under the thorn, pretty much,--of poverty and pinches. But they sup their buttermilk, and the
bowl is bonny, if it is only a pumpkin rind. Isn't that rhyme just the perfection of the glorifying
of common things by imagination?"

