Now Bob wasn't a favorite. The boys liked to tease him, called him "Little Reb," and he in
turn disliked them, and was ever ready to report their mischievous pranks to the teacher. If
there was anything pleasant about the boy, no one knew it, because no one took the trouble
to find out. Bob did not relish the snow; he was pinched and blue, and whenever he had the
chance was huddling up against the stove; besides, he liked to read, and would rather have
staid in all day with a book of fairy tales than shared the gayest romp they could have suggested.
This afternoon Joe had made so many mistakes in his arithmetic examples that he was obliged
to stay late, and do them over; but he was sorely annoyed and tempted at hearing the shouts
and cries of joy with which the boys saluted each other as they escaped from the school-room,
and he spoke very crossly when a little voice at his elbow said,

"Please may I go home with you?"

"No," said Joe.

"Ah, please!"

Joe turned, and saw that it was Bob. This provoked him still more. "I said no, 'tell-tale.'
What do I want to be bothered with you?"

Bob turned away, disappointed. Joe kept on at his lesson; it was very perplexing, and he was
out of humor. Besides, the fun outside was increasing; he could hear the roars of laughter,
the whiz of the flying snow-balls, and the gleeful crows of the conquering heroes. He was the
only one in the school-room. Presently there was a hush, a sort of premonitory symptom of more
mischief brewing outside, which provoked his curiosity to the utmost.

"Five times ten, divided by three, and-- Oh, I can't stand this," said Joe, as he gave a push
to his slate, and ran to the window.

The boys had gone off to the farthest corner of the vacant lot on which the school-house stood,
and by the appearance of things were preparing to have an animated game of foot-ball; but by
the gestures and general drift of motions Joe saw, to his horror, that poor little Bob was
evidently to be the victim. Already they were rolling him in the snow, and cuffing him about
as if he were made of India rubber, and deserved no better treatment.

Joe's conscience woke up in a minute, for he knew that if he had allowed Bob to wait for him
as he had wanted to do, the boys would not have dared to touch him, and he felt ashamed of
his unkindness and ill humor as he saw the results.

The child was getting fearfully maltreated, as Joe saw, not merely on account of their dislike
for him, but because in their gambols the boys were lost to all sense of the cruelty they were
practicing, and they tossed him about regardless of the fact that his bones could be broken
or his sinews snapped.

Cramming his books in his bag, and snatching up his cap, Joe dashed out of the door. Blinky
was ready for him, and did not know what all this haste meant, but dashed after his master,
as in duty bound.

"I say, fellers, stop that!" he shouted, repeating the "stop that!" as loud as his lungs could
make the exertion. The din was so great that it was some moments before they heard him, but
Blinky barked at their heels, and helped to arrest their attention.

"Stop! what shall we stop for?" asked one of the bigger and rougher ones.

"You are doing a mean, hateful thing--that's why."

"Oho! that's because you haven't a share in it," was the sneering reply.

"If you'll stop, I'll run the gauntlet for you," said Joe. There was a pause. Perhaps that
would be better than foot-ball; besides, Joe never got mad, and little Bob was crying hard.
"Let Bob go home, fair and square, and I'll run," repeated Joe.

"All right," they shouted. "Come on, then."

Joe helped to uncover Bob, shook the snow off his clothes, wiped his eyes with the cuff of
his coat, and sent him on his way. Then the boys formed two lines, each with as many snow-balls
as he could hurriedly make, and Joe prepared for the run. Blinky was furious, and as Joe shouted,
"Fire away!" and started down the line, he barked himself hoarse. Hot and heavy came the balls,
or rather cold and fast they fell on Joe's back and head and school bag. But he was a good
runner, and tore like mad from his pursuers, screaming, as he ran, "Fire away! fire away!"
until he reached a cellar door, where he knew he could take refuge. Here he halted; but Blinky
was in a rage at having his master thus used. Joe did not mind it in the least, and was as
full of fun as he could be. When he got home he found his mother making apple pies; she had
baked one in a saucer for him. It looked delicious, but as he was about to bite it, he said,
"Mother, may I just run over to Mrs. Allen's for a minute?"

"Oh yes," was the reply.

Wrapping up the pie in a napkin, he carried it with him. By the side of the stove, with his
head aching and bound up in a handkerchief, he found poor little Bob. Without a word, he stuffed
the nice little pie in Bob's hands, and then rushed out again.

It is hardly necessary to say that in the future Blinky had a rival, and that rival was Bob.

A SAIL ON THE NILE.

BY SARA KEABLES HUNT.

Did you ever go sailing on the Nile? Come, then, and imagine yourselves, on a clear warm January
day, afloat on the river of which you have so often heard. What a sensation we should create
if we could go sailing up the Hudson some sunny morning, our broad lateen-sail swelling in
the breeze, and the Egyptian flag flying behind!

Let us take a walk over the boat which for two months will be to us a floating home, and to
which we shall become really attached before we leave its deck, and the shores of the Nile.
It is a queerly shaped vessel, entirely different from any other which has ever carried you
over the waters. The length is about seventy-two feet, and the width between fourteen and fifteen
feet at the broadest part; it has a sharp prow, and stands deep in the water forward; it is
flat-bottomed, like all Nile boats, on account of the shallow water in the spring.

Here, a little way from the bow, is the kitchen--a small square place, where the cook holds
undisputed sway, and gratifies your palate with novel and delicious dishes. This little spot
is a very important part of the boat, I assure you, for sailing on the Nile gives you a keen
relish for good dinners.

Somewhat back of here is the mast, rising thirty feet or more, and the long yard, suspended
by ropes, large at the lower part, but tapering toward the extreme point, where floats the
pennant which you have secured for the occasion.

This long yard bears the large triangular lateen-sail, its huge dimensions necessary to catch
the wind when the river is low and the banks high. The sides of the boat are protected by a
low railing not more than six inches in height, over which the sailors can easily step, as
they will have occasion to do many times during the voyage. The main-deck is usually occupied
by the crew, and from here are stairs leading to the quarter-deck, over the cabin and saloon,
where we will take seats under the awning by-and-by, and watch the scenery on the banks of
the river.

Let us go down these few steps leading to the saloon. We find ourselves in a room occupying
the breadth of the boat; there are windows on each side, with long divans, below them, a round
table in the centre, chairs, cupboards, and book-cases completing the furniture. Now let us
open these glass doors, walk along this narrow passage, and take a look at the sleeping-cabins.
They measure six feet by four, half of which is filled by the bed, which gives you girls little
room in which to arrange your toilet; but you will not care to devote many hours to that while
here.

Such is our floating home, and though limited in space, you can be most comfortable if you
have a contented disposition, and a heart and mind to appreciate the wonders around and above you.

And now let us ascend to the quarter-deck. It looks very cheerful, with its centre table loaded
with books and papers, its bright-colored divan and easy-chairs; so we will be seated while
I introduce you to the crew.

There is the reis, or captain--Hassaneen by name--a grave, quiet little old man, standing there
at the bow of the boat, with a long pole in hand, sounding the water now and then, and reporting
the depth. You will always find him there, reserved, thoughtful, his whole attention apparently
fixed on his employment.

Do you see that old gray-bearded man with his hand on the rudder? That is Abdullah, always
there, even when we are at anchor. Then a heap of blue and a gray burnoose in the same place
tell us Abdullah is asleep. We need never fear while that old man is at the helm, for he will
guide us safely by sand-banks and bowlders to the destined port.

Of the remainder of the crew I can not give so good a report. They are a curious assemblage
of one-eyed, forefingerless, toothless men, bare-legged, in robes of dark blue, and gay turbans,
it being a common custom to render themselves thus maimed in order to escape military conscription.
There is Mohammed, a good-natured fellow, ready to do just as his companions do, whether it
be good or bad. There is Said, a cunning, deceitful-looking man, but a good sailor. Just to
the right is Hassan, black as coal, with glittering eyes, a tall form, and tremendous muscle;
he is a faithful fellow, willing to obey to the letter, but without any judgment. There are
Sulieman and Ali, the laziest ones on board, strong as any, but the first to cry out, "Halt,"
and the sleepiest couple on the Nile. There is Yusuf, always at his prayers, and more willing
to pray than work. There is Achmet, watching his chance to run away. Then comes Mustapha, whose
duty it is to clean the decks, scour the knives, and wait on the travellers generally. And
last but not least is little Benessie, called "el wallad" (the boy), who does more work and
takes more steps than all the rest of the crew together. Ah, these boys!--they're worth a dozen
men sometimes. He makes the fires, waits on the crew, and is at everybody's beck and call,
from the howadji to the sailor. He is a dark-eyed, shy little fellow, not particularly neat
in his appearance, and always sucking sugar-cane, which probably is one of the attractions
to the flies that gather continually on his face and eyes.

So there they are--a lazy set of fellows, take them all together; lazy in general when there
is no present labor on hand. I think they work well, though, when a necessity arises. It is
not an Arab's nature to look ahead; he sees only the present.

And now our sail is shaken out--we are off, the American flag floating aloft at the point of
our tapering yard, and we seated in our easy-chairs or reclining on the divan of our decks,
watching the scenery as we glide along. There before us are endless groups of masts and sails.
The western shore is like a rich painting, with its palms and Pyramids, while opposite, half
hidden in shining dark acacias, are palaces of the pashas, with their silent-looking harems
and latticed windows. Cangias (small row-boats) are fastened to the banks, and the moan and
creak of the sakias (water-wheels) tell us we are indeed upon the enchanted Nile.

Behind us rise the shining minarets of the city, and the Pyramids follow us as we go, photographing
their outlines on our memory forever; the soft green plain slopes gently to the river; and
as if stirred to life by the witchery of the surroundings, our bird-like boat flings her great
wings to the breeze, and skims the waters, bounding along, as if with conscious joy, between
the green plains of the Nile Valley.

The river is alive with boats, all bound southward, fine diahbeehs sweeping along, and looking
proudly down on the lesser craft, and huge lumbering country boats laden with grain.

The landscape is not monotonous, though there is a sameness in its character, for the lines
in that crystal air are always changing, and day after day the panorama unrolls, with its fields
of waving tobacco and blossoming cotton, where workers are lazily busy.

We are passing the ruins of ancient cities as we sail onward, or are dragged along by the crew
harnessed together by ropes, which task they call tracking. They never perform this labor reluctantly,
or with any ill temper, but always accompanying their work with a monotonous sing-song in a
slightly nasal twang, till the air is filled with these perpetual sounds of "Allah, haylee
sah. Eiya Mohammed."

We see in this a relic of by-gone days, for the ancient Egyptians are painted on the tombs
accompanying their work with song and clapping of hands.

As we are borne on through and into the creamy light of this glowing atmosphere, where the
sunshine seems to pour into and blend with everything, we can hardly wonder that sun worship
was an instinct of the earliest races, or that the little child believes that the East lies
near the rising sun.

On, on we go, past the ruins of ancient cities, never pausing in the upward journey: it is
only on the return that you visit the places of renown.

There lies Karnac, with its myriads of gigantic columns. Yonder sits Memnon, "beloved of the
morning," which was said to give forth a note of music when the rising sun shone upon it. There
is Luxor, Dendereh, Thebes. Sometimes amid the warm light your thoughts will go away thousands
of miles, where the frosts shiver upon the windows, the snows lie heavy upon the hills, and
warm hearts are praying for the traveller; but the days will creep swiftly by on the Nile,
and too soon will come the hour when, the journey ended, we must leave the river, the palms,
the Pyramids, and bid a long adieu to our pleasant floating home.

THE WHITE BEAR OF THE ARCTIC REGIONS.

The polar bear, the nannook of the Esquimaux, has its home in the desolate and icy wastes which
border the northern seas. It has many characteristics in common with its brothers which live
in warmer countries. It is very sagacious and cunning, sometimes playful, but is not a very
savage beast, and will rarely attack a hunter unless in self-defense, or when driven by hunger
to fall upon everything which comes in its way. Dr. Kane, the great arctic traveller, says
he has himself shot as many as a dozen bears near at hand, and never but once received a charge
in return. The hair of the polar bear is very coarse and thick, and white like the snow-banks
among which it lives. Its favorite food is the seal, which abounds in the northern regions;
it will also eat walrus, but as that animal is very strong, and possesses a pair of formidable
tusks, bears are sometimes beaten in their attempts to capture it. Wonderful stories are told
of bears mounting to the top of high cliffs and pushing heavy stones down upon the head of
some unwary walrus sleeping or sunning himself at the foot, and then rushing down to dispatch
the stunned and bruised animal, but arctic travellers disagree upon this point. A very hungry
bear will sometimes attack a walrus in the water, for the polar bear is a powerful swimmer;
but in his peculiar element--and he is never far from it--the walrus is the best fighter, and
his tough hide serves as an almost impenetrable armor.

As seal hunter the polar bear displays much cunning. It will watch patiently for hours in the
vicinity of a seal hole in the ice, and the instant its prey comes out to bask in the sun,
the sly bear crouches, with its fore-paws doubled up under its body, while with its hind-legs
it slowly and noiselessly pushes and hitches itself along toward the desired game. Does the
seal raise its head to look around, the bear remains motionless, its color making it hardly
distinguishable, until the unsuspecting seal takes another nap. When the bear is near enough,
with a sudden movement it seizes the innocent and defenseless victim, and makes a fat feast.
Unless it is very hungry, it eats little besides the blubber, leaving the rest for the foxes.
It is said that arctic foxes often follow in the path of bears, and gain their entire living
from the refuse of the bear's feast.

The nest of the she-bear is a wonderful illustration of instinct, and a proof of the fact that
a thick wall of snow is an excellent protection against cold. Toward the month of December
the bear selects a spot at the foot of some cliff, where she burrows in the snow, and, remaining
quiet, allows the heavy snow-storms to cover her with drifts. The warmth of her body enlarges
the hole so that she can move herself, and her breath always keeps a small passage open in
the roof of her den. Before retiring to these winter-quarters she eats voraciously, and becomes
enormously fat, so that she is able to exist a long time without food. In this snuggery the
bear remains until some time in March, when she breaks down the walls of her palace, and comes
out to renew her wandering life, with some little white baby bears for her companions, which
have been born during her long seclusion.

Many funny and exciting stories are told by arctic travellers of encounters with bears. During
Dr. Kane's expedition a scouting party who were away from the ship, and sleeping in a tent
on the ice, were awakened by a scratching in the snow outside. On looking out they saw a huge
bear reconnoitring the circuit of the tent. Their fire-arms were stacked on the sledge a short
distance off, as had they been kept inside the tent, the frost from the men's breath would
have clogged them and rendered them useless. There was nothing to be done but to keep quiet,
and hope his bearship would go away. But the bear was bent on discovery, and his big head soon
appeared through the fold of the tent. Volleys of lucifer matches and burning newspapers which
were thrown at him did not disturb him in the least, and he quietly proceeded to make his supper
upon the carcass of a seal. One of the men then cut a hole in the rear of the tent, and crawling
cautiously out, was able to reach the guns, and soon sent a bullet through the body of the
huge beast.

The mother bear's affection for her little ones is so strong that she will lose her life defending
them. Two arctic huntsmen once saw a bear taking a promenade on an ice island with two little
cubs. Chase was given at once, but the bear did not perceive the hunters until they were within
five hundred yards of her. She then stood up on her hind-legs like a dancing bear, gave one
good look at her pursuers, and started to run at full speed over the smooth ice, her cubs close
at her heels. She had the advantage of the hunters, as the feet of the polar bear are thickly
covered with long hair--nature's wise provision to keep the animal from slipping; but the ice
soon broke up into a vast expanse of slush, and here the little cubs stuck fast. The faithful
mother seized first one and then the other, but proceeded with so much difficulty that the
hunters were soon near enough to fire at her. The little ones clung to their mother's dead
body, and it was with great difficulty that the hunters succeeded in dragging them to the camp,
where they stoutly resisted all friendly advances, and bit and struggled, and roared as loud
as they could.

Bears often annoy arctic travellers by breaking open the caches, or store-houses, left along
the line of march for return supplies. Dr. Kane relates that he found one of his caches, which
had been built with heavy rocks laid together with extreme care, entirely destroyed, the bears
apparently having had a grand frolic, rolling about the bread barrels, playing foot-ball with
the heavy iron cases of pemmican, and even gnawing to shreds the American flag which surmounted
the cache.

Roast bear meat is very palatable and welcome food to travellers in the dreary frozen arctic
regions, and at the cry of "Nannook! nannook!" ("A bear! a bear!") from the Esquimaux guides,
both men and dogs start in eager pursuit. The bear being white like the snow, it often escapes
detection, and Dr. Kane mentions approaching what he thought was a heap of somewhat dingy snow,
when he was startled by a "menagerie roar," which sent him running toward the ship, throwing
back his mittens, one at a time, to divert the bear's attention.

Polar bears are sometimes found upon floating ice-cakes a hundred miles from land, having been
caught during some sudden break up of the vast ice-fields of arctic seas, and every year a
dozen or more come drifting down to the northern shores of Iceland, where, ravenous after their
long voyage, they fall furiously upon the herds. Their life on shore, however, is very brief,
as the inhabitants rise in arms and speedily dispatch them.

A NORSK STORY.

On one of the fjords, or bays, which so deeply indent the coast of Norway lived two lads, sons
of well-to-do farmers, who, besides their fields of rye and wheat, their marks, or pasture
fields, and their säters, or hay-making fields, farther away, had also an interest in the fisheries
for which Norway is so famous. The salmon, the herring, and the cod are all caught in great
numbers; so also is the shark, and used for its oil, which passes for cod-liver oil.

The fathers of Lars and Klaus were, however, peasants. They worked on their farms, and above
their green pastures rose lofty mountains clad in fir-trees, dusky pines, mottled beeches,
and silver birches. Klaus and Lars explored together the recesses of these mountains; together
they hunted for bears; together they sailed over the blue waters of the fjord, in and out of
the swift currents, and on and up into the streams fed by the great ice fjelds. They were always
together. If any one wanted Klaus, he asked where Lars had gone; and if one had seen Lars,
he knew Klaus would soon follow. It was their delight to see which could excel the other in
the management of their fishing jagts, those square-sailed slow craft, and for days they would
cruise about the haunts of the eider-duck--not to kill it, for that is forbidden, the bird
being too valuable, but to filch from the sides of its nest the lovely down which the birds
pluck from their own breasts.

They went to school, too, in the winter, and both were confirmed by the village pastor as soon
as they had been well prepared for that solemn rite, which is of so much social as well as
religious importance in their country.

In the short hot summer they helped the fishermen split the cod and spread them on the rocks
to dry, or they made lemming traps and sought to see how many of the hated vermin they could
capture.

In short, their life was active, hardy, and full of keen enjoyment; they were good-natured,
and did not quarrel. Both were tall, finely grown as to muscle, but they would have been handsomer
had they eaten less salt fish and more beef.

In a quaint little house at the foot of the mountains, near where tumbled in snowy foam a beautiful
foss, lived an old woman and her grandchild Ilda. They were really tenants of Klaus's father;
and in their wanderings the boys often stopped for a glass of milk or a slice of fladbröd (oat-cake),
which the old woman was glad to give them. Ilda, too, in her red bodice and white chemisette,
and her pretty, shy ways, was almost as attractive as the birds or beasts they were seeking.
Neither the old woman nor Ilda often left their cottage, and so the boys were the more welcome
for the news they carried.

They were able to give them the latest bit of gossip--how many men were off on the herring
catch; if any strangers had come through the town in their carrioles on their way to the noted
and beautiful Voring Foss and Skjaeggedal Foss (two water-falls of great renown); or who had
the American fever, and were going to emigrate. Or they talked about the ducks and geese of
which Ilda was so proud, and of the pigeons which Klaus had given her when they were wild,
but which had grown tame and lovable under her gentle care. Then the old woman related in turn
many a legend and fable, tales of the saintly King Olaf, or the doings of Odin and Thor.

Thus the days glided by, and the boys became men, and still they were together in their work
as they had been in their play. In the rye fields and the potato patches they toiled side by
side, and in the last nights of summer--the three August nights which they call iron nights,
because of the frosts which sometimes come and blight all the wheat crop--they watched and
waited, hoping for the good luck which did not always come to them; for the soil is a hard
one to cultivate, and many are the trials which farmers have to meet in that bleak land. Soon
after they became of age they were called upon to share the grief of their friend Ilda, whose
grandmother died. After this they did not go so often to the cottage. One bright evening, however,
as Lars was on his way up the mountain, he saw Klaus emerging from the little door beneath
the shed of which they had so often sat. As they met, Klaus turned his face away, remarking,
however, upon the beauty of the evening. Lars thought his friend's manner somewhat strange,
and asked him if Ilda was well. Klaus said she was quite well--was he going to see her?

"Yes," said Lars. "I have some fresh currants from our garden, the only fruit which will grow
in it, and I thought perhaps she might care for them, poor little thing. She is so lonely now!"

Klaus turned off down the road, whistling, while Lars went into the cottage. To his surprise
he found Ilda crying, but supposing that the sight of Klaus had revived recollections which
were painful, some sad thoughts of her grandmother, he tried to soothe her. She shook her head
mournfully at his kind words, and told him that she had just done a cruel thing, that Klaus
had asked her to be his wife, and she had said no to him. This came upon Lars very much like
a thunder-bolt, for he had no idea that Klaus had any such wish; and much as he pitied his
friend, he was not entirely sorry that Ilda had said no. So he asked her why she had refused
to be Klaus's wife, when, with much embarrassment, she told him that she cared more for some
one else.

Lars did not urge her to say any more, but leaving his currants, he followed Klaus down the
mountain.

A few days after this, to the surprise of every one, Klaus bade his friends good-by, and took
passage on the little steamer to Christiansand, from whence he would cross the Skagerrack,
and sailing down the coast of Denmark, past Holland and Belgium, through the English Channel,
he would be on the broad Atlantic, which was to bear him to a new home in the far western land.

Lars was not merely surprised, he was stunned, and thought his friend almost an enemy to go
in that manner without consulting him, without even asking his advice or company. They had
never before been separated. He could not understand it; and when Klaus bade him good-by he
looked into his face as if to seek the reason for this strange conduct, but Klaus gave him
no chance to ask it. He simply grasped his hand in silence, giving it a close clasp, and then
he was off.

