A few days after Miss Marion's arrival at Fairdown (it was just at the hay-making season, and
the earth was very beautiful--birds singing and flowers blooming--soft breezes blowing, and
musical streamlets murmuring rejoicingly in the sunshine), a pedestrian was seen advancing
leisurely up the valley, coming in a direction from the neighbouring town--a distance, however,
of some miles, and the nearest point where the coach stopped. The stranger, aided in his walk
by a stout stick, was a short, thickset, elderly man, clad in brown habiliments from head to
foot: a brown, broad-brimmed beaver, an antiquated brown spencer (a brown wig must not be omitted),
brown gaiters, and brown cloth boots, completed his attire. His linen was spotless and fine,
his countenance rubicund and benevolent; and when he took off his green spectacles, a pair
of the clearest and honestest brown eyes ever set in mortal's head looked you full in the face.
He was a nice, comfortable-looking old gentleman; and so Thomas and I both thought at the same
moment--for Martha was out of the way, and I shewed the apartments for her; the stranger, who
gave his name as Mr Budge, having been directed to our house by the people of the inn where
the coach stopped, who were kin to Martha, and well-disposed, obliging persons.

Mr Budge said he wanted quietness for some weeks, and the recreation of fishing; he had come
from the turmoil of the great city to relax and enjoy himself, and if Thomas Wesley would kindly
consent to receive him as a lodger, he would feel very much obliged. Never did we listen to
so pleasant and obliging a mode of speaking; and when Mr Budge praised the apartments, and
admired the country, the conquest of Thomas's heart was complete. 'Besides,' as Martha sagaciously
remarked, 'it was so much better to have a steady old gentleman like this for a lodger, when
pretty Miss Marion honoured them as a guest.' I thought so too; my dear young lady being so
lone and unprotected by relatives, we all took double care of her.

So Mr Budge engaged the rooms, and speedily arrived to take possession, bringing with him a
spick-and-span new fishing-rod and basket. He did not know much about fishing, but he enjoyed
himself just as thoroughly as if he did; and he laughed so good-humouredly at his own Cockney
blunders, as he called them, that Thomas would have been quite angry had any one else presumed
to indulge a smile at Mr Budge's expense. A pattern lodger in all respects was Mr Budge--deferential
towards Martha and myself, and from the first moment he beheld Miss Marion, regarding her as
a superior being, yet one to be loved by a mortal for all that. Mr Budge was not a particularly
communicative individual himself, though we opined from various observations, that, although
not rich, he was comfortably off: but somehow or other, without appearing in the least inquisitive,
he managed to obtain the minutest information he required. In this way, he learned all the
particulars respecting Miss Marion; and gathered also from me, my own desire of obtaining a
situation, such as I had held at Mr Dacre's, but in a small and well-regulated household. As
to Miss Marion, the kind old gentleman could never shew kindness enough to her; and he watched
the returning roses on her fair cheeks with a solicitude scarcely exceeded by mine. I never
wondered at anybody admiring and loving the sweet, patient girl; but Mr Budge's admiration
and apparent affection so far exceeded the bounds of mere conventional kindness in a stranger,
that sometimes I even smilingly conjectured he had the idea of asking her to become Mrs Budge,
for he was a widower, as he told us, and childless.

Such an idea, however, had never entered Miss Marion's innocent heart; and she, always so grateful
for any little attention, was not likely to receive with coldness those so cordially lavished
on her by her new friend, whom she valued as a truly good man, and not for a polished exterior,
in which Mr Budge was deficient. Nay, so cordial was their intimacy, and so much had Miss Marion
regained health and cheerfulness, that with unwonted sportiveness, on more than one occasion
she actually hid the ponderous brown snuff-box, usually reposing in Mr Budge's capacious pocket,
and only produced it when his distress became real; whereupon he chuckled and laughed, as if
she had performed a mighty clever feat, indulging at the same time, however, in a double pinch.

Some pleasant weeks to us all had thus glided away, and Miss Marion was earnestly consulting
me about her project of governessing, her health being now so restored; and I, for my part,
wanted to execute my plans for obtaining a decent livelihood, as I could not think of burdening
Thomas and Martha any longer, loath as they were for me to leave them. Some pleasant weeks,
I say, had thus glided away, when Mr Budge, with much ceremony and circumlocution, as if he
had deeply pondered the matter, and considered it very weighty and important, made a communication
which materially changed and brightened my prospects. It was to the effect, that an intimate
friend of his, whom he had known, he said, all his life, required the immediate services of
a trustworthy housekeeper, to take the entire responsible charge of his house. 'My friend,'
continued Mr Budge, tapping his snuff-box complacently, his brown eyes twinkling with the pleasure
of doing a kind act, for his green specs were in their well-worn case at his elbow--'My friend
is about my age--a sober chap, you see, Mrs Deborah; 'here a chuckle--'and he has no wife and
no child to take care of him'--here a slight sigh: 'he has lately bought a beautiful estate,
called Sorel Park, and it is there you will live, with nobody to interfere with you, as the
lady-relative who will reside with my friend is a most amiable and admirable young lady; and
I am sure, Mrs Deborah, you will become much attached to her. 'By the by, Mrs Deborah,' he
continued, after pondering for a moment, 'will you do me a favour to use your influence to
prevent Miss Marion from accepting any appointment for the present, as after you are established
at Sorel Park, I think I know of a home that may suit her?'

I do not know which I felt most grateful or delighted for--my own prospects, or my dear Miss
Marion's; though certainly hers were more vague and undefined than mine, for the remuneration
offered for my services was far beyond my expectation, and from Mr Budge's description of Sorel
Park, it seemed to be altogether a place beyond my most sanguine hopes. I said something about
Miss Marion, and my hope that she might be as fortunate as myself; and Mr Budge, I was happy
to see, was quite fervent in his response. 'My friend,' said he, at the close of the interview,
'will not arrive to take possession of Sorel Park until you, Mrs Deborah, have got all things
in order; and as I know that he is anxious for the time to arrive, the sooner you can set out
on your journey thither the better. I also must depart shortly, but I hope to return hither
again.' Important business required Mr Budge's personal attention, and with hurried adieus
to us all, he departed from Fairdown; and in compliance with his request, I set off for Sorel
Park, leaving my beloved Miss Marion to the care of Thomas and Martha for the present.

The owner of this fine place was not as yet known there; for Mr Budge, being a managing man,
had taken everything upon himself, and issued orders with as lordly an air as if there was
nobody in the kingdom above the little brown man. The head-gardener, and some of the other
domestics, informed me they had been engaged by Mr Budge himself, who, I apprehended, made
very free and busy with the concerns of his friend. Sorel Park was a princely domain, and there
was an air of substantial comfort about the dwelling and its appointments, which spoke volumes
of promise as to domestic arrangements in general. I soon found time to write a description
of the place to Miss Marion, for I knew how interested she was in all that concerned her faithful
Deborah; and I anxiously awaited the tidings she had promised to convey--of Mr Budge having
provided as comfortably for her as he had for me. I at length received formal notification
of the day and hour the owner of Sorel Park expected to arrive, accompanied by his female relative.
This was rather earlier than I had been led to expect; but all things being in order for their
reception, I felt glad at their near approach, for I was strangely troubled and nervous to
get this introduction over. I was very anxious, too, about my dear Miss Marion; for I knew
that some weighty reason alone prevented her from answering my letter, though what that reason
could be, it was impossible for me to conjecture.

The momentous day dawned; the hours glided on; and the twilight hour deepened. The superior
servants and myself stood ready to receive the travellers, listening to every sound; and startled,
nevertheless, when the rapid approach of carriage-wheels betokened their close proximity. With
something very like disappointment, for which I accused myself of ingratitude, I beheld Mr
Budge, browner than ever, alight from the chariot, carefully assisting a lady, who seemed in
delicate health, as she was muffled up like a mummy. Mr Budge returned my respectful salutation
most cordially, and said, with a smile, as he bustled forwards to the saloon, where a cheerful
fire blazed brightly on the hearth--for it was a chill evening: 'I've brought your new mistress
home, you see, Mrs Deborah; but you want to know where your new master is--eigh? Well, come
along, and this young lady will tell you all about the old fellow.'

I followed them into the apartment; Mr Budge shut the door; the lady flung aside her veil,
and my own dear, sweet Miss Marion clasped me round the neck, and sobbed hysterically in my arms.

'Tell her, my darling,' said Mr Budge, himself quite husky, and turning away to wipe off a
tear from his ruddy cheek--'tell her, my darling, you're the mistress of Sorel Park; and when
you've made the good soul understand that, tell her we'd like a cup of tea before we talk about
the master.'

'O my dear Miss Marion!' was all I could utter; 'what does this mean? Am I in a dream?' But
it was not a happy dream; for when I had a moment to reflect, my very soul was troubled as
I thought of the sacrifice of all her youthful aspirations, made by that poor, gentle creature,
for the sake of a secure and comfortable home in this stormy world. I could not reconcile myself
to the idea of Mr Budge and Marion as man and wife; and as I learned, ere we retired to rest
that night, I had no occasion to do so. Mr Budge was Miss Marion's paternal uncle, her mother,
Miss Dacre, having married his elder brother. These brothers were of respectable birth, but
inferior to the Dacres; and while the elder never prospered in any undertaking, and finally
died of a broken heart, the younger, toiling in foreign climes, gradually amassed a competency.
On returning to his native land, he found his brother no more, and the orphan girl he had left
behind placed with her mother's relatives.

Mr Budge had a great dread of appearing before these proud patrician people, who had always
openly scorned his deceased brother; and once accidentally encountering them at a public fête,
the contumelious bearing of the young ladies towards the little brown gentleman deterred him
from any nearer approach. No doubt, he argued, his brother's daughter was deeply imbued with
similar principles, and would blush to own a 'Mr Budge' for her uncle! This name he had adopted
as the condition of inheriting a noble fortune unexpectedly bequeathed by a plebeian, but worthy
and industrious relative, only a few years previous to the period when Providence guided his
footsteps to Fairdown Farm and Miss Marion.

The moderate competency Mr Budge had hitherto enjoyed, and which he had toiled hard for, now
augmented to ten times the amount, sorely perplexed and troubled him; and after purchasing
Sorel Park, he had flown from the turmoil of affluence, to seek peace and obscurity for awhile,
under pretext of pursuing the philosophical recreation of angling. How unlike the Misses Dacre
was the fair and gracious creature he encountered at Fairdown! And not a little the dear old
gentleman prided himself on his talents for what he called diplomacy--arranging his plans,
he said, 'just like a book-romance.' After my departure, he returned to Fairdown, and confided
the wonderful tidings to Thomas and Martha Wesley, more cautiously imparting them to Miss Marion,
whose gentle spirits were more easily fluttered by sudden surprise.

For several years, Mr Budge paid an annual visit to Fairdown, when the trout-fishing season
commenced; and many useful and valuable gifts found their way into Thomas's comfortable homestead,
presented by dear Miss Marion. In the course of time, she became the wife of one worthy of
her in every respect--their lovely children often sportively carrying off the ponderous box
of brown rappee, and yet Uncle Budge never frowning.

These darlings cluster round my knees, and one, more demure than the rest, thoughtfully asks:
'Why is Uncle Budge's hair not snowy white, like yours, dear Deb? For Uncle Budge says he is
very old, and that God will soon call him away from us.'

ADVENTURES IN JAPAN.

For above two hundred years, the unknown millions of Japan have been shut up in their own islands,
forbidden, under the severest penalties, either to admit foreigners on their shores, or themselves
to visit any other realm in the world. The Dutch are permitted to send two ships in a year
to the port of Nangasaki, where they are received with the greatest precaution, and subjected
to a surveillance even more degrading than was that formerly endured by the Europeans at Canton.
Any other foreigner whom misfortune or inadvertence may land on their shores, is doomed to
perpetual imprisonment; and even if one of their own people should pass twelve months out of
the country, he is, on his return, kept for life at the capital, and suffered no more to join
his family, or mingle at large in the business or social intercourse of life. In pursuance
of this policy, it is believed that the Japanese government now holds in captivity several
subjects of the United States, and it is expected that an armament will be sent to rescue them
by force.

Since this announcement has been made, and the general expectation has been raised that Japan
will soon have to submit, like China, to surrender its isolation, and enter into relations
with the rest of the civilised world, there has seasonably appeared an English reprint of a
work hitherto little known among us--a personal narrative of a Japanese captivity of two years
and a half, by an officer in the Russian navy.[1] If we may judge from its details, our transatlantic
friends had need to keep all their eyes wide open in dealing with this people.

The leading circumstances connected with Captain Golownin's captivity were the following:--In
the year 1803, the Chamberlain Resanoff was sent by the Emperor Alexander, to endeavour to
open friendly relations with Japan, and sailed from the eastern coasts in a merchant vessel
belonging to the American Company. But receiving a peremptory message of dismissal, and refusal
of all intercourse, he returned to Okhotsk, and died on his way to St Petersburg. Lieutenant
Chwostoff, however, who had commanded the vessel, put to sea again on his own responsibility,
attacked and destroyed several Japanese villages on the Kurile Islands, and carried off some
of the inhabitants. In the year 1811, Captain Golownin, commander of the imperial war-sloop
Diana, lying at Kamtschatka, received orders from head-quarters to make a particular survey
of the southern Kurile Islands, and the coast of Tartary. In pursuance of his instructions,
he was sailing without any flag near the coast of Eetooroop (Staaten), when he was met by some
Russian Kuriles, who informed him that they had been seized, and were still detained prisoners,
on account of the Chwostoff outrage. They persuaded the captain to take one of them on board
as an interpreter, and proceed to Kunashir, to make such explanations as might exonerate the
Russian government in this matter. The Japanese chief of the island further assured the Russians,
that they could obtain a supply of wood, water, and fresh provisions at Kunashir; and he furnished
them with a letter to its governor. The reception of the Diana at Kunashir was, in the first
instance, a vigorous but ineffective discharge of guns from the fortress, the walls of which
were so completely hung with striped cloth, that it was impossible to form any opinion of the
size or strength of the place. After some interchange, however, of allegorical messages, conveyed
by means of drawings floated in empty casks, Golownin was invited on shore by the beckoning
of white fans. Concealing three brace of pistols in his bosom, and leaving a well-armed boat
close to the shore, with orders that the men should watch his movements, and act on his slightest
signal, he ventured on a landing, accompanied by the Kurile Alexei and a common sailor. The
lieutenant-governor soon appeared. He was in complete armour, and attended by two soldiers,
one of whom carried his long spear, and the other his cap or helmet, which was adorned with
a figure of the moon. 'It is scarcely possible,' says the narrator, 'to conceive anything more
ludicrous than the manner in which the governor walked. His eyes were cast down and fixed on
the earth, and his hands pressed closely against his sides, whilst he proceeded at so slow
a pace, that he scarcely moved one foot beyond the other, and kept his feet wide apart. I saluted
him after the European fashion, upon which he raised his left hand to his forehead, and bowed
his whole body towards the ground.'

In the conversation that ensued, the governor expressed his regret that the ignorance of the
Japanese respecting the object of this visit should have occasioned them to fire upon the Diana.
He then closely interrogated the captain as to the course and objects of his voyage, his name,
the name of his emperor, and whether he knew anything of Resanoff. On the first of these heads,
Golownin deemed it prudent to use some deception, and he stated that he was proceeding to St
Petersburg, from the eastern extremity of the Russian Empire; that contrary winds had considerably
lengthened his voyage; and that, being greatly in want of wood and fresh water, he had been
looking on the coasts for a safe harbour where these might be procured, and had been directed
by an officer at Eetooroop to Kunashir. To all the other questions, he returned suitable answers,
which were carefully written down. The conference ended most amicably, and the captain was
invited to smoke tobacco, and partake of some tea, sagi,[2] and caviar. Everything was served
on a separate dish, and presented by a different individual, armed with a poniard and sabre;
and these attendants, instead of going away after handing anything to the guests, remained
standing near, till at length they were surrounded by a formidable circle of armed men. Golownin
would not stoop to betray alarm or distrust, but having brought some French brandy as a present
to the governor, he desired his sailors to draw a bottle, and took this opportunity of repeating
his order, that they should hold themselves in readiness. There appeared, however, no intention
of resorting to violence. When he prepared to depart, the governor presented a flask of sagi,
and some fresh fish, pointing out to him at the same time a net which had been cast to procure
a larger supply. He also gave him a white fan, with which he was to beckon, as a sign of amity,
when he came on shore again. The whole draught of fish was sent on board in the evening.

On the following day, the captain, according to appointment, paid another visit on shore, accompanied
by two officers, Alexei, and four seamen carrying the presents intended for the Japanese. On
this occasion, the former precautions were dispensed with; the boat was hauled up to the shore,
and left with one seaman, while the rest of the party proceeded to the castle. The result was,
that after a renewal of the friendly explanations and entertainments of the preceding day,
the treacherous Japanese threw off the mask, and made prisoners of the whole party.

'The first thing done, was to tie our hands behind our backs, and conduct us into an extensive
but low building, which resembled a barrack, and which was situated opposite to the tent in
the direction of the shore. Here we were placed on our knees, and bound in the cruelest manner
with cords about the thickness of a finger; and as though this were not enough, another binding
of smaller cords followed, which was still more painful. The Japanese are exceedingly expert
at this work; and it would appear that they conform to some precise regulation in binding their
prisoners, for we were all tied exactly in the same manner. There was the same number of knots
and nooses, and all at equal distances, on the cords with which each of us was bound. There
were loops round our breasts and necks; our elbows almost touched each other, and our hands
were firmly bound together. From these fastenings proceeded a long cord, the end of which was
held by a Japanese, and which, on the slightest attempt to escape, required only to be drawn
to make the elbows come in contact with the greatest pain, and to tighten the noose about the
neck to such a degree as almost to produce strangulation. Besides all this, they tied our legs
in two places--above the knees and above the ankles; they then passed ropes from our necks
over the cross-beams of the building, and drew them so tight, that we found it impossible to
move. Their next operation was searching our pockets, out of which they took everything, and
then proceeded very quietly to smoke tobacco. While they were binding us, the lieutenant-governor
shewed himself twice, and pointed to his mouth, to intimate, perhaps, that it was intended
to feed, not to kill us.'

After some hours, the legs and ankles of the prisoners were partially loosed, and preparations
were made for removing them to Matsmai, which seems to be the head-quarters of government for
the Kurile dependencies of Japan. The journey, which occupied above a month, was performed
partly in boats, which were dragged along the shore, and even for miles over the land; and
partly on foot, the captives being marched in file, each led with a cord by a particular conductor,
and having an armed soldier abreast of him. It was evident, however, that whatever was rigorous
in their treatment, was not prompted by personal feelings of barbarity, but by the stringency
of the law, which would have made the guards answerable for their prisoners with their own
lives. They were always addressed with the greatest respect; and, as soon as it was deemed
safe, their hands, which were in a dreadfully lacerated state, were unbound, and surgically
treated; but not till their persons had been again most carefully searched, that no piece of
metal might remain about them, lest they might contrive to destroy themselves. Suicide is,
in Japan, the fashionable mode of terminating a life which cannot be prolonged but in circumstances
of dishonour: to rip up one's own bowels in such a case, wipes away every stain on the character.
The guards of the Russian captives not only used every precaution against this, but carefully
watched over their health and comfort, carrying them over the shallowest pools and streamlets,
lest their feet should be wet, and assiduously beating off the gnats and flies, which would
have been annoying. At every village, crowds of both sexes, young and old, turned out to see
these unfortunate men; but there was nothing like insult or mockery in the demeanour of any--pity
appeared to be the universal feeling: many begged permission from the guards to offer sagi,
comfits, fruits, and other delicacies; and these were presented often with tears of compassion,
as well as gestures of respect.

The prison to which Golownin and his companions were finally committed had been constructed
expressly for their habitation in the town of Matsmai. It was a quadrangular wooden building,
25 paces long, 15 broad, and 12 feet high. Three sides of it were dead-wall, the fourth was
formed of strong spars. Within this structure were two apartments, formed likewise of wooden
spars, so as to resemble cages: one was appropriated to the officers, the other to the sailors
and Alexei. The building was surrounded by a high wall or paling, outside of which were the
kitchen, guard-house, &c., enclosed by another paling. This outer enclosure was patrolled by
common soldiers; but no one was allowed within, except the physician, who visited daily, and
the orderly officers, who looked through the spars every half-hour. Of course, it was rather
a cold lodging; but, as winter advanced, a hole was dug a few feet from each cage, built round
with freestone, and filled with sand, upon which charcoal was afterwards kept burning. Benches
were provided for them to sleep on, and two of the orderlies presented them with bear-skins;
but the native fashion is to lie on a thick, wadded quilt, folded together, and laid on the
floor, which, even in the poorest dwellings, is covered with soft straw-mats. A large wadded
dress, made of silk or cotton, according to the circumstances of the wearer, serves for bed-clothes--which
seem to be quite unknown; and while the poorer classes have only a piece of wood for a pillow,
the richer fasten a cushion on the neat boxes which contain their razors, scissors, pomatum,
tooth-brushes, and other toilet requisites.

But while the comfort of the captives was attended to in many minor matters, there was no relaxation
of the vigilance used to preclude the possibility of self-destruction. They were not allowed
scissors or knife to cut their nails, but were obliged to thrust their hands through the palisades,
to get this office performed for them. When they were indulged with smoking, it was with a
very long pipe held between the spars, and furnished with a wooden ball fixed about the middle,
to prevent its being drawn wholly within the cage.

For weeks together they were brought daily before the bunyo (governor of the town, and probably
lord-lieutenant of all the Japanese Kurile Islands), bound and harnessed like horses as before.
The ostensible object of these examinations, which frequently lasted the whole day, was to
ascertain for what purpose they had come near Japan, and what they knew of Resanoff and Chwostoff--for
a singularly unfortunate combination of circumstances had arisen to give colour to the suspicion,
that some of their party had been connected with that expedition. But for one inquiry connected
with the case, there were fifty that were wholly irrelevant, and prompted by mere curiosity.
The most trivial questions were put several times and in different forms, and every answer
was carefully written down. Golownin was often puzzled, irritated, and quite at the end of
his stock of patience; but that of the interrogators appeared interminable. They said, that
by writing down everything they were told, whether true or false, and comparing the various
statements they received, they were enabled through time to separate truth from fiction, and
the practice was very improving. At the close of almost every examination, the bunyo exhorted
them not to despair, but to offer up prayers to Heaven, and patiently await the emperor's decision.

Presently new work was found for them. An intelligent young man was brought to their prison,
to be taught the Russian language. To this the captain consented, having no confidence in the
Kurile Alexei as an interpreter, and being desirous himself to gain some knowledge of Japanese.
Teske made rapid progress, and soon became a most useful and kindly companion to the captives.
Books, pens, and paper were now allowed them in abundance; and their mode of treatment was
every way improved. But by and by, they were threatened with more pupils; a geometrician and
astronomer from the capital was introduced to them, and would gladly have been instructed in
their mode of taking observations. Other learned men were preparing to follow, and it was now
evident that the intention of the Japanese government was to reconcile them to their lot, and
retain them for the instruction of the nation. Indeed, this appears to be the great secret
of the policy of detaining for life instead of destroying the hapless foreigners that light
on these shores; as the avowed motive for tolerating the commercial visits of the Dutch is,
that they furnish the only news of public events that ever reach Japan. Fearful of becoming
known to other nations for fear of invasion, they are yet greedy of information respecting
them, and many were the foolish questions they asked Golownin about the emperor of Russia,
his dress, habitation, forces, and territories.

Golownin, on his part, endeavoured to elicit all the information he could gain with respect
to the numbers, resources, government, and religion of this singular people. He found it impossible
to ascertain the amount of the population; indeed, it seems it would be very difficult for
the government itself to obtain a census, for millions of the poor live abroad in the streets,
fields, or woods, having no spot which they can call a home. Teske shewed a map of the empire,
having every town and village marked on it; and though on a very large scale, it was thickly
covered. He pointed out on it a desert, which is considered immense, because litters take a
whole day to traverse it, and meet with only one village during the journey. It is perhaps
fifteen miles across. The city of Yedo was usually set down by Europeans as containing 1,000,000
inhabitants; but Golownin was informed, that it had in its principal streets 280,000 houses,
each containing from 30 to 40 persons; besides all the small houses and huts. This would give
in the whole a population of above 10,000,000 souls--about a fourth part of the estimated population
of this country! The incorporated society of the blind alone is affirmed to include 36,000.

The country, though lying under the same latitudes as Spain and Italy, is yet very different
from them in climate. At Matsmai, for instance, which is on the same parallel as Leghorn, snow
falls as abundantly as at St Petersburg, and lies in the valleys from November till April.
Severe frost is uncommon, but cold fogs are exceedingly prevalent. The climate, however, is
uncommonly diversified, and consequently so are the productions, exhibiting in some places
the vegetation of the frigid zone, and in others that of the tropics.

Rice is the staple production of the soil. It is nearly the only article used instead of bread,
and the only one from which strong liquor is distilled, while its straw serves for many domestic
purposes. Besides the radishes already mentioned, there is an extensive cultivation of various
other esculent roots and vegetables. There is no coast without fisheries, and there is no marine
animal that is not used for food, save those which are absolutely poisonous. But an uncommonly
small quantity suffices for each individual. If a Japanese has a handful of rice and a single
mouthful of fish, he makes a savoury dish with roots, herbs, or mollusca, and it suffices for
a day's support.

Japan produces both black and green tea; the former is very inferior, and used only for quenching
thirst; whereas the latter is esteemed a luxury, and is presented to company. The best grows
in the principality of Kioto, where it is carefully cultivated for the use both of the temporal
and spiritual courts. Tobacco, which was first introduced by the European missionaries, has
spread astonishingly, and is so well manufactured, that our author smoked it with a relish
he had never felt for a Havana cigar. The Japanese smokes continually, and sips tea with his
pipe, even rising for it during the night.

All articles of clothing are made of silk or cotton. The former appears to be very abundant,
as rich dresses of it are worn even by the common soldiers on festive days; and it may be seen
on people of all ranks even in poor towns. The fabrics are at least equal to those of China.
The cotton of Japan seems to be of the same kind as that of our West Indian colonies. It furnishes
the ordinary dress of the great mass of the people, and also serves all the other purposes
for which we employ wool, flax, furs, and feathers. The culture of it is, of course, very extensive;
but the fabrics are all coarse: Golownin could hardly make himself believe that his muslin
cravat was of this material. There is some hemp, which is manufactured into cloth for sails,
&c.; but cables and ropes, very inferior to ours, are made from the bark of a tree called kadyz.
This bark likewise supplies materials for thread, lamp-wicks, writing-paper, and the coarse
paper used for pocket-handkerchiefs.

There is no lack of fruit-trees, as the orange, lemon, peach, plum, fig, chestnut, and apple;
but the vine yields only a small, sour grape, perhaps for want of culture. Timber-trees grow
only in the mountainous districts, which are unfit for cultivation. Camphor is produced abundantly
in the south, and large quantities of it are exported by the Dutch and Chinese. The celebrated
varnish of Japan, drawn from a tree called silz, is so plentiful, that it is used for lacquering
the most ordinary utensils. Its natural colour is white, but it assumes any that is given to
it by mixture. The best varnished vessels reflect the face as in a mirror, and hot water may
be poured into them without occasioning the least smell.

The chief domestic animals are horses and oxen for draught; cats and dogs are kept for the
same uses as with us; and swine furnish food to the few sects who eat flesh. Sheep and goats
seem to be quite unknown: the Russian captives had to make drawings of the former, to convey
some idea of the origin of wool.

