On the west side of the square, near Queen Street, stands a very solid mansion, known first
as Powis, then as Newcastle House. The footway in Great Queen Street runs under an arcade on
the north side of this house, which was built by the first Marquis of Powis, created Duke of
Powis by James II., whom he followed into exile, and bought in 1705 by Holles, Duke of Newcastle,
whose nephew, who led the Pelham Administration under George II., inherited it. Further south
on the same side is Lindsey House, a large building with pilasters; this was built by Robert
Bertie, Earl of Lindsey, and was later called Ancaster House. It was described by Hatton as
a handsome building, with six spacious brick piers before it, surmounted by vases and with
ironwork between. Only two of these vases remain. The fleurs-de-lis on the house over the Sardinia
Street entry were put up in compliment to Queen Henrietta Maria, who was the daughter of Henry
IV. of France. The third great house on this side was Portsmouth House, over Portsmouth Place.

The remainder of the houses have the same general character of stuccoed and pilastered uniformity,
broken here and there by uncovered brick surfaces or frontages of stone. They are almost uninterruptedly
occupied by solicitors. This is the oldest side of the square, being that built by Inigo Jones.

At the south corner of the square there is a quaint red-brick, gable-ended house, with a bit
of rusticated woodwork. This is all part of the same block as the Old Curiosity Shop, supposed
to be that described by Dickens.

On the south side rises the Royal College of Surgeons. The central part is carried up a story
and an entresol higher than the wings, and, like the wings, is capped by a balustrade. The
legend, "Ædes Collegii Chirurgorum Anglici--Diplomate Regio Corporate A.D. MDCCC," runs across
the frontage. A massive colonnade of six Ionic columns gives solidity to the basement. The
museum of this college has absorbed the site of the old Duke's Theatre. Its nucleus was John
Hunter's collection, purchased by the college, and first opened in 1813.

This side of the square is outside our present district. (See The Strand, in the same series.)

The origin of the Company of Barber-Surgeons is very ancient, for the two guilds, Barbers and
Surgeons, were incorporated in 1540; but in 1745 they separated, and the Surgeons continued
as a body alone. However, they came to grief in 1790, and the charter establishing the Royal
College of Surgeons of London was granted in 1800; in 1845 the title was changed to that of
the Royal College of Surgeons of England. The present building, however, dates only from 1835,
and is the work of Sir C. Barry. It has since been enlarged and altered.

With this the ancient parish of St. Giles-in-the-Fields ends, but our district includes Lincoln's
Inn, and beyond it the parish of St. Andrew, Holborn, into which we pass.

LINCOLN'S INN.

BY W. J. LOFTIE.

The old brick gateway in Chancery Lane is familiar to most Londoners. It ranks with the stone
gateway of the Hospitallers in Clerkenwell, with the tower of St. James's Palace, and with
the gate of Lambeth Palace, as one of the three or four relics of the Gothic style left in
London. Even Gothic churches are scarce, while specimens of the domestic style are still scarcer.
It need hardly be said that this tower has been constantly threatened, by "restorers" on the
one hand, as well as by open destroyers on the other. It was built while Cardinal Wolsey was
Chancellor, and was still new when Sir Thomas More sat in the hall as his successor. The windows
have been altered, and the groining of the archway has been changed for a flat roof. It is
said that the bricks of which the gate is built were made in the Coney Garth, which much later
remained an open field, but is now New Square. A pillar, said to have been designed by Inigo
Jones, stood in New Square, or, as it was called from a lessee at the beginning of the eighteenth
century, Searle's Court. This ground and the site of the Law Courts formed part of Fickett's
Field, the tilting-place of the Templars. Over the arch of the gate are carved three shields
of arms. In the centre are the fleurs-de-lis and lions of Henry VIII., crowned within the garter.
On the north side are the arms of Sir Thomas Lovell, who was a bencher of the Inn, and who
rebuilt the gate in 1518. At the other side is the shield of Lacy. It was Henry Lacy, third
Earl of Lincoln, who died in 1311, by whom the lawyers are said to have been first established
here. It is certain that soon after his death the house and gardens, which before his time
had belonged in part to the Blackfriars, and which he had obtained on their removal to the
corner of the City since called after them, were in the occupation of a society of students
of the law. An adjoining house and grounds belonged to the Bishops of Chichester: Bishop's
Court and Chichester's Rents are still local names. Richard Sampson, Bishop in 1537, made over
the estate to Suliard, a bencher of the Inn, and his son in 1580 granted it to the lawyers.
The gate is at 76, Chancery Lane, formerly New Street, and later Chancellor's Lane. In Old
Square, the first court we enter, are situated the ancient hall and the chapel, the south side
being occupied by chambers, some of them ancient. The turret in the corner, and one at the
south-western corner, behind the hall, are very like those at St. James's Palace, and probably
date very soon after the gate. Here at No. 13 Thurloe, Oliver Cromwell's Secretary of State,
concealed a large collection of letters, which were discovered long after and have been published.
The hall is low, and cannot be praised for any external architectural features of interest.
The brickwork, which is older by twelve years than that of the gate, is concealed under a coat
of stucco. There are three Gothic windows on each side, and the dimensions are about 70 feet
by 32 feet high. The interior is not much more imposing, but the screen, in richly-carved oak,
set up in 1565, is handsome, and there is a picture by Hogarth of St. Paul before Felix.

Mr. Spilsbury, the librarian, seems to have proved conclusively that the chapel, which stands
at right angles to the old hall, was a new building when it was consecrated in 1623. There
is no direct evidence that it was designed by Inigo Jones; on the other hand, there is a record
in existence which testifies that the Society intended to employ him. John Clarke was the builder.
There was an older chapel in a ruinous condition, which there is reason to believe had been
that of the Bishops, as it was dedicated to St. Richard of Chichester. Mr. Spilsbury quotes
one of the Harleian manuscripts, written in or about 1700, in which Inigo is named as the architect,
and Vertue's engraving of 1751 also mentions him. The chapel is elevated on an open crypt,
which was intended for a cloister. Butler's "Hudibras" speaks of the lawyers as waiting for
customers between "the pillar-rows of Lincoln's Inn." There were three bays, divided by buttresses,
each of which was surmounted by a stone vase, a picturesque but incongruous arrangement, which
was altered in the early days of the Gothic revival, being the first of a series of "restorations"
to which the chapel has been subjected. A more serious offence against taste was the erection
of a fourth bay at the west end, by which the old proportions are lost. It looks worst on the
outside, however, and the fine old windows of glass stained in England, apparently after a
Flemish design, are calculated to disarm criticism. Mr. Spilsbury attributes them to Bernard
and Abraham van Linge, but the glass was made by Hall, of Fetter Lane. The monuments commemorate,
among others, Spencer Perceval, murdered in 1812, and a daughter of Lord Brougham, who died
in 1839, and was buried in the crypt. The office of chaplain was in existence as early as the
reign of Henry VI. The preachership was instituted in 1581, and among those who held the office
were John Donne, afterwards Dean of St. Paul's, who preached the first sermon when the chapel
was new. Herring, another preacher, was made Archbishop of York in 1743, and of Canterbury
in 1747. Another Archbishop of York, William Thomson, was preacher here, and was promoted in
1862. The greatest of the list was, perhaps, Reginald Heber, though he was only here for a
year before he was appointed Bishop of Calcutta.

The garden extends along the east side of Lincoln's Inn Fields, the New Square occupying the
south portion, the new hall and library the middle part, and the west part of Stone Buildings
facing the northern part. A terrace divides them, and there is a gate into the Fields, the
roadway leading north to Great Turnstile and Holborn. North of the Old Buildings and the chapel
is Stone Buildings, in a handsome classical style, with a wing which looks into Chancery Lane
near its Holborn end, and is half concealed by low shop-fronts. The history of the Stone Buildings
is connected with that of the new hall and the library. Hardwick, one of the last of the school
which might be connected with Chambers, the Adams, Payne, and other architects of the English
Renaissance, was employed to complete Stone Buildings, begun by Sir Robert Taylor, before the
end of the eighteenth century. Hardwick was at work in 1843, and his initials and a date, "P.
H., 1843," are on the south gable of the hall. The new Houses of Parliament had just set the
fashion for an attempt to revive the Tudor style, and Hardwick added to it the strong feeling
for proportion which he had imbibed with his classical training. This gable is exceedingly
satisfactory, the architect having given it a dignity wanting in most modern Gothic. It is
of brick, with diagonal fretwork in darker bricks, as in the gate tower. The library had been
removed to the Stone Buildings in 1787 from a small room south of the old hall, and, more accommodation
being required, Hardwick designed a library to adjoin the new hall. The two looked very well,
the hall being of six bays, with a great bow-window at the north end. The interior is embellished
with heraldry in stained glass, carved oak, metal work, and fresco painting. At the north end,
over the daïs, is Mr. G. F. Watts' great picture, "The School of Legislation." The hall is
120 feet long, 45 feet wide, and 62 feet high. The roof of oak is an excellent imitation of
an open timber roof of the fifteenth century, and is carved and gilt. The windows were filled
with heraldry by Willement, and show us the arms of the legal luminaries who have adorned Lincoln's
Inn, many of whom are also represented by busts and painted portraits. The hall is connected
with an ample kitchen, and a series of butteries, pantries, and sculleries of suitable size.

Adjoining the hall, the library and a reading-room, which as first built were calculated to
enhance the dignity of the hall, were soon found to be too small. Sir Gilbert Scott was called
in to add to them. The delicate proportions of Hardwick suffered in the process, the younger
architect having evidently thought more of the details, as was the fashion of his school. The
additions were carried out in 1873, and the library is now 130 feet long, but shuts out a large
part of the view northward through the gardens. It is believed that Ben Jonson worked here
as a bricklayer, and we are told by Fuller that he had a trowel in his hand and a book in his
pocket. Aubrey says his mother had married a bricklayer, and that he was sent to Cambridge
by a bencher who heard him repeating Homer as he worked. Of actual members of eminence, Lincoln's
Inn numbers almost as many as the Inner Temple. Sir Thomas More among these comes first, but
his father, who was a Judge, should be named with him. The handsome Lord Keeper Egerton, ancestor
of so many eminent holders of the Bridgwater title, belonged to Lincoln's Inn during the reign
of Elizabeth. The second Lord Protector, Richard Cromwell, was a student here in 1647, and
Lenthall, his contemporary, was Reader. A little later Sir Matthew Hale, whose father had also
been a member, was of this inn, and became Chief Justice in 1671. The first Earl of Mansfield
was a barrister of Lincoln's Inn, and four or five Lords Chancellor in a row, including Bathurst,
Campbell, St. Leonards, and Brougham.

From the antiquarian or the picturesque point of view Lincoln's Inn is not so fascinating as
the two Temples. It looks rather frowning from Chancery Lane, where it rises against the western
sky. The old hall and the chapel are rather curious than beautiful, and cannot compare with
Middle Temple Hall or the Church of the Knights. The fine buildings which overlook the gardens
and trees of Lincoln's Inn Fields owe much to their open situation. The Stone Buildings where
they look on the green turf of the garden are really magnificent, but they stand back from
the public gaze, and are but seldom seen by the casual visitor.

CHANCERY LANE.

Strype says the Lane "received the name of Chancellor's Lane in the time of Edward I. The way
was so foul and miry that John le Breton, Custos of London, and the Bishop of Chichester, kept
bars with staples across it to prevent carts from passing. The roadway was repaired in the
reign of Edward III., and acquired its present name under his successor, Richard II."

About half of the Lane falls within the district, being in the parish of St. Andrew, Holborn.
In it at the present time there is nothing worthy of remark, except the gateway of Lincoln's
Inn, mentioned elsewhere. Offices, flats, and chambers in the solid modern style rise above
shops. Near the north end is the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit. On the opposite side the old buildings
of Lincoln's Inn frown defiance. Chancery Lane has for long been the chief connection between
the Strand and Holborn, but will soon be superseded by Kingsway further west.

Near the north end are Southampton Buildings, rigidly modern, containing the Birkbeck Bank
and Chambers. They are built on the site once covered by Southampton House, which came to William,
Lord Russell, by his marriage with the daughter and heiress of the last Lord Southampton. It
is difficult to realize now the scene thus described by J. Wykeham Archer: "It was in passing
this house, the scene of his domestic happiness, on his way to the scaffold in Lincoln's Inn
Fields, that the fortitude of the martyr for a moment forsook him; but, overmastering his emotion,
he said, 'The bitterness of death is now past.'"

Cursitor Street was in the eighteenth century noted for its sponging-houses, and many a reference
is made to it in contemporary literature. We are now in the Liberties of the Rolls, a parish
in itself.

The Cursitors' Office was built by Bacon, Lord Keeper of the Great Seal, and adjoined the site
of a palace of the Bishop of Chichester; and this adjoined the Domus Conversorum, or House
of Converts, wherein the rolls of Chancery were kept, now replaced by the magnificent building
of the new Record Office. Southward is Serjeants' Inn--the building still stands; also Clifford's
Inn, once pertaining to the Inner Temple. The hall of Clifford's Inn was converted into a court
for the adjustment of boundaries after the Fire of London.

On the west side of Chancery Lane, a few doors above Fleet Street, Izaak Walton kept a draper's
shop. These details about the southern part of Chancery Lane are mentioned for the sake of
continuity, for they do not come within the Holborn District.

Chancery Lane was the birthplace of Lord Strafford, the residence of Chief Justice Hyde, of
the Lord Keeper Guildford, and of Jacob Tonson.

Passing on into Holborn and turning eastward, we soon perceive a row of quaint Elizabethan
gabled houses (see Frontispiece), with overhanging upper stories and timber framework. The
contrast with the modern terra-cotta buildings on the north side of the street is striking.
The old houses are part of Staple Inn, now belonging to the Prudential Assurance Company, whose
red terra-cotta it is that forms such a contrast across the way. It was bought by the company
in 1884, and restored a few years later by the removal of the plaster which had concealed the
picturesque beams. Still within St. Andrew's parish, we here arrive at the City boundaries.
The numbering of Holborn proper, included in the City, begins a door or two above the old timbered
entrance, which leads to the first courtyard of Staple Inn. The courtyard is a real backwater
out of the rushing traffic. The uneven cobble-stones, the whispering plane-trees, the worn
red brick, and the flat sashed windows, of a bygone date all combine to make a picture of old
London seldom to be found nowadays. Dr. Johnson wrote parts of "Rasselas" while a resident here.

The way is a thoroughfare to Southampton Buildings, and continuing onward we pass another part
of the old building with a quaint clock and small garden. Near at hand are the new buildings
of the Patent Office and the Birkbeck Bank and Chambers, already mentioned, an enormous mass
of masonry. The Inn contains a fine hall, thus mentioned in 1631:

"Staple Inn was the Inne or Hostell of the Merchants of the Staple (as the tradition is), wherewith
until I can learne better matter, concerning the antiquity and foundation thereof, I must rest
satisfied. But for latter matters I cannot chuse but make report, and much to the prayse and
commendation of the Gentlemen of this House, that they have bestowed great costs in new-building
a fayre Hall of brick, and two parts of the outward Courtyards, besides other lodging in the
garden and elsewhere, and have thereby made it the fayrest Inne of Chauncery in this Universitie."

The whole of this district abounds in these one-time Inns of Chancery, formerly attached to
the Inns of Court; but those that remain are all now diverted to other uses, and some have
vanished, leaving only a name.

Further on there is Furnival Street, lately Castle Street, and so marked in Strype's map. The
Castle Public-house still recalls the older name. Tradesmen of every kind occupy the buildings,
besides which there is a Baptist mission-house. The buildings on the east side are of the old-fashioned
style, dark brick with flat sashed windows.

Furnival Street lies within the City. The street takes its name from Furnival's Inn, rebuilt
in the early part of the nineteenth century. This stood on the north side of Holborn, and was
without the City. There is, perhaps, less to say about it than about any of the other old Inns.
It was originally the town-house of the Lords Furnival. It was an Inn of Chancery in Henry
IV.'s reign, and was sold to Lincoln's Inn in the reign of Elizabeth. Its most interesting
associations are that Sir Thomas More was Reader for three years, and that Charles Dickens
had chambers here previous to 1837, while "Pickwick" was running in parts. It was rebuilt in
great part in Charles I.'s reign, and entirely rebuilt about 1818. With the exception of the
hall, it was used as an hotel. The Prudential Assurance Company's palatial building now completely
covers the site.

In Holborn, opposite to the end of Gray's Inn Road, formerly stood Middle Row, an island of
houses which formed a great obstruction to traffic. This was removed in 1867.

The next opening on the south side is Dyers' Buildings, with name reminiscent of some former
almshouses of the Dyers' Company. Then a small entry, with "Mercer's School" above, leads into
Barnard's Inn, now the School of the Mercers' Company. The first court is smaller than that
of Staple Inn, and lacks the whispering planes, yet it is redolent of old London. On the south
side is the little hall, the smallest of all those of the London Inns; it is now used as a
dining-hall. In the windows is some ancient stained glass, contemporary with the building--that
is to say, about 470 years old.

The exterior of this hall, with its steeply-pitched roof, is a favourite subject for artists.
Beyond it are concrete courts, walls of glazed white brick, and cleanly substantial buildings,
which speak of the modern appreciation of sanitation. A tablet on the wall records in admirably
concise fashion the history of the Mercers' School and its various peregrinations until it
found a home here in 1894. Before being bought by the Mercers' Company, the Inn had been let
as residential chambers. It was also an Inn of Chancery, and belonged to Gray's Inn. It was
formerly called Mackworth's Inn, being the property of Dr. John Mackworth, Dean of Lincoln.
It was next occupied by a man named Barnard, when it was converted into an Inn of Chancery.

The further court is bounded on the east side by one of the few very old buildings left in
London. This was formerly the White Horse Inn, but is now also part of the Mercers' School
buildings.

Timbs quotes from Lord Eldon's "Anecdote Book," 1776, in which Lord Eldon says he came to the
White Horse Inn when he left school, and here met his brother, Lord Stowell, who took him to
see the play at Drury Lane, where "Lowe played Jobson in the farce, and Miss Pope played Nell.
When we came out of the house it rained hard. There were then few hackney coaches, and we both
got into one sedan-chair. Turning out of Fleet Street into Fetter Lane there was a sort of
contest between our chairmen and some persons who were coming up Fleet Street.... In the struggle
the sedan-chair was overset, with us in it."

The white boundary wall of the Mercers' School replaces the old wall of the noted Swan Distillery
(now rebuilt). This distillery was an object of attack in the Gordon Riots, partly, perhaps,
because of its stores, and partly because its owner was a Roman Catholic. It was looted, and
the liquor ran down in the streets, where men and women drank themselves mad.

Both the Holborn and Fleet Street ends of Fetter Lane were for more than two centuries places
of execution. Some have derived the name from the fetters of criminals, and others from "fewtors,"
disorderly and idle persons, a corruption of "defaytors," or defaulters; while the most probable
derivation is that from the "fetters" or rests on the breastplates of the knights who jousted
in Fickett's Field adjoining.

An interesting Moravian Chapel has an entry on the east side of Fetter Lane. This has memories
of Baxter, Wesley, and Whitefield. It was bought by the Moravians in 1738, and was then associated
with the name of Count Zinzendorf. It was attacked and dismantled in the riots. Dryden is supposed
to have lived in Fetter Lane, but Hutton, in "Literary Landmarks," says the only evidence of
such occupation was a curious stone, existing as late as 1885, in the wall of No. 16, over
Fleur-de-Lys Court, stating:

        "Here lived
        John Dryden,
          Ye Poet.
    Born 1631--Died 1700.
       Glorious John!"

But he adds there is no record when or by whom the stone was placed. Otway is said to have
lived opposite, and quarrelled with his illustrious neighbour in verse. In any case, Fleur-de-Lys
Court lies outside the boundaries of the parish we are now considering. It may, however, be
mentioned that the woman Elizabeth Brownrigg, who so foully tortured her apprentices, committed
her atrocities in this court. Praise God Barebones was at one time a resident in the Lane,
and in the same house his brother, Damned Barebones. The house was afterwards bought by the
Royal Society, of which Sir Isaac Newton was then President, and the Royal Society meetings
were held here until 1782.

Returning to Holborn, from whence we have deviated, we come across Bartlett's Buildings, described
by Strype as a very handsome, spacious place very well inhabited.

Thavie's Inn bears the name of the vanished Inn of Chancery. Here was originally the house
of an armourer called John Thavie, who, by will dated 1348, devised it with three shops for
the repair and maintenance of St. Andrew's Church. It was bought for an Inn of Chancery by
Lincoln's Inn in the reign of Edward III. It is curious how persistently the old names have
adhered to these places. It was sold by Lincoln's Inn in 1771, and afterwards burnt down. The
houses here are chiefly inhabited by jewellers, opticians, and earthenware merchants. There
are a couple of private hotels.

In St. Andrew's Street are the Rectory and Court-house, rebuilt from the designs of S. S. Teulon
in yellow brick. The buildings form a quadrangle, with a wall and one side of the church enclosing
a small garden. In the Court-house is a handsome oak overmantle, black with age, which was
brought here from the old Court-house in St. Andrew's Court, pulled down in the construction
of St. Andrew's Street and Holborn Viaduct in 1869.

Holborn Circus was formed in connection with the approaches to the Viaduct. In the centre there
is an equestrian statue of the Prince Consort in bronze, by C. Bacon. This was presented by
an anonymous donor, and the Corporation voted £2,000 for erecting a suitable pedestal for it.
The whole was put up in 1874, two years after the completion of the Circus. On the north and
south sides are bas-reliefs, and on the east and west statues of draped female figures seated.

Holborn Viaduct was finished in 1869. It is 1,400 feet in length, and is carried by a series
of arches over the streets in the valleys below. The main arch is over Farringdon Road, the
bed of the Fleet or Holbourne Stream, and is supported by polished granite columns of immense
solidity. At the four corners of this there are four buildings enclosing staircases communicating
with the lower level, and in niches are respectively statues of Sir William Walworth, Sir Hugh
Myddleton, Sir Thomas Gresham, and Sir Henry Fitz-Alwyn, with dates of birth and death. On
the parapets of the Viaduct are four erect draped female figures, representative of Fine Art,
Science, Agriculture, and Commerce. Holborn Viaduct is a favourite locality for bicycle shops.

The City Temple (Congregational) and St. Andrew's Church are near neighbours, and conspicuous
objects on the Viaduct just above Shoe Lane. The City Temple is a very solid mass of masonry
with a cupola and a frontage of two stories in two orders of columns.

The parish of St. Andrew was formerly of much greater extent than at present, embracing not
only Hatton Garden, Saffron Hill, but also St. George the Martyr, these are now separate parishes.

The original Church of St. Andrew was of great antiquity. Malcolm, who gives a very full account
of it in "Londinium Redivivum," says that it was given "very many centuries past" to the Dean
and Chapter of St. Paul's, and the Abbot and Convent of St. Saviour, Bermondsey, by Gladerinus,
a priest, on condition that the Abbot and Convent paid the Dean and the Chapter 12s. per annum.
We also hear that there was a grammar-school attached to it, one of Henry VI.'s foundations,
and that there had been previously an alien priory, a cell to the House of Cluny, suppressed
by Henry V. The church continued in a flourishing condition. Various chantries were bestowed
upon it from time to time, and in the will of the Rector, date 1447, it is stated that there
were four altars within the church. In Henry VIII.'s time the principals of the four inns or
houses in the parish paid a mark apiece to the church, apparently for the maintenance of a
chantry priest. In Elizabeth's reign the tombs were despoiled: the churchwardens sold the brasses
that had so far escaped destruction, and proceeded to demolish the monuments, until an order
from the Queen put a stop to this vandalism.

In 1665 Stillingfleet (Bishop of Worcester) was made Rector. The church was rebuilt by Wren
in 1686 "in a neat, plain manner." The ancient tower remained, and was recased in 1704. The
building is large, light, and airy, and is in the florid, handsome style we are accustomed
to associate with Wren. At the west end is a fine late-pointed arch, communicating with the
tower, in which there is a similar window. This arch was blocked up and hidden by Wren, but
was re-opened by the late Rector, the Rev. Henry Blunt, who also thoroughly restored and renovated
the building some thirty years ago.

The most interesting of the interior fittings is a porphyry altar, placed by Sacheverell, who
was Rector from 1713 to 1724, and who is buried beneath it. A marble font, at which Disraeli
was baptized at the age of twelve, is also interesting, and the pulpit of richly-carved wood,
attributed to Grinling Gibbons, is very handsome. On the west wall is a marble slab, in memory
of William Marsden, M.D., founder of the Royal Free and Cancer Hospitals. It was put up by
the Cordwainers' Company in 1901.

In the tower are many monuments of antiquity, but none to recall the memory of anyone notable.
The church stood in a very commanding situation until the building of the Viaduct, which passes
on a higher level, giving the paved yard in front the appearance of having been sunk.

On this side of the church there is a large bas-relief of the Last Judgment, without date.
This was a favourite subject in the seventeenth century, and similar specimens, though not
so fine, and differing in treatment, still exist elsewhere (see p. 17).

Malcolm mentions a house next the White Hart, with land behind it, worth 5s. per annum, called
"Church Acre," and in the reign of Henry VII. the priest was fined 4d. for driving across the
churchyard to the Rectory. In the twenty-fifth year of Elizabeth's reign there was a great
heap of skulls and bones that lay "unseemly and offensive" at the east end of the church. The
register records the burial here, on August 28, 1770, of "William Chatterton," presumably Thomas
Chatterton, as the date accords. A later hand has added the words "the poet."

Wriothesley, Henry VIII.'s Chancellor, was buried in St. Andrew's churchyard. Timbs says that
this church has been called the "Poets' Church," for, besides the above, John Webster, dramatic
poet, is said to have been parish clerk here, though the register does not confirm it. Robert
Savage was christened here January 18, 1696.

There is also a monument to Emery, the comedian, and Neale, another poet, was buried in the
churchyard. But these records combined make but poor claim to such a proud title. The ground
on which Chatterton was buried has now utterly vanished, having been covered first by the Farringdon
Market, and later by great warehouses.

When the Holborn Viaduct was built, a large piece of the churchyard was cut off, and the human
remains thus disinterred were reburied in the City cemetery at Ilford, Essex.

The earliest mention of Shoe Lane is in a writ of Edward II., when it is denominated "Scolane
in the ward without Ludgate." In the seventeenth century we read of a noted cockpit which was
established here.

Gunpowder Alley, which ran out of this Lane, was the residence of Lovelace, the poet, and of
Lilly, the astrologer. The former died here of absolute want in 1658. His well-known lines,

