SOCIALISM AS IT IS

A SURVEY OF THE WORLD-WIDE REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

BY

WILLIAM ENGLISH WALLING

New York

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

1918

All rights reserved

COPYRIGHT, 1912,

BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

Set up and electrotyped. Published April, 1912. Reprinted October, 1912; January, 1915. Yet
the public cannot be expected to believe what an organization says about its own character
or aims. It is to be rightly understood only through its acts. Fortunately the Socialists'
acts are articulate; every party decision of practical importance has been reached after long
and earnest discussion in party congresses and press. And wherever the party's position has
become of practical import to those outside the movement, it has been subjected to a destructive
criticism that has forced Socialists from explanations that were sometimes imaginary or theoretical
to a clear recognition and frank statement of their true position. To know and understand Socialism
as it is, we must lay aside both the claims of Socialists and the attacks of their opponents
and confine ourselves to the concrete activities of Socialist organizations, the grounds on
which their decisions have been reached, and the reasons by which they are ultimately defended.

Writers on Socialism, as a rule, have either left their statements of the Socialist position
unsupported, or have based them exclusively on Socialist authorities, Marx, Engels, and Lasalle,
whose chief writings are now half a century old. The existence to-day of a well-developed movement,
many-sided and world-wide, makes it possible for a writer to rely neither on his personal experience
and opinion nor on the old and familiar, if still little understood, theories. I have based
my account either on the acts of Socialist organizations and of parties and governments with
which they are in conflict, or on those responsible declarations of representative statesmen,
economists, writers, and editors which are not mere theories, but the actual material of present-day
polities,--though among these living forces, it must be said, are to be found also some of
the teachings of the great Socialists of the past.

It will be noticed that the numerous quotations from Socialists and others are not given academically,
in support of the writer's conclusions, but with the purpose of reproducing with the greatest
possible accuracy the exact views of the writer or speaker quoted. I am aware that accuracy
is not to be secured by quotation alone, but depends also on the choice of the passages to
be reproduced and the use made of them. I have therefore striven conscientiously to give, as
far as space allows, the leading and central ideas of the persons most frequently quoted, and
not their more hasty, extreme, and less representative expressions.

I have given approximately equal attention to the German, British, and American situations,
considerable but somewhat less space to those of France and Australia, and only a few pages
to Italy and Belgium. This allotment of space corresponds somewhat roughly to the relative
importance of these countries in the international movement. As my idea has been not to describe,
but to interpret, I have laid additional weight on the first five countries named, on the ground
that each has developed a distinct type of labor movement. As I am concerned with national
parties and labor organizations only as parts of the international movement, however, I have
avoided, wherever possible, all separate treatment and all discussion of features that are
to be found only in one country.

The book is divided into three parts; the first deals with the external environment out of
which Socialism is growing and by which it is being shaped, the second with the internal struggles
by which it is shaping and defining itself, the third with the reaction of the movement on
its environment. I first differentiate Socialism from other movements that seem to resemble
it either in their phrases or their programs of reform, then give an account of the movement
from within, without attempting to show unity where it does not exist, or disguising the fact
that some of its factions are essentially anti-Socialist rather than Socialist, and finally,
show how all distinctively Socialist activities lead directly to a revolutionary outcome.

I am indebted to numerous persons, Socialists and anti-Socialists, who during the twelve years
in which I have been gathering material--in nearly all the countries mentioned--have assisted
me in my work. But I must make special mention of the very careful reading of the whole manuscript
by Mr. J. G. Phelps Stokes, and of the numerous and vital changes made at his suggestion.

CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE
PREFACE                                                                v

INTRODUCTION                                                          ix

PART I

"STATE SOCIALISM" AND AFTER

CHAPTER
     I. THE CAPITALIST REFORM PROGRAM                                  1
    II. THE NEW CAPITALISM                                            16
   III. THE POLITICS OF THE NEW CAPITALISM                            32
    IV. "STATE SOCIALISM" AND LABOR                                   46
     V. COMPULSORY ARBITRATION                                        66
    VI. AGRARIAN "STATE SOCIALISM" IN AUSTRALASIA                     85
   VII. "EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY"                                     97
  VIII. THE "FIRST STEP" TOWARDS SOCIALISM                           108

PART II

THE POLITICS OF SOCIALISM

     I. "STATE SOCIALISM" WITHIN THE MOVEMENT                        117
    II. "REFORMISM" IN FRANCE, ITALY, AND BELGIUM                    131
   III. "LABORISM" IN GREAT BRITAIN                                  146
    IV. "REFORMISM" IN THE UNITED STATES                             175
     V. REFORM BY MENACE OF REVOLUTION                               210
    VI. REVOLUTIONARY POLITICS                                       231
   VII. THE REVOLUTIONARY TREND                                      248

PART III

SOCIALISM IN ACTION

     I. SOCIALISM AND THE "CLASS STRUGGLE"                           276
    II. THE AGRICULTURAL CLASSES AND THE LAND QUESTION               300
   III. SOCIALISM AND THE "WORKING CLASS"                            324
    IV. SOCIALISM AND LABOR UNIONS                                   334
     V. SYNDICALISM; SOCIALISM THROUGH DIRECT ACTION OF LABOR UNIONS 354
    VI. THE "GENERAL STRIKE"                                         387
   VII. REVOLUTION IN DEFENSE OF CIVIL GOVERNMENT                    401
  VIII. POLITICAL AND SOCIAL REVOLUTION                              416
    IX. THE TRANSITION TO SOCIALISM                                  426

NOTES                                                                437

INDEX                                                                447

INTRODUCTION

The only possible definition of Socialism is the Socialist movement. Karl Marx wrote in 1875
at the time of the Gotha Convention, where the present German party was founded, that "every
step of the real movement is of more importance than a dozen programs," while Wilhelm Liebknecht
said, "Marx is dear to me, but the party is dearer."[1] What was this movement that the great
theorist put above theory and his leading disciple valued above his master?

What Marx and Liebknecht had in mind was a social class which they saw springing up all over
the world with common characteristics and common problems--a class which they felt must and
would be organized into a movement to gain control of society. Fifty years before it had been
nothing, and they had seen it in their lifetime coming to preponderate numerically in Great
Britain as it was sure to preponderate in other countries; and it seemed only a question of
time before the practically propertyless employees of modern industry would dominate the world
and build up a new society. This class would be politically and economically organized, and
when its organization and numbers were sufficient it would take governments out of the hands
of the old aristocratic and plutocratic rulers and transform them into the instruments of a
new civilization. This is what Marx and Liebknecht meant by the "party" and the "movement."

From the first the new class had been in conflict with employers and governments, and these
struggles had been steadily growing in scope and intensity. Marx was not so much interested
in the immediate objects of such conflicts as in the struggle itself. "The real fruit of their
victory," he said, "lies, not in immediate results, but in the ever expanding union of the
workers."[2] As the struggle evolved and became better organized, it tended more and more definitely
and irresistibly towards a certain goal, whether the workers were yet aware of it or not. If,
therefore, we Socialists participate in the real struggles of politics, Marx said of himself
and his associates (in 1844, at the very outset of his career), "we expose new principles to
the world out of the principles of the world itself.... We only explain to it the real object
for which it struggles."[3]

But the public still fails, in spite of the phenomenal and continued growth of the Socialist
movement in all modern countries, to grasp the first principle on which it is based.

"Socialism has many phases," says a typical editorial in the Independent. "It is a political
party, an economic creed, a religion, and a stage of history. It is world-wide, vigorous, and
growing. No man can tell what its future will be. Its philosophy is being studied by the greatest
minds of the world, and it deserves study because it promises a better, a safer, and a fairer
life to the masses. But as yet it is only a theory, a hypothesis. It has never been tried in
toto.... It has succeeded only where it has allied itself with liberal and opportunist rather
than radical policies."[4]

As the Socialist movement has nowhere achieved political power, obviously it can neither claim
political success or be accused of political failure. Nor does this fact leave Socialism as
a mere theory, in view of its admitted and highly significant success in organizing and educating
the masses in many countries and animating them with the purpose of controlling industry and
government.

Mr. John Graham Brooks, in the Atlantic Monthly, gives us another equally typical variation
of the same fundamental misunderstanding. "Never a theory of social reconstruction was spun
in the gray mists of the mind," says Mr. Brooks, "that was not profoundly modified when applied
to life. Socialism as a theory is already touching life at a hundred points, and among many
peoples--Socialism has been a faith. It is slowly becoming scientific, in a sense and to the
extent that it submits its claims to the comparative tests of experience."[5]

Undoubtedly Socialist theories have been spun both within and without the movement, and to
many Socialism has been a faith. But neither faith nor theory has had much to do with the great
reality that is now overshadowing all others in the public mind; namely, the existence of a
Socialist movement. The Socialism of this movement has never consisted in ready-made formulas
which were later subjected to "the comparative test of experience"; it has always grown out
of the experience of the movement in the first instance.

Another typical article, in Collier's Weekly, admits that Socialism is now a movement. But
as the writer, like so many others, conceives of Socialism as having been, in its inception,
a "theory," a "doctrine" promoted by "Utopian dreaming," "incendiary rhetoric," an "anti-civic
jargon," he naturally views it with little real sympathy and understanding even in its present
form. The same Socialism that was accused of all this narrowness is suddenly and completely
transformed into a movement of such breadth that it has neither a new message nor even a separate
existence.

"It is merely a new offshoot of a very old faith indeed," we are now told, "the ideal of the
altruistic dreamers of all ages, an awakened sense of brotherhood in men. Stripped of all its
husks, Socialism stands for no other aim than that. All its other teachings, the public ownership
of the land, for example, the nationalization of the means of production and distribution,
the economic emancipation of woman, have only program values, as they lead to that one end.
Whether, so stripped, it ceases to be Socialism and becomes merely the advance guard of the
world-wide liberal movement is not, of course, a question of more than academic interest."[6]

The moment it can no longer be denied that Socialism is a movement, it is at once confused
with other movements to which it is fundamentally and irreconcilably opposed. Surely this is
no mere mental error, but a deep-seated and irrepressible aversion to what is to many a disagreeable
truth,--the rapid growth and development, in many countries, of political parties and labor
organizations more and more seriously determined to annihilate the power of private property
over industry and government.

The radical misconceptions above quoted, almost universal where Socialism is still young, are
by no means confined to non-Socialists. Many writers who are supposed, in some degree at least,
to voice the movement, are as guilty as those who wholly repudiate it. Mr. H. G. Wells, for
instance, says that Socialism is a "system of ideas," and that "Socialism and the Socialist
movement are two different things."[7] If Socialism is indeed no more than a "growing realization
of constructive needs in every man's mind," and if every man is more or less a Socialist, then
there is certainly no need for that antagonism to employers and property owners of which Mr.
Wells complains.

Mr. Wells himself gives the true Socialist standpoint when he goes on to write that political
parties must be held together "by interests and habits, not ideas." As this class will not
socialize or abolish itself, the rest of the people, Socialists predict, will undertake the
task. And the abolition of capitalism, they believe, will be a social revolution the like of
which mankind has hitherto neither known nor been able to imagine.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] John Spargo, "Karl Marx," pp. 312, 331.

[2] John Spargo, op. cit., p. 116.

[3] John Spargo, op. cit., p. 73.

[4] The Independent (New York), commenting on the Socialist victory in the Milwaukee municipal
elections of April, 1910.

[5] "Recent Socialist Literature," by John Graham Brooks, Atlantic Monthly, 1910. Page 283.

[6] Collier's Weekly, July 30, 1910.

[7] H. G. Wells, "Socialism and the Family."

[8] H. G. Wells, "The New Macchiavelli."

SOCIALISM AS IT IS

PART I

"STATE SOCIALISM" AND AFTER

CHAPTER I

THE CAPITALIST REFORM PROGRAM

Only that statesman, writer, or sociologist has the hearing of the public to-day who can bind
all his proposed reforms together into some large and far-sighted plan.

Mr. Roosevelt, in this new spirit, has spoken of the "social reorganization of the United States,"
while an article in one of the first numbers of La Follette's Weekly protested against any
program of reform "which fails to deal with society as a whole, which proposes to remedy certain
abuses but admits its incapacity to reach and remove the roots of the other perhaps more glaring
social disorders."

Some of those who have best expressed the need of a general and complete social reorganization
have done so in the name of Socialism. Mr. J. R. MacDonald, recently chairman of the British
Labour Party, for example writes that the problem set up by the Socialists is that of "co-ordinating
the forces making for a reconstruction of society and of giving them rational coherence and
unity,"[9] while the organ of the middle-class Socialists of England says that their purpose
is "to compel legislators to organize industry."[10]

Indeed, the necessity and practicability of an orderly and systematic reorganization in industrial
society has been the central idea of British Socialists from the beginning, while they have
been its chief exponents in the international Socialist movement. But the idea is equally widespread
outside of Socialist circles. It will be hard for British Socialists to lay an exclusive claim
to this conception when comrades of such international prominence as Edward Bernstein, who
holds the British view of Socialism, assert that Socialism itself is nothing more than "organizing
Liberalism."[11]

Whether Socialists were the first to promote the new political philosophy or not, it is undeniable
that the Radicals and Liberals of Great Britain and other countries have now taken it up and
are making it their own. Mr. Winston Churchill, while Chairman of the Board of Trade, and Mr.
Lloyd George, Chancellor of the Exchequer, members of the British Cabinet, leaders of the Liberal
Party, recognize that the movement among governments towards a conscious reorganization of
industry is general and demands that Great Britain should keep up with other countries.

"Look at our neighbor and friendly rival, Germany," said Mr. Churchill recently. "I see that
great State organized for peace and organized for war, to a degree to which we cannot pretend....
A more scientific, a more elaborate, a more comprehensive social organization is indispensable
to our country if we are to surmount the trials and stresses which the future years will bring.
It is this organization that the policy of the Budget will create."[12]

Advanced and radical reformers of the new type all over the world, those who put forward a
general plan of reform and wish to go to the common roots of our social evils, demand, first
of all, reorganization. But how is such a reorganization to be worked out? The general programs
have in every country many features in common. To see what this common basis is, let us look
at the generalizations of some of the leading reformers.

One of the most scientific and "constructive" is Mr. Sidney Webb. No one has so thoroughly
mastered the history of trade unionism, and no one has done more to promote "municipal Socialism"
in England, both in theory and in practice, for he has been one of the leaders of the energetic
and progressive London County council from the beginning of the present reform period. He has
also been one of the chief organizers of the more or less Socialistic Fabian Society, which
has done more towards popularizing social reform in England than any other single educative
force, besides sending into all the corners of the world a new and rounded theory of social
reform--the work for the most part of Sidney Webb, Bernard Shaw, and a few others.

Mr. Webb has given us several excellent phrases which will aid us to sum up the typical social
reformers' philosophy in a few words. He insists that what every country requires, and especially
Great Britain, is to center its attention on the promotion of the "national efficiency." This
refers largely to securing a businesslike and economic administration of the existing government
functions. But it requires also that all the industries and economic activities of the country
should be considered the business of the nation, that the industrial functions of the government
should be extended, and that, even from the business point of view, the chief purpose of government
should be to supervise economic development.

To bring about the maximum of efficiency in production would require, in Mr. Webb's opinion
and that of the overwhelming majority of reformers everywhere, a vast extension of government
activities, including not only the nationalization and municipalization of many industries
and services, but also that the individual workman or citizen be dealt with as the chief business
asset of the nation and that wholesale public expenditures be entered into to develop his value.
Mr. Webb does not think that this policy is necessarily Socialistic, for, as he very wisely
remarks, "the necessary basis of society, whether the superstructure be collectivist or individualist,
is the same."

Mr. Wells in his "New Worlds for Old" also claims that the new policy of having the State do
everything that can promote industrial efficiency (which, unlike Mr. Webb, he persists in calling
Socialism) is to the interest of the business man.

     "And does the honest and capable business man stand to lose or gain
     by the coming of such a Socialist government?" he asks. "I submit
     that on the whole he stands to gain....

     "Under Socialist government such as is quite possible in England at
     the present time:--

     "He will be restricted from methods of production and sale that are
     socially mischievous.

     "He will pay higher wages.

     "He will pay a large proportion of his rent-rate outgoings to the
     State and Municipality, and less to the landlord. Ultimately he
     will pay it all to the State or Municipality, and as a voter help
     to determine how it shall be spent, and the landlord will become a
     government stockholder. Practically he will get his rent returned
     to him in public service.

     "He will speedily begin to get better-educated, better-fed, and
     better-trained workers, so that he will get money value for the
     higher wages he pays.

     "He will get a regular, safe, cheap supply of power and material.
     He will get cheaper and more efficient internal and external
     transit.

     "He will be under an organized scientific State, which will
     naturally pursue a vigorous scientific collective policy in support
     of the national trade.

     "He will be less of an adventurer and more of a citizen."[13]

Mr. Churchill while denying any sympathy for Socialism, as both he and the majority of Socialists
understand it, frankly avows himself a collectivist. "The whole tendency of civilization,"
he says, "is towards the multiplication of the collective functions of society. The ever growing
complications of civilizations create for us new services which have to be undertaken by the
State, and create for us an expansion of the existing services. There is a growing feeling,
which I entirely share, against allowing those services which are in the nature of monopolies
to pass into private hands. [Mr. Churchill has expressed the regret that the railways are not
in the hands of the State.] There is a pretty steady determination, which I am convinced will
become effective in the present Parliament to intercept all future unearned increment, which
may arise from the increase in the speculative value of the land."[14] (Italics mine.)

