CHAP.                                          PAGE

        I. WHY ROBERT WYNN EMIGRATED,                 7
       II. CROSSING THE 'FERRY,'                     22
      III. UP THE ST. LAWRENCE,                      35
       IV. WOODEN-NESS,                              44
        V. DEBARKATION,                              52
       VI. CONCERNING AN INCUBUS,                    63
      VII. THE RIVER HIGHWAY,                        70
     VIII. 'JEAN BAPTISTE' AT HOME,                  78
       IX. 'FROM MUD TO MARBLE,'                     86
        X. CORDUROY,                                 96
       XI. THE BATTLE WITH THE WILDERNESS BEGINS,   105
      XII. CAMPING IN THE BUSH,                     115
     XIII. THE YANKEE STOREKEEPER,                  123
      XIV. THE 'CORNER,'                            133
       XV. ANDY TREES A 'BASTE,'                    138
      XVI. LOST IN THE WOODS,                       145
     XVII. BACK TO CEDAR CREEK,                     154
    XVIII. GIANT TWO-SHOES,                         166
      XIX. A MEDLEY,                                171
       XX. THE ICE-SLEDGE,                          180
      XXI. THE FOREST-MAN,                          186
     XXII. SILVER SLEIGH-BELLS,                     196
    XXIII. STILL-HUNTING,                           202
     XXIV. LUMBERERS,                               214
      XXV. CHILDREN OF THE FOREST,                  220
     XXVI. ON A SWEET SUBJECT,                      229
    XXVII. A BUSY BEE,                              235
   XXVIII. OLD FACES UPON NEW NEIGHBOURS,           244
     XXIX. ONE DAY IN JULY,                         250
      XXX. VISITORS AND VISITED,                    259
     XXXI. SUNDAY IN THE FOREST,                    260
    XXXII. HOW THE CAPTAIN CLEARED HIS BUSH,        274
   XXXIII. THE FOREST ON FIRE,                      280
    XXXIV. TRITON AMONG MINNOWS,                    291
     XXXV. THE PINK MIST,                           298
    XXXVI. BELOW ZERO,                              309
   XXXVII. A CUT, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES,             315
  XXXVIII. JACK-OF-ALL-TRADES,                      324
    XXXIX. SETTLER THE SECOND,                      329
       XL. AN UNWELCOME SUITOR,                     338
      XLI. THE MILL-PRIVILEGE,                      343
     XLII. UNDER THE NORTHERN LIGHTS,               351
    XLIII. A BUSH-FLITTING,                         359
     XLIV. SHOVING OF THE ICE,                      370
      XLV. EXEUNT OMNES,                            378

CEDAR CREEK.

CHAPTER I.

WHY ROBERT WYNN EMIGRATED.

A night train drew up slowly alongside the platform at the Euston Square terminus. Immediately
the long inanimate line of rail-carriages burst into busy life: a few minutes of apparently
frantic confusion, and the individual items of the human freight were speeding towards all
parts of the compass, to be absorbed in the leviathan metropolis, as drops of a shower in a
boundless sea.

One of the cabs pursuing each other along the lamplit streets, and finally diverging among
the almost infinite ramifications of London thoroughfares, contains a young man, who sits gazing
through the window at the rapidly passing range of houses and shops with curiously fixed vision.
The face, as momentarily revealed by the beaming of a brilliant gaslight, is chiefly remarkable
for clear dark eyes rather deeply set, and a firm closure of the lips. He scarcely alters his
posture during the miles of driving through wildernesses of brick and stone: some thoughts
are at work beneath that broad short brow, which keep him thus still. He has never been in
London before. He has come now on an errand of hope and endeavour, for he wants to push himself
into the army of the world's workers, somewhere. Prosaically, he wants to earn his bread, and,
if possible, butter wherewith to flavour it. Like Britons in general, from Dick Whittington
downwards, he thinks that the capital is the place in which to seek one's fortune, and to find
it. He had not expected streets paved with gold, nor yet with the metaphorical plenty of penny
loaves; but an indefinite disappointment weighs upon him as he passes through quarters fully
as dingy and poverty-stricken as those in his own provincial town.

Still on--on--across 'the province covered with houses;' sometimes in a great thoroughfare,
where midnight is as noisy as noon-day, and much more glaring; sometimes through a region of
silence and sleep, where gentility keeps proper hours, going to bed betimes in its respectable
streets. Robert Wynn began to wonder when the journey would end; for, much as he knew of London
by hearsay and from books, it was widely different thus personally to experience the metropolitan
amplitude. A slight dizziness of sight, from the perpetual sweeping past of lamps and shadowy
buildings, caused him to close his eyes; and from speculations on the possible future and the
novel present, his thoughts went straight home again.

Home to the Irish village where his ancestors had long been lords of the soil; and the peasantry
had deemed that the greatest power on earth, under majesty itself, was his Honour Mr. Wynn
of Dunore, where now, fallen from greatness, the family was considerably larger than the means.
The heavily encumbered property had dropped away piece by piece, and the scant residue clung
to its owner like shackles. With difficulty the narrow exchequer had raised cash enough to
send Robert on this expedition to London, from which much was hoped. The young man had been
tolerably well educated; he possessed a certain amount and quality of talent, extolled by partial
friends as far above the average; but the mainstay of his anticipations was a promise of a
Civil Service appointment, obtained from an influential quarter; and his unsophisticated country
relatives believed he had only to present himself in order to realize it at once.

He was recalled to London by the sudden stoppage of the cab. On the dim lamp over a doorway
was stained the name of the obscure hotel to which he had been recommended as central in situation,
while cheap in charges. Cabby's fare was exorbitant, the passenger thought; but, after a faint
resistance, Mr. Wynn was glad to escape from the storm of h-less remonstrances by payment of
the full demand, and so entered the coffee-room.

It was dingy and shabby-genteel, like the exterior; a quarter of a century might have elapsed
since the faded paper had been put up, or a stroke of painting executed, in that dispiriting
apartment. Meanwhile, all the agencies of travel-stain had been defacing both. An odour of
continual meal-times hung about it; likewise of smoke of every grade, from the perfumed havanna
to the plebeian pigtail. The little tables were dark with hard work and antiquity; the chair
seats polished with innumerable frictions. A creeping old waiter, who seemed to have known
better days in a higher-class establishment, came to receive the new-comer's orders; and Robert
sat down to wait for his modest chop and glass of ale.

That morning's Times lay on his table: he glanced over the broad sheet of advertisements--that
wondrous daily record of need and of endeavour among the toiling millions of London. The inexplicable
solitude in a crowd came about the reader's heart: what a poor chance had a provincial stranger
amid the jostling multitude all eager for the prizes of comfort and competence! Robert went
back for anchor to one strong fact. The Honourable Mr. Currie Faver, Secretary to the Board
of Patronage, had declared to the member for the Irish county of C----, on the eve of an important
division, that his young friend should have the earliest appointment at his disposal in a certain
department. Robert Wynn felt an inward gratulation on the superiority of his auspices. True,
the promise made in January yet remained due in July; but there were numberless excellent good
reasons why Mr. Currie Faver had been as yet unable to redeem his pledge.

Robert turned his paper to look for the news: a paragraph in the corner arrested his attention.

'We learn from the best authority that, owing to the diminution of business consequent upon
recent Acts of the Legislature, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Commissioners of Public
Locomotion to reduce their staffs of officials, so that no fresh appointments can be made for
some months.'

He gazed at this piece of intelligence much longer than was necessary for the mere reading
of it. The Board of Public Locomotion was the very department in which he had been promised
a clerkship. Robert made up his mind that it could not be true; it was a mere newspaper report:
at all events, Mr. Currie Faver was bound by a previous pledge; whoever remained unappointed,
it could not be a friend of the hon. member for C----.

There were voices in the next compartment, and presently their conversation was forced on Mr.
Wynn's attention by the strongly stated sentiment, 'The finest country in the world--whips
all creation, it does.'

Some rejoinder ensued in a low tone.

'Cold!' with a rather scornful accent, 'I should think so. Gloriously cold! None of your wet
sloppy winters and foggy skies, but ice a yard and a half thick for months. What do you think
of forty degrees below zero, stranger?'

Robert could fancy the other invisible person shrugging his shoulders.

'Don't like it, eh? That's just a prejudice here in the old country; natural enough to them
that don't know the difference. When a man hears of seventy degrees below the freezing-point,
he's apt to get a shiver. But there, we don't mind it; the colder the merrier: winter's our
time of fun: sleighing and skating parties, logging and quilting bees, and other sociabilities
unknown to you in England. Ay, we're the finest people and the finest country on earth; and
since I've been to see yours, I'm the steadier in that opinion.'

'But emigrants in the backwoods have so few of the comforts of civilisation,' began the other
person, with a weak, irresolute voice.

'Among which is foremost the tax-gatherer, I suppose?' was the triumphant rejoinder. 'Well,
stranger, that's an animal I never saw in full blow till I've been to the old country. I was
obliged to clear out of our lodgings yesterday because they came down on the furniture for
poor-rate. Says I to the landlady, who was crying and wringing her hands, "Why not come to
the country where there's no taxes at all, nor rent either, if you choose?" Then it would frighten
one, all she counted up on her fingers--poor-rate, paving-rate, water-rate, lighting, income-tax,
and no end of others. I reckon that's what you pay for your high civilisation. Now, with us,
there's a water privilege on a'most every farm, and a pile of maple-logs has fire and gaslight
in it for the whole winter; and there's next to no poor, for every man and woman that's got
hands and health can make a living. Why, your civilisation is your misfortune in the old country;
you've got to support a lot of things and people besides yourself and your family.'

'Surely you are not quite without taxes,' said the other.

'Oh, we lay a trifle on ourselves for roads and bridges and schools, and such things. There's
custom-houses at the ports; but if a man chooses to live without tea or foreign produce, he
won't be touched by the indirect taxes either. I guess we've the advantage of you there. You
can't hardly eat or drink, or walk or ride, or do anything else, without a tax somewhere in
the background slily sucking your pocket.'

'A United States citizen,' thought Robert Wynn. 'What a peculiar accent he has! and the national
swagger too.' And Mr. Wynn, feeling intensely British, left his box, and walked into the midst
of the room with his newspaper, wishing to suggest the presence of a third person. He glanced
at the American, a middle-aged, stout-built man, with an intelligent and energetic countenance,
who returned the glance keenly. There was something indescribably foreign about his dress,
though in detail it was as usual; and his manner and air were those of one not accustomed to
the conventional life of cities. His companion was a tall, pale, elderly person, who bore his
piping voice in his appearance, and seemed an eager listener.

'And you say that I would make an independence if I emigrated?' asked the latter, fidgeting
nervously with a piece of paper.

'Any man would who has pluck and perseverance. You would have to work hard, though;' and his
eyes fell on the white irresolute hands, dubious as to the requisite qualities being there
indicated. 'You'd want a strong constitution if you're for the backwoods.'

'The freedom of a settler's life, surrounded by all the beauties of nature, would have great
charms for me,' observed the other.

'Yes,' replied the American, rather drily; 'but I reckon you wouldn't see many beauties till
you had a log shanty up, at all events. Now that young man'--he had caught Robert Wynn's eye
on him again--'is the very build for emigration. Strong, active, healthy, wide awake: no offence,
young gentleman, but such as you are badly wanted in Canada West.'

From this began a conversation which need not be minutely detailed. It was curious to see what
a change was produced in Robert's sentiments towards the settler, by learning that he was a
Canadian, and not a United States man: 'the national swagger' became little more than a dignified
assertion of independence, quite suitable to a British subject; the accent he had disliked
became an interesting local characteristic. Mr. Hiram Holt was the son of an English settler,
who had fixed himself on the left bank of the Ottawa, amid what was then primeval forest, and
was now a flourishing township, covered with prosperous farms and villages. Here had the sturdy
Saxon struggled with, and finally conquered, adverse circumstances, leaving his eldest son
possessed of a small freehold estate, and his other children portioned comfortably, so that
much of the neighbourhood was peopled by his descendants. And this, Hiram's first visit to
the mother country--for he was Canadian born--was on colonial business, being deputed from
his section of the province, along with others, to give evidence, as a landed proprietor, before
the Secretary of State, whose gate-lodge his father would have been proud to keep when he was
a poor Suffolk labourer.

'Now there's an injustice,' quoth Mr. Holt, diverging into politics. 'England has forty-three
colonies, and but one man to oversee them all--a man that's jerked in and out of office with
every successive Ministry, and is almost necessarily more intent on party manoeuvres than on
the welfare of the young nations he rules. Our colony alone--the two Canadas--is bigger than
Great Britain and Ireland three times over. Take in all along Vancouver's Island, and it's
as big as Europe. There's a pretty considerable slice of the globe for one man to manage! But
forty-two other colonies have to be managed as well; and I guess a nursery of forty-three children
of all ages left to one care-taker would run pretty wild, I do.'

'Yet we never hear of mismanagement,' observed Robert, in an unlucky moment; for Mr. Hiram
Holt retained all the Briton's prerogative of grumbling, and in five minutes had rehearsed
a whole catalogue of colonial grievances very energetically.

'Then I suppose you'll be for joining the stars and stripes?' said the young man.

'Never!' exclaimed the settler. 'Never, while there's a rag of the union jack to run up. But
it's getting late;' and as he rose to his feet with a tremendous yawn, Robert perceived his
great length, hitherto concealed by the table on which he leaned. 'This life would kill me
in six months. In my own place I'm about the farm at sunrise in summer. Never knew what it
was to be sick, young man.' And so the party separated; Robert admiring the stalwart muscular
frame of the Canadian as he strode before him up the stairs towards their sleeping-rooms. As
he passed Mr. Holt's door, he caught a glimpse of bare floor, whence all the carpets had been
rolled off into a corner, every vestige of curtain tucked away, and the window sashes open
to their widest. Subsequently he learned that to such domestic softnesses as carpets and curtains
the sturdy settler had invincible objections, regarding them as symptoms of effeminacy not
suitable to his character, though admitting that for women they were well enough.

Robert was all night felling pines, building log-huts, and wandering amid interminable forests;
and when his shaving water and boots awoke him at eight, he was a little surprised to find
himself a denizen of a London hotel. Mr. Holt had gone out hours before. After a hasty breakfast
Mr. Wynn ordered a cab, and proceeded to the residence of the hon. member for C---- county.

It was a mansion hired for the season in one of the fashionable squares; for so had the hon.
member's domestic board of control, his lady-wife and daughters, willed. Of course, Robert
was immensely too early; he dismissed the cab, and wandered about the neighbourhood, followed
by suspicious glances from one or two policemen, until, after calling at the house twice, he
was admitted into a library beset with tall dark bookcases. Here sat the M.P. enjoying the
otium cum dignitate, in a handsome morning gown, with bundles of parliamentary papers and a
little stack of letters on the table. But none of the legislative literature engrossed his
attention just then: the Morning Post dropped from his fingers as he arose and shook hands
with the son of his constituent.

'Ah, my dear Wynn--how happy--delighted indeed, I assure you. Have you breakfasted? all well
at home? your highly honoured father? late sitting at the House last night--close of the session
most exhausting even to seasoned members, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer said to me last
evening in the lobby;' and here followed an anecdote. But while he thus ran on most affably,
the under-current of idea in his mind was somewhat as follows: 'What on earth does this young
fellow want of me? His family interest in the county almost gone--not worth taking pains to
please any longer--a great bore--yet I must be civil;--oh, I recollect Currie Paver's promise--thinks
he has given me enough this session'--

Meanwhile, Robert was quite interested by his agreeable small talk. It is so charming to hear
great names mentioned familiarly by one personally acquainted with them; to learn that Palmerston
and Lord John can breakfast like ordinary mortals. By and by, with a blush and a falter (for
the mere matter of his personal provision for life seemed so paltry among these world-famed
characters and their great deeds, that he was almost ashamed to allude to it), Robert Wynn
ventured to make his request, that the hon. member for C---- would go to the hon. Secretary
of the Board of Patronage, and claim the fulfilment of his promise. Suddenly the M.P. became
grave and altogether the senator, with his finger thoughtfully upon his brow--the identical
attitude which Grant had commemorated on canvas, beaming from the opposite wall.

