Skag still talked to Kala Khan, as he moved forward.  The Arab stood braced, facing him now--the
tumbled head-down thing to the left, arms sprawled, face turned away.  A thousand to one, among
the best mounts, would have broken before the second charge and thrashed the hanging head against
the ground.

Skag's tones were continuous, his empty hand held out.  There was never a glance of his eye
to the battle of the Dane and the beast.  Four feet from his hand was the hanging rein, his
eyes to the eyes of the black, his tones steadily lower, never rising, never ceasing.  His
loose fingers closed upon the bridle rein; his free hand pressed the Arab's cheek.

He felt Carlin beside him and turned--one of the tremendous moments of life to find her there.
(It was like the last instant of the cobra fight, when he had seen her over the hood--utterly
white, utterly tall.)  She took the rein from his hand.  Her face turned to Nels' struggle--but
her eyes pressed shut.

Skag stepped to Kala Khan's side, lifted the leather fender, slipped the cinch, and let the
light hunting saddle slide over, releasing Ian Deal.  Then he sprang to Nels, calling as he
caught up the fallen lance:

"Coming, old man--coming to you!"

Nels on his feet was bent to the task--the tusker sprawling, the piggy haunches settling flat.

". . . So, it's all done, son," the man said softly.  "You're the best of them all to-day."

He laughed.  Nels looked up at him in a bored way, but he still held. Skag went back to Carlin.
Ian Deal had partly risen.  The American did not catch his eye, and now Kala Khan stood between
them, Carlin still holding the rein.  Skag's hand rested upon the wet trembling withers, where
the saddle had covered.  There was a blue glisten to the moisture.  Skag loved the Arab very
hard that moment, and no less afterward.  Kala Khan needed care at once.  His wound was long
and deep, from the hock on the inside, up to the stifle-joint.

Ian Deal was on his feet, the Arab still between him and Skag's eyes. But now her brother drew
off, back turned, walking away, his arms and hands fumbling queerly about his head, as he staggered
a little.

"He will come back!" Carlin whispered.

Nels loosed now, but sat by his game--sat upon his haunches, bringing first-aid cleansing to
his shoulders and chest, where the pinned tusker had worn against him in the battle. . . .
All in astonishingly few seconds--the blue beast still with an isolated kick or two.

It was as Carlin said.  They had scarcely started toward Hurda before they saw Ian Deal following.
His pace quickened as he neared--his first words queerly shocking:

"Is he hurt--oh, I say--is the Arab hurt?"

Skag answered: "A bad cut, but he'll be sound in a week or two."

"One might ask first, you know.  He's rather a fine thing--"

Carlin seemed paler, as she held her brother with curious eyes.  Ian didn't see her.  He was
slowly taking in Skag, full-length.

"One might ask, you know," he repeated presently.  "One couldn't make a gift of a damaged thing.
Oh, yes, you're to have him, Hantee.  Things of Kala Khan's quality gravitate to you--I was
thinking of the dog, you know--"

Skag shook his head.

"Don't make it harder for me!" Ian said fiercely.  "He belongs to you--Carlin, too, of course--no
resistance of mine left.  A man sees differently--toes up."

Carlin pressed Skag's arm.

The American bowed.  Ian Deal straightened.

"That's better," he breathed.  "You'll see to the mount?  I'd do it for you, but I need an
hour--in here among the trees, you know, alone. . . .  If it isn't quite clear to me, I'll
cock one foot up in the crotch of a tree--until it's straight again. . . .  But it's clear,
Hantee," he added.  "I'm seeing now--the man she sees--or something like!"

Ian turned toward the deeper growths. . . .  They walked in silence. The untellable thing--for
Skag alone--lingered in Carlin's eyes, in the pallor of her face.  She was the one who spoke:

"It is terrible--terribly dear, like a blending of two souls in a white heat together--those
moments at the play-house and now--as you held Kala Khan--"

"It was not one alone," he answered strangely.  "Something from you was with me--half, with mine."

CHAPTER XIII

Neela Deo, King of All Elephants

This is the story of Neela Deo, King of all elephants!  Protector of the Innocent!  Defender
of Defenders!  Equitable King!

For his sake, knowledge of the place where he was known and of those who looked upon his person,
shall go down from generation to generation into the future and shall be continued forever,
under the illumination of his name.

How he preserved the great judge and how he fought that mightiest of all battles, for the honour
of his kind and for the preservation of his liege-son, must be told in order.

The fortune of the season, the features of the town, and the chief names must be established.

See that nothing shall be added.  See that no part be left unspoken. It is the law.

The great rains had passed on their way north; and they had been good to the Central Provinces
country.  The water-courses were even yet but a line below flood; the tanks were full, the
wells abrim.  The earth was clothed with new garmenture.  Jungle creatures were all in their
annual high-carnival.  Life-forces were driving to full speed.

The town of Hurda, on the great triple Highway-of-all-India, clung to the side of her little
river leaning against the massive buttressed walls of her old grey stone terraces, where--on
their wide step-landings--at all seasons, she burned her human dead by the tide's margin.

The great Highway spanned the river on a broad low stone bridge and turned--just south of the
burning ghats--with a majestic sweep northward, between its four lines of sacred, flowering,
perfumed and shade trees.  Remember, those trees were planted by the forgotten peoples of dead
kings, for each within his own realm; they were all nourished under the unfailing rivalry that
the highway of each king should be more excellent in beneficence and in beauty than the highway
of his neighbour kings.

But from High Himalaya to the beaches of Madras, from sea to sea, the triple Highway-of-all-India
was nowhere more august than here, where Neela Deo lived.  The exalted splendours of those
so ancient and imperial trees rendered distinction to the town, in passing through it, like
a procession of the radiant gods.

Beyond the hill and well outside the town--which would be called a city if it were walled,
which would be walled if a wall would not separate it from the great Highway--was the station
Oval, where railway people lived in European bungalows of many colours, round about the gymkhana--a
building made to contain music and strange games; but from the arches of all its verandahs
the railway people saw.

On the other side from the Oval and toward Hurda, was the little old bungalow where Margaret
Annesley--of the tender heart--out of her lonely garden, looked that day and saw.

Across the great Highway from the temple of Manu, the bungalow of Dickson Sahib sheltered under
the mighty sweep of full bearing mango trees.  His small son stood between two teachers in
the deep verandah and beat his hands together while he saw.

At the top of the hill, the bare bungalow of the old missionary Sahib made protest against
the perfume-drunken orient and the colour-mad European world of India with its carbolic-acid
whitewash and chaste lines.  Down the driveway his children ran away from their teachers and saw.

But in sight of the town--as should be--and beside the courts--as should be--stood the austere
home of the Chief Commissioner, most high civil judge of Hurda and all surrounding villages.
One of his deputies leaned from an upper balcony and saw.

Back of his park, more than three quarters of a mile away, were the stockades of the Chief
Commissioner's elephants.  A round parade ground spread its almost level disk straight away
front of the stockade buildings.  Perfectly rimmed by a variety of low jungle growths, nesting
thick at the feet of a circle of tall tamarisk trees, its effect was satisfying to the eye
beyond anything seen about the homes of men.  Nay, the avenues which led up to the palaces
of ancient kings were not so good!

Now all is established concerning the time and the place and those who saw; and it will not
be questioned by any save the very ignorant--who are not considered in the telling of tales.

So in the day of Neela Deo, most exalted King of all elephants, came a runner at the end of
his last strength.  Stripped naked, but for his meagre loincloth, the oils of his body ran
thick down all his limbs and his splitting veins shed blood from his nostrils and from his
mouth. In the market-place he fell and with his last breaths coughed out a broken message.

Many gathered to discover his meaning.  Spread a swift excitement.  The shops were emptied,
the doorways and alleys opened, and streams of people poured out into a common tide.

Perfume dealers brought copper flasks of priceless oils.  Flower merchants gathered up their
entire stock of freshly prepared garlands of marigold and tuberose and jasmine and champak
blooms--banked masses of garlands were hung on scores of scores of reaching arms, lifted to
carry them.  Sixty full pieces of white turban-cloth were caught from the shelves of cloth sellers.

Companies and companies of nautch-girls, with their men-servants and instruments to accompany
them--even the most costly of these, who were also singing women--poured out of the districts
where the towns-women lived and blended in their groups as individual units, in the increasing
surge that flowed out along the great Highway, like a river which had broken its dam.

The multitude followed the great highway past the station oval and turned aside into the open
jungle--deepening, thickening, swelling, teeming forward.  Twenty thousand voices, lifted in
all pitches of the human compass, were caught by tom-toms and the impelling cadence of the
singing nautch-girls--like drift-wood in a swift current--and driven into rhythmic pulsation.

So the people of Hurda went out to meet Neela Deo, King of all elephants.

When the front of the throng went by his place, Hand-of-a-God enquired of running men from
his own gateway.  By his side the Gul Moti stood with Son of Power.  When they understood,
she pushed her chosen of all men through the vine-made arch and he sprang away and ran with
the people.

They shared their garlands with him, that he should not come into Neela Deo's presence with
empty hands; and they exulted because he ran with them, for the fame of Son-of-Power was already
established.

At the margins of the true jungle, a high-tenor voice came out to meet them.  The feeling in
it chained Skag's ear; it was like a strong man contending bravely with his tongue, but calling
on the gods for help, with his heart.  Listening intently, the American began to get the words:

"What are we before thee--oh thou most Exalted!  Children of men, our generations pass before
thee as the seasons.  But thou, oh mighty King--thou Destroyer of the devastator, thou Protector
of our wise judge, blessed among men is he for whom thou hast spilled thy blood! We will send
his name down from generation to generation under the light of thy name!  Thou most Glorious!"

The next words were more difficult to catch:

"Nay, nay! but my beloved, it is a little hurt!  Do I not know, who serve thee?  I whose father
served thee before me--whose father served thee before him?  I whose son shall serve thee after
me?  As my small son lives, he shall serve thee--being come a man--in his day, even as I serve
thee in this my day!"

This was evidently enticing the great creature to live.  But the voice winged away again:

"Ah, thou heart of my heart, thou life of my life!  Hear me, the milk of a thousand goats shall
cool thee.  The petals of a thousand blooms shall comfort thee.  Tuberose and jasmine and champak
shall comfort thee, thou Lover of rare things!  Nay, it is not enough, but the offerings of
the heart's core of love shall satisfy thee--the blood of a million-million blooms shall anoint
thee, to thy refreshment!"

The words were lost for a moment, before they rang again:

"Are not the coverings of our heads upon thy wounds?  Thou, most excellent in majesty!  Have
we not laid the symbols of our honour upon thy wounds?  Thou, with the wisdom of all ages in
thy head and the tenderness of all women in thy heart!  We have seen thee suffer, that he who
is worthy might live!  Thou Discerner of men!  We have seen thee destroy the killer, without
hurt to him who is kind!  Thou Equitable King!"

And slowly out of the shadows of forest trees, came the Chief Commissioner's elephant caravan,
trailing in very dejected formation, behind Neela Deo, who showed naked as to his back--for
his housings had been stripped off him; and as to his neck, for Kudrat Sharif was not on it
but on the ground--walking backward step by step, enticing him with the adoration and sympathy
of his voice.

Sanford Hantee saw Neela Deo stop to receive the first garlands on his trunk.  From there on,
the great elephant paused deliberately after every step to take the offerings of homage from
hundreds of reaching hands.

When the American had laid his garlands over Neela Deo's trunk and was about to make his turn
in the press, he saw the Chief Commissioner himself, walking behind the wounded elephant with
uncovered head. After a keen glance, the great judge motioned Skag to close in by his side.
His strong face was shadowed by deep concern; and for some time he did not speak.  This was
the man of whom Skag had heard that his name was one to conjure with.  His fame was for unfailing
equity, which--together with strange powers of discernment and bewildering kindness--had won
for him the profound devotion of the people.  Skag's thoughts were on these matters when he
heard, on a low explosive breath:

"Most extraordinary thing I've ever seen!"

The Englishman's eye scarcely left the huge figure swaying before him and the distress in his
face was obvious.

"I see you're greatly concerned," Skag said gently.

"Well, you understand, I've jolly good right to be--he saved my life! And he's got a hole in
his neck you can put your head into--only it's filled up and covered up with twenty dirty turbans!
And by the way, you may not know, but it's unwritten law--past touching--the man in this country
never uncovers his head excepting in the presence of his own women.  It's more than a man's
life is worth to knock another's turban off, even by accident.  But look, yonder are the turbans
of my caravan--deputies, law-clerks and servants together--on Neela Deo's neck!  Their heads
are bare before this multitude and without shame. What's one to make of it?  There's no knowing
these people!"

Skag's eye quite unconsciously dropped to the white helmet, carried ceremonially in the hand;
and glancing away quickly, he caught a mounting flush on the stern countenance.

Presently the Chief Commissioner spoke again:

"We were coming in on the best trail through a steady bit of really old tree-jungle--Neela
Deo leading, as always.  We've been out nine weeks from home, among the villages.  It's not
supposed to be spoken, but a stretch like that is rather a grind.  The elephants wanted their
own stockades; they were tired of pickets.  You understand, they're all thoroughly trained.
They answer their individual mahouts like a man's own fingers.  Neela Deo is the only elephant
I've heard of who has been known to run; I mean, to really run--and then only when he's coming
in from too many weeks out.

"Few European men have ever seen an elephant run.  Nothing alive can pass him on the ground
but the great snake.  I stayed on top of Neela Deo once when he ran home.  It was not good
sitting.  I've never cared for the experience again.

"As the jungle began to open toward Hurda, he was nervous.  Of course I should have been more
alive to his behaviour--should have made out what was disturbing him.  If we lose him, I shall
feel very much responsible.  But his mahout was easing him with low chants--made of a thousand
love-words.  They're not bad to think by.  I was clear away off in an adjustment of old Hindu
and British law--you know we have to use both together; and sometimes they're hard to fit.

"I know no more about how it happened than you do.  I was knocked well up out of my abstraction
by a most unmerciful jolt.  Kudrat Sharif had been raked off Neela Deo's neck and was scrambling
to his feet on the ground.  In one glimpse I saw his dothi was torn and a long dripping cut
on one thigh.  He shouted, but I couldn't make it out, because all the elephants were trumpeting
to the universe.

"There are always four hunting pieces in the howdah and I reached for the heaviest automatically,
leaning over to see whatever it was.  There was nothing intelligible in the hell of noise and
nothing in sight.  I tell you, I could not see a hair of any creature under me--but Neela Deo.
And don't fancy Neela Deo was quiet this while.  My howdah was pitching me to the four quarters
of heaven--with no one to tell which next.  Six of the hunters had rifles trained on us, but
I knew they dared not fire for the fear of hitting me or him.  And I'm confident they would
be as ready to do the one as the other.

"Then he began swaying from side to side with me.  It was a frightful jog at first, but he
went more and more evenly, further and further every swing, till I kept myself from spilling
out by the sheer grip of my hands.  The rifles were knocking about loose.

"At last I was up-ended cornerwise and I thought, on my word, I thought my elephant had turned
upside down.  A shriek fairly split my head open and Neela Deo was dancing straight up and
down on one spot.  It was a thorough churning, but it was a change.

"I should say his dance had lasted sixty seconds or more, before he himself spoke; then he
put up his trunk and uttered a long strong blast.  I've never heard anything like it; in eighteen
years among elephants, I've never heard anything like it.

"After that he slowed down and they closed in on him, with weeping and laughter and pandemonium
of demonstrations, mostly without meaning to me, till I climbed down and saw the remains of
what must have been a prime Bengali tiger--under his feet.

"It had charged his neck and gotten a hold and eaten in for the big blood-drink.  It had gripped
and clung with its four feet--there are ghastly enough wounds--but the hole it chewed in his
neck is hideous.

"He poured blood in a shocking stream till they checked it with some kind of jungle leaves
and their turbans.  And you see--he's groggy. He's quite liable to stagger to his knees any
moment.  If he gets in to his own stockades, there may be a chance for him; but he doesn't
look it just now.  Still, I fancy they're keeping him up rather.  Eh?  Oh yes, quite so."

The Chief Commissioner wiped his forehead patiently, before he went on:

"You're an extraordinary young man, Sir.  I've heard about you; the people call you Son-of-Power.
You haven't interrupted me once--not one in twenty could have done it.  I'm glad to know you."

This was spoken very rapidly and Skag smiled:

"I'm interested."

The Chief Commissioner's eyes bored into Skag with almost impersonal penetration, till the
young American knew why this big Englishman's name was one to conjure with.  Then he went on:

"Yes, we'll have much in common.  You see, I'm working it out in my own mind. . . .  The curious
part of it all is, they say an elephant has never been known to behave in this manner before.
The mahouts seem to understand; I don't.  This I do know: When a tiger charges an elephant's
neck, the elephant's way is--if the tiger has gotten in past the thrust of his head--to plunge
dead weight against a big tree, an upstanding rock, or lacking these--the ground.  In that
case he always rolls.  You see where I would have been very much mixed with the tiger.

"In this case, Neela Deo measured his balance on a swing and when he found how far he dare
go, he took his chance and struck the cat off with his own front leg.  It's past belief if
you know an elephant's anatomy."

The Chief Commissioner broke off.  Neela Deo had lurched and was wavering, as if about to go
down.  The sense of tears was in Kudrat Sharif's voice; but it loomed into courage, as it chanted
the superior excellence of Neela Deo's attributes.

Then Neela Deo braced himself and went on, but more slowly.  The big Englishman smiled tenderly:

"He's a white-wizard, is Kudrat Sharif--that mahout!  He does beautiful magic, with his passion
and with his pain.  It's practically worship, you understand; but the point is, it works!

"The mahouts say Neela Deo did the thing for me; stood up and took it, till he could kill the
beast without killing me.  Oh, you'll never convince them otherwise.  They'll make much of
it.  They're already pledged to establish it in tradition--which means more than one would
think.  These mahouts come of lines that know the elephant from before our ancestors were named.
They know him as entirely as men can.  All his customs are common knowledge to them--in all
ordinary and in all extraordinary circumstances.  They say that once in many generations an
elephant appears who is superior to his fellows--he's the one who sometimes surprises them."

The Chief Commissioner stopped, looking into Skag's eyes for a minute, before he finished:

"I'm a Briton, you understand; stubborn to a degree--positively require demonstration.  I'm
not qualified to open the elephant-cult to you--it's as sealed as anything--but I've had bits;
and I recommend you--if you'll permit me--to give courtesy to whatever the mahouts may choose
to tell you.  You'll find it more than interesting."

"I'm very grateful to you," Skag answered.  "I've had a promise of something and I mean to
know more about the mahouts and about elephants."

It was well on in the night when the elephants turned down out of the great highway into their
own stockades.  Neela Deo staggered and swayed ever so slowly forward, with his head low and
his trunk resting heavy and inert on Kudrat Sharif's shoulder; but he got in.

After that no man saw him for sixteen weeks--save the mahouts of his own stockades.  But every
morning the flower merchants sent huge mounds of flower garlands to comfort him.

Then a proclamation was shouted in the marketplace--in the name of the Chief Commissioner--calling
all to come and sit in seats which had been prepared around the parade ground before his elephant
stockades--to witness the celebration of Neela Deo's recovery.  Great was the rejoicing.

Many Europeans of distinction answered the Chief Commissioner's invitation--from as far as
Bombay.  But all the Europeans together looked very few; for from the surrounding villages
and towns and cities, a vast multitude had been flooding in for days.  Sixty-two thousand people
found places in good sight of the arena, in prepared seats.  That number had been reckoned
for; but half as many more thronged the roofs of the stockade buildings and hung--multicoloured
density--from their parapets.  And above all, a few tall tamarisk trees drooped long branches
under hundreds of small boys.

Famous nautch-girls had come from distant cities and trained with those of Hurda for an important
part in the celebration.  They were all staged on twelve Persian-carpeted platforms, ranged
on the ground within the outer edge of the arena and close against the foot of the circular
tier of seats.  Artists of the world had wrought to clothe these women.  Artists in fabric-weaving,
in living singing dyes; in cloths of gold, in pure wrought-gold and in the setting of gems.

People were looking to find the concealed lights which revealed this scene of amazing splendour,
when thirty-nine of the Chief Commissioner's elephants came out through the stockade gates,
single file.  Many drums of different kinds, together with a thousand voices, beat a slow double
pulse.  The elephants, setting their feet precisely to the steady rhythm of it, marched around
the entire arena three times.  Those elephants were perfect enough--and they knew it!  They
were freshly bathed and groomed.  Their ears showed rose-tinted linings, when they flapped.
Their ivories were smooth and pure.  Their howdahs--new-lacquered--gleamed rose and orange
and blue, with crimson and green silk curtains.  Their caparisons of rich velvets, hung heavy
with new gold fringes.

Every elephant turned toward the centre of the arena, coming to pause at his own appointed
station, evenly spaced around the circle.  Then every mahout straightened, freezing to a fixed
position that did not differ by a line from the position of his neighbour on either side. Now
the people saw that this celebration for Neela Deo, King of all elephants, was to show as much
pomp as is prepared for kings of men--and they were deeply content.

The strings of one sitar began to breathe delicate tones.  Other sitars came in illusively,
till they snared the current of human blood in a golden mesh and measured its flow to the time
of mounting emotion. Then Neela Deo himself--Neela Deo, the Blue God!--appeared at the stockade
gates alone, with Kudrat Sharif on his neck.  His caparison was of crimson velvet, all over-wrought
with gold thread.  The gold fringes were a yard deep.  The howdah was lacquered in raw gold--its
curtains were imperial blue.  Kudrat Sharif was clothed in pure thin white--like the son of
a prince--but he was very frail; and ninety-odd thousand people sent his name, with the name
of Neela Deo, up into the Indian night--for the Indian gods to hear.

Neela Deo was barely in on the sanded disk, when the elephants lifted their heads as one and
saluted him with an earth-rocking blast; again and yet again.  Then he thrust his head forward,
reached his trumpet-tip--quivering before him--and made speed till he came close to the Chief
Commissioner's place, where he rendered one soft salute and wheeled into position by the stand.
This was a movement no one had anticipated.  Nothing like it was in the plan; the Chief Commissioner
had not intended to ride!  But Neela Deo demanded him and there was nothing for it but to go;
so with a very white face, he stepped into the howdah.

Waves upon waves of enthusiasm swept the multitude.  They shouted to heaven--for all time it
was established.  No man could ever deny it--Neela Deo himself had made his meaning perfectly
plain, that he had done the marvel thing sixteen weeks before, to save the life of his friend--their
friend!  They stood up and flung their flower-garlands on both of them--as Neela Deo, with
a stately tread, carried the Chief Commissioner around the circle.  The nautch-girls sprang
from their platforms into the middle of the arena and danced their most wonderful dances--tossing
the fallen garlands, like forest fairies at play.

