The monk smiled as he looked at Spring, who had flung himself down to take advantage of the
halt, hanging out his tongue, and panting spasmodically.  "A noble beast," he said, "of the
Windsor breed, is't not?"  Then laying his hand on the graceful head, "Poor old hound, thou
art o'er travelled.  He is aged for such a Journey, if you came from the Forest since morn.
Twelve years at the least, I should say, by his muzzle."

"Your reverence is right," said Stephen, "he is twelve years old.  He is two years younger
than I am, and my father gave him to me when he was a little whelp."

"So thou must needs take him to seek thy fortune with thee," said the good-natured Augustinian,
not knowing how truly he spoke.  "Come in, my lads, here's a drink for him.  What said you
was your uncle's name?" and as Ambrose repeated it, "Birkenholt!  Living on a corrody at Hyde!
Ay! ay!  My lads, I have a call to Winchester to-morrow, you'd best tarry the night here at
Silkstede Grange, and fare forward with me."

The tired boys were heartily glad to accept the invitation, more especially as Spring, happy
as he was with the trough of water before him, seemed almost too tired to stand over it, and
after the first, tried to lap, lying down.  Silkstede was not a regular convent, only a grange
or farmhouse, presided over by one of the monks, with three or four lay brethren under him,
and a little colony of hinds, in the surrounding cottages, to cultivate the farm, and tend
a few cattle and numerous sheep, the special care of the Augustinians.

Father Shoveller, as the good-natured monk who had received the travellers was called, took
them into the spacious but homely chamber which served as refectory, kitchen, and hall.  He
called to the lay brother who was busy over the open hearth to fry a few more rashers of bacon;
and after they had washed away the dust of their Journey at the trough where Spring had slaked
his thirst, they sat down with him to a hearty supper, which smacked more of the grange than
of the monastery, spread on a large solid oak table, and washed down with good ale.  The repast
was shared by the lay brethren and farm servants, and also by two or three big sheep-dogs,
who had to be taught their manners towards Spring.

There was none of the formality that Ambrose was accustomed to at Beaulieu in the great refectory,
where no one spoke, but one of the brethren read aloud some theological book from a stone pulpit
in the wall.  Here Brother Shoveller conversed without stint, chiefly with the brother who
seemed to be a kind of bailiff, with whom he discussed the sheep that were to be taken into
market the next day, and the prices to be given for them by either the college, the castle,
or the butchers of Boucher Row.  He however found time to talk to the two guests, and being
sprung from a family in the immediate neighbourhood, he knew the verdurer's name, and ere he
was a monk, had joined in the chase in the Forest.

There was a little oratory attached to the hall, where he and the lay brethren kept the hours,
to a certain degree, putting two or three services into one, on a liberal interpretation of
laborare est orare. Ambrose's responses made their host observe as they went out, "Thou hast
thy Latin pat, my son, there's the making of a scholar in thee."

Then they took their first night's rest away from home, in a small guest-chamber, with a good
bed, though bare in all other respects. Brother Shoveller likewise had a cell to himself but
the lay brethren slept promiscuously among their sheep-dogs on the floor of the refectory.

All were afoot in the early morning, and Stephen and Ambrose were awakened by the tumultuous
bleatings of the flock of sheep that were being driven from their fold to meet their fate at
Winchester market. They heard Brother Shoveller shouting his orders to the shepherds in tones
a great deal more like those of a farmer than of a monk, and they made haste to dress themselves
and join him as he was muttering a morning abbreviation of his obligatory devotions in the
oratory, observing that they might be in time to hear mass at one of the city churches, but
the sheep might delay them, and they had best break their fast ere starting.

It was Wednesday, a day usually kept as a moderate fast, so the breakfast was of oatmeal porridge,
flavoured with honey, and washed down with mead, after which Brother Shoveller mounted his
mule, a sleek creature, whose long ears had an air of great contentment, and rode off, accommodating
his pace to that of his young companions up a stony cart- track which soon led them to the
top of a chalk down, whence, as in a map, they could see Winchester, surrounded by its walls,
lying in a hollow between the smooth green hills.  At one end rose the castle, its fortifications
covering its own hill, beneath, in the valley, the long, low massive Cathedral, the college
buildings and tower with its pinnacles, and nearer at hand, among the trees, the Almshouse
of Noble Poverty at Saint Cross, beneath the round hill of Saint Catherine. Churches and monastic
buildings stood thickly in the town, and indeed, Brother Shoveller said, shaking his head,
that there were well-nigh as many churches as folk to go to them; the place was decayed since
the time he remembered when Prince Arthur was born there.  Hyde Abbey he could not show them,
from where they stood, as it lay further off by the river side, having been removed from the
neighbourhood of the Minster, because the brethren of Saint Grimbald could not agree with those
of Saint Swithun's belonging to the Minster, as indeed their buildings were so close together
that it was hardly possible to pass between them, and their bells jangled in each other's ears.

Brother Shoveller did not seem to entertain a very high opinion of the monks of Saint Grimbald,
and he asked the boys whether they were expected there.  "No," they said; "tidings of their
father's death had been sent by one of the woodmen, and the only answer that had been returned
was that Master Richard Birkenholt was ill at ease, but would have masses said for his brother's
soul."

"Hem?" said the Augustinian ominously; but at that moment they came up with the sheep, and
his attention was wholly absorbed by them, as he joined the lay brothers in directing the shepherds
who were driving them across the downs, steering them over the high ground towards the arched
West Gate close to the royal castle.  The street sloped rapidly down, and Brother Shoveller
conducted his young companions between the overhanging houses, with stalls between serving
as shops, till they reached the open space round the Market Cross, on the steps of which women
sat with baskets of eggs, butter, and poultry, raised above the motley throng of cattle and
sheep, with their dogs and drivers, the various cries of man and beast forming an incongruous
accompaniment to the bells of the churches that surrounded the market-place.

Citizens' wives in hood and wimple were there, shrilly bargaining for provision for their households,
squires and grooms in quest of hay for their masters' stables, purveyors seeking food for the
garrison, lay brethren and sisters for their convents, and withal, the usual margin of begging
friars, wandering gleemen, jugglers and pedlars, though in no great numbers, as this was only
a Wednesday market-day, not a fair. Ambrose recognised one or two who made part of the crowd
at Beaulieu only two days previously, when he had "seen through tears the juggler leap," and
the jingling tune one of them was playing on a rebeck brought back associations of almost unbearable
pain.  Happily, Father Shoveller, having seen his sheep safely bestowed in a pen, bethought
him of bidding the lay brother in attendance show the young gentlemen the way to Hyde Abbey,
and turning up a street at right angles to the principal one, they were soon out of the throng.

It was a lonely place, with a decayed uninhabited appearance, and Brother Peter told them it
had been the Jewry, whence good King Edward had banished all the unbelieving dogs of Jews,
and where no one chose to dwell after them.

Soon they came in sight of a large extent of monastic buildings, partly of stone, but the more
domestic offices of flint and brick or mortar. Large meadows stretched away to the banks of
the Itchen, with cattle grazing in them, but in one was a set of figures to whom the lay brother
pointed with a laugh of exulting censure.

"Long bows!" exclaimed Stephen.  "Who be they?"

"Brethren of Saint Grimbald, sir.  Such rule doth my Lord of Hyde keep, mitred abbot though
he be.  They say the good bishop hath called him to order, but what recks he of bishops?  Good-day,
Brother Bulpett, here be two young kinsmen of Master Birkenholt to visit him; and so benedicite,
fair sirs.  Saint Austin's grace be with you!"

Through a gate between two little red octagonal towers, Brother Bulpett led the two visitors,
and called to another of the monks, "Benedicite, Father Segrim, here be two striplings wanting
speech of old Birkenholt."

"Looking after dead men's shoes, I trow," muttered Father Segrim, with a sour look at the lads,
as he led them through the outer court, where some fine horses were being groomed, and then
across a second court surrounded with a beautiful cloister, with flower beds in front of it.
Here, on a stone bench, in the sun, clad in a gown furred with rabbit skin, sat a decrepit
old man, both his hands clasped over his staff. Into his deaf ears their guide shouted, "These
boys say they are your kindred, Master Birkenholt."

"Anan?" said the old man, trembling with palsy.  The lads knew him to be older than their father,
but they were taken by surprise at such feebleness, and the monk did not aid them, only saying
roughly, "There he is.  Tell your errand."

"How fares it with you, uncle?" ventured Ambrose.

"Who be ye?  I know none of you," muttered the old man, shaking his head still more.

"We are Ambrose and Stephen from the Forest," shouted Ambrose.

"Ah Steve! poor Stevie!  The accursed boar has rent his goodly face so as I would never have
known him.  Poor Steve!  Rest his soul!"

The old man began to weep, while his nephews recollected that they had heard that another uncle
had been slain by the tusk of a wild boar in early manhood.  Then to their surprise, his eyes
fell on Spring, and calling the hound by name, he caressed the creature's head--"Spring, poor
Spring!  Stevie's faithful old dog.  Hast lost thy master?  Wilt follow me now?"

He was thinking of a Spring as well as of a Stevie of sixty years ago, and he babbled on of
how many fawns were in the Queen's Bower this summer, and who had best shot at the butts at
Lyndhurst, as if he were excited by the breath of his native Forest, but there was no making
him understand that he was speaking with his nephews.  The name of his brother John only set
him repeating that John loved the greenwood, and would be content to take poor Stevie's place
and dwell in the verdurer's lodge; but that he himself ought to be abroad, he had seen brave
Lord Talbot's ships ready at Southampton, John might stay at home, but he would win fame and
honour in Gascony.

And while he thus wandered, and the boys stood by perplexed and distressed, Brother Segrim
came back, and said, "So, young sirs, have you seen enough of your doting kinsman?  The sub-prior
bids me say that we harbour no strange, idling, lubber lads nor strange dogs here.  'Tis enough
for us to be saddled with dissolute old men-at-arms without all their idle kin making an excuse
to come and pay their devoirs.  These corrodies are a heavy charge and a weighty abuse, and
if there be the visitation the king's majesty speaks of they will be one of the first matters
to be amended."

Wherewith Stephen and Ambrose found themselves walked out of the cloister of Saint Grimbald,
and the gates shut behind them.

CHAPTER THREE.

KINSMEN AND STRANGERS.

  "The reul of Saint Maure and of Saint Beneit
  Because that it was old and some deale streit
  This ilke monk let old things pace
  He held ever of the new world the trace."
  Chaucer.

"The churls!" exclaimed Stephen.

"Poor old man!" said Ambrose; "I hope they are good to him!"

"To think that thus ends all that once was gallant talk of fighting under Talbot's banner,"
sighed Stephen, thoughtful for a moment. "However, there's a good deal to come first."

"Yea, and what next?" said the elder brother.

"On to uncle Hal.  I ever looked most to him.  He will purvey me to a page's place in some
noble household, and get thee a clerk's or scholar's place in my Lord of York's house.  Mayhap
there will be room for us both there, for my Lord of York hath a goodly following of armed men."

"Which way lies the road to London?"

"We must back into the town and ask, as well as fill our stomachs and our wallets," said Ambrose.
"Talk of their rule!  The entertaining of strangers is better understood at Silkstede than
at Hyde."

"Tush!  A grudged crust sticks in the gullet," returned Stephen.  "Come on, Ambrose, I marked
the sign of the White Hart by the market-place. There will be a welcome there for foresters."

They returned on their steps past the dilapidated buildings of the old Jewry, and presently
saw the market in full activity; but the sounds and sights of busy life where they were utter
strangers, gave Ambrose a sense of loneliness and desertion, and his heart sank as the bolder
Stephen threaded the way in the direction of a broad entry over which stood a slender-bodied
hart with gold hoofs, horns, collar, and chain.

"How now, my sons?" said a full cheery voice, and to their joy, they found themselves pushed
up against Father Shoveller.

"Returned already!  Did you get scant welcome at Hyde?  Here, come where we can get a free
breath, and tell me."

They passed through the open gateway of the White Hart, into the court, but before listening
to them, the monk exchanged greetings with the hostess, who stood at the door in a broad hat
and velvet bodice, and demanded what cheer there was for noon-meat.

"A jack, reverend sir, eels and a grampus fresh sent up from Hampton; also fresh-killed mutton
for such lay folk as are not curious of the Wednesday fast.  They are laying the board even now."

"Lay platters for me and these two young gentlemen," said the Augustinian.  "Ye be my guests,
ye wot," he added, "since ye tarried not for meat at Hyde."

"Nor did they ask us," exclaimed Stephen; "lubbers and idlers were the best words they had for us."

"Ho! ho!  That's the way with the brethren of Saint Grimbald!  And your uncle?"

"Alas, sir, he doteth with age," said Ambrose.  "He took Stephen for his own brother, dead
under King Harry of Windsor."

"So!  I had heard somewhat of his age and sickness.  Who was it who thrust you out?"

"A lean brother with a thin red beard, and a shrewd, puckered visage."

"Ha!  By that token 'twas Segrim the bursar.  He wots how to drive a bargain.  Saint Austin!
but he deemed you came to look after your kinsman's corrody."

"He said the king spake of a visitation to abolish corrodies from religious houses," said Ambrose.

"He'll abolish the long bow from them first," said Father Shoveller. "Ay, and miniver from
my Lord Abbot's hood.  I'd admonish you, my good brethren of Saint Grimbald, to be in no hurry
for a visitation which might scarce stop where you would fain have it.  Well, my sons, are
ye bound for the Forest again?  An ye be, we'll wend back together, and ye can lie at Silkstede
to-night."

"Alack, kind father, there's no more home for us in the Forest," said Ambrose.

"Methought ye had a brother?"

"Yea; but our brother hath a wife."

"Ho! ho!  And the wife will none of you?"

"She would have kept Ambrose to teach her boy his primer," said Stephen; "but she would none
of Spring nor of me."

"We hoped to receive counsel from our uncle at Hyde," added Ambrose.

"Have ye no purpose now?" inquired the Father, his jolly good-humoured face showing much concern.

"Yea," manfully returned Stephen.  "'Twas what I ever hoped to do, to fare on and seek our
fortune in London."

"Ha!  To pick up gold and silver like Dick Whittington.  Poor old Spring here will scarce do
you the part of his cat," and the monk's hearty laugh angered Stephen into muttering, "We are
no fools," but Father Shoveller only laughed the more, saying, "Fair and softly, my son, ye'll
never pick up the gold if ye cannot brook a kindly quip.  Have you friends or kindred in London?"

"Yea, that have we, sir," cried Stephen; "our mother's own brother, Master Randall, hath come
to preferment there in my Lord Archbishop of York's household, and hath sent us tokens from
time to time, which we will show you."

"Not while we be feasting," said Father Shoveller, hastily checking Ambrose, who was feeling
in his bosom.  "See, the knaves be bringing their grampus across the court.  Here, we'll clean
our hands, and be ready for the meal;" and he showed them, under a projecting gallery in the
inn yard a stone trough, through which flowed a stream of water, in which he proceeded to wash
his hands and face, and to wipe them in a coarse towel suspended nigh at hand.  Certainly after
handling sheep freely there was need, though such ablutions were a refinement not indulged
in by all the company who assembled round the well-spread board of the White Hart for the meal
after the market.  They were a motley company.  By the host's side sat a knight on his way
home from pilgrimage to Compostella, or perhaps a mission to Spain, with a couple of squires
and other attendants, and converse of political import seemed to be passing between him and
a shrewd-looking man in a lawyer's hood and gown, the recorder of Winchester, who preferred
being a daily guest at the White Hart to keeping a table of his own.  Country franklins and
yeomen, merchants and men-at-arms, palmers and craftsmen, friars and monks, black, white, and
grey, and with almost all, Father Shoveller had greeting or converse to exchange.  He knew
everybody, and had friendly talk with all, on canons or crops, on war or wool, on the prices
of pigs or prisoners, on the news of the country side, or on the perilous innovations in learning
at Oxford, which might, it was feared, even affect Saint Mary's College at Winchester.

He did not affect outlandish fishes himself, and dined upon pike, but observing the curiosity
of his guests, he took good care to have them well supplied with grampus; also in due time
with varieties of the pudding and cake kind which had never dawned on their forest--bred imagination,
and with a due proportion of good ale--the same over which the knight might be heard rejoicing,
and lauding far above the Spanish or French wines, on which he said he had been half starved.

Father Shoveller mused a good deal over his pike and its savoury stuffing.  He was not by any
means an ideal monk, but he was equally far from being a scandal.  He was the shrewd man of
business and manager of his fraternity, conducting the farming operations and making all the
bargains, following his rule respectably according to the ordinary standard of his time, but
not rising to any spirituality, and while duly observing the fast day, as to the quality of
his food, eating with the appetite of a man who lived in the open fields.

But when their hunger was appeased, with many a fragment given to Spring, the young Birkenholts,
wearied of the endless talk that was exchanged over the tankard, began to grow restless, and
after exchanging signs across Father Shoveller's solid person, they simultaneously rose, and
began to thank him and say they must pursue their journey.

"How now, not so fast, my sons," said the Father; "tarry a bit, I have more to say to thee.
Prayers and provender, thou knowst--I'll come anon.  So, sir, didst say yonder beggarly Flemings
haggle at thy price for thy Southdown fleeces.  Weight of dirt forsooth!  Do not we wash the
sheep in the Poolhole stream, the purest water in the shire?"

Manners withheld Ambrose from responding to Stephen's hot impatience, while the merchant in
the sleek puce-coloured coat discussed the Flemish wool market with the monk for a good half-hour
longer.

By this time the knight's horses were brought into the yard, and the merchant's men had made
ready his palfrey, his pack-horse being already on the way; the host's son came round with
the reckoning, and there was a general move.  Stephen expected to escape, and hardly could
brook the good-natured authority with which Father Shoveller put Ambrose aside, when he would
have discharged their share of the reckoning, and took it upon himself.  "Said I not ye were
my guests?" quoth he.  "We missed our morning mass, it will do us no harm to hear Nones in
the Minster."

"Sir, we thank you, but we should be on our way," said Ambrose, incited by Stephen's impatient
gestures.

"Tut, tut.  Fair and softly, my son, or more haste may be worse speed. Methought ye had somewhat
to show me."

Stephen's youthful independence might chafe, but the habit of submission to authorities made
him obediently follow the monk out at the back entrance of the inn, behind which lay the Minster
yard, the grand western front rising in front of them, and the buildings of Saint Swithun's
Abbey extending far to their right.  The hour was nearly noon, and the space was deserted,
except for an old woman sitting at the great western doorway with a basket of rosaries made
of nuts and of snail shells, and a workman or two employed on the bishop's new reredos.

"Now for thy tokens," said Father Shoveller.  "See my young foresters, ye be new to the world.
Take an old man's counsel, and never show, nor speak of such gear in an hostel.  Mine host
of the White Hart is an old gossip of mine, and indifferent honest, but who shall say who might
be within earshot?"

Stephen had a mind to say that he did not see why the meddling monk should wish to see them
at all, and Ambrose looked a little reluctant, but Father Shoveller said in his good-humoured
way, "As you please, young sirs.  'Tis but an old man's wish to see whether he can do aught
to help you, that you be not as lambs among wolves.  Mayhap ye deem ye can walk into London
town, and that the first man you meet can point you to your uncle--Randall call ye him?--as
readily as I could show you my brother, Thomas Shoveller of Cranbury.  But you are just as
like to meet with some knave who might cozen you of all you have, or mayhap a beadle might
take you up for vagabonds, and thrust you in the stocks, or ever you get to London town; so
I would fain give you some commendation, an I knew to whom to make it, and ye be not too proud
to take it."

"You are but too good to us, sir," said Ambrose, quite conquered, though Stephen only half
believed in the difficulties.  The Father took them within the west door of the Minster, and
looking up and down the long arcade of the southern aisle to see that no one was watching,
he inspected the tokens, and cross-examined them on their knowledge of their uncle.

His latest gift, the rosary, had come by the hand of Friar Hurst, a begging Minorite of Southampton,
who had it from another of his order at Winchester, who had received it from one of the king's
archers at the Castle, with a message to Mistress Birkenholt that it came from her brother,
Master Randall, who had good preferment in London, in the house of my Lord Archbishop of York,
without whose counsel King Henry never stirred.  As to the coming of the agate and the pouncet
box, the minds of the boys were very hazy.  They knew that the pouncet box had been conveyed
through the attendants of the Abbot of Beaulieu, but they were only sure that from that time
the belief had prevailed with their mother that her brother was prospering in the house of
the all-powerful Wolsey. The good Augustinian, examining the tokens, thought they gave colour
to that opinion.  The rosary and agate might have been picked up in an ecclesiastical household,
and the lid of the pouncet box was made of a Spanish coin, likely to have come through some
of the attendants of Queen Katharine.

"It hath an appearance," he said.  "I marvel whether there be still at the Castle this archer
who hath had speech with Master Randall, for if ye know no more than ye do at present, 'tis
seeking a needle in a bottle of hay.  But see, here come the brethren that be to sing Nones--sinner
that I am, to have said no Hours since the morn, being letted with lawful business."

Again the unwilling Stephen had to submit.  There was no feeling for the incongruous in those
days, and reverence took very different directions from those in which it now shows itself,
so that nobody had any objection to Spring's pacing gravely with the others towards the Lady
Chapel, where the Hours were sung, since the Choir was in the hands of workmen, and the sound
of chipping stone could be heard from it, where Bishop Fox's elaborate lace-work reredos was
in course of erection. Passing the shrine of Saint Swithun, and the grand tomb of Cardinal
Beaufort, where his life-coloured effigy filled the boys with wonder, they followed their leader's
example, and knelt within the Lady Chapel, while the brief Latin service for the ninth hour
was sung through by the canon, clerks, and boys.  It really was the Sixth, but cumulative easy-
going treatment of the Breviary had made this the usual time for it, as the name of noon still
testifies.  The boys' attention, it must be confessed, was chiefly expended on the wonderful
miracles of the Blessed Virgin in fresco on the walls of the chapel, all tending to prove that
here was hope for those who said their Ave in any extremity of fire or flood.

Nones ended, Father Shoveller, with many a halt for greeting or for gossip, took the lads up
the hill towards the wide fortified space where the old Castle and royal Hall of Henry of Winchester
looked down on the city, and after some friendly passages with the warder at the gate, Father
Shoveller explained that he was in quest of some one recently come from court, of whom the
striplings in his company could make inquiry concerning a kinsman in the household of my Lord
Archbishop of York.  The warder scratched his head, and bethinking himself that Eastcheap Jockey
was the reverend father's man, summoned a horse-boy to call that worthy.

"Where was he?"

"Sitting over his pottle in the Hall," was the reply, and the monk, with a laugh savouring
little of asceticism, said he would seek him there, and accordingly crossed the court to the
noble Hall, with its lofty dark marble columns, and the Round Table of King Arthur suspended
at the upper end.  The governor of the Castle had risen from his meal long ago, but the garrison
in the piping times of peace would make their ration of ale last as far into the afternoon
as their commanders would suffer. And half a dozen men still sat there, one or two snoring,
two playing at dice on a clear corner of the board, and another, a smart well-dressed fellow
in a bright scarlet jerkin, laying down the law to a country bumpkin, who looked somewhat dazed.
The first of these was, as it appeared, Eastcheap Jockey, and there was something both of the
readiness and the impudence of the Londoner in his manner, when he turned to answer the question.
He knew many in my Lord of York's house--as many as a man was like to know where there was
a matter of two hundred folk between clerks and soldiers, he had often crushed a pottle with
them.  No; he had never heard of one called Randall, neither in hat nor cowl, but he knew more
of them by face than by name, and more by by name than surname or christened name.  He was
certainly not the archer who had brought a token for Mistress Birkenholt, and his comrades
all avouched equal ignorance on the subject.  Nothing could be gained there, and while Father
Shoveller rubbed his bald head in consideration, Stephen rose to take leave.

"Look you here, my fair son," said the monk.  "Starting at this hour, though the days be long,
you will not reach any safe halting place with daylight, whereas by lying a night in this good
city, you might reach Alton to-morrow, and there is a home where the name of Brother Shoveller
will win you free lodging and entertainment."

"And to-night, good Father?" inquired Ambrose.

"That will I see to, if ye will follow me."

Stephen was devoured with impatience during the farewells in the Castle, but Ambrose represented
that the good man was giving them much of his time, and that it would be unseemly and ungrateful
to break from him.

"What matter is it of his?  And why should he make us lose a whole day?" grumbled Stephen.

"What special gain would a day be to us?" sighed Ambrose.  "I am thankful that any should take
heed for us."

"Ay, you love leading-strings," returned Stephen.  "Where is he going now?  All out of our way!"

Father Shoveller, however, as he went down the Castle hill, explained that the Warden of Saint
Elizabeth's Hospital was his friend, and knowing him to have acquaintance among the clergy
of Saint Paul's, it would be well to obtain a letter of commendation from him, which might
serve them in good stead in case they were disappointed of finding their uncle at once.

"It would be better for Spring to have a little more rest," thought Stephen, thus mitigating
his own longing to escape from the monks and friars, of whom Winchester seemed to be full.

They had a kindly welcome in the pretty little college of Saint Elizabeth of Hungary, lying
in the meadows between William of Wykeham's College and the round hill of Saint Catherine.
The Warden was a more scholarly and ecclesiastical-looking person than his friend, the good-
natured Augustinian.  After commending them to his care, and partaking of a drink of mead,
the monk of Silkstede took leave of the youths, with a hearty blessing and advice to husband
their few crowns, not to tell every one of their tokens, and to follow the counsel of the Warden
of Saint Elizabeth's, assuring them that if they turned back to the Forest they should have
a welcome at Silkstede.  Moreover he patted Spring pitifully, and wished him and his master
well through the journey.

