The Editor of The Times declined to dogmatize on the subject. He pointed out however that the
average height of the Yugo-Slavs exceeded that of the Welsh. The claims of small nations could
not, of course, be overlooked, but he considered it as little short of a calamity when a Great
Power had an undersized Prime Minister. Short men liked short cuts, but, as BACON said, the
shortest way is commonly the foulest.

Dr. ROBERT BRIDGES (the Poet-Laureate) writes to say that, having given special study to the
hexameter, he was much interested to find that the measure now in vogue amongst bishops was
that of six feet and over. He hoped to treat the subject exhaustively in his forthcoming treatise
on Ecclesiastical Prosody.

Colonel L. C. AMERY, M.P., strongly deprecated the attempt to identify excessive height with
extreme efficiency. In the election to Fellowships at All Souls no height limit was imposed.
NAPOLEON and the late Lord ROBERTS were both small men, and he believed that the remarkable
elusiveness displayed by Colonel LAWRENCE in the War was greatly facilitated by his diminutive
stature. The testimony of literature throughout the ages was almost unanimous in its condemnation
of giants. He had never heard of a small ogre. On the subject of SHAKESPEARE'S height he could
not speak with assurance, but KEATS was only just over five feet. Jumbomania, or the worship
of mammoth dimensions, was a modern disease. Far better was the philosophy crystallised in
such immortal sayings as "Love me little, love me long," and "Infinite riches in a little room."

Mr. MALLABY-DEELEY, M.P., observed that, man being an imitative animal and bishops being regarded
by many as good examples, there seemed to him a serious danger of an epidemic of what he might
call Brobdingnagitis. Fortunately the results would not be immediately apparent, otherwise
he would be compelled to raise his tariff for cheap suits. A rise of six inches in the average
height of his customers would throw out all his calculations and eat up the modest margin of
profit which he now allowed himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The weather of the week has been characteristic of the
    month. A dawn breaks with a fair sunset."--Scotch
    Paper.

Of course this happens only very far North.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAFETY PLAY.

(According to local legend, Whitby Abbey possesses a ghost which only appears in a blaze of
sunshine).

    MEN there may be so immune from timidity
      Never a spectre could fill them with fright,
    Men who could keep their accustomed placidity
      Were they to meet in the gloom of the night
    Lady Hermione tramping the corridor,
      Wicked Sir Guy with his fetters adrag,
    Or a plebeian who shrieked something horrid or
      Carried his head in a vanity bag.

    Not such am I. Every hair at the vertical,
      I should resort to hysterical screams
    Did a diaphanous Lady (or Sir) tickle
      Me on the cheek in the midst of my dreams;
    Yet when, at Yule, I hear people converse on all
      Manner of spooks round the log in the grate,
    Often I wish that I too had a personal
      Psychic experience I could relate.

    I am a coward when midnight looms murkily,
      But when the sunlight of noon's at its best
    I could face calmly--I'd even say perkily--
      Nebulous figures as well as the rest;
    So I'll to Whitby, and (on the hypothesis
      That she'll obligingly come to me there)
    Wait in its abbey (see text). By my troth, this is
      Just such a ghost as I'm ready to dare.

       *       *       *       *       *

MASCULINE MODES.

BY BEAU BRUMMEL.

THE news that the price of lounge suits will have risen to twenty-four pounds by the autumn
has created something of a sartorial panic in the City and the West End.

Famous old wardrobes are being broken up on all sides by owners anxious to acquire fresh clothing
before it is too late, whilst the small properties thus created find eager tenants amongst
those who cannot afford a new outfit at all.

Many tailors who have built new suits are beginning to dispose of them on three or five year
repairing leases, and possession of these may sometimes be secured from the present occupiers
on payment of a substantial premium.

Gentlemen possessing both town and country sets of suitings are in many cases letting the latter
in order to come up to London for the season, whilst others are resorting to various economical
artifices to meet the crisis. Plus four golf knickers, let down, make admirable wedding trousers
for a short man, and many are the old college blazers dyed black and doing duty as natty pea-jackets.

In the City, of course, fustian and corduroys are almost the only wear, and there is much divergence
of opinion on the Stock Exchange as to the best knot for spotted red neckerchiefs and the proper
way of tying the difficult little bow beneath the knees.

In Parliament, where of course the old costly fashions have long been out of vogue, the change
is equally noticeable. Lord ROBERT CECIL, for instance, habitually wears the white canvas suit
in which Mr. AUGUSTUS JOHN painted him; Lord BIRKENHEAD mounts the Woolsack in an old cassock,
which, as he points out, not only allows a very scanty attire underneath it, but gives him
particular confidence in elucidating St. Matthew; while the PRIME MINISTER himself set off
for San Remo in a simple set of striped sackcloth dittos. Many Members are having their old
pre-war morning coats turned; Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL in machine-gun overalls, Mr. MALLABY-DEELEY
self-dressed, Sir EDWARD CARSON in a simple union suit, are conspicuous figures, and Mr. HORATIO
BOTTOMLEY by a whimsical yet thrifty fancy often attends the House in the humble attire of
the Weaver in A Midsummer Night's Dream.

Even in the Welsh collieries it is becoming the habit to go down the pits in rough home-spun,
and reserving the top hat, morning coat and check trousers for striking in.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"DENIKIN TIRED.

    LOOKING FOR A LITTLE HOUSE IN ENGLAND."

    Evening Standard.

The gallant General is not the only one who is worn out with this hopeless task.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Sir John Cadman, head of the British Oil Department,
    has left Birmingham for San Remo."--Evening Paper.

Was this the last hope of restoring calm to the "troubled waters"?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "He has represented Lowestoft at St. Stephen's--one of
    the most important fishing centres in the country--for
    many years past."

    Daily Paper.

The House of Commons seems to have been confused with Izaak Walton Heath.

       *       *       *       *       *

"LADIES' GOLF AT RANELAGH.

    Miss ---- played badly and tore up her card as well as
    many other ladies of note."

    Provincial Paper.

But it is hoped that this method of thinning out the competitors will not be generally resorted to.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MURAL TEACHING.

    Speaking at Manchester last night Lord Haldane advocated
    a great and new national reform by enabling the
    Universities to train the best teachers of their own
    level to go out and do extra Mural teaching on a huge
    scale."

    Provincial Paper.

We gather that in our contemporary's opinion it is high time that our Universities recognised
"the writing on the wall."

       *       *       *       *       *

A VANISHED SPECIES.

THE great auk is but a memory; the bittern booms more rarely in our eastern marshes; and now
they tell me Brigadiers are extinct. Handsomest and liveliest of our indigenous fauna, the
bright beady eye, the flirt of the trench coat-tail through the undergrowth, the glint of red
betwixt the boughs, the sudden piercing pipe--how well I knew them, how often I have lain hidden
in thickets and behind hedgerows to study them more closely. How inquisitive the creature was,
yet how seldom would it feed from the hand. And now, it seems, they are gone.

Vainly I rack my brains to envisage the manner of their passing. Is there to be nothing left
but silence and a shadow or a specimen in a dusty case of glass preserved in creosol and stuffed
with lime? Or did not the Brigadiers rather, when they felt their last hour was upon them,
retire like the elephants of the jungle to some distant spot and shuffle off the mortal coil
in the midst of Salisbury Plain or (for so I still picture it despite the ravages of a rude
commercialism) the vast solitude of Slough?

Or it may be that they underwent some classic metamorphosis, translated to a rainless paradise,
where they dreamed of battalions for ever inspected and the general salute eternally blown.

  "And there, they say, two bright and agéd snakes
  Who once were brigadiers of infantry
  Bask in the sun."

Anyhow, I cannot believe that ex-Brigadiers die. They only fade away. Fade away, I think, like
the Cheshire Cat in Alice in Wonderland, leaving at the last not a grin but a scowl behind
them. "Brigadiers will fade away," I imagine, ran the instruction from the Army Council, "passing
the vanishing point in the following order:--

    (1) Spurs.
    (2) Field Boots.
    (3) Main body.
    (4) Brass hat.
    (5) Scowl."

But oh, how they will be missed, with their insatiable hunger for replies! I remember one in
particular, very fierce and black-moustached, who used to pop up suddenly from behind a Loamshire
hedge with an enormous note-book in his hand and say to unhappy company commanders, "The situation
is so-and-so and so-and-so; now let me hear you give your orders." And the Company-Commander,
who would have liked to read through Infantry Training once or twice and then hold a sort of
inter-allied conference with his Platoon-Commander, putting the Company Sergeant-Major in the
chair, felt that after frightfulness of this kind mere actual war would probably be child's-play.
And yet they tell me he was a pleasant enough fellow in the Mess, this Brigadier, and liked
good cooking. Now I come to think of it, he faded away before the War came to an end. He faded
away into a Major-General.

How different from this sort was the type that could always be placated by a glittering bayonet
charge or a thoroughly smart salute! I remember one of this kind who came charging across the
landscape, his Staff Captain at his heels, to a point where he saw a friend of mine apparently
lost in meditation and sloth. Unfortunately the great man's horse betrayed him as he tried
to jump a low hedge, and, when he had clambered up again and arrived in a rather tumbled condition
to ask indignantly what had happened to the scouts, "They have established a number of hidden
observation posts," my friend replied, keeping his presence of mind, "and are making an exact
report of everything that transpires on the enemy's front," and he waved his arm towards the
scene of the catastrophe. It was not thought necessary to examine their notes.

In France Brigadiers were mainly divided into the sort that came round the front line themselves,
and the sort that sent the Brigade-major or somebody else who had broken out into a frontal
inflammation to do it for them. It is difficult to say which genus was the more alarming.

The first was apt to exhibit its contempt for danger by strolling about in perilous places
for five minutes and leaving them to be shelled in consequence for a week.

The second sort was apt to issue orders depending for fulfilment on a faulty map reference
or a landmark which had been carelessly removed by an H.E. shell. One of the most intransigeant
of this kind whom I remember could always, however, be softened by souvenirs; a cast-off Uhlan's
lance or the rifle of a Bosch sniper went far to console him for the barrenness of a patrol
report. I feel sure he must have faded at Slough.

But it was in battle that their wild appetite for information was most amazingly displayed.
At moments when nobody knew where anybody else was or whether the ground underneath him was
likely to remain in that sector more than a few moments or be detached and transferred to another,
they would send by telephone or by a runner wild messages for an exact résumé of the situation.
It was at such times, I think, that some of those eminent war correspondents recently knighted
would have done yeoman service in the front line. I can imagine them telephoning somewhat after
this manner, in answer to the querulous voice:--

    "All hell has broken loose in front of us. The earth
    shivers as if a volcano is beneath our feet. The
    pock-marked ridges in the distance are covered with the
    advancing waves of field-grey forms. Our boys are going
    up happily shouting and singing to the battle. Sorry, I
    didn't quite catch what you said about being in touch on
    the right. The brazen roar of the cannon is mingled with
    the intermittent rattle of innumerable machine guns. Eh,
    what? What?"

Yes, I think the Brigadiers would have liked that. But, alas, it could not be. And now they
have gone, with their passion for questions, never to return, or never till the next A.C.I.
cancels the last. Ah, well.

    EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

A COUNTRY NIGHT PIECE.

  THE darkness my footsteps were swathed in
    Is drenched with a luminous spray;
  For a chain's length the kerbstone is bathed in
    A spindrift of silvery grey;
  By the roadside is mistily glimmering
    A wall phosphorescent with pearls,
  All glancing and dancing and shimmering
    Like star-dust that swirls.

  Where the high-road dips down to the dingle,
    A coppice in arabesque gleams
  Whose traceries melt and commingle,
    Like ghost trees in moon-fretted streams,
  As the tremulous glamour sweeps o'er it
    And skirts the inscrutable sky;
  Then, Fairyland flitting before it,
    The car flashes by.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sport in Ireland.

    "In a collision between his vehicle and a tramcar
    yesterday a passenger was injured and removed to
    hospital.

    For other Sporting News see Page 6."

    Irish Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "----'S SIPPING AGENCY, LTD."

    Le Réveil (Beyrouth).

A popular establishment, we feel confident.

       *       *       *       *       *

    ]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TAKING OF TIMOTHY.

TEA was over, a clearing was made of the articles of more fragile virtue, and Timothy, entering
in state, was off-loaded from his nurse's arms into his mother's.

"Isn't he looking sweet to-day?" said Suzanne. "It's really time we had him photographed."

"Why?" I asked.

"Well, why do people as a rule get photographed?"

"That," I said, "is a question I have often asked myself, but without finding a satisfactory
answer. What do you propose to do with the copies?"

"There are dozens of people who'll be only too glad to have them. Aunt Caroline, for instance----"

"Aunt Caroline one day took me into her confidence and showed me what she called her scrap-heap.
It was a big box full of photographs that had been presented to her from time to time, and
she calculated that if she had had them all framed, as their donors had doubtless expected,
it would have cost her some hundreds of pounds. While her back was turned I looked through
the collection. Your photograph was there--and mine, Suzanne."

"Anyhow, we shall want one to keep ourselves. Think what a pleasure it will be to him when
he grows up to see what he looked like as a tiny baby."

I called to mind an ancestral album belonging to my own family that I had carefully kept guarded
from Suzanne precisely for the reason that it contained various presentments of myself at early
ages in mirth-compelling garments and attitudes; but of course I could not now urge that chamber
of horrors in opposition to her demand.

"Besides," she went on, "we needn't buy any copies at all if we don't like them. Snapper and
Klick are continually worrying me to have Baby taken. Once a week regularly, ever since the
announcement of his birth appeared, they've rung me up to ask when he will give them a sitting.
Sometimes it's Snapper and sometimes it's Klick; I don't know which is which, but one of them
has adenoids. We can't do any harm by taking him there, because they say in their circulars
they present two copies free and there's no obligation to purchase any."

"I wonder how they make that pay?"

"Oh," said Suzanne, "they keep the copyright, you know, and then when he does anything famous
they send it round to the illustrated papers, which pay them no end of money for permission
to reproduce it."

"But by the time he does anything famous," I objected, "won't this photograph be a trifle out
of date? Supposing, for instance, in twenty or thirty years' time he marries a Movie Queen----"

Just then the telephone-bell rang, and Suzanne, as is her wont, rushed to answer it, dropping
Timothy into my arms on the way.

"Hello!" I heard her say. "Yes; speaking. Yes, I was just going to write. Yes; that will do
quite well. What? Yes, about eleven. Good-bye."

"Not another appointment with the dressmaker?" I inquired.

"No. Curiously enough it was Klick again--or Snapper--and his adenoids are worse than ever;
I suppose it's the damp weather gets into them. So I said we'd take Baby to-morrow."

"I don't quite see the connection," I said. "Besides, aren't they catching?"

"Now you're being funny again. Save that up for to-morrow."

"What do you mean?" I asked in some alarm. "And why did you say we'd take Baby?"

"Why, of course you've got to come too. You can always make him laugh better than anyone else;
it's your métier. And I do want his delicious little dimples to come out."

"Do I understand that I'm to go through my répertoire in cold blood and under the unsympathetic
gaze of Messrs. Snapper and Klick? Suzanne, it can't be done."

"Oh, nonsense! You've only got to sing Pop Goes the Weasel in a falsetto voice and make one
of those comic faces you do so well, and he'll gurgle at once. Well, that's settled. We start
at half-past ten to-morrow."

The coming ordeal so preyed upon my mind that I spent a most restless night, during which,
so Suzanne afterwards told me, I announced at frequent intervals the popping of the weasel.
The day dawned with a steady drizzle of rain, and, after a poor attempt at breakfast, I scoured
the neighbourhood for a taxi. Having at last run one to earth, I packed the expedition into
it--Suzanne, Timothy, Timothy's nurse and Barbara (who begged so hard to be allowed to "come
and see Father make faces at Baby" that Suzanne weakly consented).

Arrived at our destination, Suzanne bade the driver wait. "We shall never find another cab
to take us home in this downpour," she said, "and we shan't be kept long."

We were ushered into the studio by a gentleman I now know to have been Mr. Klick. He aroused
my distrust at once by the fact that he did not wear a velvet coat, and I pointed out this
artistic deficiency in a whisper to Suzanne.

"Never mind," she whispered back; "we needn't buy any if they're not good."

Timothy, who had by now been put straight by his attendant, was carefully placed on all-fours
on a pile of cushions, which he promptly proceeded to chew. Mr. Klick, on attempting to correct
the pose, was received with a hymn of hate that compelled him to bury his head hastily in the
camera-cloth, and Suzanne arranged the subject so that some of his more recognisable features
became visible.

"Now then," she said to me, "make him smile."

With a furtive glance at Mr. Klick, who fortunately was still playing the ostrich, I essayed
a well-tried "face" that had almost invariably evoked a chuckle from Timothy, even when visitors
were present. On this occasion, however, it failed to produce anything more than a woebegone
pucker that foreshadowed something worse. Hastily I switched off into another expression, but
with no better result.

"Go on, Father," encouraged Barbara, who had been taking a breathless interest in these proceedings;
"try your funny voice."

Mr. Klick had emerged from cover and was standing expectantly with his hand on the cap.

Dear reader, have you ever been called upon to sing Pop Goes the Weasel in a falsetto voice
before a fractious baby, a small but intensely critical child, a stolidly contemptuous nurse,
an agitated mother and a gaping photographer, with the knowledge that success or failure hangs
upon your lips, and that all the time a diabolical machine in the street below is scoring threepence
against you every minute or so? Of course you haven't; but possibly you may be able to enter
into my feelings in this hour of trial. With a prickly heat suffusing my whole body and a melting
sensation at the collar I struggled through the wretched lyric once. Timothy regarded me first
with scorn and then with positive distaste. In desperation I squeaked it out again and yet
again, but each succeeding "pop" only registered another scowl on the face of my offspring
and another threepence on that of the cabman's clock.

I was maddened now, and Suzanne sought to restrain me; but I shook her off violently and went
on again da capo, and was just giving vent for about the seventeenth time to a particularly
excruciating "pop" when the door of the studio opened and a benevolent-looking old gentleman
entered. He gazed at us all in wonderment, and, overcome by mingled shame and exhaustion, I
sank into a chair and popped no more.

"Ah, Mr. Snapper," said Mr. Klick, "we were just trying to get this young gentleman amused."

Mr. Snapper, who, I should imagine, was the adenoid victim, looked first at me and next at
Timothy, and then blew his nose vigorously. It was not an ordinary blast, but had a peculiarly
musical timbre, very much like the note of a mouth-organ. It certainly attracted Timothy's
attention, for he at once looked round and the glimmer of a smile appeared upon his tear-stained
face.

"That's it!" cried Barbara excitedly. "Do it again."

"Oh, please do," entreated Suzanne.

Mr. Snapper, adenoids or no adenoids, was a sportsman. He quickly understood what was required
of him and blew his nose again and again. And with each blow Timothy's smile became wider,
the dimples grew deeper, and Mr. Klick at the camera was pushing in and pulling out plates
for all he was worth. At last Mr. Snapper could blow no more, and with profuse thanks we gathered
ourselves, together and departed. On our arrival home the cabman, fortunately, was induced
to accept a cheque in payment.

The photographs have turned out a great success. One in particular, which shows the first smile
breaking through Timothy's tears, is of a very happy character, and Mr. Snapper has asked and
received permission to send it to the illustrated Press under the title, "Sunshine and Shower";
and Aunt Caroline has not only been given a copy, but has had it framed.

Now, when I am called upon to produce a laugh from Timothy, I no longer make faces or "pop."
I have discovered how to blow my nose like a mouth-organ. It's trying work, but the effect
is magical.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Redintegratio Amoris.

    "The Public is hereby notified that myself and my Wife
    Millicent ---- is together again. I got hasty and
    advertised her with no just cause. FITZ ----."--West
    Indian Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "This telegram had been preceded by others, which were,
    unfortunately, contrary to instructions at the Post
    Office, delivered at this office, which was closed, and,
    therefore, not opened."--Irish Paper.

That, of course, would be so.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "At a meeting of the Child Study Society on Thursday,
    April 29th, at 6 p.m., Sir A. E. Shipley, G.B.E., D.Sc.,
    F.R.S., will give a lecture, illustrated by lantern
    slides, on biting insects and children."

    British Medical Journal.

And we had always thought him such a kind man!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MINXIAD.

(Being the scenario of a modern doggerel Epic.)

  THE lady I choose for the theme of my lay
  Is a portent "conspicuous even to-day,"
  For, though she was freely condemned and abhorred,
  She was never suppressed and she can't be ignored.

  Her parents, most anxious to give a good time
  To their children, if only they helped them to climb,
  Unconsciously aiding the new Self-Expression
  Left all from the start to their daughter's discretion.

  No nurse was allowed to rebuke her or warn her,
  No governess put her to stand in a corner;
  At six she revealed a peculiar joy
  In the taste of old brandy, and dressed like a boy;
  At eight she had read CASANOVA, CELLINI,
  And driven a toasting-fork into a tweeny;
  At ten she indited and published a story
  Described by The Leadenhall News as "too gory."
  One governess after another was tried,
  But none of them stopped and one suddenly died.
  Then she went for a while to a wonderful school
  Which was run on the plan of the late Mrs. BOOLE;
  But no "ethical safeguards" could ever restrain
  So impulsive a heart and so fertile a brain;
  And a fire, for the kindling of which she was held
  Responsible, led to her being expelled.

  On the strength of her fine pyromaniac rage
  For a season or two she appeared on the stage;
  Her dancing was crude and her voice was a blank,
  But she carried it off by superlative swank,
  And married a swarthy and elderly milli-
  Onaire who was killed in an earthquake in Chile.
  A militant during the Suffrage campaign,
  In the War she adopted the cause of Sinn Fein,
  And, according to credible witness, was seen
  In the thick of the fighting at Easter, '16.
  Escaping arrest by a dexterous dodge
  She became a disciple of OLIVER LODGE,
  Gave lectures on Swedish and Swiss callisthenics,
  Eurhythmics (DALCROZE) and Ukrainian eugenics.
  Last, married in haste to a Bolshevist don,
  She dyed her hair green and was painted by JOHN,
  Eloped with a squat anthropophagous Dago
  And finds a fit home in Tierra del Fuego.

       *       *       *       *       *

"TEMPERANCE WOMEN OF ALL LANDS.

    ONE PROPOSES KNEELING OUTSIDE HOUSE OF COMMONS."

    "Star" Headlines.

We have read the article carefully, but the Member to whom this Leap-Year proposal was made
is not mentioned.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

