Many changes will be required before efficient democratic government can exist. The greatest
and most pressing need at the present time, however, is for real publicity, which is the only
means of making public opinion effective as an instrument of social control. The movement toward
publicity has been in direct proportion to the growth of democracy. Formerly the masses were
not regarded by the ruling class as having any capacity for political affairs, or right to
criticise governmental policies and methods. With the acceptance of the idea of popular sovereignty,
however, the right of the people to be kept informed concerning the management of governmental
business received recognition; but practice has lagged far behind theory.

Much would be gained for good government by extending publicity to the relations existing between
public officials and private business interests. This would discourage the corrupt alliance
which now too often exists between unscrupulous politicians and corporate wealth. The public
have a right and ought to know to what extent individuals and corporations have contributed
money for the purpose of carrying elections. The time has come when the political party should
be generally recognized and dealt with as a public agency--as an essential part or indispensable
organ of the government itself. The amount of its revenue, the sources from which it is obtained,
the purposes for which it is expended, vitally concern the people and should be exposed to
a publicity as thorough and searching as that which extends to the financial transactions of
the government itself. The enforcement of publicity in this direction would not be open to
the objection that the government was invading the field of legitimate private activity, though
it would bring to light the relations which now exist between the party machine and private
business, and in so doing would expose the true source of much political corruption.

But this is not all that the people need to know concerning party management. They can not
be expected to make an intelligent choice of public officials, unless they are supplied with
all the facts which have a direct bearing upon the fitness of the various candidates. Popular
elections will not be entirely successful until some plan is devised under which no man can
become a candidate for office without expecting to have all the facts bearing upon his fitness,
whether relating to his private life or official conduct, made public. Publicity of this sort
would do much toward securing a better class of public officials.

Publicity concerning that which directly pertains to the management of the government is not
all that will be required. The old idea that all business is private must give way to the new
and sounder view that no business is entirely private. It is true that the business world is
not yet ready for the application of this doctrine, since deception is a feature of present-day
business methods. It is employed with reference to business rivals on the one hand and consumers
on the other. This policy of deception often degenerates into down-right fraud, as in the case
of secret rebates and other forms of discrimination through which one competitor obtains an
undue and perhaps crushing advantage over others; or it may take the form of adulteration or
other trade frauds by which the business man may rob the general public.

"Deception," says Lester F. Ward, "may almost be called the foundation of business. It is true
that if all business men would altogether discard it, matters would probably be far better
even for them than they are; but, taking the human character as it is, it is frankly avowed
by business men themselves that no business could succeed for a single year if it were to attempt
single-handed and alone to adopt such an innovation. The particular form of deception characteristic
of business is called shrewdness, and it is universally considered proper and upright. There
is a sort of code that fixes the limit beyond which this form of deception must not be carried,
and those who exceed that limit are looked upon somewhat as a pugilist who 'hits below the
belt,' But within these limits every one expects every other to suggest the false and suppress
the true, while caveat emptor is lord of all, and 'the devil take the hind-most.'"[197]

Under this system the strong, the unscrupulous and the cunning may pursue business tactics
which enable them to accumulate wealth at the expense of consumers or business rivals, but
which, if generally known, would not be tolerated. The great profits which fraudulent manufacturers
and merchants have made out of adulterated goods would have been impossible under a system
which required that all goods should be properly labeled and sold for what they really were.
Such abuses as now exist in the management of railroads and other corporations could not, or
at least would not long be permitted to exist, if the general public saw the true source, character,
extent and full effects of these evils.

The greatest obstacle to publicity at the present time is the control which corporate wealth
is able to, and as a matter of fact does, exercise over those agencies upon which the people
must largely depend for information and guidance regarding contemporary movements and events.
The telegraph and the newspaper are indispensable in any present-day democratic society. The
ownership and unregulated control of the former by the large corporate interests of the country,
and the influence which they can bring to bear upon the press by this means, as well as the
direct control which they have over a large part of the daily press by actual ownership, does
much to hinder the progress of the democratic movement. This hold which organized wealth has
upon the agencies through which public opinion is formed, is an important check on democracy.
It does much to secure a real, though not generally recognized, class ascendency under the
form and appearance of government by public opinion.

This great struggle now going on between the progressive and the reactionary forces, between
the many and the few, has had a profound influence upon public morality. We have here a conflict
between two political systems--between two sets of ethical standards. The supporters of minority
rule no doubt often feel that the whole plan and purpose of the democratic movement is revolutionary--that
its ultimate aim is the complete overthrow of all those checks designed for the protection
of the minority. The only effective means which they could employ to retard the progress of
the popular movement involved the use of money or its equivalent in ways that have had a corrupting
influence upon our national life. Of course this need not, and as a rule does not, take the
coarse, crude form of a direct purchase of public officials. The methods used may in the main
conform to all our accepted criteria of business honesty, but their influence is none the less
insidious and deadly. It is felt in many private institutions of learning; it is clearly seen
in the attitude of a large part of our daily press, and even in the church itself. This subtle
influence which a wealthy class is able to exert by owning or controlling the agencies for
molding public opinion is doing far more to poison the sources of our national life than all
the more direct and obvious forms of corruption combined. The general public may not see all
this or understand its full significance, but the conviction is gaining ground that it is difficult
to enact and still more difficult to enforce any legislation contemplating just and reasonable
regulation of corporate wealth. The conservative classes themselves are not satisfied with
the political system as it now is, believing that the majority, by breaking through restraints
imposed by the Constitution, have acquired more power than they should be permitted to exercise
under any well-regulated government. It is but a step, and a short one at that, from this belief
that the organization of the government is wrong and its policy unjust, to the conclusion that
one is justified in using every available means of defeating the enactment or preventing the
enforcement of pernicious legislation. On the other hand, the supporters of majority rule believe
that the government is too considerate of the few and not sufficiently responsive to the wishes
of the many. As a result of this situation neither the advocates nor the opponents of majority
rule have that entire faith in the reasonableness and justice of present political arrangements,
which is necessary to ensure real respect for, or even ready compliance with the laws.

Here we find the real explanation of that widespread disregard of law which characterizes American
society to-day. We are witnessing and taking part in the final struggle between the old and
the new--a struggle which will not end until one or the other of these irreconcilable theories
of government is completely overthrown, and a new and harmonious political structure evolved.
Every age of epoch-making change is a time of social turmoil. To the superficial onlooker this
temporary relaxation of social restraints may seem to indicate a period of decline, but as
a matter of fact the loss of faith in and respect for the old social agencies is a necessary
part of that process of growth through which society reaches a higher plane of existence.

CHAPTER XV

DEMOCRACY OF THE FUTURE

The growth of the democratic spirit is one of the most important facts in the political life
of the nineteenth century. All countries under the influence of Western civilization show the
same tendency. New political ideas irreconcilably opposed to the view of government generally
accepted in the past are everywhere gaining recognition. Under the influence of this new conception
of the state the monarchies and aristocracies of the past are being transformed into the democracies
of the future. We of the present day, however, are still largely in the trammels of the old,
though our goal is the freedom of the new. We have not yet reached, but are merely traveling
toward democracy. The progress which we have made is largely a progress in thought and ideals.
We have imbibed more of the spirit of popular government. In our way of thinking, our point
of view, our accepted political philosophy, there has been a marked change. Everywhere, too,
with the progress of scientific knowledge and the spread of popular education, the masses are
coming to a consciousness of their strength. They are circumscribing the power of ruling classes
and abolishing their exclusive privileges which control of the state has made it possible for
them to defend in the past. From present indications we are at the threshold of a new social
order under which the few will no longer rule the many.

Democracy may be regarded, according to the standpoint from which we view it, either as an
intellectual or as a moral movement. It is intellectual in that it presupposes a more or less
general diffusion of intelligence, and moral in that its aim is justice. It could not have
appeared or become a social force until man became a thinker and critic of existing social
arrangements. It was first necessary that he should acquire a point of view and a habit of
thought that give him a measure of intellectual independence and enable him to regard social
institutions and arrangements as human devices more or less imperfect and unjust. This thought
can not be grasped without its correlative--the possibility of improvement. Hence democracy
everywhere stands for political and social reform.

Democracy is modern, since it is only within recent times that the general diffusion of knowledge
has been possible. The invention of printing, by making possible a cheap popular literature,
contributed more than any other one fact to the intellectual and moral awakening which marks
the beginning of modern times. The introduction of printing, however, did not find a democratic
literature ready for general distribution, or the people ready for its appearance. A long period
of slow preparation followed, during which the masses were being educated. Moreover, it is
only within recent times that governments would have permitted the creation and diffusion of
a democratic literature. For a long time after printing was invented the ruling classes carefully
guarded against any use of the newly discovered art that might be calculated to undermine their
authority. Books containing new and dangerous doctrines were rigorously proscribed and the
people carefully protected from the disturbing influence of such views as might shake their
faith in the wisdom and justice of the existing social order.[198]

It is perhaps fortunate for the world that the political and social results of printing were
not comprehended at the time of its introduction. Had the ruling classes foreseen that it would
lead to the gradual shifting of political power from themselves to the masses, it is not unlikely
that they would have regarded it as a pernicious innovation.

But, as is the case with all great inventions, its full significance was not at first understood.
Silently and almost imperceptibly it paved the way for a social and political revolution. The
gradual diffusion of knowledge among the people prepared them for the contemplation of a new
social order. They began to think, to question and to doubt, and thenceforth the power and
prestige of the ruling classes began to decline. From that time on there has been an unceasing
struggle between the privileged few and the unprivileged many. We see it in the peaceful process
of legislation as well as in the more violent contest of war. After each success the masses
have demanded still greater concessions, until now, with a broader outlook and a larger conception
of human destiny, they demand the complete and untrammeled control of the state.

To the student of political science, then, the spirit and temper, the aims and ideals of the
new social order now coming into existence, are a matter of supreme importance. That our industrial
system will be profoundly modified may be conceded. Other consequences more difficult to foresee
because less direct and immediate, but not necessarily less important, may be regarded as not
unlikely. That our ideas of right and wrong, our conception of civic duty, and human character
itself will be modified as a result of such far-reaching changes in social relations, may be
expected. But while the more remote and indirect consequences of democracy may not be foreseen,
some of its immediate results are reasonably certain.

The immediate aim of democracy is political. It seeks to overthrow every form of class rule
and bring about such changes in existing governments as will make the will of the people supreme.
But political reform is regarded not as an end in itself. It is simply a means. Government
is a complex and supremely important piece of social machinery. Through it the manifold activities
of society are organized, directed and controlled. In a very real sense it is the most important
of all social institutions, since from its very nature it is the embodiment of social force,
asserting and maintaining a recognized supremacy over all other social institutions and agencies
whatever, modifying and adapting them to suit the purposes and achieve the ends of those who
control the state.

The form or type of government is all-important, since it involves the question as to the proper
end of government as well as the proper means of attaining it. Our notion of what constitutes
the best political system depends on our general theory of society--our conception of justice,
progress and social well-being. As government by the few inevitably results in the welfare
of the few being regarded as the chief concern of the state, the widest possible diffusion
of political power is the only guarantee that government will seek the welfare of the many.

The advocate of democracy does not think that it will be a perfect government, but he does
believe that it will in the long run be the best, most equitable and most progressive which
it is possible to establish. Government by the few and government by the many stand for widely
divergent and irreconcilable theories of progress and social well-being. As the methods, aims,
and social ideals of an aristocracy are not those of which a democratic society would approve,
it necessarily follows that the purposes of democracy can be accomplished only through a government
which the people control.

Modern science has given a decided impetus to the democratic movement by making a comfortable
existence possible for the many. It has explored the depths of the earth and revealed hidden
treasures of which previous ages did not even dream. Inventions and discoveries far-reaching
in influence and revolutionary in character have followed each other in rapid succession. With
the progress of the sciences and mechanical arts, man's power to control and utilize the forces
and materials which nature has so bountifully provided has been enormously increased; and yet,
much as has been accomplished in this field of human endeavor, there is reason to believe that
the conquest of the material world has but just begun. The future may hold in store for us
far greater achievements along this line than any the world has yet seen.

It is not surprising, then, that the masses should feel that they have received too little
benefit from this marvelous material progress. For just in proportion as the old political
system has survived, with its privileged classes, its checks on the people and its class ascendency
in government, the benefits of material progress have been monopolized by the few. Against
this intrusion of the old order into modern society the spirit of democracy revolts. It demands
control of the state to the end that the product of industry may be equitably distributed.
As the uncompromising enemy of monopoly in every form, it demands first of all equality of
opportunity.

Democracy, however, is not a mere scheme for the redistribution of wealth. It is fundamentally
a theory of social progress. In so far as it involves the distribution of wealth, it does so
as a necessary condition or means of progress, and not as an end in itself.

Democracy would raise government to the rank and dignity of a science by making it appeal to
the reason instead of the fear and superstition of the people. The governments of the past,
basing their claims upon divine right, bear about the same relation to democracy that astrology
and alchemy do to the modern sciences of astronomy and chemistry. The old political order everywhere
represented itself as superimposed on man from above, and, thus clothed with a sort of divine
sanction, it was exalted above the reach of criticism. The growth of intelligence has dispelled
one by one the crude political superstitions upon which the old governmental arrangements rested.
More and more man is coming to look upon government as a purely human agency which he may freely
modify and adapt to his purposes. The blind unthinking reverence with which he regarded it
in the past is giving way to a critical scientific spirit. Nor has this change in our point
of view in any way degraded government. In stripping it of the pretence of divine authority,
it has in reality been placed upon a more enduring basis. In so far as it can no longer claim
respect to which it is not entitled we have a guarantee that it can not persistently disregard
the welfare of the people.

Democracy owes much to modern scientific research. With the advance of knowledge we have gained
a new view of the world. Physics, astronomy, and geology have shown us that the physical universe
is undergoing a process of continual change. Biology, too, has revolutionized our notion of
life. Nothing is fixed and immutable as was once supposed, but change is universal. The contraction
of the earth's crust with its resultant changes in the distribution of land and water, and
the continual modification of climate and physical conditions generally have throughout the
past wrought changes in the form and character of all animal and vegetable life. Every individual
organism and every species must change as the world around it changes, or death is the penalty.
No form of life can long survive which does not possess in a considerable degree the power
of adaptation. Innumerable species have disappeared because of their inability to adjust themselves
to a constantly changing environment. It is from this point of view of continuous adjustment
that modern science regards the whole problem of life individual and collective.

We must not, however, assume that what is true of the lower forms of life is equally true of
the higher. In carrying the conceptions of biology over into the domain of social science we
must be careful to observe that here the process of adapting life to its environment assumes
a new and higher phase. In the lower animal world the life-sustaining activities are individual.
Division of labor is either entirely absent or plays a part so unimportant that we may for
purposes of comparison assume its absence. The individual animal has free access to surrounding
nature, unrestrained by social institutions or private property in the environment. For the
members of a given group there is what may be described as equality of opportunity. Hence it
follows that the individuals which are best suited to the environment will thrive best and
will tend to crowd out the others.

But when we come to human society this is not necessarily true. Here a social environment has
been created--a complex fabric of laws, usages, and institutions which envelopes completely
the life of the individual and intervenes everywhere between him and physical nature. To this
all his industrial activities must conform. The material environment is no longer the common
possession of the group. It has become private property and has passed under the control of
individuals in whose interests the laws and customs of every community ancient and modern have
been largely molded. This is a fact which all history attests. Wherever the few acquire a monopoly
of political power it always tends to develop into a monopoly of the means and agents of production.
Not content with making the physical environment their own exclusive property, the few have
often gone farther and by reducing the many to slavery have established and legalized property
in human beings themselves. But even when all men are nominally free and legalized coercion
does not exist, the fact nevertheless remains that those who control the means of production
in reality control the rest. As Mr. W.H. Mallock, the uncompromising opponent of democracy
and staunch defender of aristocracy, puts it: "The larger part of the progressive activities
of peace, and the arts and products of civilization, result from and imply the influence of
kings and leaders in essentially the same sense as do the successes of primitive war, the only
difference being that the kings are here more numerous, and though they do not wear any arms
or uniforms, are incomparably more autocratic than the kings and czars who do."[199] "Slavery,
feudalism, and capitalism," he tells us, "agree with one another in being systems under which
the few"[200] control the actions of the many.

This feature of modern capitalism--the control of the many by the few--which constitutes its
chief merit in the eyes of writers like Mr. Mallock is what all democratic thinkers consider
its chief vice. Under such a system success or failure is no longer proof of natural fitness
or unfitness. Where every advantage that wealth and influence afford is enjoyed by the few
and denied to the many an essential condition of progress is lacking. Many of the ablest, best,
and socially fittest are hopelessly handicapped by lack of opportunity, while their inferiors
equipped with every artificial advantage easily defeat them in the competitive struggle.

This lack of a just distribution of opportunity under existing industrial arrangements, the
defenders of the established social order persistently ignore. Taking no account of the unequal
conditions under which the competitive struggle is carried on in human society, they would
make success proof of fitness to survive and failure evidence of unfitness. This is treating
the complex problem of social adjustment as if it were simply a question of mere animal struggle
for existence. Writers of this class naturally accept the Malthusian doctrine of population,
and ascribe misery and want to purely natural causes, viz., the pressure of population on the
means of subsistence. Not only is this pressure with its attendant evils unavoidable, they
tell us, but, regarded from the standpoint of the highest interests of the race it is desirable
and beneficent in that it is the method of evolution--the means which nature makes use of to
produce, through the continual elimination of the weak, a higher human type. To relieve this
pressure through social arrangements would arrest by artificial contrivances the progress which
the free play of natural forces tends to bring about. If progress is made only through the
selection of the fit and the rejection of the unfit, it would follow that the keener the struggle
for existence and the more rapid and relentless the elimination of the weak, the greater would
be the progress made. This is exactly the contention of Kidd in his Social Evolution. He claims
that if the pressure of population on the means of subsistence were arrested, and all individuals
were allowed equally to propagate their kind, the human race would not only not progress, but
actually retrograde.[201] If we accept this as true, it would follow that a high birth rate
and a high death rate are necessary in order that the process of selection and rejection may
go on. This is indeed a pleasant prospect for all except the fortunate few. But the question,
of course, is not whether this is pleasant to contemplate or unpleasant, but whether it is
true. Is the evolution of a higher human type the same kind of a process as that of a higher
animal or vegetable type? Is progress achieved only through the preservation of the fit and
the elimination of the unfit? If it could be shown that this is the case, then certainly the
conditions under which this struggle to the death is carried on would be a matter of supreme
importance. Are our social adjustments such as to facilitate, or at least not interfere with
it? Do they make the question of success or failure, survival or elimination, depend upon individual
fitness or unfitness? This, as we have seen, is not the case, though the partisans of the biological
theory of human progress have constantly assumed it. Mr. Mallock takes even a more extreme
position than most writers of this class, and actually says "that the social conditions of
a time are the same for all, but that it is only exceptional men who can make exceptional use
of them."[202] The unequal distribution of wealth he seeks to justify on the ground that "the
ordinary man's talents as a producer ... have not appreciably increased in the course of two
thousand years and have certainly not increased within the past three generations."[203]

"In the domain of modern industrial activity the many" ... he tells us, "produce only an insignificant
portion of the total, ... and in the domain of intellectual and speculative progress the many
produce or achieve nothing."[204] If we accept his premises, we must agree with his conclusion
that democracy's indictment of our modern industrial system falls to the ground. This view
of the matter is acceptable, of course, to those who are satisfied with present social arrangements.
It furnishes a justification for the system under which they have prospered while others have
failed. It relieves their conscience of any misgiving and soothes them with the assurance that
only through the poverty and misery of the unfit can a higher civilization be evolved. This
largely explains the popularity among the well-to-do classes of such books as Malthus' Principle
of Population and Kidd's Social Evolution.

Such a treatment of the social problem, however, will not bear the test of analysis, since
it assumes that the present distribution of opportunity is just. To ignore or treat as unimportant
the influence of social arrangements upon the struggle for existence between individuals, as
apologists for the existing social order are too much inclined to do, is like ignoring the
modern battle-ship as a factor in the efficiency of the modern navy.

But while this biological theory of evolution has been made to serve the purpose of defending
existing social arrangements, it is in reality no adequate explanation of human progress. Selection
and rejection do not, as a matter of fact, play any important part in the progress of civilized
communities. Here the struggle for existence has assumed the form of a struggle for domination.
The vanquished are no longer eliminated as a result of the competitive struggle; for, as Mr.
Spencer says, social institutions preserve the incapables.[205] Not only are the unsuccessful
not eliminated but, as sociological students well know, they increase more rapidly than the
successful few. If, then, we accept the biological theory of social evolution, we are forced
to the conclusion that the human race, instead of advancing, is really retrograding. Seeing
that this is not a satisfactory explanation of human progress, Mr. Mallock supplements it with
a new factor which he describes as "the unintended results of the intentions of great men."[206]
But, like all of these writers, he makes progress depend entirely on the biological struggle
for existence or the industrial struggle for supremacy, not recognizing the all-important part
which social ideals and conscious social choice play in human evolution.

There is, then, as we have seen, ample justification for the hostility to privilege which the
democratic movement everywhere exhibits. In making equality of opportunity a feature of the
new social order, the advocates of reform are proceeding in harmony with the teaching of modern
science. Such changes must be brought about in the organization of industry, the laws of property,
the scope and character of public and private activities, as will sweep away entirely the whole
ancient system of special privileges, and by placing all individuals upon the same footing,
make success the unfailing reward of merit. To accomplish this is to solve the monopoly problem.
Some progress has been made in this direction, but it consists for the most part in discovering
that such a problem exists. Just how posterity will deal with it, it is impossible to foresee;
but of one thing we may be sure--this new conception of justice will exert a profound influence
upon the legislation of the future.

The attention of the democratic movement has up to the present time been occupied almost exclusively
with the question of a just distribution of opportunity; yet this is not the only problem which
democracy will have to solve. Indeed, it is but the first step in a continuous process of conscious
social readjustment. This fact many writers on social science have not fully grasped. There
is still a tendency to regard society as a sort of divinely ordered mechanism, which, if properly
started, will automatically work out the process of social evolution. * * * * From this point
of view it is easy to conclude that "whatever is, is right." * * * * If we accept this belief
in the beneficent and progressive character of all natural processes, the conclusion is irresistible
that nature's methods should not be interfered with.

This is largely the point of view of the earlier English political economists, and it partly
explains their belief in the policy of non-interference. The best and most comprehensive statement
of this view of social progress is found in Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations. In this work he
attempted to show that legislative interference with industry is unnecessary. Therefore he
advocated the repeal of all laws which interfered with or in any way restricted the liberty
of the individual. He believed that the natural principle of competition would of itself effectually
regulate industrial life. The desire of each individual to pursue his own interests made state
interference, in his opinion, unnecessary. In the absence of legal restraints industrial matters
would spontaneously regulate themselves. The varied economic activities of individuals in society
would be adequately controlled and harmonized with the general interests of society, if statute
or human law did not interfere with natural or divine law. Reliance on competition would ensure
order, harmony and continuous progress in society, just as in the realm of matter the influence
of gravitation has transformed by a long-continued development the original chaos into an orderly
universe. Each individual acting in obedience to this law would be "led by an invisible hand
to promote"[207] the well-being of society, even though he was conscious only of a selfish
desire to further his own ends.

Such was the industrial philosophy of Adam Smith. It was in harmony with and the natural outcome
of the movement which had already revolutionized religious and philosophic thought. In every
department of human activity emphasis was being put on the individual. Liberty was the watchword
of society--the panacea for all social ills. The Western world was breaking through the old
system of restraints under which the individual had been fettered in religion, politics and
business. A new conception of the state, its duties and its functions, had been evolved. Mere
human law was being discredited. Philosophers, distrusting the coercive arrangements of society,
were looking into the nature of man and the character of the environment for the principles
of social organization and order. Belief in the curative power of legislation was being supplanted
by a growing faith in the sufficiency of natural law.

The underlying motives for advocating the laissez faire policy were, however, mainly political
and economic.[208] The ready acceptance of this doctrine must be attributed largely to the
fact that it offered a plausible ground for opposing the burdensome restraints of the old system
of class rule.

