"Yes--that woman forced me to marry her!" he testified in substance. "But in the eyes of God
I am not her husband, for she bewitched me! Else would I have married an old crone who could
not have borne me children? When her spells weakened I left her and came to America. Here I
met the woman I love,--Rosina,--and as I had been bewitched into the other marriage, we lived
together as man and wife for two years. Then one day a friend told me that the old woman had
followed me over the sea and was going to throw her spells upon me again. But I did not inform
Rosina of these things. The next evening she told me that an old woman had been to the house
and asked for me. For days my first wife lurked in the neighborhood, beseeching me to come
back to her. But I told her that in the eyes of God she was not my wife. Then, in revenge,
she cast the evil eye upon the child--sul bambino--and for six weeks it ailed and then died.
Again the witch asked me to go with her, and again I refused. This time she cast her evil eye
upon my wife--and Rosina grew pale and sick and took to her bed. There was only one thing to
do, you understand. I resolved to slay her, just as you--giudici--would have done. I bought
a carving-knife and sharpened it, and asked her to walk with me to the park, and I would have
killed her had not the police prevented me. Wherefore, O giudici! I pray you to recall her
and permit me to kill her or to decree that she be hung!"

This case illustrates the depths of ignorance and superstition that are occasionally to be
found among Italian peasant immigrants. Another actual experience may demonstrate the mediaeval
treachery of which the Sicilian Mafiuso is capable, and how little his manners or ideals have
progressed in the last five hundred years or so.

A photographer and his wife, both from Palermo, came to New York and rented a comfortable home
with which was connected a "studio." In the course of time a young man--a Mafiuso from Palermo--was
engaged as an assistant, and promptly fell in love with the photographer's wife. She was tired
of her husband, and together they plotted the latter's murder. After various plans had been
considered and rejected, they determined on poison, and the assistant procured enough cyanide
of mercury to kill a hundred photographers, and turned it over to his mistress to administer
to the victim in his "Marsala." But at the last moment her hand lost its courage and she weakly
sewed the poison up for future use inside the ticking of the feather bolster on the marital bed.

This was not at all to the liking of her lover, who thereupon took matters into his own hands,
by hiring another Mafiuso to remove the photographer with a knife-thrust through the heart.
In order that the assassin might have a favorable opportunity to effect his object, the assistant,
who posed as a devoted friend of his employer, invited the couple to a Christmas festival at
his own apartment. Here they all spent an animated and friendly evening together, drinking
toasts and singing Christmas carols, and toward midnight the party broke up with mutual protestations
of regard. If the writer remembers accurately, the evidence was that the two men embraced and
kissed each other. After a series of farewells the photographer started home. It was a clear
moonlight night with the streets covered with a glistening fall of snow. The wife, singing
a song, walked arm in arm with her husband until they came to a corner where a jutting wall
cast a deep shadow across the sidewalk. At this point she stepped a little ahead of him, and
at the same moment the hired assassin slipped up behind the victim and drove his knife into
his back. The wife shrieked. The husband staggered and fell, and the "bravo" fled.

The police arrived, and so did an ambulance, which removed the hysterical wife and the transfixed
victim to a hospital. Luckily the ambulance surgeon did not remove the knife, and his failure
to do so saved the life of the photographer, who in consequence practically lost no blood and
whose cortex was skilfully hooked up by a dextrous surgeon. In a month he was out. In another
the police had caught the would-be murderer and he was soon convicted and sentenced to State
prison, under a contract with the assistant to be paid two hundred and fifty dollars for each
year he had to serve. Evidently the lover and his mistress concluded that the photographer
bore a charmed life, for they made no further homicidal attempts.

So much for the story as an illustration of the mediaeval character of some of our Sicilian
immigrants. For the satisfaction of the reader's taste for the romantic and picturesque it
should be added, however, that the matter did not end here. The convict, having served several
years, found that the photographer's assistant was not keeping his part of the contract, as
a result of which the assassin's wife and children were suffering for lack of food and clothing.
He made repeated but fruitless attempts to compel the party of the first part to pay up, and
finally, in despair, wrote to the District Attorney of New York County that he could, if he
would, a tale unfold that would harrow up almost anybody's soul. Mr. Jerome therefore, on the
gamble of getting something worth while, sent Detective Russo to Auburn to interview the prisoner.
That is how the whole story came to be known. The case was put in the writer's hands, and an
indictment for the very unusual crime of attempted murder (there are only one or two such cases
on record in New York State) was speedily found against the photographer's assistant. At the
trial the lover saw his mistress compelled to turn State's evidence against him to save herself.
She testified to the Christmas carols and the cyanide of mercury.

"Did you ever remove this terrible poison from the bolster?" demanded the defendant's counsel
in a sneering tone.

"No," answered the woman.

"Have you ever changed the bolster?" he persisted.

"No."

"Then it's there yet?"

"I-I think so," falteringly.

"I demand that this incredible yarn be investigated!" cried the lawyer. "I ask that the court
send for the bolster and cut it open here in the presence of the jury."

The writer had no choice but to accede to this request, and the bolster was hunted down and
brought into court. With some anxiety both sides watched while the lining was slit with a penknife.
A few feathers fluttered to the floor as the fingers of the witness felt inside and came in
contact with the poison. The assistant was convicted of attempted murder on the convict's testimony,
and sentenced to Sing Sing for twenty-five years. That was the end of the second lesson.

About a month afterward the defendant's counsel made a motion for a new trial on the ground
that the convict now admitted his testimony to have been wholly false, and produced an affidavit
from the assassin to that effect. Naturally so startling an allegation demanded investigation.
Yes, insisted the "bravo," it was all made up, a "camorra"--not a word of truth in it, and
he had invented the whole thing in order to get a vacation from State prison and a free ride
to New York. However, the court denied the motion. The writer procured a new indictment against
the assassin--this time for perjury--and he was sentenced to another additional term in prison.
What induced this sudden and extraordinary change of mind on his part can only be surmised.

These two cases are extreme examples of the mediaevalism that to a considerable degree prevails
in New York City, probably in Chicago and Boston, and wherever there is an excessive south
Italian population.

The conditions under which a large number of Italians live in this country are favorable not
only to the continuance of ignorance, but to the development of disease and crime. Naples is
bad enough, no doubt. The people there are poverty-stricken and homeless. But in New York City
they are worse than homeless. It is better far to sleep under the stars than in a stuffy room
with ten or twelve other persons. Let the reader climb the stairs of some of the tenements
in Elizabeth Street, or go through those in Union Street, Brooklyn, and he will get firsthand
evidence. This is generally true of the lower class of Italians throughout the United States,
whether in the city or country. They live under worse conditions than at home. You may go through
the railroad camps and see twenty men sleeping together in a one-room built of lath, tar-paper,
and clay. The writer knows of one Italian laborer in Massachusetts who slept in a floorless
mud hovel about six feet square, with one hole to go in and out by and another in the roof
for ventilation--in order to save $1.75 per month. All honor to him! Garibaldi was of just
such stuff, only he suffered in a better cause. In Naples the young folks are out all day in
the sun. Here they are indoors all the year round. For the consequences of this change see
Dr. Peccorini's article in the 'Forum' for January, 1911, on the tuberculosis that soon develops
among Italians who abroad were accustomed to live in the country but here are forced to exist
in tenements.

Now, for historic reasons, these south Italians hate and distrust all governmental control
and despise any appeal to the ordinary tribunals of justice to assert a right or to remedy
a wrong. It has been justly said by a celebrated Italian writer that, in effect, there is some
instinct for civil war in the heart of every Italian. The insufferable tyranny of the Bourbon
dynasty made every outlaw dear to the hearts of the oppressed people of the Kingdom of the
Two Sicilies. Even if he robbed them, they felt that he was the lesser of two evils, and sheltered
him from the authorities. Out of this feeling grew the "Omerta," which paralyzes the arm of
justice both in Naples and Sicily. The late Marion Crawford thus summed up the Sicilian code
of honor:

According to this code, a man who appeals to the law against his fellow man is not only a fool
but a coward, and he who cannot take care of himself without the protection of the police is
both.... It is reckoned as cowardly to betray an offender to justice, even though the offence
be against one's self, as it would be not to avenge an injury by violence. It is regarded as
dastardly and contemptible in a wounded man to betray the name of his assailant, because if
he recovers he must naturally expect to take vengeance himself. A rhymed Sicilian proverb sums
up this principle, the supposed speaker being one who has been stabbed. "If I live, I will
kill thee," it says; "if I die, I forgive thee!"

Any one who has had anything to do with the administration of criminal justice in a city with
a large Italian population must have found himself constantly hampered by precisely this same
"Omerta." The south Italian feels obliged to conceal the name of the assassin and very likely
his person, though he himself be but an accidental witness of the crime; and, while the writer
knows of no instance in New York City where an innocent man has gone to prison himself rather
than betray a criminal, Signor Cutera, formerly chief of police in Palermo, states that there
have been many cases in Sicily where men have suffered long terms of penal servitude and even
have died in prison rather than give information to the police.

In point of fact, however, the "Omerta" is not confined to Italians. It is a common attribute
of all who are opposed to authority of any kind, including small boys and criminals, and with
the latter arises no more from a half chivalrous loyalty to their fellows than it does from
hatred of the police and a uniform desire to block their efforts (even if a personal adversary
should go unpunished in consequence), fear that complaint made or assistance given to the authorities
will result in vengeance being taken upon the complainant by some comrade or relative of the
accused, distrust of the ability of the police to do anything anyway, disgust at the delay
involved, and lastly, if not chiefly, the realization that as a witness in a court of justice
the informer as a professional criminal would have little or no standing or credence, and in
addition would, under cross-examination, be compelled to lay bare the secrets of his unsavory
past, perhaps resulting indirectly in a term in prison for himself.* Thus may be accounted
for much of the supposed "romantic, if misguided, chivalry" of the south Italian. It is common
both to him and to the Bowery tough. The writer knew personally a professional crook who was
twice almost shot to pieces in Chatham Square, New York City, and who persistently declined,
even on his dying bed, to give a hint of the identity of his assassins, announcing that if
he got well he "would attend to that little matter himself." Much of the romance surrounding
crime and criminals, on examination, "fades into the light of common day"--the obvious product
not of idealism, but of well-calculated self-interest.

     * Much more likely in Italy than in the United States.

As illustrating the backwardness of our Italian fellow-citizens in coming forward when the
criminality of one of their countrymen is at stake, the last three cases of kidnapping in New
York City may be mentioned.

About a year and a half ago the little boy of Dr. Scimeca, of 2 Prince Street, New York, was
taken from his home. From outside sources the police heard that the child had been stolen,
but, although he was receiving constant letters and telephonic communications from the kidnappers,
Dr. Scimeca would not give them any information. It is known on pretty good authority that
the sum of $10,000 was at first demanded as a ransom, and was lowered by degrees to $5,000,
$2,500, and finally to $1,700. Dr. Scimeca at last made terms with the kidnappers, and was
told to go one evening to City Park, where he is said to have handed $1,700 to a stranger.
The child was found wandering aimlessly in the streets next day, after a detention of nearly
three months.

The second case was that of Vincenzo Sabello, a grocer of 386 Broome Street, who lost his little
boy on August 26, 1911. After thirty days he reported the matter to the police, but shortly
after tried to throw them off the track by saying that he had been mistaken, that the boy had
not been kidnapped, and that he wished no assistance. Finally he ordered the detectives out
of his place. About a month later the child was recovered, but not, according to reliable information,
until Mr. Sabello had handed over $2,500.

Pending the recovery of the Sabello boy, a third child was stolen from the top floor of a house
at 119 Elizabeth Street. The father, Leonardo Quartiano, reported the disappearance, and in
answer to questions stated that he had received no letters or telephone messages. "Why should
I?" he inquired, with uplifted hands and the most guileless demeanor. "I am poor! I am a humble
fishmonger." In point of fact, Quartiano at the time had a pocketful of blackmail letters,
and after four weeks paid a good ransom and got back his boy.

It is impossible to estimate correctly the number of Italian criminals in America or their
influence upon our police statistics; but in several classes of crime the Italians furnish
from fifteen to fifty per cent of those convicted. In murder, assault with intent to kill,
blackmail, and extortion they head the list, as well as in certain other offences unnecessary
to describe more fully but prevalent in Naples and the South.

Joseph Petrosino, the able and fearless officer of New York police who was murdered in Palermo
while in the service of the country of his adoption, was, while he lived, our greatest guaranty
of protection against the Italian criminal. But Petrosino is gone. The fear of him no longer
will deter Italian ex-convicts from seeking asylum in the United States. He once told the writer
that there were five thousand Italian ex-convicts in New York City alone, of whom he knew a
large proportion by sight and name.* Signor Ferrero, the noted historian, is reported to have
stated, on his recent visit to America, that there were thirty thousand Italian criminals in
New York City. Whatever their actual number, there are quite enough at all events.

     *Petrosino is a national hero in Italy, where he was known as "Il
Sherlock Holmes d'Italia"--"the Italian Sherlock Holmes." Many novels in
which he figures as the central character have a wide circulation there.

By far the greater portion of these criminals, whether ex-convicts or novices, are the products
or byproducts of the influence of the two great secret societies of southern Italy. These societies
and the unorganized criminal propensity and atmosphere which they generate, are known as the
"Mala Vita."

The Mafia, a purely Sicilian product, exerts a much more obvious influence in America than
the Camorra, since the Mafia is powerful all over Sicily, while the Camorra is practically
confined to the city of Naples and its environs. The Sicilians in America vastly outnumber
the Neapolitans. Thus in New York City for every one Camorrist you will find seven or eight
Mafiusi. But they are all essentially of a piece, and the artificial distinction between them
in Italy disappears entirely in America.

Historically the Mafia burst from a soil fertilized by the blood of martyred patriots, and
represented the revolt of the people against all forms of the tyrannous government of the Bourbons;
but the fact remains that, whatever its origin, the Mafia to-day is a criminal organization,
having, like the Camorra, for its ultimate object blackmail and extortion. Its lower ranks
are recruited from the scum of Palermo, who, combining extraordinary physical courage with
the lowest type of viciousness, generally live by the same means that supports the East Side
"cadet" in New York City, and who end either in prison or on the dissecting-table, or gradually
develop into real Mafiusi and perhaps gain some influence.

It is, in addition, an ultra-successful criminal political machine, which, under cover of a
pseudoprinciple, deals in petty crime, wholesale blackmail, political jobbery, and the sale
of elections, and may fairly be compared to the lowest types of politico-criminal clubs or
societies in New York City. In Palmero it is made up of "gangs" of toughs and criminals, not
unlike the Camorrist gangs of Naples, but without their organization, and is kept together
by personal allegiance to some leader. Such a leader is almost always under the patronage of
a "boss" in New York or a 'padrone' in Italy, who uses his influence to protect the members
of the gang when in legal difficulties and find them jobs when out of work and in need of funds.
Thus the "boss" can rely on the gang's assistance in elections in return for favors at other
times. Such gangs may act in harmony or be in open hostility or conflict with one another,
but all are united as against the police, and exhibit much the same sort of "Omerta" in Chatham
Square as in Palermo. The difference between the Mafia and Camorra and the "gangs" of New York
City lies in the fact that the latter are so much less numerous and powerful, and bribery and
corruption so much less prevalent, that they can exert no practical influence in politics outside
the Board of Aldermen, whereas the Italian societies of the Mala Vita exert an influence everywhere--in
the Chamber of Deputies, the Cabinet, and even closer to the King. In fact, political corruption
has been and still is of a character in Italy luckily unknown in America--not in the amounts
of money paid over (which are large enough), but in the calm and matter-of-fact attitude adopted
toward the subject in Parliament and elsewhere.

The overwhelming majority of Italian criminals in this country come from Sicily, Calabria,
Naples, and its environs. They have lived, most of their lives, upon the ignorance, fear, and
superstitions of their fellow-countrymen. They know that so long as they confine their criminal
operations to Italians of the lower class they need have little terror of the law, since, if
need be, their victims will harbor them from the police and perjure themselves in their defence.
For the ignorant Italian brings to this country with him the same attitude toward government
and the same distrust of the law that characterized him and his fellow-townsmen at home, the
same Omerta that makes it so difficult to convict any Italian of a serious offence. The Italian
crook is quick-witted and soon grasps the legal situation. He finds his fellow countrymen prospering,
for they are generally a hard-working and thrifty lot, and he proceeds to levy tribute on them
just as he did in Naples or Palermo. If they refuse his demands, stabbing or bomb-throwing
show that he has lost none of his ferocity. Where they are of the most ignorant type he threatens
them with the "evil eye," the "curse of God," or even with sorceries. The number of Italians
who can be thus terrorized is astonishing. Of course, the mere possibility of such things argues
a state of mediaevalism. But mere mediaevalism would be comparatively unimportant did it not
supply the principal element favorable to the growth of the Mala Vita, apprehended with so
much dread by many of the citizens of the United States.

Now, what are the phases of the Mala Vita--the Camorra, the Black Hand, the Mafia--which are
to-day observable in the United States and which may reasonably be anticipated in the future?

In the first place, it may be safely said that of the Camorra in its historic sense--the Camorra
of the ritual, of the "Capo in Testa" and "Capo in Trino," highly organized with a self-perpetuating
body of officers acting under a supreme head--there is no trace. Indeed, as has already been
explained, this phase of the Camorra, save in the prisons, is practically over, even in Naples.
But of the Mala Vita there is evidence enough.

Every large city, where people exist under unwholesome conditions, has some such phenomenon.
In Palermo we have the traditional Mafia--a state of mind, if you will, ineradicable and all-pervasive.
Naples festers with the Camorra as with a venereal disease, its whole body politic infected
with it, so that its very breath is foul and its moral eyesight astigmatized. In Paris we find
the Apache, abortive offspring of prostitution and brutality, the twin brother of the Camorrista.
In New York there are the "gangs," composed of pimps, thugs, cheap thieves, and hangers-on
of criminals, which rise and wane in power according to the honesty and efficiency of the police,
and who, from time to time, hold much the same relations to police captains and inspectors
as the various gangs of the Neapolitan Camorra do to commissaries and delegati of the "Public
Safety." Corresponding to these, we have the "Black Hand" gangs among the Italian population
of our largest cities. Sometimes the two coalesce, so that in the second generation we occasionally
find an Italian, like Paul Kelly, leading a gang composed of other Italians, Irish-Americans,
and "tough guys" of all nationalities. But the genuine Black Hander (the real Camorrist or
"Mafiuoso") works alone or with two or three of his fellow-countrymen.

Curiously enough, there is a society of criminal young men in New York City who are almost
the exact counterpart of the Apaches of Paris. They are known by the euphonious name of "Waps"
or "Jacks." These are young Italian-Americans who allow themselves to be supported by one or
two women, almost never of their own race. These pimps affect a peculiar cut of hair, and dress
with half-turned-up velvet collar, not unlike the old-time Camorrist, and have manners and
customs of their own. They frequent the lowest order of dance-halls, and are easily known by
their picturesque styles of dancing, of which the most popular is yclept the "Nigger." They
form one variety of the many "gangs" that infest the city, are as quick to flash a knife as
the Apaches, and, as a cult by themselves, form an interesting sociological study.

The majority of the followers of the Mala Vita--the Black Handers--are not actually of Italian
birth, but belong to the second generation. As children they avoid school, later haunt "pool"
parlors and saloons, and soon become infected with a desire for "easy money," which makes them
glad to follow the lead of some experienced capo maestra. To them he is a sort of demi-god,
and they readily become his clients in crime, taking their wages in experience or whatever
part of the proceeds he doles out to them. Usually the "boss" tells them nothing of the inner
workings of his plots. They are merely instructed to deliver a letter or to blow up a tenement.
The same name is used by the Black Hander to-day for his "assistant" or "apprentice" who actually
commits a crime as that by which he was known under the Bourbons in 1820. In those early days
the second-grade member of the Camorra was known as a picciotto. To-day the apprentice or "helper"
of the Black Hander is termed a picciott' in the clipped dialect of the South. But the picciotto
of New York is never raised to the grade of Camorrista, since the organization of the Camorra
has never been transferred to this country. Instead he becomes in course of time a sort of
bully or bad man on his own hook, a criminal "swell," who does no manual labor, rarely commits
a crime with his own hands, and lives by his brain. Such a one was Micelli Palliozzi, arrested
for the kidnapping of the Scimeca and Sabello children mentioned above--a dandy who did nothing
but swagger around the Italian quarter.

Generally each capo maestra works for himself with his own handful of followers, who may or
may not enjoy his confidence, and each gang has its own territory, held sacred by the others.
The leaders all know each other, but never trespass upon the others' preserves, and rarely
attempt to blackmail or terrorize any one but Italians. They gather around them associates
from their own part of Italy, or the sons of men whom they have known at home. Thus for a long
time Costabili was leader of the Calabrian Camorra in New York, and held undisputed sway of
the territory south of Houston Street as far as Canal Street and from Broadway to the East
River. On September 15, last, Costabili was caught with a bomb in his hand, and he is now doing
a three-year bit up the river. Sic transit gloria mundi!

