I sank into a profound slumber, heavy and dreamless, within a minute after I lay down--the
result, no doubt, of the utter exhaustion of every faculty, both of body and mind. Possessing
a vigorous constitution, and a perfectly healthy frame, I escaped the reaction of nervous excitement,
which most persons in similar circumstances would have undergone, and which in many would have
terminated in fever and delirium, and perhaps death. But I did not escape altogether. After
I had lain in total forgetfulness for some hours, my imagination woke up and plagued me with
dreams of indescribable terror and alarm. I was swimming for whole days and nights together
in a shoreless sea, tossed by storms, and swarming with monsters, one or other of which was
continually seizing me by the foot, and dragging me down; while over my head foul birds of
prey, each and all with the terrified face of the poor wretch whom I had frightened in the
marsh, and clutching firearms in their semi-human claws, were firing at my head, and swooping
to devour me. To avoid their beaks, I dived madly into the depths below, where I had to do
battle in the dark with the grim and shapeless monsters of the deep. Then, bursting with the
retention of my breath, I rose again to the surface, and enjoyed a moment's pause, until the
screaming harpies again gathered around me, and, convulsed with fear, I dived again as the
vivid flash from their firearms dazzled my eyes. While performing one of these violent feats,
occasioned by a flash which appeared to blaze over the whole sky, I woke suddenly. My landlord,
the old fisherman, was standing by my bedside; he had drawn aside the curtains of my bed, and
let the sunshine in upon my face, the hot gleam of which was doubtless the blazing flash of
my dream. I laughed aloud when I found myself snug in bed, and proceeded to dress in the old
man's best holiday suit, which he placed at my service. My wounded foot had well-nigh healed
in the night, and I could walk comfortably. During breakfast, I gave the old man and his daughter
the real history of my case, to their unspeakable astonishment, and consulted them as to my
future operations. The fisherman volunteered to land me at a small village a few miles below,
from whence he would proceed with me to K----, where, upon representing my case to the magistrates,
I should be furnished with the means of getting back to B----, and recovering my property.

This, in fact, was the only thing I could do. I engaged the fisherman to accompany me through
the whole route; and as he had naturally no desire to lose sight of me, he made no objection.
I had slept thirteen hours; and it was ten o'clock in the day, when the old man and I, and
his two lads, embarked in the boat for the nearest village. We arrived there before noon, and
he hired a conveyance in which we both proceeded to the place he had mentioned, a distance
of some twenty miles, which we reached about three in the afternoon. But my companion had no
more of either money or credit, and I was compelled to apply to the chief magistrate of the
town, whom, by good-fortune, we found at his private residence. He proved a good-natured but
rather fussy old gentleman; and when he had heard my story, which he interrupted with a thousand
demonstrations of horror, alarm, and sympathy, insisted upon my sharing the hospitality of
his house for the night, assuring me that it would be impossible to proceed that day. I gave
a reluctant consent, upon his promising that he would put me in a condition to start at an
early hour in the morning. Hereupon, consigning my companion to the charge of a servant, he
ushered me into a saloon adjoining his study, and introduced me to his family, consisting of
two grown-up sons, three daughters, and their mother, to whom I had to tell my luckless adventures
over again. That, however, was not the worst of it. As the hour of dinner drew near, the house
began to fill with visitors: it was plain that my arrival, and the circumstances connected
with it, had been regularly advertised through the town, and all the world was flocking to
see the new 'lion' which the river had turned up. And certainly a lion I was, as the play-bills
have it, 'for that night only.' I had to tell my story ten times over, and to submit to questionings
and cross-questionings without number. All this, perhaps, was but natural enough, considering
the circumstances; but it occasioned me no small annoyance; and feigning excessive fatigue,
for which I had but too good excuse, I retired early to rest, leaving the assembled guests
to pump the old fisherman, which they did to their hearts' content, and to talk over my adventures
at leisure.

A servant awoke me before dawn. A carriage and post-horses stood at the door, and after I had
made a hearty breakfast, my worthy host put into my hand a letter of introduction to his brother
magistrate at B----. I bade him farewell with many sincere and hearty thanks, entered the carriage
with my companion, and drove off. The distance we had to go may have been about fifty English
miles; but the roads were in such wretched condition, and the cattle, which we changed seven
times, of such an abominable breed, that night had fallen upon the town of B---- before we
entered it. I drove at once to the little gasthof, where, three days before, at the same hour,
I had put up upon my arrival. The landlord bustled out to receive me as the carriage stopped
at the door; but though I identified him immediately, he shewed not the slightest symptom of
recognising me. I told the driver to wait, and beckoning the old fisherman to follow, demanded
to be shewn into a private room, and to be favoured with the landlord's company. He obeyed
with the utmost alacrity, and taking a lamp from the hand of an attendant, led the way to a
small room on the first floor.

'Well, Herr Bernstein,' I said, 'are you not glad to see me back again?'

'Most happy to see you, gracious sir,' said he; 'but have not the honour to recollect your
gracious person.'

'Indeed! An Englishman, on a black horse, put up here three days ago at this hour--surely you
recollect that?'

'Ah, too well I recollect that. Poor English gentleman--a countryman of yours, perhaps a friend--ah!
dear God! drowned--unhappy man--carried away by the river in the morning before any of us were
up.' Here he wrung his hands in evident sorrow: 'Ah, that stupid Grute! why did he let the
gentleman bathe in the Danube?'

'Stop!' said I; 'let me put an end to your regret--I am that Englishman!'

'You--you!' cried he, as he staggered back into a seat. 'But it cannot be--it is impossible.
I do not recollect you: you are deceiving me! Sir, it is a cruel jest.'

'It is no jest,' said I; 'Heaven be praised. Where is Grute, as you call him? He will tell
you whether it is a jest.'

Grute was the filthy stableman; and the landlord, half-dreaming, ran off to fetch him--a most
unfortunate circumstance, as it put the rogue upon his guard, and prepared him for the part
which it was necessary for his safety that he should play. The landlord returned in two minutes,
dragging Grute in with him. I saw by the sudden pallor of the fellow's countenance, and the
quivering of his lip, that he recognised me on the instant; but he looked doggedly around him,
without manifesting any surprise; and when his master pointed me out as the Englishman supposed
to have been drowned, the fellow laughed brutally, and said the attempt wouldn't do, as I was
too tall by half a head. I perceived the truth at once. He had made free with the contents
of my pockets, in which I had left a few gold pieces, and for his character's sake he could
not afford to admit my identity. The landlord plainly mistrusted my tale, now that he had heard
the evidence of the stableman, and began to assume a very different tone, and to talk cavalierly
of a reference to a magistrate. This reminded me of the letter in my pocket, and I insisted
that he should immediately accompany me to the house of the chief-magistrate, who should judge
between us. He shewed himself provokingly willing to comply with my demand, and, following
me down stairs, entered the carriage. As we drove along, I inquired as to the fate of my valise,
my clothes, and my horse; which latter, especially, I described in a way that appeared to stagger
him. They were all, he said, in the magistrate's custody, and I should hear more of them, and
doubtless recover them, if they were mine, when my claim was decided on. We found the important
functionary at supper. I requested a private interview, which was granted, when I presented
the letter of my host at K----, and waited to see the effect of its perusal. I had to wait
a long while, for my hospitable friend had indulged in a long-winded account of the whole adventure,
which it took a good half-hour to get through. The effect of the narrative was, however, all
that I could have desired: the worthy magistrate asked me a few questions, as he was pleased
to observe, for form's sake, relative to the contents of the valise, which he had himself inspected,
and I replied satisfactorily. He shook me heartily by the hand, congratulated me on my miraculous
and providential escape, not forgetting my marvellous prowess as a swimmer; and, calling in
the landlord of the inn and the old fisherman, wrote out in their presence an order for the
restoration of my property, and a warrant for the apprehension of Grute, who, it appeared,
had helped himself to all my loose cash, with the exception of a single dollar.

There was racing and chasing after Grute during the whole night, but he had had the wit to
take himself out of the way. My valise had luckily not been tampered with; the contents were
all as I left them; and I had the happiness of rewarding the honest fisherman for the pains
he had taken in my behalf, and the confidence he had reposed in me. My poor horse had not been
treated so well. In accordance with some old statute, of which I know nothing, he had been
claimed by the commandant of a small military force stationed in the place, and had been compelled
to commence a course of training, under a heavy dragoon, for the military service. As he had
received but one or two lessons, which consisted almost exclusively of an unlimited allowance
of whip, he had not profited much by instruction. In fact, he had lost his temper without gaining
anything in discipline, and I was eventually obliged to part with him, from the impossibility
of bearing with his strange antics. He had cost me fifty guineas in London, and I sold him
for fewer thalers to a German dealer, who, no doubt, speedily found him a berth in some barrack,
where he completed his education for the army. Altogether, my extraordinary swim, taking expenses
out of pocket and loss of time into account, cost me something over a hundred guineas, and
all I got in exchange for them, was the reputation of a Munchausen whenever I dared to open
my mouth on the subject, and a perennial liability to nightmare, with the repetition and aggravation
of all the worst horrors of that miserable day.[1]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Lest our readers should suppose this curious narrative to be merely an invention of some
desperate romancer, it may be proper to state, that the facts are literally true. The hero
of the adventure, when a young man, about the close of the last century, was driven abroad
by political persecution, and not only realised a fortune, but acquired most of the continental
languages. On returning to England, where he became acquainted with our contributor, he devoted
himself for the rest of his life to acts of private beneficence, keeping up at the same time
a correspondence in Latin with the learned men of other countries.--Ed. C. E. J.

WOOL FROM PINE-TREES.

Interesting accounts have recently appeared in foreign journals of a novel branch of industry
carried on in Silesia, combining so much of ingenuity and utility, as to render a summary of
the information very acceptable to those who are seeking for new sources of employment or of
profit. It appears that in the neighbourhood of Breslau, on a domain known as Humboldt Mead,
there are two establishments alike remarkable: one is a factory for converting the leaves or
spines of the pine-tree into a sort of cotton or wool; in the other, the water which has served
in the manufacture of this vegetable wool, is made use of as salutary baths for invalids. They
were both erected under the direction of Herr von Pannewitz, one of the chief forest-inspectors,
and the inventor of a chemical process, by means of which a fine filamentous substance can
be obtained from the long and slender leaves of the pine. This substance has been called Holz
wolle, wood-wool, from a similarity in its quality to that of ordinary wool; it may be curled,
felted, or spun in the same way.

The Pinus sylvestris, or Scotch fir, from which this new product is derived, has been long
esteemed in Germany for its many valuable qualities; and instead of being left to its natural
growth, is cultivated in plantations of forest-like extent. In this way, many parts of a vast,
dreary, sandy surface are turned to good account, for the tree grows rapidly on a light soil,
imparting to it solidity and consistency, and affords shelter to the oak, which, under such
favourable circumstances, acquires such vigour of development as to outgrow its protector.
About the fortieth year of its growth, the pine yields considerable quantities of resin; and
the value of the wood for building purposes, and for constructions immersed in water, are well
known. Mr Pannewitz has, however, added another to its list of useful applications; and if
the leaves can be employed as described, the Pinus sylvestris may become an object of culture
in countries where it is now neglected.

The acicular leaves of firs, pines, and coniferæ in general, are composed of a bundle, or fasciculus,
as a botanist would say, of extremely fine and tenacious fibres, which are surrounded and held
together by thin pellicles of a resinous substance. If this substance be dissolved by a process
of coction, and the employment of certain chemical reagents, the fibres can then be easily
separated, washed, and cleansed from all foreign matter. According to the mode of treatment,
the woolly substance is fine or coarse, and is employed as wadding in the one case, and in
the other as stuffing for mattresses. Such, in a few words, is an explanation of Mr Pannewitz's
discovery. He has preferred the Pinus sylvestris to other species because of the greater length
of its spines; but there is reason to believe, that it is not the only kind which may be worked
with advantage.

There is said to be no danger in stripping the trees, even while young, as they only need the
whorl of spines to be left at the extremity of each branch, in order to continue their growth;
all the other leaves may be removed without damage. The gathering should take place while they
are in their green state, for at no other time can the woolly substance be extracted. This
operation, which takes place but once in two years, affords employment and pretty good wages
to a number of poor people, some of whom will collect two hundred pounds in a day. The yield
from a branch of the thickness of the finger is estimated at one pound, and a beginner will
strip thirty such branches in a day. In the case of felled trees, the work proceeds with great
rapidity.

The first use made of the filamentous matter, was to substitute it for the wadding used in
quilted counterpanes. In 1842, five hundred counterpanes so prepared were purchased for the
use of the hospital at Vienna; and, after an experience of several years, the purchase has
been renewed. It was remarked, among other things, that the influence of the wood-wool prevented
parasitic insects from lodging in the beds, and the aromatic odour arising from it had been
found as beneficial as it was agreeable. Shortly afterwards, the Penitentiary at Vienna was
provided with the same kind of quilts; and they have since been adopted--as well as mattresses
filled with the same wool--in the Hospital de la Charité at Berlin, and in the Maternity Hospital
and barracks at Breslau. A trial of five years in these different establishments has proved,
that the wood-wool can be very suitably employed for counterpanes, and for stuffed or quilted
articles of furniture, and that it is very durable.

It was found that, at the end of the five years, a wood-wool mattress had cost less than one
made of straw, as the latter requires an addition of two pounds of new straw every year. In
comparison with horsehair, it is three times cheaper; it is safe from the attack of moth, and
in a finished sofa no upholsterer would be able to distinguish between wood-wool and hair-stuffing.

It has been further ascertained that this wool can be spun and woven. The finest gives a thread
similar to that of hemp, and quite as strong. When spun, woven, and combed, a cloth is produced
which has been used for carpets, horse-cloths, &c.; while, mixed with a canvas warp, it will
serve for quilts, instead of being employed in the form of wadding.

In the preparation of this wool, an etherised oil is formed, of an agreeable odour, and green
in colour, but which an exposure to the light changes to a yellowish-orange tint, and which
resumes its original colour on the light being again excluded. Under the rectifying process,
it becomes colourless as water, and is found to differ from the essence of turpentine extracted
from the stem of the same tree. Its employment has proved most salutary in gouty and rheumatic
affections, and when applied to wounds as a balsam; as also in certain cases of worm disease
and cutaneous tumours. In the rectified state, it has been successfully used in the preparation
of lacs for the best kinds of varnish; in lamps it burns as well as olive-oil; and it dissolves
caoutchouc completely and speedily. Already the perfumers of Paris make large use of this pine-oil.

With respect to the baths: it having been discovered that a beneficial result attended the
external application of the liquor left after the coction of the leaves, a bathing establishment
was added to the factory. This liquor is of a greenish-brown tint; and, according to the process,
is either gelatinous and balsamic, or acid; formic acid having been produced in the latter
case. When an increase in the efficacy of the baths is desired, a quantity of extract obtained
by the distillation of the etherised oil above mentioned, which also contains formic acid,
is poured into the liquor. Besides which, the liquid itself is thickened by concentration,
and sent out in sealed jars to those who wish to have baths at home, thus constituting a profitable
article of trade.

We understand that these baths have been in operation for nine years, with a continual increase
of reputation and number of visitors. That the facts are not exaggerated, would appear from
medals having been awarded to M. Weiss, the proprietor and manager, by societies in Berlin
and Altenburg, for the extraordinary results produced. As likely to lead to a new development
of industry, the processes are especially worthy of attention.

The catalogue of utilities is, however, not yet exhausted; there is one more with which we
bring our notice to a close. After the washing of the fibre, a great quantity of refuse membraneous
substance is obtained by filtration. This being moulded into the form of bricks, and dried,
becomes excellent fuel, and gives off so much gas from the resin which it contains, that it
may be used for lighting as well as heating. The making of a thousand hundredweights of the
wool leaves a mass of fuel equal in value to sixty cubic yards of pine-wood.

CHAMBERS'S LIFE AND WORKS OF BURNS.[2]

Beheld in his life-time as a singular example of the genius rising from the humbler shades
of life, Burns is now ranked as a classic among the poets of his country. The interest originally
felt in his personal character and unhappy fate, has been deepened as the high absolute rank
of the poet became appreciated. These changes might be said to call for a more searching inquiry
into his life than was at first deemed necessary; and the task was undertaken by one, of whom
we may at least be permitted to say, that he possessed the requisite zeal and love of the subject.
For obvious reasons, we are not to be expected to say more, in commendation or discommendation,
of the work now under our attention; but we may be allowed to advert to its peculiar plan,
and some of the new details which it brings before the world.

The leading feature of the work is the assumption on which it proceeds--that the writings of
Burns are in a great measure expressive of his personal feelings, and descriptive of the scenery
and circumstances of his own existence, and therefore ought to be involved in his biography.
Each poem, song, and letter, known as his, has therefore been assigned its chronological place
in his memoirs, thus at once lending its own biographical light to the general narrative, and
deriving thence some illustration in return. The consequence is, that, with the help of much
fresh biographical matter drawn from authentic sources, the life of the bard, as he loved to
call himself, is now given comparatively in detail. We can trace him from day to day, and see
the ups and downs of his prospects and his feelings, his strangely mingled scenes of happiness
and misery. We obtain a much closer and more distinct view of his domestic existence than we
ever had before. The real extent of his aberrations, such as they were, is more exactly ascertained.
Some unexpected particulars emerge; as, for instance, that, notwithstanding his poverty, he
occasionally accommodated his friends with money and credit, and almost to the last was able
to be their host as well as their guest. But perhaps the most important result is what we learn
of the wonderful versatility of Burns's feelings and emotions. He is found writing a pensive,
semi-religious letter one day, and the next indulging in some outburst of extravagant merriment.
One day, he indulges in a strain of melancholy recollection regarding a deceased mistress,
commemorating her in an elegy which hardly any one has ever since been able to read without
tears; and within four-and-twenty hours, he is again strumming on the comic lyre. A deep mortification
falls upon him in the shape of a censure from the Board of Excise, a pain in which we are peculiarly
disposed to sympathise; but let us not be too eager to suppose that Burns was permanently affected
by any such mark of moral bondage. A week or two after, he is found keeping a couple of friends
in drink and merriment at his table for a whole night. It is eminently the poet that is thus
brought before us--a being of keen sensibility, but whose gusts of feeling are as quick in
passing as they are violent while they last.

Beyond these few sentences, limited to a description of the structure of this work, we can
only propose to give one or two extracts.

Burns, it clearly appears, while degraded by the humble office assigned to him, did his best,
by performing its duties well, to elevate it. He acted humanely towards poor people, but was
the conscientious servant of the government in protecting the revenue in essential matters.
The editor has been fortunate enough to discover some documents which set his character as
a man of affairs in a favourable light.

'The first is a petition of T. J., farmer at Mirecleugh, addressed to the justices of peace
for Dumfriesshire, reclaiming against a fine of L.5 which Collector Mitchell had imposed on
him for "making fifty-four bushels of malt, without entry, notice, or licence." J. stated that
he had been in the habit of making malt for forty years without making entry of his kiln or
pond, which he deemed unnecessary, because the malting was always effected at one operation,
and not till notice had been given to the proper officer. With respect to "notice" on this
occasion--having inquired of Mr Burns which was the best way of sending it to him, he had been
informed that a letter might be sent to "John Kelloch's," in Thornhill, whence it might be
forwarded by post. He had brought Mrs Kelloch to swear that such a letter had been sent to
her by J.'s son for Mr Burns, but had been mislaid. He offered to swear that he had sent the
notice to Thornhill in good time, and had had no intention to defraud the revenue. With respect
to "licence," J. averred that he had only been prevented from renewing it as usual this year
because Mr Mitchell, on his applying for it, had put him off to another time, on the score
of being too busy at the time to grant it to him.

'In respect of J.'s petition, the justices, Mr Fergusson of Craigdarroch, and Captain Riddel,
ordered the collector to stop proceedings until they should have had an opportunity of inquiring
into the truth of what it set forth. Then came Burns's "Answers to the Petition of T. J.:--

"1. Whether the petitioner has been in use formerly to malt all his grain at one operation,
is foreign to the purpose: this last season he certainly malted his crop at four or five operations;
but be that as it may, Mr J. ought to have known that by express act of parliament no malt,
however small the quantity, can be legally manufactured until previous entry be made in writing
of all the ponds, barns, floors, &c., so as to be used before the grain can be put to steep.
In the Excise entry-books for the division there is not a syllable of T. J.'s name for a number
of years bygone.

"2. True it is that Mr Burns, on his first ride, in answer to Mr J.'s question anent the conveying
of the notices, among other ways pointed out the sending it by post as the most eligible method,
but at the same time added this express clause, and to which Mr Burns is willing to make faith:
'At the same time, remember, Mr J., that the notice is at your risk until it reach me.' Further,
when Mr Burns came to the petitioner's kiln, there was a servant belonging to Mr J. ploughing
at a very considerable distance from the kiln, who left his plough and three horses without
a driver, and came into the kiln, which Mr B. thought was rather a suspicious circumstance,
as there was nothing extraordinary in an Excise-officer going into a legal malt-floor so as
to [induce a man to] leave three horses yoked to a plough in the distant middle of a moor.
This servant, on being repeatedly questioned by Mr Burns, could not tell when the malt was
put to steep, when it was taken out, &c.--in short, was determined to be entirely ignorant
of the affair. By and by, Mr J.'s son came in, and on being questioned as to the steeping,
taking out of the grain, &c., Mr J., junior, referred me to this said servant, this ploughman,
who, he said, must remember it best, as having been the principal actor in the business. The
lad then, having gotten his cue, circumstantially recollected all about it.

"All this time, though I was telling the son and servant the nature of the premunire they had
incurred, though they pleaded for mercy keenly, the affair of the notice having been sent never
once occurred to them, not even the son, who is said to have been the bearer. This was a stroke
reserved for, and worthy of the gentleman himself. As to Mrs Kelloch's oath, it proves nothing.
She did indeed depone to a line being left for me at her house, which said line miscarried.
It was a sealed letter; she could not tell whether it was a malt-notice or not; she could not
even condescend on the month, nor so much as the season of the year. The truth is, T. J. and
his family being Seceders, and consequently coming every Sunday to Thornhill Meeting-house,
they were a good conveyance for the several maltsters and traders in their neighbourhood to
transmit to post their notices, permits, &c.

"But why all this tergiversation? It was put to the petitioner in open court, after a full
investigation of the cause: 'Was he willing to swear that he meant no fraud in the matter?'
And the justices told him that if he swore he would be assoilzied [absolved], otherwise he
should be fined; still the petitioner, after ten minutes' consideration, found his conscience
unequal to the task, and declined the oath.

"Now, indeed, he says he is willing to swear: he has been exercising his conscience in private,
and will perhaps stretch a point. But the fact to which he is to swear was equally and in all
parts known to him on that day when he refused to swear as to-day: nothing can give him further
light as to the intention of his mind, respecting his meaning or not meaning a fraud in the
affair. No time can cast further light on the present resolves of the mind; but time will reconcile,
and has reconciled many a man to that iniquity which he at first abhorred."'

No one can fail to see, even in this piece of business, something of the extraordinary mental
energy of Burns.

