Dear H.--I am a little surprised at no letter from you. This day week, to wit, Saturday, the
8th of March, 1806, I booked off by the Wem coach, Bull and Mouth Inn, directed to you, at
the Rev. Mr. Hazlitt's, Wem, Shropshire, a parcel containing, besides a book, &c., a rare print,
which I take to be a Titian; begging the said W.H. to acknowledge the receipt thereof; which
he not having done, I conclude the said parcel to be lying at the inn, and may be lost; for
which reason, lest you may be a Wales-hunting at this instant, I have authorised any of your
family, whosoever first gets this, to open it, that so precious a parcel may not moulder away
for want of looking after. What do you in Shropshire when so many fine pictures are a-going,
a-going every day in London? Monday I visit the Marquis of Lansdowne's, in Berkeley Square.
Catalogue 2s. 6d. Leonardos in plenty. Some other day this week I go to see Sir Wm. Young's,
in Stratford Place. Hulse's, of Blackheath, are also to be sold this month; and in May, the
first private collection in Europe, Welbore Ellis Agar's. And there are you, perverting Nature
in lying landscapes, filched from old rusty Titians, such as I can scrape up here to send you,
with an additament from Shropshire Nature thrown in to make the whole look unnatural. I am
afraid of your mouth watering when I tell you that Manning and I got into Angerstein's on Wednesday.
Mon Dieu! Such Claudes! Four Claudes bought for more than L10,000 (those who talk of Wilson
being equal to Claude are either mainly ignorant or stupid); one of these was perfectly miraculous.
What colours short of bona fide sunbeams it could be painted in, I am not earthly colourman
enough to say; but I did not think it had been in the possibility of things. Then, a music-piece
by Titian--a thousand-pound picture--five figures standing behind a piano, the sixth playing;
none of the heads, as M. observed, indicating great men, or affecting it, but so sweetly disposed;
all leaning separate ways, but so easy--like a flock of some divine shepherd; the colouring,
like the economy of the picture, so sweet and harmonious--as good as Shakspeare's "Twelfth
Night,"--almost, that is. It will give you a love of order, and cure you of restless, fidgetty
passions for a week after--more musical than the music which it would, but cannot, yet in a
manner does, show. I have no room for the rest. Let me say, Angerstein sits in a room--his
study (only that and the library are shown)--when he writes a common letter, as I am doing,
surrounded with twenty pictures worth L60,000. What a luxury! Apicius and Heliogabalus, hide
your diminished heads!

Yours, my dear painter, C. LAMB.

[Angerstein's was the house of John Julius Angerstein (1735-1823) the financier, in Pall Mall.
He had a magnificent collection of pictures, L60,000 worth of which were bought on his death
by the nation, to form the nucleus of our National Gallery. A portrait of Angerstein by Lawrence
hangs there. The Titian of which Lamb speaks is now attributed to the School of Titian. It
is called "A Concert." Four years you talk of, maybe ten, and you may come back and find such
alterations!

One thing more. When you get to Canton, you will most likely see a young friend of mine, Inspector
of Teas, named Ball. He is a very good fellow and I should like to have my name talked of in
China. Give my kind remembrances to the same Ball. Good bye.

C. L.

I have made strict inquiries through my friend Thompson as to your affairs with the Comp'y.
If there had been a committee yesterday an order would have been sent to the captain to draw
on them for your passage money, but there was no Committee. But in the secretary's orders to
receive you on board, it was specified that the Company would defray your passage, all the
orders about you to the supercargoes are certainly in your ship. Here I will manage anything
you may want done. What can I add but take care of yourself. We drink tea with the Holcrofts
to-morrow. He did not return to England until 1817. His nominal purpose was to practise medicine
there, not to spread Christianity, as Lamb suggests--probably in fun.

This is Manning's reply to Lamb's letter:--

"Dear Lamb--As we are not sailed yet, and I have a few minutes, why should not I give you a
line to say that I received your kind letter yesterday, and shall read it again before I have
done with it. I am sorry I had not time to call on Mary, but I did not even call on my own
Father, and he's 70 and loves me like a Father. I don't know that you can do any thing for
me at the India House: if you hear any thing there about me, communicate it to Mr. Crabtree,
13, Newgate Street. I am not dead, nor dying--some people go into Yorkshire for four [years],
and I have no currant jelly aboard. Tell Holcroft I received his kind letter."

"T. MANNING for ever."]

LETTER 152

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART

[Mr. W.C. Hazlitt dates: June 2, 1806.]

My dear Sarah,--You say truly that I have sent you too many make-believe letters. I do not
mean to serve you so again, if I can help it. I have been very ill for some days past with
the toothache. Yesterday, I had it drawn; and I feel myself greatly relieved, but far from
easy, for my head and my jaws still ache; and, being unable to do any business, I would wish
to write you a long letter, to atone for my former offences; but I feel so languid, that I
am afraid wishing is all I can do.

I am sorry you are so worried with business; and I am still more sorry for your sprained ancle.
You ought not to walk upon it. What is the matter between you and your good-natured maid you
used to boast of? and what the devil is the matter with your Aunt? You say she is discontented.
You must bear with them as well as you can; for, doubtless, it is you[r] poor Mother's teazing
that puts you all out of sorts. I pity you from my heart.

We cannot come to see you this summer, nor do I think it advisable to come and incommode you,
when you for the same expence could come to us. Whenever you feel yourself disposed to run
away from your troubles, come up to us again. I wish it was not such a long, expensive journey,
then you could run backwards and forwards every month or two.

I am very sorry you still hear nothing from Mr. White. I am afraid that is all at an end. What
do you intend to do about Mr. Turner?

I believe Mr. Rickman is well again, but I have not been able to get out lately to enquire,
because of my toothache. Louisa Martin is quite well again.

William Hazlitt, the brother of him you know, is in town. I believe you have heard us say we
like him? He came in good time; for the loss of Manning made Charles very dull, and he likes
Hazlitt better than any body, except Manning.

My toothache has moped Charles to death: you know how he hates to see people ill.

Mrs. Reynolds has been this month past at Deptford, so that I never know when Monday comes.
I am glad you have got your Mother's pension.

If I tell you that you Widow-Blackacreise, you must tell me I Tale-ise, for my Tales seem to
be all the subject matter I write about; and when you see them, you will think them poor little
baby-stories to make such a talk about; but I have no news to send, nor nothing, in short,
to say, that is worth paying two pence for. I wish I could get franks, then I should not care
how short or stupidly I wrote.

Charles smokes still, and will smoke to the end of the chapter.

What is Mr. Turner? and what is likely to come of him? and how do you like him? and what do
you intend to do about it? I almost wish you to remain single till your Mother dies, and then
come and live with us; and we would either get you a husband, or teach you how to live comfortably
without. I think I should like to have you always to the end of our lives living with us; and
I do not know any reason why that should not be, except for the great fancy you seem to have
for marrying, which after all is but a hazardous kind of an affair: but, however, do as you
like; every man knows best what pleases himself best.

I have known many single men I should have liked in my life (if it had suited them) for a husband:
but very few husbands have I ever wished was mine, which is rather against the state in general;
but one never is disposed to envy wives their good husbands. So much for marrying--but however,
get married, if you can.

I say we shall not come and see you, and I feel sure we shall not: but, if some sudden freak
was to come into our wayward heads, could you at all manage?--Your Mother we should not mind,
but I think still it would be so vastly inconvenient.--I am certain we shall not come, and
yet you may tell me, when you write, if it would be horribly inconvenient if we did; and do
not tell me any lies, but say truly whether you would rather we did or not.

God bless you, my dearest Sarah! I wish, for your sake, I could have written a very amusing
letter; but do not scold, for my head aches sadly. Don't mind my headach, for before you get
this it will be well, being only from the pains of my jaws and teeth. Farewell.

Yours affectionately, M. LAMB.

[This letter contains the first mention to Sarah Stoddart of William Hazlitt, who was shortly
to put an end to the claims both of Mr. White and Mr. Turner.

The Tales from Shakespear, although mainly Mary Lamb's book, did not bear her name for many
years, not until after her brother's death. Her connection with it was, however, made public
in more than one literary year-book of her day. Originally they were to be unsigned, but Godwin
"cheated" Lamb into putting a name to them (see letter of Jan. 29, 1807). The single stories,
which Mrs. Godwin issued at sixpence each, are now excessively rare.

(dated)                                  I am Sir, 66 Gower St.,                       Your
obedient ser't., Wednesday                                 R'd. WROUGHTON. It can't be expected
that the present Earl Nelson passes all his time in watering the laurels of the Admiral with
Right Reverend Tears. Certainly he steals a fine day now and then to plot how to lay out the
grounds and mansion at Burnham most suitably to the late Earl's taste, if he had lived, and
how to spend the hundred thousand pound parliament has given him in erecting some little neat
monument to his memory. Or better perhaps, BOXES, in old English character, like Madoc or Thalaba?

I suppose you know poor Mountague has lost his wife. That has been the reason for my sending
off all we have got of yours separately. I thought it a bad time to trouble him. The Tea 25
lb. in 5 5 lb. Papers, two sheets to each, with the chocolate which we were afraid Mrs. W.
would want, comes in one Box and the Hats in a small one. I booked them off last night by the
Kendal waggon. There comes with this letter (no, it comes a day or two earlier) a Letter for
you from the Doctor at Malta, about Coleridge, just received. Nothing of certainty, you see,
only that he is not at Malta. We supt with the Clarksons one night--Mrs. Clarkson pretty well.
Mr. C. somewhat fidgety, but a good man. The Baby has been on a visit to Mrs. Charlotte Smith,
Novellist and morals-trainer, but is returned. But she is stuck fast and I have been obliged
to promise to assist her. To do this it will be necessary to leave off Tobacco. But I had some
thoughts of doing that before, for I sometimes think it does not agree with me. W. Hazlitt
is in Town. I took him to see a very pretty girl professedly, where there were two young girls--the
very head and sum of the Girlery was two young girls--they neither laughed nor sneered nor
giggled nor whispered--but they were young girls--and he sat and frowned blacker and blacker,
indignant that there should be such a thing as Youth and Beauty, till he tore me away before
supper in perfect misery and owned he could not bear young girls. They drove him mad. So I
took him home to my old Nurse, where he recover'd perfect tranquillity. Independent of this,
and as I am not a young girl myself, he is a great acquisition to us. He is, rather imprudently,
I think, printing a political pamphlet on his own account, and will have to pay for the paper,
&c. The first duty of an Author, I take it, is never to pay anything. But non cuivis attigit
adire Corinthum. The Managers I thank my stars have settled that question for me.

Yours truly, C. LAMB.

[Wordsworth's third child, Thomas, who did not grow up, was born June 16, 1806.

"A fine boy!" The quotation is from Mr. H.'s soliloquy after the discovery of his name:--"No
son of mine shall exist, to bear my ill-fated name. No nurse come chuckling, to tell me it
is a boy. No midwife, leering at me from under the lids of professional gravity. I dreamed
of caudle. (Sings in a melancholy tone) Lullaby, Lullaby,-- hush-a-by-baby--how like its papa
it is!--(makes motions as if he was nursing). And then, when grown up, 'Is this your son, sir?'
'Yes, sir, a poor copy of me,--a sad young dog!--just what his father was at his age,--I have
four more at home.' Oh! oh! oh!"

Tobin was James Tobin, whom we have already met, brother of the late dramatist, John Tobin.

Poor Mountague would be Basil Montagu, whose second wife had just died. He married afterwards
Anne Skepper, whom Lamb came to know well, and of whom he speaks in his Elia essay "Oxford
in the Vacation."

The Doctor was Dr. Stoddart. Coleridge had left Malta some months before, as we have seen.
He had also left Rome and was in some foreign town unknown, probably not far from Leghorn,
whence he sailed for England in the following month, reaching Portsmouth in August.

The Baby was Mrs. Godwin, and Charlotte Smith was the poetess (of great fame in her day, but
now forgotten), who was then living at Tilford, near Farnham, in Surrey. She died in the following
October. The passage which I have, with extreme reluctance, omitted, refers to the physical
development of the two ladies. Lamb was writing just then less for Wordsworth than Antiquity.

Hazlitt's political pamphlet was his Free Thoughts on Public Affairs, 1806.]

LETTER 154

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART

[No date. ? Begun on Friday, July 4, 1806.]

Charles and Hazlitt are going to Sadler's Wells, and I am amusing myself in their absence with
reading a manuscript of Hazlitt's; but have laid it down to write a few lines, to tell you
how we are going on. Charles has begged a month's hollidays, of which this is the first day,
and they are all to be spent at home. We thank you for your kind invitations, and were half-inclined
to come down to you; but after mature deliberation, and many wise consultations, such as you
know we often hold, we came to the resolution of staying quietly at home: and during the hollidays
we are both of us to set stoutly to work and finish the Tales, six of them being yet to do.
We thought, if we went anywhere and left them undone, they would lay upon our minds; and that
when we returned, we should feel unsettled, and our money all spent besides: and next summer
we are to be very rich, and then we can afford a long journey some where, I will not say to
Salisbury, because I really think it is better for you to come to us; but of that we will talk
another time.

The best news I have to send you is, that the Farce is accepted. That is to say, the manager
has written to say it shall be brought out when an opportunity serves. I hope that it may come
out by next Christmas: you must come and see it the first night; for if it succeeds, it will
be a great pleasure to you, and if it should not, we shall want your consolation. So you must come.

I shall soon have done my work, and know not what to begin next. Now, will you set your brains
to work and invent a story, either for a short child's story, or a long one that would make
a kind of Novel, or a Story that would make a play. Charles wants me to write a play, but I
am not over anxious to set about it; but seriously will you draw me out a skeleton of a story,
either from memory of any thing that you have read, or from your own invention, and I will
fill it up in some way or other.

The reason I have not written so long is, that I worked, and worked, in hopes to get through
my task before the hollidays began; but at last I was not able, for Charles was forced to get
them now, or he could not have had any at all: and having picked out the best stories first,
these latter ones take more time, being more perplext and unmanageable. But however I hope
soon to tell you that they are quite completed. I have finished one to-day which teazed me
more than all the rest put together. The[y] sometimes plague me as bad as your Lovers do you.
How do you go on, and how many new ones have you had lately?

I met Mrs. Fenwick at Mrs. Holcroft's the other day; she loo[ked very] placid and smiling,
but I was so disconcerted that I hardly knew how to sit upon my chair. She invited us to come
and see her, but we did not invite her in return; and nothing at all was said in an explanatory
sort: so that matter rests at present.

Mrs. Rickman continues very ill--so ill, that there are no hopes of her recovery--for which
I am very sorry indeed.

I am sorry you are altogether so uncomfortable; I shall be glad to hear you are settled at
Salisbury: that must be better than living in a lone house, companionless as you are. I wish
you could afford to bring your Mother up to London; but that is quite impossible.

Your brother wrote a letter a week ago (which passed through our hands) to Wordsworth, to tell
him all he knew of Coleridge; but as he had not heard from C. for some time, there was nothing
in the letter we did not know before.

Thanks for your brother's letters. I preserve them very carefully, and you shall have them
(as the Manager says) when opportunity serves.

Mrs. Wordsworth is brought to bed; and I ought to write to Miss Wordsworth to thank her for
the information, but I suppose I shall defer it till another child is coming. I do so hate
writing letters. I wish all my friends would come and live in town. Charles has been telling
me even it is better [than] two months that he ought to write to your brother. [It is not]
my dislike to writing letters that prevents my [writing] to you, but sheer want of time, I
assure you, because [I know] you care not how stupidly I write, so as you do but [hear at the]
time what we are about.

Let me hear from you soon, and do let me hear some [good news,] and don't let me hear of your
walking with sprained ancles again; no business is an excuse for making yourself lame.

I hope your poor Mother is better, and Aunty and Maid jog on pretty well; remember me to them
all in due form and order. Charles's love, and our best wishes that all your little busy affairs
may come to a prosperous conclusion.

Yours affectionately, M. LAMB.

Friday evening.

[Added later:--]

They (Hazlitt and Charles) came home from Sadler's Wells so dismal and dreary dull on Friday,
that I gave them both a good scolding--quite a setting to rights; and I think it has done some
good, for Charles has been very chearful ever since. I begin to hope the home hollidays will
go on very well. Mrs. Rickman is better. Rickman we saw at Captain Burney's for the first time
since her illness last night.

Write directly, for I am uneasy about your Lovers; I wish something was settled. God bless you.

Once more, yours affectionately, M. LAMB.

Sunday morning [July 6, or more probably 13].--I did not put this in the post, hoping to be
able to write a less dull letter to you this morning; but I have been prevented, so it shall
go as it is. You must not mind the many wretchedly dull letters I have sent you; for, indeed,
I cannot help it, my mind is so dry always after poring over my work all day. But it will soon
be over.

I am cooking a shoulder of Lamb (Hazlitt dines with us); it will be ready at two o'Clock, if
you can pop in and eat a bit with us.

[The programme at Sadler's Wells on July 4, 1806, was: "Aquatic Theatre, Sadler's Wells. A
new dance called Grist and Puff, or the Highland Fling. The admired comic pantomime, Harlequin
and the Water Kelpe. New melodramatic Romance, The Invisible Ring; or, The Water Monstre and
Fire Spectre." The author of both was Mr. C. Dibdin, Jun. "Real water."

Mary Lamb's next work, after the Tales from Shakespear, was Mrs. Leicester's School. Charles
Lamb meanwhile was preparing his Dramatic Specimens and Adventures of Ulysses.

Mrs. Rickman did not die then, She lived until 1836.]

LETTER 155

MARY LAMB TO DOROTHY WORDSWORTH

[P.M. August 29, 1806.]

My dear Miss Wordsworth--After I had put my letter in the post yesterday I was uneasy all the
night because of some few expressions relative to poor Coleridge--I mean, in saying I wished
your brother would come to town and that I wished your brother would consult Mr. Southey. I
am very sure your brother will take no step in consequence of any foolish advice that I can
give him, so far I am easy, but the painful reflections I have had during a sleepless night
has induced me to write merely to quiet myself, because I have felt ever since, that in the
present situation of Coleridge, returned after an absence of two years, and feeling a reluctance
to return to his family, I ought not to throw in the weight of a hair in advising you or your
Brother, and that I ought not to have so much as named to you his reluctance to return to Keswick,
for so little is it in my power to calculate on his actions that perhaps in a few days he may
be on his return home.

You, my dear friend, will perfectly understand me that I do not mean that I might not freely
say to you anything that is upon my mind--but [the] truth is, my poor mind is so weak that
I never dare trust my own judgement in anything: what I think one hour a fit of low spirits
makes me unthink the next. Yesterday I wrote, anxiously longing for Mr. Wordsworth and Mr.
Southey to endeavour to bring Mrs. C. to consent to a separation, and to day I think of the
letter I received from Mrs. Coleridge, telling me, as joyful news, that her husband is arrived,
and I feel it very wrong in me even in the remotest degree to do anything to prevent her seeing
that husband--she and her husband being the only people who ought to be concerned in the affair.

All that I have said, or meant to say, you will perfectly understand, it being nothing more
than to beg you will consider both my letter to day and yesterday as if you had not read either,
they being both equally the effect of low spirits, brought on by the fatigue of Coleridge's
conversation and the anxious care even to misery which I have felt since he has been here,
that something could be done to make such an admirable creature happy. Nor has, I assure you,
Mrs. Coleridge been without her full share in adding to my uneasiness. They say she grows fat
and is very happy--and people say I grow fat and look happy--

