After a decent interval of sprightly conversation, he called on the widow for a toast; who
very smartly retorted, "Well, sir, here's George Washington!"  At which he darkened a little,
but drank it off with an officer-like politeness.

The next morning early, we left the good Mrs. Jenkins; and burning with impatience to give
Watson another race, we drove on Jehu-like.

We encamped that night almost within sight of the enemy's fires: but found them too much on
the alert for surprise.  We kept, however, a good look out, and learning next morning, that
a roosting party were out, Marion detached my brother colonel Horry, with some choice cavaliers,
to attack them; which he did with such spirit, that at the first onset he killed nine, and
made the balance, sixteen, all prisoners. The rogues were so overloaded with plunder, that
for their lives they could not regain their camp, though in full view of it when they were
charged.  This brilliant stroke of my brother, threw the enemy's camp into the utmost hurry
and uproar; and their dragoons were quickly mounted, dashing out to rescue their comrades;
but in vain, for my brother brought them all off in safety to our camp.

Our strength at this time was far inferior to that of the enemy. But it soon became alarmingly
reduced.  For learning that, besides this heavy force under Watson, there was another from
Camden under colonel Doyle, and also of mounted tories from Pedee, all in full march against
us, our men took a panic and began to desert, and those who stayed behind looked very serious,
and talked as if certain ruin both to themselves and families would follow from their continuing
to fight in so hopeless a cause.

In answer to these desponding gentlemen, I replied, that I was ashamed and grieved too, to
hear them talk at that rate.

"Our prospects," said I, "gentlemen, are to be sure dark, very dark; yet thank God, they are
not desperate.  We have often before now seen as heavy clouds hanging over us; and yet with
heaven's blessing on our arms, those clouds have been dispersed, and golden days restored.
And who knows but we may shortly see it so again?  I am sure we have good reason to expect
it; and also to hope that God will assist us, who are only fighting to make ourselves free
and happy, according to his own most blessed will.  And will it not be a most sweet cordial
to your spirits as long as you live, to think that, in such trying times as these, you stood
up for your country, and fought and won for yourselves and children all the blessings of liberty.

"And, besides," said I, "do not the tories, who are more than half the authors of your misfortunes,
possess large estates? And have you not arms in your hands, wherewith to pay yourselves out
of their ill-saved treasures?"

This speech seemed to raise their spirits a good deal.

I then went to see the general, who with his hands behind him, was walking backwards and forwards
in front of his tent, meditating, no doubt, on the desertion of his men; whose numbers, from
more than two hundred, were now reduced to less than seventy.

"General Marion," said I, "I am sorry to tell you that our men are now so few; especially since,
according to report, we shall soon want so many."

"Why," replied he, "that is the very thing I have been grieving at; but it will signify nothing
for us to stand here sighing and croaking; so pray go and order a muster of the men, that I
may say a few words to them before they all run off and leave me."

Soon as the troops were all paraded around the door of his tent, he stepped upon the trunk
of a fallen pine, and in his plain but impressive manner, addressed us nearly as follows: --

"Gentlemen and fellow-soldiers.

"It is not for words to express what I feel when I look around upon your diminished numbers.
Yesterday I commanded 200 men; men whom I gloried in, and who I fondly thought, would have
followed me through my dangers for their country.  And, now, when their country most needs
their services, they are nearly all gone! And even those of you who remain, are, if report
be true, quite out of heart; and talk, that you and your families must be ruined if you resist
any longer! But, my friends, if we shall be ruined for bravely resisting our tyrants, what
will be done to us if we tamely lie down and submit to them? In that event, what can we expect
but to see our own eternal disgrace, and the wide-spread ruin of our country; when our bravest
and best citizens shall be hung up like dogs, and their property confiscated to enrich those
villains who deserted their country, and joined her enemies; when Cornwallis, Rawdon and Tarleton,
after so long plundering and murdering your friends, shall, in reward of such services, be
set over you as your governors and lord lieutenants, with princely salaries out of your labors;
when foreign bishops and hireling clergy shall be poured upon you like hosts of consecrated
locusts, consuming the tithes and fat of the land; when British princes, and nobles, and judges,
shall swarm over your devoted country, thick as eagles over a new-fallen carcass; when an insatiate
king, looking on your country as his plantation, and on your children as his slaves, shall
take away your substance, every year, for his pomps and pleasures; and to keep you under for
ever, shall fill your land with armies; and when those armies, viewing you with malignant eyes,
shall constantly be insulting you as conquered rebels; and under pretence of discovering among
you the seeds of another rebellion, shall be perpetually harassing and giving up to military
execution the best and worthiest of your fellow-citizens?

"Now my brave brethren in arms, is there a man among you, who can bear the thought of living
to see his dear country and friends in so degraded and wretched a state as this?  If there
be, then let that man leave me and retire to his home.  I ask not his aid. But, thanks to God,
I have now no fears about you:  judging by your looks, I feel that there is no such man among
us.  For my own part I look upon such a state of things as a thousand times worse than death.
And God is my judge this day, that if I could die a thousand deaths, most gladly would I die
them all, rather than live to see my dear country in such a state of degradation and wretchedness."

In reply to this speech of our honored general, we told him, in brief, it was on account of
his noble sentiments we had always so highly esteemed him; that it was on account of these
we had already suffered so much, and were ready to suffer more; and that rather than see our
country in that wretched state which he had so feelingly described, and which, with him, we
firmly believed would be the case if the British were to get the upper hand, we had made up
our minds to fight by his side to a glorious death.

I never saw such a change on the face of a human being, as then took place on that of Marion.
His eyes sparkled with pleasure, while in transport he exclaimed -- "Well, now colonel Doyle,
look sharp, for you shall presently feel the edge of our swords."

Soon as night came on we mounted, and took the swamps of Lynch's creek, though swimming deep,
and after a long time spent in plunging and splashing through the dark floods, we got over,
at least about two-thirds of us. The rest, driven down by the force of the current, were cast
ashore on hills and high banks, which by the freshet were converted into islands; and there
they continued whooping and hallooing to each other all night. When the welcome light returned,
they plunged again into the furious stream, and though swept down a good way by the force of
the current, arrived safely on our side where we had prepared some large fires to dry their
clothes and muskets, and plenty of roasted roots and Indian cakes for breakfast.

As God was pleased to have it, none of us lost our lives, though many did their great coats,
blankets, and saddles, and some few their pieces. As to myself, I must needs say, I was never
so near the other world in my life.  For, as we were borne along down the stream in the dark,
my horse and I were carried under the limb of a tree hung thick with wild vines, which soon
caught me by the head like Absalom, and there held me fast, dangling in the furious flood,
while my horse was swept from under me.  I hallooed for some time like a lusty fellow, without
getting any answer, which made me begin to think my chance was bad. And, God forgive me for
it! I could not help thinking it a sad thing, that after so many fierce frays and hard knocks
with the British and tories, I should come at last to be choked like a blind puppy, in this
dirty swamp: but God be praised for his good angel, who had brought me through six dangers,
and now took me out of the seventh.  For, as I was near giving out, a bold young fellow of
the company overheard me bawling, and having the advantage of a stout horse, dashed in and
took me safely off.

I was afraid at first that my horse was drowned -- but sagaciously following the rest of the
horses, he made his way good, but lost my saddle, great coat, and clothes.  But what grieved
me most of all was the loss of my holsters, with a pair of elegant silver mounted pistols,
a present from Macdonald, and which he had taken from a British officer whom he killed near
Georgetown.

Soon as our firearms were dried, and ourselves and horses were refreshed, we mounted and rode
hard all that day, to surprise colonel Doyle. About midnight we had approached the house of
a good whig, who told us that Doyle had been there, but that warned by an express from Camden,
he had started in great haste, and was certainly by that time far beyond our reach.  We were
much puzzled in our minds for the meaning of this precipitate retreat of colonel Doyle; however,
after one day of welcome rest and high cheer, we faced about, fully determined, notwithstanding
our inferiority of force, once more to try our fortune with colonel Watson.  But in reaching
the ground where we had left him encamped, we got advice that he too, with all his troops,
were gone off, at a tangent, as hard as he could drive. While we were wondering what could
have possessed the British to scamper thus in every direction, captain Conyers, of Lee's legion,
hove in sight, with the welcome news that the brave colonel Lee was at hand, coming up full
tilt to join us; and also that general Green, with a choice detachment from the great Washington,
was bending towards Camden, to recover the laurels which the incautious Gates had lost. These
glorious tidings at once explained the cause of the enemy's flight, and inspired us with a
joy which the reader can better conceive than I express.

Chapter 24.

  Marion's method of managing the militia -- sends the author
  on another expedition against the tories -- anecdote of Mr. F. Kinloch --
  curious dream of black Jonathan, and fortunate escape of Mr. Kinloch --
  the author's party surprised by the British, but come off
  with flying colors.

The world, perhaps, never contained a partisan officer who better understood the management
of militia than did general Marion. He was never for `dragooning' a man into the service. "God
loves a cheerful giver, and so do I," said he, "a willing soldier. To have him such you must
convince him that it is his interest, for interest is every man's pole star.  Every man wishes
to be happy, and thereto wishes a happy wife and children, a happy country and friends. Convince
him that all these invaluable blessings cannot be had without sweet liberty, and you shall
have a soldier as brave as Washington. -- For no man, worthy of the name, could ever yet bear
to see his wife, children and friends, enslaved and miserable." Such was Marion's method of
making soldiers.  And what with this, and the cruelty of the British and tories, he had with
him, perhaps, some of as brave and desperate men as ever fought.

"Never ride a free horse to death," he used to say to his officers; "push, while he is fresh,
but soon as he begins to lag, then lie by and feed high is your play."

For this purpose he always kept a snug hiding-place in reserve for us; which was Snow's Island,
a most romantic spot, and admirably fitted to our use.  Nature had guarded it, nearly all around,
with deep waters and inaccessible marshes; and the neighboring gentlemen were all rich, and
hearty whigs, who acted by us the double part of generous stewards and faithful spies, so that,
while there, we lived at once in safety and plenty.

We had reposed ourselves but two days in the pleasant wilds of Snow's Island, before Marion,
learning that a part of the enemy were in the neighborhood, desired me to take captains Clarke
and Irwin, with fifty men, and try if I could not bring him a good account of them.

We encamped the first night on the plantation of Mr. John Withers, where hearing that Mr. F.
Kinloch, our member of Congress, was at a neighboring house, I sent him the following note.

  Honorable Sir,

If in these dangerous times you can think yourself safe
among a handful of militia-men, I shall be very glad to see you at our camp.
As to supper, thank God we can give you a trencher of fat pork and potatoes,
but for bed and furniture, we can promise you nothing better
than earth and sky.  I shall place a sentinel on the road to conduct you to,
    Honorable Sir, your friend,
                                   Peter Horry.

Mr. Kinloch, who was one of the cleverest men in the world, instantly set out to come to us,
but unluckily missed our sentinel, and went several miles below us to Mr. Alexander Rose's
plantation, managed by a mulatto driver named Jonathan.  The day being nearly spent, Jonathan
very politely urged Mr. Kinloch to alight and spend the night there, promising him a warm supper
and a good bed.  Mr. Kinloch accepted Jonathan's offer very cheerfully, and after taking part
of a nice fowl and a cup of coffee, went to bed.  He had not slept long before Jonathan waked
him up, and, with great terror in his looks, told him, "he was mighty 'fraid there was harm
a-brewing."

"Aye, Jonathan! why so, my good lad."

"Oh, sir," replied Jonathan, "such a dream as I have had, sir! a marvellous bad dream about
the enemy's coming upon you to-night, sir!"

"Poh!" quoth Mr. Kinloch, turning himself over for another nap: "I have dreamed nothing about
it, Jonathan.  And I'm sure such a dream ought to have come to me, and not to you:  so we'll
even go to sleep again, and trust to heaven."

Accordingly he fell asleep a second time; but had not long enjoyed that sweetest of opiates,
before Jonathan comes again, and awakes him with the old story of his dream.

"Well, Jonathan," said Mr. Kinloch, very good-naturedly, "if you are determined to turn me
out of doors, I suppose I must go. But where can I get to this time of night?"

"Why, sir," quoth Jonathan, "I'll get your horse and go with you to the main road, sir, and
from there, you can't miss your way back to the house you came from this afternoon."

On Jonathan's return from the short distance he had conducted Mr. Kinloch, he found the yard
filled with the British light horse!

These dreams are droll things; but they sometimes come so well attested, that there is no doubting
them.  He who made our frame, can certainly speak to us as well asleep as awake; and the wise
will feel the importance of making a friend of Him, who can cause an airy dream to defend us
as effectually as a legion of angels.

The next night, just as we were about to encamp, we lighted on a negro fellow, belonging to
Mr. Joseph Alston, whom I quickly had by the heels, lest he should give intelligence to the
enemy.  But, as the devil would have it, just before day, the sergeant of the guard, overcome
by the negro's importunities, loosened him and let him go. And, mark now, young officers, what
comes from disobeying orders. This villain of a blackamoor had not gone above three miles before
he fell in with the British, to whom, Judas-like, he betrayed us off hand! and they as quickly
took horse, and pushed on to surprise us.

By sunrise I had all my men mounted; captain Clarke leading the advance, myself and captain
Irvin bringing up the rest of the corps.

The British first discovered captain Clarke, which they did in the way of a glimpse, through
an opening in the woods; then sounding their bugles, they rushed on to the charge. Unfortunately,
Clarke had not yet seen the enemy, and mistaking their bugles for the huntsmen's horns, ordered
a halt to see the deer go by. But instead of a herd of flying deer, behold! a column of British
cavalry all at once bursting into the road, and shouting and rushing on with drawn swords to
the charge.  In a moment, as if themselves metamorphosed into deer, Clarke and his advance
wheeled about, and giving their horses "the timber",* flew back upon our main body, roaring
out as they came in sight -- "The British! the British!"

--
* This is a Carolina phrase for slashing.  If a husband should
  so far forget himself as to beat his wife! which, thank God,
  is very rare, his neighbors, with great scorn, say of him
  as he pokes his hated face along, Aye, that's the jockey
  that gives his wife the timber.
--

Quick as thought my men caught the panic, and facing about, took to their heels, and went off
as if the d---l had been behind them. I bawled after them as loud as I could roar, "Halt! Halt!"
but I might as well have bawled to the whirlwinds, for it appeared to me the louder I bawled,
the swifter the rascals flew.  Whereupon I clapped spurs to my young Janus, and went off after
them at full stretch, hoping to gain their front and so bring them to.  Being mounted on a
young full-blooded charger, fresh and strong from the stable, I bid fair to gain my point too,
for I was coming up with them hand over hand. --  But, in that very juncture of time, as the
Lord was pleased to order it, my girth gave way, my saddle turned, and my charger fetching
a ground start, threw me, saddle, holsters, and all, full ten feet over his head, and then
ran off.  I received no harm, God be praised for it, but recovering my legs in an instant,
bawled out again to my men to halt and form.

Happily for me, at the very moment of my disaster, the enemy, suspecting our flight to be only
a finesse, had halted, while only sixteen dragoons under colonel Camp, continued the chase.

Scorning to fly from such a handful, some of my more resolute fellows, thirteen in number,
faced about, and very deliberately taking their aim at the enemy as they came up, gave them
a `spanker', which killed upwards of half their number.  The rest took to flight, leaving their
colonel, whose horse was slain, to shift for himself, which he quickly did by running into
the woods.

The British were so near us when they received the fire of my men, that one of them, a stout
fellow, as he wheeled to go off, came so close to me, where I stood on the ground, that he
was lifting his broadsword for a back-handed stroke, which would probably have saved me the
trouble of writing this history, had I not, with one of my pistols, which I took from the saddle
when my horse left me, anticipated his kindness, by driving a bullet through his shoulder,
which brought him to the ground. Then mounting his horse, while my men caught the horses of
those that were killed, we galloped off, very well satisfied that the affair had turned out
no worse.

On returning to Marion, I could not help complaining to him of my men, whose behavior, I said,
in this last affair, had been so very dastardly, that I was much afraid, I should never again
put confidence in them, nor gain any credit by commanding them.  "Pshaw!" said he, with a smile,
"it is because you do not understand the management of them: you command militia; it will not
do to expect too much from that sort of soldiers.  If on turning out against the enemy, you
find your men in high spirits, with burning eyes all kindling around you, that's your time,
then in close columns, with sounding bugles and shining swords, dash on, and I'll warrant your
men will follow you, eager as the lion's whelps bounding with their sire to the chase of the
buffaloes. But on the other hand, if by any un-looked-for providence they get dismayed, and
begin to run, you are not to fly in a passion with them, and show yourself as mad as they are
cowardly.  No! you must learn to run too: and as fast as they; nay FASTER, that you may get
into the front and encourage them to rally.

"And as to the credit that you are to get by commanding them, I find, my dear fellow, that
you are entirely in the wrong there also. Our country cannot expect us to cope with British
regulars.  War is an art, the deepest of all arts, because the greatest of all earthly consequences
depend on it.  And none can expect to be masters of that terrible art, but such as serve a
long apprenticeship to it.  But as we have served no apprenticeship, we can know but little
about it in comparison with our enemies, who in discipline and experience have greatly the
advantage of us.  But, thank God, we have our advantages too. -- We are far better riders,
better woodsmen, and better marksmen than they. These are noble advantages.  Let us but improve
them by redoubled activity and vigilance, and kindness to our men, and especially by often
conversing with them on the grounds of the war, the merits of our cause, and the vast consequences
depending.  Let us, I say, in this way, make them soldiers in principle, and fond of their
officers, and all will be well yet.  By cutting off the enemy's foraging parties, drawing them
into ambuscades and falling upon them by surprise, we shall, I hope, so harass and consume
them, as to make them glad to get out of our country.  And then, the performance of such a
noble act will bring us credit, and credit enough too, in the eyes of good men; while as to
ourselves, the remembrance of having done so much to vindicate the rights of man, and make
posterity the happier for us, will afford us a pleasure that may outlive this momentary being."

Chapter 25.

  Colonel Harry Lee joins general Marion -- Georgetown surprised --
  colonel Campbell made prisoner -- major Irwin killed --
  adjutant Crookshanks miraculously saved by his sweetheart --
  force of female affection -- American generosity contrasted with
  British barbarism -- interesting anecdotes of Mr. Cusac,
  young Gales and Dinkins, colonel Lee's little bugler, John Wiley,
  Peter Yarnal, young M'Coy, major Brown, colonel Haynes, and lord Rawdon.

The next day, colonel Lee with his legion came up, to the inexpressible joy of us all; partly
on account of his cavalry, which to be sure, was the handsomest we had ever seen; but much
more on account of himself, of whom we had heard that, in deep art and undaunted courage, he
was a second Marion. --  This, our high opinion of him, was greatly exalted by his own gallant
conduct, for he had been with us but a few days before he proposed the surprise of Georgetown,
which was very cordially concurred with by general Marion.

The infantry and cavalry employed on the occasion, were to approach the town at different points,
after midnight, and at a signal from the latter, to commence the attack.  Unfortunately, the
cavalry did not get up in time, owing to some fault of their guide.  The infantry arrived at
the appointed moment, and dreading the dangers of delay, charged at once into the town, which
they found utterly unprepared for an attack. Colonel Campbell, the commander, was made prisoner
in his bed; adjutant Crookshanks, major Irwin, and other officers were sound asleep at a tavern
belonging to a genteel family, with whom they had spent the evening with great hilarity.  A
detachment of our men approached the house and surrounded it.  Soon as the alarm was given,
the officers leaped out of bed, and not waiting to dress, flew into the piazza, flourishing
their pistols and shouting to the charge. Major Irwin, with more courage than discretion, fired
a pistol, and would have tried another, but just as he had cocked it, he was stopped short
by the stroke of a bayonet, which ended him and his courage together. Adjutant Crookshanks,
acting in the same heroic style, would have shared the same fate, had it not been for an angel
of a young woman, daughter of the gentleman of the house.  This charming girl was engaged to
be married to Crookshanks.  Waked by the firing and horrid din of battle in the piazza, she
was at first almost 'reft of her senses by the fright. But the moment she heard her lover's
voice, all her terrors vanished, and instead of hiding herself under the bedclothes, she rushed
into the piazza amidst the mortal fray, with no armor but her love, no covering but her flowing
tresses.  Happily for her lover, she got to him just in time to throw her arms around his neck
and scream out, "Oh save! save major Crookshanks!"  Thus, with her own sweet body shielding
him against the uplifted swords of her enraged countrymen!

Crookshanks yielded himself our prisoner; but we paroled him on the spot, and left him to those
delicious sentiments which he must have felt in the arms of an elegant young woman, who had
saved his life by an effort of love sufficient to endear her to him to all eternity.

It was told us afterwards of this charming girl, that as soon as we were gone, and, of course,
the danger past and the tumult of her bosom subsided, she fell into a swoon, from which it
was with difficulty that she was recovered.  Her extreme fright, on being waked by the firing
and horrid uproar of battle in the house, and her strong sympathy in her lover's danger, together
with the alarm occasioned by finding herself in his arms, were too much for her delicate frame.

There is a beauty in generous actions which charms the souls of men! and a sweetness, which
like that immortal love whence it flows, can never die. The eyes of all, even the poorest soldiers
in our camp, sparkled with pleasure whenever they talked, as they often did, of this charming
woman, and of our generosity to major Crookshanks; and to this day, even after a lapse of thirty
years, I never think of it but with pleasure; a pleasure as exquisite, perhaps, as what I felt
at the first moment of that transaction.

And it is a matter of great satisfaction to me, to think how nobly different in this respect
was our conduct from that of the British. I speak not of the British nation, which I hold most
magnanimous; but of their officers in Carolina, such as Cornwallis, Rawdon, Tarleton, Weymies,
Brown, and Balfour, who instead of treating their prisoners as we did Crookshanks, have often
been known to butcher them in cold blood; though their fathers, mothers and children, on bended
knees, with wringing hands and streaming eyes, have been imploring pity for them.

There was Mr. Adam Cusac, of Williamsburg district; this brave man,

    "This buckskin Hampden; that, with dauntless breast,
    The base invaders of his rights withstood,"

was surprised in his own house by major Weymies, who tore him away from his shrieking wife
and children, marched him up to Cheraw court-house, and after exposing him to the insults of
a sham trial, had him condemned and hung!  The only charge ever exhibited against him was,
that he had shot across Black river at one of Weymies' tory captains.

There was that gallant lad of liberty, Kit Gales, with his brave companion, Sam Dinkins:  these
two heroic youths were dogged to the house of a whig friend, near the hills of Santee, where
they were surprised in their beds by a party of tories, who hurried them away to lord Rawdon,
then on his march from Charleston to Camden.  Rawdon quickly had them, according to his favorite
phrase, "knocked into irons", and marched on under guard with his troops.  On halting for breakfast,
young Gales was tucked up to a tree, and choked with as little ceremony as if he had been a
mad dog.  He and young Dinkins had, it seems, the day before, with their horses and rifles,
ventured alone, so near the British army, as to fire several shots at them! For such heroic
daring in defence of their country, in place of receiving applause from lord Rawdon, Gales,
as we have seen, received his bloody death. His gallant young friend, Dinkins, was very near
drawing his rations of a like doleful dish, for lord Rawdon had him mounted upon the same cart
with the halter round his neck, ready for a launch into eternity, when the tories suggested
to his lordship their serious apprehensions that a terrible vengeance might follow:  this saved
his life.

Everybody has heard the mournful story of colonel Lee's little bugler, and how he was murdered
by colonel Tarleton.  This "poor beardless boy", as Lee, in his pathetic account of that horrid
transaction, calls him, had been mounted on a very fleet horse; but to gratify a countryman
who had brought some news of the British, and was afraid of falling into their hands, Lee ordered
the boy to exchange his horse, a moment, for that of the countryman, which happened to be a
miserable brute. This Lee did in his simplicity, not even dreaming that any thing in the shape
of civilized man could think of harming such a child. Scarcely had Lee left him, when he was
overtaken by Tarleton's troopers, who dashed up to him with looks of death, brandishing their
swords over his head.  In vain his tender cheeks, reminding them of their own youthful brothers,
sought to touch their pity; in vain, with feeble voice, and as long as he was able, he continued
to cry for quarter. They struck their cruel swords into his face and arms, which they gashed
with so many mortal wounds that he died the next day.

"Is your name Wiley?" said one of Tarleton's captains, whose name was TUCK, to Mr. John Wiley,
sheriff of Camden, who had lately whipped and cropped a noted horse thief, named Smart.  "Is
your name Wiley?" said captain Tuck to the young man, at whose door he rode up and asked the
question. -- "Yes, sir," replied Mr. Wiley.  "Well, then, sir, you are a d--n-d rascal," rejoined
captain Tuck, giving him at the same time a cruel blow over the forehead with his broadsword.
Young Wiley, though doomed to die, being not yet slain, raised his naked arm to screen the
blow. This, though no more than a common instinct in poor human nature in the moment of terror,
served but to redouble the fury of captain Tuck, who continued his blows at the bleeding, staggering
youth, until death kindly placed him beyond the reach of human malice.

All this was done within a few hundred paces of lord Cornwallis, who never punished captain Tuck.

