THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 20. No. 559]  SATURDAY, JULY 28, 1832.  [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPORTO

Persons who are looking for "news from the seat of war" will probably hail the timely appearance
of this Engraving, and regard it as folks sitting at a play do a drop-scene between the acts.
The reader knows our pacific politics: we are of the pen, not of the sword; but we cannot be
indifferent to a great political result, when

  Old men, and beldams, in the streets
  Do prophesy upon it.

Oporto is a place of great commercial as well as political consideration. Thousands of Englishmen
have a grateful recollection of the former importance upon their very lips. Its situation is
one of great natural beauty. It is the largest city in Portugal, Lisbon excepted. It has been
commonly said to owe its origin to the Romans;[1] but it appears, from the best authors, to
have been founded about A.D. 417 by the Suevi, who had established themselves in Braga and
other parts of ancient Galicia, but who were driven by the Alani to the banks of the Douro,
where they fortified themselves on the steep hill now occupied by the cathedral and the bishop's
palace, and which is still distinguished by the appellation of the Cidade de Antiga.

    [1] At Coimbra, about two days' journey from Oporto, is a Roman
    bridge and aqueduct, nearly entire.

The city occupies the north bank of the Douro, (anciently Durius,) about five miles from the
mouth of the river, and the Atlantic Ocean. The approach from thence to Oporto is remarkably
beautiful. The dangers of the bar, across the mouth of the river, once passed,[2] a succession
of interesting objects present themselves on both sides, as we ascend towards the city. The
little town of St. Joao da Foz stands on the north bank, close to the sea, and is the favourite
resort of the wealthier inhabitants of Oporto during the violent heat of the summer. The river,
immediately within the bar, expands into the appearance of a lake. A little higher up it is
narrowed by two abrupt hills. That on the right terminates in a precipice of bright hard sandstone,
descending so steeply to the water's edge, that but lately a road has been made from Oporto
along the bank of the river, to St. Joao da Foz, by blasting and hewing down a sufficient portion
of the rock. This height, from its precipitous sides, is called the Monte d'Arabida, and forms
the western boundary of a lovely valley, opening upon the Douro, covered with the Quintas,
or villas, of the wealthier inhabitants of the adjoining city. Most of the Quintas at the mouth
of the river command delightful prospects of the Atlantic Ocean, and the splendid effects produced
on these scenes at sunset, in this glowing climate, are almost indescribable. Some idea of
its beauty may be formed by reference to Colonel Batty's view from this point.[3] The appearance
of the Douro, with its numerous shipping, and the variety of interesting objects scattered
on its cheerful banks, render this one of the most pleasing scenes in the circle of Oporto.

    [2] The dangerous passage across the bar of the Douro, and its
    shifting sands, are well known. The care and skill required to
    navigate a vessel with safety into the Douro, even during the
    summer, may give an idea of what the perils of this dangerous
    bar must be during the winter months; when the coast is exposed
    to the unbridled fury of the westerly winds, and to the full
    force of the Atlantic waves.--Portugal Illustrated, by the Rev.
    W. Kinsey, B.D.

    [3] See Select Views of Oporto. By Lieut. Col. Batty, F.R.S.,
    the accuracy of which may be said to extend as far as pictorial
    art can succeed in conveying foreign objects to our firesides.
    We are indebted for our Engraving to this valuable work.

To economize time and space we must quit this enchanting spot. Gondolas, like those at Venice,
are used on the river, but will not suffice for our celerity. We must reach at once the point
of our Engraving. The view is taken from Villa Nova, an important suburb of Oporto, on the
opposite bank of the river. The city may be divided into the high and the low town. It contains,
in a civil sense, five wards, or bairros, of which the Sé, or cathedral hill, and the Vittoria,
or height opposite to the Sé, (and crowned by a church, which was founded in commemoration
of a celebrated battle fought on the spot with the Moors, which terminated in their defeat
and expulsion from the place,) form the town properly called Oporto; and it is possible still
to trace the remains of the old wall, which formerly surrounded and defended the place. The
three other quarters, San Idelfonso, Miragaya, and Villa Nova, are open. The latter is connected
with the principal town by a bridge of boats, which is so badly constructed as to be scarcely
able to sustain the violent power of the river when swelled by winter torrents. The Douro,
like the Rhine and the Rhone, and all other rivers which flow through a rocky and often confined
channel, commits at certain seasons the greatest ravages; and property to a considerable amount
is annually lost at Oporto, by the irresistible force with which the river pours down and carries
every thing before it. A bridge of granite has been long talked of to connect Villa Nova and
Oporto, but the funds are not yet forthcoming, and the expense will be considerable.

The Engraving represents the most ancient part of the city of Oporto. We are here directly
fronting the bishop's palace, which, with the Sé, or Cathedral,[4] and buildings, to the left,
occupy the crest of the hill. Further left is the steeple of the church dos Clerigos, said
to be the loftiest in Portugal after that of Mafra. This tower is visible from the sea at a
distance of ten leagues, and serves as an important landmark for ships steering to the mouth
of the Douro. It was erected in the year 1748, and is built entirely of the finest masonry,
an art in which the Portuguese are almost unrivalled. On the summit of the hill to the right,
touching the old walls and towers, is the convent of Santa Clara. Immediately below the Cathedral,
the rocky steep has been cut into terraces, and laid out in gardens. The river is bordered
by the old city wall. A noble street, the Rua Nova de St. Joao, is seen opening upon the quay
on the left. Part of the bridge of boats appears on the right: it was first constructed in
the year 1806, destroyed in 1809, but re-established in 1815. It was the scene of dreadful
slaughter at the time the city was given up to pillage by the French. Some of the boats forming
it had been destroyed, and many of the wretched inhabitants crowding to the bridge, in hopes
of escaping from the enemy's sword were urged on by the affrighted multitude into the rapid
stream, and thus perished. On the river, to the right and left, is seen a Portuguese coasting
vessel, called Hyate; in the centre is a wine-boat of the Douro, with a raised platform for
the steersman. The foreground of the view is the shore of Villa Nova, adjoining the quay. The
chief article of export is wine;[5] and here is the grand depôt for this commodity, which is
stowed in long, low buildings, called lodges.

    [4] Here is the altar of wrought silver, which was fortunately
    rescued from the hands of the French, when in possession of
    Oporto.

    [5] The annual average quantity of wine exported from Oporto to
    Great Britain, was in the ten years, 1813-1822, 24,364 pipes,
    and to all other parts of the world only 1,094 pipes per annum.
    The quantity since 1822 has not materially altered.--See a
    Communication to vol. xv. of the Mirror, p. 118.

"On the quays," says Mr. Kinsey, "are seen fine blocks of granite, already converted into form,
having their edges cased with wood, ready to be shipped off for buildings in Brazil, where
it appears that no good stone, or, at least, so durable as this, can be procured;--pipe-staves
from Memel,--flax and iron,--and occasionally coals from the north of England. There are generally
at anchor in the river between Villa Nova and Oporto, Russian, Brazilian, English, American,
Dutch, Danish, and some French vessels; but many of the latter nation are not to be found in
the Portuguese ports. Two thirds of the shipping to be seen in the Douro, are British, Brazilian,
or Portuguese."

The gardens of the city are luxuriantly stored. Brazilian plants, easily distinguished by their
gaudy colours, vines on trellis, superb lemon-trees, lime and orange-trees, pear, apple, and
plum-trees, and Alpine strawberries are in abundance. The Indian cane, with its splendid blossom,
whose colour resembles that of the Guernsey, or rather the Chinese lily, is a gay addition
to the ornaments of this earthly paradise. Mr. Kinsey says "The ulmis adjungere vitem is well
known in poetical description, but in Portugal, besides overshadowing their artificial supporters,
the vines are seen attaching themselves to, or hanging down in luxuriant festoons from forest-trees,
such as the oak, chestnut, and cork, in all the wildness of nature, and not unfrequently insinuating
themselves among the branches of myrtle-trees, which attain a considerable size in the hedge-rows,
and contrasting their large, purple bunches with the snow-white blossom. The union is truly
poetical, and its novelty is charming to the eye of a northern traveller. A vine is often purposely
planted by the farmer under an oak-tree, whose boughs it soon over-runs, repaying the little
labour expended in its cultivation by its fruit, and the lop of its branches. Ten pipes of
green wine, vinho verde, expressed from these grapes, will yield one pipe of excellent brandy.
Being light and sharp, the vinho verde is preferred by the generality of Portuguese in the
summer, to wines of superior strength and quality."

The population of Oporto and Villa Nova was stated by Colonel Batty in 1830, to amount to about
80,000 inhabitants.

       *       *       *       *       *

POETS, MINOR AND MAJOR.

Perhaps no branch of literary reputation is so difficult to establish as that of first-rate
poetic excellence. During the last fifty years, many meritorious competitors for bardic renown
have successively aspired to public favour, and have each in their turns exhibited their fancy-woven
bouquets, as containing a more beautiful assemblage of "flowers of all hue," as Milton divinely
sings, than those which their equally emulative and praiseworthy compeers have, in their best
attempts, laid out upon the parterre of the public. In the poetic foreground of the above period,
are to be seen the names of Pye, Ogilvie, Whitehead, Tasker, Mason, Cowper, Merry, Jerningham,
Woty, Hurdis, Pratt, Fitzgerald, &c. over whose metrical effusions, with the exception of the
fifth and sixth, the clouds of obscurity have long since cast a darkening hue. Even the "Elegaic
Sonnets" of Charlotte Smith, which first appeared in 1784, and formed a sort of poetical era
in point of popularity, have long since "fallen into the sere and yellow leaf," as it was discriminately
hinted by Burns would be the case with his soul-breathing Letters; the Sonnets by the Rev.
W.L. Bowles, although emanating from a beautiful fountain-spring of thought and feeling, which
should have screened their writer from the venomous shaft of Byron, have already sunk beneath
the meridian of their popularity; and the loaded ornamental rhymes of Darwin; the prettily
embroidered couplets of Miss Seward, together with the Della Cruscan Rhymes of Mary Robinson,
Mrs. Cowley, &c. are left like daisies, plucked from the greensward, to perish beneath unfeeling
neglect. Who now reads the verses of Ann Yearsley, the poetic milkwoman, who was so lauded
beyond her deserts, by Mrs. H. More?--few or none. Why is this revolution in public taste?
Because those master-spirits which guide the present age, have given birth to a species of
poetry more legitimate and useful in its design, and more valuable in its tendencies and characteristics.
Instead of the "namby pamby" verses of the period I have alluded to, and the coarse scurrility
of style which runs with a discolouring vein through the satirical pages of Dr. Wolcot, we
have now the heart-stirring metres of a Campbell, as in that beautiful rainbow of poetic loveliness
and imagination, his "Pleasures of Hope." We have now a series of pictures bearing an impress
as pleasant as the gleams of warm autumn in the "Pleasures of Memory," by Rogers; the wildness
of Loutherbourgh, the grandeur of Salvator Rosa, the terror-striking forms of Fuseli, embodied
with increased energy in the immortal Lays of Byron: the every-day incidents of life, copied
with the graphic fidelity of a Sharp, and bearing the faithful stamp of cottage grouping, which
distinguished the pencil of a Morland,--in the natural paintings of Crabbe. We have Catullus
stealing from his couch, to breathe a new intonation into the harp of Moore; and last of all,
we have the votaress of virtue and moral feeling, the Cambrian minstrel, Mrs. Hemans, making
melancholy appear as delightful as love.

The Author of a Tradesman's Lays.

       *       *       *       *       *

STANZAS FOR MUSIC.

  Though the waves of old Time are darkly advancing,
  There still is one spot where the sunbeams are glancing,
  There glow the gay visions of youth's sunny morn,
  Safe from the ocean-wave, safe from the storm:
  For Memory keeps the spot fresh and green ever,
  The dark tides of Time, shall sweep over it never!

  For beautiful Hope, wanders oft to the Isle,
  With her wreath of bright flowers, and radiant smile.
  She stands with her finger upraised to the sky,
  And she dries the sad tear-drop in Memory's eye:
  An emerald green, be that Island for ever,
  May the dark tides of Time, sweep over it never!

  Kirton, Lindsey.         ANNE R.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTE GALLERY

       *       *       *       *       *

CARDING A TITHE PROCTOR.

In Ireland, carding the tithe proctors was occasionally resorted to by the White Boys, and
was performed in the following manner:---

The tithe proctor was generally waked out of his first sleep by his door being smashed in;
and the boys in white shirts desired him "never to fear," as they only intended to card him
this bout for taking a quarter instead of a tenth from every poor man in the parish. They then
turned him on his face upon the bed; and taking a lively ram cat out of a bag which they brought
with them, they set the cat between the proctor's shoulders. The beast, being nearly as much
terrified as the proctor, would endeavour to get off; but being held fast by the tail, he intrenched
every claw deep in the proctor's back, in order to keep up a firm resistance to the White Boys.
The more the tail was pulled back, the more the ram cat tried to go forward; at length, when
he had, as he conceived, made his possession quite secure, main force convinced him to the
contrary, and that if he kept his hold he must lose his tail. So, he was dragged backward to
the proctor's loins, grappling at every pull, and bringing away here and there strips of the
proctor's skin, to prove the pertinacity of his defence.

When the ram cat had got down to the loins he was once more placed at the shoulders, and again
carded the proctor (toties quoties) according to his sentence.

       *       *       *       *       *

WALKING GALLOWS.

(From Sir Jonah Barrington's Sketches.)

Among the extraordinary characters that turned up in the fatal "ninety-eight," there were few
more extraordinary than Lieutenant H----, then denominated the "walking gallows;"--and such
he certainly was, literally and practically.

Lieutenant H---- was an officer of the line on half pay. His brother was one of the solicitors
to the Crown--a quiet, tremulous, vino deditus sort of man, and a leading Orangeman;--his widow
who afterwards married and survived a learned doctor, was a clever, positive, good-looking
Englishwoman, and, I think, fixed the doctor's avowed creed: as to his genuine faith, that
was of little consequence.

Lieutenant H---- was about six feet two inches high;--strong, and broad in proportion. His
strength was great, but of the dead kind unaccompanied by activity. He could lift a ton, but
could not leap a rivulet; he looked mild, and his address was civil--neither assuming nor at
all ferocious. I knew him well, and from his countenance should never have suspected him of
cruelty; but so cold-blooded and so eccentric an executioner of the human race I believe never
yet existed, save among the American Indians.[6]

    [6] His mode of execution being perfectly novel, and at the same
    time ingenious, Curran said, "The lieutenant should have got a
    patent for cheap strangulation."

His inducement to the strange barbarity he practised I can scarcely conceive; unless it proceeded
from that natural taint of cruelty which so often distinguishes man above all other animals
when his power becomes uncontrolled. The propensity was probably strengthened in him from the
indemnities of martial law, and by those visions of promotion whereby violent partizans are
perpetually urged, and so frequently disappointed.

At the period alluded to, law being suspended, and the courts of justice closed, the "question"
by torture was revived and largely practised. The commercial exchange of Dublin formed a place
of execution; even suspected rebels were every day immolated as if convicted on the clearest
evidence; and Lieutenant H----'s pastime of hanging on his own back persons whose physiognomies
he thought characteristic of rebellion was (I am ashamed to say) the subject of jocularity
instead of punishment. What in other times he would himself have died for, as a murderer, was
laughed at as the manifestation of loyalty: never yet was martial law so abused, or its enormities
so hushed up as in Ireland. Being a military officer, the lieutenant conceived he had a right
to do just what he thought proper, and to make the most of his time while martial law was flourishing.

Once, when high in blood, he happened to meet a suspicious-looking peasant from County Kildare,
who could not satisfactorily account for himself according to the lieutenant's notion of evidence;
and having nobody at hand to vouch for him, the lieutenant of course immediately took for granted
that he must be a rebel strolling about, and imagining the death of his Most Gracious Majesty.[7]
He therefore, no other court of justice being at hand, considered that he had a right to try
the man by his own opinion; accordingly, after a brief interrogation, he condemned him to die,
and without further ceremony proceeded to put his own sentence into immediate execution.

    [7] The lieutenant's brother being a Crown solicitor, had now
    and then got the lieutenant to copy the high treason
    indictments: and he, seeing there that imagining the death of
    a king was punished capitally, very naturally conceived that
    wishing it was twice as bad as supposing it: having
    therefore no doubt that all rebels wished it, he consequently
    decided in the tribunal of his own mind to hang every man who
    hypothetically and traitorously wished his majesty's
    dissolution, which wish he also conceived was very easily
    ascertained by the wisher's countenance.

    A cabinet-maker, at Charing Cross, some years ago, put on his
    board "patent coffin-maker to his majesty:" it was considered
    that though this was not an ill-intentioned, yet it was a very
    improper mode of imagining the king's death, and the board was
    taken down accordingly. Lieutenant H. would surely have hanged
    him in Ireland.

However, to do the lieutenant justice, his mode was not near so tedious or painful as that
practised by the grand signior, who sometimes causes the ceremony to be divided into three
acts, giving the culprit a drink of spring water to refresh him between the two first; nor
was it so severe as the burning old women formerly for witchcraft. In fact, the "walking gallows"
was both on a new and simple plan; and after some kicking and plunging during the operation,
never failed to be completely effectual. The lieutenant being, as before mentioned, of lofty
stature, with broad and strong shoulders, saw no reason why they might not answer his majesty's
service, upon a pinch, as well as two posts and a crossbar (the more legitimate instrument
upon such occasions): and he also considered that, when a rope was not at hand, there was no
good reason why his own silk cravat (being softer than an ordinary halter, and of course less
calculated to hurt a man) should not be a more merciful choke-band than that employed by any
Jack Ketch in the three kingdoms.

In pursuance of these benevolent intentions, the lieutenant, as a preliminary step, first knocked
down the suspected rebel from County Kildare, which the weight of mettle in his fist rendered
no difficult achievement. His garters then did duty as handcuffs: and with the aid of a brawny
aide-de-camp (one such always attended him), he pinioned his victim hand and foot, and then
most considerately advised him to pray for King George, observing that any prayers for his
own d--d popish soul would be only time lost, as his fate in every world (should there be even
a thousand) was decided to all eternity for having imagined the death of so good a monarch.

During this exhortation, the lieutenant twisted up his long cravat so as to make a firm, handsome
rope, and then expertly sliding it over the rebel's neck, secured it there by a double knot,
drew the cravat over his own shoulders, and the aide-de-camp holding up the rebel's heels,
till he felt him pretty easy, the lieutenant with a powerful chuck drew up the poor devil's
head as high as his own (cheek by jowl), and began to trot about with his burden like a jolting
cart-horse,--the rebel choking and gulping meanwhile, until he had no further solicitude about
sublunary affairs--when the lieutenant, giving him a parting chuck, just to make sure that
his neck was broken, threw down his load--the personal assets about which the aide-de-camp
made a present of to himself.

Now all this proceeding was very painstaking and ingenious: and yet the ungrateful government
(as Secretary Cook assured me) would have been better pleased had the execution taken place
on timber and with hemp, according to old formalities.

To be serious:--this story is scarcely credible--yet it is a notorious fact; and the lieutenant,
a few nights afterwards, acquired the sobriquet which forms a head to this sketch and with
which he was invested by the upper gallery of Crow Street Theatre--nor did he ever get rid
of it to his dying-day.

The above trotting execution (which was humorously related to me by an eye-witness) took place
in the barrack-yard at Kerry House, Stephen's Green. The hangee was, I believe, (as it happened)
in reality a rebel.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAWS RELATING TO BACHELORS.

Many laws have been made against bachelors by various nations, who all concurred in considering
the bachelor as an enemy to his country and to mankind. The chief of these laws were those
made by the Romans, and consisted of fining the bachelor, and various other penalties: the
most celebrated one was that of Augustus, which was entitled the "Lex julia de maritandis ordinibus"
by which the bachelor was made incapable of receiving legacies, or of holding inheritances
given by a will, unless they were bequeathed to him by a near relation. Plutarch observes that
this brought many to marry, not for the mere sake of raising heirs to their estates, but to
make themselves capable of receiving legacies, and for the purpose of inheriting such estates
as might be left them by a friend.

The Jewish nation also had their laws to the disfavour of the bachelor. The rabbis affirm,
that according to the Laws of Moses, every one who has attained the age of twenty-one years
is bound in conscience to marry; and this makes one of their 613 precepts. We should suppose
that if this law ever had existence, it has been handed down by tradition, as we cannot find
any trace of it in the "Books of Moses." Their "wise men" have many sayings in favour of marriage
and against bachelors, one of which is "He who does not take necessary means to leave heirs
behind him, is not a man, and ought to be reputed as a homicide." The Law of Lycurgus was not
a shade more favourable to them: by his statutes, bachelors were branded with infamy and disgrace;
they were also excluded from participating in the cares of government, from all offices either
civil or martial, and were not permitted to view either public shows or sports. At certain
of their feasts, they were forced to appear in the marketplace, and there were exposed to the
cutting sarcasm, jest, and derision of the populace. At one feast, in particular, they were
led to the altars by women, amidst a concord of harmonious sounds, and there were obliged to
submit to blows and lashes with a rod, at the merciful pleasure of a merciful people. And "Oh,
most unkindly act of all," they had also to sing certain songs composed to their own dishonour,
contempt, and derision.

By many, the Christian dispensation is supposed to be, in a great degree, favourable to a state
of bachelorism, because the Apostle, Paul, has recommended it as preferable; but we think the
recommendation was given for the following reason: (i.e.) every one in the early ages of Christianity
was exposed to liability of testing his religious principles, by the loss of both his property
and life; and consequently, the loss must have been felt in a greater degree, if the sufferer
was married. Thus persecution must have been more dreadful to the married than to the unmarried.
The ancient church, misconstruing the Apostle's words, and also overlooking his meaning, recommended
the state of bachelorism in the male, and perpetual virginity in the female sex, not only as
a state more perfect than marriage, but even as highly meritorious. Thus, by degrees, came
into being the absurd and fast decaying system of monastic establishments, which, for many
centuries burdened Europe with drones innumerable.

In England, bachelors are not left to go forgotten to their solitary graves. There was a tax
laid on them by the 7th William III., after the twenty-fifth year of their age, which was £12.
10s. for a duke, and 1s. for a commoner. At present they are taxed by an extra duty upon their
servants: for a male, £1. 5s.; for a female, 2s. 6d., above the usual duties leviable upon
servants.     E.J.H.

*** So, Touchstone's philosophy hath legal warrant: "Is the single man blessed? (Ed. M.)

       *       *       *       *       *

SAXON ALMANACS.

The Saxons were accustomed to engrave upon square pieces of wood, the courses of the moons
for the whole year, (or for a specified space of time) by which they could tell when the new-moons,
full-moons, and changes would occur, and these pieces of wood were by them called Al-mon-aght
(i.e.) Al-moon-heed, which signifies the regard and observation of all the moons, and from
this term is derived the word Almanac.

Many of our readers are probably aware of, or have seen, a Saxon Almanac, answering the above
description, in St. John's College, Cambridge.     E.J.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY

       *       *       *       *       *

EXEMPLARS ABRIDGED FROM MR. BABBAGE'S "ECONOMY OF MACHINERY AND MANUFACTURES."

Voyage of Manufacture.--The produce of our factories has preceded even our most enterprising
travellers.

Additions to human power.--The force necessary to move a stone along the roughly-chiselled
floor of its quarry is nearly two-thirds of its weight; to move it along a wooden floor, three-fifths;
by wood upon wood, five-ninths; if the wooden surfaces are soaped, one-sixth; if rollers are
used on the floor of the quarry, it requires one-thirty-second part of the weight; if they
roll on wood, one-fortieth; and if they roll between wood, one-fiftieth of its weight. At each
increase of knowledge, as well as on the contrivance of every new tool, human labour becomes
abridged.

Economy of time.--Several pounds of gunpowder may be purchased for a sum acquired by a few
days' labour; yet, when this is employed in blasting rocks, effects are produced which could
not, even with the best tools, be accomplished by other means in less than many months. 3d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NINE-BANDED ARMADILLO.

Armadillos are almost exclusively natives of South America, principally of the province of
Paraguay. Some inhabit the forests; others are found in the open country. There are several
species, all of which are invested with a coat of mail, or a kind of plate armour resembling
the covering of the pangolin, or scaly ant-eater, and the shell of the tortoise. This crust
or shell covers the upper parts of the animal, and consists of four or five different parts
or divisions. The head may be said to have a helmet, and the shoulders a buckler, composed
of several transverse series of plates. Transverse bands, varying in the different species
from three to twelve, which are movable, cover the body; the crupper has its buckler similar
to that on the shoulders, and the tail is protected by numerous rings. The hairs of the body
are few, springing from between the plates; the under parts, which are without armour, have
rather more hairs. In a living state, the whole armour is capable of yielding considerably
to the motions of the body; the pieces or plates being connected by a membrane, like the joints
in a tail of a lobster. The under parts present a light grainy skin. The legs are thick and
strong, but only long enough to raise the body from the ground; the nails are very powerful,
and calculated for digging; and, according to Buffon, the mole is not more expert in burrowing
the earth.

