"Are we far from the dwelling of this smith, my pretty lad?" said Tressilian to his young guide.

"How is it you call me?" said the boy, looking askew at him with his sharp, grey eyes.

"I call you my pretty lad--is there any offence in that, my boy?"

"No; but were you with my grandam and Dominie Holiday, you might sing chorus to the old song of

     'We three
     Tom-fools be.'"

"And why so, my little man?" said Tressilian.

"Because," answered the ugly urchin, "you are the only three ever called me pretty lad. Now
my grandam does it because she is parcel blind by age, and whole blind by kindred; and my master,
the poor Dominie, does it to curry favour, and have the fullest platter of furmity and the
warmest seat by the fire. But what you call me pretty lad for, you know best yourself."

"Thou art a sharp wag at least, if not a pretty one. But what do thy playfellows call thee?"

"Hobgoblin," answered the boy readily; "but for all that, I would rather have my own ugly viznomy
than any of their jolter-heads, that have no more brains in them than a brick-bat."

"Then you fear not this smith whom you are going to see?"

"Me fear him!" answered the boy. "If he were the devil folk think him, I would not fear him;
but though there is something queer about him, he's no more a devil than you are, and that's
what I would not tell to every one."

"And why do you tell it to me, then, my boy?" said Tressilian.

"Because you are another guess gentleman than those we see here every day," replied Dickie;
"and though I am as ugly as sin, I would not have you think me an ass, especially as I may
have a boon to ask of you one day."

"And what is that, my lad, whom I must not call pretty?" replied Tressilian.

"Oh, if I were to ask it just now," said the boy, "you would deny it me; but I will wait till
we meet at court."

"At court, Richard! are you bound for court?" said Tressilian.

"Ay, ay, that's just like the rest of them," replied the boy. "I warrant me, you think, what
should such an ill-favoured, scrambling urchin do at court? But let Richard Sludge alone; I
have not been cock of the roost here for nothing. I will make sharp wit mend foul feature."

"But what will your grandam say, and your tutor, Dominie Holiday?"

"E'en what they like," replied Dickie; "the one has her chickens to reckon, and the other has
his boys to whip. I would have given them the candle to hold long since, and shown this trumpery
hamlet a fair pair of heels, but that Dominie promises I should go with him to bear share in
the next pageant he is to set forth, and they say there are to be great revels shortly."

"And whereabouts are they to be held, my little friend?" said Tressilian.

"Oh, at some castle far in the north," answered his guide--"a world's breadth from Berkshire.
But our old Dominie holds that they cannot go forward without him; and it may be he is right,
for he has put in order many a fair pageant. He is not half the fool you would take him for,
when he gets to work he understands; and so he can spout verses like a play-actor, when, God
wot, if you set him to steal a goose's egg, he would be drubbed by the gander."

"And you are to play a part in his next show?" said Tressilian, somewhat interested by the
boy's boldness of conversation and shrewd estimate of character.

"In faith," said Richard Sludge, in answer, "he hath so promised me; and if he break his word,
it will be the worse for him, for let me take the bit between my teeth, and turn my head downhill,
and I will shake him off with a fall that may harm his bones. And I should not like much to
hurt him neither," said he, "for the tiresome old fool has painfully laboured to teach me all
he could. But enough of that--here are we at Wayland Smith's forge-door."

"You jest, my little friend," said Tressilian; "here is nothing but a bare moor, and that ring
of stones, with a great one in the midst, like a Cornish barrow."

"Ay, and that great flat stone in the midst, which lies across the top of these uprights,"
said the boy, "is Wayland Smith's counter, that you must tell down your money upon."

"What do you mean by such folly?" said the traveller, beginning to be angry with the boy, and
vexed with himself for having trusted such a hare-brained guide.

"Why," said Dickie, with a grin, "you must tie your horse to that upright stone that has the
ring in't, and then you must whistle three times, and lay me down your silver groat on that
other flat stone, walk out of the circle, sit down on the west side of that little thicket
of bushes, and take heed you look neither to right nor to left for ten minutes, or so long
as you shall hear the hammer clink, and whenever it ceases, say your prayers for the space
you could tell a hundred--or count over a hundred, which will do as well--and then come into
the circle; you will find your money gone and your horse shod."

"My money gone to a certainty!" said Tressilian; "but as for the rest--Hark ye, my lad, I am
not your school-master, but if you play off your waggery on me, I will take a part of his task
off his hands, and punish you to purpose."

"Ay, when you catch me!" said the boy; and presently took to his heels across the heath, with
a velocity which baffled every attempt of Tressilian to overtake him, loaded as he was with
his heavy boots. Nor was it the least provoking part of the urchin's conduct, that he did not
exert his utmost speed, like one who finds himself in danger, or who is frightened, but preserved
just such a rate as to encourage Tressilian to continue the chase, and then darted away from
him with the swiftness of the wind, when his pursuer supposed he had nearly run him down, doubling
at the same time, and winding, so as always to keep near the place from which he started.

This lasted until Tressilian, from very weariness, stood still, and was about to abandon the
pursuit with a hearty curse on the ill-favoured urchin, who had engaged him in an exercise
so ridiculous. But the boy, who had, as formerly, planted himself on the top of a hillock close
in front, began to clap his long, thin hands, point with his skinny fingers, and twist his
wild and ugly features into such an extravagant expression of laughter and derision, that Tressilian
began half to doubt whether he had not in view an actual hobgoblin.

Provoked extremely, yet at the same time feeling an irresistible desire to laugh, so very odd
were the boy's grimaces and gesticulations, the Cornishman returned to his horse, and mounted
him with the purpose of pursuing Dickie at more advantage.

The boy no sooner saw him mount his horse, than he holloed out to him that, rather than he
should spoil his white-footed nag, he would come to him, on condition he would keep his fingers
to himself.

"I will make no conditions with thee, thou ugly varlet!" said Tressilian; "I will have thee
at my mercy in a moment."

"Aha, Master Traveller," said the boy, "there is a marsh hard by would swallow all the horses
of the Queen's guard. I will into it, and see where you will go then. You shall hear the bittern
bump, and the wild-drake quack, ere you get hold of me without my consent, I promise you."

Tressilian looked out, and, from the appearance of the ground behind the hillock, believed
it might be as the boy said, and accordingly determined to strike up a peace with so light-footed
and ready-witted an enemy. "Come down," he said, "thou mischievous brat! Leave thy mopping
and mowing, and, come hither. I will do thee no harm, as I am a gentleman."

The boy answered his invitation with the utmost confidence, and danced down from his stance
with a galliard sort of step, keeping his eye at the same time fixed on Tressilian's, who,
once more dismounted, stood with his horse's bridle in his hand, breathless, and half exhausted
with his fruitless exercise, though not one drop of moisture appeared on the freckled forehead
of the urchin, which looked like a piece of dry and discoloured parchment, drawn tight across
the brow of a fleshless skull.

"And tell me," said Tressilian, "why you use me thus, thou mischievous imp? or what your meaning
is by telling me so absurd a legend as you wished but now to put on me? Or rather show me,
in good earnest, this smith's forge, and I will give thee what will buy thee apples through
the whole winter."

"Were you to give me an orchard of apples," said Dickie Sludge, "I can guide thee no better
than I have done. Lay down the silver token on the flat stone--whistle three times--then come
sit down on the western side of the thicket of gorse. I will sit by you, and give you free
leave to wring my head off, unless you hear the smith at work within two minutes after we are
seated."

"I may be tempted to take thee at thy word," said Tressilian, "if you make me do aught half
so ridiculous for your own mischievous sport; however, I will prove your spell. Here, then,
I tie my horse to this upright stone. I must lay my silver groat here, and whistle three times,
sayest thou?"

"Ay, but thou must whistle louder than an unfledged ousel," said the boy, as Tressilian, having
laid down his money, and half ashamed of the folly he practised, made a careless whistle--"you
must whistle louder than that, for who knows where the smith is that you call for? He may be
in the King of France's stables for what I know."

"Why, you said but now he was no devil," replied Tressilian.

"Man or devil," said Dickie, "I see that I must summon him for you;" and therewithal he whistled
sharp and shrill, with an acuteness of sound that almost thrilled through Tressilian's brain.
"That is what I call whistling," said he, after he had repeated the signal thrice; "and now
to cover, to cover, or Whitefoot will not be shod this day."

Tressilian, musing what the upshot of this mummery was to be, yet satisfied there was to be
some serious result, by the confidence with which the boy had put himself in his power, suffered
himself to be conducted to that side of the little thicket of gorse and brushwood which was
farthest from the circle of stones, and there sat down; and as it occurred to him that, after
all, this might be a trick for stealing his horse, he kept his hand on the boy's collar, determined
to make him hostage for its safety.

"Now, hush and listen," said Dickie, in a low whisper; "you will soon hear the tack of a hammer
that was never forged of earthly iron, for the stone it was made of was shot from the moon."
And in effect Tressilian did immediately hear the light stroke of a hammer, as when a farrier
is at work. The singularity of such a sound, in so very lonely a place, made him involuntarily
start; but looking at the boy, and discovering, by the arch malicious expression of his countenance,
that the urchin saw and enjoyed his slight tremor, he became convinced that the whole was a
concerted stratagem, and determined to know by whom, or for what purpose, the trick was played off.

Accordingly, he remained perfectly quiet all the time that the hammer continued to sound, being
about the space usually employed in fixing a horse-shoe. But the instant the sound ceased,
Tressilian, instead of interposing the space of time which his guide had required, started
up with his sword in his hand, ran round the thicket, and confronted a man in a farrier's leathern
apron, but otherwise fantastically attired in a bear-skin dressed with the fur on, and a cap
of the same, which almost hid the sooty and begrimed features of the wearer. "Come back, come
back!" cried the boy to Tressilian, "or you will be torn to pieces; no man lives that looks
on him." In fact, the invisible smith (now fully visible) heaved up his hammer, and showed
symptoms of doing battle.

But when the boy observed that neither his own entreaties nor the menaces of the farrier appeared
to change Tressilian's purpose, but that, on the contrary, he confronted the hammer with his
drawn sword, he exclaimed to the smith in turn, "Wayland, touch him not, or you will come by
the worse!--the gentleman is a true gentleman, and a bold."

"So thou hast betrayed me, Flibbertigibbet?" said the smith; "it shall be the worse for thee!"

"Be who thou wilt," said Tressilian, "thou art in no danger from me, so thou tell me the meaning
of this practice, and why thou drivest thy trade in this mysterious fashion."

The smith, however, turning to Tressilian, exclaimed, in a threatening tone, "Who questions
the Keeper of the Crystal Castle of Light, the Lord of the Green Lion, the Rider of the Red
Dragon? Hence!--avoid thee, ere I summon Talpack with his fiery lance, to quell, crush, and
consume!" These words he uttered with violent gesticulation, mouthing, and flourishing his hammer.

"Peace, thou vile cozener, with thy gipsy cant!" replied Tressilian scornfully, "and follow
me to the next magistrate, or I will cut thee over the pate."

"Peace, I pray thee, good Wayland!" said the boy. "Credit me, the swaggering vein will not
pass here; you must cut boon whids." ["Give good words."--SLANG DIALECT.]

"I think, worshipful sir," said the smith, sinking his hammer, and assuming a more gentle and
submissive tone of voice, "that when so poor a man does his day's job, he might be permitted
to work it out after his own fashion. Your horse is shod, and your farrier paid--what need
you cumber yourself further than to mount and pursue your journey?"

"Nay, friend, you are mistaken," replied Tressilian; "every man has a right to take the mask
from the face of a cheat and a juggler; and your mode of living raises suspicion that you are
both."

"If you are so determined; sir," said the smith, "I cannot help myself save by force, which
I were unwilling to use towards you, Master Tressilian; not that I fear your weapon, but because
I know you to be a worthy, kind, and well-accomplished gentleman, who would rather help than
harm a poor man that is in a strait."

"Well said, Wayland," said the boy, who had anxiously awaited the issue of their conference.
"But let us to thy den, man, for it is ill for thy health to stand here talking in the open air."

"Thou art right, Hobgoblin," replied the smith; and going to the little thicket of gorse on
the side nearest to the circle, and opposite to that at which his customer had so lately crouched,
he discovered a trap-door curiously covered with bushes, raised it, and, descending into the
earth, vanished from their eyes. Notwithstanding Tressilian's curiosity, he had some hesitation
at following the fellow into what might be a den of robbers, especially when he heard the smith's
voice, issuing from the bowels of the earth, call out, "Flibertigibbet, do you come last, and
be sure to fasten the trap!"

"Have you seen enough of Wayland Smith now?" whispered the urchin to Tressilian, with an arch
sneer, as if marking his companion's uncertainty.

"Not yet," said Tressilian firmly; and shaking off his momentary irresolution, he descended
into the narrow staircase, to which the entrance led, and was followed by Dickie Sludge, who
made fast the trap-door behind him, and thus excluded every glimmer of daylight. The descent,
however, was only a few steps, and led to a level passage of a few yards' length, at the end
of which appeared the reflection of a lurid and red light. Arrived at this point, with his
drawn sword in his hand, Tressilian found that a turn to the left admitted him and Hobgoblin,
who followed closely, into a small, square vault, containing a smith's forge, glowing with
charcoal, the vapour of which filled the apartment with an oppressive smell, which would have
been altogether suffocating, but that by some concealed vent the smithy communicated with the
upper air. The light afforded by the red fuel, and by a lamp suspended in an iron chain, served
to show that, besides an anvil, bellows, tongs, hammers, a quantity of ready-made horse-shoes,
and other articles proper to the profession of a farrier, there were also stoves, alembics,
crucibles, retorts, and other instruments of alchemy. The grotesque figure of the smith, and
the ugly but whimsical features of the boy, seen by the gloomy and imperfect light of the charcoal
fire and the dying lamp, accorded very well with all this mystical apparatus, and in that age
of superstition would have made some impression on the courage of most men.

But nature had endowed Tressilian with firm nerves, and his education, originally good, had
been too sedulously improved by subsequent study to give way to any imaginary terrors; and
after giving a glance around him, he again demanded of the artist who he was, and by what accident
he came to know and address him by his name.

"Your worship cannot but remember," said the smith, "that about three years since, upon Saint
Lucy's Eve, there came a travelling juggler to a certain hall in Devonshire, and exhibited
his skill before a worshipful knight and a fair company.--I see from your worship's countenance,
dark as this place is, that my memory has not done me wrong."

"Thou hast said enough," said Tressilian, turning away, as wishing to hide from the speaker
the painful train of recollections which his discourse had unconsciously awakened.

"The juggler," said the smith, "played his part so bravely that the clowns and clown-like squires
in the company held his art to be little less than magical; but there was one maiden of fifteen,
or thereby, with the fairest face I ever looked upon, whose rosy cheek grew pale, and her bright
eyes dim, at the sight of the wonders exhibited."

"Peace, I command thee, peace!" said Tressilian.

"I mean your worship no offence," said the fellow; "but I have cause to remember how, to relieve
the young maiden's fears, you condescended to point out the mode in which these deceptions
were practised, and to baffle the poor juggler by laying bare the mysteries of his art, as
ably as if you had been a brother of his order.--She was indeed so fair a maiden that, to win
a smile of her, a man might well--"

"Not a word more of her, I charge thee!" said Tressilian. "I do well remember the night you
speak of--one of the few happy evenings my life has known."

"She is gone, then," said the smith, interpreting after his own fashion the sigh with which
Tressilian uttered these words--"she is gone, young, beautiful, and beloved as she was!--I
crave your worship's pardon--I should have hammered on another theme. I see I have unwarily
driven the nail to the quick."

This speech was made with a mixture of rude feeling which inclined Tressilian favourably to
the poor artisan, of whom before he was inclined to judge very harshly. But nothing can so
soon attract the unfortunate as real or seeming sympathy with their sorrows.

"I think," proceeded Tressilian, after a minute's silence, "thou wert in those days a jovial
fellow, who could keep a company merry by song, and tale, and rebeck, as well as by thy juggling
tricks--why do I find thee a laborious handicraftsman, plying thy trade in so melancholy a
dwelling and under such extraordinary circumstances?"

"My story is not long," said the artist, "but your honour had better sit while you listen to
it." So saying, he approached to the fire a three-footed stool, and took another himself; while
Dickie Sludge, or Flibbertigibbet, as he called the boy, drew a cricket to the smith's feet,
and looked up in his face with features which, as illuminated by the glow of the forge, seemed
convulsed with intense curiosity. "Thou too," said the smith to him, "shalt learn, as thou
well deservest at my hand, the brief history of my life; and, in troth, it were as well tell
it thee as leave thee to ferret it out, since Nature never packed a shrewder wit into a more
ungainly casket.--Well, sir, if my poor story may pleasure you, it is at your command, But
will you not taste a stoup of liquor? I promise you that even in this poor cell I have some
in store."

"Speak not of it," said Tressilian, "but go on with thy story, for my leisure is brief."

"You shall have no cause to rue the delay," said the smith, "for your horse shall be better
fed in the meantime than he hath been this morning, and made fitter for travel."

With that the artist left the vault, and returned after a few minutes' interval. Here, also,
we pause, that the narrative may commence in another chapter.

CHAPTER XI.

     I say, my lord, can such a subtilty
     (But all his craft ye must not wot of me,
     And somewhat help I yet to his working),
     That all the ground on which we ben riding,
     Till that we come to Canterbury town,
     He can all clean turnen so up so down,
     And pave it all of silver and of gold.
     --THE CANON'S YEOMAN'S PROLOGUE, CANTERBURY TALES.

THE artist commenced his narrative in the following terms:--

"I was bred a blacksmith, and knew my art as well as e'er a black-thumbed, leathern-aproned,
swart-faced knave of that noble mystery. But I tired of ringing hammer-tunes on iron stithies,
and went out into the world, where I became acquainted with a celebrated juggler, whose fingers
had become rather too stiff for legerdemain, and who wished to have the aid of an apprentice
in his noble mystery. I served him for six years, until I was master of my trade--I refer myself
to your worship, whose judgment cannot be disputed, whether I did not learn to ply the craft
indifferently well?"

"Excellently," said Tressilian; "but be brief."

"It was not long after I had performed at Sir Hugh Robsart's, in your worship's presence,"
said the artist, "that I took myself to the stage, and have swaggered with the bravest of them
all, both at the Black Bull, the Globe, the Fortune, and elsewhere; but I know not how--apples
were so plenty that year that the lads in the twopenny gallery never took more than one bite
out of them, and threw the rest of the pippin at whatever actor chanced to be on the stage.
So I tired of it--renounced my half share in the company, gave my foil to my comrade, my buskins
to the wardrobe, and showed the theatre a clean pair of heels."

"Well, friend, and what," said Tressilian, "was your next shift?"

"I became," said the smith, "half partner, half domestic to a man of much skill and little
substance, who practised the trade of a physicianer."

"In other words," said Tressilian, "you were Jack Pudding to a quacksalver."

"Something beyond that, let me hope, my good Master Tressilian," replied the artist; "and yet
to say truth, our practice was of an adventurous description, and the pharmacy which I had
acquired in my first studies for the benefit of horses was frequently applied to our human
patients. But the seeds of all maladies are the same; and if turpentine, tar, pitch, and beef-suet,
mingled with turmerick, gum-mastick, and one bead of garlick, can cure the horse that hath
been grieved with a nail, I see not but what it may benefit the man that hath been pricked
with a sword. But my master's practice, as well as his skill, went far beyond mine, and dealt
in more dangerous concerns. He was not only a bold, adventurous practitioner in physic, but
also, if your pleasure so chanced to be, an adept who read the stars, and expounded the fortunes
of mankind, genethliacally, as he called it, or otherwise. He was a learned distiller of simples,
and a profound chemist--made several efforts to fix mercury, and judged himself to have made
a fair hit at the philosopher's stone. I have yet a programme of his on that subject, which,
if your honour understandeth, I believe you have the better, not only of all who read, but
also of him who wrote it."

He gave Tressilian a scroll of parchment, bearing at top and bottom, and down the margin, the
signs of the seven planets, curiously intermingled with talismanical characters and scraps
of Greek and Hebrew. In the midst were some Latin verses from a cabalistical author, written
out so fairly, that even the gloom of the place did not prevent Tressilian from reading them.
The tenor of the original ran as follows:--

     "Si fixum solvas, faciasque volare solutum,
     Et volucrem figas, facient te vivere tutum;
     Si pariat ventum, valet auri pondere centum;
     Ventus ubi vult spirat--Capiat qui capere potest."

"I protest to you," said Tressilian, "all I understand of this jargon is that the last words
seem to mean 'Catch who catch can.'"

"That," said the smith, "is the very principle that my worthy friend and master, Doctor Doboobie,
always acted upon; until, being besotted with his own imaginations, and conceited of his high
chemical skill, he began to spend, in cheating himself, the money which he had acquired in
cheating others, and either discovered or built for himself, I could never know which, this
secret elaboratory, in which he used to seclude himself both from patients and disciples, who
doubtless thought his long and mysterious absences from his ordinary residence in the town
of Farringdon were occasioned by his progress in the mystic sciences, and his intercourse with
the invisible world. Me also he tried to deceive; but though I contradicted him not, he saw
that I knew too much of his secrets to be any longer a safe companion. Meanwhile, his name
waxed famous--or rather infamous, and many of those who resorted to him did so under persuasion
that he was a sorcerer. And yet his supposed advance in the occult sciences drew to him the
secret resort of men too powerful to be named, for purposes too dangerous to be mentioned.
Men cursed and threatened him, and bestowed on me, the innocent assistant of his studies, the
nickname of the Devil's foot-post, which procured me a volley of stones as soon as ever I ventured
to show my face in the street of the village. At length my master suddenly disappeared, pretending
to me that he was about to visit his elaboratory in this place, and forbidding me to disturb
him till two days were past. When this period had elapsed, I became anxious, and resorted to
this vault, where I found the fires extinguished and the utensils in confusion, with a note
from the learned Doboobius, as he was wont to style himself, acquainting me that we should
never meet again, bequeathing me his chemical apparatus, and the parchment which I have just
put into your hands, advising me strongly to prosecute the secret which it contained, which
would infallibly lead me to the discovery of the grand magisterium."

"And didst thou follow this sage advice?" said Tressilian.

"Worshipful sir, no," replied the smith; "for, being by nature cautious, and suspicious from
knowing with whom I had to do, I made so many perquisitions before I ventured even to light
a fire, that I at length discovered a small barrel of gunpowder, carefully hid beneath the
furnace, with the purpose, no doubt, that as soon as I should commence the grand work of the
transmutation of metals, the explosion should transmute the vault and all in it into a heap
of ruins, which might serve at once for my slaughter-house and my grave. This cured me of alchemy,
and fain would I have returned to the honest hammer and anvil; but who would bring a horse
to be shod by the Devil's post? Meantime, I had won the regard of my honest Flibbertigibbet
here, he being then at Farringdon with his master, the sage Erasmus Holiday, by teaching him
a few secrets, such as please youth at his age; and after much counsel together, we agreed
that, since I could get no practice in the ordinary way, I should try how I could work out
business among these ignorant boors, by practising upon their silly fears; and, thanks to Flibbertigibbet,
who hath spread my renown, I have not wanted custom. But it is won at too great risk, and I
fear I shall be at length taken up for a wizard; so that I seek but an opportunity to leave
this vault, when I can have the protection of some worshipful person against the fury of the
populace, in case they chance to recognize me."

"And art thou," said Tressilian, "perfectly acquainted with the roads in this country?"

"I could ride them every inch by midnight," answered Wayland Smith, which was the name this
adept had assumed.

"Thou hast no horse to ride upon," said Tressilian.

"Pardon me," replied Wayland; "I have as good a tit as ever yeoman bestrode; and I forgot to
say it was the best part of the mediciner's legacy to me, excepting one or two of the choicest
of his medical secrets, which I picked up without his knowledge and against his will."

"Get thyself washed and shaved, then," said Tressilian; "reform thy dress as well as thou canst,
and fling away these grotesque trappings; and, so thou wilt be secret and faithful, thou shalt
follow me for a short time, till thy pranks here are forgotten. Thou hast, I think, both address
and courage, and I have matter to do that may require both."

Wayland Smith eagerly embraced the proposal, and protested his devotion to his new master.
In a very few minutes he had made so great an alteration in his original appearance, by change
of dress, trimming his beard and hair, and so forth, that Tressilian could not help remarking
that he thought he would stand in little need of a protector, since none of his old acquaintance
were likely to recognize him.

"My debtors would not pay me money," said Wayland, shaking his head; "but my creditors of every
kind would be less easily blinded. And, in truth, I hold myself not safe, unless under the
protection of a gentleman of birth and character, as is your worship."

So saying, he led the way out of the cavern. He then called loudly for Hobgoblin, who, after
lingering for an instant, appeared with the horse furniture, when Wayland closed and sedulously
covered up the trap-door, observing it might again serve him at his need, besides that the
tools were worth somewhat. A whistle from the owner brought to his side a nag that fed quietly
on the common, and was accustomed to the signal.

While he accoutred him for the journey, Tressilian drew his own girths tighter, and in a few
minutes both were ready to mount.

At this moment Sludge approached to bid them farewell.

"You are going to leave me, then, my old playfellow," said the boy; "and there is an end of
all our game at bo-peep with the cowardly lubbards whom I brought hither to have their broad-footed
nags shed by the devil and his imps?"

"It is even so," said Wayland Smith, "the best friends must part, Flibbertigibbet; but thou,
my boy, art the only thing in the Vale of Whitehorse which I shall regret to leave behind me."

"Well, I bid thee not farewell," said Dickie Sludge, "for you will be at these revels, I judge,
and so shall I; for if Dominie Holiday take me not thither, by the light of day, which we see
not in yonder dark hole, I will take myself there!"

"In good time," said Wayland; "but I pray you to do nought rashly."

