The most noteworthy outcome of this system in the realm of religious practice was, as already
intimated, the growth of an elaborate and complicated method of divining the future by the
observation of the phenomena in the heavens. It is significant that in the royal collection
of cuneiform literature made by King Assur-bani-pal of Assyria (668-626 B.C.) and deposited
in his palace at Nineveh, the omen collections connected with the astral theology of Babylonia
and Assyria form the largest class. There are also indications that the extensive texts dealing
with divination through the liver of sacrificial animals, which represents a more popular origin
than divination through the observations of the heavens, based as it is on the primitive view
which regarded the liver as the seat of life and of the soul, were brought into connexion with
astral divination. Less influenced by the astral-theological system are the old incantation
texts which were gathered together into series. In these series we can trace the attempt to
gather the incantation formulae and prayers produced in different centres, and to make them
conform to the tendency to centralize the cult in the worship of Marduk and his consort in
the south, and of Assur and Ishtar in the north. Incantations originally addressed to Ea of
Eridu, as the god of the watery element, and to Nusku, as the god of fire, were transferred
to Marduk. This was done by making Ea confer on Marduk as his son the powers of the father,
and by making Nusku a messenger between Ea and Marduk. At the same time, since the invoking
of the divine powers was the essential element in the incantations, in order to make the magic
formulae as effective as possible, a large number of the old local deities are introduced to
add their power to the chief ones; and it is here that the astral system comes into play through
the introduction of names of stars, as well as through assigning attributes to the gods which
clearly reflect the conception that they have their seats in the heavens. The incantations
pass over naturally into hymns and prayers. The connexion between the two is illustrated by
the application of the term shiptu, "incantation," to the direct appeals to the gods, as well
as by the introduction, on the one hand, of genuine prayers into the incantations and by the
addition, on the other hand, of incantations to prayers and hymns, pure and simple. In another
division of the religious literature of Babylonia which is largely represented in Assur-bani-pal's
collection--the myths and legends--tales which originally symbolized the change of seasons,
or in which historical occurrences are overcast with more or less copious [v.03 p.0115] admixture
of legend and myth, were transferred to the heavens, and so it happens that creation myths,
and the accounts of wanderings and adventures of heroes of the past, are referred to movements
among the planets and stars as well as to occurrences or supposed occurrences on earth.

The ritual alone which accompanied divination practices and incantation formulae and was a
chief factor in the celebration of festival days and of days set aside for one reason or the
other to the worship of some god or goddess or group of deities, is free from traces of the
astral theology. The more or less elaborate ceremonies prescribed for the occasions when the
gods were approached are directly connected with the popular elements of the religion. Animal
sacrifice, libations, ritualistic purification, sprinkling of water, and symbolical rites of
all kinds accompanied by short prayers, represent a religious practice which in the Babylonian-Assyrian
religion, as in all religions, is older than any theology and survives the changes which the
theoretical substratum of the religion undergoes.

On the ethical side, the religion of Babylonia more particularly, and to a less extent that
of Assyria, advances to noticeable conceptions of the qualities associated with the gods and
goddesses and of the duties imposed on man. Shamash the sun-god was invested with justice as
his chief trait, Marduk is portrayed as full of mercy and kindness, Ea is the protector of
mankind who is grieved when, through a deception practised upon Adapa, humanity is deprived
of immortality. The gods, to be sure, are easily aroused to anger, and in some of them the
dire aspects predominated, but the view becomes more and more pronounced that there is some
cause always for the divine wrath. Though, in accounting for the anger of the gods, no sharp
distinction is made between moral offences and a ritualistic oversight or neglect, yet the
stress laid in the hymns and prayers, as well as in the elaborate atonement ritual prescribed
in order to appease the anger of the gods, on the need of being clean and pure in the sight
of the higher powers, the inculcation of a proper aspect of humility, and above all the need
of confessing one's guilt and sins without any reserve--all this bears testimony to the strength
which the ethical factor acquired in the domain of the religion.

This factor appears to less advantage in the unfolding of the views concerning life after death.
Throughout all periods of Babylonian-Assyrian history, the conception prevailed of a large
dark cavern below the earth, not far from the Apsu--the ocean encircling and flowing underneath
the earth--in which all the dead were gathered and where they led a miserable existence of
inactivity amid gloom and dust. Occasionally a favoured individual was permitted to escape
from this general fate and placed in a pleasant island. It would appear also that the rulers
were always singled out for divine grace, and in the earlier periods of the history, owing
to the prevailing view that the rulers stood nearer to the gods than other mortals, the kings
were deified after death, and in some instances divine honours were paid to them even during
their lifetime.

The influence exerted by the Babylonian-Assyrian religion was particularly profound on the
Semites, while the astral theology affected the ancient world in general, including the Greeks
and Romans. The impetus to the purification of the old Semite religion to which the Hebrews
for a long time clung in common with their fellows--the various branches of nomadic Arabs--was
largely furnished by the remarkable civilization unfolded in the Euphrates valley and in many
of the traditions, myths and legends embodied in the Old Testament; traces of direct borrowing
from Babylonia may be discerned, while the indirect influences in the domain of the prophetical
books, as also in the Psalms and in the so-called "Wisdom Literature," are even more noteworthy.
Even when we reach the New Testament period, we have not passed entirely beyond the sphere
of Babylonian-Assyrian influences. In such a movement as early Christian gnosticism, Babylonian
elements--modified, to be sure, and transformed--are largely present, while the growth of an
apocalyptic literature is ascribed with apparent justice by many scholars to the recrudescence
of views the ultimate source of which is to be found in the astral-theology of the Babylonian
and Assyrian priests.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.--Morris Jastrow, jun., Religion Babyloniens und Assyriens (Giessen, 1904), enlarged
and re-written form of the author's smaller Religion of Babylonia and Assyria (Boston, 1898);
A. H. Sayce, The Religion of the Ancient Babylonians (Hibbert Lectures, London, 1887), now
superseded by the same author's Religions of Ancient Egypt and Babylonia (Gifford Lectures,
Edinburgh, 1902); Friedrich Jeremias, Die Babylonier und Assyrer, in de la Saussaye's Lehrbuch
der Religionsgeschichte (3rd ed., Tübingen, 1905), vol. i.; L. W. King, Babylonian Religion
and Mythology (London, 1899); T. G. Pinches, Religion of Babylonia and Assyria (London, 1906).
Of special texts and monographs bearing on the religion may be mentioned various volumes in
the new series of cuneiform texts from Babylonian tablets, &c., in the British Museum (London,
1901- ), especially parts v., xii., xv., xvii., xviii., xx. and xxi. and vol. iv. of the earlier
series of Selections from the Miscellaneous Inscriptions of Western Asia, ed. by H. C. Rawlinson
(2nd ed., London, 1891); H. Zimmern, Beiträge zur Kenntniss der babylonischen Religion (Leipzig,
1901); J. A. Craig, Assyrian and Babylonian Religious Texts (Leipzig, 1895-1897); L. W. King,
The Seven Tablets of Creation (London, 1902); R. C. Thompson, The Reports of the Magicians
and Astrologers of Nineveh and Babylon (London, 1900); A. Boissier, Documents assyriens relatifs
aux présages (Paris, 1894-1897); and his Choix de textes relatifs à la divination assyro-babylonienne
(Geneva, 1905-1906); Ch. On the religious literature of Babylonia and Assyria, see also chapters
xv. to xxiv. in Jastrow's work (German and English edition), Carl Bezold's Ninive and Babylon
(Bielefeld, 1905), chapters vi. to xii., and the same author's monumental catalogue of the
cuneiform tablets in the Kuyunjik collection of the British Museum (5 vols., London, 1889-1899).

(M. JA.)

BABYLONIAN CAPTIVITY, the name generally given to the deportation of the Jews to Babylon by
Nebuchadrezzar. Three separate occasions are mentioned (Jer. lii. 28-30). The first was in
the time of Jehoiachin in 597 B.C., when the temple of Jerusalem was partially despoiled and
a number of the leading citizens removed. After eleven years (in the reign of Zedekiah) a fresh
rising of the Judaeans occurred; the city was razed to the ground, and a further deportation
ensued. Finally, five years later, Jeremiah (loc. cit.) records a third captivity. After the
overthrow of Babylonia by the Persians, Cyrus gave the Jews permission to return to their native
land (537 B.C.), and more then forty thousand are said to have availed themselves of the privilege.
(See JEHOIAKIM; JEHOIACHIN; ZEDEKIAH; EZRA-NEHEMIAH and JEWS: History.)

BABYLONIAN LAW. The material for the study of Babylonian law is singularly extensive without
being exhaustive. The so-called "contracts," including a great variety of deeds, conveyances,
bonds, receipts, accounts and, most important of all, the actual legal decisions given by the
judges in the law courts, exist in thousands. Historical inscriptions, royal charters and rescripts,
despatches, private letters and the general literature afford welcome supplementary information.
Even grammatical and lexicographical works, intended solely to facilitate the study of ancient
literature, contain many extracts or short sentences bearing on law and custom. The so-called
"Sumerian Family Laws" are thus preserved. The discovery of the now celebrated Code of Khammurabi
(Hammurabi)[1] (hereinafter simply termed [v.03 p.0116] "the Code") has, however, made a more
systematic study possible than could have resulted from the classification and interpretation
of the other material. Some fragments of a later code exist and have been published; but there
still remain many points upon which we have no evidence.

This material dates from the earliest times down to the commencement of our era. The evidence
upon a particular point may be very full at one period and almost entirely lacking at another.
The Code forms the backbone of the skeleton sketch which is here reconstructed. The fragments
of it which have been recovered from Assur-bani-pal's library at Nineveh and later Babylonian
copies show that it was studied, divided into chapters entitled Ninu ilu [s.]irum from its
opening words, and recopied for fifteen hundred years or more. The greater part of it remained
in force, even through the Persian, Greek and Parthian conquests, which affected private life
in Babylonia very little, and it survived to influence Syro-Roman and later Mahommedan law
in Mesopotamia. The law and custom which preceded the Code we shall call "early," that of the
New Babylonian empire (as well as the Persian, Greek, &c.) "late." The law in Assyria was derived
from Babylonia but conserved early features long after they had disappeared elsewhere.

When the Semitic tribes settled in the cities of Babylonia, their tribal custom passed over
into city law. The early history of the country is the story of a struggle for supremacy between
the cities. A metropolis demanded tribute and military support from its subject cities but
left their local cults and customs unaffected. The city rights and usages were respected by
kings and conquerors alike.

As late as the accession of Assur-bani-pal and Samas-sum-yukin we find the Babylonians appealing
to their city laws that groups of aliens to the number of twenty at a time were free to enter
the city, that foreign women once married to Babylonian husbands could not be enslaved and
that not even a dog that entered the city could be put to death untried.

The population of Babylonia was of many races from early times and intercommunication between
the cities was incessant. Every city had a large number of resident aliens. This freedom of
intercourse must have tended to assimilate custom. It was, however, reserved for the genius
of Khammurabi to make Babylon his metropolis and weld together his vast empire by a uniform
system of law.

[Sidenote: Code of Khammurabi.]

Almost all trace of tribal custom has already disappeared from the law of the Code. It is state-law;
alike self-help, blood-feud, marriage by capture, are absent; though family solidarity, district
responsibility, ordeal, the lex talionis, are primitive features that remain. The king is a
benevolent autocrat, easily accessible to all his subjects, both able and willing to protect
the weak against the highest-placed oppressor. The royal power, however, can only pardon when
private resentment is appeased. The judges are strictly supervised and appeal is allowed. The
whole land is covered with feudal holdings, masters of the levy, police, &c. There is a regular
postal system. The pax Babylonica is so assured that private individuals do not hesitate to
ride in their carriage from Babylon to the coast of the Mediterranean. The position of women
is free and dignified.

The Code did not merely embody contemporary custom or conserve ancient law. It is true that
centuries of law-abiding and litigious habitude had accumulated in the temple archives of each
city vast stores of precedent in ancient deeds and the records of judicial decisions, and that
intercourse had assimilated city custom. The universal habit of writing and perpetual recourse
to written contract even more modified primitive custom and ancient precedent. Provided the
parties could agree, the Code left them free to contract as a rule. Their deed of agreement
was drawn up in the temple by a notary public, and confirmed by an oath "by god and the king."
It was publicly sealed and witnessed by professional witnesses, as well as by collaterally
interested parties. The manner in which it was thus executed may have been sufficient security
that its stipulations were not impious or illegal. Custom or public opinion doubtless secured
that the parties would not agree to wrong. In case of dispute the judges dealt first with the
contract. They might not sustain it, but if the parties did not dispute it, they were free
to observe it. The judges' decision might, however, be appealed against. Many contracts contain
the proviso that in case of future dispute the parties would abide by "the decision of the
king." The Code made known, in a vast number of cases, what that decision would be, and many
cases of appeal to the king were sent back to the judges with orders to decide in accordance
with it. The Code itself was carefully and logically arranged and the order of its sections
was conditioned by their subject-matter. Nevertheless the order is not that of modern scientific
treatises, and a somewhat different order from both is most convenient for our purpose.

The Code contemplates the whole population as falling into three classes, the amelu, the muskinu
and the ardu. The amelu was a patrician, the man of family, whose birth, marriage and death
were registered, of ancestral estates and full civil rights. He had aristocratic privileges
and responsibilities, the right to exact retaliation for corporal injuries, and liability to
heavier punishment for crimes and misdemeanours, higher fees and fines to pay. To this class
belonged the king and court, the higher officials, the professions and craftsmen. The term
became in time a mere courtesy title but originally carried with it standing. Already in the
Code, when status is not concerned, it is used to denote "any one." There was no property qualification
nor does the term appear to be racial. It is most difficult to characterize the muskinu exactly.
The term came in time to mean "a beggar" and with that meaning has passed through Aramaic and
Hebrew into many modern languages; but though the Code does not regard him as necessarily poor,
he may have been landless. He was free, but had to accept monetary compensation for corporal
injuries, paid smaller fees and fines, even paid less offerings to the gods. He inhabited a
separate quarter of the city. There is no reason to regard him as specially connected with
the court, as a royal pensioner, nor as forming the bulk of the population. The rarity of any
reference to him in contemporary documents makes further specification conjectural. The ardu
was a slave, his master's chattel, and formed a very numerous class. He could acquire property
and even hold other slaves. His master clothed and fed him, paid his doctor's fees, but took
all compensation paid for injury done to him. His master usually found him a slave-girl as
wife (the children were then born slaves), often set him up in a house (with farm or business)
and simply took an annual rent of him. Otherwise he might marry a freewoman (the children were
then free), who might bring him a dower which his master could not touch, and at his death
one-half of his property passed to his master as his heir. He could acquire his freedom by
purchase from his master, or might be freed and dedicated to a temple, or even adopted, when
he became an amelu and not a muskinu. Slaves were recruited by purchase abroad, from captives
taken in war and by freemen degraded for debt or crime. A slave often ran away; if caught,
the captor was bound to restore him to his master, and the Code fixes a reward of two shekels
which the owner must pay the captor. It was about one-tenth of the average value. To detain,
harbour, &c., a slave was punished by death. So was an attempt to get him to leave the city.
A slave bore an identification mark, which could only be removed by a surgical operation and
which later consisted of his owner's name tattoed or branded on the arm. On the great estates
in Assyria and its subject provinces were many serfs, mostly of subject race, settled captives,
or quondam slaves, tied to the soil they cultivated and sold with the estate but capable of
possessing land and property of their own. There is little trace of serfs in Babylonia, unless
the muskinu be really a serf.

The god of a city was originally owner of its land, which encircled it with an inner ring of
irrigable arable land and an outer fringe of pasture, and the citizens were his tenants. The
god and his viceregent, the king, had long ceased to disturb tenancy, and were content with
fixed dues in naturalia, stock, [v.03 p.0117] money or service. One of the earliest monuments
records the purchase by a king of a large estate for his son, paying a fair market price and
adding a handsome honorarium to the many owners in costly garments, plate, and precious articles
of furniture. The Code recognizes complete private ownership in land, but apparently extends
the right to hold land to votaries, merchants (and resident aliens?). But all land was sold
subject to its fixed charges. The king, however, could free land from these charges by charter,
which was a frequent way of rewarding those who deserved well of the state. It is from these
charters that we learn nearly all we know of the obligations that lay upon land. The state
demanded men for the army and the corvée as well as dues in kind. A definite area was bound
to find a bowman together with his linked pikeman (who bore the shield for both) and to furnish
them with supplies for the campaign. This area was termed "a bow" as early as the 8th century
B.C., but the usage was much earlier. Later, a horseman was due from certain areas. A man was
only bound to serve so many (six?) times, but the land had to find a man annually. The service
was usually discharged by slaves and serfs, but the amelu (and perhaps the muskinu) went to
war. The "bows" were grouped in tens and hundreds. The corvée was less regular. The letters
of Khammurabi often deal with claims to exemption. Religious officials and shepherds in charge
of flocks were exempt. Special liabilities lay upon riparian owners to repair canals, bridges,
quays, &c. The state claimed certain proportions of all crops, stock, &c. The king's messengers
could commandeer any subject's property, giving a receipt. Further, every city had its own
octroi duties, customs, ferry dues, highway and water rates. The king had long ceased to be,
if he ever was, owner of the land. He had his own royal estates, his private property and dues
from all his subjects. The higher officials had endowments and official residences. The Code
regulates the feudal position of certain classes. They held an estate from the king consisting
of house, garden, field, stock and a salary, on condition of personal service on the king's
errand. They could not delegate the service on pain of death. When ordered abroad they could
nominate a son, if capable, to hold the benefice and carry on the duty. If there was no son
capable, the state put in a locum tenens, but granted one-third to the wife to maintain herself
and children. The benefice was inalienable, could not be sold, pledged, exchanged, sublet,
devised or diminished. Other land was held of the state for rent. Ancestral estate was strictly
tied to the family. If a holder would sell, the family had the right of redemption and there
seems to have been no time-limit to its exercise.

The temple occupied a most important position. It received from its estates, from tithes and
other fixed dues, as well as from the sacrifices (a customary share) and other offerings of
the faithful, vast amounts of all sorts of naturalia; besides money and permanent gifts. The
larger temples had many officials and servants. Originally, perhaps, each town clustered round
one temple, and each head of a family had a right to minister there and share its receipts.
As the city grew, the right to so many days a year at one or other shrine (or its "gate") descended
in certain families and became a species of property which could be pledged, rented or shared
within the family, but not alienated. In spite of all these demands, however, the temples became
great granaries and store-houses; as they also were the city archives. The temple had its responsibilities.
If a citizen was captured by the enemy and could not ransom himself the temple of his city
must do so. To the temple came the poor farmer to borrow seed corn or supplies for harvesters,
&c.--advances which he repaid without interest. The king's power over the temple was not proprietary
but administrative. He might borrow from it but repaid like other borrowers. The tithe seems
to have been the composition for the rent due to the god for his land. It is not clear that
all lands paid tithe, perhaps only such as once had a special connexion with the temple.

The Code deals with a class of persons devoted to the service of a god, as vestals or hierodules.
The vestals were vowed to chastity, lived together in a great nunnery, were forbidden to open
or enter a tavern, and together with other votaries had many privileges.

The Code recognizes many ways of disposing of property--sale, lease, barter, gift, dedication,
deposit, loan, pledge, all of which were matters of contract. Sale was the delivery of the
purchase (in the case of real estate symbolized by a staff, a key, or deed of conveyance) in
return for the purchase money, receipts being given for both. Credit, if given, was treated
as a debt, and secured as a loan by the seller to be repaid by the buyer, for which he gave
a bond. The Code admits no claim unsubstantiated by documents or the oath of witnesses. A buyer
had to convince himself of the seller's title. If he bought (or received on deposit) from a
minor or a slave without power of attorney, he would be executed as a thief. If the goods were
stolen and the rightful owner reclaimed them, he had to prove his purchase by producing the
seller and the deed of sale or witnesses to it. Otherwise he would be adjudged a thief and
die. If he proved his purchase, he had to give up the property but had his remedy against the
seller or, if he had died, could reclaim five-fold from his estate. A man who bought a slave
abroad, might find that he had been stolen or captured from Babylonia, and he had to restore
him to his former owner without profit. If he bought property belonging to a feudal holding,
or to a ward in chancery, he had to return it and forfeit what he gave for it as well. He could
repudiate the purchase of a slave attacked by the bennu sickness within the month (later, a
hundred days), and had a female slave three days on approval. A defect of title or undisclosed
liability would invalidate the sale at any time.

Landowners frequently cultivated their land themselves but might employ a husbandman or let
it. The husbandman was bound to carry out the proper cultivation, raise an average crop and
leave the field in good tilth. In case the crop failed the Code fixed a statutory return. Land
might be let at a fixed rent when the Code enacted that accidental loss fell on the tenant.
If let on share-profit, the landlord and tenant shared the loss proportionately to their stipulated
share of profit. If the tenant paid his rent and left the land in good tilth, the landlord
could not interfere nor forbid subletting. Waste land was let to reclaim, the tenant being
rent free for three years and paying a stipulated rent in the fourth year. If the tenant neglected
to reclaim the land the Code enacted that he must hand it over in good faith and fixed a statutory
rent. Gardens or plantations were let in the same ways and under the same conditions; but for
date-groves four years' free tenure was allowed. The metayer system was in vogue, especially
on temple lands. The landlord found land, labour, oxen for ploughing and working the watering-machines,
carting, threshing or other implements, seed corn, rations for the workmen and fodder for the
cattle. The tenant, or steward, usually had other land of his own. If he stole the seed, rations
or fodder, the Code enacted that his fingers should be cut off. If he appropriated or sold
the implements, impoverished or sublet the cattle, he was heavily fined and in default of payment
might be condemned to be torn to pieces by the cattle on the field. Rent was as contracted.

Irrigation was indispensable. If the irrigator neglected to repair his dyke, or left his runnel
open and caused a flood, he had to make good the damage done to his neighbours' crops, or be
sold with his family to pay the cost. The theft of a watering-machine, water-bucket or other
agricultural implement was heavily fined.

Houses were let usually for the year, but also for longer terms, rent being paid in advance,
half-yearly. The contract generally specified that the house was in good repair, and the tenant
was bound to keep it so. The woodwork, including doors and door frames, was removable, and
the tenant might bring and take away his own. The Code enacted that if the landlord would re-enter
before the term was up, he must remit a fair proportion of the rent. Land was leased for houses
or other buildings to be built upon it, the tenant being rent-free for eight or ten years;
after which the building came into the landlord's possession.

Despite the multitude of slaves, hired labour was often needed, especially at harvest. This
was matter of contract, and the hirer, [v.03 p.0118] who usually paid in advance, might demand
a guarantee to fulfil the engagement. Cattle were hired for ploughing, working the watering-machines,
carting, threshing, etc. The Code fixed a statutory wage for sowers, ox-drivers, field-labourers,
and hire for oxen, asses, &c.

There were many herds and flocks. The flocks were committed to a shepherd who gave receipt
for them and took them out to pasture. The Code fixed him a wage. He was responsible for all
care, must restore ox for ox, sheep for sheep, must breed them satisfactorily. Any dishonest
use of the flock had to be repaid ten-fold, but loss by disease or wild beasts fell on the
owner. The shepherd made good all loss due to his neglect. If he let the flock feed on a field
of corn he had to pay damages four-fold; if he turned them into standing corn when they ought
to have been folded he paid twelve-fold.

In commercial matters, payment in kind was still common, though the contracts usually stipulate
for cash, naming the standard expected, that of Babylon, Larsa, Assyria, Carchemish, &c. The
Code enacted, however, that a debtor must be allowed to pay in produce according to statutory
scale. If a debtor had neither money nor crop, the creditor must not refuse goods.

Debt was secured on the person of the debtor. Distraint on a debtor's corn was forbidden by
the Code; not only must the creditor give it back, but his illegal action forfeited his claim
altogether. An unwarranted seizure for debt was fined, as was the distraint of a working ox.
The debtor being seized for debt could nominate as mancipium or hostage to work off the debt,
his wife, a child, or slave. The creditor could only hold a wife or child three years as mancipium.
If the mancipium died a natural death while in the creditor's possession no claim could lie
against the latter; but if he was the cause of death by cruelty, he had to give son for son,
or pay for a slave. He could sell a slave-hostage, unless she were a slave-girl who had borne
her master children. She had to be redeemed by her owner.

The debtor could also pledge his property, and in contracts often pledged a field, house or
crop. The Code enacted, however, that the debtor should always take the crop himself and pay
the creditor from it. If the crop failed, payment was deferred and no interest could be charged
for that year. If the debtor did not cultivate the field himself he had to pay for the cultivation,
but if the cultivation was already finished he must harvest it himself and pay his debt from
the crop. If the cultivator did not get a crop this would not cancel his contract. Pledges
were often made where the intrinsic value of the article was equivalent to the amount of the
debt; but antichretic pledge was more common, where the profit of the pledge was a set-off
against the interest of the debt. The whole property of the debtor might be pledged as security
for the payment of the debt, without any of it coming into the enjoyment of the creditor. Personal
guarantees were often given that the debtor would repay or the guarantor become liable himself.

Trade was very extensive. A common way of doing business was for a merchant to entrust goods
or money to a travelling agent, who sought a market for his goods. The caravans travelled far
beyond the limits of the empire. The Code insisted that the agent should inventory and give
a receipt for all that he received. No claim could be made for anything not so entered. Even
if the agent made no profit he was bound to return double what he had received, if he made
poor profit he had to make up the deficiency; but he was not responsible for loss by robbery
or extortion on his travels. On his return, the principal must give a receipt for what was
handed over to him. Any false entry or claim on the agent's part was penalised three-fold,
on the principal's part six-fold. In normal cases profits were divided according to contract,
usually equally.

A considerable amount of forwarding was done by the caravans. The carrier gave a receipt for
the consignment, took all responsibility and exacted a receipt on delivery. If he defaulted
he paid five-fold. He was usually paid in advance. Deposit, especially warehousing of grain,
was charged for at one-sixtieth. The warehouseman took all risks, paid double for all shortage,
but no claim could be made unless he had given a properly witnessed receipt. Water traffic
on the Euphrates and canals was early very considerable. Ships, whose tonnage was estimated
at the amount of grain they could carry, were continually hired for the transport of all kinds
of goods. The Code fixes the price for building and insists on the builder's giving a year's
guarantee of seaworthiness. It fixes the hire of ship and of crew. The captain was responsible
for the freight and the ship; he had to replace all loss. Even if he refloated the ship he
had to pay a fine of half its value for sinking it. In the case of collision the boat under
way was responsible for damages to the boat at anchor. The Code also regulated the liquor traffic,
fixing a fair price for beer and forbidding the connivance of the tavern-keeper (a female!)
at disorderly conduct or treasonable assembly, under pain of death. She was to hale the offenders
to the palace, which implied an efficient and accessible police system.

Payment through a banker or by written draft against deposit was frequent. Bonds to pay were
treated as negotiable. Interest was rarely charged on advances by the temple or wealthy landowners
for pressing needs, but this may have been part of the metayer system. The borrowers may have
been tenants. Interest was charged at very high rates for overdue loans of this kind. Merchants
(and even temples in some cases) made ordinary business loans, charging from 20 to 30%.

