L. ANNAEUS SENECA, ON BENEFITS

By Seneca

Edited by Aubrey Stewart

PREFACE

Seneca, the favourite classic of the early fathers of the church and of the Middle Ages, whom
Jerome, Tertullian, and Augustine speak of as "Seneca noster," who was believed to have corresponded
with St. Paul, and upon whom [Footnote: On the "De Clementia," an odd subject for the man who
burned Servetus alive for differing with him.] Calvin wrote a commentary, seems almost forgotten
in modern times. Perhaps some of his popularity may have been due to his being supposed to
be the author of those tragedies which the world has long ceased to read, but which delighted
a period that preferred Euripides to Aeschylus: while casuists must have found congenial matter
in an author whose fantastic cases of conscience are often worthy of Sanchez or Escobar. Yet
Seneca's morality is always pure, and from him we gain, albeit at second hand, an insight into
the doctrines of the Greek philosophers, Zeno, Epicurus, Chrysippus, &c., whose precepts and
system of religious thought had in cultivated Roman society taken the place of the old worship
of Jupiter and Quirinus.

Since Lodge's edition (fol. 1614), no complete translation of Seneca has been published in
England, though Sir Roger L'Estrange wrote paraphrases of several Dialogues, which seem to
have been enormously popular, running through more than sixteen editions. I think we may conjecture
that Shakespeare had seen Lodge's translation, from several allusions to philosophy, to that
impossible conception "the wise man," and especially from a passage in "All's Well that ends
Well," which seems to breathe the very spirit of "De Beneficiis."

   "All's Well that ends Well," Act i. sc. 1.

Though, if this will not fit the supposed date of that play, he may have taken the idea from
"The Woorke of Lucius Annaeus Seneca concerning Benefyting, that is too say, the dooing, receyving,
and requyting of good turnes, translated out of Latin by A. Golding. J. Day, London, 1578."
And even during the Restoration, Pepys's ideal of virtuous and lettered seclusion is a country
house in whose garden he might sit on summer afternoons with his friend, Sir W. Coventry, "it
maybe, to read a chapter of Seneca." In sharp contrast to this is Vahlen's preface to the minor
Dialogues, which he edited after the death of his friend Koch, who had begun that work, in
which he remarks that "he has read much of this writer, in order to perfect his knowledge of
Latin, for otherwise he neither admires his artificial subtleties of thought, nor his childish
mannerisms of style" (Vahlen, preface, p. v., ed. 1879, Jena).

Yet by the student of the history of Rome under the Caesars, Seneca is not to be neglected,
because, whatever may be thought of the intrinsic merit of his speculations, he represents,
more perhaps even than Tacitus, the intellectual characteristics of his age, and the tone of
society in Rome--nor could we well spare the gossiping stories which we find imbedded in his
graver dissertations. The following extract from Dean Merivale's "History of the Romans under
the Empire" will show the estimate of him which has been formed by that accomplished writer:--

"At Rome, we, have no reason, to suppose that Christianity was only the refuge of the afflicted
and miserable; rather, if we may lay any stress on the documents above referred to, it was
first embraced by persons in a certain grade of comfort and respectability; by persons approaching
to what we should call the MIDDLE CLASSES in their condition, their education, and their moral
views. Of this class Seneca himself was the idol, the oracle; he was, so to speak, the favourite
preacher of the more intelligent and humane disciples of nature and virtue. Now the writings
of Seneca show, in their way, a real anxiety among this class to raise the moral tone of mankind
around them; a spirit of reform, a zeal for the conversion of souls, which, though it never
rose, indeed, under the teaching of the philosophers, to boiling heat, still simmered with
genial warmth on the surface of society. Far different as was their social standing-point,
far different as were the foundations and the presumed sanctions of their teaching respectively,
Seneca and St. Paul were both moral reformers; both, be it said with reverence, were fellow-workers
in the cause of humanity, though the Christian could look beyond the proximate aims of morality
and prepare men for a final development on which the Stoic could not venture to gaze. Hence
there is so much in their principles, so much even in their language, which agrees together,
so that the one has been thought, though it must be allowed without adequate reason, to have
borrowed directly from the other. [Footnote: It is hardly necessary to refer to the pretended
letters between St. Paul and Seneca. Besides the evidence from style, some of the dates they
contain are quite sufficient to condemn them as clumsy forgeries. They are mentioned, but with
no expression of belief in their genuineness, by Jerome and Augustine. See Jones, "On the Canon,"
ii. 80.]

"But the philosopher, be it remembered, discoursed to a large and not inattentive audience,
and surely the soil was not all unfruitful on which his seed was scattered when he proclaimed
that God dwells not in temples of wood and stone, nor wants the ministrations of human hands;[Footnote:
Sen., Ep. 95, and in Lactantius, Inst. vi.] that He has no delight in the blood of victims:[Footnote:
Ep. 116: "Colitur Deus non tauris sed pia et recta voluntate."] that He is near to all His
creatures:[Footnote: Ep. 41, 73.] that His Spirit resides in men's hearts:[Footnote: Ep. 46:
"Sacer intra nos spiritus sedet."] that all men are truly His offspring:[Footnote: "De Prov,"
i.] that we are members of one body, which is God or Nature;[Footnote: Ep. 93, 95: "Membra
sumus magni corporis."] that men must believe in God before they can approach Him:[Footnote:
Ep. 95: "Primus Deorum cultus est Deos credere."] that the true service of God is to be like
unto Him:[Footnote: Ep. 95: "Satis coluit quisquis imitatus est."] that all men have sinned,
and none performed all the works of the law:[Footnote: Sen. de Ira. i. 14; ii. 27: "Quis est
iste qui se profitetur omnibus legibus innocentem?"] that God is no respecter of nations, ranks,
or conditions, but all, barbarian and Roman, bond and free, are alike under His all-seeing
Providence.[Footnote: "De Benef.," iii. 18: "Virtus omnes admittit, libertinos, servos, reges."
These and many other passages are collected by Champagny, ii. 546, after Fabricius and others,
and compared with well-known texts of Scripture. The version of the Vulgate shows a great deal
of verbal correspondence. M. Troplong remarks, after De Maistre, that Seneca has written a
fine book on Providence, for which there was not even a name at Rome in the time of Cicero.--"L'Influence
du Christianisme," &c., i., ch. 4.]

"St. Paul enjoined submission and obedience even to the tyranny of Nero, and Seneca fosters
no ideas subversive of political subjection. Endurance is the paramount virtue of the Stoic.
To forms of government the wise man was wholly indifferent; they were among the external circumstances
above which his spirit soared in serene self-contemplation. We trace in Seneca no yearning
for a restoration of political freedom, nor does he even point to the senate, after the manner
of the patriots of the day, as a legitimate check to the autocracy of the despot. The only
mode, in his view, of tempering tyranny is to educate the tyrant himself in virtue. His was
the self-denial of the Christians, but without their anticipated compensation. It seems impossible
to doubt that in his highest flights of rhetoric--and no man ever recommended the unattainable
with a finer grace--Seneca must have felt that he was labouring to build up a house without
foundations; that his system, as Caius said of his style, was sand without lime. He was surely
not unconscious of the inconsistency of his own position, as a public man and a minister, with
the theories to which he had wedded himself; and of the impossibility of preserving in it the
purity of his character as a philosopher or a man. He was aware that in the existing state
of society at Rome, wealth was necessary to men high in station; wealth alone could retain
influence, and a poor minister became at once contemptible. The distributor of the Imperial
favours must have his banquets, his receptions, his slaves and freedmen; he must possess the
means of attracting if not of bribing; he must not seem too virtuous, too austere, among an
evil generation; in order to do good at all he must swim with the stream, however polluted
it might be. All this inconsistency Seneca must have contemplated without blenching; and there
is something touching in the serenity he preserved amidst the conflict that must have perpetually
raged between his natural sense and his acquired principles. Both Cicero and Seneca were men
of many weaknesses, and we remark them the more because both were pretenders to unusual strength
of character; but while Cicero lapsed into political errors, Seneca cannot be absolved of actual
crime. Nevertheless, if we may compare the greatest masters of Roman wisdom together, the Stoic
will appear, I think, the more earnest of the two, the more anxious to do his duty for its
own sake, the more sensible of the claims of mankind upon him for such precepts of virtuous
living as he had to give. In an age of unbelief and compromise he taught that Truth was positive
and Virtue objective. He conceived, what never entered Cicero's mind, the idea of improving
his fellow-creatures; he had, what Cicero had not, a heart for conversion to Christianity."

To this eloquent account of Seneca's position and of the tendency of his writings I have nothing
to add. The main particulars of his life, his Spanish extraction (like that of Lacan and Martial),
his father's treatises on Rhetoric, his mother Helvia, his brothers, his wealth, his exile
in Corsica, his outrageous flattery of Claudius and his satiric poem on his death--"The Vision
of Judgment," Merivale calls it, after Lord Byron--his position as Nero's tutor, and his death,
worthy at once of a Roman and a Stoic, by the orders of that tyrant, may be read of in "The
History of the Romans under the Empire," or in the article "Seneca" in the "Dictionary of Classical
Biography," and need not be reproduced here: but I cannot resist pointing out how entirely
Grote's view of the "Sophists" as a sort of established clergy, and Seneca's account of the
various sects of philosophers as representing the religious thought of the time, is illustrated
by his anecdote of Julia Augusta, the mother of Tiberius, better known to English readers as
Livia the wife of Augustus, who in her first agony of grief at the loss of her first husband
applied to his Greek philosopher, Areus, as to a kind of domestic chaplain, for spiritual consolation.
("Ad Marciam de Consolatione," ch. iv.)

I take this opportunity of expressing my gratitude to the Rev. J. E. B. Mayor, Professor of
Latin in the University of Cambridge, for his kindness in finding time among his many and important
literary labours for reading and correcting the proofs of this work.

The text which I have followed for De Beneficiis is that of Gertz, Berlin (1876.).

AUBREY STEWART

London, March, 1887.

CONTENTS

BOOK I. The prevalence of ingratitude--How a benefit ought to be bestowed--The three Graces--Benefits
are the chief bond of human society--What we owe in return for a benefit received--A benefit
consists not of a thing but of the wish to do good--Socrates and Aeschines--What kinds of benefits
should be bestowed, and in what manner--Alexander and the franchise of Corinth.

BOOK II. Many men give through weakness of character--We ought to give before our friends ask--Many
benefits are spoiled by the manner of the giver--Marius Nepos and Tiberius--Some benefits should
be given secretly--We must not give what would harm the receiver--Alexander's gift of a city--Interchange
of benefits like a game of ball--From whom ought one to receive a benefit?--Examples--How to
receive a benefit--Ingratitude caused by self-love, by greed, or by jealousy--Gratitude and
repayment not the same thing--Phidias and the statue.

BOOK III. Ingratitude--Is it worse to be ungrateful for kindness or not even to remember it?--Should
ingratitude be punished by law?--Can a slave bestow a benefit?--Can a son bestow a benefit
upon his father?--Examples

BOOK IV. Whether the bestowal of benefits and the return of gratitude for them are desirable
objects in themselves? Does God bestow benefits?--How to choose the man to be benefited--We
ought not to look for any return--True gratitude--Of keeping one's promise--Philip and the
soldier--Zeno

BOOK V. Of being worsted in a contest of benefits--Socrates and Archelaus--Whether a man can
be grateful to himself, or can bestow a benefit upon himself--Examples of ingratitude--Dialogue
on ingratitude--Whether one should remind one's friends of what one has done for them--Caesar
and the soldier--Tiberius.

BOOK VI. Whether a benefit can be taken from one by force--Benefits depend upon thought--We
are not grateful for the advantages which we receive from inanimate Nature, or from dumb animals--In
order to lay me under an obligation you must benefit me intentionally--Cleanthes's story of
the two slaves--Of benefits given in a mercenary spirit--Physicians and teachers bestow enormous
benefits, yet are sufficiently paid by a moderate fee--Plato and the ferryman--Are we under
an obligation to the sun and moon?--Ought we to wish that evil may befall our benefactors,
in order that we may show our gratitude by helping them?

BOOK VII. The cynic Demetrius--his rules of conduct--Of the truly wise man--Whether one who
has done everything in his power to return a benefit has returned it--Ought one to return a
benefit to a bad man?--The Pythagorean, and the shoemaker--How one ought to bear with the ungrateful.

L. A. SENECA

ON BENEFITS.

DEDICATED TO

AEBUTIUS LIBERALIS.

BOOK I.

I.

Among the numerous faults of those who pass their lives recklessly and without due reflexion,
my good friend Liberalis, I should say that there is hardly any one so hurtful to society as
this, that we neither know how to bestow or how to receive a benefit. It follows from this
that benefits are badly invested, and become bad debts: in these cases it is too late to complain
of their not being returned, for they were thrown away when we bestowed them. Nor need we wonder
that while the greatest vices are common, none is more common than ingratitude: for this I
see is brought about by various causes. The first of these is, that we do not choose worthy
persons upon whom to bestow our bounty, but although when we are about to lend money we first
make a careful enquiry into the means and habits of life of our debtor, and avoid sowing seed
in a worn-out or unfruitful soil, yet without any discrimination we scatter our benefits at
random rather than bestow them. It is hard to say whether it is more dishonourable for the
receiver to disown a benefit, or for the giver to demand a return of it: for a benefit is a
loan, the repayment of which depends merely upon the good feeling of the debtor. To misuse
a benefit like a spendthrift is most shameful, because we do not need our wealth but only our
intention to set us free from the obligation of it; for a benefit is repaid by being acknowledged.
Yet while they are to blame who do not even show so much gratitude as to acknowledge their
debt, we ourselves are to blame no less. We find many men ungrateful, yet we make more men
so, because at one time we harshly and reproachfully demand some return for our bounty, at
another we are fickle and regret what we have given, at another we are peevish and apt to find
fault with trifles. By acting thus we destroy all sense of gratitude, not only after we have
given anything, but while we are in the act of giving it. Who has ever thought it enough to
be asked for anything in an off-hand manner, or to be asked only once? Who, when he suspected
that he was going to be asked for any thing, has not frowned, turned away his face, pretended
to be busy, or purposely talked without ceasing, in order not to give his suitor a chance of
preferring his request, and avoided by various tricks having to help his friend in his pressing
need? and when driven into a corner, has not either put the matter off, that is, given a cowardly
refusal, or promised his help ungraciously, with a wry face, and with unkind words, of which
he seemed to grudge the utterance. Yet no one is glad to owe what he has not so much received
from his benefactor, as wrung out of him. Who can be grateful for what has been disdainfully
flung to him, or angrily cast at him, or been given him out of weariness, to avoid further
trouble? No one need expect any return from those whom he has tired out with delays, or sickened
with expectation. A benefit is received in the same temper in which it is given, and ought
not, therefore, to be given carelessly, for a man thanks himself for that which he receives
without the knowledge of the giver. Neither ought we to give after long delay, because in all
good offices the will of the giver counts for much, and he who gives tardily must long have
been unwilling to give at all. Nor, assuredly, ought we to give in offensive manner, because
human nature is so constituted that insults sink deeper than kindnesses; the remembrance of
the latter soon passes away, while that of the former is treasured in the memory; so what can
a man expect who insults while he obliges? All the gratitude which he deserves is to be forgiven
for helping us. On the other hand, the number of the ungrateful ought not to deter us from
earning men's gratitude; for, in the first place, their number is increased by our own acts.
Secondly, the sacrilege and indifference to religion of some men does not prevent even the
immortal gods from continuing to shower their benefits upon us: for they act according to their
divine nature and help all alike, among them even those who so ill appreciate their bounty.
Let us take them for our guides as far as the weakness of our mortal nature permits; let us
bestow benefits, not put them out at interest. The man who while he gives thinks of what he
will get in return, deserves to be deceived. But what if the benefit turns out ill? Why, our
wives and our children often disappoint our hopes, yet we marry--and bring up children, and
are so obstinate in the face of experience that we fight after we have been beaten, and put
to sea after we have been shipwrecked. How much more constancy ought we to show in bestowing
benefits! If a man does not bestow benefits because he has not received any, he must have bestowed
them in order to receive them in return, and he justifies ingratitude, whose disgrace lies
in not returning benefits when able to do so. How many are there who are unworthy of the light
of day? and nevertheless the sun rises. How many complain because they have been born? yet
Nature is ever renewing our race, and even suffers men to live who wish that they had never
lived. It is the property of a great and good mind to covet, not the fruit of good deeds, but
good deeds themselves, and to seek for a good man even after having met with bad men. If there
were no rogues, what glory would there be in doing good to many? As it is, virtue consists
in bestowing benefits for which we are not certain of meeting with any return, but whose fruit
is at once enjoyed by noble minds. So little influence ought this to have in restraining us
from doing good actions, that even though I were denied the hope of meeting with a grateful
man, yet the fear of not having my benefits returned would not prevent my bestowing them, because
he who does not give, forestalls the vice of him who is ungrateful. I will explain what I mean.
He who does not repay a benefit, sins more, but he who does not bestow one, sins earlier.

  "If thou at random dost thy bounties waste,
   Much must be lost, for one that's rightly placed."

II. In the former verse you may blame two things, for one should not cast them at random, and
it is not right to waste anything, much less benefits; for unless they be given with judgement,
they cease to be benefits, and, may be called by any other name you please. The meaning of
the latter verse is admirable, that one benefit rightly bestowed makes amends for the loss
of many that have been lost. See, I pray you, whether it be not truer and more worthy of the
glory of the giver, that we should encourage him to give, even though none of his gifts should
be worthily placed. "Much must be lost." Nothing is lost because he who loses had counted the
cost before. The book-keeping of benefits is simple: it is all expenditure; if any one returns
it, that is clear gain; if he does not return it, it is not lost, I gave it for the sake of
giving. No one writes down his gifts in a ledger, or like a grasping creditor demands repayment
to the day and hour. A good man never thinks of such matters, unless reminded of them by some
one returning his gifts; otherwise they become like debts owing to him. It is a base usury
to regard a benefit as an investment. Whatever may have been the result of your former benefits,
persevere in bestowing others upon other men; they will be all the better placed in the hands
of the ungrateful, whom shame, or a favourable opportunity, or imitation of others may some
day cause to be grateful. Do not grow weary, perform your duty, and act as becomes a good man.
Help one man with money, another with credit, another with your favour; this man with good
advice, that one with sound maxims. Even wild beasts feel kindness, nor is there any animal
so savage that good treatment will not tame it and win love from it. The mouths of lions are
handled by their keepers with impunity; to obtain their food fierce elephants become as docile
as slaves: so that constant unceasing kindness wins the hearts even of creatures who, by their
nature, cannot comprehend or weigh the value of a benefit. Is a man ungrateful for one benefit?
perhaps he will not be so after receiving a second. Has he forgotten two kindnesses? perhaps
by a third he may be brought to remember the former ones also.

III. He who is quick to believe that he has thrown away his benefits, does really throw them
away; but he who presses on and adds new benefits to his former ones, forces out gratitude
even from a hard and forgetful breast. In the face of many kindnesses, your friend will not
dare to raise his eyes; let him see you whithersoever he turns himself to escape from his remembrance
of you; encircle him with your benefits. As for the power and property of these, I will explain
it to you if first you will allow me to glance at a matter which does not belong to our subject,
as to why the Graces are three in number, why they are sisters, why hand in hand, and why they
are smiling and young, with a loose and transparent dress. Some writers think that there is
one who bestows a benefit, one who receives it, and a third who returns it; others say that
they represent the three sorts of benefactors, those who bestow, those who repay, and those
who both receive and repay them. But take whichever you please to be true; what will this knowledge
profit us? What is the meaning of this dance of sisters in a circle, hand in hand? It means
that the course of a benefit is from hand to hand, back to the giver; that the beauty of the
whole chain is lost if a single link fails, and that it is fairest when it proceeds in unbroken
regular order. In the dance there is one, esteemed beyond the others, who represents the givers
of benefits. Their faces are cheerful, as those of men who give or receive benefits are wont
to be. They are young, because the memory of benefits ought not to grow old. They are virgins,
because benefits are pure and untainted, and held holy by all; in benefits there should be
no strict or binding conditions, therefore the Graces wear loose flowing tunics, which are
transparent, because benefits love to be seen. People who are not under the influence of Greek
literature may say that all this is a matter of course; but there can be no one who would think
that the names which Hesiod has given them bear upon our subject. He named the eldest Aglaia,
the middle one Euphrosyne, the third Thalia. Every one, according to his own ideas, twists
the meaning of these names, trying to reconcile them with some system, though Hesiod merely
gave his maidens their names from his own fancy. So Homer altered the name of one of them,
naming her Pasithea, and betrothed her to a husband, in order that you may know that they are
not vestal virgins. [Footnote: i.e. not vowed to chastity.]

I could find another poet, in whose writings they are girded, and wear thick or embroidered
Phrygian robes. Mercury stands with them for the same reason, not because argument or eloquence
commends benefits, but because the painter chose to do so. Also Chrysippus, that man of piercing
intellect who saw to the very bottom of truth, who speaks only to the point, and makes use
of no more words than are necessary to express his meaning, fills his whole treatise with these
puerilities, insomuch that he says but very little about the duties of giving, receiving, and
returning a benefit, and has not so much inserted fables among these subjects, as he has inserted
these subjects among a mass of fables. For, not to mention what Hecaton borrows from him, Chrysippus
tells us that the three Graces are the daughters of Jupiter and Eurynome, that they are younger
than the Hours, and rather more beautiful, and that on that account they are assigned as companions
to Venus. He also thinks that the name of their mother bears upon the subject, and that she
is named Eurynome because to distribute benefits requires a wide inheritance; as if the mother
usually received her name after her daughters, or as if the names given by poets were true.
In truth, just as with a 'nomenclator' audacity supplies the place of memory, and he invents
a name for every one whose name he cannot recollect, so the poets think that it is of no importance
to speak the truth, but are either forced by the exigencies of metre, or attracted by sweetness
of sound, into calling every one by whatever name runs neatly into verse. Nor do they suffer
for it if they introduce another name into the list, for the next poet makes them bear what
name he pleases. That you may know that this is so, for instance Thalia, our present subject
of discourse, is one of the Graces in Hesiod's poems, while in those of Homer she is one of
the Muses.

