I usually keep but one plant of a kind, and in order to keep that one blooming at its best
I have been in the habit of keeping the withered flowers cut off, and not allowing them to
ripen seed, but there are many possibilities in this way of increasing plants. By exchanges
with friends last fall I received several varieties of Geraniums, that were new to me. Among
them was one named Albert Delarix; the flower is bright pink, shaded deeper in the centre,
and plentifully dotted over with darker spots; it is very delicate and very beautiful. Another
was Souvenir de Mirande, that reminds one of a cluster of Apple blossoms. Now one word about
two flowers I received from Floral Park in May. Amaryllis Formosissima was in bloom in one
week after I planted the bulb. It was just like the picture in the catalogue. Ismene Calathena
bloomed in one month after planting. I have never seen any description of this plant that does
it justice. I bought one on the recommendation that "it was sure to give satisfaction," and
I can cheerfully recommend it where a white Amaryllis is desired. It is a flower not easy to
describe.--Mrs. M. C. Marshall.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SEEDS $1.50 worth to Test
  Free to Everybody.

I want every reader of this paper who plants a garden to send for my =Free Trial Complete Garden
Collection=, consisting of the following 15 Grand New Varieties of Seed.

  Beet, Perfected Red Turnip, earliest, sweetest, best.

  Carrot, Yellow Giant, monstrous size, great cropper.

  Cabbage, July Wonder, wonderful early, solid heads.

  Cabbage, Winter Header, large, fine, sure to head.

  Celery, Winter Giant, large, crisp, finest winter sort.

  Cucumber, Family Favorite, best for eating or pickling.

  Lettuce, Crisp as Ice, early, tender, heads finely.

  Musk Melon, Luscious Gem, fine flavor, best known.

  Onion, Prizetaker, wt. 3 lbs., 1,000 bush, per acre.

  Parsnip, White Sugar, sweet, long, smooth roots.

  Radish, Striped Triumph, handsome, early, crisp.

  Tomato, Early Tree, early, large, red, tree shaped.

  Turnip, Sweetest German, large, sweet, keeps well.

  Sweet Peas, 1-2 oz. California Giants Mixed, grand colors.

  Flower Seeds, large packet, 500 sorts mixed together.

I WISH to give you the above 15 packets as a Free Trial of my superior Seeds, believing that
after one trial you will always buy of me. To prevent people sending who have no use for seeds,
I ask you to enclose 10cts. as a guarantee that you will plant seeds and when received show
collection to your friends. I will promptly mail the 15 packets (well worth $1.50) and enclose
a due bill for the 10c., which you can return to me at any time with an order for 25c. or over
of seeds, and get your selection of 10c. worth free. Thus this trial is absolutely free. Catalogue
free. All warranted, tested seeds supplied at about wholesale prices.

  J. J. BELL, Deposit, N.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

TEXAS

  Editor Mayflower:

During the hot months here in Central Texas we pass a great deal of our time on the gallery,
which is a very necessary part of a Southern home. If it faces a public road it has its drawbacks,
and sometimes, by reason of arid soil or large trees near the house, vines will not flourish.
To such a gallery one or two movable screens will be of great use. Mine, last year, was made
of a rather deep, narrow, long box, about 18 inches deep, 12 inches wide and 36 inches long.
Can be mounted on casters or not. If hard winds prevail, two short cross strips on the ends
of the box will prevent tipping over. My screen was four feet square, made of a light frame
work of narrow laths and wire netting, fastened securely to the box. The box was planted with
Madeira Vine tubers, and was ready for use in six weeks. I kept it clipped all summer to induce
new growth. It was very pretty, and behind the green bank I sewed or read, secure from the
public gaze. Behind this screen I placed my afternoon tea table, and sometimes in the cool
of the afternoon enjoyed a social chat. This year I shall make one of blooming vines, to stay
out of doors till buds set. I have a two year old Empress of China Rose I expect to use the
same way.--Mrs. W. J. Standlee.

VIRGINIA

  Editor Mayflower:

What Emma Odell says in the October issue of the Mississippi negro is equally true of his brother,
or rather sister, in Virginia. Poor as this shiftless class usually is, many a cabin of rude
logs nestles amid dainty trailing vines and bright hued blossoms, well worthy to adorn a far
more pretentious mansion. I never knew any member of the colored race here to boast a pit or
greenhouse.--doubtless because they can usually beg enough cuttings of tender plants from white
neighbors in the spring to fill their tin cans. Little care they for flower pots; any old broken
pitcher, rusty bucket, water pail or teapot, it matters not, so it will hold dirt. It is the
plant they are after, not a pretty pot to hold it. Their "luck" with Chrysanthemums amounts
almost to magic sometimes. They can make almost any plant thrive and blossom, though seemingly
in their daily round of toil they have but scant time to work over their flowers.--Roe Ann Oke.

       *       *       *       *       *
Free

Don't Pay $30

for a talking machine when you can get one FREE for introducing our wonderful fast-selling
SKALPO, a combination Shampoo, Dandruff, Germ destroyer and Hair tonic in concentrated powder
form, from the formula of an eminent scalp specialist. We spare no expense to introduce SKALPO
in every home. Send us your name and address TO-DAY and we will mail you postpaid and TRUST
YOU with 30 packets of SKALPO. Sell them at 10c. each. When sold send us the $3.00, and we
will send you the same day we receive the money, absolutely FREE and without charge for boxing,
packing, etc., a high grade talking-machine with 1 comic record and 25 points, or any of the
numerous valuable presents such as Cameras, Watches, Clocks, Dolls, Toilet Sets, etc., etc.,
described in our premium list which will be sent you on receipt of your name and address. Write
us NOW and earn a valuable present WITHOUT COST TO YOU. =THE SKALPO CO., Dept. 23, 194 B'way, N.Y.=

(Management established 12 years on Broadway)

One or more packets of SKALPO at 10 cents each will be sent on receipt of price in cash or stamps.

  FREE TRUSS

I have a truss that's cured hundreds of ruptures. It's safe sure and easy as an old stocking.
No elastic or steel bands around the body or between the legs. Holds any rupture. To introduce
it every sufferer who answers this ad. can get one free. The U. S. Government has granted me
a patent. ALEX. SPIERS, 733 Main St., Westbrook. Maine.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CONSUMPTION

  Cured by New

  LUNG DEVELOPER

  I gladly send it to all who answer this advertisement to

  Try FREE--Pay When Satisfied

I want every one who has catarrh, bronchitis, a cough, "lingering cold," or any other of the
symptoms of deadly Consumption, to send me his or her name. I will send by return mail my new
=Ozonized Lung Developer=, together with my new 3-fold =Rational System= of Treatment, which
is producing such marvelous results in checking and repairing the ravages of pulmonary diseases
and building up wasted tissues. If you are fully satisfied with the benefit from this treatment,
send me five dollars; if not, don't send me a cent. =You decide.=

Dr Hill's Ozonized Lung Developer.

This remarkable Developer enables you not only to build new cell tissue by systematic exercise
of the lungs, but also to send oxonized air into lung cells not now used. The effect is immediate--the
pulse is quickened, the nerves reinforced, the appetite increased.

If you have the hacking cough or any of the throat and lung weaknesses that are the sure signs
of Tuberculosis, or if there is a record of Consumption in your family history, don't delay,
but send your name to-day to Dr. J. Lawrence Hill, 133 Hill Apartments, Jackson, Mich. A splendid
book (in colors) on pulmonary diseases comes free with the treatment. If you enclose 15 cents
I will also prepay all express charges. Write now--there's risk in delay.

In writing please mention The Mayflower.

       *       *       *       *       *

VERMONT

  Editor Mayflower:

It is only an old paint keg, but it contains things of beauty, which are "a joy forever." In
December, the weather being unusually mild, with no snow on the ground, I visited the woods
on the last botanizing expedition of the year. Most of the plants were curled up for their
winter sleep, but a little search brought to light undeveloped Ferns of some species and others
that were still green with last season's growth. They were carefully taken up and set out,
and have been kept in a northeast window through the winter. Now they are rested and for several
weeks have been waking up. Let me tell you what spring reveals in that limited space, as some
unlooked-for plants were hidden under the moss and Ferns. Above all the rest rise delicate
fronds of the Maiden Hair and more of the reddish crooks are unfolding. The common Polypodium
shows both the fruited fronds of last year and the lighter green of recent growth. Rarest of
all is the Walking Leaf, also fruited, with its long feet reaching nearly across the keg. They
will find a foothold, and so form new plants. The tiny Asplenium Trichomanes, which has never
before flourished when transplanted by me, is sending up fresh fronds, already fruiting. A
few fronds each of the Buck Fern and Cystoptiris or Bladder Fern, with at least three kinds
of moss complete the list of "Flowerless Plants." Three little clumps of Violets are sending
out new leaves. There are a few leaves of Partridge-berry vine, a yellow Oxalis, an Orchid
called Rattlesnake-Plantain, having lovely velvety leaves veined with white, a few sprigs of
Mouse-ear Chickweed, and, last of all, a leaf of a Jack-in-the-Pulpit plant, the corm of which
was doubtless hidden among the roots of the Ferns. So, while the cold winds are blowing, snow
is yet on the ground, and the thermometer registers several degrees lower than the freezing
point, I have a little bit of summer where, at my leisure, I may study the development of fifteen
species of plants, at the same time admiring their delicate beauty and inhaling the odor of
the woods.--M. A. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

  FREE
  FREE
  FREE

Send us your name and address, we will mail you postpaid and TRUST YOU with 20 of our fast-selling
jewelry novelties to be sold at 10c. each: send us the $2.00 and we will send you the same
day FREE AND WITHOUT CHARGE an AMERICAN camera with complete developing and toning outfit.
This camera is made by the well-known firm The American Co., N. Y., and every camera delivered
by them is guaranteed to take a perfect picture. This is an honest advertisement. We forfeit
$100.00 to anyone who sends us $2.00 and can prove we do not send the Camera and outfit.

  GEM JEWELRY CO.,
  Dept. 11, No. 196 Broadway, N. Y.

In writing please mention The Mayflower.

       *       *       *       *       *

  RHEUMATISM

  Cured

  Through the Feet

  Thousands Are Being Cured at

  Home Every Month by This

  New Discovery, Which is

  Sent to Everybody to

  TRY FREE--PAY WHEN SATISFIED.

Don't neglect rheumatism. The Acid poisons accumulate day by day until joints become solidified
in horribly distorted shapes and relief from the indescribable suffering is beyond the power
of man to give.

Heed the warning pains of rheumatism and rid your system of the cause while you can by wearing
Magic Foot Drafts. Don't take harmful medicine. The Drafts draw out the acid poisons through
the great pores of the feet, where the capillary and nerve systems are most susceptible, reaching
and curing rheumatism in every part of the body.

If you have rheumatism send your name to-day to the Magic Foot Draft Co., 134N. Oliver Bldg.
Jackson, Mich. You will get by return mail a pair of the celebrated Magic Foot Drafts, which
have made a record of curing nine out of ten cases in Jackson, where the discoverer lives,
and have already become a household remedy all over the world. No other remedy ever cured so
many cases considered incurable. That is why the makers can send them on approval. You risk
nothing. If you are satisfied with the benefit received, send one dollar. If not, send nothing.
A fine booklet in colors and many testimonials comes free with the drafts. Write to-day,

In writing please mention The Mayflower.

       *       *       *       *       *

WASHINGTON

  Editor Mayflower:

I ordered all my flowers from Floral Park and my flower garden is lovely. Every one who sees
it wonders how I can have such nice flowers when the soil is so poor and the season so dry;
but almost any one, who loves flowers as I do, can have a nice garden with a little work and
seeds from Floral Park. Will some one please tell me if English Ivy can be started from slips?
I have been trying for some time to start one from a slip a lady sent me, but for some reason
it does not seem to take root, but stays just as green as the day it was cut. [It may be rooted
in a bottle of water.--Ed.] I bought, from a neighbor's little boy, a package of mixed seed
and among them was only one nice flower, but I do not know what it is, and no one around here
knows what it is, or have ever seen any flower like it before. I planted the seed last year
and when the flowers were good size I found this plant almost in bloom, so I took it up and
planted it over near the house. Then before the frost came it had forty blossoms and a lot
of buds, so I potted it for the house, where it bloomed until it froze down while I was away
from home but I had saved some of the seed, which I planted this spring and had sixteen healthy
plants. But it seems they are hard to raise for now I have one left, which will soon bloom.
The flowers are light pink when they first come out, but the longer they are bloomed the brighter
they get. Does any one know what it is? The leaves are smooth and long in shape, while the
stock is a dull red and grows from two to three feet high; the blooms are something like the
Rambler Rose but not quite so large. I have been a subscriber only a short time but could not
be without THE MAYFLOWER now; it has helped me in many ways, and the cooking recipes are fine.--Mrs.
A. E. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Beautiful Hair

  No Longer Any Excuse for Dandruff,
  Falling Hair, Gray Hair
  or Baldness.

  A TRIAL PACKAGE MAILED FREE.

A grand discovery has been made that quickly removes dandruff, makes hair grow long and beautiful
even on heads that have been bald for years, and at the same time restores it to its natural
color. The proprietors will mail to anyone who sends name and address, a free trial package
of the remedy so that all may test it for themselves. As it is a pure vegetable product you
need have no hesitancy in using it freely, as it cannot harm the most tender scalp. Write to-day
to the Altenheim Medical Dispensary, 3156 Foso Building, Cincinnati, Ohio, enclosing a 2-cent
stamp to cover postage, and they will forward the free trial package at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

  FREE BOOK ON EYE DISEASES

  A Message of Hope to the Blind

I want every one who has any form of eye trouble to have my book.

A postal card will get it free of charge.

It illustrates and describes a majority of Eye Diseases and gives valuable advice on the care
of the eyes.

Tells how to diet, bathe, exercise, etc.

It tells all about the Oneal Dissolvent Method and what I have been able to do in the most
serious, chronic eye troubles.

It tells how you can cure yourself in your own home easily and at small expense.

I WILL also diagnose your case, and advise you free of charge. I am interested in every case
of eye disease.

I often receive letters from people who have been cured by following my advice and instructions
given in my book which did not cost them one penny.

If I can cure you without expense I will gladly do so.

My treatment is harmless and painless; my patients treat themselves in their own homes.

ALL Eye Diseases are dangerous. No matter how slight or insignificant your eye trouble may seem.

It may result in blindness unless treated now.

Don't neglect your eyes a moment if they are bothering you in the least.

Consult a competent oculist at once.

Do not be like thousands of others who have failed to heed this warning till too late.

I have restored sight to thousands of people in all parts of the world who sought my aid as
a last resort.

Many of them had been given up as hopelessly "incurable" by others yet I cured them.

I can do as much for you.

The publisher of this paper will vouch for my entire reliability.

THESE people wrote me as I am asking you to do, treated themselves at home under my direction
and were cured.

Most of them had been given up as "hopelessly incurable" by other oculists:

  "Though I am 81 years old you cured me of cataracts
  in three months after I had been afflicted for years."--Col.
  J. O. Hudnutt, Station F., Grand Rapids, Mich.

  "At 70 I had been practically blind with cataracts for
  years. You cured me in three months."--Mrs. A. P.
  Rifle, 78 Niagara St., Buffalo, N. Y.

  "Blind 20 years from cataracts caused by a shell explosion
  during the civil war cured by you in three
  months. It's marvelous,"--Albert J. Staley, Hynes, Cal.

  "I suffered everything with optic nerve paresis and
  granulated lids for 22 years, tried everything in vain, wrote
  to you as a last resort and was cured in two months."--Mrs.
  E. I. Carter, Tenstrike, Minn.

  "Almost blind for 10 years with cataracts: cured by
  the Oneal Dissolvent Method in two months. Thank
  God I heard of you."--Mrs. H. S. Spencer, Northport,
  Mich.

  "Dr. Oneal cured me of glaucoma in two months
  after New York oculists had failed to help me."--Washington
  Irving, Box 183, New Paltz, N. Y.

  "You cured me of a bad case of cataracts in two
  months."--F. H. Nye, 247 Columbus Av., Suite 9,
  Boston, Mass.

My book and advice will in no way obligate you to take my treatment, nor cost you one penny.
Address

OREN ONEAL, M. D., Suite 954, 52 Dearborn St., CHICAGO, U. S. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

Husband and Wife Both Benefited.

  Bryan, Okla.

The Doctor said I had Kidney and Bladder trouble, and it was with me for four years. I took
lots of medicine of different kinds, but got no relief until I obtained and used Vitae-Ore.
I had lost all hope of being cured, rented my farm and given up. But thanks to Vitae-Ore I
now feel like a new man. My wife has been troubled with Rheumatism for several years, and when
she saw what Vitae-Ore had done for me she commenced its use also with very satisfactory results.
B. T. Conley.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Don't Pour Oil on the Fire!

  IT'S JUST AS FOOLISH

to attempt to quench the fires of disease to check its onward spread, by using a stimulant,
a medicine preparation, tonic or treatment that depends for its effects upon an artificial
stimulant, either from alcohol or other drugs, as it is foolish and fool-hardy =to pour coal
oil upon a fire to quench the flames. You wouldn't be so foolish--you would pity a person who
would=--yet that is just =what you and thousands= of others are doing every day that you pour
into your stomachs, that you put into your system, the drugs, tonics, tablets, powders and
compounds, =made to sell=, and to sell only. =They only serve to feed the fires, not to quench
them.=

Vitae-Ore. =Nature's own remedy=, offered on thirty days' trial to every reader of this paper,
=is not a compound=, =not a drug=, =not a stimulant=! It is manufactured in a laboratory, man
neither controls nor directs--=Nature's Laboratory=--under the supervision of =THE MASTER CHEMIST=--Nature.
It was and is intended by her for the stomachs of men, =to cure all the ills of mankind=. It
does not depend for its power upon a stimulating ingredient--does not build up temporarily,
and then, when its effects are worn out and off, leave the system =worse off, more a-fire=
than before. It builds up =a permanent cure= by first laying a =permanent foundation=, and
then adding to it, building upon it stone after stone, layer upon layer, until the structure
is complete and the body is delivered over to the owner's possession--=firm, sound and hearty=
in every muscle, vein and fiber. It's the way all permanent structures are built; =it's the
only right way=. =Produced by the same immutable, unchangeable, natural law= that produced
the =human organism itself=, it supplies to that organism those elements which in poor health
are lacking, elements that must be placed and retained in the system if permanent good health
is to be enjoyed, and Vitae-Ore and Vitae-Ore only can put and retain them there.

If you are sick and ailing, if you are all run down, if your organs, your blood, your stomach,
your heart, your kidneys, are not working right, =if you are sick and do not know what is the
matter with you=, if the doctors cannot and do not tell you, cannot and do not help you, =you
ought to give this wonderful, natural, mineral remedy a trial= and the chance it needs =to
prove= all this to you. It won't cost you a penny! =The owners take all the risk!= What doctor,
what hospital, what sanitarium, has ever offered to treat you this way? What other medicine
has ever been so offered? =You are to be both judge and jury, to pass upon it.= You have the
entire say-so. If it helps you, you pay for it--if it does not help you, you do not pay for
it. One package, =ENOUGH= for a month's trial, is all that is necessary to convince you. How
can you refuse? If you need it and do not send for it, =what is your excuse?= You are to be
the judge.

READ THIS SPECIAL OFFER!

WE WILL SEND to every sick and ailing person who writes us, mentioning THE MAYFLOWER, a full-sized
=One Dollar= package of =VITAE-ORE=, by mail, =postpaid=, sufficient for one month's treatment,
to be paid for within one month's time after receipt, if the receiver can truthfully say that
its use has done him or her more good than all the drugs and dopes of quacks or good doctors
or patent medicines he or she has ever used. =Read= this over again carefully, and understand
that we ask our pay only =when it has done you good, not before=. We take all the risk; you
have nothing to lose. If it does not benefit you, you pay us nothing. =Vitae-Ore= is a natural,
hard, adamantine rock-like substance--mineral--=Ore=--mined from the ground like gold and silver,
and requires about twenty years for oxidization. It contains free iron, free sulphur and magnesium,
and one package will equal in medicinal strength and curative value 800 gallons of the most
powerful efficacious mineral water drunk fresh at the springs. It is a geological discovery,
to which there is nothing added or taken from. It is the marvel of the century for curing such
diseases as--=Rheumatism, Bright's Disease, Blood Poisoning, Heart Trouble, Dropsy, Catarrh
and Throat Affections, Liver, Kidney and Bladder Ailments, Stomach and Female Disorders, La
Grippe, Malarial Fever, Nervous Prostration and General Debility= as thousands testify, and
as no one, answering this, writing for a package, will deny after using. =Vitae-Ore= has cured
more chronic, obstinate, pronounced incurable cases than any other known medicine, and will
reach every case with a more rapid and powerful curative action than any medicine, combination
of medicines, or doctor's prescriptions which it is possible to procure.

=Vitae-Ore= will do the same for you as it has for hundreds of readers of THE MAYFLOWER, if
you will give it a trial. =Send for a $1. package at our risk.= You have nothing to lose but
the stamp to answer this announcement. =We want no one's money whom Vitae-Ore cannot benefit.
You are to be the judge!= Can anything be more fair? What sensible person, no matter how prejudiced
he or she may be, who desires a cure and is willing to pay for it, would hesitate to try =Vitae-Ore=
on this liberal offer? One package is usually sufficient to cure ordinary cases; two or three
for chronic, obstinate cases. =We mean just what we say= in this announcement and will do just
as we agree. Write to-day for a package at our risk and expense, giving your age and ailments,
and mention THE MAYFLOWER, so we may know that you are entitled to this liberal offer.

NOT A PENNY UNLESS YOU ARE BENEFITED.

This offer will challenge the attention and consideration, and afterwards the gratitude of
every living person who desires better health or who suffers pains, ills, and diseases which
have defied the medical world and grown worse with age. We care not for your skepticism, but
ask only your investigation and at our expense, regardless of what ills you have, by sending
to us for a package, Address

  THEO. NOEL CO.

  M. G. Dept.
  Vitae-Ore Building,

  CHICAGO.