The sentimental reasons are the ones most often urged; they are also of a kind to appeal with
especial force to those whose responsibility for the destruction of the birds is greatest.
The women and girls, for whose adornment birds' plumage is chiefly used, think little and know
less about the services which birds perform for agriculture, and indeed it may be doubted whether
the sight of a bunch of feathers or a stuffed bird's skin suggests to them any thought of the
life that those feathers once represented. But when the wearers are reminded that there was
such a life; that it was cheery and beautiful, and that it was cut short merely that their
apparel might be adorned, they are quick to recognize that bird destruction involves a wrong,
and are ready to do their part toward ending it by refusing to wear plumage.

The small boy who pursues little birds from the standpoint of the hunter in quest of his game,
feels only the ardor of pursuit. His whole mind is concentrated on that and the hunter's selfishness,
the desire of possession, fills his heart. Ignorance and thoughtlessness destroy the birds.

Every one knows in a general way that birds render most valuable service to the farmer, but
although these services have long been recognized in the laws standing on the statute books
of the various states, it is only within a few years that any systematic investigations have
been undertaken to determine just what such services are, to measure them with some approach
to accuracy, to weigh in the case of each species the good and the evil done, and so to strike
a balance in favor of the bird or against it. The inquiries carried on by the Agricultural
Department on a large scale and those made by various local experiment stations and by individual
observers have given results which are very striking and which can no longer be ignored.

It is a difficult matter for any one to balance the good things that he reads and believes
about any animal against the bad things that he actually sees. The man who witnesses the theft
of his cherries by robin or catbird, or the killing of a quail by a marsh hawk, feels that
here he has ocular proof of harm done by the birds, while as to the insects or the field mice
destroyed, and the crops saved, he has only the testimony of some unknown and distant witness.
It is only natural that the observer should trust the evidence of his senses, and yet his eyes
tell him only a small part of the truth, and that small part a misleading one.

It is certain that without the services of these feathered laborers, whose work is unseen,
though it lasts from daylight till dark through every day in the year, agriculture in this
country would come to an immediate standstill, and if in the brief season of fruit each one
of these workers levies on the farmer the tribute of a few berries, the price is surely a small
one to pay for the great good done. Superficial persons imagine that the birds are here only
during the summer, but this is a great mistake. It is true that in warm weather, when insect
life is most abundant, birds are also most abundant. They wage an effective and unceasing war
against the adult insects and their larvae, and check their active depredations; but in winter
the birds carry on a campaign which is hardly less important in its results.

THE SCARLET TANAGER.

One of the most brilliant and striking of all American birds is the Scarlet Tanager. From its
black wings resembling pockets, it is frequently called the "Pocket Bird." The French call
it the "Cardinal." The female is plain olive-green, and when seen together the pair present
a curious example of the prodigality with which mother nature pours out her favors of beauty
in the adornment of some of her creatures and seems niggardly in her treatment of others. Still
it is only by contrast that we are enabled to appreciate the quality of beauty, which in this
case is of the rarest sort. In the January number of BIRDS we presented the Red Rumped Tanager,
a Costa Rica bird, which, however, is inferior in brilliancy to the Scarlet, whose range extends
from eastern United States, north to southern Canada, west to the great plains, and south in
winter to northern South America. It inhabits woodlands and swampy places. The nesting season
begins in the latter part of May, the nest being built in low thick woods or on the skirting
of tangled thickets; very often also, in an orchard, on the horizontal limb of a low tree or
sapling. It is very flat and loosely made of twigs and fine bark strips and lined with rootlets
and fibers of inner bark.

The eggs are from three to five in number, and of a greenish blue, speckled and blotted with
brown, chiefly at the larger end.

The disposition of the Scarlet Tanager is retiring, in which respect he differs greatly from
the Summer Tanager, which frequents open groves, and often visits towns and cities. A few may
be seen in our parks, and now and then children have picked up the bright dead form from the
green grass, and wondered what might be its name. Compare it with the Redbird, with which it
is often confounded, and the contrast will be striking.

His call is a warble, broken by a pensive call note, sounding like the syllables chip-churr,
and he is regarded as a superior musician.

"Passing through an orchard, and seeing one of these young birds that had but lately left the
nest, I carried it with me for about half a mile to show it to a friend, and having procured
a cage," says Wilson, "hung it upon one of the large pine trees in the Botanic Garden, within
a few feet of the nest of an Orchard Oriole, which also contained young, hoping that the charity
and kindness of the Orioles would induce them to supply the cravings of the stranger. But charity
with them as with too many of the human race, began and ended at home. The poor orphan was
altogether neglected, and as it refused to be fed by me, I was about to return it to the place
where I had found it, when, toward the afternoon, a Scarlet Tanager, no doubt its own parent,
was seen fluttering around the cage, endeavoring to get in. Finding he could not, he flew off,
and soon returned with food in his bill, and continued to feed it until after sunset, taking
up his lodgings on the higher branches of the same tree. In the morning, as soon as day broke,
he was again seen most actively engaged in the same manner, and, notwithstanding the insolence
of the Orioles, he continued his benevolent offices the whole day, roosting at night as before.
On the third or fourth day he seemed extremely solicitous for the liberation of his charge,
using every expression of distressful anxiety, and every call and invitation that nature had
put in his power, for him to come out. This was too much for the feelings of my friend. He
procured a ladder, and mounting to the spot where the bird was suspended, opened the cage,
took out his prisoner, and restored him to liberty and to his parent, who, with notes of great
exultation, accompanied his flight to the woods."

THE SCARLET TANAGER.

What could be more beautiful to see than this bird among the green leaves of a tree? It almost
seems as though he would kindle the dry limb upon which he perches. This is his holiday dress.
He wears it during the nesting season. After the young are reared and the summer months gone,
he changes his coat. We then find him dressed in a dull yellowish green--the color of his mate
the whole year.

Do you remember another bird family in which the father bird changes his dress each spring
and autumn?

The Scarlet Tanager is a solitary bird. He likes the deep woods, and seeks the topmost branches.
He likes, too, the thick evergreens. Here he sings through the summer days. We often pass him
by for he is hidden by the green leaves above us.

He is sometimes called our "Bird of Paradise."

Tanagers feed upon winged insects, caterpillars, seeds, and berries. To get these they do not
need to be on the ground. For this reason it is seldom we see them there.

Both birds work in building the nest, and both share in caring for the little ones. The nest
is not a very pretty one--not pretty enough for so beautiful a bird, I think. It is woven so
loosely that if you were standing under it, you could see light through it.

Notice his strong, short beak. Now turn to the picture of the Rose-Breasted Grosbeaks in April
BIRDS. Do you see how much alike they are? They are near relatives.

I hope that you may all have a chance to see a Scarlet Tanager dressed in his richest scarlet
and most jetty black.

THE RUFFED GROUSE.

The Ruffed Grouse, which is called Partridge in New England and Pheasant in the Middle and
Southern States, is the true Grouse, while Bob White is the real Partridge. It is unfortunate
that they continue to be confounded. The fine picture of his grouseship, however, which we
here present should go far to make clear the difference between them.

The range of the Ruffed Grouse is eastern United States, south to North Carolina, Georgia,
Mississippi, and Arkansas. They hatch in April, the young immediately leaving the nest with
the mother. When they hear the mother's warning note the little ones dive under leaves and
bushes, while she leads the pursuer off in an opposite direction. Building the nest and sitting
upon the eggs constitute the duties of the female, the males during this interesting season
keeping separate, not rejoining their mates until the young are hatched, when they begin to
roam as a family.

Like the Turkey, the Ruffed Grouse has a habit of pluming and strutting, and also makes the
drumming noise which has caused so much discussion. This noise "is a hollow vibrating sound,
beginning softly and increasing as if a small rubber ball were dropped slowly and then rapidly
bounced on a drum." While drumming the bird contrives to make himself invisible, and if seen
it is difficult to get the slightest clue to the manner in which the sound is produced. And
observers say that it beats with its wings on a log, that it raises its wings and strikes their
edges above its back, that it claps them against its sides like a crowing rooster, and that
it beats the air. The writer has seen a grouse drum, appearing to strike its wings together
over its back. But there is much difference of opinion on the subject, and young observers
may settle the question for themselves. When preparing to drum he seems fidgety and nervous
and his sides are inflated. Letting his wings droop, he flaps them so fast that they make one
continuous humming sound. In this peculiar way he calls his mate, and while he is still drumming,
the hen bird may appear, coming slyly from the leaves.

The nest is on the ground, made by the female of dry leaves and a few feathers plucked from
her own breast. In this slight structure she lays ten or twelve cream-colored eggs, specked
with brown.

The eyes of the Grouse are of great depth and softness, with deep expanding pupils and golden
brown iris.

Coming suddenly upon a young brood squatted with their mother near a roadside in the woods,
an observer first knew of their presence by the old bird flying directly in his face, and then
tumbling about at his feet with frantic signs of distress and lameness. In the meantime the
little ones scattered in every direction and were not to be found. As soon as the parent was
satisfied of their safety, she flew a short distance and he soon heard her clucking call to
them to come to her again. It was surprising how quickly they reached her side, seeming to
pop up as from holes in the ground.

THE RUFFED GROUSE.

At first sight most of you will think this is a turkey. Well, it does look very much like one.
He spreads his tail feathers, puffs himself up, and struts about like a turkey. You know by
this time what his name is and I think you can easily see why he is called Ruffed.

This proud bird and his mate live with us during the whole year. They are found usually in
grassy lands and in woods.

Here they build their rude nest of dried grass, weeds and the like. You will generally find
it at the foot of a tree, or along side of an old stump in or near swampy lands.

The Ruffed Grouse has a queer way of calling his mate. He stands on a log or stump, puffed
up like a turkey--just as you see him in the picture. Then he struts about for a time just
as you have seen a turkey gobbler do. Soon he begins to work his wings--slowly at first, but
faster and faster, until it sounds like the beating of a drum.

His mate usually answers his call by coming. They set up housekeeping and build their rude
nest which holds from eight to fourteen eggs. As soon as the young are hatched they can run
about and find their own food. So you see they are not much bother to their parents. When they
are a week old they can fly. The young usually stay with their parents until next Spring. Then
they start out and find mates for themselves.

I said at the first that the Ruffed Grouse stay with us all the year. In the winter, when it
is very cold, they burrow into a snowdrift to pass the night. During the summer they always
roost all night.

THE BLACK AND WHITE CREEPING WARBLER.

This sprightly little bird is met with in various sections of the country. It occurs in all
parts of New England and New York, and has been found in the interior as far north as Fort
Simpson. It is common in the Bahamas and most of the West India Islands, generally as a migrant;
in Texas, in the Indian Territory, in Mexico, and throughout eastern America.

Dr. Coues states that this warbler is a very common summer resident near Washington, the greater
number going farther north to breed. They arrive there during the first week in April and are
exceedingly numerous until May.

In its habits this bird seems to be more of a creeper than a Warbler. It is an expert and nimble
climber, and rarely, if ever, perches on the branch of a tree or shrub. In the manner of the
smaller Woodpecker, the Creepers, Nuthatches, and Titmice, it moves rapidly around the trunks
and larger limbs of the trees of the forest in search of small insects and their larvae. It
is graceful and rapid in movement, and is often so intent upon its hunt as to be unmindful
of the near presence of man.

It is found chiefly in thickets, where its food is most easily obtained, and has been known
to breed in the immediate vicinity of a dwelling.

The song of this Warbler is sweet and pleasing. It begins to sing from its first appearance
in May and continues to repeat its brief refrain at intervals almost until its departure in
August and September. At first it is a monotonous ditty, says Nuttall, uttered in a strong
but shrill and filing tone. These notes, as the season advances, become more mellow and warbling.

The Warbler's movements in search of food are very interesting to the observer. Keeping the
feet together they move in a succession of short, rapid hops up the trunks of trees and along
the limbs, passing again to the bottom by longer flights than in the ascent. They make but
short flight from tree to tree, but are capable of flying far when they choose.

They build on the ground. One nest containing young about a week old was found on the surface
of shelving rock. It was made of coarse strips of bark, soft decayed leaves, and dry grasses,
and lined with a thin layer of black hair. The parents fed their young in the presence of the
observer with affectionate attention, and showed no uneasiness, creeping head downward about
the trunks of the neighboring trees, and carrying large smooth caterpillars to their young.

They search the crevices in the bark of the tree trunks and branches, look among the undergrowth,
and hunt along the fences for bunches of eggs, the buried larvae of the insects, which when
undisturbed, hatch out millions of creeping, crawling, and flying things that devastate garden
and orchard and every crop of the field.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLUME 1. JANUARY TO JUNE, 1897.

INDEX.

 Birds, The Return of the                                pages 101
 Bird Song                                                 "   187-8
 Bird Day in the Schools                                   "   129-138
 Birds and Farmers                                         "   213
 Black Bird, Red-winged, Agelaeus Phoeniceus             "   64-68-70-71
 Blue Bird, Sialia Sialis                                "   75-76-78
 Bobolink, Dolichonyx Gryzivorus                         "   92-3-4
 Bunting, Indigo, Passerina Cyanea                       "   172-3

 Catbird, Galeoscoptes Carolinensis                      "   183-4-6
 Chickadee, Black-capped, Parus Atricopillus             "   164-5-7
 Cock of the Rock                                          "   19-21
 Crossbill, American, Loxia Curvirostra                  "   126-7
 Crow, American, Corvus Americanus                       "   97-8-100

 Duck, Mandarin, A. Galericulata                         "   8-9-11

 Flicker, Colaptes Auratus                               "   89-90
 Fly-catcher, Scissor-tailed, Milvulus Forficatus        "   161-3

 Gallinule, Purple, Ionoruis Martinica                   "   120-1
 Grebe, Pied-billed, Podilymbus Podiceps                 "   134-5-7
 Grosbeak, Rose-breasted, Habia Ludoviciana              "   113-115
 Grouse, Ruffed, Bonasa Umbellus                         "   218-220-221
 Gull, Ring-billed, Larus Delawarensis                   "   198-199

 Halo, The                                                 "   150
 Hawk, Marsh, Circus Hudsonius                           "   158-159
 Hawk, Night, Chordeiles Virginianus                     "   175-6-8
 Heron, Black-crowned, Nycticorax Nycticorax Naevius     "   196-7

 Jay, American Blue, Cyanocitta Cristata                 "   39-41
 Jay, Arizona Green, Xanthoura Luxuosa                   "   146-148
 Jay, Canada, Perisoreus Canadensis                      "   116-17-19

 Kingfisher, American, Ceryle Alcyon                     "   60-61-63

 Lark, Meadow, Sturnella Magna                           "   105-7-8
 Longspur, Smith's, Calcarius Pictus                     "   123-5
 Lory, Blue Mountain                                       "   66-67

 Mocking Bird, American, Mimus Polyglottos               "   192-193-201
 Mot Mot, Mexican                                          "   49-57

 Nesting Time                                              "   149-150
 Nonpareil, Passerina Ciris                              "   1-3-15

 Oriole, Baltimore, Icterus Galbula                      "   205-6-7
 Oriole, Golden, Icterus Icterus                         "   34-36
 Oriole, Orchard, Icterus Spurius                        "   154-5
 Owl, Long-eared, Asio Wilsonianus                       "   109-111-112
 Owl, Screech, Megascops Asio                            "   151-3-7
 Owl, Snowy, Nyctea Nivea                                "   209-210-211

 Paradise, Red Bird of, Paradisea Rubra                  "   22-23-25
 Parrakeet, Australian                                     "   16-18
 Parrot, King                                              "   50-51
 Pheasant, Golden, P. Pictus                             "   12-13
 Pheasant, Japan                                           "   86-88

