Old Smallways would sit over the fire mumbling of the greatness of other days, of old Sir Peter,
who drove his coach to Brighton and back in eight-and-twenty hours, of old Sir Peter's white
top-hats, of Lady Bone, who never set foot to ground except to walk in the garden, of the great,
prize-fights at Crawley. He talked of pink and pig-skin breeches, of foxes at Ring's Bottom,
where now the County Council pauper lunatics were enclosed, of Lady Bone's chintzes and crinolines.
Nobody heeded him. The world had thrown up a new type of gentleman altogether--a gentleman
of most ungentlemanly energy, a gentleman in dusty oilskins and motor goggles and a wonderful
cap, a stink-making gentleman, a swift, high-class badger, who fled perpetually along high
roads from the dust and stink he perpetually made. And his lady, as they were able to see her
at Bun Hill, was a weather-bitten goddess, as free from refinement as a gipsy--not so much
dressed as packed for transit at a high velocity.

So Bert grew up, filled with ideals of speed and enterprise, and became, so far as he became
anything, a kind of bicycle engineer of the let's-have-a-look-at-it and enamel chipping variety.
Even a road-racer, geared to a hundred and twenty, failed to satisfy him, and for a time he
pined in vain at twenty miles an hour along roads that were continually more dusty and more
crowded with mechanical traffic. But at last his savings accumulated, and his chance came.
The hire-purchase system bridged a financial gap, and one bright and memorable Sunday morning
he wheeled his new possession through the shop into the road, got on to it with the advice
and assistance of Grubb, and teuf-teuffed off into the haze of the traffic-tortured high road,
to add himself as one more voluntary public danger to the amenities of the south of England.

"Orf to Brighton!" said old Smallways, regarding his youngest son from the sitting-room window
over the green-grocer's shop with something between pride and reprobation. "When I was 'is
age, I'd never been to London, never bin south of Crawley--never bin anywhere on my own where
I couldn't walk. And nobody didn't go. Not unless they was gentry. Now every body's orf everywhere;
the whole dratted country sims flying to pieces. Wonder they all get back. Orf to Brighton
indeed! Anybody want to buy 'orses?"

"You can't say I bin to Brighton, father," said Tom.

"Nor don't want to go," said Jessica sharply; "creering about and spendin' your money."

3

For a time the possibilities of the motor-bicycle so occupied Bert's mind that he remained
regardless of the new direction in which the striving soul of man was finding exercise and
refreshment. He failed to observe that the type of motor-car, like the type of bicycle, was
settling-down and losing its adventurous quality. Indeed, it is as true as it is remarkable
that Tom was the first to observe the new development. But his gardening made him attentive
to the heavens, and the proximity of the Bun Hill gas-works and the Crystal Palace, from which
ascents were continually being made, and presently the descent of ballast upon his potatoes,
conspired to bear in upon his unwilling mind the fact that the Goddess of Change was turning
her disturbing attention to the sky. The first great boom in aeronautics was beginning.

Grubb and Bert heard of it in a music-hall, then it was driven home to their minds by the cinematograph,
then Bert's imagination was stimulated by a sixpenny edition of that aeronautic classic, Mr.
George Griffith's "Clipper of the Clouds," and so the thing really got hold of them.

At first the most obvious aspect was the multiplication of balloons. The sky of Bun Hill began
to be infested by balloons. On Wednesday and Saturday afternoons particularly you could scarcely
look skyward for a quarter of an hour without discovering a balloon somewhere. And then one
bright day Bert, motoring toward Croydon, was arrested by the insurgence of a huge, bolster-shaped
monster from the Crystal Palace grounds, and obliged to dismount and watch it. It was like
a bolster with a broken nose, and below it, and comparatively small, was a stiff framework
bearing a man and an engine with a screw that whizzed round in front and a sort of canvas rudder
behind. The framework had an air of dragging the reluctant gas-cylinder after it like a brisk
little terrier towing a shy gas-distended elephant into society. The combined monster certainly
travelled and steered. It went overhead perhaps a thousand feet up (Bert heard the engine),
sailed away southward, vanished over the hills, reappeared a little blue outline far off in
the east, going now very fast before a gentle south-west gale, returned above the Crystal Palace
towers, circled round them, chose a position for descent, and sank down out of sight.

Bert sighed deeply, and turned to his motor-bicycle again.

And that was only the beginning of a succession of strange phenomena in the heavens--cylinders,
cones, pear-shaped monsters, even at last a thing of aluminium that glittered wonderfully,
and that Grubb, through some confusion of ideas about armour plates, was inclined to consider
a war machine.

There followed actual flight.

This, however, was not an affair that was visible from Bun Hill; it was something that occurred
in private grounds or other enclosed places and, under favourable conditions, and it was brought
home to Grubb and Bert Smallways only by means of the magazine page of the half-penny newspapers
or by cinematograph records. But it was brought home very insistently, and in those days if,
ever one heard a man saying in a public place in a loud, reassuring, confident tone, "It's
bound to come," the chances were ten to one he was talking of flying. And Bert got a box lid
and wrote out in correct window-ticket style, and Grubb put in the window this inscription,
"Aeroplanes made and repaired." It quite upset Tom--it seemed taking one's shop so lightly;
but most of the neighbours, and all the sporting ones, approved of it as being very good indeed.

Everybody talked of flying, everybody repeated over and over again, "Bound to come," and then
you know it didn't come. There was a hitch. They flew--that was all right; they flew in machines
heavier than air. But they smashed. Sometimes they smashed the engine, sometimes they smashed
the aeronaut, usually they smashed both. Machines that made flights of three or four miles
and came down safely, went up the next time to headlong disaster. There seemed no possible
trusting to them. The breeze upset them, the eddies near the ground upset them, a passing thought
in the mind of the aeronaut upset them. Also they upset--simply.

"It's this 'stability' does 'em," said Grubb, repeating his newspaper. "They pitch and they
pitch, till they pitch themselves to pieces."

Experiments fell away after two expectant years of this sort of success, the public and then
the newspapers tired of the expensive photographic reproductions, the optimistic reports, the
perpetual sequence of triumph and disaster and silence. Flying slumped, even ballooning fell
away to some extent, though it remained a fairly popular sport, and continued to lift gravel
from the wharf of the Bun Hill gas-works and drop it upon deserving people's lawns and gardens.
There were half a dozen reassuring years for Tom--at least so far as flying was concerned.
But that was the great time of mono-rail development, and his anxiety was only diverted from
the high heavens by the most urgent threats and symptoms of change in the lower sky.

There had been talk of mono-rails for several years. But the real mischief began when Brennan
sprang his gyroscopic mono-rail car upon the Royal Society. It was the leading sensation of
the 1907 soirees; that celebrated demonstration-room was all too small for its exhibition.
Brave soldiers, leading Zionists, deserving novelists, noble ladies, congested the narrow passage
and thrust distinguished elbows into ribs the world would not willingly let break, deeming
themselves fortunate if they could see "just a little bit of the rail." Inaudible, but convincing,
the great inventor expounded his discovery, and sent his obedient little model of the trains
of the future up gradients, round curves, and across a sagging wire. It ran along its single
rail, on its single wheels, simple and sufficient; it stopped, reversed stood still, balancing
perfectly. It maintained its astounding equilibrium amidst a thunder of applause. The audience
dispersed at last, discussing how far they would enjoy crossing an abyss on a wire cable. "Suppose
the gyroscope stopped!" Few of them anticipated a tithe of what the Brennan mono-rail would
do for their railway securities and the face of the world.

In a few, years they realised better. In a little while no one thought anything of crossing
an abyss on a wire, and the mono-rail was superseding the tram-lines, railways: and indeed
every form of track for mechanical locomotion. Where land was cheap the rail ran along the
ground, where it was dear the rail lifted up on iron standards and passed overhead; its swift,
convenient cars went everywhere and did everything that had once been done along made tracks
upon the ground.

When old Smallways died, Tom could think of nothing more striking to say of him than that,
"When he was a boy, there wasn't nothing higher than your chimbleys--there wasn't a wire nor
a cable in the sky!"

Old Smallways went to his grave under an intricate network of wires and cables, for Bun Hill
became not only a sort of minor centre of power distribution--the Home Counties Power Distribution
Company set up transformers and a generating station close beside the old gas-works--but, also
a junction on the suburban mono-rail system. Moreover, every tradesman in the place, and indeed
nearly every house, had its own telephone.

The mono-rail cable standard became a striking fact in urban landscape, for the most part stout
iron erections rather like tapering trestles, and painted a bright bluish green. One, it happened,
bestrode Tom's house, which looked still more retiring and apologetic beneath its immensity;
and another giant stood just inside the corner of his garden, which was still not built upon
and unchanged, except for a couple of advertisement boards, one recommending a two-and-sixpenny
watch, and one a nerve restorer. These, by the bye, were placed almost horizontally to catch
the eye of the passing mono-rail passengers above, and so served admirably to roof over a tool-shed
and a mushroom-shed for Tom. All day and all night the fast cars from Brighton and Hastings
went murmuring by overhead long, broad, comfortable-looking cars, that were brightly lit after
dusk. As they flew by at night, transient flares of light and a rumbling sound of passage,
they kept up a perpetual summer lightning and thunderstorm in the street below.

Presently the English Channel was bridged--a series of great iron Eiffel Tower pillars carrying
mono-rail cables at a height of a hundred and fifty feet above the water, except near the middle,
where they rose higher to allow the passage of the London and Antwerp shipping and the Hamburg-America
liners.

Then heavy motor-cars began to run about on only a couple of wheels, one behind the other,
which for some reason upset Tom dreadfully, and made him gloomy for days after the first one
passed the shop...

All this gyroscopic and mono-rail development naturally absorbed a vast amount of public attention,
and there was also a huge excitement consequent upon the amazing gold discoveries off the coast
of Anglesea made by a submarine prospector, Miss Patricia Giddy. She had taken her degree in
geology and mineralogy in the University of London, and while working upon the auriferous rocks
of North Wales, after a brief holiday spent in agitating for women's suffrage, she had been
struck by the possibility of these reefs cropping up again under the water. She had set herself
to verify this supposition by the use of the submarine crawler invented by Doctor Alberto Cassini.
By a happy mingling of reasoning and intuition peculiar to her sex she found gold at her first
descent, and emerged after three hours' submersion with about two hundredweight of ore containing
gold in the unparalleled quantity of seventeen ounces to the ton. But the whole story of her
submarine mining, intensely interesting as it is, must be told at some other time; suffice
it now to remark simply that it was during the consequent great rise of prices, confidence,
and enterprise that the revival of interest in flying occurred.

It is curious how that revival began. It was like the coming of a breeze on a quiet day; nothing
started it, it came. People began to talk of flying with an air of never having for one moment
dropped the subject. Pictures of flying and flying machines returned to the newspapers; articles
and allusions increased and multiplied in the serious magazines. People asked in mono-rail
trains, "When are we going to fly?" A new crop of inventors sprang up in a night or so like
fungi. The Aero Club announced the project of a great Flying Exhibition in a large area of
ground that the removal of slums in Whitechapel had rendered available.

The advancing wave soon produced a sympathetic ripple in the Bun Hill establishment. Grubb
routed out his flying-machine model again, tried it in the yard behind the shop, got a kind
of flight out of it, and broke seventeen panes of glass and nine flower-pots in the greenhouse
that occupied the next yard but one.

And then, springing from nowhere, sustained one knew not how, came a persistent, disturbing
rumour that the problem had been solved, that the secret was known. Bert met it one early-closing
afternoon as he refreshed himself in an inn near Nutfield, whither his motor-bicycle had brought
him. There smoked and meditated a person in khaki, an engineer, who presently took an interest
in Bert's machine. It was a sturdy piece of apparatus, and it had acquired a kind of documentary
value in these quick-changing times; it was now nearly eight years old. Its points discussed,
the soldier broke into a new topic with, "My next's going to be an aeroplane, so far as I can
see. I've had enough of roads and ways."

"They TORK," said Bert.

"They talk--and they do," said the soldier.

"The thing's coming--"

"It keeps ON coming," said Bert; "I shall believe when I see it."

"That won't be long," said the soldier.

The conversation seemed degenerating into an amiable wrangle of contradiction.

"I tell you they ARE flying," the soldier insisted. "I see it myself."

"We've all seen it," said Bert.

"I don't mean flap up and smash up; I mean real, safe, steady, controlled flying, against the
wind, good and right."

"You ain't seen that!"

"I 'AVE! Aldershot. They try to keep it a secret. They got it right enough. You bet--our War
Office isn't going to be caught napping this time."

Bert's incredulity was shaken. He asked questions--and the soldier expanded.

"I tell you they got nearly a square mile fenced in--a sort of valley. Fences of barbed wire
ten feet high, and inside that they do things. Chaps about the camp--now and then we get a
peep. It isn't only us neither. There's the Japanese; you bet they got it too--and the Germans!"

The soldier stood with his legs very wide apart, and filled his pipe thoughtfully. Bert sat
on the low wall against which his motor-bicycle was leaning.

"Funny thing fighting'll be," he said.

"Flying's going to break out," said the soldier. "When it DOES come, when the curtain does
go up, I tell you you'll find every one on the stage--busy.... Such fighting, too!... I suppose
you don't read the papers about this sort of thing?"

"I read 'em a bit," said Bert.

"Well, have you noticed what one might call the remarkable case of the disappearing inventor--the
inventor who turns up in a blaze of publicity, fires off a few successful experiments, and
vanishes?"

"Can't say I 'ave," said Bert.

"Well, I 'ave, anyhow. You get anybody come along who does anything striking in this line,
and, you bet, he vanishes. Just goes off quietly out of sight. After a bit, you don't hear
anything more of 'em at all. See? They disappear. Gone--no address. First--oh! it's an old
story now--there was those Wright Brothers out in America. They glided--they glided miles and
miles. Finally they glided off stage. Why, it must be nineteen hundred and four, or five, THEY
vanished! Then there was those people in Ireland--no, I forget their names. Everybody said
they could fly. THEY went. They ain't dead that I've heard tell; but you can't say they're
alive. Not a feather of 'em can you see. Then that chap who flew round Paris and upset in the
Seine. De Booley, was it? I forget. That was a grand fly, in spite of the accident; but where's
he got to? The accident didn't hurt him. Eh? 'E's gone to cover."

The soldier prepared to light his pipe.

"Looks like a secret society got hold of them," said Bert.

"Secret society! NAW!"

The soldier lit his match, and drew. "Secret society," he repeated, with his pipe between his
teeth and the match flaring, in response to his words. "War Departments; that's more like it."
He threw his match aside, and walked to his machine. "I tell you, sir," he said, "there isn't
a big Power in Europe, OR Asia, OR America, OR Africa, that hasn't got at least one or two
flying machines hidden up its sleeve at the present time. Not one. Real, workable, flying machines.
And the spying! The spying and manoeuvring to find out what the others have got. I tell you,
sir, a foreigner, or, for the matter of that, an unaccredited native, can't get within four
miles of Lydd nowadays--not to mention our little circus at Aldershot, and the experimental
camp in Galway. No!"

"Well," said Bert, "I'd like to see one of them, anyhow. Jest to help believing. I'll believe
when I see, that I'll promise you."

"You'll see 'em, fast enough," said the soldier, and led his machine out into the road.

He left Bert on his wall, grave and pensive, with his cap on the back of his head, and a cigarette
smouldering in the corner of his mouth.

"If what he says is true," said Bert, "me and Grubb, we been wasting our blessed old time.
Besides incurring expense with that green-'ouse."

5

It was while this mysterious talk with the soldier still stirred in Bert Smallways' imagination
that the most astounding incident in the whole of that dramatic chapter of human history, the
coming of flying, occurred. People talk glibly enough of epoch-making events; this was an epoch-making
event. It was the unanticipated and entirely successful flight of Mr. Alfred Butteridge from
the Crystal Palace to Glasgow and back in a small businesslike-looking machine heavier than
air--an entirely manageable and controllable machine that could fly as well as a pigeon.

It wasn't, one felt, a fresh step forward in the matter so much as a giant stride, a leap.
Mr. Butteridge remained in the air altogether for about nine hours, and during that time he
flew with the ease and assurance of a bird. His machine was, however neither bird-like nor
butterfly-like, nor had it the wide, lateral expansion of the ordinary aeroplane. The effect
upon the observer was rather something in the nature of a bee or wasp. Parts of the apparatus
were spinning very rapidly, and gave one a hazy effect of transparent wings; but parts, including
two peculiarly curved "wing-cases"--if one may borrow a figure from the flying beetles--remained
expanded stiffly. In the middle was a long rounded body like the body of a moth, and on this
Mr. Butteridge could be seen sitting astride, much as a man bestrides a horse. The wasp-like
resemblance was increased by the fact that the apparatus flew with a deep booming hum, exactly
the sound made by a wasp at a windowpane.

Mr. Butteridge took the world by surprise. He was one of those gentlemen from nowhere Fate
still succeeds in producing for the stimulation of mankind. He came, it was variously said,
from Australia and America and the South of France. He was also described quite incorrectly
as the son of a man who had amassed a comfortable fortune in the manufacture of gold nibs and
the Butteridge fountain pens. But this was an entirely different strain of Butteridges. For
some years, in spite of a loud voice, a large presence, an aggressive swagger, and an implacable
manner, he had been an undistinguished member of most of the existing aeronautical associations.
Then one day he wrote to all the London papers to announce that he had made arrangements for
an ascent from the Crystal Palace of a machine that would demonstrate satisfactorily that the
outstanding difficulties in the way of flying were finally solved. Few of the papers printed
his letter, still fewer were the people who believed in his claim. No one was excited even
when a fracas on the steps of a leading hotel in Piccadilly, in which he tried to horse-whip
a prominent German musician upon some personal account, delayed his promised ascent. The quarrel
was inadequately reported, and his name spelt variously Betteridge and Betridge. Until his
flight indeed, he did not and could not contrive to exist in the public mind. There were scarcely
thirty people on the look-out for him, in spite of all his clamour, when about six o'clock
one summer morning the doors of the big shed in which he had been putting together his apparatus
opened--it was near the big model of a megatherium in the Crystal Palace grounds--and his giant
insect came droning out into a negligent and incredulous world.

But before he had made his second circuit of the Crystal Palace towers, Fame was lifting her
trumpet, she drew a deep breath as the startled tramps who sleep on the seats of Trafalgar
Square were roused by his buzz and awoke to discover him circling the Nelson column, and by
the time he had got to Birmingham, which place he crossed about half-past ten, her deafening
blast was echoing throughout the country. The despaired-of thing was done.

A man was flying securely and well.

Scotland was agape for his coming. Glasgow he reached by one o'clock, and it is related that
scarcely a ship-yard or factory in that busy hive of industry resumed work before half-past
two. The public mind was just sufficiently educated in the impossibility of flying to appreciate
Mr. Butteridge at his proper value. He circled the University buildings, and dropped to within
shouting distance of the crowds in West End Park and on the slope of Gilmorehill. The thing
flew quite steadily at a pace of about three miles an hour, in a wide circle, making a deep
hum that, would have drowned his full, rich voice completely had he not provided himself with
a megaphone. He avoided churches, buildings, and mono-rail cables with consummate ease as he
conversed.

"Me name's Butteridge," he shouted; "B-U-T-T-E-R-I-D-G-E.--Got it? Me mother was Scotch."

And having assured himself that he had been understood, he rose amidst cheers and shouting
and patriotic cries, and then flew up very swiftly and easily into the south-eastern sky, rising
and falling with long, easy undulations in an extraordinarily wasp-like manner.

His return to London--he visited and hovered over Manchester and Liverpool and Oxford on his
way, and spelt his name out to each place--was an occasion of unparalleled excitement. Every
one was staring heavenward. More people were run over in the streets upon that one day, than
in the previous three months, and a County Council steamboat, the Isaac Walton, collided with
a pier of Westminster Bridge, and narrowly escaped disaster by running ashore--it was low water--on
the mud on the south side. He returned to the Crystal Palace grounds, that classic starting-point
of aeronautical adventure, about sunset, re-entered his shed without disaster, and had the
doors locked immediately upon the photographers and journalists who been waiting his return.

"Look here, you chaps," he said, as his assistant did so, "I'm tired to death, and saddle sore.
I can't give you a word of talk. I'm too--done. My name's Butteridge. B-U-T-T-E-R-I-D-G-E.
Get that right. I'm an Imperial Englishman. I'll talk to you all to-morrow."

Foggy snapshots still survive to record that incident. His assistant struggles in a sea of
aggressive young men carrying note-books or upholding cameras and wearing bowler hats and enterprising
ties. He himself towers up in the doorway, a big figure with a mouth--an eloquent cavity beneath
a vast black moustache--distorted by his shout to these relentless agents of publicity. He
towers there, the most famous man in the country.

Almost symbolically he holds and gesticulates with a megaphone in his left hand.

6

Tom and Bert Smallways both saw that return. They watched from the crest of Bun Hill, from
which they had so often surveyed the pyrotechnics of the Crystal Palace. Bert was excited,
Tom kept calm and lumpish, but neither of them realised how their own lives were to be invaded
by the fruits of that beginning. "P'raps old Grubb'll mind the shop a bit now," he said, "and
put his blessed model in the fire. Not that that can save us, if we don't tide over with Steinhart's
account."

Bert knew enough of things and the problem of aeronautics to realise that this gigantic imitation
of a bee would, to use his own idiom, "give the newspapers fits." The next day it was clear
the fits had been given even as he said: their magazine pages were black with hasty photographs,
their prose was convulsive, they foamed at the headline. The next day they were worse. Before
the week was out they were not so much published as carried screaming into the street.

The dominant fact in the uproar was the exceptional personality of Mr. Butteridge, and the
extraordinary terms he demanded for the secret of his machine.

For it was a secret and he kept it secret in the most elaborate fashion. He built his apparatus
himself in the safe privacy of the great Crystal Palace sheds, with the assistance of inattentive
workmen, and the day next following his flight he took it to pieces single handed, packed certain
portions, and then secured unintelligent assistance in packing and dispersing the rest. Sealed
packing-cases went north and east and west to various pantechnicons, and the engines were boxed
with peculiar care. It became evident these precautions were not inadvisable in view of the
violent demand for any sort of photograph or impressions of his machine. But Mr. Butteridge,
having once made his demonstration, intended to keep his secret safe from any further risk
of leakage. He faced the British public now with the question whether they wanted his secret
or not; he was, he said perpetually, an "Imperial Englishman," and his first wish and his last
was to see his invention the privilege and monopoly of the Empire. Only--

It was there the difficulty began.

