PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 146

JUNE 17, 1914

CHARIVARIA.

"The Pocket Asquith" is announced, and we are asked to say that the pocket in question is not
Mr. REDMOND'S.

       ***

The discovery of gold particles in a duck's gizzard has, we are told, caused a rush of mining
prospectors to Liberty Township, Ohio. It is expected that the duck will shortly be floated
as a limited liability company.

       ***

The Valuation Department has discovered at Llangammarch Wells, Brecknockshire, 50 acres of
land for which no owner can be found. Anyone, therefore, who has lost any land is recommended
to communicate at once with the Department.

       ***

The ASTRONOMER-ROYAL, in reading his annual report at the Royal Observatory last week, said
that the mean temperature of the year 1913 was 50.5 degrees. Seeing that this temperature was
one degree above the average for the 70 years ended 1910, we consider that the epithet was
undeserved.

       ***

We hesitate to suggest that The Times is catering for cannibals, but it is certainly curious
that a recent issue should have contained the following headlines:--

"PREPARED FOODS. INFANTS, CHILDREN & INVALIDS."

       ***

By the way, the little essay on "Foods of Antiquity" omitted to mention that these may still
be picked up by curio-hunters at certain railway buffets.

       ***

What has become of all the cabs which have been displaced by the taxis? is a question which
is often asked. It has now been partially answered. According to a cable published last week,
"The steamer Rappahannock reports the presence of numerous icebergs and 'growlers' on the North
Atlantic steamship routes."

       ***

At last there are signs of a reaction against under-dressing on the stage. The producers of
a new revue advertise:--

50 REAL LIVE PERFORMERS. OVER 250 PARISIAN MODEL FROCKS AND HATS.

       ***

Mr. H. CSCINSKY, the author of the standard work, English Furniture of the Eighteenth Century,
says that 999 out of every 1,000 pieces of old oak furniture in the present day are forgeries.
The only way, therefore, to ensure that you get a genuine specimen is to order 1,000 pieces,
and the furniture trade trusts that all collectors will take this elementary precaution when
purchasing.

       ***

The abandonment of the scheme for the rebuilding of the Lambeth Police Court has caused some
disappointment among local criminals, some of whom, we are glad to hear, are ashamed to be
seen in the present structure.

       *     *     *     *     *

       *     *     *     *     *

Being convinced that Germany possesses too many Leagues and Associations the town of Seesen,
in the Harz, has established an "Association for Combating the Mania for the Formation of Leagues
and Associations"--not realising until too late that they have thereby formed one more.

       ***

"Keep your arms" is Sir EDWARD CARSON'S latest advice to the Ulster volunteers--and they have
kept their heads so well that they should have no difficulty in this respect.

       ***

An American clergyman got into trouble last week for holding up his hand and trying to stop
the traffic in the Strand. The sky-pilot found out pretty soon that he was out of his element.

       ***

A man placed a bank paper bag containing £63 10s. on the counter at the chief post-office in
Swansea, one day last week, while he changed a postal order. When he turned to pick up the
bag it had disappeared. The local police incline to the view that someone must have taken it.

       ***

A muddle-headed correspondent writes to express surprise on learning that the day devoted to
collections for the charities connected with the Variety Stage should be known as "Tag Day."
The old fellow had always imagined that "Tag Day" was a toast on German war vessels.

       *     *     *     *     *

A TIME EXPOSURE.

  I turned the family album's page
    And noted with a smile
  The efforts of a bygone age
    At photographic style;
  There, pegtopped, grandpa could be seen,
    While grandma beamed, contented
  To know her brand-new crinoline
    The latest thing invented.

  And there Aunt Mary's looks belied
    Her gravity of dress;
  That great poke-bonnet could not hide
    Her youthful comeliness;
  There, too, was father when a boy,
    And elsewhere in the series
  A youthful cousin (Fauntleroy),
    An uncle in Dundrearies.

  And then before my scornful eye
    A smirking youth appeared,
  Flaunting a loose æsthetic tie
    And embryonic beard;
  With laughter I began to shake,
    Noting the watch-chain (weighty)
  And all the things that went to make
    A "nut" in 1880.

  I looked upon the other side,
    Still tittering, to see
  What branch the fellow occupied
    Upon our family tree;
  A name was scrawled across the card
    With flourishes in plenty,
  And lo! it was the present bard
    Himself at five-and-twenty.

       *     *     *     *     *

The Sprinter.

From a testimonial to a system of health culture:--

     "I think I have never felt so glorious as I do this morning. At
     4.30 I woke up after a wet waist pack, got hot water, cleaned
     myself, took a glass of lemon juice, exercised, and for the last
     three-quarters of an hour I have been running through your notes."

He mustn't take too much exercise.

       *     *     *     *     *

THE COMPLETE DRAMATIST.

III. MEALS AND THINGS.

In spite of all you can do in the way of avoiding soliloquies and getting your characters on
and off the stage in a dramatic manner, a time will come when you realise sadly that your play
is not a bit like life after all. Then is the time to introduce a meal on the stage. A stage
meal is popular, because it proves to the audience that the actors, even when called GEORGE
ALEXANDER or ARTHUR BOURCHIER, are real people just like you and me. "Look at Sir HERBERT eating,"
we say excitedly to each other in the pit, having had a vague idea up till then that an actor
lived like a god on praise and grease-paint and his photograph in the papers. "Another cup,
won't you?" says Miss GLADYS COOPER; "No, thank you," says Mr. DENNIS EADIE--dash it, it's
exactly what we do at Twickenham ourselves. And when, to clinch matters, the dramatist makes
Mr. GERALD DU MAURIER light a real cigarette in the Third Act, then he can flatter himself
that he has indeed achieved the ambition of every stage writer, and "brought the actual scent
of the hay across the footlights."

But there is a technique to be acquired in this matter as in everything else within the theatre.
The great art of the stage-craftsman, as I have already shown, is to seem natural rather than
to be natural. Let your actors have tea by all means, but see that it is a properly histrionic
tea. This is how it should go:--

Hostess. You'll have some tea, won't you? [Rings bell.

Guest. Thank you.

Enter Butler.

Hostess. Tea, please, Matthews.

Butler (impassively). Yes, m'lady. (This is all he says during the play, so he must try and
get a little character into it, in order that "The Era" may remark, "Mr. Thompson was excellent
as Matthews." However, his part is not over yet, for he returns immediately, followed by three
footmen--just as it happened when you last called on the Duchess--and sets out the tea.)

Hostess (holding up the property lump of sugar in the tongs). Sugar?

Guest (luckily). No, thanks.

Hostess replaces lump and inclines empty teapot over tray for a moment, then hands him a cup
painted brown inside--thus deceiving the gentleman with the telescope in the upper circle.

Guest (touching his lips with the cup and then returning it to its saucer). Well, I must be going.

Re-enter Butler and three Footmen, who remove the tea-things.

Hostess (to Guest). Good-bye; so glad you could come. [Exit Guest.

His visit has been short, but it has been very thrilling while it lasted.

Tea is the most usual meal on the stage, for the reason that it is the least expensive, the
property lump of sugar being dusted and used again on the next night. For a stage dinner a
certain amount of genuine sponge-cake has to be made up to look like fish, chicken or cutlet.
In novels the hero has often "pushed his meals away untasted," but no stage hero would do anything
so unnatural as this. The etiquette is to have two bites before the butler and the three footmen
whisk away the plate. The two bites are made, and the bread is crumbled, with an air of great
eagerness; indeed, one feels that in real life the guest would clutch hold of the footman and
say, "Half a mo', old chap, I haven't nearly finished;" but the actor is better schooled than
this. Besides, the thing is coming back again as chicken directly.

But it is the cigarette which chiefly has brought the modern drama to its present state of
perfection. Without the stage cigarette many an epigram would pass unnoticed, many an actor's
hands would be much more noticeable; and the man who works the fireproof safety curtain would
lose even the small amount of excitement which at present attaches to his job.

Now although it is possible, in the case of a few men at the top of the profession, to leave
the conduct of the cigarette entirely to the actor, you will find it much more satisfactory
to insert in the stage directions the particular movements (with match and so forth) that you
wish carried out. Let us assume that Lord Arthur asks Lord John what a cynic is--the question
of what a cynic is having arisen quite naturally in the course of the plot. Let us assume further
that you wish Lord John to reply, "A cynic is a man who knows the price of everything and the
value of nothing." It has been said before, but you may feel that it is quite time it was said
again; besides, for all the audience knows, Lord John may simply be quoting. Now this answer,
even if it comes quite fresh to the stalls, will lose much of its effect if it is said without
the assistance of a cigarette. Try it for yourself.

Lord John. A cynic is a man who, etc....

Rotten. Now try again.

Lord John. A cynic is a man who, etc.... (Lights cigarette).

No, even that is not good. Once more:--

Lord John (lighting cigarette). A cynic is a man who, etc.

Better, but leaves much too much to the actor.

Well, I see I must tell you.

Lord John (taking out gold cigarette case from his left-hand upper waistcoat pocket). A cynic,
my dear Arthur (he opens case deliberately, puts cigarette in mouth, and extracts gold match-box
from right-hand trouser) is a man who (strikes match) knows the price of (lights cigarette)--everything,
and (standing with match in one hand and cigarette in the other) the value of---- pff (blows
out match) of (inhales deeply from cigarette and blows out a cloud of smoke)--nothing.

It makes a different thing of it altogether. Of course on the actual night the match may refuse
to strike, and Lord John may have to go on saying "a man who--a man who--a man who" until the
ignition occurs, but even so it will still seem delightfully natural to the audience (as if
he were making up the epigram as he went along); while as for blowing the match out he can
hardly fail to do that in one.

The cigarette, of course, will be smoked at other moments than epigrammatic ones, but on these
other occasions you will not need to deal so fully with it in the stage directions. "Duke (lighting
cigarette). I trust, Perkins, that ..." is enough. You do not want to say, "Duke (dropping
ash on trousers). It seems to me, my love ..." or, "Duke (removing stray piece of tobacco from
tongue). What Ireland needs is ..."; still less "Duke (throwing away end of cigarette). Show
him in." For this must remain one of the mysteries of the stage--What happens to the stage
cigarette when it has been puffed four times? The stage tea, of which a second cup is always
refused; the stage cutlet, which is removed with the connivance of the guest after two mouthfuls;
the stage cigarette, which nobody ever seems to want to smoke to the end--thinking of these
as they make their appearances in the houses of the titled, one would say that the hospitality
of the peerage was not a thing to make any great rush for....

But that would be to forget the butler and the three footmen. Even a Duke cannot have everything.
And what his chef may lack in skill his butler more than makes up for in impassivity.

A. A. M.

       *     *     *     *     *

From a column headed "Crimes and Tragedies" in The Western Weekly Mercury:--

     "Sir J. W. Spear, M.P., has consented to become patron of the
     newly-formed Highampton Rifle Club."

And we are left wondering which it is.

       *     *     *     *     *

       *     *     *     *     *

       *     *     *     *     *

ROOSEVELT RESURGIT

  Once more the tireless putter-right of men,
  Our roaring ROOSEVELT, swims into our ken.
  With clash of cymbals and with roll of drums,
  Reduced in weight, from far Brazil he comes.
  What risks were his! The rapids caught his form,
  Upset his bark and tossed him in the storm.
  Clutching his trumpet in a fearless hand,
  The damp explorer struggled to the land;
  Then set the trumpet to his lips and blew
  A blast that echoed all the wide world through,
  And in a tone that made the nations quiver
  Proclaimed himself the finder of a river.
  Maps, he declared, were made by doddering fools
  Who knew no better or defied the rules,
  While he, the great Progressive, traced the course
  Of waters mostly flowing to their source.
  Emerged at last and buoyed up with the sure hope
  Of geographic fame, he made for Europe;
  Flew to Madrid, and there awhile he tarried
  Till KERMIT went (good luck to K!) and married.
  Next London sees him, and with loud good will
  Yields to the mighty tamer of Brazil,
  And hears and cheers the while by his own fiat he
  Lectures our Geographical Society.
  Soon to his native land behold him go
  To take a hand in quelling Mexico.
  Does WILSON want him? Well, I hardly know.

       *     *     *     *     *

IN THE NAME OF PEACE.

SIR,--I read with intense satisfaction that at the Peace Ball at the Albert Hall last week
the lady representing Britannia carried a palm branch in place of the customary trident. This,
I venture to think, is a step in the right direction. For many years, from the pulpits and
platforms not only of our own land but of America, I have advocated a substitution of peaceful
objects for the weapons of bloodshed with which so many of our allegorical figures are encumbered.
I still wait for some artist to depict the patron saint of this fair land of ours, not attacking
the dragon with a cruel sword, but offering it in all brotherliness an orange, let us say,
or a bath bun.

But, Sir, one feature of this ball (putting aside for a moment the many reprehensible characteristics
of all such entertainments) I must and do protest against. What do I read in the daily press?
When it was desired to clear the floor, "a brigade of Guards, by subtle movements, drove the
masqueraders, who were to form the audience, behind the barricades." Now, were I a member of
the House of Commons--as some day I may be--I would make it my business to stand up in my place
and fearlessly demand of the Minister for War an explanation as to how these men of blood came
to be admitted to a Peace festival. Was it with his knowledge that they were present? and,
if so, was it with his consent? I should also desire to know whether the cost of the expedition
would fall upon the British tax-payer.

I am, Sir, Yours, etc., (Rev.) AMOS BLICK.

       *     *     *     *     *

AMENDING A BILL.

As the drought wore on to its third day I began to perceive that siphoning the pinks with soda-water
out of the dining-room window was insufficient to meet the crisis. I rang up the nearest fire
station and told them in my most staccato tones that the garden was being burnt to a cinder
and would they please--but they rang off suddenly without making a reply. It was then that
I had a bright idea--so bright that the thermometer which was hanging near my head went up
two degrees higher still.

"Araminta," I cried (she was out on the lawn tantalising a rose-bush with a kind of doll's-house
watering-can),--"Araminta, where does one go to get hose?"

Araminta bridled.

"I didn't mean that," I said, hastily coming out of the French-window to explain. "I meant
the kind of long wiggly thing you fix on to a tap at one end and it squirts at the other."

She unbridled prettily. "Oh, that!" she said. "Altruage's have them, I suppose. Altruage's
have everything. But I shouldn't get one if I were you. I believe they're fearfully expensive,
and I'm going to buy a proper watering-can this morning."

My mind, however, was made up. "Expense," I thought, "be irrigated!" I said nothing about it
to Araminta, but I decided to act.

       *     *     *     *     *

The sun was still blazing with abominable ferocity at half-past twelve when I crossed the threshold
of the Taj Mahal Stores and button-holed the first peripatetic marquis I could find.

"I want," I said, mopping my brows with the disengaged hand, "to see some hose."

"Certainly, Sir," he replied with a beaming smile. "For wear on the feet, I presume?"

"Not at all," I replied as coolly as possible. "For shampooing the head."

He looked puzzled.

"I want it to water my pinks with," I explained.

A look of divine condescension overspread his features. "Ah, you require our horticultural
department for that, Sir," he said. "Fourth to the left, fifth to the right, and ask again."
And with an infinitely horticultured gesture of the hand he motioned me on.

After a long and adventurous Odyssey and fifteen fruitless appeals I sighted a kind of green
island shore, where a young man stood in an attitude of hauteur, surrounded by a number of
pink and grey snakes and brightly coloured agricultural machines.

Making my way to him I sank exhausted into a wheel-barrow and murmured my request again.

"About what size is your garden?" he asked me when I had partially recovered.

"Slim," I said, "slim and graceful, but not really tall. Petite I believe is the technical
term. What sizes have you got in stock?"

"Perhaps about forty yards would do, Sir," he suggested, uncoiling a portion of one of the
reptiles at his feet. "I can recommend this as a strong and thoroughly reliable article. Then
you will want a union, I suppose, and a brass nozzle and a drum."

"We all want union nowadays so much in everything, don't we?" I agreed pleasantly, "but I'm
not so sure about the drum. You see the baby makes a most infernal noise as it is with a----"

He interrupted me to explain the uses of these things. The union, it seemed, was a kind of
garter to attach the hose to the tap, and the drum was where the snake wound itself to sleep
at night. "And the little pepper-castor, of course," I said, "is what one puts at the end to
make it sneeze. I understand completely. If you will have them all sent round to me to-morrow
I will pay on delivery."

       *     *     *     *     *

When I got out into the street I found that a great change had taken place. The sky overhead
was black with imminent rain. A sharp shower pattered at my heels as I sprinted for the 'bus,
and when I disembarked from it the gutters were gurgling with ill-concealed delight. As I walked
up the garden I noticed that the majority of the pinks were lying in a drunken stupor upon
their beds.

Araminta met me at the door. "Why, you must be wet through," she said. "Go up and change instantly.
And aren't you glad now you haven't got a silly old hose after all?"

"I am indeed," I replied.

Whilst I changed I thought deeply, and after dinner I sat down and wrote politely to Messrs.
Altruage as follows:

"Mr. Hopkinson regrets that through inadvertence he ordered a quantity of hose this afternoon
in Messrs. Altruage's horticultural department instead of their foot-robing studio. If Messrs.
Altruage will kindly cancel this order Mr. Hopkinson will call in the morning and select six
pairs of woollen socks."

In a climate like ours, I reflected as I posted the letter, there is a good deal to be said
for these mammoth stores.

       *     *     *     *     *

       *     *     *     *     *

IN THE PARK.

  (Souvent femme varie.)

    Little girls in June attire,
    Grumbling to your governesses,
  What is it that you desire--
    Chocolates or satin dresses,
  Jewels, or a tiny hound,
  All your own, to drag around?

    Governesses who betray
    Little love for your employment,
  If a fairy bade you say
    What would give you most enjoyment,
  Would your fancy not pursue
  Unsubstantial shadows too?

    "Fleeting joys have little use"--
    So, as teachers, you endeavour
  In your charges to induce
    Virtues which will last for ever;
  But, as women, you resent
  Anything so permanent!

       *     *     *     *     *

     "A half followed, which made Vardon dormy 3, and another half at
     the 16th, where he made a brilliant recovery after he had hit a
     spectator, gave him the match by 3 and 2."

     Times.

The recovery of the spectator wouldn't matter so much.

       *     *     *     *     *

     "A man who gave the name of James DewTJnamedhiskmhmhfr mhafr awdih
     acsih frdw hurst was remanded at Doncaster to-day charged with
     attempting to pass a worthless cheque for 30s."--Liverpool
     Express.

As soon as the cashier saw the first eighteen inches of the name at the bottom of the cheque
he had his suspicions.

       *     *     *     *     *

       *     *     *     *     *

THE YOUNG EVERYTHING.

Under this comprehensive title Messrs. Byett and Prusit have arranged for a new series of books
for the youth of both sexes, the aim of which is to provide instruction in a number of the
most desirable and profitable walks of life. The principle of the work is that it is never
too soon to end. The General Editor will be that profound and encyclopædic scholar and publicist,
Mr. ANTHONY ASQUITH, who will be assisted by some of the ablest pens in the country.

THE YOUNG BANKRUPT, by Sampson Waterstock.

An exhaustive treatise on the right mismanagement of one's affairs, with hints on the best
method of bringing about a meeting of creditors. Among the chapters are the following: "The
Way to Carey Street;" "How to settle things on one's Wife;" "Eccentric Bankrupts who have subsequently
paid in full, with Interest."

THE YOUNG BOOKMAKER, by Sharkey Hawker.

A complete guide to the Turf, than which few professions offer a more exciting opening to a
boy. How to calculate odds; how to cultivate the voice; how to concentrate public attention
on the wrong horse--these and other topics are dealt with by competent hands.

THE YOUNG FILBERT, by Gilbert Hallam.

In this entertaining volume the complete art of youthful boredom and ornamental and expensive
sloth is exploited. Where to get clothes; how much to owe for them; how soon to discard them
and get others; what adjectives to use; and where, the best nut food may be obtained--all is
told here.

THE YOUNG CENTENARIAN, by S. W. Calceby.

Hints on regimen by one of the most lucid and distinguished salubrists of the day. Everything
that can assist a boy or girl quickly to attain to the status of honourable and decrepit old
age is here carefully set forth. The author guarantees that if his instructions are carried
out the conditions of centenarianism can be reached in ten years. "Lobster salad for new-born
babes" is one of his more original ideas.

THE YOUNG AUTHOR, by Brompton MacGregor.

This illuminating treatise contains the fullest directions yet given for the securing of a
mammoth circulation and a corresponding revenue. How to exasperate Mrs. Grundy; how to secure
testimonials from Bishops and Archdeacons; how to get banned by the libraries--these and other
passports to fame and fortune are set forth with the utmost particularity in this marvellous
manual.

THE YOUNG COMPOSER, by Eric Kornstein.

This fascinating brochure gives in a succinct and animated form absolutely infallible instructions
for storming the citadel of musical fame. The enormous importance of capillary attraction,
sartorial extravagance and controversial invective are duly dwelt on, while the charming tone
and temper of the work may be gathered from the headings of some of the chapters: "The Curse
of Conservatoriums;" "The Tyranny of Tune;" "The Dethronement of WAGNER;" "A bas BEETHOVEN."

THE YOUNG AMERICAN, by Dixie Q. Peach.

In this priceless work everything that is most characteristic of the great American nation
is invitingly spread before the English youth, so that in a few weeks he will be so well equipped
with Transatlantic details as (if he wishes) to be mistaken for a real inhabitant either of
a big London hotel or a Bloomsbury boarding-house.

       *     *     *     *     *

MR. B.

To the list of signally good men must now be added Mr. B. I do not say that he should be included
in any extension of The Golden Legend, but no catalogue of irreproachables, beyond the wiles
of temptation, can henceforth be complete without him, and as a model of rectitude in business
his portrait should be on the walls of every commercial school. I can see him as the hero of
this tract and that, and in course of time his early life may be written and circulated: The
Childhood of Mr. B., or, The Boy Who Took the Right Turning.

And who is Mr. B.? All that I know of him I find in an Eastern sheet which I owe to the kindness
of a friend--The Bangkok Times Weekly Mail. Glancing through this minute and compact little
paper, which is as big as any paper ought to be, my eye alighted upon an extract from The North
China Daily News, and it is here that Mr. B. shines forth.

A certain dealer, it seems, had received an order for a machine, but, being unable to deliver
it, and wishing to avoid the penalties attending a breach of the contract, he had to resort
to guile. The following letter to a confederate at once displays him as a Machiavellian and
introduces us to that inconvenient thing, a Far Eastern incorruptible:--

     "Regarding the matter of escaping the penalty for non-delivery of
     the Bar Machine, there is only one way, to creep round same by
     diplomat, and we must make a statement of strike occur our factory
     (of course big untrue) and please address person on enclosed form
     of letter, and believe this will avoid the trouble of penalties of
     same.

     "Mr. B. is most religious and competent man, also heavily upright
     and godly, it fears me useless apply for his signature. Please
     attach same by Yokohama Office, making forge, but no cause for fear
     of prison happenings as this is often operated by other merchants
     of highest integrity.

     "It is the highest unfortunate Sir. B. is so godlike and excessive
     awkward for business purposes."

