To return to the shipping and the mercantile marine of the time of Queen Elizabeth.  The number
of Royal ships was only thirteen, the rest of the navy consisting of merchant ships, which
were hired and discharged when their purpose was served.[11] According to Wheeler, at the accession
of the Queen, there were not more than four ships belonging to the river Thames, excepting
those of the Royal Navy, which were over 120 tons in burthen;[12] and after forty years, the
whole of the merchant ships of England, over 100 tons, amounted to 135; only a few of these
being of 500 tons.  In 1588, the number had increased to 150, "of about 150 tons one with another,
employed in trading voyages to all parts and countries." The principal shipping which frequented
the English ports still continued to be foreign--Italian, Flemish, and German.

Liverpool, now possessing the largest shipping tonnage in the world, had not yet come into
existence.  It was little better than a fishing village.  The people of the place presented
a petition to the Queen, praying her to remit a subsidy which had been imposed upon them, and
speaking of their native place as "Her Majesty's poor decayed town of Liverpool."  In 1565,
seven years after Queen Elizabeth began to reign, the number of vessels belonging to Liverpool
was only twelve.  The largest was of forty tons burthen, with twelve men; and the smallest
was a boat of six tons, with three men.[13]

James I., on his accession to the throne of England in 1603, called in all the ships of war,
as well as the numerous privateers which had been employed during the previous reign in waging
war against the commerce of Spain, and declared himself to be at peace with all the world.
James was as peaceful as a Quaker.  He was not a fighting King;--and, partly on this account,
he was not popular.  He encouraged manufactures in wool, silk, and tapestry.  He gave every
encouragement to the mercantile and colonizing adventurers to plant and improve the rising
settlements of Virginia, New England, and Newfoundland. He also promoted the trade to the East
Indies.  Attempts continued to be made, by Hudson, Poole, Button, Hall, Baffin, and other courageous
seamen, to discover the North-West passage, but always without effect.

The shores of England being still much infested by Algerine and other pirates,[14] King James
found it necessary to maintain the ships of war in order to protect navigation and commerce.
He nearly doubled the ships of the Royal Navy, and increased the number from thirteen to twenty-four.
Their size, however, continued small, both Royal and merchant ships.  Sir William Monson says,
that at the accession of James I. there were not above four merchant ships in England of 400
tons burthen.[15] The East Indian merchants were the first to increase the size. In 1609, encouraged
by their Charter, they built the Trade's Increase, of 1100 tons burthen, the largest merchant
ship that had ever been built in England.  As it was necessary that, the crew of the ship should
be able to beat off the pirates, she was fully armed.  The additional ships of war were also
of heavier burthen.  In the same year, the Prince, of 1400 tons burthen, was launched; she
carried sixty-four cannon, and was superior to any ship of the kind hitherto seen in England.

And now we arrive at the subject of this memoir.  The Petts were the principal ship-builders
of the time.  They had long been known upon the Thames, and had held posts in the Royal Dockyards
since the reign of Henry VII.  They were gallant sailors, too; one of them, as already mentioned,
having made an adventurous voyage to the Arctic Ocean in his little bark, the George, of only
40 tons burthen.  Phineas Pett was the first of the great ship-builders.  His father, Peter
Pett, was one of the Queen's master shipwrights.  Besides being a ship-builder, he was also
a poet, being the author of a poetical piece entitled, "Time's Journey to seek his daughter
Truth,"[16] a very respectable performance.  Indeed, poetry is by no means incompatible with
ship-building--the late Chief Constructor of the Navy being, perhaps, as proud of his poetry
as of his ships.  Pett's poem was dedicated to the Lord High Admiral, Howard, Earl of Nottingham;
and this may possibly have been the reason of the singular interest which he afterwards took
in Phineas Pett, the poet shipwright's son.

Phineas Pett was the second son of his father.  He was born at Deptford, or "Deptford Strond,"
as the place used to be called, on the 1st of November, 1570.  At nine years old, he was sent
to the free-school at Rochester, and remained there for four years. Not profiting much by his
education there, his father removed him to a private school at Greenwich, kept by a Mr. Adams.
Here he made so much progress, that in three years time he was ready for Cambridge.  He was
accordingly sent to that University at Shrovetide, 1586, and was entered at Emmanuel College,
under charge of Mr. Charles Chadwick, the president.  His father allowed him 20L. per annum,
besides books, apparel, and other necessaries.

Phineas remained at Cambridge for three years.  He was obliged to quit the University by the
death of his "reverend, ever-loving father," whose loss, he says, "proved afterwards my utter
undoing almost, had not God been more merciful to me."  His mother married again, "a most wicked
husband," says Pett in his autobiography,[17] "one, Mr. Thomas Nunn, a minister," but of what
denomination he does not state.  His mother's imprudence wholly deprived him of his maintenance,
and having no hopes of preferment from his friends, he necessarily abandoned his University
career, "presently after Christmas, 1590."

Early in the following year, he was persuaded by his mother to apprentice himself to Mr. Richard
Chapman, of Deptford Strond, one of the Queen's Master shipwrights, whom his late father had
"bred up from a child to that profession."  He was allowed 2L. 6s. 8d. per annum, with which
he had to provide himself with tools and apparel.  Pett spent two years in this man's service
to very little purpose; Chapman then died, and the apprentice was dismissed.  Pett applied
to his elder brother Joseph, who would not help him, although he had succeeded to his father's
post in the Royal Dockyard.  He was accordingly "constrained to ship himself to sea upon a
desperate voyage in a man-of-war."  He accepted the humble place of carpenter's mate on board
the galleon Constance, of London.  Pett's younger brother, Peter, then living at Wapping, gave
him lodging, meat, and drink, until the ship was ready to sail.  But he had no money to buy
clothes. Fortunately one William King, a yoeman in Essex, taking pity upon the unfortunate
young man, lent him 3L. for that purpose; which Pett afterwards repaid.

The Constance was of only 200 tons burden.  She set sail for the South a few days before Christmas,
1592.  There is no doubt that she was bound upon a piratical adventure.  Piracy was not thought
dishonourable in those days.  Four years had elapsed since the Armada had approached the English
coast; and now the English and Dutch ships were scouring the seas in search of Spanish galleons.

Whoever had the means of furnishing a ship, and could find a plucky captain to command her,
sent her out as a privateer.  Even the Companies of the City of London clubbed their means
together for the purpose of sending out Sir Waiter Raleigh to capture Spanish ships, and afterwards
to divide the plunder; as any one may see on referring to the documents of the London Corporation.[18]

The adventure in which Pett was concerned did not prove very fortunate. He was absent for about
twenty months on the coasts of Spain and Barbary, and in the Levant, enduring much misery for
want of victuals and apparel, and "without taking any purchase of any value."  The Constance
returned to the Irish coast, "extreme poorly."  The vessel entered Cork harbour, and then Pett,
thoroughly disgusted with privateering life, took leave of both ship and voyage.  With much
difficulty, he made his way across the country to Waterford, from whence he took ship for London.
He arrived there three days before Christmas, 1594, in a beggarly condition, and made his way
to his brother Peter's house at Wapping, who again kindly entertained him. The elder brother
Joseph received him more coldly, though he lent him forty shillings to find himself in clothes.
At that time, the fleet was ordered to be got ready for the last expedition of Drake and Hawkins
to the West Indies.  The Defiance was sent into Woolwich dock to be sheathed; and as Joseph
Pett was in charge of the job, he allowed his brother to be employed as a carpenter.

In the following year, Phineas succeeded in attracting the notice of Matthew Baker, who was
commissioned to rebuild Her Majesty's Triumph. Baker employed Pett as an ordinary workman;
but he had scarcely begun the job before Baker was ordered to proceed with the building of
a great new ship at Deptford, called the Repulse.

Phineas wished to follow the progress of the Triumph, but finding his brother Joseph unwilling
to retain him in his employment, he followed Baker to Deptford, and continued to work at the
Repulse until she was finished, launched, and set sail on her voyage, at the end of April,
1596.  This was the leading ship of the squadron which set sail for Cadiz, under the command
of the Earl of Essex and the Lord Admiral Howard, and which did so much damage to the forts
and shipping of Philip II. of Spain.

During the winter months, while the work was in progress, Pett spent the leisure of his evenings
in perfecting himself in learning, especially in drawing, cyphering, and mathematics, for the
purpose, as he says, of attaining the knowledge of his profession.  His master, Mr. Baker,
gave him every encouragement, and from his assistance, he adds, "I must acknowledge I received
my greatest lights."  The Lord Admiral was often present at Baker's house.  Pett was importuned
to set sail with the ship when finished, but he preferred remaining at home.  The principal
reason, no doubt, that restrained him at this moment from seeking the patronage of the great,
was the care of his two sisters,[19] who, having fled from the house of their barbarous stepfather,
could find no refuge but in that of their brother Phineas. Joseph refused to receive them,
and Peter of Wapping was perhaps less able than willing to do so.

In April, 1597, Pett had the advantage of being introduced to Howard, Earl of Nottingham, then
Lord High Admiral of England. This, he says, was the first beginning of his rising.  Two years
later, Howard recommended him for employment in purveying plank and timber in Norfolk and Suffolk
for shipbuilding purposes. Pett accomplished his business satisfactorily, though he had some
malicious enemies to contend against.  In his leisure, he began to prepare models of ships,
which he rigged and finished complete.  He also proceeded with the study of mathematics.  The
beginning of the year 1600 found Pett once more out of employment; and during his enforced
idleness, which continued for six months, he seriously contemplated abandoning his profession
and attempting to gain "an honest and convenient maintenance" by joining a friend in purchasing
a caravel (a small vessel), and navigating it himself.

He was, however, prevented from undertaking this enterprise by a message which he received
from the Court, then stationed at Greenwich. The Lord High Admiral desired to see him; and
after many civil compliments, he offered him the post of keeper of the plankyard at Chatham.
Pett was only too glad to accept this offer, though the salary was small.  He shipped his furniture
on board a hoy of Rainham, and accompanied it down the Thames to the junction with the Medway.
There he escaped a great danger--one of the sea perils of the time. The mouths of navigable
rivers were still infested with pirates; and as the hoy containing Pett approached the Nore
about three o'clock in the morning, and while still dark, she came upon a Dunkirk picaroon,
full of men. Fortunately the pirate was at anchor; she weighed and gave chase, and had not
the hoy set full sail, and been impelled up the Swale by a fresh wind, Pett would have been
taken prisoner, with all his furniture.[20]

Arrived at Chatham, Pett met his brother Joseph, became reconciled to him, and ever after they
lived together as loving brethren.  At his brother's suggestion, Pett took a lease of the Manor
House, and settled there with his sisters.  He was now in the direct way to preferment. Early
in the following year (March, 1601) he succeeded to the place of assistant to the principal
master shipwright at Chatham, and undertook the repairs of Her Majesty's ship The Lion's Whelp,
and in the next year he new-built the Moon enlarging her both in length and breadth.

At the accession of James I. in 1603, Pett was commanded by the Lord High Admiral with all
possible speed to build a little vessel for the young Prince Henry, eldest son of His Majesty.
It was to be a sort of copy of the Ark Royal, which was the flagship of the Lord High Admiral
when he defeated the Spanish Armada. Pett proceeded to accomplish the order with all dispatch.
The little ship was in length by the keel 28 feet, in breadth 12 feet, and very curiously garnished
within and without with painting and carving.  After working by torch and candle light, night
and day, the ship was launched, and set sail for the Thames, with the noise of drums, trumpets,
and cannon, at the beginning of March, 1604.  After passing through a great storm at the Nore,
the vessel reached the Tower, where the King and the young Prince inspected her with delight.
She was christened Disdain by the Lord High Admiral, and Pett was appointed captain of the ship.

After his return to Chatham, Pett, at his own charge, built a small ship at Gillingham, of
300 tons, which he launched in the same year, and named the Resistance.  The ship was scarcely
out of hand, when Pett was ordered to Woolwich, to prepare the Bear and other vessels for conveying
his patron, the Lord High Admiral, as an Ambassador Extraordinary to Spain, for the purpose
of concluding peace, after a strife of more than forty years. The Resistance was hired by the
Government as a transport, and Pett was put in command.  He seems to have been married at this
time, as he mentions in his memoir that he parted with his wife and children at Chatham on
the 24th of March, 1605, and that he sailed from Queenborough on Easter Sunday.

During the voyage to Lisbon the Resistance became separated from the Ambassador's squadron,
and took refuge in Corunna.  She then set sail for Lisbon, which she reached on the 24th of
April; and afterwards for St. Lucar, on the Guadalquiver, near Seville, which she reached on
the 11th of May following.  After revisiting Corunna, "according to instructions," on the homeward
voyage, Pett directed his course for England, and reached Rye on the 26th of June, "amidst
much rain, thunder, and lightning."  In the course of the same year, his brother Joseph died,
and Phineas succeeded to his post as master shipbuilder at Chatham.  He was permitted, in conjunction
with one Henry Farvey and three others, to receive the usual reward of 5s. per ton for building
five new merchant ships,[21] most probably for East Indian commerce, now assuming large dimensions.
He was despatched by the Government to Bearwood, in Hampshire, to make a selection of timber
from the estate of the Earl of Worcester for the use of the navy, and on presenting his report
3000 tons were purchased.  What with his building of ships, his attendance on the Lord Admiral
to Spain, and his selection of timber for the Government, his hands seem to have been kept
very full during the whole of 1605.

In July, 1606, Pett received private instructions from the Lord High Admiral to have all the
King's ships "put into comely readiness" for the reception of the King of Denmark, who was
expected on a Royal visit.  "Wherein," he says, "I strove extraordinarily to express my service
for the honour of the kingdom; but by reason the time limited was short, and the business great,
we laboured night and day to effect it, which accordingly was done, to the great honour of
our sovereign king and master, and no less admiration of all strangers that were eye-witnesses
to the same."  The reception took place on the 10th of August, 1606.

Shortly after the departure of His Majesty of Denmark, four of the Royal ships--the Ark, Victory,
Golden Lion, and Swiftsure--were ordered to be dry-docked; the two last mentioned at Deptford,
under charge of Matthew Baker; and the two former at Woolwich, under that of Pett.  For greater
convenience, Pett removed his family to Woolwich.  After being elected and sworn Master of
the Company of Shipwrights, he refers in his manuscript, for the first time, to his magnificent
and original design of the Prince Royal.[22]

"After settling at Woolwich," he says, "I began a curious model for the prince my master, most
part whereof I wrought with my own hands." After finishing the model, he exhibited it to the
Lord High Admiral, and, after receiving his approval and commands, he presented it to the young
prince at Richmond.  "His Majesty (who was present) was exceedingly delighted with the sight
of the model, and passed some time in questioning the divers material things concerning it,
and demanded whether I could build the great ship in all parts like the same; for I will, says
His Majesty, compare them together when she shall be finished.  Then the Lord Admiral commanded
me to tell His Majesty the story of the Three Ravens[23] I had seen at Lisbon, in St. Vincent's
Church; which I did as well as I could, with my best expressions, though somewhat daunted at
first at His Majesty's presence, having never before spoken before any King."

Before, however, he could accomplish his purpose, Pett was overtaken by misfortunes.  His enemies,
very likely seeing with spite the favour with which he had been received by men in high position,
stirred up an agitation against him.  There may, and there very probably was, a great deal
of jobbery going on in the dockyards.  It was difficult, under the system which prevailed,
to have any proper check upon the expenditure for the repair and construction of ships.  At
all events, a commission was appointed for the purpose of inquiring into the abuses and misdemeanors
of those in office; and Pett's enemies took care that his past proceedings should be thoroughly
overhauled,--together with those of Sir Robert Mansell, then Treasurer to the Navy; Sir John
Trevor, surveyor; Sir Henry Palmer, controller; Sir Thomas Bluther, victualler; and many others.

While the commission was still sitting and holding what Pett calls their "malicious proceedings,"
he was able to lay the keel of his new great ship upon the stocks in the dock at Woolwich on
the 20th of October, 1608.  He had a clear conscience, for his hands were clean. He went on
vigorously with his work, though he knew that the inquisition against him was at its full height.
His enemies reported that he was "no artist, and that he was altogether insufficient to perform
such a service" as that of building his great ship. Nevertheless, he persevered, believing
in the goodness of his cause. Eventually, he was enabled to turn the tables upon his accusers,
and to completely justify himself in all his transactions with the king, the Lord Admiral,
and the public officers, who were privy to all his transactions.  Indeed, the result of the
enquiry was not only to cause a great trouble and expense to all the persons accused, but,
as Pett says in his Memoir, "the Government itself of that royal office was so shaken and disjoined
as brought almost ruin upon the whole Navy, and a far greater charge to his Majesty in his
yearly expense than ever was known before."[24]

In the midst of his troubles and anxieties, Pett was unexpectedly cheered with the presence
of his "Master" Prince Henry, who specially travelled out of his way from Essex to visit him
at Woolwich, to see with his own eyes what progress he was making with the great ship. After
viewing the dry dock, which had been constructed by Pett, and was one of the first, if not
the very first in England,--his Highness partook of a banquet which the shipbuilder had hastily
prepared for him in his temporary lodgings.

One of the circumstances which troubled Pett so much at this time, was the strenuous opposition
of the other shipbuilders to his plans of the great ship.  There never had been such a frightful
innovation.  The model was all wrong.  The lines were detestable.  The man who planned the
whole thing was a fool, a "cozener" of the king, and the ship, suppose it to be made, was "unfit
for any other use but a dung-boat!" This attack upon his professional character weighed very
heavily upon his mind.

He determined to put his case in a staightforward manner before the Lord High Admiral.  He
set down in writing in the briefest manner everything that he had done, and the plots that
had been hatched against him; and beseeched his lordship, for the honour of the State, and
the reputation of his office, to cause the entire matter to be thoroughly investigated "by
judicious and impartial persons."  After a conference with Pett, and an interview with his
Majesty,  the Lord High Admiral was authorised by the latter to invite the Earls of Worcester
and Suffolk to attend with him at Woolwich, and bring all the accusers of Pett's design of
the great ship before them for the purpose of examination, and to report to him as to the actual
state of affairs. Meanwhile Pett's enemies had been equally busy.  They obtained a private
warrant from the Earl of Northampton[25] to survey the work; "which being done," says Pett,
"upon return of the insufficiency of the same under their hands, and confirmation by oath,
it was resolved amongst them I should be turned out, and for ever disgraced."

But the lords appointed by the King now interfered between Pett and his adversaries.  They
first inspected the ship, and made a diligent survey of the form and manner of the work and
the goodness of the materials, and then called all the accusers before them to hear their allegations.
They were examined separately.  First, Baker the master shipbuilder was called.  He objected
to the size of the ship, to the length, breadth, depth, draught of water, height of jack, rake
before and aft, breadth of the floor, scantling of the timber, and so on.  Then another of
the objectors was called; and his evidence was so clearly in contradiction to that which had
already been given, that either one or both must be wrong.  The principal objector, Captain
Waymouth, next gave his evidence; but he was able to say nothing to any purpose, except giving
their lordships "a long, tedious discourse of proportions, measures, lines, and an infinite
rabble of idle and unprofitable speeches, clean from the matter."

The result was that their lordships reported favourably of the design of the ship, and the
progress which had already been made.

The Earl of Nottingham interposed his influence; and the King himself, accompanied by the young
Prince, went down to Woolwich, and made a personal examination.[26]  A great many witnesses
were again examined, twenty-four on one side, and twenty-seven on the other.  The King then
carefully examined the ship himself:  "the planks, the tree-nails, the workmanship, and the
cross-grained timber."  "The cross-grain," he concluded, "was in the men and not in the timber."
After all the measurements had been made and found correct, "his Majesty," says Pett, "with
a loud voice commanded the measurers to declare publicly the very truth; which when they had
delivered clearly on our side, all the whole multitude heaved up their hats, and gave a great
and loud shout and acclamation.  And then the Prince, his Highness, called with a high voice
in these words:  'Where be now these perjured fellows that dare thus abuse his Majesty with
these false accusations?  Do they not worthily deserve hanging?"'

Thus Pett triumphed over all his enemies, and was allowed to finish the great ship in his own
way.  By the middle of September 1610, the vessel was ready to be "strucken down upon her ways";
and a dozen of the choice master carpenters of his Majesty's navy came from Chatham to assist
in launching her.  The ship was decorated, gilded, draped, and garlanded; and on the 24th the
King, the Queen, and the Royal family came from the palace at Theobald's to witness the great
sight. Unfortunately, the day proved very rough; and it was little better than a neap tide.
The ship started very well, but the wind "overblew the tide"; she caught in the dock-gates,
and settled hard upon the ground, so that there was no possibility of launching her that day.

This was a great disappointment.  The King retired to the palace at Greenwich, though the Prince
lingered behind.  When he left, he promised to return by midnight, after which it was proposed
to make another effort to set the ship afloat.  When the time arrived, the Prince again made
his appearance, and joined the Lord High Admiral, and the principal naval officials.  It was
bright moonshine.  After midnight the rain began to fall, and the wind to blow from the southwest.
But about two o'clock, an hour before high water, the word was given to set all taut, and the
ship went away without any straining of screws and tackles, till she came clear afloat into
the midst of the Thames.  The Prince was aboard, and amidst the blast of trumpets and expressions
of joy, he performed the ceremony of drinking from the great standing cup, and throwing the
rest of the wine towards the half-deck, and christening the ship by the name of the Prince
Royal.[27]

The dimensions of the ship may be briefly described.  Her keel was 114 feet long, and her cross-beam
44 feet.  She was of 1400 tons burthen, and carried 64 pieces of great ordnance.  She was the
largest ship that had yet been constructed in England.

