QUO VADIS

A NARRATIVE OF THE TIME OF NERO

by Henryk Sienkiewicz

Translated from the Polish by Jeremiah Curtin

     TO AUGUSTE COMTE,

     Of San Francisco, Cal.,

     MY DEAR FRIEND AND CLASSMATE, I BEG TO DEDICATE THIS VOLUME.

     JEREMIAH CURTIN

INTRODUCTORY

IN the trilogy "With Fire and Sword," "The Deluge," and "Pan Michael," Sienkiewicz has given
pictures of a great and decisive epoch in modern history. The results of the struggle begun
under Bogdan Hmelnitski have been felt for more than two centuries, and they are growing daily
in importance. The Russia which rose out of that struggle has become a power not only of European
but of world-wide significance, and, to all human seeming, she is yet in an early stage of
her career.

In "Quo Vadis" the author gives us pictures of opening scenes in the conflict of moral ideas
with the Roman Empire,--a conflict from which Christianity issued as the leading force in history.

The Slays are not so well known to Western Europe or to us as they are sure to be in the near
future; hence the trilogy, with all its popularity and merit, is not appreciated yet as it will be.

The conflict described in "Quo Vadis" is of supreme interest to a vast number of persons reading
English; and this book will rouse, I think, more attention at first than anything written by
Sienkiewicz hitherto.

JEREMIAH CURTIN

ILOM, NORTHERN GUATEMALA,

June, 1896

QUO VADIS

Quo Vadis A Narrative of the Time of Nero

Chapter I

PETRONIUS woke only about midday, and as usual greatly wearied. The evening before he had been
at one of Nero's feasts, which was prolonged till late at night. For some time his health had
been failing. He said himself that he woke up benumbed, as it were, and without power of collecting
his thoughts. But the morning bath and careful kneading of the body by trained slaves hastened
gradually the course of his slothful blood, roused him, quickened him, restored his strength,
so that he issued from the elæothesium, that is, the last division of the bath, as if he had
risen from the dead, with eyes gleaming from wit and gladness, rejuvenated, filled with life,
exquisite, so unapproachable that Otho himself could not compare with him, and was really that
which he had been called,--arbiter elegantiarum.

He visited the public baths rarely, only when some rhetor happened there who roused admiration
and who was spoken of in the city, or when in the ephebias there were combats of exceptional
interest. Moreover, he had in his own "insula" private baths which Celer, the famous contemporary
of Severus, had extended for him, reconstructed and arranged with such uncommon taste that
Nero himself acknowledged their excellence over those of the Emperor, though the imperial baths
were more extensive and finished with incomparably greater luxury.

After that feast, at which he was bored by the jesting of Vatinius with Nero, Lucan, and Seneca,
he took part in a diatribe as to whether woman has a soul. Rising late, he used, as was his
custom, the baths. Two enormous balneatores laid him on a cypress table covered with snow-white
Egyptian byssus, and with hands dipped in perfumed olive oil began to rub his shapely body;
and he waited with closed eyes till the heat of the laconicum and the heat of their hands passed
through him and expelled weariness.

But after a certain time he spoke, and opened his eyes; he inquired about the weather, and
then about gems which the jeweller Idomeneus had promised to send him for examination that
day. It appeared that the weather was beautiful, with a light breeze from the Alban hills,
and that the gems had not been brought. Petronius closed his eyes again, and had given command
to bear him to the tepidarium, when from behind the curtain the nomenclator looked in, announcing
that young Marcus Vinicius, recently returned from Asia Minor, had come to visit him.

Petronius ordered to admit the guest to the tepidarium, to which he was borne himself. Vinicius
was the son of his oldest sister, who years before had married Marcus Vinicius, a man of consular
dignity from the time of Tiberius. The young man was serving then under Corbulo against the
Parthians, and at the close of the war had returned to the city. Petronius had for him a certain
weakness bordering on attachment, for Marcus was beautiful and athletic, a young man who knew
how to preserve a certain aesthetic measure in his profligacy; this, Petronius prized above
everything.

"A greeting to Petronius," said the young man, entering the tepidarium with a springy step.
"May all the gods grant thee success, but especially Asklepios and Kypris, for under their
double protection nothing evil can meet one."

"I greet thee in Rome, and may thy rest be sweet after war," replied Petronius, extending his
hand from between the folds of soft karbas stuff in which he was wrapped. "What's to be heard
in Armenia; or since thou wert in Asia, didst thou not stumble into Bithynia?"

Petronius on a time had been proconsul in Bithynia, and, what is more, he had governed with
energy and justice. This was a marvellous contrast in the character of a man noted for effeminacy
and love of luxury; hence he was fond of mentioning those times, as they were a proof of what
he had been, and of what he might have become had it pleased him.

"I happened to visit Heraklea," answered Vinicius. "Corbulo sent me there with an order to
assemble reinforcements."

"Ah, Heraklea! I knew at Heraklea a certain maiden from Colchis, for whom I would have given
all the divorced women of this city, not excluding Poppæa. But these are old stories. Tell
me now, rather, what is to be heard from the Parthian boundary. It is true that they weary
me every Vologeses of them, and Tiridates and Tigranes,--those barbarians who, as young Arulenus
insists, walk on all fours at home, and pretend to be human only when in our presence. But
now people in Rome speak much of them, if only for the reason that it is dangerous to speak
of aught else."

"The war is going badly, and but for Corbulo might be turned to defeat."

"Corbulo! by Bacchus! a real god of war, a genuine Mars, a great leader, at the same time quick-tempered,
honest, and dull. I love him, even for this,--that Nero is afraid of him."

"Corbulo is not a dull man."

"Perhaps thou art right, but for that matter it is all one. Dulness, as Pyrrho says, is in
no way worse than wisdom, and differs from it in nothing."

Vinicius began to talk of the war; but when Petronius closed his eyes again, the young man,
seeing his uncle's tired and somewhat emaciated face, changed the conversation, and inquired
with a certain interest about his health.

Petronius opened his eyes again.

Health!--No. He did not feel well. He had not gone so far yet, it is true, as young Sissena,
who had lost sensation to such a degree that when he was brought to the bath in the morning
he inquired, "Am I sitting?" But he was not well. Vinicius had just committed him to the care
of Asklepios and Kypris. But he, Petronius, did not believe in Asklepios. It was not known
even whose son that Asklepios was, the son of Arsinoe or Koronis; and if the mother was doubtful,
what was to be said of the father? Who, in that time, could be sure who his own father was?

Hereupon Petronius began to laugh; then he continued,--"Two years ago, it is true, I sent to
Epidaurus three dozen live blackbirds and a goblet of gold; but dost thou know why? I said
to myself, 'Whether this helps or not, it will do me no harm.' Though people make offerings
to the gods yet, I believe that all think as I do,--all, with the exception, perhaps, of mule-drivers
hired at the Porta Capena by travellers. Besides Asklepios, I have had dealings with sons of
Asklepios. When I was troubled a little last year in the bladder, they performed an incubation
for me. I saw that they were tricksters, but I said to myself: 'What harm! The world stands
on deceit, and life is an illusion. The soul is an illusion too. But one must have reason enough
to distinguish pleasant from painful illusions.' I shall give command to burn in my hypocaustum,
cedar-wood sprinkled with ambergris, for during life I prefer perfumes to stenches. As to Kypris,
to whom thou hast also confided me, I have known her guardianship to the extent that I have
twinges in my right foot. But as to the rest she is a good goddess! I suppose that thou wilt
bear sooner or later white doves to her altar."

"True," answered Vinicius. "The arrows of the Parthians have not reached my body, but a dart
of Amor has struck me--unexpectedly, a few stadia from a gate of this city."

"By the white knees of the Graces! thou wilt tell me of this at a leisure hour."

"I have come purposely to get thy advice," answered Marcus.

But at that moment the epilatores came, and occupied themselves with Petronius. Marcus, throwing
aside his tunic, entered a bath of tepid water, for Petronius invited him to a plunge bath.

"Ah, I have not even asked whether thy feeling is reciprocated," said Petronius, looking at
the youthful body of Marcus, which was as if cut out of marble. "Had Lysippos seen thee, thou
wouldst be ornamenting now the gate leading to the Palatine, as a statue of Hercules in youth."

The young man smiled with satisfaction, and began to sink in the bath, splashing warm water
abundantly on the mosaic which represented Hera at the moment when she was imploring Sleep
to lull Zeus to rest. Petronius looked at him with the satisfied eye of an artist.

When Vinicius had finished and yielded himself in turn to the epilatores, a lector came in
with a bronze tube at his breast and rolls of paper in the tube.

"Dost wish to listen?" asked Petronius.

"If it is thy creation, gladly!" answered the young tribune; "if not, I prefer conversation.
Poets seize people at present on every street corner."

"Of course they do. Thou wilt not pass any basilica, bath, library, or book-shop without seeing
a poet gesticulating like a monkey. Agrippa, on coming here from the East, mistook them for
madmen. And it is just such a time now. Cæsar writes verses; hence all follow in his steps.
Only it is not permitted to write better verses than Cæsar, and for that reason I fear a little
for Lucan. But I write prose, with which, however, I do not honor myself or others. What the
lector has to read are codicilli of that poor Fabricius Veiento."

"Why 'poor'?"

"Because it has been communicated to him that he must dwell in Odyssa and not return to his
domestic hearth till he receives a new command. That Odyssey will be easier for him than for
Ulysses, since his wife is no Penelope. I need not tell thee, for that matter, that he acted
stupidly. But here no one takes things otherwise than superficially. His is rather a wretched
and dull little book, which people have begun to read passionately only when the author is
banished. Now one hears on every side, 'Scandala! scandala!' and it may be that Veiento invented
some things; but I, who know the city, know our patres and our women, assure thee that it is
all paler than reality. Meanwhile every man is searching in the book,--for himself with alarm,
for his acquaintances with delight. At the book-shop of Avirnus a hundred copyists are writing
at dictation, and its success is assured."

"Are not thy affairs in it?"

"They are; but the author is mistaken, for I am at once worse and less flat than he represents
me. Seest thou we have lost long since the feeling of what is worthy or unworthy,--and to me
even it seems that in real truth there is no difference between them, though Seneca, Musonius,
and Trasca pretend that they see it. To me it is all one! By Hercules, I say what I think!
I have preserved loftiness, however, because I know what is deformed and what is beautiful;
but our poet, Bronzebeard, for example, the charioteer, the singer, the actor, does not understand
this."

"I am sorry, however, for Fabricius! He is a good companion."

"Vanity ruined the man. Every one suspected him, no one knew certainly; but he could not contain
himself, and told the secret on all sides in confidence. Hast heard the history of Rufinus?"

"No."

"Then come to the frigidarium to cool; there I will tell thee."

They passed to the frigidarium, in the middle of which played a fountain of bright rose-color,
emitting the odor of violets. There they sat in niches which were covered with velvet, and
began to cool themselves. Silence reigned for a time. Vinicius looked awhile thoughtfully at
a bronze faun which, bending over the arm of a nymph, was seeking her lips eagerly with his lips.

"He is right," said the young man. "That is what is best in life."

"More or less! But besides this thou lovest war, for which I have no liking, since under tents
one's finger-nails break and cease to be rosy. For that matter, every man has his preferences.
Bronzebeard loves song, especially his own; and old Scaurus his Corinthian vase, which stands
near his bed at night, and which he kisses when he cannot sleep. He has kissed the edge off
already. Tell me, dost thou not write verses?"

"No; I have never composed a single hexameter."

"And dost thou not play on the lute and sing?"

"No."

"And dost thou drive a chariot?"

"I tried once in Antioch, but unsuccessfully."

"Then I am at rest concerning thee. And to what party in the hippodrome dost thou belong?"

"To the Greens."

"Now I am perfectly at rest, especially since thou hast a large property indeed, though thou
art not so rich as Pallas or Seneca. For seest thou, with us at present it is well to write
verses, to sing to a lute, to declaim, and to compete in the Circus; but better, and especially
safer, not to write verses, not to play, not to sing, and not to compete in the Circus. Best
of all, is it to know how to admire when Bronzebeard admires. Thou art a comely young man;
hence Poppæa may fall in love with thee. This is thy only peril. But no, she is too experienced;
she cares for something else. She has had enough of love with her two husbands; with the third
she has other views. Dost thou know that that stupid Otho loves her yet to distraction? He
walks on the cliffs of Spain, and sighs; he has so lost his former habits, and so ceased to
care for his person, that three hours each day suffice him to dress his hair. Who could have
expected this of Otho?"

"I understand him," answered Vinicius; "but in his place I should have done something else."

"What, namely?"

"I should have enrolled faithful legions of mountaineers of that country. They are good soldiers,--those
Iberians."

"Vinicius! Vinicius! I almost wish to tell thee that thou wouldst not have been capable of
that. And knowest why? Such things are done, but they are not mentioned even conditionally.
As to me, in his place, I should have laughed at Poppæa, laughed at Bronzebeard, and formed
for myself legions, not of Iberian men, however, but Iberian women. And what is more, I should
have written epigrams which I should not have read to any one,--not like that poor Rufinus."

"Thou wert to tell me his history."

"I will tell it in the unctorium."

But in the unctorium the attention of Vinicius was turned to other objects; namely, to wonderful
slave women who were waiting for the bathers. Two of them, Africans, resembling noble statues
of ebony, began to anoint their bodies with delicate perfumes from Arabia; others, Phrygians,
skilled in hairdressing, held in their hands, which were bending and flexible as serpents,
combs and mirrors of polished steel; two Grecian maidens from Kos, who were simply like deities,
waited as vestiplicæ, till the moment should come to put statuesque folds in the togas of the
lords.

"By the cloud-scattering Zeus!" said Marcus Vinicius, "what a choice thou hast!"

"I prefer choice to numbers," answered Petronius. "My whole 'familia' [household servants]
in Rome does not exceed four hundred, and I judge that for personal attendance only upstarts
need a greater number of people."

"More beautiful bodies even Bronzebeard does not possess," said Vinicius, distending his nostrils.

"Thou art my relative," answered Petronius, with a certain friendly indifference, "and I am
neither so misanthropic as Barsus nor such a pedant as Aulus Plautius."

When Vinicius heard this last name, he forgot the maidens from Kos for a moment, and, raising
his head vivaciously, inquired,--"Whence did Aulus Plautius come to thy mind? Dost thou know
that after I had disjointed my arm outside the city, I passed a number of days in his house?
It happened that Plautius came up at the moment when the accident happened, and, seeing that
I was suffering greatly, he took me to his house; there a slave of his, the physician Merion,
restored me to health. I wished to speak with thee touching this very matter."

"Why? Is it because thou hast fallen in love with Pomponia perchance? In that case I pity thee;
she is not young, and she is virtuous! I cannot imagine a worse combination. Brr!"

"Not with Pomponia--eheu!" answered Vinicius.

"With whom, then?"

"If I knew myself with whom? But I do not know to a certainty her name even,--Lygia or Callina?
They call her Lygia in the house, for she comes of the Lygian nation; but she has her own barbarian
name, Callina. It is a wonderful house,--that of those Plautiuses. There are many people in
it; but it is quiet there as in the groves of Subiacum. For a number of days I did not know
that a divinity dwelt in the house. Once about daybreak I saw her bathing in the garden fountain;
and I swear to thee by that foam from which Aphrodite rose, that the rays of the dawn passed
right through her body. I thought that when the sun rose she would vanish before me in the
light, as the twilight of morning does. Since then, I have seen her twice; and since then,
too, I know not what rest is, I know not what other desires are, I have no wish to know what
the city can give me. I want neither women, nor gold, nor Corinthian bronze, nor amber, nor
pearls, nor wine, nor feasts; I want only Lygia. I am yearning for her, in sincerity I tell
thee, Petronius, as that Dream who is imaged on the Mosaic of thy tepidarium yearned for Paisythea,--whole
days and night do I yearn."

"If she is a slave, then purchase her."

"She is not a slave."

"What is she? A freed woman of Plautius?"

"Never having been a slave, she could not be a freed woman."

"Who is she?"

"I know not,--a king's daughter, or something of that sort."

"Thou dost rouse my curiosity, Vinicius."

"But if thou wish to listen, I will satisfy thy curiosity straightway. Her story is not a long
one. Thou art acquainted, perhaps personally, with Vannius, king of the Suevi, who, expelled
from his country, spent a long time here in Rome, and became even famous for his skilful play
with dice, and his good driving of chariots. Drusus put him on the throne again. Vannius, who
was really a strong man, ruled well at first, and warred with success; afterward, however,
he began to skin not only his neighbors, but his own Suevi, too much. Thereupon Vangio and
Sido, two sister's sons of his, and the sons of Vibilius, king of the Hermunduri, determined
to force him to Rome again--to try his luck there at dice."

"I remember; that is of recent Claudian times."

"Yes! War broke out. Vannius summoned to his aid the Yazygi; his dear nephews called in the
Lygians, who, hearing of the riches of Vannius, and enticed by the hope of booty, came in such
numbers that Cæsar himself, Claudius, began to fear for the safety of the boundary. Claudius
did not wish to interfere in a war among barbarians, but he wrote to Atelius Hister, who commanded
the legions of the Danube, to turn a watchful eye on the course of the war, and not permit
them to disturb our peace. Hister required, then, of the Lygians a promise not to cross the
boundary; to this they not only agreed, but gave hostages, among whom were the wife and daughter
of their leader. It is known to thee that barbarians take their wives and children to war with
them. My Lygia is the daughter of that leader."

"Whence dost thou know all this?"

"Aulus Plautius told it himself. The Lygians did not cross the boundary, indeed; but barbarians
come and go like a tempest. So did the Lygians vanish with their wild-ox horns on their heads.
They killed Vannius's Suevi and Yazygi; but their own king fell. They disappeared with their
booty then, and the hostages remained in Hister's hands. The mother died soon after, and Hister,
not knowing what to do with the daughter, sent her to Pomponius, the governor of all Germany.
He, at the close of the war with the Catti, returned to Rome, where Claudius, as is known to
thee, permitted him to have a triumph. The maiden on that occasion walked after the car of
the conqueror; but, at the end of the solemnity,--since hostages cannot be considered captives,
and since Pomponius did not know what to do with her definitely--he gave her to his sister
Pomponia Græcina, the wife of Plautius. In that house where all--beginning with the masters
and ending with the poultry in the hen-house--are virtuous, that maiden grew up as virtuous,
alas! as Græcina herself, and so beautiful that even Poppæa, if near her, would seem like an
autumn fig near an apple of the Hesperides."

"And what?"

"And I repeat to thee that from the moment when I saw how the sun-rays at that fountain passed
through her body, I fell in love to distraction."

"She is as transparent as a lamprey eel, then, or a youthful sardine?"

"Jest not, Petronius; but if the freedom with which I speak of my desire misleads thee, know
this,--that bright garments frequently cover deep wounds. I must tell thee, too, that, while
returning from Asia, I slept one night in the temple of Mopsus to have a prophetic dream. Well,
Mopsus appeared in a dream to me, and declared that, through love, a great change in my life
would take place."

"Pliny declares, as I hear, that he does not believe in the gods, but he believes in dreams;
and perhaps he is right. My jests do not prevent me from thinking at times that in truth there
is only one deity, eternal, creative, all-powerful, Venus Genetrix. She brings souls together;
she unites bodies and things. Eros called the world out of chaos. Whether he did well is another
question; but, since he did so, we should recognize his might, though we are free not to bless it."

"Alas! Petronius, it is easier to find philosophy in the world than wise counsel."

"Tell me, what is thy wish specially?"

"I wish to have Lygia. I wish that these arms of mine, which now embrace only air, might embrace
Lygia and press her to my bosom. I wish to breathe with her breath. Were she a slave, I would
give Aulus for her one hundred maidens with feet whitened with lime as a sign that they were
exhibited on sale for the first time. I wish to have her in my house till my head is as white
as the top of Soracte in winter."

"She is not a slave, but she belongs to the 'family' of Plautius; and since she is a deserted
maiden, she may be considered an 'alumna.' Plautius might yield her to thee if he wished."

"Then it seems that thou knowest not Pomponia Græcina. Both have become as much attached to
her as if she were their own daughter."

"Pomponia I know,--a real cypress. If she were not the wife of Aulus, she might be engaged
as a mourner. Since the death of Julius she has not thrown aside dark robes; and in general
she looks as if, while still alive, she were walking on the asphodel meadow. She is, moreover,
a 'one-man woman'; hence, among our ladies of four and five divorces, she is straightway a
phoenix. But! hast thou heard that in Upper Egypt the phoenix has just been hatched out, as
'tis said?--an event which happens not oftener than once in five centuries."

"Petronius! Petronius! Let us talk of the phoenix some other time."

"What shall I tell thee, my Marcus? I know Aulus Plautius, who, though he blames my mode of
life, has for me a certain weakness, and even respects me, perhaps, more than others, for he
knows that I have never been an informer like Domitius Afer, Tigellinus, and a whole rabble
of Ahenobarbus's intimates [Nero's name was originally L. Domitius Ahenobarbus]. Without pretending
to be a stoic, I have been offended more than once at acts of Nero, which Seneca and Burrus
looked at through their fingers. If it is thy thought that I might do something for thee with
Aulus, I am at thy command."

"I judge that thou hast the power. Thou hast influence over him; and, besides, thy mind possesses
inexhaustible resources. If thou wert to survey the position and speak with Plautius."

"Thou hast too great an idea of my influence and wit; but if that is the only question, I will
talk with Plautius as soon as they return to the city."

"They returned two days since."

"In that case let us go to the triclinium, where a meal is now ready, and when we have refreshed
ourselves, let us give command to bear us to Plautius."

"Thou hast ever been kind to me," answered Vinicius, with vivacity; "but now I shall give command
to rear thy statue among my lares,--just such a beauty as this one,--and I will place offerings
before it."

Then he turned toward the statues which ornamented one entire wall of the perfumed chamber,
and pointing to the one which represented Petronius as Hermes with a staff in his hand, he
added,--"By the light of Helios! if the 'godlike' Alexander resembled thee, I do not wonder
at Helen."

And in that exclamation there was as much sincerity as flattery; for Petronius, though older
and less athletic, was more beautiful than even Vinicius. The women of Rome admired not only
his pliant mind and his taste, which gained for him the title Arbiter elegantiæ, but also his
body. This admiration was evident even on the faces of those maidens from Kos who were arranging
the folds of his toga; and one of whom, whose name was Eunice, loving him in secret, looked
him in the eyes with submission and rapture. But he did not even notice this; and, smiling
at Vinicius, he quoted in answer an expression of Seneca about woman,--Animal impudens, etc.
And then, placing an arm on the shoulders of his nephew, he conducted him to the triclinium.

In the unctorium the two Grecian maidens, the Phrygians, and the two Ethiopians began to put
away the vessels with perfumes. But at that moment, and beyond the curtain of the frigidarium,
appeared the heads of the balneatores, and a low "Psst!" was heard. At that call one of the
Grecians, the Phrygians, and the Ethiopians sprang up quickly, and vanished in a twinkle behind
the curtain. In the baths began a moment of license which the inspector did not prevent, for
he took frequent part in such frolics himself. Petronius suspected that they took place; but,
as a prudent man, and one who did not like to punish, he looked at them through his fingers.

In the unctorium only Eunice remained. She listened for a short time to the voices and laughter
which retreated in the direction of the laconicum. At last she took the stool inlaid with amber
and ivory, on which Petronius had been sitting a short time before, and put it carefully at
his statue. The unctorium was full of sunlight and the hues which came from the many-colored
marbles with which the wall was faced. Eunice stood on the stool, and, finding herself at the
level of the statue, cast her arms suddenly around its neck; then, throwing back her golden
hair, and pressing her rosy body to the white marble, she pressed her lips with ecstasy to
the cold lips of Petronius.

Chapter II

After a refreshment, which was called the morning meal and to which the two friends sat down
at an hour when common mortals were already long past their midday prandium, Petronius proposed
a light doze. According to him, it was too early for visits yet. "There are, it is true," said
he, "people who begin to visit their acquaintances about sunrise, thinking that custom an old
Roman one, but I look on this as barbarous. The afternoon hours are most proper,--not earlier,
however, than that one when the sun passes to the side of Jove's temple on the Capitol and
begins to look slantwise on the Forum. In autumn it is still hot, and people are glad to sleep
after eating. At the same time it is pleasant to hear the noise of the fountain in the atrium,
and, after the obligatory thousand steps, to doze in the red light which filters in through
the purple half-drawn velarium."

Vinicius recognized the justice of these words; and the two men began to walk, speaking in
a careless manner of what was to be heard on the Palatine and in the city, and philosophizing
a little upon life. Petronius withdrew then to the cubiculum, but did not sleep long. In half
an hour he came out, and, having given command to bring verbena, he inhaled the perfume and
rubbed his hands and temples with it.

"Thou wilt not believe," said he, "how it enlivens and freshens one. Now I am ready."

The litter was waiting long since; hence they took their places, and Petronius gave command
to bear them to the Vicus Patricius, to the house of Aulus. Petronius's "insula" lay on the
southern slope of the Palatine, near the so-called Carinæ; their nearest way, therefore, was
below the Forum; but since Petronius wished to step in on the way to see the jeweller Idomeneus,
he gave the direction to carry them along the Vicus Apollinis and the Forum in the direction
of the Vicus Sceleratus, on the corner of which were many tabernæ of every kind.

Gigantic Africans bore the litter and moved on, preceded by slaves called pedisequii. Petronius,
after some time, raised to his nostrils in silence his palm odorous with verbena, and seemed
to be meditating on something.

"It occurs to me," said he after a while, "that if thy forest goddess is not a slave she might
leave the house of Plautius, and transfer herself to thine. Thou wouldst surround her with
love and cover her with wealth, as I do my adored Chrysothemis, of whom, speaking between us,
I have quite as nearly enough as she has of me."

Marcus shook his head.

"No?" inquired Petronius. "In the worst event, the case would be left with Cæsar, and thou
mayst be certain that, thanks even to my influence, our Bronzebeard would be on thy side."

"Thou knowest not Lygia," replied Vinicius.

"Then permit me to ask if thou know her otherwise than by sight? Hast spoken with her? hast
confessed thy love to her?"

