From Croissanville to Caen the road passes through a dead flat, almost wholly consisting of
uninclosed corn-fields, extending in all directions, with unvaried dull monotony, as far as
the eye can reach. Buck-wheat is cultivated in a large proportion of them: the inhabitants
prepare a kind of cake from this grain, of which they are very fond, and which is said to be
wholesome. Tradition, founded principally upon the French name of this plant, sarrazin, has
given rise to a general belief, that buck-wheat was introduced into France by the Moors; but
this opinion has, of late, been ably combated. The plant is not to be found in Arabia, Spain,
or Sicily; the countries more particularly inhabited by Mahometans; and in Brittany, it still
passes by the Celtic appellation, had-razin, signifying red-corn, of which words sarrazin may
fairly be regarded a corruption, as buck-wheat, in our own tongue, ought unquestionably to
be written beech-wheat; a term synonymous to what it is called in Latin and German. The present
name may well appear inexplicable, to those who are unacquainted with the Anglo-Saxon and its
cognate dialects.

In the midst of this level country, in which even apple-trees are scarce, stands the ancient
capital of Lower Normandy, extending from east to west in so long a line, that on our approach
it appeared to cover as much ground as Rouen, which is in fact double its size.--From a distance,
the view of Caen is grand; not only from the apparent magnitude of the town, but from the numerous
spires and towers, that, rising from every part of it, give it an air of great importance.
Those of the abbeys of St. Stephen and the Trinity, at opposite extremities, constitute the
principal features in the view.--The same favorable impressions continue when you enter the
town. The streets are wide, and the houses of stone; and a stone city is a pleasing sight to
eyes long accustomed to the wooden buildings of Rouen, Bernay, and Lisieux.--Besides, there
is a certain degree of regularity in the construction of the buildings, and some care is taken
in keeping them clean.--Lace-making is the principal occupation of females of the lower class
in Caen and the neighborhood; the streets, as we passed along, were lined almost uninterruptedly
on either side, with a row of lace-makers; and boys were not uncommonly working among the women.
It is calculated that not fewer than twenty thousand individuals, of all ages, from ten or
twelve years old and upwards, are thus employed; and the annual produce of their labor is estimated
at one hundred and seventy thousand pounds sterling. Caen lace is in high estimation for its
beauty and quality, and is exported in considerable quantities.

The present population of Caen amounts to about thirty-one thousand individuals. The town,
no longer the capital of Lower Normandy, is still equally distinguished as the capital of the
department of the Calvados. The prefect resides here; and the royal court of Caen comprises
in its jurisdiction, not only the department more especially appertaining to it, but also those
of the Manche and the Orne.--The situation of the town, though at the confluence of the Orne
and the Odon, is not such as can be regarded favorable to extensive trade. The united rivers
form a stream, which, though navigable at very high tides for vessels of two hundred tons burthen,
will, on other occasions, admit only of much smaller ones; while the channel, nearer to its
mouth, is obstructed by rocks that render the navigation difficult and dangerous. Many plans
have been projected and attempted for the purpose of improving and enlarging the harbor, but
little or no progress has yet been made. Vauban long since pointed out the mouth of the Orne
as singularly well adapted for a naval station; and Napoléon, in pursuance of this idea, actually
commenced the excavation of a basin under the walls of the town, and intended to deepen the
bed of the river, thinking it best to make a beginning in this direction. All idea, however,
of prosecuting such a plan is for the present abandoned.--Other engineers have proposed the
junction of the Orne with the Loire by means of a canal, which would be of the greatest importance
to France, not only by facilitating internal commerce, but by saving her vessels the necessity
of coasting Capes Finisterre, and la Hogue, and thus enabling them to avoid a navigation, which
is at all times dangerous, and in case of war peculiarly exposed.

For minor purposes, however, for mills and manufactories of different kinds, Caen is certainly
well situated; being in almost every direction intersected with streams, owing to the repeated
ramifications of the Odon, some of which are artificial, and of as early a date as the eleventh
century. The same circumstance contributes materially to the pleasantness of the town; for
the banks of the river are in many places formed into walks, and crowned by avenues of noble trees.

The grand cours at Caen is almost as fine a promenade as that at Rouen. On Sunday evening it
was completely crowded. The scene was full of life and gaiety, and very varied. All the females
of the lower rank, and many of the higher orders, were dressed in the costume of the country,
which commonly consists of a scarlet gown and deep-blue apron, or vice versâ. Their hair, which
is usually powdered, is combed entirely back from every part of their faces, and tucked up
behind. The snow-white cap which covers it is beautifully plaited, and has longer lappets than
in the Pays de Caux. Mr. Cotman sketched the coiffure of the chamber-maid, at the Hôtel d'Espagne,
in grand costume, and I send his drawing to you.--The men dress like the English; but do not
therefore fancy that you or I should have any chance of being mistaken for natives, even if
we did not betray ourselves by our accent. Here, as every where else, our countrymen are infallibly
known: their careless slouching gait is sure to mark them; and the police keep a watchful eye
upon them. Caen is at present frequented by the English: those indeed, who, like the Virgilian
steeds, "stare loco nesciunt," seldom shew themselves in Lower Normandy; but above thirty British
families have taken up their residence in this town: they have been induced to do so principally
by the cheapness of living, and by the advantages held out for the education of their children.
A friend of mine, who is of the number of temporary inhabitants, occupies the best house in
the place, formerly the residence of the Duc d'Aumale; and for this, with the garden, and offices,
and furniture of all kinds, except linen and plate, he pays only nine pounds a month. For a
still larger house in the country, including an orchard and garden, containing three acres,
well stocked with fruit-trees, he is asked sixty pounds from this time to Christmas. But, cheap
as this appears, the expence of living at Coutances, or at Bayeux, or Valognes, is very much less.

Were I obliged to seek myself a residence beyond the limits of our own country, I never saw
a place which I should prefer to Caen. I should not be tempted to look much farther before I said,

    "Sis meæ sedes utinam senectæ:"--

The historical recollections that are called forth at almost every turn, would probably have
some influence in determining my choice; the noble specimens of ancient architecture which
happily remain, unscathed by wars and Calvinists and revolutions, might possibly have more;
but the literary resources which the town affords, the pleasant society with which it abounds,
and, above all, the amiable character of its inhabitants, would be my great attraction.--At
present, indeed, we have not been here sufficiently long to say much upon the subject of society
from our own experience; but the testimony we receive from all quarters is uniform in this
point, and the civilities already shewn us, are of a nature to cause the most agreeable prepossessions.
It is not our intention to be hurried at Caen; and I shall therefore reserve to my future letters
any remarks upon its history and its antiquities. To a traveller who is desirous of information,
the town is calculated to furnish abundant materials.

(Caen, August, 1818.)

France does not abound in topographical writers; but the history and antiquities of Caen have
been illustrated with singular ability, by men to whom the town gave birth, and who have treated
their subject with equal research and fidelity--these are Charles de Bourgueville, commonly
called the Seigneur de Bras, and the learned Huet, Bishop of Avranches.

De Bourgueville was a magistrate of Caen, where he resided during almost the whole of the sixteenth
century. The religious wars were then raging; and he relates, in a most entertaining and artless
manner, the history of the events of which he was an eye-witness. His work, as is justly observed
by Huet, is a treasure, that has preserved the recollection of a great variety of the most
curious details, which would otherwise have been neglected and forgotten. Every page of it
is stamped with the character of the author--frankness, simplicity, and uprightness. It abounds
in sound morality, sage maxims, and proofs of excellent principles in religion and politics;
and, if the writer occasionally carries his naïveté to excess, it is to be recollected that
the book was published when he was in his eighty-fifth year, a period of life when indulgence
may reasonably be claimed. He died four years subsequently, in 1593.--In Huet's work, the materials
are selected with more skill, and are digested with more talent. The author brought to his
task a mind well stored with the learning requisite for the purpose, and employed it with judgment.
But he has confined himself, almost wholly, to the description of the town; and the consequence
is, that while the bishop's is the work most commonly referred to, the magistrate's is that
which is most generally read. The dedication of the former to the town of Caen, does honor
to the feelings of the writer: the portrait of the latter, prefixed to his volume, and encircled
with his quaint motto, "L'heur de grace use l'oubli," itself an anagram upon his name, bespeaks
and insures the good will of the reader.

The origin of Caen is uncertain.--Its foundation has been alternately ascribed to Phoenicians,
Romans, Gauls, Saxons, and Normans. The earliest historical fact connected with the town, is
recorded in an old chronicle of Normandy[71], written in 1487, by William de Talleur, of Rouen.
The author, in speaking of the meeting between Louis d'Outremer, King of France, and Richard
Ist, Duke of Normandy, about the year 945, enumerates Caen among the good towns of the province.
Upon this, Huet observes that, supposing Caen to have been at that time only recently founded,
it must have acquired importance with much rapidity; for, in the charter, by which Richard
IIIrd, Duke of Normandy, granted a dowery to Adela, daughter of Robert, King of France, whom
he married in 1026, Caen is not only stated as one of the portions of the dower, but its churches,
its market, its custom-house, its quay, and its various appurtenances are expressly mentioned;
and two hundred years afterwards, Brito in his Philippiad, puts Caen in competition with Paris,

   "Villa potens, opulenta situ, spatiosa, decora,
    Fluminibus, pratis, et agrorum fertilitate,
    Merciferasque rates portu capiente marino,
    Seque tot ecclesiis, domibus et civibus ornans,
    Ut se Parisio vix annuat esse minorem."--

Caen is designated in Duke Richard's charter, by the appellation of "in Bajocensi comitatu
villa quæ dicitur Cathim, super fluvium Olnæ."--From Cathim, came Cahem; and Cahem, in process
of time, was gradually softened into Caen. The elision that took place in the first instance,
is of a similar nature to that by which the Italian words padre and madre, have been converted
into père and mère; and the alteration in the latter case continued to be indicated by the
diæresis, which, till lately, separated the two adjoining vowels.--Towards the latter part
of the eleventh century, Caen is frequently mentioned by the monkish historians, in whose Latin,
the town is styled Cadomus or Cadomum.--And here ingenious etymologists have found a wide field
for conjecture: Cadomus, says one, was undoubtedly founded by Cadmus; another, who hesitates
at a Phoenician antiquity, grasps with greater eagerness at a Roman etymon, and maintains that
Cadomus is a corruption from Caii domus, fully and sufficiently proving that the town was built
by Julius Cæsar.

Robert Wace states, in his Roman de Rou, that, at the time immediately previous to the conquest
of England, Caen was an open town.--

   "Encore ert Caen sans Châtel,
    N'y avoit mur, ny quesnel."--

And Wace is a competent witness; for he lived during the reign of Henry Ist, to whom he dedicated
his poem. Philip de Valois, in 1346, allowed the citizens to surround the town with ditches,
walls, and gates. This permission was granted by the king, on the application of the inhabitants,
Caen, as they then complained, being still open and unfortified. Hence, the fortifications
have been considered to be the work of the fourteenth century, and, generally speaking, they
were unquestionably, of that time; but it is equally certain, that a portion was erected long
before.

A proof of the antiquity of the fortifications may perhaps be found in the name of the tower
called la Tour Guillaume le Roi, which stands immediately behind St. Peter's, and was intended
to protect the river at the extremity of the walls, dividing the town from the suburb of Vaugeux.
This tower is generally supposed to be the oldest in the fortifications. Its masonry is similar
to that of the wall with which it is connected, and which is known to have been built about
the same time as the abbey of St. Stephen. The appearance of it is plain, massy, and rugged;
and it forms a picturesque object. Such also is the Tour au Massacre, which is situated at
the confluence of the Orne and Odon. The tower in question is said to have received its gloomy
title from a massacre, of which our countrymen were guilty, at the time when the town was taken
in 1346. There is, however, reason to believe that this tale is a mere fiction. Huet, at the
same time that he does not venture so far to oppose popular belief, as altogether to deny the
truth of the story of the massacre, adds, that the original name of the tower was la Tour Machart,
and suspects its present appellation to be no more than a corruption of the former one. Renauld
Machart was bailiff of Caen two years prior to the capture of the place by Edward IIIrd; and
the probability is, that the tower was erected by him in those times of alarm, and thus took
his name. It has been supposed that the figure sculptured upon it, may also be intended for
a representation of Machart himself.

Caen contains another castellated building, which might easily mislead the studious antiquarian.
The Château de Calix, as it is sometimes called, is situated at the extremity of the suburb
known by that name; and the curious inhabitants of Caen usually suppose that it was erected
for the purpose of commanding the river, whilst it flowed in its ancient, but now deserted,
bed; or, at least, that it replaces such a fortification. According to the learned Abbé de
la Rue, however, and he is a most competent authority, no real fortification ever existed here;
but the castle was raised in conformity to the caprice of Girard de Nollent, the wealthy owner
of the property, who flourished towards the beginning of the sixteenth century.--Girard de
Nollent's mansion is now occupied by a farmer. It has four fronts. The windows are square-headed,
and surrounded by elegant mouldings; but the mullions have been destroyed. One medallion yet
remains over the entrance; and it is probable that the walls were originally covered with ornaments
of this kind. Such, at least, is the case with the towers and walls, which, surrounding the
dwelling, have given it a castellated aspect. The circular tower nearest the gate forms the
subject of the accompanying sketch: it is dotted on all sides with busts in basso-relievo,
enclosed in medallions, and of great diversity of character. One is a frowning warrior, arrayed
in the helmet of an emperor of the lower empire; another, is a damsel attired in a ruff; a
third, is a turbaned turk. The borders of the medallions are equally diversified: the cordelière,
well known in French heraldry, the vine-leaf, the oak-leaf, all appear as ornaments. The battlements
are surmounted with two statues, apparently Neptune, or a sea-god, and Hercules. These heathen
deities not being very familiar to the good people of Caen, they have converted them, in imagination,
into two gens-d'armes, mounting guard on the castle; and hence it is frequently called the
Château de la Gendarmerie. Some of the busts are accompanied by inscriptions--"Vincit pudicitiam
mors;" "Vincit amor pudicitiam;" "Amor vincit mortem;" and all seem to be either historical
or allegorical. The battlements of the curtain-wall are ornamented in the same manner. The
farther tower has less decoration, and is verging to decay. I have given these details, because
the castle of Calix is a specimen of a style of which we have no fair parallel in England,
and the workmanship is far from being contemptible.

In the Rue St. Jean is a house with decorations, in the same style, but more sumptuous, or,
perhaps I ought rather to say, more perfect. Both of them are most probably of nearly the same
date: for it was principally during the reigns of Charles VIIIth and Louis XIIth, that the
practice prevailed in France, of ornamenting the fronts of houses with medallions. The custom
died away under Francis Ist.

I must now return to more genuine fortifications.--When the walls of Caen were perfect, they
afforded an agreeable and convenient promenade completely round the town, their width being
so great, that three persons might with ease walk abreast upon them. De Bourgueville tells
us that, in his time, they were as much frequented as the streets; and he expatiates with great
pleasure upon the gay and busy prospect which they commanded,

The castle at Caen, degraded as it is in its character by modern innovation, is more deserving
of notice as an historical, than as an architectural, relic. It still claims to be ranked as
a place of defence, though it retains but few of its original features. The spacious, lofty,
circular towers, known by the names of the black, the white, the red, and the grey horse, which
flanked its ramparts, have been brought down to the level of the platform. The dungeon tower
is destroyed. All the grandeur of the Norman castle is lost; though the width of its ditches,
and the thickness of its walls, still testify its ancient strength. I doubt whether any castle
in France covers an equal extent of ground. Monstrelet and other writers have observed, that
this single fortress exceeded in size the towns of Corbeil or of Montferrand; and, indeed,
there are reasons for supposing that Caen, when first founded, only occupied the site of the
present castle; and that, when it became advisable to convert the old town into a fortress,
the inhabitants migrated into the valley below. Six thousand infantry could be drawn up in
battle-array within the outer ballium; and so great was the number of houses and of inhabitants
enclosed within its area, that it was thought expedient to build in it a parochial church,
dedicated to St. George, besides two chapels.

One of the chapels is still in existence, though now converted to a store-house; and the Abbé
de la Rue considers it as an erection anterior to the conquest, and, belonging to the old town
of Caen. Its choir is turned towards the west, and its front to the east.--The religious edifices
upon the continent do not preserve the same uniformity as our English ones, in having their
altars placed in the direction of the rising sun; but this at Caen is a very remarkable instance
of the position of the entrance and the altar being completely reversed[72]. The door-way is
a fine semi-circular arch: the side pillars supporting it are very small, but the decorations
of the archivolt are rich: they consist principally of three rows of the chevron moulding,
enclosed within a narrow fillet of smaller ornaments, approaching in shape to quatrefoils.
Collectively, they form a wide band, which springs from flat piers level with the wall, and
does not immediately unite with the head of the inner arch. The intermediate space is covered
by a reticulated pattern indented in the stone. Above the entrance is a window of the same
form, its top encircled by a broad chequered band, a very unusual accompaniment to this style
of architecture. The front of the chapel presents in other respects, a flat uniform surface,
unvaried, except by four Norman buttresses, and a string-course of the simplest form, running
round the whole building, at somewhat less than mid-height. The sides of the chapel are lighted
by a row of circular-headed windows, with columns in the angles; and between these windows
are buttresses, as in the chapel of the lazar-house of St. Julien, at Rouen.

Huet endeavours to prove that the first fortress which was built at Caen, was erected by William
the Conqueror, who frequently resided here with his Queen Matilda, and who was likely to find
some protection of this nature desirable, as well to guard his royal residence against the
mutinous disposition of the lords of the Bessin, as to command the navigation of the Orne.
The castle was enlarged and strengthened by his son Henry; but it is believed that the four
towers, just mentioned, and the walls surrounding the keep, were added by our countrymen, during
that short period when the Norman sceptre was again wielded by the descendants of the Norman
dukes. Under Louis XIIth and Francis Ist, the whole of the castle, but particularly the dungeon,
underwent great repairs, by which the original form of the structure was entirely changed.--From
that period history is silent respecting the fortress. I cannot, however, take leave of it
without reminding you, that Sir John Fastolf, whilom our neighbour at Castor, was for some
time placed in command here, as Lieutenant to the Regent Duke of Bedford. You, who are acquainted
with the true character of the knight, need scarcely be told, that even his enemies concur
in bearing testimony to his ability, his vigilance, and his valor: it is to be regretted that
he has not met with equal justice at home. Not one individual troubles himself about history,
whilst a thousand read the drama; and the stains which Shakspeare's pen has affixed to the
name of Fastolf, are of a nature never to be wiped away; thus disproving the distich of the
satyrist, who indeed, by his own works, has effectually falsified his own maxim, that--

   "Truth will survive when merry jokes are past;
    For rising merit must buoy up at last."

As usual, the buildings dedicated to religion are far more numerous and valuable than the relics
of military architecture. Of these, the first which salutes the stranger who enters by the
great high road, is the Hôtel Dieu, which is almost intact and unaltered. The basement story
contains large and deep pointed arches, ornamented with the chevron moulding, disposed in a
very peculiar manner.--From the style of the building, there is every reason to believe that
it is of the beginning of the thirteenth century, at which time William, Count of Magneville,
appropriated to charitable purposes the ground now occupied by this hospital, and caused his
donation to be confirmed by a bull from Pope Innocent IIIrd, dated in April, 1210.

The abbeys, the glories of Caen, will require more leisure: at present let us pass on to the
parochial churches. Of these, the most ancient foundation is St. Etienne le Vieil; and tradition
relates that this church was dedicated by St. Renobert, bishop of Bayeux, in the year 350.--But,
though the present edifice may stand upon the site of an ancient one, there would be little
risk in affirming, that not one stone of it was laid upon another till after the year 1400.
The building is spacious, and its tower is not devoid of beauty. The architecture is a medley
of debased gothic and corrupted Roman; but the large pointed windows, decorated by fanciful
mouldings and scroll-work, have an air of richness, though the component parts are so inharmonious.

Attached to the wall of the choir of this church is still to be seen an equestrian statue[73],
part of the celebrated group supposed to represent William the Conqueror making his triumphal
entry into Caen. A headless horse, mounted by a headless rider, and a figure, which has lost
all shape and form, beneath the feet of the steed, are all that now remain; but De Bourgueville,
who knew the group when perfect, says, that there likewise belonged to it a man and woman upon
their knees, as if seeking some explanation for the death of their child, or rather, perhaps,
in the act of imploring mercy.--I have already pointed out the resemblance between these statues
and the bas-relief, of which I have sent you a sketch from St. Georges. One of the most learned
antiquaries of the present time has found a prototype for the supposed figure of the Duke,
among the sculptures of the Trajan column. But this, with all due deference, is far from a
decisive proof that the statue in question was not intended for William. Similar adaptations
of the antique model, "mutato nomine," frequently occur among the works of the artists of the
middle ages; and there is at least a possibility that, had the face been left us, we might
have traced some attempt at a portrait of the Norman Duke. Upon the date of the sculpture,
or the style of the workmanship, I dare not venture an opinion. There are antiquaries, I know,
(and men well qualified to judge,) who believe it Roman: I have heard it pronounced from high
authority, that it is of the eleventh century, others suspect that it is Italian, of the thirteenth
or fourteenth centuries; whilst M. Le Prevost and M. De Gerville maintain most strenuously
that it is not anterior to the fifteenth. De Bourgueville certainly calls it "une antiquité
de grand remarque;" but we all know that any object which is above an hundred years old, becomes
a piece of antiquity in the eye of an uncritical observer; and such was the good magistrate.

