I must except one other, celebrated in an upper chamber, and truly sublime. It was my privilege
to pass my first Sabbath in Rome in the society of the Rev. John Bonar and that of his family,
and at night we met in Mr Bonar's room in the hotel, and had family worship. I well remember
that Mr Bonar read on this occasion the last chapter of that epistle which Paul "sent by Phebe,
servant of the Church at Cenchrea," to the saints at Rome. Likewise greet the church that is
in their house. Salute my well-beloved Epenetus, who is the first fruits of Achaia unto Christ.
Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us. Salute Urbane, our helper in Christ, and Stachys
my beloved. Salute Apelles, approved in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobulus' household.
Salute Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine. Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas,
Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren which are with them.

Uppermost in my mind, in all my wanderings in and about Rome, was the glowing fact that here
Paul had been, and here he had left his ineffaceable traces. I touched, as it were, scriptural
times and apostolic men. Had he not often climbed this Capitol? Had not his feet pressed, times
without number, this lava-paved road through the Forum? These Volscian and Sabine mountains,
so lovely in the Italian sunlight, had often had his eye rested upon them! I began to love
the soil for his sake, and felt that the presence of this one holy man had done more to hallow
it than all that the long race of emperors and popes had done to desecrate it.

CHAPTER XXIV.

INFLUENCE OF ROMANISM ON TRADE.

     The Church the Destroyer of the Country--The Pontifical Government
     just the Papacy in Action--That Government makes Men Beggars,
     Slaves, Barbarians--Influence of Pontifical Government on
     Trade--Iron--Great Agent of Civilization--Almost no Iron in Papal
     States--The Church has forbidden it--Prohibitive Duties on
     Iron--Machinery likewise prohibited--Antonelli's Extraordinary
     Note--Paucity of Iron-Workmen and Mechanics in the Papal
     States--Barbarous Aspect of the Country--Roman Ploughs--Roman
     Carts--How Grain is there Winnowed--Husbandry of Italy--Its
     Cabins--Its Ragged Population--Its Farms--Ruin of its
     Commerce--Isolation of Rome--Reasons why--Proposed Railway from
     Civita Vecchia to Ancona--Frustrated by the Government--Wretched
     Conveyance of Merchandise--Pope's Steam Navy--Papal
     Custom-houses--Bribery--Instances.

It is time to concentrate my observations, and to make their light converge around that evil
system that sits enthroned in this old city. Of all the great ruins in Italy, the greatest
by far is the Italians themselves. The ruin of the Italians I unhesitatingly lay at the door
of the Church;--she is the nation's destroyer. When I first saw the Laocoon in the Vatican,
I felt that I saw the symbol of the country;--there was Italy writhing in the folds of the
great Cobra di Capella, the Papacy.

I cannot here go into the ceremonies practised at Rome, and which present so faithful a copy,
both in their forms and in their spirit, of the pagan idolatry. Nor can I speak of the innumerable
idols of gold and silver, wood and stone, with which their churches are crowded, and before
which you may see votaries praying, and priests burning incense, all day long. Nor can I speak
of the endless round of fêtes and festivals which fill up the entire year, and by which the
priests seek to dazzle, and, by dazzling, to delude and enthral, the Romans. Nor can I detain
my readers with tales and wonders of Madonnas which have winked, and of the blind and halt
which have been cured, which knaves invent and simpletons believe. Nor can I detail the innumerable
frauds for fleecing the Romans;--money for indulgences,--money for the souls in purgatory,--money
for eating flesh on Friday,--money for votive offerings to the saints. The church of the Jesuits
is supposed to be worth a million sterling, in the shape of marbles, paintings, and statuary;
and in this way the capital of the country is locked up, while not a penny can be had for making
roads or repairing bridges, or promoting trade and agriculture. I cannot enter into these matters:
I must confine my attention to one subject,--THE PONTIFICAL GOVERNMENT.

When I speak of the Pontifical Government, I just mean the Papacy. The working of the Papal
Government is simply the working of the Papacy; for what is that Government, but just the principles
of the Papacy put into judicial gear, and employed to govern mankind? It is the Church that
governs the Papal States; and as she governs these States, so would she govern all the earth,
would we let her. The Pontifical Government is therefore the fairest illustration that can
be adduced of the practical tendency and influence of the system. I now arraign the system
in the Government. I am prepared to maintain, both on general principles, and on facts that
came under my own observation while in Rome, that the Pontifical Government is the most flagitiously
unjust, the most inexorably cruel, the most essentially tyrannical Government, that ever existed
under the sun. It is the necessary, the unchangeable, the eternal enemy of liberty. I say,
looking at the essential principles of the Papacy, that it is a system claiming infallibility,
and so laying reason and conscience under interdict,--that it is a system claiming to govern
the world, not by God, but as God,--that it is a system claiming supreme authority in all things
spiritual, and claiming the same supreme authority, though indirectly, in all things temporal,--that
it sets no limits to its jurisdiction, but, on the contrary, makes that jurisdiction to range
indiscriminately over heaven, earth, and hell. Looking at these principles, which no Papist
can deny to be the fundamental and vital elements of his system, I maintain that, if there
be any one thing more than another ascertained and indisputable within the compass of man's
knowledge, it is this, that the domination of a system like the Papacy is utterly incompatible
with the enjoyment of a single particle of liberty on the part of any human being. And I now
proceed to show, that the conclusion to which one would come, reasoning from the essential
principles of this system, is just the conclusion at which he would arrive by observing the
workings of this system, as exhibited at this day in Italy.

I shall arrange the facts I have to state under three heads:--First, Those that relate to the
TRADE of the Roman States: second, Those that relate to the administration of JUSTICE: and
third, Those that relate to EDUCATION and KNOWLEDGE. I shall show that the Pontifical Government
is so conducted as regards Trade, that it can have no other effect than to make the Romans
beggars. I shall show, in the second place, that the Pontifical Government is so conducted
as regards Justice, that it can have no other effect than to make the Romans slaves. And I
shall show, in the third place, that the Pontifical Government is so conducted as regards Education,
that it can have no other effect than to make the Romans barbarians. This is the threefold
result that Government is fitted to work out: this is the threefold result it has wrought out.
It has made the Romans beggars,--it has made the Romans slaves,--it has made the Romans barbarians.
Observe, I do not touch the religious part of the question. I do not enter on any discussion
respecting Purgatory, or Transubstantiation, or the worship of the Virgin. I look simply at
the bearings of that system upon man's temporal interests; and I maintain that, though man
had no hereafter to provide for, and no soul to be saved, he is bound by every consideration
to resist a system so destructive to the whole of his interests and happiness in time.

I come now to trace the workings of the Papacy on the Trade of the Papal States. But here I
am met, on the threshold of my subject, by this difficulty, that I am to speak of what scarce
exists; for so effectually has the Pontifical Government developed its influence in this direction,
that it has all but annihilated trade in the Papal States. If you except the manufacture of
cameos, Roman mosaics, a little painting and statuary, there is really no more trade in the
country than is absolutely necessary to keep the people from starvation. The trade and industry
of the Roman States are crushed to death under a load of monopolies and restrictive tariffs,
invented by infallible wisdom for protecting, but, as it seems to our merely fallible wisdom,
for sacrificing, the industry of the country.

Let us take as our first instance the Iron Trade. We all know the importance of iron as regards
civilization. Civilization may be said to have commenced with iron,--to have extended over
the earth with iron; and so closely connected are the two, that where iron is not, there you
can scarce imagine civilization to be. It is by iron in the form of the plough that man subjugates
the soil; and it is by iron in the form of the sword that he subjugates kingdoms. What would
our country be without its iron,--without its railroads, its steam-ships, its steam-looms,
its cutlery, its domestic utensils? Almost all the comforts and conveniences of civilized life
are obtained by iron. You may imagine, then, the condition of the Papal States, when I state
that iron is all but unknown in them. It is about as rare and as dear as the gold of Uphaz.
And why is it so? There is abundance of iron in our country; water-carriage is anything but
expensive; and the iron manufacturers of Britain would be delighted to find so good a market
as Italy for their produce. Why, then, is iron not imported into that country? For this simple
reason, that the Church has forbidden its introduction. Strange, that it should forbid so useful
a metal where it is so much needed. Yet the fact is, that the Pope has placed its importation
under an as stringent prohibition almost as the importation of heresy: perhaps he smells heresy
and civilization coming in the wake of iron. The duty on the introduction of bar-iron is two
baiocchi la libbra, equivalent to fifty dollars, or £12 10s., per ton; which is about twice
the price of bar-iron in this country. This duty is prohibitive of course.

The little iron which the Romans possess they import mostly from Britain, in the form of pig-iron;
and the absurdity of importing it in this form appears from the fact that there is no coal
in the States to smelt it,--at least none has as yet been discovered: wood-char is used in
this process. When the pig-iron is wrought up into bar-iron, it is sold at the incredible price
of thirty-eight Roman scudi the thousand pounds, which is equivalent, in English money, to
£23 15s. per ton, or four times its price in Britain. The want of the steam-engine vastly augments
the cost of its manufacture. There is a small iron-work at Terni, eighty miles from Rome, which
is set down there for the advantage of water-power, which is employed to drive the works. The
whole raw material has to be carted from Rome, and, when wrought up, carted back again, adding
enormously to the expense. There is another at Tivoli, also moved by water-power. The whole
raw material has, too, to be carted from Rome, and the manufactured article carted back, causing
an outlay which would soon more than cover the expense of steam-engine and fuel. At Terni some
sixty persons are employed, including boys and men. The manager is a Frenchman, and most of
the workmen are Frenchmen, with wages averaging from forty to fifty baiocchi; labourers at
the works have from twenty-five to thirty baiocchi per day,--from a shilling to fifteenpence.

During the reign of Gregory XVI. machinery was admitted into the Papal States at a nominal
duty, or one baiocchi the hundred Roman pounds. It is not in a day that a country like Italy
can be taught the advantage of mechanical power. The Romans, like every primitive people, are
apt to cleave to the rude, unhandy modes which they and their fathers have practised, and to
view with suspicion and dislike inventions which are new and strange. But they were beginning
to see the superiority of machinery, and to avail themselves of its use. A large number of
hydraulic presses, printing presses, one or two steam-engines, a few threshing-mills, and other
agricultural implements, were introduced under this nominal duty; and, had a little longer
time been allowed, the country would have begun to assume somewhat of a civilized look. But
Gregory died; and, as if to show the utter hopelessness of anything like progress on the part
of the Pontifical Government, it was the present Pope who took the retrograde step of restoring
the law shutting out machines. Cardinal Tosti, the Treasurer to Gregory's Government, was succeeded
by his Excellenza Monsignor (now Cardinal) Antonelli, one of the earliest official acts of
whom was the appending a note to the tariff on machinery, which subjected machines, all and
sundry, to the duty imposed in the tariff on their component parts. For example, a machine
composed of iron, brass, steel, and wood, according to Antonelli's note, would have to pay
separate duty on each of the materials composing it. The way in which the thing was done is
a fine sample of the spirit and style of papal legislation, and shows how the same subtle but
perverted ingenuity, the same specious but hypocritical pretexts, with which the theological
part of the system abounds, are extended also to its political and civil managements. Antonelli
did not rescind the tariff; he but appended a note, the quiet but sure effect of which was
to render it null. He did not tax machines as a whole; they were still free, viewed in their
corporate capacity: he but taxed their individual parts. This ingenious legislator, by a saving
clause, exempted from the operation of his note machines of new invention, which, after being
proved to be such, were to be admitted at the nominal duty! What machines would not be of new
invention in the Roman States, where there is absolutely no machinery, saving--with all reverence
for the apostolic chamber--the guillotine?

But farther, Antonelli, to show at once his ingenuity and philanthropy, enacted that machines
which had never before been introduced into the States should be admitted at the nominal duty.
Mark the extent of the boon herein conferred on Italy. We shall suppose that one of each of
the industrial and agricultural machines in use in Britain is admitted into the Roman States
under this law. It is admitted duty-free. Well, but the second plough, or the second loom,
or the second steam-engine, arrives. It must pay a prohibitive duty. It is not a new machine.
You can make as many as you please from the one already introduced, says Antonelli. But who
is to make them? There are no mechanics deserving the name in Rome; who, by the way, are the
very people Antonelli said he meant to benefit. But, apart from the want of mechanical skill,
there is the dearth of the raw material; for maleable iron was selling in Rome at upwards of
£21 per ton, at a time when the cost of bar-iron in this country was only from £6 to £7 per
ton. Such insane legislation on the part of the sacerdotal Government could not be committed
through ignorance or stupidity. There must be some strong reason that does not appear at first
sight for this wholesale sacrifice of the interests of the country. We shall speak of this
anon: meanwhile we pursue our statement.

Antonelli supported his note,--that note which ratified the banishment of the arts from Italy,
and gave barbarism an eternal infeftment in the soil,--by affirming that it was passed in order
to encourage l'industria dello Stato; which is as if one should say that he had cut his neighbour's
throat to protect his life; for certainly Antonelli's note cut the throat of industry. Well,
one would think, seeing this legislation was meant to protect the industry of the State and
the interests of the iron-workmen, that these iron-workmen must be a large body. How many iron-workmen
are there in the Papal States? An hundred thousand? One thousand? There are not more in all
than one hundred and fifty! And for these one hundred and fifty iron-workmen (to which we may
add the seventy cardinals, the most of whom are speculators in iron), the rest of the community
is put beyond the pale of civilization, the ordinary arts and utensils are proscribed, improvement
is at a stand-still, and the country is doomed to remain from age to age in barbarism.

And what is the aspect of the country? It is decidedly that of a barbarous land. Everything
has an old-world look, as if it belonged to the era of the Flood. Iron being so enormously
dear, its use is dispensed with wherever it is possible. Almost all implements of agriculture,
of carriage, almost all domestic utensils, and many tools of trade, are made of wood. In consequence,
they do very little work; and that little but indifferently well. Nothing could be more primitive
than the plough of the Romans. It consists of a single stick or lever, fixed to a block having
the form of a sock or coulter, with a projection behind, on which the ploughman puts his foot,
and assists the bullocks over a difficulty. The work done by this implement we would not call
ploughing: it simply scratches the surface to the depth of some three or four inches, with
which the poor husbandman is content. The soil is in general light, but it might be otherwise
tilled; and, were it so, would yield far other harvests than those now known in Italy. Their
carts, too, are of the rudest construction, and may be regarded as ingenious models of the
form which should combine the largest bulk with the least possible use. They have high wheels,
and as wide-set as those in our country, with nothing to fill the dreary space between but
an uncouth-looking nut-shell of a box. The infallible Government of the Pope has not judged
it beneath it to legislate in reference to them. They must be made of a certain prescribed
capacity, and stamped for the purchase and sale of lime and pozzolano. In this happy country,
all things, from the Immaculate Conception down to the pozzolano cart, are cared for by the
sacerdotal Government. The open-bodied carts have bars (the length and distance apart of which
are also regulated by the pontiff) placed on the trams, and are licensed for the sale of green
wood, which must be sold at from three and a half to four dollars a load. The barozza is another
open-bodied cart, with bars placed around the trams, and contains about twelve sacks of wood-char,
which is sold at from eight to ten dollars. This is the fuel of the country, and, when kindled,
does well enough for cooking. It gives considerable heat and but little smoke, but lacks the
cheerfulness and comfort of an English fire-side, which is unknown in Rome.

Every agricultural process is conducted in the same rude and slovenly way. And how can it be
otherwise, when the Church, for reasons best known to itself, denies the people the use of
the indispensable instruments? It solemnly legislates that one British plough may be imported;
and graciously permits its subjects, in a land where there are no mechanics, to make as many
additional ploughs as they need. Is it not peculiarly modest in these men, who show so little
wisdom in temporal matters, to ask the entire world to surrender its belief to them in things
spiritual and divine?

Every one knows how we winnow corn in Britain. How do they conduct that process at Rome? A
cart-load of grain is poured out on the barn-floor; some dozen or score of women squat down
around it, and with the hand separate the chaff from the wheat, pickle by pickle. In this way
a score of women may do in a week what a farmer in our country could do easily in a couple
of hours. An effort was made to persuade the predecessor of the present Pontiff, Gregory XVI.,
to sanction the admission into Rome of a winnowing-machine. Its mode of working and uses were
explained to the Pontiff. Gregory shook his head; for Infallibility indicates its doubts at
times, just as mortals do, by a shake of the head. It was a dangerous thing to introduce into
Rome, said the infallible Gregory. Perhaps it was; for if the Romans had begun to winnow grain,
they might have learned to winnow other things besides grain.

The husbandry of Italy, as a system, is in a most backward state. Its cultivation is the cultivation
of Ireland. And yet Italy is excelled by few countries on earth, perhaps by none, in point
of its external defences, and its inexhaustible internal resources; which, however, under its
present Government, are utterly wasted. On the north it is defended by the wall of the Alps,
and on all its other sides by the ocean, whose bays offer boundless facilities for commerce.
The plains of Lombardy are eternally covered with flowers and fruit. The valleys of Tuscany
still boast the olive, the orange, and the vine. The wide waste of the Campagna di Roma is
of the richest soil, and, spread out beneath the warm sun, might mingle on its surface the
fruits of the torrid with those of the temperate zones. Instead of this, Italy presents to
the traveller's eye a deplorable spectacle of wretched cabins, untilled fields, and a population
oppressed by sloth and covered with rags. The towns are filled mostly with idlers and beggars.
With all my inquiries, I could never get a clear idea of how they live. The alms-houses are
numerous; for when a Government puts down trade, it must build hospitals and poor's-houses,
or see its subjects die of starvation. In Rome, for example, besides the convents, where a
number of poor people get a meal a day,--a sufficiently meagre one,--there is the government
Beneficenza, which the more intelligent part account a great curse. Some fifteen hundred or
two thousand persons, many of them able-bodied men, receive fifteen baiocchi,--sevenpence half-penny,--per
day, in return for which they pouter about with barrows, removing earth from the old ruins,
or cleaning the streets, which are none the cleaner, or picking grass in the square of the
Vatican. Many deplorable tales are told in Rome of these people, and of the dire sacrifice
made of the female portion of their families. But the grand resource is beggary, especially
from foreigners; and if a beggar earn a penny a day, he will make a shift to live. He will
purchase half a pound of excellent macaroni with the one baiocchi, and a few apples or grapes
with the other; and thus he is provided for for the day. The inhabitants of these countries
do not eat so substantially as we do. Should he earn nothing, he has it in his choice to steal
or starve. This is the prolific source of brigandage and vagabondism.

In the country, the peasants (and there almost all are peasants) live by cultivating a small
patch of land. The farms, like those in Ireland, are mere crofts. The proprietor, who lives
in the city, provides not only the land, but the implements and cattle also, and in return
receives a stipulated portion of the fruits. His share is often as high as a half, never lower
than a fourth. The farmer is a tenant-at-will most commonly, but removals are rare; and sometimes,
as in Ireland, the same lands remain in the occupation of the same families for generations.
Their conical little hills, with their peasant villages a-top, are curiously ribbed with a
particoloured vegetation, each family cultivating their couple of acres after their own fashion;
while the plain is not unfrequently abandoned to marshes, or ruins, or wild herbage. To dig
drains, to clear out the substructions, to re-open the ancient water-courses, or to follow
any improved system of cropping, is far beyond the enterprise of the poor farmer. He has neither
skill, nor capital, nor savings. If nature takes the matter into her own hand, well; if not,
one bad harvest irretrievably lands him in famine. Thus, with a soil and climate not excelled
perhaps in the world, the husbandman drags out his life in poverty, and is often on the very
brink of starvation. Whatever beauty and fertility that land still retains, it owes to nature,
not to man. Indeed, it is now only the skeleton of Italy that exists, with here and there patches
of its former covering,--nooks of exquisite beauty, which strike one the more from the desolation
that surrounds them. But its cultivated portions are every year diminishing. Its woods and
olives are fast disappearing; and by and by the very beasts of the field will be compelled
to leave it, and the King of the Seven Hills, could we conceive of his remaining behind, will
be left to reign in undisputed and unenvied supremacy over the storks and frogs, and other
animals, that breed and swarm in its marshes.

The commerce of Italy, too, is extinct. How can it be otherwise? Under their terrible stagnation
and death of mind, the Italians produce nothing for export. In that country there are no factories,
no mining operations, no ship-building, no public works, no printing presses, no tools of trade.
In short, they create nothing but a few articles of vertu; and even in those arts in which
alone their genius is allowed to exert itself, foreigners excel them. The best sculptors and
painters at Rome are Englishmen. And as regards their soil, which might send its wheat, and
wine, and olives, all delicious naturally, to every part of the world, its harvests are now
able but to feed the few men who live in the country. As to imports, both raw and manufactured,
which the Romans need so much, we have seen how the sacerdotal Government takes effectual means
to prevent these reaching the population. The Pontiff has enclosed his territory with a triple
wall of protective duties and monopolies, to keep out the foreign merchant; and thus not only
are the Romans forbidden to labour for themselves, but they are prevented profiting by the
labour of others. There is a monopoly of sugar-refining, a monopoly of salt-making, and, in
short, of every thing which the Romans most need. These monopolies are held by the favourites
of the Government; and though generally the houses that hold them are either unwilling or unable
to make more than a tithe of what the Romans would require, no other establishment can produce
these articles, and they cannot be imported but at a ruinous duty.

