A Highland Division, whose star pipers were holding a dirge and lament contest on that date,
are now ticking off the hours to the next offensive.

The Antrims had a cordon bleu by the name of Michael O'Callagan. He was a sturdy rogue, having
retreated all the way from Mons, and subsequently advanced all the way back to the Yser with
a huge stock-pot on his back, from which he had furnished mysterious stews to all comers, at
all hours, under any conditions. For this, and for the fact that he could cook under water,
and would turn out hot meals when other chefs were committing suicide, much was forgiven him,
but he was prone to look upon the vin when it was rouge and was habitually coated an inch thick
with a varnish of soot and pot-black. One morning he calmly hove himself over the parapet and,
in spite of the earnest attentions of Hun snipers, remained there long enough to collect sufficient
débris to boil his dixies. Next day the Bosch Funny Cuts flared forth scareheads:--

    "SAVAGES ON THE SOMME.

    "The desperate and unprincipled British are employing black
    cannibal Zulus in the defence of their system. Yesterday one of
    them, a chief of incredibly depraved appearance, was observed
    scouting in the open."

The communiqué ended with a treatise on the Zulu, its black man-eating habits, and an exhortation
to "our old Brandenburgers" not to be dismayed.

PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE SEX PROBLEMS.

From a stock-auction report:--

    "THE BULL CALVES. THE BULL CALVES."
    Glasgow Herald.

Notwithstanding the repetition of this statement we find great difficulty in believing it.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "SOLDIERS' CHRISTMAS GIFTS. POSTING DATES FOR EGYPT AND SALONIKA."
    Times.

It sounds a little like consigning coal to Newcastle.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "AIR RAIDS.--Peaceful country rectory, Hampshire, well out of
    danger zone, can receive three or four paying guests. Large
    garden, beautiful scenery, high, bracing. Simple life. £10
    each weekly."--The Times.

This enterprising parson seems to have borrowed his recipe for the simple life from GRAY'S Elegy:--

  Along the cool sequester'd vale of life
    They kept the noiseless tenner of their way.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEASTS ROYAL.

IV.

KING HENRY'S STAG-HOUND. A.D. 1536.

  Ten puffs upon my master's toes,
    And twenty on his sleeves,
  Upon his hat a Tudor rose
    Set round with silver leaves;
      But never a hunting-spear,
        And never a rowel-spur;
      Who is this that he calls his Dear?
        I think I will bark at her.

  The Windsor groves were fresh and green,
    Dangling with Summer dew,
  When my master rode with his Spanish queen,
    And the huntsman cried, "Halloo!"
      Now never a horn is heard,
        And never the lances stir;
      Who is this that he calls his Bird?
        I think I will follow her.

  To-night my master walks alone
    In the pleachéd pathway dim,
  And the thick moss reddens on the stone
    Where she used to walk with him.
      When will he shout for the glove
        And the spear of the verderer?
      Where is she gone whom he called his Love?
        For I cannot follow her.

       *       *       *       *       *

SECOND CHILDHOOD.

I must make a confession to someone. I have wasted raw material which is a substitute for something
else indispensable for defeating the Hun, and probably traitor is the right name for me. Let
me explain.

Somewhere in Nutshire there is a place called Cotterham. It is one of those little villages
which somehow nobody expects to meet nowadays outside the pages of a KATE GREENAWAY painting
book. There is the village green, with its pond and geese and absurdly pretty cottages with
gardens full of red bergamot and lads'-love, and a little school where the children are still
taught to curtsey and pull their forelocks when the Squire goes by. And beyond the Green, at
the end of Plough Lane and after you have crossed Leg-o'-Mutton Common, you come to Down Wood,
and if you don't meet Little Red Riding-Hood on the way or come on Snow White and her seven
dwarfs, that is only because you must have taken the wrong turning after you came through the
kissing-gate at the bottom of Lovers' Lane. I am a native of Cotterham, and in my more reflective
moments I wonder why such an idyllic place should have produced anything so unromantic as myself,
His Majesty's Deputy Assistant Acting Inspector for All Sorts of Unexpected Explosives. Cotterham
still has a large place in my affections, and it gave me a considerable shock the other day
to get a letter from the Squire, who is an old friend, asking me down for a week-end, and adding,
"You can do a little professional job for me too. You really will be interested to see what
splendid work is being done here in your line of fire. The output is some of the best in the
district. But there has been trouble lately and the leaders of the two biggest shifts were
found to have appropriated a substantial part of the output to their own uses. I shall rely
on you to straighten things out and suggest the right penalties."

So they were even making munitions in Cotterham. I conjured up visions of interminable rows
of huts, of thousands of overalled workers swamping Plough Lane, trampling the Green brown,
scaring the geese, obliterating the immemorial shape of Leg-o'-Mutton Common by a mushroom
township, laying Down Wood low, and coming to me with some miserable tale of petty pilfering
for my adjustment. I must own I got out of the train at Muddlehampstead and into the station
fly feeling distinctly low-spirited. It was some consolation to find that the railway still
stopped seven miles short of my village, though I reflected gloomily that the place itself
was doubtless a network of light railways by this time. We bowled along in stately fashion
up Plough Lane and past Halfpenny Cross to the Manor House with its thatched roof and Virginia-creeper
all over the porch. The Squire carried me off at once for the professional part of my visit,
but we fell to talking of fishing, which had been good, and cubbing, which had been bad, and
were on to Leg-o'-Mutton Common before I remembered to speak of munitions.

"Not much sign of war here," I said with a relieved sigh. "I was afraid they'd have spoilt
the dear old heath for a certainty. Only don't say it's Down Wood they've gone to, for that'd
be more than I could stand. I thought there were fairies there long after I ought to have been
a hard-headed young man of six, and if they've gone and desecrated that wood with factories--"

The Squire smiled.

"I don't think I should worry. Amongst all your Unexpected Explosives do you happen to condescend
to have heard of the gentle horse-chestnut and the school-children that collect them? Here
are the two delinquents I wrote to you about, and we've caught them in the act. Just look at
them wasting the precious things."

Two small boys were playing at conkers, two small boys with very earnest faces and grubby clothes
which never figured in KATE GREENAWAY'S pictures, wasting precious material which five-and-thirty
other scholars were diligently collecting and stuffing into sacks. I ought to have given them
a lecture on patriotism--the army behind the Army.

They say that treason never succeeds; so perhaps I can't be a traitor after all.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UNDISMAYED.

In a world of insecurity and change it is good to have one bedrock certainty upon which the
mind can rest. Thrones totter and fall; Commanders-in-chief are superseded; Admirals of the
High Fleet are displaced; in politics leaders come and go and reputations pass; in ordinary
life a thousand mutations are visible. But amid all this flux there remains mercifully one
resolute piece of routine that nothing can alter. Whatever may be happening elsewhere in the
world--mutinies in the German Navy, revolutions in Russia, advances in France, advances in
Flanders--Leicester Square keeps its head. Armageddon may be turning the world upside down,
but it cannot cause those old antagonists, STEVENSON and REECE, to cease their perpetual contest;
and if the War lasts another ten years you will read in The Times of October 17th, 1927, a
paragraph to the effect that "at the close of play yesterday in the billiard match of 16,000
points up between Stevenson and Reece, at the Grand Hall, Leicester Square, the scores were:
Reece (in play), 4,676; Stevenson, 2,837."

       *       *       *       *       *

NOT CANNIBALS AFTER ALL.

    "The first contingent of the American troops brought food for six
    months, and hence the fears of the peasants in France lest they
    should be eaten up are groundless."--Adelaide Advertiser.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "If the public continue to spend the same sum of money on bread
    at 9d. as they did when it was 1s., it is easy to see that the
    consumption will rise by a quarter or 25 per cent."--Glasgow
    Evening News.

We are always timid about questioning a Scotsman's arithmetic, but we make the increase a third,
or 33-1/3 per cent.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CROSS-TALK WITH PETHERTON.

Petherton and I have just emerged from another bombardment. Certain correspondence in The Surbury
Gazette and North Herts Courier gave me a welcome excuse for firing what I may term a sighting
shot. I wrote to my genial neighbour as follows:--

DEAR MR. PETHERTON,--No doubt you have seen the recent letters in the local paper anent the
remains of the old Cross, which are at once an ornament to Castle Street, Surbury, and a standing
menace to the peace of mind of the local antiquarians.

I am exceedingly interested in the matter myself and feel that the views of one who, I am sure,
adds a wide knowledge of archæology to the long list of his accomplishments, would be both
interesting and instructive to myself and (if you would allow your views to be published) to
our little community in general.

If therefore you will write and let me know your opinion on the matter I shall take it as a
friendly and cousinly (vide certain eighteenth-century documents in the Record Office) act.

Yours sincerely,

HENRY J. FORDYCE.

Petherton replied with a whizz-bang as thus:--

SIR,--I have read the idiotic correspondence to which you refer, and am informed that you are
the author of the screed which appeared in last Saturday's issue of the paper. If my informant
is correct as to the authorship of the letter I can only say it is a pity that, with apparently
no knowledge of the subject, you should venture into print. Anyone enjoying the least acquaintance
with the rudiments of English history would be perfectly aware that the remains have no connection
with QUEEN ELEANOR whatever. The whereabouts of all the crosses put up to her memory are quite
well known to archæologists.

Yours faithfully,

FREDERICK PETHERTON.

I replied with light artillery:--

DEAR PETHERTON,--Yours re the late Mrs. EDWARD PLANTAGENET to hand.

Though not a professed archæologist I do know something of the ruin in question, having several
times examined it and having heard, perhaps, most, if not all, the various theories concerning
it. I have been here a good deal longer than you have, I believe, and cannot think that you
know more of the subject than I.

Have you read Wycherley's treatise on the Eleanor Crosses? [I invented this monograph for the
purpose of inducing Petherton to reload.] If not, why not? Perhaps you would like to dispute
the existence of a castle on the site where the Castle Farm now stands, and where such shameless
profiteering is carried on in eggs and butter?

By the way, how is your poultry? I notice that your seizième siècle rooster wants his tail
remodelling. Perhaps you are not worrying about new plumage for him till after the War, though
it seems like carrying patriotism to absurd lengths.

Yours sincerely,

HENRY J. FORDYCE.

I hope you will allow your letter to be published in The Gazette.

In reply to this Petherton discharged with:--

SIR,--I am not concerned with the castle, which may or may not have existed in Surbury, nor
am I interested in your friend's monograph on Eleanor Crosses. Other people besides yourself
have the impudence to rush into print on matters of which they are sublimely ignorant.

Perhaps I had better inform you that EDWARD I. reigned at the end of the thirteenth and the
beginning of the fourteenth centuries (1272-1307), not in the fifteenth, and a very slight
knowledge of architecture would convince you that the Surbury relics are not earlier than the
fifteenth century.

Trusting you will not commit any further absurdities, though I am not too sanguine,

I am, Yours faithfully,

FREDERICK PETHERTON.

My views are not for publication. I prefer not to be mixed up in such a symposium.

It was evident that my neighbour's weapon was beginning to get heated, so I flicked him with
some more light artillery to draw him on, and loosed off with:--

Dear Old Man,--What a historian you are! You have JOHN RICHARD GREEN beaten to his knees, FROUDE
and GARDINER out of sight, and even the authoress of the immortal Little Arthur could not have
placed EDDY I. with greater chronological exactitude. In fact there seems to be no subject
on which you cannot write informatively, which makes me sorry that you will not join in the
literary fray in the local paper, as it deprives the natives of a great treat.

But--there is a but, my dear Fred--I cannot admit your claim to superior knowledge of the Surbury
relics. Remember, I have grown up with them as it were. Yours ever,

HARRY FORDYCE.

Sir (exploded Petherton),--What senseless drivel you write on the least provocation! Whether
you grew up with the Surbury relics or not, you have certainly decayed with them. Every stone
that's left of that confounded ruin (probably only a simple market-cross) proclaims the date
of its birth. Even the broken finial and the two crockets lying on the ground expose your ignorance.
Eleanor Cross, bah!

Yours flly., F. PETHERTON.

I thought it was time to emerge from my literary camouflage and let off a heavy howitzer; which
I did, with the following:--

Dear Freddy,--I am afraid you have got hold of the wrong end of the stick and laid an egg in
a mare's nest. [These mixed metaphors were designed to tease him into a further barrage.] I
did not write, and I do not remember saying that I had written, the letter to the paper which
seems to have given you as much pleasure as it has given me. I had no hand in the symposium,
but the way you have brought your Chesterfield battery into action has been so masterly that
I, for one, can never regret that you were misinformed. I believe the particular letter to
The Gazette was written by one of the staff, a native of the place, who probably carved his
name on the base in his youth, and has felt a personal interest in the Cross ever since. I
hope with this new light on the affair you will favour me with your further views on history
and archæology.

Yours ever, Harry.

How lovely the blackberries are looking after the rain!

But I couldn't draw Petherton's fire again, for his gun had been knocked out by this direct hit.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SUGAR CONTROL.

Thanks to the new sugar regulations we now expect half a pound of sugar per head per week instead
of half a pound of sugar per head per-haps.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "HOGS STILL SOARING."
    Headline in Canadian Paper.

The shortage of petrol seems to have driven them from the roads.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Sir John Hare declares that there is no truth in the statement
    that he is saying '----' to the stage."--Bournemouth Echo.

Personally, we never believed that he would be guilty of such language.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The only thing which will actually bring peace is an army of
    occupation standing on its own flat feet, either in Germany or
    on the German frontier."--Weekly Dispatch.

But why this preference for the flat-footed? Are not the hammer-toed to have a chance?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW MRS. MARKHAM.

CONVERSATION ON CHAPTER LX.

Mary. I wish, Mamma, that there were not so many shocking stories in history.

Mrs. M. History is, indeed, a sad catalogue of human miseries, and one is glad to turn aside
from the horrors of war to the amenities of private life. Shall I tell you something of the
domestic habits of the English in the early twentieth century?

Mary. Oh do, Mamma; I shall like that very much.

Mrs. M. The nobility and the well-to-do classes no longer lived shut up in gloomy castles,
but made a point of spending most of their time in public. They never took their meals at home,
but habitually frequented large buildings called restaurants, fitted up with sumptuous and
semi-Sultanic splendour. In these halls, while the guests sat at a number of tables, they were
entertained by minstrels and singers. It was even said that they acquired the habit of eating
and drinking in time to the music. They were waited upon for the most part by foreigners, who
spoke broken English, and what with the babel of tongues, the din of the music and the constant
popping of corks, for alcohol had not yet been prohibited, the scene beggared description.

Richard. Well, I am sure I would rather dine in our neat little dining-room, with our silent
wireless waiter, than partake of the most extravagant repasts in those sumptuous halls.

George. I must just ask you, Mamma, about one thing that has all along puzzled me very much.
What was the House of Lords about all this time that they let the House of Commons govern the
country and have their own way in everything?

Mrs. M. I am afraid, my dear George, that you are animated by a somewhat reactionary bias in
favour of feudalism, which in your own best interests you would do well to curb. It is enough
to say that some of the peers supported the House of Commons, and the majority were too timid
to make any stand against the numbers and violence of the other House. Nowadays, thanks to
the wide diffusion of peerages and the fact that they are conferred far more freely on persons
of advanced political views, this lack of independence has largely been eliminated.

Richard. I am sure we must all thank you for the trouble you took to explain about Free Trade
and Protection; but if you are not too tired will you kindly tell us something about the learned
and clever men who lived at this time?

Mrs. M. You know, my dear boy, that I am always happy to impart information, and am pleased
to have such attentive listeners. The authoress of your favourite poems, Mary, lived in this
reign. I mean Mrs. ELLA WHEELER WILCOX. The Rev. H.G. WELLS, the famous theologian who abolished
the Latin and Greek grammars; the Baroness Corkscrew--to call her by the name under which she
was ultimately elevated to the peerage--who wrote so many beautiful historical romances that
she quite superseded Sir WALTER SCOTT; Sir JOHN OXENHAM, one of England's greatest poets; and
Lord HALL-CAINE, author of Isle of Man Power, were commanding figures in this period.

Richard. Oh, Mamma, did not Lord HALL-CAINE discover the North Pole?

Mrs. M. Not that I am aware of, my dear boy, though it is quite possible. But you are probably
confusing him with the Arctic explorer, Dr. KANE. Among the scientific men I must mention Sir
WILLIAM ROBERTSON NICOLL, the great Scots agriculturist who first applied intensive culture
to the kailyard; General BELLOC, the illustrious topographer, and HAROLD BEGBIE, who discovered
and popularized Sir OLIVER LODGE.

Richard. Ah, Mamma, I know enough about the Georgians to feel sure that you have left out a
great many things. You have never told us about the Marquis of NORTHCLIFFE'S discovery of America,
his introduction of the potato to that Continent, and his building of the Yellow House in the
Yellowstone Park.

George. And you have not fully satisfied our curiosity about Sir GEORGE ROBEY, Baronet, Lord
LAUDER, Sir CHARLES CHAPLIN and other great Leaders of English Society.

Mrs. M. True, my dear, but you must read their lives in the Dictionary of National Biography,
for here is the tea, and I must leave off.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALLIRAP ASRAS.

It would be interesting to know more of this great Persian ruler, but history being reticent
our chance has gone, unless it should be the good fortune of some member of Sir STANLEY MAUDE'S
expedition, rummaging in the archives of Baghdad, to come upon new facts. Meanwhile I offer
the name as a terse and snappy one for a Persian kitten, such as I saw the other day convert
several shillings'-worth of my aunt's Berlin wool (as it is still, I believe, called, in spite
of The Daily Mail) into sheer scrap. Knitting however is not what it was in the early days
of the War and the tragedy led to no bloodshed, my aunt, who has evidently an emulative admiration
for Sir ISAAC NEWTON, merely shaking her finger. But self-control among women must be on the
increase, for in a hotel the other day I overheard a coffee-room conversation in which two
cases were instanced of supreme heroism under agonising conditions--one being when a butler
(an old and honoured butler too, who had never misconducted himself before) fainted while carrying
round the after-dinner coffee and poured most of it over the ample shoulders of a dowager.
This lady not only disregarded the pain and the damp, but assisted in bringing the butler to.
The Distinguished Service Order has been given for less than that.

It was either in this hotel or another that I met the Naval officer among whose duties is the
granting or refusing of permits to amateur photographers in districts where "Dora" does not
wish for enemy cameras. Among the requirements of the form which has to be filled up is one
asking the applicant, in the interests of identification, to specify any peculiar skin marks.
One lady, with a conscientiousness not excelled by the actor who blacked himself all over to
play Othello, stated that she had only an appendicitis scar.

But I am digressing. Where was I? Oh yes, we were discussing that great Persian, Allirap Asras.
Those authorities who think that he was a predecessor of BAHRAM, the hunter, are wrong, for
there was never any Persian of the name at all. I am sorry to have deceived you, but you must
blame not me but a certain domestic remedy. If one bright cart, drawn by a mettled steed and
dispensing this medicinal beverage at a penny a glass, will insist upon being outside Westminster
Abbey and another at the top of Cockspur Street every working day of the week for ever and
ever, how can one help sooner or later spelling its staple product backwards and embroidering
a little on the result?

But what I want to know is--who drinks sarsaparilla, anyway?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "What fine fellows we might have been had we lived in those bygone
    times. We too, perhaps, would have influenced history and our
    names might have been inscribed in the book of immorality."--New
    Ireland.

We understand now why they call it Sin-Fain.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A DECLARATION OF WAR.

  This is the yarn that M'Larty told by the brazier fire,
  Where over the mud-filled trenches the star shells blaze and expire--
  A yarn he swore was a true one; but Mac was an awful liar:--

  "'Way up in the wild North Country, a couple of years ago
  I hauled Hank out of a snowdrift--it was maybe thirty 'below,'
  And I packed him along to my shanty and I took and thawed him with snow.

  "He was stiff as a cold-store bullock, I might have left him for dead,
  But I packed him along, as I've told you, and melted him out instead,
  And I rolled him up in my blankets and put him to sleep in my bed.

  "So he dwelt in my humble shanty while the wintry gales did roar,
  While the blizzards howled in the passes and the timber wolves at the
      door,
  And he slept in my bunk at night-time while I stretched out on the floor.

  "He watched me frying my bacon and he said that the smell was grand;
  He watched me bucking the stove-wood, but he never lent me a hand,
  And he played on my concertina the airs of his native land.

  "And one month grew into two months and two months grew into three,
  And there he was sitting and smiling like a blooming Old Man of the Sea,
  Eating my pork and beans up and necking my whisky and tea.

  "You say, 'Why didn't I shift him?' For the life o' me I dunno;
  I suppose there's something inside me that can't tell a fellow to go
  I hauled by the heels from a snowdrift at maybe thirty 'below.'...

  "But at last, when the snows were going and the blue Spring skies
      were pale,
  Out after bear in the valley I met a chap on the trail--
  A chap coming up from the city, who stopped and told me a tale--

  "A tale of a red war raging all over the land and sea,
  And when he was through I was laughing, for the joke of it seemed to be
  That Hank was a goldarn German--and Hank was rooming with me!

  "So off I hiked to the shanty, and never a word I said,
  I floated in like a cyclone, I yanked him out of my bed,
  And I grabbed the concertina and smashed it over his head.

  "I shook him up for a minute, I stood him down on the floor,
  I grabbed the scruff of his trousers and ran him along to the door,
  And I said, 'This here, if you get me, is a Declaration of War!'

  "And I gave him a hoist with my gum-boot, a kind of a lift with my toe;
  But you can't give a fellow a hiding, as anyone sure must know,
  When you hauled him out of a snowdrift at maybe thirty 'below.'"

  C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GOOD DAY'S WORK.

    "He left Flanders on leave at one o'clock yesterday morning
    and was in London after fourteen months' fighting before
    sundown."--Daily News.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Why can't we find machies for long-distance raids since Germans
    can?"--Evening News.

Personally, if distance is required, we prefer a brassie. We can only assume that the iron
club is chosen in consequence of the number of bad lies there are about.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the German Naval mutiny:--

    "They may be divided into two camps. One holds that it is not
    an affair to which too much importance can be attached; the
    other that it is an affair to which one cannot attach too much
    importance."--Star.

We cannot help feeling that these two factions might safely be accommodated in the same camp.

       *       *       *       *       *

