In a military point of view Julien was probably right; but the savage advice startled even
Baville. "Nothing can be easier," said he, "than to destroy the towns and villages; but this
would be to make a desert of one of the finest and most productive districts of Languedoc."
Yet Baville himself eventually adopted the very policy which he now condemned.

In the first place, however, it was determined to pursue and destroy Cavalier and his band.
Eight hundred men, under the Count de Touman, were posted at Uzes; two battalions of the regiment
of Hainault, under Julien, at Anduze; while Broglie, with a strong body of dragoons and militia,
commanded the passes at St. Ambrose. These troops occupied, as it were, the three sides of
a triangle, in the centre of which Cavalier was known to be in hiding in the woods of Bouquet.
Converging upon him simultaneously, they hoped to surround and destroy him.

But the Camisard chief was well advised of their movements. To draw them away from his magazines,
Cavalier marched boldly to the north, and slipping through between the advancing forces, he
got into Broglie's rear, and set fire to two villages inhabited by Catholics. The three bodies
at once directed themselves upon the burning villages; but when they reached them Cavalier
had made his escape, and was nowhere to be heard of. For four days they hunted the country
between the Garden and the Ceze, beating the woods and exploring the caves; and then they returned,
harassed and vexed, to their respective quarters.

While the Royalists were thus occupied, Cavalier fell upon a convoy of provisions which Colonel
Marsilly was leading to the castle of Mendajols, scattered and killed the escort, and carried
off the mules and their loads to the magazines at Bouquet. During the whole of the month of
January, the Camisards, notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather, were constantly on the
move, making their appearance in the most unexpected quarters; Roland descending from Mialet
on Anduze, and rousing Broglie from his slumbers by a midnight fusillade; Castanet attacking
St. André, and making a bonfire of the contents of the church; Joany disarming Genouillac;
and Lafleur terrifying the villages of the Lozère almost to the gates of Mende.

Although the winters in the South of France, along the shores of the Mediterranean, are comparatively
mild and genial, it is very different in the mountain districts of the interior, where the
snow lies thick upon the ground, and the rivers are bound up by frost. Cavalier, in his Memoirs,
describes the straits to which his followers were reduced in that inclement season, being "destitute
of houses or beds, victuals, bread, or money, and left to struggle with hunger, cold, snow,
misery, and poverty."

     "General Broglie," he continues, "believed and hoped that though
     he had not been able to destroy us with the sword, yet the
     insufferable miseries of the winter would do him that good
     office. Yet God Almighty prevented it through his power, and by
     unexpected means his Providence ordered the thing so well that at
     the end of the winter we found ourselves in being, and in a
     better condition than we expected.... As for our retiring places,
     we were used in the night-time to go into hamlets or sheepfolds
     built in or near the woods, and thought ourselves happy when we
     lighted upon a stone or piece of timber to make our pillows
     withal, and a little straw or dry leaves to lie upon in our
     clothes. We did in this condition sleep as gently and soundly as
     if we had lain upon a down bed. The weather being extremely cold,
     we had a great occasion for fire; but residing mostly in woods,
     we used to get great quantity of faggots and kindle them, and so
     sit round about them and warm ourselves. In this manner we spent
     a quarter of a year, running up and down, sometimes one way and
     sometimes another, through great forests and upon high mountains,
     in deep snow and upon ice. And notwithstanding the sharpness of
     the weather, the small stock of our provisions, and the marches
     and counter-marches we were continually obliged to make, and
     which gave us but seldom the opportunity of washing the only
     shirt we had upon our back, not one amongst us fell sick. One
     might have perceived in our visage a complexion as fresh as if we
     had fed upon the most delicious meats, and at the end of the
     season we found ourselves in a good disposition heartily to
     commence the following campaign."[44]

         [Footnote 44: Cavalier's "Memoirs of the Wars of the
         Cevennes," pp. 111-114.]

The campaign of 1703, the third year of the insurrection, began unfavourably for the Camisards.
The ill-success of Count Broglie as commander of the royal forces in the Cevennes, determined
Louis XIV.--from whom the true state of affairs could no longer be concealed--to supersede
him by Marshal Montrevel, one of the ablest of his generals. The army of Languedoc was again
reinforced by ten thousand of the best soldiers of France, drawn from the armies of Germany
and Italy. It now consisted of three regiments of dragoons and twenty-four battalions of foot--of
the Irish Brigade, the Miguelets, and the Languedoc fusiliers--which, with the local militia,
constituted an effective force of not less than sixty thousand men!

Such was the irresistible army, commanded by a marshal of France, three lieutenant-generals,
three major-generals, and three brigadier-generals, now stationed in Languedoc, to crush the
peasant insurrection. No wonder that the Camisard chiefs were alarmed when the intelligence
reached them of this formidable force having been set in motion for their destruction.

The first thing they determined upon was to effect a powerful diversion, and to extend, if
possible, the area of the insurrection. For this purpose, Cavalier, at the head of eight hundred
men, accompanied by thirty baggage mules, set out in the beginning of February, with the object
of raising the Viverais, the north-eastern quarter of Languedoc, where the Camisards had numerous
partizans. The snow was lying thick upon the ground when they set out; but the little army
pushed northward, through Rochegude and Barjac. At the town of Vagnas they found their way
barred by a body of six hundred militia, under the Count de Roure. These they attacked with
great fury and speedily put to flight.

But behind the Camisarde was a second and much stronger royalist force, eighteen hundred men,
under Brigadier Julien, who had hastened up from Lussan upon Cavalier's track, and now hung
upon his rear in the forest of Vagnas. Next morning the Camisards accepted battle, fought with
their usual bravery, but having been trapped into an ambuscade, they were overpowered by numbers,
and at length broke and fled in disorder, leaving behind them their mules, baggage, seven drums,
and a quantity of arms, with some two hundred dead and wounded. Cavalier himself escaped with
difficulty, and, after having been given up for lost, reached the rendez-vous at Bouquet in
a state of complete exhaustion, Ravanel and Catinat having preceded him thither with, the remains
of his broken army.

Roland and Cavalier now altered their tactics. They resolved to avoid pitched battles such
as that at Vagnas, where they were liable to be crushed at a blow, and to divide their forces
into small detachments constantly on the move, harassing the enemy, interrupting their communications,
and falling upon detached bodies whenever an opportunity for an attack presented itself.

To the surprise of Montrevel, who supposed the Camisards finally crushed at Vagnas, the intelligence
suddenly reached him of a multitude of attacks on fortified posts, burning of châteaux and
churches, captures of convoys, and defeats of detached bodies of Royalists.

Joany attacked Genouillac, cut to pieces the militia who defended it, and carried off their
arms and ammunition, with other spoils, to the camp at Faux-des-Armes. Shortly after, in one
of his incursions, he captured a convoy of forty mules laden with cloth, wine, and provisions
for Lent; and, though hotly pursued by a much superior force, he succeeded in making his escape
into the mountains.

Castanet was not less active in the west--sacking and burning Catholic villages, and putting
their inhabitants to the sword by way of reprisal for similar atrocities committed by the Royalists.
At the same time, Montrevel pillaged and burned Euzet and St. Jean de Ceirarges, villages inhabited
by Protestants; and there was not a hamlet but was liable at any moment to be sacked and destroyed
by one or other of the contending parties.

Nor was Roland idle. Being greatly in want of arms and ammunition, as well as of shoes and
clothes for his men, he collected a considerable force, and made a descent, for the purpose
of obtaining them, on the rich and populous towns of the south; more particularly on the manufacturing
town of Ganges, where the Camisards had many friends. Although Roland, to divert the attention
of Montrevel from Ganges, sent a detachment of his men into the neighbourhood of Nismes to
raise the alarm there, it was not long before a large royalist force was directed against him.

Hearing that Montrevel was marching upon Ganges, Roland hastily left for the north, but was
overtaken near Pompignan by the marshal at the head of an army of regular horse and foot, including
several regiments of local militia, Miguelets, marines, and Irish. The Royalists were posted
in such a manner as to surround the Camisards, who, though they fought with their usual impetuosity,
and succeeded in breaking through the ranks of their enemies, suffered a heavy loss in dead
and wounded. Roland himself escaped with difficulty, and with his broken forces fled through
Durfort to his stronghold at Mialet.

After the battle, Marshal Montrevel returned to Ganges, where he levied a fine of ten thousand
livres on the Protestant population, giving up their houses to pillage, and hanging a dozen
of those who had been the most prominent in abetting the Camisards during their recent visit.
At the game time, he reported to head-quarters at Paris that he had entirely destroyed the
rebels, and that Languedoc was now "pacified."

Much to his surprise, however, not many weeks elapsed before Cavalier, who had been laid up
by the small-pox during Roland's expedition to Ganges, again appeared in the field, attacking
convoys, entering the villages and carrying off arms, and spreading terror anew to the very
gates of Nismes. He returned northwards by the valley of the Rhône, driving before him flocks
and herds for the provisioning of his men, and reached his retreat at Bouquet in safety. Shortly
after, he issued from it again, and descended upon Ners, where he destroyed a detachment of
troops under Colonel de Jarnaud; next day he crossed the Gardon, and cut up a reinforcement
intended for the garrison of Sommières; and the day after he was heard of in another place,
attacking a convoy, and carrying off arms, ammunition, and provisions.

Montrevel was profoundly annoyed at the failure of his efforts thus far to suppress the insurrection.
It even seemed to increase and extend with every new measure taken to crush it. A marshal of
France, at the head of sixty thousand men, he feared lest he should lose credit with his friends
at court unless he were able at once to root out these miserable cowherds and wool-carders
who continued to bid defiance to the royal authority which he represented; and he determined
to exert himself with renewed vigour to exterminate them root and branch.

In this state of irritation the intelligence was one day brought to the marshal while sitting
over his wine after dinner at Nismes, that an assembly of Huguenots was engaged in worship
in a mill situated on the canal outside the Port-des-Carmes. He at once ordered out a battalion
of foot, marched on the mill, and surrounded it. The soldiers burst open the door, and found
from two to three hundred women, children, and old men engaged in prayer; and proceeded to
put them to the sword. But the marshal, impatient at the slowness of the butchery, ordered
the men to desist and to fire the place. This order was obeyed, and the building, being for
the most part of wood, was soon wrapped in flames, from amidst which rose the screams of women
and children. All who tried to escape were bayoneted, or driven back into the burning mill.
Every soul perished--all excepting a girl, who was rescued by one of Montrevel's servants.
But the pitiless marshal ordered both the girl and her deliverer to be put to death. The former
was hanged forthwith, but the lackey's life was spared at the intercession of some sisters
of mercy accidentally passing the place.

In the same savage and relentless spirit, Montrevel proceeded to extirpate the Huguenots wherever
found. He caused all suspected persons in twenty-two parishes in the diocese of Nismes to be
seized and carried off. The men were transported to North America, and the women and children
imprisoned in the fortresses of Roussillon.

But the most ruthless measures were those which were adopted in the Upper Cevennes: there nothing
short of devastation would satisfy the marshal. Thirty-two parishes were completely laid waste;
the cattle, grain, and produce which they contained were seized and carried into the towns
of refuge garrisoned by the Royalists--Alais, Anduze, Florac, St. Hypolite, and Nismes--so
that nothing should be left calculated to give sustenance to the rebels. Four hundred and sixty-six
villages and hamlets were reduced to mere heaps of ashes and blackened ruins, and such of their
inhabitants as were not slain by the soldiery fled with their families into the wilderness.

All the principal villages inhabited by the Protestants were thus completely destroyed, together
with their mills and barns, and every building likely to give them shelter. Mialet was sacked
and burnt--Roland, still suffering from his wounds, being unable to strike a blow in defence
of his stronghold. St. Julien was also plundered and levelled, and its inhabitants carried
captive to Montpellier, where the women and children were imprisoned, and the men sent to the
galleys.

When Cavalier heard of the determination of Montrevel to make a desert of the country, he sent
word to him that for every Huguenot village destroyed he would destroy two inhabited by the
Romanists. Thus the sacking and burning on the one side was immediately followed by increased
sacking and burning on the other. The war became one of mutual destruction and extermination,
and the unfortunate inhabitants on both sides were delivered over to all the horrors of civil war.

So far, however, from the Camisards being suppressed, the destruction of the dwellings of the
Huguenots only served to swell their numbers, and they descended from their mountains upon
the Catholics of the plains in increasing force and redoubled fury. Montlezan was utterly destroyed--all
but the church, which was strongly barricaded, and resisted Cavalier's attempts to enter it.
Aurillac, also, was in like manner sacked and gutted, and the destroying torrent swept over
all the towns and villages of the Cevennes.

Cavalier was so ubiquitous, so daring, and often so successful in his attacks, that of all
the Camisard leaders he was held to be the most dangerous, and a high price was accordingly
set upon his head by the governor. Hence many attempts were made to betray him. He was haunted
by spies, some of whom even succeeded in obtaining admission to his ranks. More than once the
spies were detected--it was pretended through prophetic influence--and immediately shot. But
on one occasion Cavalier and his whole force narrowly escaped destruction through the betrayal
of a pretended follower.

While the Royalists were carrying destruction through the villages of the Upper Cevennes, Cavalier,
Salomon, and Abraham, in order to divert them from their purpose, resolved upon another descent
into the low country, now comparatively ungarrisoned. With this object they gathered together
some fifteen hundred men, and descended from the mountains by Collet, intending to cross the
Gardon at Beaurivage. On Sunday, the 29th of April, they halted in the wood of Malaboissière,
a little north of Mialet, for a day's preaching and worship; and after holding three services,
which were largely attended, they directed their steps to the Tower of Belliot, a deserted
farmhouse on the south of the present high road between Alais and Anduze.

The house had been built on the ruins of a feudal castle, and took its name from one of the
old towers still standing. It was surrounded by a dry stone wall, forming a court, the entrance
to which was closed by hurdles. On their arrival at this place late at night, the Camisards
partook of the supper which had been prepared for them by their purveyor on the occasion--a
miller of the neighbourhood, named Guignon--whose fidelity was assured not only by his apparent
piety, but by the circumstance that two of his sons belonged to Cavalier's band.

No sooner, however, had the Camisards lain down to sleep than the miller, possessed by the
demon of gold, set out directly for Alais, about three miles distant, and, reaching the quarters
of Montrevel, sold the secret of Cavalier's sleeping-place to the marshal for fifty pieces
of gold, and together with it the lives of his own sons and their fifteen hundred companions.

The marshal forthwith mustered all the available troops in Alais, consisting of eight regiments
of foot (of which one was Irish) and two of dragoons, and set out at once for the Tower of
Belliot, taking the precaution to set a strict guard upon all the gates, to prevent the possibility
of any messenger leaving the place to warn Cavalier of his approach. The Royalists crept towards
the tower in three bodies, so as to cut off their retreat in every direction. Meanwhile, the
Camisards, unapprehensive of danger, lay wrapped in slumber, filling the tower, the barns,
the stables, and outhouses.

The night was dark, and favoured the Royalists' approach. Suddenly, one of their divisions
came upon the advanced Camisard sentinels. They fired, but were at once cut down. Those behind
fled back to the sleeping camp, and raised the cry of alarm. Cavalier started up, calling his
men "to arms," and, followed by about four hundred, he precipitated himself on the heads of
the advancing columns. Driven back, they rallied again, more troops coming up to their support,
and again they advanced to the attack.

To his dismay, Cavalier found the enemy in overwhelming force, enveloping his whole position.
By great efforts he held them back until some four or five hundred more of his men had joined
him, and then he gave way and retired behind a ravine or hollow, probably forming part of the
fosse of the ancient château. Having there rallied his followers, he recrossed the ravine to
make another desperate effort to relieve the remainder of his troop shut up in the tower.

A desperate encounter followed, in the midst of which two of the royalist columns, mistaking
each other for enemies in the darkness, fired into each other and increased the confusion and
the carnage. The moon rose on this dreadful scene, and revealed to the Royalists the smallness
of the force opposed to them. The struggle was renewed again and again; Cavalier still seeking
to relieve those shut up in the tower, and the Royalists, now concentrated and in force, to
surround and destroy him.

At length, after the struggle had lasted for about five hours, Cavalier, in order to save the
rest of his men, resolved on retiring before daybreak; and he succeeded in effecting his retreat
without being pursued by the enemy.

The three hundred Camisards who continued shut up in the tower refused to surrender. They transformed
the ruin into a fortress, barricading every entrance, and firing from every loophole. When
their ammunition was expended, they hurled stones, joists, and tiles down upon their assailants
from the summit of the tower. For four more hours they continued to hold out. Cannon were sent
for from Alais, to blow in the doors; but before they arrived all was over. The place had been
set on fire by hand grenades, and the imprisoned Camisards, singing psalms amidst the flames
to their last breath, perished to a man.

This victory cost Montrevel dear. He lost some twelve hundred dead and wounded before the fatal
Tower of Belliot; whilst Cavalier's loss was not less than four hundred dead, of whom a hundred
and eighteen were found at daybreak along the brink of the ravine. One of these was mistaken
for the body of Cavalier; on which Montrevel, with characteristic barbarity, ordered the head
to be cut off and sent to Cavalier's mother for identification!

From the slight glimpses we obtain of the man Montrevel in the course of these deplorable transactions,
there seems to have been something ineffably mean and spiteful in his nature. Thus, on another
occasion, in a fit of rage at having been baffled by the young Camisard leader, he dispatched
a squadron of dragoons to Ribaute for the express purpose of pulling down the house in which
Cavalier had been born!

A befitting sequel to this sanguinary struggle at the Tower of Belliot was the fate of Guignon,
the miller, who had betrayed the sleeping Camisards to Montrevel. His crime was discovered.
The gold was found upon him. He was tried, and condemned to death. The Camisards, under arms,
assembled to see the sentence carried out. They knelt round the doomed man, while the prophets
by turn prayed for his soul, and implored the clemency of the Sovereign Judge. Guignon professed
the utmost contrition, besought the pardon of his brethren, and sought leave to embrace for
the last time his two sons--privates in the Camisard ranks. The two young men, however, refused
the proffered embrace with a gesture of apparent disgust; and they looked on, the sad and stern
spectators of the traitor's punishment.

Again Montrevel thought he had succeeded in crushing the insurrection, and that he had cut
off its head with that of the Camisard chief. But his supposed discovery of the dead body proved
an entire mistake; and not many days elapsed before Cavalier made his appearance before the
gates of Alais, and sent in a challenge to the governor to come out and fight him. And it is
to be observed that by this time a fiercely combative spirit, of fighting for fighting's sake,
began to show itself among the Camisards. Thus, Castanet appeared one day before the gates
of Meyreuis, where the regiment of Cordes was stationed, and challenged the colonel to come
out and fight him in the open; but the challenge was declined. On another occasion, Cavalier
in like manner challenged the commander of Vic to bring out thirty of his soldiers and fight
thirty Camisards. The challenge was accepted, and the battle took place; they fought until
ten men only remained alive on either side, but the Camisards were masters of the field.

Montrevel only redoubled his efforts to exterminate the Camisards. He had no other policy.
In the summer of 1703 the Pope (Clement XI.) came to his assistance, issuing a bull against
the rebels as being of "the execrable race of the ancient Albigenses," and promising "absolute
and general remission of sins" to all such as should join the holy militia of Louis XIV. in
"exterminating the cursed heretics and miscreants, enemies alike of God and of Cæsar."

A special force was embodied with this object--the Florentines, or "White Camisards"--distinguished
by the white cross which they wore in front of their hats. They were for the most part composed
of desperadoes and miscreants, and went about pillaging and burning, with so little discrimination
between friend and foe, that the Catholics themselves implored the marshal to suppress them.
These Florentines were the perpetrators of such barbarities that Roland determined to raise
a body of cavalry to hunt them down; and with that object, Catinat, the old dragoon, went down
to the Camargues--a sort of island-prairies lying between the mouths of the Rhône--where the
Arabs had left a hardy breed of horses; and there he purchased some two hundred steeds wherewith
to mount the Camisard horse, to the command of which Catinat was himself appointed.

It is unnecessary to particularise the variety of combats, of marchings and countermarchings,
which occurred during the progress of the insurrection. Between the contending parties, the
country was reduced to a desert. Tillage ceased, for there was no certainty of the cultivator
reaping the crop; more likely it would be carried off or burnt by the conflicting armies. Beggars
and vagabonds wandered about robbing and plundering without regard to party or religion; and
social security was entirely at an end.

Meanwhile, Montrevel still called for more troops. Of the twenty battalions already entrusted
to him, more than one-third had perished; and still the insurrection was not suppressed. He
hoped, however, that the work was now accomplished; and, looking to the wasted condition of
the country, that the famine and cold of the winter of 1703-4 would complete the destruction
of such of the rebels as still survived.

During the winter, however, the Camisard chiefs had not only been able to keep their forces
together, but to lay up a considerable store of provisions and ammunition, principally by captures
from the enemy; and in the following spring they were in a position to take the field in even
greater force than ever. They, indeed, opened the campaign by gaining two important victories
over the Royalists; but though they were their greatest, they were also nearly their last.

The battle of Martinargues was the Cannæ of the Camisards. It was fought near the village of
that name, not far from Ners, early in the spring of 1704. The campaign had been opened by
the Florentines, who, now that they had made a desert of the Upper Cevennes, were burning and
ravaging the Protestant villages of the plain. Cavalier had put himself on their track, and
pursued and punished them so severely, that in their distress they called upon Montrevel to
help them, informing him of the whereabouts of the Camisards.

A strong royalist force of horse and foot was immediately sent in pursuit, under the command
of Brigadier Lajonquière. He first marched upon the Protestant village of Lascours, where Cavalier
had passed the previous night. The brigadier severely punished the inhabitants for sheltering
the Camisards, putting to death four persons, two of them girls, whom he suspected to be Cavalier's
prophetesses. On the people refusing to indicate the direction in which the Camisards had gone,
he gave the village up to plunder, and the soldiers passed several hours ransacking the place,
in the course of which they broke open and pillaged the wine-cellars.

Meanwhile, Cavalier and his men had proceeded in a northerly direction, along the right bank
of the little river Droude, one of the affluents of the Gardon. A messenger from Lascours overtook
him, telling him of the outrages committed on the inhabitants of the village; and shortly after,
the inhabitants of Lascours themselves came up--men, women, and children, who had been driven
from their pillaged homes by the royalist soldiery. Cavalier was enraged at the recital of
their woes; and though his force was not one-sixth the strength of the enemy, he determined
to meet their advance and give them battle.

Placing the poor people of Lascours in safety, the Camisard leader took up his position on
a rising ground at the head of a little valley close to the village of Martinargues. Cavalier
himself occupied the centre, his front being covered by a brook running in the hollow of a
ravine. Ravanel and Catinat, with a small body of men, were posted along the two sides of the
valley, screened by brushwood. The approaching Royalists, seeing before them only the feeble
force of Cavalier, looked upon his capture as certain.

"See!" cried Lajonquière, "at last we have hold of the Barbets we have been so long looking
for!" With his dragoons in the centre, flanked by the grenadiers and foot, the Royalists advanced
with confidence to the charge. At the first volley, the Camisards prostrated themselves, and
the bullets went over their heads. Thinking they had fallen before his fusillade, the commander
ordered his men to cross the ravine and fall upon the remnant with the bayonet. Instantly,
however, Cavalier's men started to their feet, and smote the assailants with a deadly volley,
bringing down men and horses. At the same moment, the two wings, until then concealed, fired
down upon the Royalists and completed their confusion. The Camisards, then raising their battle-psalm,
rushed forward and charged the enemy. The grenadiers resisted stoutly, but after a few minutes
the entire body--dragoons, grenadiers, marines, and Irish--fled down the valley towards the
Gardon, and the greater number of those who were not killed were drowned, Lajonquière himself
escaping with difficulty.

In this battle perished a colonel, a major, thirty-three captains and lieutenants, and four
hundred and fifty men, while Cavalier's loss was only about twenty killed and wounded. A great
booty was picked up on the field, of gold, silver, jewels, ornamented swords, magnificent uniforms,
scarfs, and clothing, besides horses, as well as the plunder brought from Lascours.

The opening of the Lascours wine-cellars proved the ruin of the Royalists, for many of the
men were so drunk that they were unable either to fight or fly. After returning thanks to God
on the battle-field, Cavalier conducted the rejoicing people of Lascours back to their village,
and proceeded to his head-quarters at Bouquet with his booty and his trophies.

Another encounter shortly followed at the Bridge of Salindres, about midway between Auduze
and St. Jean du Gard, in which Roland inflicted an equally decisive defeat on a force commanded
by Brigadier Lalande. Informed of the approach of the Royalists, Roland posted his little army
in the narrow, precipitous, and rocky valley, along the bottom of which runs the river Gardon.
Dividing his men into three bodies, he posted one on the bridge, another in ambuscade at the
entrance to the defile, and a third on the summit of the precipice overhanging the road.

