The sum of all was, that for a most difficult and dangerous work, faithfully and successfully
performed by Whitelocke, he had little thanks and no recompense from those who did employ him;
but, not long after, was rewarded by them with an injury: they put him out of his office of
Commissioner of the Great Seal, because he would not betray the rights of the people, and,
contrary to his own knowledge and the knowledge of those who imposed it, execute an ordinance
of the Protector and his Council as if it had been a law. But in a succeeding Parliament, upon
the motion of his noble friend the Lord Broghill, Whitelocke had his arrears of his disbursements
paid him, and some recompense of his faithful service allowed unto him.

His hopes were yet higher, and his expectation of acceptance was from a superior to all earthly
powers; to whom only the praise is due, of all our actions and endeavours, and who will certainly
reward all his servants with a recompense which will last for ever.

July 9, 1654.

[SN: A familiar letter.]

I received this letter from my brother Willoughby:--

    "For my Lord Whitelocke, at Chelsea, humbly these.

    "My Lord,

    "I being this day commanded by the two within-named persons in your
    letter to consummate their nuptials, and in that to bear the part of
    a father, am so confident of my power, as (were it not my Lord
    Whitelocke's request, whose interest with them exceeds a mock
    father) he might be assured of not failing of his commands; but that
    done which this morning I am going about, I am by them desired to
    jog on to Stanstead, so that I fear I shall by that means be
    disappointed of attending you upon Wednesday; and that, I assure
    you, will go to Nancy's heart, she being yesterday resolved to have
    visited you this morning at Chelsea, had she not apprehended your
    early being in town; but wherever we are, our thankfulness to God
    for your safe return you shall not fail of, nor of the keeper
    tomorrow night. So I rest,

                                    "My Lord,
                  "Your affectionate brother to serve you,
                                               "WILL. WILLOUGHBY.
    "July."

I have inserted this and other letters, that you may observe the change of styles and compliments
in the change of fortunes and conditions.

July 10, 1654.

I had been several times to visit my Lord Lambert since my coming home, he being a person in
great favour with the army, and not without some close emulation from Cromwell; but his occasions
were so great, that I could not meet with him. I therefore desired the Earl of Clare, who was
very intimate with Lambert, to contrive a conveniency for my meeting with my Lord Lambert,
whereupon he sent me this letter, directed

    "For the Lord Whitelocke, at Chelsea.

    "My Lord,

    "Hearing your Lordship had been several times to see my Lord Lambert
    and missed, and I desiring that there should be no mistakes between
    you, I sent Mr. Bankes to signify so much to his cousin Lambert,
    who, being come this morning to town, says he will be very glad to
    see your Lordship about two this afternoon, and Mr. Bankes will wait
    on your Lordship to him, if you please to be in the Park, in the
    walk between the elms on this side the water. So I rest

                  "Your Lordship's humble servant,
                                                          "CLARE."

I met Mr. Bankes at the time appointed, who brought me to my Lord Lambert, and he received
me with great civility and respect; we had much discourse together about Sweden, and Germany,
and Denmark, and the business of my treaty; and we parted with all kindness, and he desired
to have my company often.

July 11, 1654.

I received this letter from my Lady Pratt:--

    "For my ever-honoured friend the Lord Whitelocke, these humbly.

    "My Lord,

    "Hearing that it is absolutely in your power to dispose of the time
    of the Assizes, and an unexpected accident being fallen out, which,
    will make them extremely prejudicial to us if they begin so soon, my
    humble suit to your Lordship is to defer them till, etc. This
    favour, as it will be an extraordinary great one, so it will lay a
    suitable obligation upon,

                  "My Lord, your most humble servant,
                                                 "MARGARET PRATT."

I could not gratify this lady's desire, being not yet sworn a Commissioner of the Great Seal;
but I returned her a civil answer and excuse; and I have inserted the more letters, that you
may see the style and compliments of divers persons, and note their change upon the change
of times.

July 12, 1654.

[SN: A more formal letter.]

I received this letter from the Lord Chief Baron Wylde:--

    "For the Right Honourable the Lord Ambassador Whitelocke, these, at
    Chelsea.

    "Right Honourable and my very good Lord,

    "It is not my happiness to be in place or condition to wait upon
    your Lordship, as I would, to present my humble service to you, and
    the gratulations due for your safe and happy return, for your long
    and hazardous, but I hope successful journey, wishing the honour and
    happiness which belongs to your most known deservings may ever
    attend you, with a reward from above for those inestimable favours
    by which you have for ever obliged me to you and all that is mine;
    who, after the long course I have run, through all the degrees of my
    laborious calling, my services to my country and the Commonwealth,
    my great losses and sufferings for the public, and the discharge of
    my duty in all my several trusts and employments, have now the
    hoped-for comfort of all removed from me, and a dark shadow cast
    upon me, with all the sad consequences thereof to me and mine, and
    many others that have dependence on me. But God gives and takes, and
    is able to restore; His help I trust in, and shall still desire the
    continuance of your Lordship's undoubted favours, whose health and
    happiness I shall ever pray for, who am,

                                    "My Lord,
                  "Your Lordship's most faithful servant,
                                                     "JOHN WYLDE.
    "Hampstead, 12th July, 1654."

This gentleman was very laborious in the service of the Parliament, and stiff for them, and
had sustained great losses and hatred by adhering in all matters to them. He was learned in
his profession, but of more reading than depth of judgement; and I never heard of any injustice
or incivility of him. The Parliament made him Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer, which place
he executed with diligence and justice; yet upon the alteration made by Cromwell, when he assumed
the Protectorship, in the nomination of officers he left out Mr. Sergeant Wylde from being
Chief Baron or any other employment,--a usual reward, in such times, for the best services.
He entreated me to move the Protector on his behalf, which I did, but to no effect, the Protector
having a dislike of the Sergeant, but the ground thereof I could not learn.

[SN: Whitelocke's influence in Oxfordshire.]

Most places were full of trouble about their elections of Parliament men. I had recommended
my son James to some of my friends in Oxfordshire, for one of the knights for that county,
myself being chosen for the city of Oxford and for the borough of Bedford, and one of the knights
for Bucks. I had at this time such an interest in Oxfordshire, that upon my account my son
James was chosen for one of their knights for the Parliament, as appears by this letter to me:--

    "For the Right Honourable his dear Father the Lord Commissioner
    Whitelocke, at Chelsea, these. Haste, haste.

    "Dear Sir,

    "I held it my duty, upon the instant of the conclusion of the
    elections at this place, to acquaint you that I am chosen one of the
    knights for the county in the next Parliament. I am told that the
    number of voices might justly have given the first place to me; but
    I freely resigned it to Lieutenant-General Fleetwood, not suffering
    it to be brought to trial by the poll, which many of the country
    desired. The persons elected are Lieutenant-General Fleetwood, Mr.
    Robert Jenkinson, Colonel Nathaniel Fynes, Mr. Lenthall, Master of
    the Rolls, and myself.

    "Many of your friends appeared really for me, amongst which I can
    experimentally say none acted more effectually than my cousin
    Captain Crooke, his father, and brother. The city of Oxford was
    prepared very seasonably for me, wherein my cousin Richard Crooke's
    affections did particularly appear; and I conceive that if you shall
    be pleased to waive the election for the city of Oxford, no truer
    friend could be commended by you for their choice than my cousin
    Richard Crooke, in regard of his interest there, if you think it
    fit. I shall say no more at present in this haste, but expect your
    commands in all things, who am

                                    "Your most obedient son,
                                                  "J. WHITELOCKE.
    "Oxford, July 12, 1654."

The gentlemen of Oxfordshire did generally manifest great civility and respect to me in this
business of my son; so did the citizens of Oxford; and the scholars were not behindhand in
the expression of their favour and good opinion of me and my son, and they stood stoutly and
generally for my son to be one of the knights for the county. Thus was my interest at this
time sufficient to make another to be knight of the shire; yet when my condition fell, my interest
fell with it, and I was looked upon as a stranger among them. Such is the course and vicissitude
of worldly things; therefore put no trust in them.

July 13, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke summoned to resume the Commissionership of the Great Seal.]

This Order of the Council was brought unto me:--

    "Thursday, the 13th of July, 1654.

    "AT THE COUNCIL AT WHITEHALL: Ordered, by his Highness the Lord
    Protector and the Council, that the Lord Commissioner Whitelocke do
    attend the Council tomorrow morning, to take his oath as one of the
    Lords Commissioners for the Great Seal, and that the rest of the
    Lords Commissioners do then also attend with the Seal.

                                           "HENRY SCOBELL,
                                           "Clerk of the Council."

Some of my friends thought it very long before this order was made, and looked upon it as some
neglect to me, whereof I was likewise sensible, but had no remedy; only it seemed hard that
after so perilous an undertaking, performed, through the blessing of God, faithfully and successfully
on my part, my requital should be a neglect of me and my services. Yet it pleased God to give
me much patience and temperance to bear this slighting and ingratitude, and I knew the condition
of him from whom it came, who, when his turn was served, usually forgot the instruments.

July 14, 1654.

[SN: Receives the Seal.]

According to the Council's Order, the Lords Commissioners Lisle and Widdrington attended with
the Seal at Whitehall, and I was there also. We were all called into the Council, where the
Protector himself was sitting at the upper end of the table with his hat on, and the Council
all uncovered. He made a short and grave speech, how much I had deserved from the Commonwealth
by the great and faithful services I had performed for them, particularly in the treaty with
Sweden. That in my absence, the custody of the Great Seal being to be disposed of, the Council
and himself having good experience of my fidelity and abilities for that great trust, and as
a testimony of their favour to me, they thought fit to nominate me for one of the Commissioners
of the Seal. And I being now, through the mercy of God, safely returned again into this Commonwealth,
they had appointed this time for me to take the oath of a Commissioner of the Great Seal, as
the rest of the Commissioners had done before.

I then desired to see the oath, which was shown to me, and finding it to be the same that I
had taken before, I took it now again; and after that, the Protector took the Great Seal in
his hand and delivered it to me and the other Commissioners, and so we did withdraw with it.
Sir Thomas Widdrington seemed a little distasted that I was the first Commissioner, named before
him, which was done when I was out of England, and, I suppose, because I was then Ambassador
Extraordinary in their actual service. We went away together to consult about the business
of the Seal, and I sought to win Sir Thomas Widdrington by my civility to him.

July 15, 1654.

[SN: Entry of certain goods.]

I employed my brother Wilson to the Commissioners of the Customs, to get the copper which I
had brought from Sweden, and some deal boards, to be discharged of paying custom, they being
my particular goods, concerning which my brother Wilson gave me this account by his letter;
and also, touching the arrears of my salary as Commissioner of the Great Seal during my absence
out of England, and for one term since my coming home.

    "For the Right Honourable the Lord Commissioner Whitelocke, these;
    Chelsea.

    "May it please your Lordship,

    "This morning I waited on the Commissioners of the Customs with your
    Lordship's letter, who expressed much readiness to answer your
    expectation about the Customs of the copper and deal boards, had it
    been in their power, their commission not exceeding a bill of store
    for forty shillings. But I am to wait on the Commissioners at
    Whitehall for regulating the Customs, on Tuesday morning (who sit
    not till then); they have power to grant the custom thereof, and
    carrying the letter from your Lordship, I question not but will take
    effect, and so they have acquainted me; which letter I send
    enclosed, that you may please in the superscription to add to the
    word Commissioners, 'for regulating, etc.,' which then will be fit
    to present to the said committee. In the meantime I have procured an
    order to go to work upon the small vessel, which cannot well be done
    until you are pleased to send word what shall be done with the
    deals, they being uppermost. If the barge be not ready, if you think
    fit, I will hire a lighter and load her therewith, which may convey
    them to Queenhithe or Chelsea, otherwise it will be less charge for
    a barge to take them in from the ship; your Lordship's pleasure
    shall be observed in all.

    "I acquainted the Commissioners of the Customs of an order your
    Lordship had for £1000, which they acquainted me should be paid as
    soon as brought to them; since which I have received it from Mr.
    Earle, which I also send enclosed, that you may please to put your
    name underneath it, that so receipt may be made over it after their
    form, and on Monday it will be paid.

    "My humble service to my Lady, I beseech you, present. I shall await
    your Lordship's answer, and ever remain

                  "Your Lordship's most obliged servant,
                                                   "SAMUEL WILSON.
    "London, this 15th July, 1654."

I ordered a Henley barge to take in the deal boards from the ship, and to carry them to Fawley
Court, which was done; and there I made use of them for new flooring my hall and for wainscoting
of it. They were extraordinary good boards, and those of the floor were about two inches thick.
There they are, and there may they long continue, for the use of me and my children; and may
they put us in mind to bless God for his goodness to me in that voyage, and in my safe return
to that place, and of all his preservations and mercies to me and my company!

I returned order to my brother Wilson, to be careful of receiving my money from the Commissioners
of the Customs.

July 16, 1654.

I had some conference with Major G. Disborough, one of the Commissioners for the Ordnance,
about his buying for the State the copper which the Queen of Sweden gave me, and I brought
over from thence, being two hundred and fifty ship-pound. I desired that some merchants might
look upon it, who had experience in that commodity; and what they should agree to be a reasonable
price for it, I should be content to take it; and so we concluded.

July 17, 1654.

[SN: Sale of copper.]

My brother Wilson gave me this account touching my moneys and copper:--

    "For the Right Honourable the Lord Commissioner Whitelocke, these;
    at Chelsea.

                                  "London, the 17th July, 1654.

    "May it please your Lordship,

    "I sent this morning to receive your moneys at the Custom-house, and
    they say there is no more due to your Lordship than £750 for three
    terms, as is expressed in the receipt enclosed, which they have
    made. I would not receive it until I knew your pleasure, which, if
    this sum doth agree with what is your due, you may please to put
    your name to the enclosed receipt from them, and it will be paid in
    the morning. The order also I send back, that you may please to take
    off your name from it and send it again by the bearer.

    "In the morning we shall work upon the ship, and I shall wait on the
    Committee at Whitehall, for the custom and excise of the copper to
    be free, which will come to £240. I hope I shall prevail, and shall
    always remain

                  "Your Lordship's humble servant,
                                                  "SAMUEL WILSON."

There was a mistake by the Commissioners of the Customs about my money, which I rectified,
and had the £1000 paid to my brother Wilson for my use. Touching the copper, I at length contracted
with Major G. Disborough, who bought it for the Protector, and gave me £2500 for it, which
was justly paid unto me; and the copper was employed to make brass ordnance for the ships,
and was excellent good, and no ill bargain.

[SN: Mr. Henry Elsing.]

I received a letter from Mr. Henry Elsing, late  Clerk of the Parliament, and the best clerk
in my judgement that ever I knew, to take the sense of the House and put it in apt terms. He
was an excellent scholar,--had the Italian, French, and Latin languages; a very honest and
ingenious man, and fitter for much better employment than to be Clerk of the Parliament. He
was my faithful and kind friend, and I owe very much of affection and gratitude to the memory
of this worthy gentleman. He was in great and deserved favour of the House of Commons, and
gave over his place because he would not meddle in the business about the trial of the King.
He often invited Mr. Selden and me together to his house to dinner, where we had great cheer,
and greater learning in excellent discourse, whereof himself bore a chief part. I was the more
frequent with him, being godfather to one of his sons, and Mr. Selden the other godfather,
which brought us two the oftener together to his house, to see our godson; and even in such
meetings as these I gained very much of knowledge from the most learned and rational discourses
of Mr. Selden.

FOOTNOTES:

