Henry. Exactly the way I found my dog. He was in the garden with a great stick tied to his
tail, all over mud and dirt; but I cleaned him, and now I would not part with him for a guinea.

Kitty. Suppose, Nancy, we let him out: I think he seems very tame.

Nancy. I really do not think he is very tame; we have not had him a day yet.

Fanny. Well! but if he was to be let out, tame or not tame, what do you think he would do?

Henry. Why jump off, and run away, to be sure. Are you such a stupid creature, not to know that?

Here the conversation was interrupted by a squeak from the further corner of the room. The
case was this: Kitty, like an obstinate girl, had come to my cage, and, while Nancy was looking
another way, opened my door; upon which I walked out very composedly, and should have staid
on the table, had she not screamed in such a manner as quite startled me. I jumped off, and
ran under her chair. The whole company started up, and ran toward Kitty, who began to cry,
conscious of its being her fault; but presently Nancy desired her not to cry, as there was
no harm done; for I had run into the dear girl's hand, the moment she stooped to try to catch
me. The young folks now departed. When I was put into my cage again, (after having received
two kisses from Nancy, for being so tame,) she brought me some food, and let me take a little
rest after my fright. In short, I lived a fortnight in the happiest manner I could have wished.
But, alas! one day, as Nancy was playing with me, (without my chain,) the murderer of my predecessor
entered. I was so shocked, that in two jumps I was out of the window, which two jumps I shall
regret as long as I live; for I never was happier than at the good Mrs. Grevilles. I ran, as
fast as I possibly could, close by the wall, till I came to some fields, where I climbed up
a tree, and stayed in it till night; when a company of thieves coming to divide their spoils,
laid a cloth and went to supper, which, when they had finished, they went to sleep on their
backs, all in a row. I then ventured to come down, and see what I could find to eat; which
was nothing but a piece of bread, which I carried into the tree, and eat very heartily.

CHAPTER III.

When I had finished it, I amused myself with chucking nuts, (of which there was plenty in the
tree, though I did not notice them before,) into the men's mouths, as they lay asleep. The
nuts rattling against their teeth awakened them: but I continued these pranks too long; for
day beginning to appear, they had an opportunity of seeing who it was that thus tormented them.
They vowed revenge, which I did not mind, not being aware of traps; but, however, the next
morning, I found myself caught so fast, I could not get loose. One of the men came and took
me, and after giving me two or three good blows, carried me to his little boy. The boy luckily
loved money better than squirrels, so went and sold me at a shop where they buy and sell all
sorts of birds and animals. Here I led a quiet but stupid life, shut up in a cage, till somebody
chose to buy me. However, in about a week's time after I had been there, a lady and her daughter
went by the shop, and seeing me, the little girl begged her mamma would ask the price of me,
which she did; and the man surprised me greatly, by asking four shillings for me, as he only
gave the boy sixpence, who sold me to him. The lady said that was rather too much, and that
she would give him three shillings. Upon hearing this, as the man made no answer, the little
girl said, "Well then, mamma, if you will give three shillings, I will give the other; so you
will send it home to my mamma's house, (giving him her direction,) and there is your money."
You may be sure she left me no less happy than she seemed herself; for the thoughts of getting
once more into such hands as Mrs. Grevilles, made me forget all former troubles. In about an
hour I was sent home, where, as soon as my former master was out of the house, I had the pleasure
of hearing the lady lay down the following conditions.

1st. That if any thing whatever should make her forget to give me, twice a day, my victuals,
I was to be sent away.

2nd. She was never to let me out, except Mrs. Dixon (her mamma) was in the room, and gave her
permission.

3rd. She was never to trust me with any body, till I had been in the house three weeks; at
which time the second condition would be void.

To these conditions Sally cheerfully subscribed, and ran directly to get me some food. I will
give you some little account of her, which, perhaps, may banish that wonder you otherwise might
have expressed at some few things you are going to hear. She was in general very willing to
learn, and sometimes to do as she was bid; but still she was very subject to be giddy, (not
to give it a harsher name,) which often brought her into disgrace. She had a brother about
ten years old, who was so fond of mischief, he often got a whipping. He went to school at Southampton.
My young mistress was no sooner well settled with me, than she wrote him a letter, to acquaint
him of it. I think I may as well give it you, word for word, as I became acquainted with it
as it lay by my cage.

  "My dear George,

  "I have news to tell you, both good and bad; and I do not know
  which to tell you first. But the bad news I think will do
  better first, as, if that overcomes you, I may recover you by
  telling you the good news. Your pretty rabbit is dead: I went
  to give him his food yesterday morning, and found him dead.
  You don't know how sorry I was, but it cannot be helped now.
  Now for the good news: Mamma has bought me the prettiest
  squirrel, his name is Scug; you will be quite delighted with
  him. Mamma desires me to tell you, she hopes to see you next
  Wednesday. Having nothing more to say, I must now conclude
  this, from

  "Your affectionate sister,

  "Sarah Dixon."

I lived very happily this whole week, when Master George came home, who, I suppose, thinking
his sister had killed his rabbit, he thought he would kill her squirrel, as will presently
be made known. He presented her with a chain of paper, which he said he had made at school
on purpose for her squirrel. She put it on me directly, and presently Mrs. Dixon going out
of the room, gave him an opportunity of executing his wicked design. He ran to the fire and
lighted a piece of paper, which he held near my chain, with a view (as he said) to find out
a little hole, where the padlock should go in. At last, while his sister was not looking, he
set fire to it, and alas! being filled with gunpowder, (which his sister never had the least
idea of,) it blew up with a violent explosion, and singed me sadly. Sally burst into tears,
and catching up the inkhorn, which stood on the table, discharged its contents in his face.
The combined reports of the gunpowder, Sally screaming, and George blubbering, soon brought
Mrs. Dixon, who, when she came into the room, stared with astonishment, as well she might,
at the confusion every thing was in. I all this time was in a corner of the room, where the
sudden explosion had made me jump, not daring to move, terrified with the thoughts of a second
shock; Sally continued crying; and George was doing, nobody could tell what, for his face was
so black, you could not tell whether he was laughing or crying. The first thing Mrs. Dixon
did, was to take me up and put me in my cage; she then called a servant, and told him to take
me to Miss Cummins, with Sally's love, and beg her to accept me. Sally then fell on her knees
and begged I might not be sent away, saying it was all George's fault, which George confessed
it was, and that he only did it for a piece of fun! "Fun," cried Mrs. Dixon with astonishment,
"and did you really think it fun! to burn and frighten a poor little animal. I wonder at you,
indeed, George." She then left them, hoping George would mind what she said. I was now more
caressed by little Sally than ever, who always took care to give me plenty of food, and when
she had any cake or any other nice thing, she always let me partake of it. So that I lived
very happily all the rest of the time I was at her house, and most probably should have lived
as long again as I did, had it not been for her brother. He was to go to school, in about three
days time, so was determined to have one more good piece of fun (as he called it) before he
went. He procured a squirt, and filled it full of ink; he then bored a hole in the wainscot
of the room where he was, quite through into the room where I was. All things being prepared,
he waited till his sister came to let me out, which, as soon as she had done, he let off the
whole in my face; at least attempted to do it, for I believe Sally and I were pretty equal
sharers. A violent scream, more from surprise than hurt, soon brought Mrs. Dixon, who, upon
coming in and seeing Sally and myself all over ink, and nobody else in the room, could not
conceive what had made us so; till, supposing it was one of George's tricks, she ordered him
to be called. George came in trembling, but his mamma would not suffer him to speak, and as
his fare clearly showed his guilt, she ordered his things to be packed up, and him to be sent
to school the next day. George then cried sadly, but his mamma said she had had so many proofs
of his disposition, that she would trust him no longer. She then went out of the room, which
George perceiving, snatched me out of my cage, and most probably would have killed me, had
I not, by a very great effort, bit his thumb in such a manner, that he let me go, and roared
enough to frighten any body. His sister and he then went to fighting, and I jumped out of the
window; for the fright I was in made me not know what I did, or I should not have left such
a kind mistress, especially as my tormentor was going away; but it was now too late to return.

CHAPTER IV.

After running a great way, I heard a violent noise, which alarmed me very much. I could not
think what it was, but approaching nearer and nearer, it proved to be a company of gipsies,
making merry as they were travelling. I took great care to avoid them, as I knew, if I had
once got into their hands, I should not have got away very easily; so I climbed a tree and
sat very quiet. I came down as soon as they were gone, and ran till I came to the city of London,
which was not above half a mile from where I lived; for Mrs. Dixon's house was at Islington,
at least very near it. Here I had no very great chance of hiding myself, so resolved to run
up one of the houses, and get in at the first window I found open, and trust to the temper
of some little boy or girl, rather than starve. The house I chanced to ascend belonged to Alderman
Bumble. I happened to enter the window of Miss Henrietta Bumble's chamber; so I crept into
her cap, which was lying in a chair, and lay till she wanted to put it on. I chanced to lay
in such a manner, that she distinguished me as she lay in bed; and bouncing out, she took me
up and ran down stairs undressed. The alderman and his lady were waiting breakfast for her.
As soon as she entered, the alderman started up and said, "Bless me, Henny, what can you want
here in such a figure;" "O Papa," said she, "here is the prettiest squirrel (but I should have
told you I had found means to wash off the ink I had received in my last abode,) and where
do you think I found him--lying in my cap, as snug as it was possible." "Well, my love," said
the alderman, "run up and dress yourself, and then come and tell us about your squirrel." Henny
then ran up stairs, tied me to the bed-post, and began to dress. When she had done, she untied
me, and carried me down stairs. "Now," said the alderman, "you look something more like a human
creature: let us hear your story." "Well then," said Henrietta, "this is the case: I was just
going to get up, when I saw this pretty squirrel in my cap; and how it came there, I am sure
I cannot tell. He never offered to stir, but lay very quiet till I took him out. Do let me
have a cage for him." "Well, my dear," replied her mamma, "you shall have a cage for him, and
a very nice one too." "Look'ye," said the alderman, "she shall not have a cage: it would be
throwing money away." "I say she shall have a cage," said the lady, "as sure as my name is
Sukey Bumble, while I have a crown in my pocket." "Well," said the alderman, "I see I must
yield: so I am to get you money to spend in cages. Henny, my love, (continued he,) let me look
at it." Henny, however, kept it in her hand, in which she was seconded by her mother, who said,
"That's right, my girl, do not part with it." Henrietta was standing so near the alderman,
he thought, with a little effort he might snatch it from her; but being very bad with the gout,
he overbalanced himself, and down he came. Mrs. Bumble with great difficulty raised him, which,
as soon as she had done, he hobbled up to Henrietta, took me from her by force, and barbarously
cut off near half an inch of my tail with a pair scissars. Henrietta burst into tears, Mrs.
Bumble began scolding him, when a servant came in, whom she desired to go to Crooked-lane,
and procure one of the very best cages that could be got. The Alderman stormed; his lady raved;
and Henrietta cried. Mrs. Bumble said she would be minded, and giving the man a guinea, told
him, if it came to more, to pay it. "What," continued she, "would you have an alderman's lady
send for a sixpenny wicker cage, to keep a squirrel in. No, by no means in the world; and you
ought to be ashamed of yourself to have maimed a poor defenceless creature, only because you
fell out of the chair." As there were a great many questions and answers, I think it would
be best to give them to you in the manner they were delivered by the parties.

Alderman. Why now, was not the squirrel the cause of my fall. Did I not, in attempting to get
the squirrel, fall off my chair? and therefore, was not the squirrel the cause of my fall.

Lady. Suppose it was: but what business had you to try to get the squirrel, and then to revenge
yourself in such a shameful manner. I wish to my heart he had bit you.

Alderman. I am much obliged to you, however, for the wish, my dear; but of the two, I would
rather he had let it alone.

Henrietta. I am sure it would have served you right.

Alderman. Come here Henrietta, (pinching her ears) so you think it would have served me right,
do you? I like every body to be served right, and I think I am now serving you right.

Henrietta. Oh!

Alderman. Pray, Miss, mind what you say another time, or you will get into disgrace, depend
upon it.

The servant coming in at this instant, put a stop to what Mrs. Bumble was going to say. She
had opened her mouth in the greatest rage, but the servant giving her a shilling, as change
out of the guinea, and giving Henrietta the cage, she was forced to shut it. I had now the
sad fortune to be put into a cage, exactly resembling that in which I lived at Mrs. Howard's.
I had no sooner entered my new habitation, than I was set to work, and kept at it almost an
hour; at which time the alderman pulled Henrietta away by force. A coach stopping at the door,
hindered any dispute that might have arisen from the treatment of the alderman; for out jumped
four young ladies, and two young gentlemen, who had been invited to spend the evening. Their
names were, John and Emily Shepherd, James and Caroline Churchill, Eliza Careful, and Fanny
Fairchild. The usual compliments being over, the following conversation ensued.

CHAPTER V.

Emily. Bless me, Henrietta, where did you get that pretty squirrel.

Henrietta. Ay, where now do you think I got that pretty squirrel? Why, Emily, if I was to tell
you to guess a hundred times, you would never find it out. I found it in my cap yesterday morning,
as I was going to dress.

Caroline. Where?

Emily. No, surely!

James and John. In your cap?

Henrietta. Yes, I did, I assure you. I was going to put it on, but I saw what was in it, and
mamma was so kind as to buy me that nice cage. You cannot think how prettily he goes round.
You shall see him presently.

Fanny. Oh dear, Henrietta, I have a sad tale to tell you. You know the pretty canary bird the
baker gave me; well, what do you think William did? he cut off half its tail, and part of its
wings.

Henrietta. Why, that was nothing to what my papa did. He is not in the room, so I can safely
tell you; he cut off half my squirrel's tail with his scissars, as coolly as if he had been
peeling an orange.

All the party. How cruel!

Henrietta. And all because he fell down, in endeavouring to get it.

Emily. And so he revenged himself on the Squirrel, that was not right.

Fanny. Right! indeed I think not; he deserved to have had his great toe cut off, and then he
might have been better able to judge, by the pain he felt, how the squirrel liked the cutting
off his tail. I think I never heard any thing so barbarous.

James. I say, Jack, let us have some fun with this lop-tail squirrel: while they are talking,
they will not see us.

John. Ay, so we will.

They then proceeded to action. The young ladies were so busy, they did not see these two mischievous
boys, till they had set me on Eliza's head; who giving a violent scream, alarmed the whole
company. Emily, in getting up in a hurry, overturned Fanny, who was not sitting quite steadily
in her chair; she gave her a blow, which Emily returned, and confusion was the word for near
an hour; when peace was restored by the entrance of the alderman and his lady, who, after having
in vain tried to learn the cause of the bustle, proposed a game at cards. James and Caroline
desired to set out, so, while the rest of the company were at cards, they amused themselves
by tormenting me. At last tired by constant exercise, and irritated by James, who pricked me
with his toothpick whenever I attempted to rest, I waited for a good opportunity, and as he
laid his finger close to my cage, (while he was talking to some of the card party) I gave him
a bite he has remembered ever since, I dare say. It so exasperated him, that he pricked me
now more than ever; and Caroline joined him in persecuting me. I had once or twice attempted
to bite her, which she was aware of; but James dropping his toothpick into my cage, made me
watch well, as I knew one of them would try to take it out. At last Caroline ventured, and
just as she put her finger in, somebody spoke to her, and she forgot to take it out, till the
pain she felt from one of my bites made her withdraw it rather hastily. The scream she gave
so startled the alderman, that he overset the card table upon his lady; the girls jumped up,
the boys laughed, I went round and caused a violent ringing: so that they, who before were
so desirous that I should do it, were now more desirous I should stand still. The alderman
often attempted to speak, but my ringing entirely drowned his voice; till at length enraged,
he came to my cage, and having pulled me out, and flung me into a corner of the room, where
I staid very quietly, he began to pull off the bells, which hung over the cage; which, when
he had done, he tossed them, one by one, to the company, telling them, if they were fond of
the noise they might make it themselves, and then the only difference would be, "it would be
made by monkeys instead of squirrels." The alderman then went out of the room, Henrietta put
me into my cage, and peace was once more restored. And now all their proceedings were stopped,
by the arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Churchill, who were come to take their young folks home, and
offer a place in the coach to the rest of the party. Away they went, to my great joy. Henrietta
now bewailed the loss of her bells in such violent terms, that the alderman told her, if she
did not cease, he would send the squirrel to Miss Lee. Upon which Mrs. Bumble started up in
a rage, "It shall not be done:" said she, "it was a scandalous thing of you to break the bells,
but I shall take care to send for new ones." "Not while the servants are mine," said the alderman.
His lady made no reply, but rang the bell, a servant appeared. "John," said she, "take this
where you bought it, and get new bells put on." "John," said the alderman, "if you do, you
may as well take your wages in your hand. But you will receive them when you come back, so
it is the same thing." John then went, and contrived to get it done by somebody else, so that
he might oblige both master and mistress. The alderman having found out it had been done, got
up one morning very early, packed me up in my cage, and sent me by the coach into Lincolnshire,
to a Miss Huntley, one of his relations. Here I lived a short, but happy life; I was constantly
fed, very seldom exercised contrary to my inclinations, and, in short, lived so happily, I
thought it exceeded, if possible, the kind treatment I met with at the good Mrs. Greville's.

CHAPTER VI.

But soon was my happiness put an end to. Very near my mistress, lived a young gentleman, whose
name was Eaton, who, though nearly fourteen years of age, and a very clever youth, delighted
in mischief; and though he did not mean it, he sometimes did things very unworthy a gentleman.

This young fellow no sooner found Miss Huntley kept a squirrel, than he resolved to be possessed
of me. I afterwards found his reason for so doing, was only "because he thought, if he took
it to school with him, it might cause some fine sport." The next day was fixed for his departure;
and, as he was very intimate with Miss Huntley, he said he would came and drink tea with her
once more before he went to school. He came, admired me greatly, and, after tea, said he would
play with me. The window happened to be up, so, while they were talking, and not looking at
him, he slily put me into his pocket, buttoned it, and giving a great shriek, said I had jumped
out of the window. Poor Isabella Huntley was very much vexed. He said there was no hopes of
getting it, as it travelled at such a rate, he supposed it would be ten or twelve miles off
by the next day. He told truth, for, as he was going the next day, he would be much farther
than twelve miles; and so should I also, as I went in his pocket. He soon after took his leave,
leaving Isabella very sorrowful, little thinking where her squirrel was. He went to school
very early the next day, and I travelled all the way in his pocket. Luckily I found a few cherries
and a cake, or most probably I should not have lived to my journey's end. We arrived at the
Rev. Mr. Clarkson's academy, I cannot tell at what time; let it suffice, that when he got there,
he took me out, and tied a piece of string round my neck, while he showed me to his schoolfellows!
He then asked, if any body had a cage to sell. They none of them had one, except one boy, who
came and said he would sell his, but that it would put him to a great inconvenience, as he
had a bird in it at present, and could not sell it under three shillings; for he knew Eaton
would buy it, let it cost what it would. He therefore tried to make the most of it. Eaton paid
him the money, and put me in it. Here I had to perform my tricks before all the boys, four
or five times a day, and was liable to all the insults they chose to bestow upon me. Indeed,
a boy did once hit me a terrible blow with an apple. In about a week, the money Eaton had brought
with him to school, was all gone; he then had recourse to selling me. He offered me in my cage
for two shillings. Nobody would give it. At last a boy came to him and offered tenpence for
me. Eaton, in a rage, hit him a box on the ear, and sent the boy away crying. At last, finding
nobody would give more, he went to the boy he had struck, whose name was Bentley, asked his
pardon, and said he should have me for tenpence. Bentley now refused, saying, that as he had
been struck, he would give no more than sixpence. At this time, the man who used to come with
cakes and apples for the boys to buy, came into the play-ground. Eaton took up a tart, and
holding his hand out to Bentley, said: "Come, you may as well give me tenpence;" but Bentley
held out sixpence, and said he would give no more. Eaton then tried to knock it out of his
hand, but instead of his succeeding, the tart fell and was broke to pieces. Eaton looked red.
"Come," said Bentley, "though you refused so often, perhaps you may be inclined to take sixpence
now." Eaton was not long determining, but snatched the sixpence and gave me into Bentley's
hands. He carried me directly into his chamber, and having given me some food, put me on his
window seat. I lived very comfortably with him for a few days; till one day a boy named Smart,
who, I afterwards learnt, was hired by Eaton, opened the window and put me out. I ran along
the tiles, trembling, a great way, before I saw any window open where I might shelter myself.
At last a boy spied me, and getting up to me with a ladder, I surrendered immediately. The
boy, thinking he could sell me at the school better than at any other place, went there; and
Bentley seeing me, before any of the boys said what they would give, offered the boy eighteenpence
for me, which he accepted, and left me once more in good hands. He now took more care of me
than ever, intending to take me home with him at the holidays; but an accident which happened
soon after, made his good intention totally useless. One of his schoolfellows, named Hawkins,
who slept in his room, had, it seems, long wished for me. He had tried various stratagems,
none of which had turned out to his advantage: at last he thought of the following. He put
his bottle and wash-hand bason in the way of my cage, so that when Bentley came to take me
out, he threw them down, and broke them into a thousand pieces. Hawkins hearing the noise came
up, and the following dialogue I distinctly heard, as I sat on Bentley's arm.

Hawkins. So, Bentley, you have broke my bason. How could you be so careless.

Bentley. It was rather careless, I must own; but who would have thought of a bottle and bason
being so near a squirrel-cage, as to be broken when I went to take out my squirrel.

Hawkins. Nobody could have thought it; but you should look before you do things in such a hurry.
I suppose you intend to pay me for it.

Bentley. That I would very willingly do, if I had money. If you will trust me, I will give
you my week's pay till the whole debt is paid.

Hawkins. And so I am to stay a month or more, while you pay me at your leisure. It was all
owing to your want of attention, and I am to suffer for it.

Bentley. As to being owing to my want of attention, I don't see it in the least. It certainly
was not a proper place for a bottle and bason. I think it must have been put there on purpose.

Hawkins. Pray, Sir, am I to be accountable to you for the place where I choose to put my bottle
and bason. Suppose I put it there on purpose, have not I a right?

Bentley. A most undoubted one. But then, if it is broken, you have no right to scold about
it, as it was through your own means it became so.

