To-morrow there would be several hundred dollars more, and the next day more, and so on always,
and what was she doing, or what had she planned to do, to give proper direction to these tidal
waves of wealth? She had bought a new dish-pan and ordered a door repaired!

To be sure, it was very soon to begin to think of the expenditure of her income, but it was
a question which could not be postponed. The importance of it was increasing all the time.
Every five minutes she was two dollars richer.

For a moment she wished herself back in Paris or New York. There she might open some flood-gate
which would give instant relief from the pressure of her affluence and allow her time to think;
but what could she do in Plainton? At least, how should she begin to do anything?

She got up and walked about the room. She was becoming annoyed, and even a little angry. She
resented this intrusion of her wealth upon her. She wanted to rest quietly for a time, to enjoy
her home and friends, and not be obliged to think of anything which it was incumbent upon her
to do. From the bottom of her heart she wished that her possessions had all been solid gold,
or in some form in which they could not increase, expand, or change in any way until she gave
them leave. Then she would live for a week or two, as she used to live, without thought of
increment or responsibilities, until she was ready to begin the life of a rich woman and to
set in motion the currents of her exuberant income.

But she could not change the state of affairs. The system of interest had been set in motion,
and her income was flowing in upon her hour by hour, day by day, steadily and irresistibly,
and her mind could not be at rest until she had done something--at least, planned something--which
would not only prevent her from being overwhelmed and utterly discouraged, but which would
enable her to float proudly, on this grand current of absolute power, over the material interests
of the world.

Mrs. Cliff was a woman of good sense. No matter how much money she might possess, she would
have considered herself its unworthy possessor if she should spend any of it without proper
value received. She might spend it foolishly, but she wanted the worth of her money. She would
consider it a silly thing, for instance, to pay a thousand dollars for an India shawl, because
few people wore India shawls, and she did not care for them; but if she had done so, she would
have been greatly mortified if she found that she had paid too much, and that she might have
bought as good a shawl for seven hundred and fifty dollars.

Since she had been in that room and thinking about these things, enough interest had come to
her to enable her to buy a good silver watch for some deserving person. Now, who was there
to whom she could give a plain silver watch? Willy Croup would be glad to have it, but then
it would be better to wait a few hours and give her a gold one.

Now it was that Willy came into the room with a disappointed expression upon her countenance.

"I was just coming in to tell you," she said, "that I was ready now to go up and help you open
the trunks, but here comes that horrid Miss Shott, and dear knows how long she will stay!"

Nancy Shott was the leading spinster of Plainton. In companies where there were married ladies
she was sometimes obliged to take a second place, but never among maidens, old or young. There
were very few subjects upon which Miss Shott had not an opinion; and whatever this opinion
might be, she considered it her first duty in life to express it. As a rule, the expression
was more agreeable to her than to others.

When Mrs. Cliff heard that Miss Shott was approaching, she instantly forgot her wealth and
all her perplexities concerning it. Miss Shott had not called upon her the previous evening,
but she had not expected her, nor did she expect her now.

On her previous visit to Plainton, Mrs. Cliff had been shamefully insulted by Miss Shott, who
had accused her of extravagance, and, by implication, of dishonesty, and in return, the indignant
widow had opened upon her such a volley of justifiable retaliation that Miss Shott, in great
wrath, had retired from the house, followed, figuratively, by a small coin which she had brought
as a present and which had been hurled after her.

But Mrs. Cliff knew that her acrimonious neighbor could never be depended upon to do anything
which might be expected of her, and she was not quite so much surprised as she was annoyed.
Of course, she had known she must meet Nancy Shott, and she had intended to do nothing which
would recall to the mind of any one that she remembered the disagreeable incident referred
to, but she had not expected that the meeting would be in private.

She knew that Nancy would do something decidedly unpleasant. If she had stayed away because
she wanted a chance to re-open the previous quarrel, that would be bad enough; but if she had
determined to drop all resentment and had come prepared to offer honey and sugar, and thus
try to make a rich friend out of one she had considered as a poor enemy, that would be still
more disagreeable. But by the time the visitor had entered the parlor, Mrs. Cliff had made
up her mind to meet her as if nothing unpleasant had ever happened between them, and then to
await the course of events. She was not at all pleased with the visit, but, notwithstanding
this, she had great curiosity to know what Miss Shott had to say about the change in her circumstances.

Nancy Shott was different from other people. She was capable of drawing the most astounding
inferences and of coming to the most soul-irritating conclusions, even on subjects which could
not be otherwise than pleasant to ordinary people.

"How do you do?" said Miss Shott, offering her hand. "I am glad to see you back, Mrs. Cliff."

Mrs. Cliff replied that she was quite well and was glad to be back.

"You are not looking as hale as you did," said the visitor, as she seated herself; "you must
have lost a good many pounds, but that was to be expected. From what I have heard, South America
must be about as unhealthy a place as any part of the world, and then on top of that, living
in Paris with water to drink which, I am told, is enough to make anybody sick to look at it,
is bound to have some sort of an effect upon a person."

Mrs. Cliff smiled. She was used to this sort of talk from Nancy Shott. "I am better than I
was two years ago," she said, "and the last time I was weighed I found that I had gained seven
pounds."

"Well, there is no accounting for that," said her visitor, "except as we grow old we are bound
to show it, and sometimes aging looks like bad health, and as to fat, that often comes as years
go on, though as far as I am concerned, I think it is a great misfortune to have more to carry,
as you get less and less able to carry it."

Mrs. Cliff might have said that that sort of thing would not be likely to trouble Miss Shott,
whose scantily furnished frame was sure to become thinner and thinner as she became older and
weaker, but she merely smiled and waited to hear what would come next.

"I do not want to worry you," said Miss Shott; "but several people that were here last night
said you was not looking as they had hoped to see you look, and I will just say to you, if
it is anything connected with your appetite, with a feeling of goneness in the mornings, you
ought to buy a quassia cup and drink the full of it at least three times a day."

Miss Shott knew that Mrs. Cliff absolutely detested the taste of quassia. Mrs. Cliff was not
annoyed. She hoped that her visitor would soon get through with these prefatory remarks and
begin to take the stand, whatever it might be, which she had come there that morning to take.

"There has been sickness here since you last left," said Miss Shott, "and it has been where
it was least to be expected, too. Barney Thompson's little boy, the second son, has had the
diphtheria, and where he got it nobody knows, for it was vacation time, and he did not go to
school, and there was no other diphtheria anywhere in all this town, and yet he had it and
had it bad."

"He did not die?" said Mrs. Cliff.

"Oh no, he got over it, and perhaps it was a bad case and perhaps it was not; but you may be
sure I did not go near it, for I considered it my duty to keep away, and I did keep away, but
the trouble is--"

"And did none of the other children take it?" asked Mrs. Cliff.

"No, they didn't. But the trouble is, that when diphtheria or anything like it comes up suddenly
like this, without any reason that nobody can see, it is just as likely to come up again without
any reason, and I am expecting to hear every day of another of them Thompson children being
stricken down; and I was very sorry indeed, Mrs. Cliff, to see, this very morning, Willy Croup
coming out of Barney Thompson's house and to hear from her afterwards that she had been to
order him to come here to put up a new kitchen door, which I do not suppose is absolutely needed,
and even if it is, I am sure I would wait a good while before I would have Barney Thompson
come into my house with diphtheria, that very minute, perhaps, in the throats of one or maybe
more of his children; but of course, if people choose to trifle with their own lives, it is
their own business."

"It was not real diphtheria," said Willy Croup, who happened to be passing the open door at
this moment; "it was only a bad sore throat, and the child was well in two days."

"I suppose, of course," said Miss Shott, "that if the disease did get into this house, Willy
Croup would be the first to take it, because she is such a spongy person that she takes almost
anything that is in the air and is not wholesome; but then you would not want to lose her,
and after a funeral in the house, no matter whose it may be, things is always gloomy for a
long time afterwards, and nobody can feel easy if it was a catchin' disease that the person
died of."

Mrs. Cliff was naturally desirous to hear all the domestic news of the town, but she would
have liked to have had something pleasant thrown in among the gloomy tidings of which Miss
Shott had made herself the bearer, and so she made a little effort to turn the conversation.

"I shall be glad to go about and see my old friends and neighbors," she said, "for I am interested
in everything which has happened to them; but I suppose it will be some days before I can settle
down and feel ready to go on in the old way. It seems to me as if I had been on the move ever
since I left here, although, of course, I was not travelling all the time."

"I suppose nobody has told you," said Miss Shott, "that Edward Darley has ploughed up that
little pasture of his and planted it with young apple trees. Now, it does seem to me that for
a man like Edward Darley, who comes of a consumptive family, and who has been coughin' regularly,
to my certain knowledge, for more than a year, to go and plant apple trees, which he can't
expect to live to see bear fruit, is nothing more or less than a wicked waste of money, time,
and labor. I suppose if I was to go and tell him so he would not like that, but I do not know
as I ought to consider it. There are people in this world who'll never know anything if they're
not told!"

Five other topics of the town, each of a doleful nature and each indicating an evident depravity
in a citizen of Plainton, were related by Miss Shott, and then she arose to go.

"I hope you'll remember what I told you about Thompson's children," she said, as she walked
to the front door, "and if I was you, I'd have that kitchen fumigated after he has put the
door in!"

"There now!" said Miss Shott to herself, as she proudly walked down the street. "The Widow
Cliff can't say I've done any toadying; and, no matter what she's got, and what she hasn't
got, she can't say to herself that I consider her any better able to give me twenty-five cents
than she was when she was here before; or that it makes any difference to me whether she has
much or little!"

CHAPTER IV

A LAUNCH INTO A NEW LIFE

It required the greater part of two days for Mrs. Cliff and Willy to open the seven trunks,
and properly display and dispose of the various articles and goods, astonishing in their variety
and beauty, and absolutely amazing when the difference between the price paid for them and
what they would have cost in New York was considered.

During these fascinating operations it so happened that at one time or another nearly all of
Mrs. Cliff's female friends dropped in, and all were wonderfully impressed by what they saw
and what they heard; but although Miss Shott did not come there during the grand opening, it
was not long before she knew the price and something of the general appearance of nearly everything
that Mrs. Cliff had brought with her.

Among the contents of the trunks were a great many presents for Mrs. Cliff's friends, and whenever
Miss Shott heard of one of these gifts, she made a remark to the effect that she had not a
doubt in the world that the Widow Cliff knew better than to bring her a present, for she would
not want the thing, whatever it was, whether a glass pitcher or a pin-cushion, flung back at
her after the fashion that she had set herself at a time when everybody was trying their best
to be kind to her.

It was clearly a fact, that through the influence of the seven trunks Mrs. Cliff was becoming
a very popular woman, and Miss Shott did not like it at all. She had never had any faith--at
least she said so--in those lumps of gold found in a hole in some part of the world that nobody
had ever heard of; and had not hesitated to say that fortunes founded on such wild-goose stories
as these should not even be considered by people of good sense who worked for their living,
or had incomes which they could depend on. But the dress goods, the ribbons, the gloves, the
little clocks, the shoes, the parasols, the breast-pins, the portfolios of pictures, the jewelry,
the rugs and table covers, and hundreds of other beautiful and foreign things, were a substantial
evidence that Mrs. Cliff's money was not all moonshine.

It was very pleasant for Mrs. Cliff to bring out her treasures to display them to her enthusiastic
friends, and to arrange them in her house, and to behold the rapturous delight of Willy Croup
from early morn until bed-time.

But the seven empty trunks had been carried up into the garret, and now Mrs. Cliff set her
mind to the solution of the question--how was she to begin her new life in her old home? It
must be a new life, for to live as she had lived even in the days of her highest prosperity
during her husband's life would be absurd and even wicked. With such an income she must endeavor
as far as was possible to her to live in a manner worthy of it; but one thing she was determined
upon--she would not alienate her friends by climbing to the top of her money and looking down
upon them. None of them knew how high she would be if she were to perch herself on the very
top of that money, but even if she climbed up a little way, they might still feel that they
were very small in her sight.

No, the money should always be kept in the background. It might be as high as the sky and as
glorious as a sunset, but she would be on the ground with the people of Plainton, and as far
as was possible, they should all enjoy the fine weather together.

She could not repress a feeling of pride, for she would be looked upon as one of the principal
persons--if not the principal person--in Plainton; but she could not believe that any real
friend could possibly object to that.

If her husband had lived and prospered, it was probable he would have been the principal man
in Plainton, the minister always excepted; but now there was no reason whatever why any one
should object to her being a principal personage, and, in this case, she could not see why
the minister's wife should be excepted.

But Plainton was to be her home; the Plainton people were to be her friends. How should she
set about using her money in such a way that she should not be driven forth to some large city
to live as ordinary wealthy people live, in a fashion to which she was utterly unsuited, and
which possessed for her no attractions whatever?

Of course, she had early determined to devote a large sum to charitable purposes, for she would
have thought herself a very unworthy woman if her wealth had not benefited others than herself,
but this was an easy matter to attend to. The amount she had set aside for charity was not
permanently invested, and, through the advice of Mr. Perley, there would be no difficulty in
devoting this to suitable objects. Already she had confidentially spoken to her pastor on the
subject, and had found him enthusiastic in his desire to help her in every possible way in
her benevolent purposes. But who was there who could help her in regard to herself? Who was
there who could tell her how she ought to live so as to gain all the good that her money should
give her, and yet not lose that which was to her the highest object of material existence,--a
happy and prosperous life among her old friends in her native town?

Should she choose to elevate herself in the social circle by living as ordinary very rich people
live, she could not hope to elevate her friends in that way, although she would be glad enough
to do it in many cases, and there would be a gap between them which would surely grow wider
and wider; and yet here was this money coming in upon her in a steady stream day by day, and
how was she going to make herself happier with it?

She must do that, or, she believed, it would be her duty to hand it over to somebody else who
was better adapted by nature to use it.

"If I did not take so much pleasure in things which cost so little and which are so easy for
me to buy," said poor Mrs. Cliff to herself, "or if I did not have so much money, I am sure
I should get on a great deal better."

Mrs. Cliff's belief that she must not long delay in selecting some sort of station in life,
and endeavoring to live up to it, was soon strengthened by Willy Croup. During the time of
the trunk opening, and for some days afterwards, when all her leisure hours were occupied with
the contemplation and consideration of her own presents, Willy had been perfectly contented
to let things go on in the old way, or any way, but now the incongruity of Mrs. Cliff's present
mode of living, and the probable amount of her fortune, began to impress itself upon her.

"It does seem to me," said she, "that it's a sin and a shame that you should be goin' about
this house just as you used to do, helpin' me upstairs and downstairs, as if you couldn't afford
to hire nobody. You ought to have a girl, and a good one, and for the matter of that, you might
have two of 'em, I suppose. And even if it wasn't too much for you to be workin' about when
there's no necessity for it, the people are beginnin' to talk, and that ought to be stopped."

"What are they talking about?" asked Mrs. Cliff.

"Well, it's not everybody that's talkin'," returned Willy, "and I guess that them that does
gets their opinions from one quarter, but I've heard people say that it's pretty plain that
all you got out of that gold mine you spent in buyin' the things you brought home in your trunks;
for if you didn't, you wouldn't be livin' like this, helpin' to do your own housework and cookin'."

In consequence of this conversation, a servant-of-all-work was employed; for Mrs. Cliff did
not know what she would do with two women until she had made a change in her household arrangements;
and with this as a beginning, our good widow determined to start out on her career as a rich
woman who intended to enjoy herself in the fashion she liked best.

She sent for Mr. Thompson, the carpenter, and consulted with him in regard to the proposed
additions to her house, but when she had talked for a time, she became disheartened. She found
that it would be necessary to dig a new cellar close to her present premises; that there would
be stones, and gravel, and lime, and sand, and carts and horses, and men, and dirt; and that
it would be some months before all the hammering, and the sawing, and the planing, and the
plastering, and tinwork could be finished, and all this would be going on under her eye, and
close to her ears during those first months in which she had proposed to be so happy in her
home. She could not bear to give the word to dig, and pound, and saw. It was not like building
a new house, for that would not be near her, and the hub-bub of its construction would not
annoy her.

So she determined she would not begin a new dining-room at present. She would wait a little
while until she had had some good of her house as it was, and then she would feel better satisfied
to live in the midst of pounding, banging, and all-pervading dust; but she would do something.
She would have the fence which separated the sidewalk from her front yard newly painted. She
had long wanted to have that done, but had not been able to afford it.

But when Mr. Thompson went to look at the fence, he told her that it would be really a waste
of money to paint it, for in many places it was old and decayed, and it would be much wiser
to put up a new one and paint that.

Again Mrs. Cliff hesitated. If that fence had to be taken down, and the posts dug up, and new
posts put in, and the flower-bed which ran along the inside of it destroyed, it would be just
as well to wait until the other work began and have it all done at once; so she told Mr. Thompson
he need not send a painter, for she would make the old fence do for a while.

Mrs. Cliff sighed a little as the carpenter walked away, but there were other things to do.
There was the pasture lot at the rear of her garden, and she could have a cow, and there was
the little barn, and she could have a horse. The idea of the horse pleased her more than anything
she had yet thought of in connection with her wealth.

In her days of prosperity it had been her greatest pleasure to drive in her phaëton with her
good brown horse, generally with Willy Croup by her side; to stop at shops or to make calls
upon friends, and to make those little excursions into the surrounding country in which she
and Willy both delighted. They had sometimes gone a long distance and had taken their dinner
with them, and Willy was really very good in unharnessing the horse and watering him at a brook,
and in giving him some oats.

To return to these old joys was a delightful prospect, and Mrs. Cliff made inquiries about
her horse, which had been sold in the town; but he was gone. He had been sold to a drover,
and his whereabouts no one knew.

So she went to Mr. Williams, the keeper of the hotel, who knew more about horses than anybody
else, and consulted with him on the subject of a new steed. She told him just what she wanted:
a gentle horse which she could drive herself, and one which Willy could hold when she went
into a house or a shop.

