The head of the Nairne clan, a John Nairne, third Baron Nairne, had fought for the Stuarts
in 1745. He died an exile in France. Of how close kin to him was the young Highland Officer,
John Nairne, who settled later at Malbaie, we do not know. His family was of course Jacobite.
In "Waverley" Sir Walter Scott mentions a Miss Nairne with whom he says he was acquainted,
and this lady appears to have been one of the sisters of Captain John Nairne. In 1745, as the
Highland army rushed into Edinburgh, Miss Nairne was standing with some ladies on a balcony,
when a shot, discharged by accident from a Highlander's musket, grazed her forehead. "Thank
God," she said, "that the accident happened to me whose principles are known; had it befallen
a Whig [the name then identified with the anti-Jacobite party] they would have said it was
done on purpose."[4] At Murray Bay there is still a miniature portrait of Prince Charlie given
it is said by himself to Miss Nairne.

Before fighting under Wolfe John Nairne had followed the Dutch flag. Just before the rising
of 1745, when a youth of only 17, he, like a great many others of his countrymen, is found
serving in the well known "Scots Brigade"; many years later at Malbaie, he tells in his letters,
of old companions in this service with well known Scottish names--Bruce, Maclean, Seton, Hepburn,
Campbell, Dunbar, Dundass, Graham, and so on. In the pay of Holland Nairne remained for some
nine years. He made, he says, "long voyages" possibly to the Dutch possessions in the far East.
But he was glad of the chance to serve his own land which came when Britain, embarked upon
the Seven Years' War, was anxious to recall her banished sons and to find soldiers, Scots or
of any other nationality, who would fight her battles. So John Nairne left the Dutch service
to join the 78th Highlanders and henceforth his loyalty to the house of Hanover was never questioned.
From the first, since Scotland offered only a poor prospect of a career, Nairne may have thought
of remaining in the new world when the war should end. The Highlander of that day, like the
Irishman, found better chances abroad than at home. Unlike Nairne, Malcolm Fraser, a younger
man, had not seen foreign service. The two met for the first time when, in 1757, they both
joined the 78th Highlanders. Soon they became fast friends and for nearly half a century they
were to live in the closest relations.

Fraser's Highlanders had landed at Halifax in Nova Scotia in June, 1757. Their dress seemed
unsuited to both the severe winters and the hot summers of North America and a change of costume
was proposed; but officers and men protested vehemently and no change was made. During the
campaigns in America the Highlanders boasted, not with entire truth as we shall see, that they
with their bare legs enjoyed better health than those who wore breeches and warm clothing.
At Louisbourg they did well. At Quebec a Highland officer's knowledge of French proved a great
boon. When, in the darkness of the momentous morning of September 13th, 1759, Wolfe's boats
were drifting down with the tide close to the north shore near Quebec, intending to land and
scale the heights at what is now Wolfe's Cove, a French sentry called out sharply from the
bank, "Qui vive?" A Highland officer, who had served in Holland, was able to reply "France!"
without betraying his nationality.

"A quel régiment?" demanded the sentry.

"De la reine," answered the Highlander, giving the name of a well-known French regiment commanded
by Bougainville; and then he added in a low voice, "Ne faites pas de bruit; ce sont les vivres"--for
a convoy with provisions was expected by the French. The Highlanders were at the forefront
in the stiff climb up the heights which proved to be Wolfe's master stroke. Malcolm Fraser
has left his own account of that morning's work. The troops, he says, had been in the boats
since nine o'clock on the previous night. At about twelve they had set out with a falling tide
and they landed just as day was breaking. The light infantry struggled up the hill first, the
French meanwhile firing on the boats, killing and wounding some of the occupants; but "the
main body of our army soon got to the upper ground, after climbing a hill or rather a precipice,
of about three hundred yards, very steep and covered with wood and brush." By ten the army
was drawn up in order of battle,--"in a masterly manner," John Nairne said later,--on the Plains
of Abraham, the bag-pipes of the Highlanders screaming a wild defiance to the foe. Then followed
that brief death grapple, fatal to the leader on each side. Fraser and his Highlanders, we
are told, rushed at the enemy with their broadswords in such irresistible fury that they were
driven with a prodigious slaughter into the town. The Highlanders suffered as much after the
battle as in it, for General Murray led them to reconnoitre in the direction of the General
Hospital and a good many were shot by the French from bushes and from houses in the suburbs
of St. Louis and St. John. To the French the Highlanders seemed especially ferocious, possibly
owing to the wild music of their pipes, their waving tartans, their terrible broadswords, and
perhaps, also, their partially naked bodies. They were indeed christened "the savages of Europe."

Not many days after Wolfe's victory the Highlanders marched into Quebec with the victorious
army. The French garrison was sent away to Europe, the British fleet itself soon followed,
and the conquerors, with General Murray in command, settled down to face for the first time
the rigours of a winter at Quebec. The Highlanders suffered terribly. One suspects that, in
spite of their protests, the Highland costume was ill-suited to meet the severity of the climate;
and, in any case, the army was ill-fed, ill-housed, and overworked. Malcolm Fraser kept a journal,[5]
but Nairne, the other future seigneur at Malbaie, the most methodical of men, was less ready
with the pen and appears to have made no chronicle of those slow but momentous days. The bitter
weather was the dread enemy. Fraser tells how men on duty lost fingers and toes and some were
even deprived of speech and sensation in a few minutes through "the incredible severity of
the frost.... Our regiment in particular is in a pitiful situation having no breeches. Nothing
but the last necessity obliged any man to go out of doors." Colonel Simon Fraser is, he adds,
doing his best to provide trousers. Pitying nuns observed the need and soon busied themselves
knitting long hose for the poor strangers. The scurvy carried off a good many. In April, 1760,
of 894 men in Fraser's Highlanders not fewer than 580 were on the sick list and it was a wan
and woe-begone host that set itself grimly to the task of meeting the assault on Quebec for
which the French under Lévis had been preparing throughout the winter.

When it came on April 28th, 1760, the Highlanders were not wanting. Instead of fighting behind
Quebec's crazy walls Murray marched his men out to the Plains of Abraham to meet the enemy
in the open. On ground half covered by snow, with here and there deep pools of water from the
heavy rain of the previous day, the two armies grappled in what was sometimes a hand to hand
conflict. Of the British one-third had come from the hospital to take their places in the ranks.
The proportion of the Highlanders who did this was even greater; half of them rose on that
day from sick beds. It proved a dark day for Britain. Murray was defeated, losing about one-third
of his army on the field. Four of the Highland officers were killed, twenty-three were wounded,
among them Colonel Simon Fraser himself. Malcolm Fraser was dangerously wounded; but he tells
us gleefully that within twenty days he was entirely cured. Nairne seems to have gone through
the fight without a hurt. It was surely by a strange turn of fortune that men, some of whom
fought against George II in '45 and had been condemned as traitors, should fifteen years later
shed their blood like water for the same sovereign. Malcolm Fraser was disposed to be critical
of Murray's tactics. He ought to have stood like a wall on the rising ground near Quebec, says
Fraser; but "his passion for glory getting the better of his reason he ordered the army to
march out and attack the enemy ... in a situation the most desired by them and [that] ought
to be avoided by us as the Canadians and Savages could be used against us to the greatest advantage
in their beloved ... element, woods." Nearly half a century later when Malcolm Fraser was giving
advice to a young officer, Nairne's son, he advised him not to be too critical of the actions
of his superiors. The confident young diarist of 1760 had meanwhile learned reserve. But he
was not alone among the Highlanders in his criticism of Murray. A Murray led at Culloden in
April, 1746, as at Quebec in April, 1760. Lieutenant Charles Stewart was wounded in both battles;
as he lay in Quebec surrounded by brother officers he said, "From April battles and Murray
generals, Good Lord deliver me." It is to General Murray's credit that, when the remark was
repeated to him, he called on his subordinate to express the hope for better luck next time.

A little later Quebec was saved by the arrival of a British fleet and the French fell back
on Montreal. Murray followed them but the Highlanders remained in garrison at Quebec, apparently
because, with half the officers and men invalided, they could make but a poor muster for active
campaigning. It thus happened that Nairne and Fraser did not share the glory of being present
at the fall of Montreal. There, on a September day in 1760, the Governor of Canada, the Marquis
de Vaudreuil, handed over to General Amherst, the Commander-in-Chief in America of the armies
of Great Britain, the vast territory which he had ruled. It was not certain, albeit the great
Pitt was resolved what to do, that, when the war ended, the country would not be handed back
to France. The French officers professed, indeed, to believe that a peace was imminent by which
France should save what she held in America. Meanwhile, however, they and their regiments were
to be sent to France. The few residents at Malbaie whom Captain Gorham had spared, looking
out across the river in October, 1760, saw it dotted with the white sails of many ships outward
bound. Though they floated the British flag, their decks were crowded with the soldiers of
France now carried home by the triumphant conqueror.

But more than the soldiers went back to France. Rather than live under the sway of the British,
many civilians also left Canada, among them some of the seigneurs of Canadian manors. Land
was cheap in Canada and it is not to be wondered at that young British officers, seeking their
fortune, should have thought of settling in the country. A hundred years earlier French officers
of the Carignan Regiment had abandoned their military careers to become Canadian seigneurs.
In the end John Nairne and Malcolm Fraser took up this project most warmly and in their plan
to get land they had the support of their commanding officer, General Murray. Murrays, Nairnes
and Frasers had all fought on the Jacobite side in 1745; and we know how the Scots hold together.

James Murray, son of a Scottish peer, Lord Elibank, was himself still a young man of only a
little more than thirty,--a high-spirited, brave, generous and impulsive officer. His family
played some considerable part in the life of the time and they were always suspected of Jacobite
leanings. Murray's brother, Lord Elibank, was a leader among the Scottish wits of his day.
Dr. Johnson's famous quip against the Scots when he defined oatmeal as a food in England for
horses and in Scotland for men was met by Elibank's neat retort: "And where will you find such
horses and such men?" Another brother, Alexander, was a forerunner of John Wilkes the radical;
the cry of "Murray and Liberty" was heard in London long before that of "Wilkes and Liberty."
A third brother, George became an admiral. General James Murray sometimes described himself
as a soldier of fortune. He was certainly not rich. Yet now when many of the Canadian seigneurs
sold their manors, in some way Murray was able to purchase half a dozen of these vast estates.
He bought that of Lauzon opposite Quebec on which now stands the town of Levis and half a dozen
villages. He bought St. Jean and Sans-Bruit (now Belmont), near Quebec, Rivière du Loup and
Madawaska, on the lower St. Lawrence, and Foucault on Lake Champlain.

To Nairne and Fraser, brave young Scots, who had done good service, Murray was specially attracted.
Nairne, though only a lieutenant, till 1761, when he purchased a captaincy, was his junior
by but a few years; Lieutenant Malcolm Fraser was three years younger than Nairne. The young
men were seeking their fortunes but since they had very little money to buy estates, as Murray
did, they could not expect to get land in the more settled parts of the country. For them Malbaie
was a promising field and in September, 1761, they went down to have a look at it. The property
was vested in the government, for which Murray could act. It was not wholly untrodden wilderness,
for some land was cleared and a good deal of live stock still remained. The houses too had
not been entirely destroyed by Gorham's men. The war had not yet ended. It was still uncertain
whether Britain would hold Canada. But, for the moment, there was little to do. It was possible
that in Canada further opportunities of military service would not be wanting. As seigneurs
in Canada the young officers would retain rank as gentlemen and would not sink to the social
level of mere cultivators of the soil. The experience too of founding settlements in the Canadian
wilderness had compensations. Good sport was always to be had. They could pay at least annual
visits to Quebec for a few weeks, and were, perhaps, hardly more remote from the cultivated
world than some of the chieftains in their own Scottish Highlands.

The survey of Malbaie must have proved satisfactory. It is true, as the young officers said,
that there was an over-abundance of "mountains and morasses," with good land scattered only
here and there. But in their formal proposals to Murray they made this fact the plea for the
grant of a larger area. Nairne apparently had greater resources than Fraser and, being now
a captain, was his senior in rank. He asked for the more important tract lying west of the
little river at Malbaie and stretching to the seigniory of Les Eboulements, Fraser for that
lying east of the river and stretching some eighteen miles along the St. Lawrence to the Rivière
Noire. The grants were to extend for three leagues into the interior. They were to be held
under seigniorial tenure but Nairne asked for 3000 acres of freehold and Fraser for 2000. They
thus close their petition to Murray: "This [request], if his Excellency is pleased to grant,
will make the proposers extremely happy, and they shall forever retain the most grateful remembrance
of his bounty; and [they] hope his Excellency will be pleased in the grant to allow them to
give the lands to be granted such a name as may perpetuate their sense of his great kindness
to them." They got what they asked for. It may indeed be doubted whether Murray had any right
to allot huge areas of land in a country which had not yet been ceded finally to Great Britain,
but any defects of title in this respect were corrected long after by new grants under the
great seal. As it was, Murray wrote on a sheet of ordinary foolscap, still preserved at Murray
Bay, a brief deed of the land[6] and, behold, the two young officers have become landed proprietors!
To their request for permission to use Murray's name, in grateful remembrance of his kindness,
he also assented. Nairne's seigniory was to be called Murray's Bay and Fraser's Mount Murray.
The grants were made because "it is a national advantage and tends to promote the cultivation
of lands within the province to encourage His Majesty's natural-born subjects settling within
the same"; and the consideration was "the faithful services" rendered by the two officers.

A good deal of stock and farm implements remained at Malbaie and this the new proprietors arranged
to buy, giving in payment their promissory notes, Nairne's for £85, 6s. 8d., currency and Fraser,
who got only one-third, his for £42, 13s. 4d. They seem to have had a good deal for their money.
There were a score and a half or so of cattle, four or five horses, (one of them twenty-two
years old), twenty sheep, fourteen pigs, besides chickens and other living creatures. In addition
there were waggons and other farm appliances, most of them probably old and of little use,
though they must have helped to tide over the first difficult days when everything would have
to be provided.

On getting his grant Nairne retired from the army on half pay, but Fraser remained on active
service for many years still. Thus Nairne was the more continuously resident at Murray Bay
and in its development he played the greater part. Fraser's interests were divided, not only
between Murray Bay and the army, but also between Murray Bay and another seigniory which he
secured on the south side of the river at Rivière du Loup and known as Fraserville. For us
therefore the interest at Murray Bay now centres chiefly in Nairne and his family.

[Footnote 3: The name Simon Fraser appears with credit more than once in Canadian history.
It was a Simon Fraser who crossed the Rocky Mountains and first followed for its whole course
the Fraser River named after him.]

[Footnote 4: Waverley, Chapter II.]

[Footnote 5: See Appendix A., p. 249.

In the dining room of the Manor House at Murray Bay Nairne's portrait still hangs. It was painted,
probably in Scotland, when he was an old man, by an artist, to me unknown. The face is refined,
showing kindliness and gentleness in the lines of the mouth, and revealing the "friendly honest
man" that he aspired to be. His nose is big and in spite of the prevailing gentleness of demeanour
the thin lips, pressed together, indicate some vigour of character. He has the watery eye of
old age and this takes away somewhat from the impression of energy. It is not a clever face
but honest, rather sad, and unmistakeably Scottish in type. Nairne wears the red coat of the
British officer and a wig in the fashion of the time. The portrait might be one of a frequenter
of court functions in London rather than that of a hardy pioneer at Murray Bay, who had carried
on a stern battle with the wilderness.

Nairne was a good letter writer. To his kin in Scotland he sent from the beginning voluminous
annual epistles. They are not such as we now write, hurriedly scratched off in a few minutes.
With abundant time at his disposal Nairne could write what must have occupied many days. When
written, the letters were sometimes copied in a book almost as large as an office ledger. It
is well that this was done, for in this book is preserved almost the sole record of the life
at Murray Bay of a century and a half ago. The pages are still fresh and the handwriting, while
not that of one much accustomed to use the pen, is clear and vigorous. The zeal for copying
letters was intermittent. There are gaps, covering many years. Then, for a time, not only the
letters sent, but those received, are copied into the book. In the long winter evenings there
was not much to do. Malcolm Fraser, it is true, lived just across the river at the neighbouring
manor house. But Malcolm was more usually away than not. Besides, as one grows older, there
is no place like one's own fireside of a winter evening. So our good seigneur read and dozed
and wrote and we are grateful that he has told us so much about past days.

Nairne's first visit to Malbaie was, as we have seen, in the autumn of 1761, when he took possession
of his seigniory. Not until the following year was the formal grant made by Murray. Long afterwards,
in 1798, writing to a friend, Hepburn, in Scotland, Nairne recalled his arrival at his future
home. "I came here first in 1761 with five soldiers [alas, we do not know their names!] and
procured some Canadian servants. One small house contained us all for several years and [we]
were separated from every other people for about eighteen miles without any road." He contrasts
this with what he sees about him at the time of writing--a parish with more than five hundred
inhabitants, with one hundred men capable of bearing arms, grist mills, fisheries, good houses
and barns, fertile fields, a priest, a chapel, and so on. The five soldiers of whom Nairne
speaks were no doubt men of the 78th Highlanders and ancestors of a goodly portion of the population
of Malbaie at the present time. Perhaps some of them had fought at Culloden; certainly all
fought at Louisbourg and Quebec.

In the first days at Murray Bay Nairne was in debt. In 1761, probably to purchase his captaincy,
he had incurred a considerable obligation to his friend General Murray; where Murray got £400
to lend him is a mystery, for he was himself always pressed for funds. With everything to do
at Murray Bay, mills to be built, roads to be opened, a manor house to be constructed, it was
not easy to get together any money; for years the debt hung like a mill-stone round Nairne's
neck. But he had always a certain, if small, revenue in his half pay and, in time, he acquired,
chiefly by inheritance, what was, for that period in Canada, a considerable fortune. In 1766,
when Nairne was in Scotland, General Murray, who had himself just arrived from Canada, wrote
urgently to ask for payment. Murray owed to a Mr. Ross £8,000 and could not borrow one shilling
in England on his estates in Canada; so he said "delay will be a very terrible disappointment
to me." But this disappointment he had to bear. In 1770 the debt was still unpaid and may have
remained so for some years longer. Happily the friendship between the former comrades was not
impaired by their financial relations. Murray promised to put Nairne in the way of being "very
comfortable and easy" in Canada, if he would follow his advice, but nothing came of his offer.
For some years after 1761 Nairne thought of returning to Scotland, whither ties of kin drew
him strongly. But his father's death in 1766 or 1767 helped to weaken these ties. In any case
Scotland offered no career and he must do something to pay the debt to Murray and to provide
for himself.

Nairne's chief task as seigneur was to put settlers on his huge tract. The seigneur, indeed,
discharged functions similar to those of a modern colonization company, but with differences
that in some respects favour the older system. Now-a-days the occupier buys the land and the
colonization company gets the best possible price for what it has to sell; it can hold for
a rise in value and, if it likes, can refuse to sell at all. Nairne had no such powers. Under
the law, if a reputable person applied for land, he must let him have it. Settlers required
no capital to buy their land, and, as long as they paid their merely nominal rent, they could
not be disturbed in their holdings. The rent amounted to about one cent an acre, and some twenty
cents or a live capon for each of the two or three arpents of frontage which a farm would have.
The rent charge was uniform and depended not upon the quality of the land or upon the individual
seigneur but upon what was usual in the district; moreover, under the French law, no matter
how valuable the land became, the rent could not be increased and, though so trifling, it was
rarely required until the settler's farm had begun to be productive. Sometimes in a single
year Nairne would put as many as twenty brawny young fellows on his land to hew out homes for
themselves. Each of them got a tract of about one hundred acres and, as the annual rental received
for a dozen farms would be hardly more than twenty dollars, the seigneur reaped no great profit
from his tenants. It was only when a tenant sold a holding, that the seigneur secured any considerable
sum. To him then went one-twelfth of the price. The other chief source of profit, as settlement
increased, was from the seigneur's mill. To it all the occupiers of his land must bring their
grain and pay a fixed charge for its grinding. In scattered settlements the mill brought little
profit and was a source of expense rather than of income. But, as population increased, this
"droit de banalité" became valuable. The mill at Malbaie was, in time, very prosperous.

In Canada the seigneur was not the oppressor of his people but rather their watchful guardian.
He planned roads and other improvements, checked abuses, and enforced justice. At his side
stood, usually, the priest. The moment a parish was established a curé was entitled to the
tithe; near every manor house, the village church was sure to spring up. Even when, as at Malbaie,
the priest and the seigneur were not of the same faith they were often fast friends. Nairne's
relations were good with the neighbouring curé, when, at length, Malbaie had a resident priest.
Each village would thus usually have at least two men of some culture working together for
its spiritual and temporal interests. Both remained in touch with the outside world; the priest
with his bishop at Quebec, the seigneur with the representative there of the sovereign. Upon
each change of governor Nairne was required to appear at Quebec to render fealty and homage.
With head uncovered and wearing neither sword nor spur he must kneel before the governor, and
take oath on the Gospels to be faithful to the king, to be party to nothing against his interests,
to perform all the duties required by the terms of his holding, and, especially, to appear
in arms to defend the province if attacked. We find Nairne excused by General Haldimand in
1781 from discharging this ceremony, but only because he was away on active service.

When Nairne settled at Murray Bay he was unmarried and so, no doubt, were the soldiers he brought
with him. Only after five or six years did he himself find a wife but we may be sure that his
men did not wait so long. What more natural than that they should marry the French Canadian
servants of whom Nairne speaks? A visitor at Murray Bay is struck with names like McNicol,
Harvey, Blackburn, McLean, and one or two others that have a decidedly North British ring.
Some, if not all, are names of one or other of the half dozen soldiers who settled at Murray
Bay in Nairne's time. There was no disbanding there of a regiment, as tradition has it. In
time the 78th Highlanders were disbanded, but certainly not at Murray Bay, and, though hundreds
of them remained in Canada, only a few individual soldiers came to Nairne's settlement. Already
when he arrived French Canadians were there and from the first the community was prevailingly
French and Catholic. In 1784 when joined with Les Eboulements and Isle aux Coudres under a
single priest Malbaie already had 65 communicants. As likely as not some even of the Highlanders
were Catholics. In any case their children became such and spoke French, the tongue of their
mothers; even Nairne's own children spoke only French until they went to Quebec to school.

When, from time to time, a missionary priest visited the place he baptized children of Catholic
and Protestant alike, including even the children of the Protestant family in the manor house.
The only religious services that the people ever shared in were those of the Roman Catholic
Church. Nairne would have wished it otherwise. He held sturdy Protestant views, and wished
to bring in Protestant settlers. On one or more of his visits to Scotland he made efforts to
induce Scots to move to Canada. But he met with no great success. A Scottish friend, Gilchrist,
who had visited Nairne at Murray Bay, writes, in 1775, to express hope that he will not encourage
French settlers who will rob him, who have "disingenuous, lying, cheating, detestable dispositions,"
and are the "banes of society." He adds, "I am glad you give me reason to believe you are to
carry over some industrious honest people from hence with you. I am convinced 'twere easy by
introducing a few such [to bring about that] the dupes to the most foolish and absurd religion
now in the world might be warmed out and your quiet as well as interest established from Point
au Pique to the Lake."[7] The Roman Catholic faith had more vitality than Nairne's correspondent
supposed. It was Protestantism that should in time be "warmed out" of Murray Bay.

To prevent this Nairne did what he could; for a long time he entertained hopes not only that
the Protestants at Murray Bay might be held to their faith but also that the Roman Catholics
would be led into the Protestant fold. His chief complaint against the Roman Catholic Church
was in regard to education. There was woeful ignorance. Nairne was in command of the local
militia and he found that officers of militia, and even a neighbouring seigneur, could not
read. When Roman Catholic services were held at Murray Bay, as they were regularly before he
died, the tongue was one that the people did not understand. At the services there was nothing
"but a few lighted candles, in defyance of the sun, and the priest singing and reading Latin
or Greek.... None of us understands a word." He complains of "the greatest deficiency in preaching
sentiments of morality and virtue." Indeed, very few of the priests could preach or say anything
in public beyond the Latin mass. Nairne tried to secure better means of educating his people.
Probably earlier also, but certainly in 1791, he was writing to the Anglican Bishop of Quebec
to help him to do something. He lives, he says, in "the most Northerly and, I believe, the
poorest parish on the Continent of America." The people cannot read and have no literary amusement.
Their idle days they spend in drunkenness and debauchery and he wishes something done for them.
Ten years later Nairne is returning to the charge. There are five Protestant families in the
neighbourhood. They cannot even be baptized except by the curé. They cannot get any Protestant
instruction; so the Protestant children are reared Roman Catholics. Nairne wished to have a
Protestant clergyman established at Murray Bay; he could make that place his headquarters and
carry on missionary work in the neighbouring parishes. But the five Protestant families at
Murray Bay soon became three, for Nairne says, in 1801, that his and Colonel Fraser's families
and one other man, an Englishman, are the only remaining Protestants. He and Fraser, he adds,
are growing old and, in any case, it was doubtful whether the Englishman would attend service.

Yet Nairne still begged for a Protestant missionary. He desired most of all a free school.
The teacher should be, he says, French but able also to preach in English; there was now no
school at Murray Bay; a free school and a church system which would release the people from
paying tithes could work wonders and, probably, most of the people would soon become Protestants.
Knowing the tenacity with which the French Canadians have clung to their faith, it seems hardly
likely that Nairne's dreams would have been realized. At any rate nothing was done. At that
time there were hardly more than a dozen Anglican clergymen in all Canada and the Bishop of
Quebec had no one to spare to look after the few scattered sheep at Murray Bay. On the other
hand the rival Church did not forget her own. Long before the British conquest occasional services
had been held at Malbaie and these were continued, with some regularity, until a resident priest
came in 1797. The visiting priests worked hard. They were, Nairne says, "industrious in private
to confess the people, especially the women, which branch of their duty is deemed most sacred
and necessary." Against this tremendous power of the confessional, Protestantism had nothing
that could be called an opposing influence. When a Protestant died he might not, of course,
be buried in the Roman Catholic burial ground. For these outcast dead Nairne set aside a plot
near his own house, where, still, under a little clump of trees, their bones lie, neglected
and forgotten. Not more than half a dozen Protestants were ever buried there and this shows
that even the Protestant pioneers were few in number; hardly one of their children remained
outside the Roman Church.

Nairne thought the Canadians not too prone to industry and he deplored the multitude of religious
holidays that gave an excuse for idleness. In a year there were not less than forty, in addition
to Sundays, and on some of the holidays, such as that of the patron saint of the parish, there
were scenes of great disorder. Nairne wrote on the subject to the Roman Catholic Bishop of
Quebec asking him to take steps to ensure that the people might come to think it not sinful
but virtuous to work for six days in the week. The Bishop promised consideration of the matter.
Already it had been under debate and in the end the Bishop gave orders that labour might continue
on most of the Church's festivals; that of the patron saint of the parish was in time abolished.
Nairne thus helped to bring about a considerable industrial reform. But beyond this he achieved
little.

