Gerty Farish was not a close enough reader of character to disentangle the mixed threads of
which Lily's philanthropy was woven. She supposed her beautiful friend to be actuated by the
same motive as herself--that sharpening of the moral vision which makes all human suffering
so near and insistent that the other aspects of life fade into remoteness.  Gerty lived by
such simple formulas that she did not hesitate to class her friend's state with the emotional
"change of heart" to which her dealings with the poor had accustomed her; and she rejoiced
in the thought that she had been the humble instrument of this renewal. Now she had an answer
to all criticisms of Lily's conduct: as she had said, she knew "the real Lily," and the discovery
that Selden shared her knowledge raised her placid acceptance of life to a dazzled sense of
its possibilities--a sense farther enlarged, in the course of the afternoon, by the receipt
of a telegram from Selden asking if he might dine with her that evening.

While Gerty was lost in the happy bustle which this announcement produced in her small household,
Selden was at one with her in thinking with intensity of Lily Bart. The case which had called
him to Albany was not complicated enough to absorb all his attention, and he had the professional
faculty of keeping a part of his mind free when its services were not needed. This part--which
at the moment seemed dangerously like the whole--was filled to the brim with the sensations
of the previous evening.  Selden understood the symptoms: he recognized the fact that he was
paying up, as there had always been a chance of his having to pay up, for the voluntary exclusions
of his past. He had meant to keep free from permanent ties, not from any poverty of feeling,
but because, in a different way, he was, as much as Lily, the victim of his environment. There
had been a germ of truth in his declaration to Gerty Farish that he had never wanted to marry
a "nice" girl: the adjective connoting, in his cousin's vocabulary, certain utilitarian qualities
which are apt to preclude the luxury of charm.  Now it had been Selden's fate to have a charming
mother: her graceful portrait, all smiles and Cashmere, still emitted a faded scent of the
undefinable quality. His father was the kind of man who delights in a charming woman: who quotes
her, stimulates her, and keeps her perennially charming. Neither one of the couple cared for
money, but their disdain of it took the form of always spending a little more than was prudent.
If their house was shabby, it was exquisitely kept; if there were good books on the shelves
there were also good dishes on the table. Selden senior had an eye for a picture, his wife
an understanding of old lace; and both were so conscious of restraint and discrimination in
buying that they never quite knew how it was that the bills mounted up.

Though many of Selden's friends would have called his parents poor, he had grown up in an atmosphere
where restricted means were felt only as a check on aimless profusion: where the few possessions
were so good that their rarity gave them a merited relief, and abstinence was combined with
elegance in a way exemplified by Mrs. Selden's knack of wearing her old velvet as if it were
new. A man has the advantage of being delivered early from the home point of view, and before
Selden left college he had learned that there are as many different ways of going without money
as of spending it. Unfortunately, he found no way as agreeable as that practised at home; and
his views of womankind in especial were tinged by the remembrance of the one woman who had
given him his sense of "values." It was from her that he inherited his detachment from the
sumptuary side of life: the stoic's carelessness of material things, combined with the Epicurean's
pleasure in them. Life shorn of either feeling appeared to him a diminished thing; and nowhere
was the blending of the two ingredients so essential as in the character of a pretty woman.

It had always seemed to Selden that experience offered a great deal besides the sentimental
adventure, yet he could vividly conceive of a love which should broaden and deepen till it
became the central fact of life. What he could not accept, in his own case, was the makeshift
alternative of a relation that should be less than this: that should leave some portions of
his nature unsatisfied, while it put an undue strain on others. He would not, in other words,
yield to the growth of an affection which might appeal to pity yet leave the understanding
untouched: sympathy should no more delude him than a trick of the eyes, the grace of helplessness
than a curve of the cheek.

But now--that little BUT passed like a sponge over all his vows.  His reasoned-out resistances
seemed for the moment so much less important than the question as to when Lily would receive
his note! He yielded himself to the charm of trivial preoccupations, wondering at what hour
her reply would be sent, with what words it would begin. As to its import he had no doubt--he
was as sure of her surrender as of his own.  And so he had leisure to muse on all its exquisite
details, as a hard worker, on a holiday morning, might lie still and watch the beam of light
travel gradually across his room. But if the new light dazzled, it did not blind him. He could
still discern the outline of facts, though his own relation to them had changed. He was no
less conscious than before of what was said of Lily Bart, but he could separate the woman he
knew from the vulgar estimate of her.  His mind turned to Gerty Farish's words, and the wisdom
of the world seemed a groping thing beside the insight of innocence.  BLESSED ARE THE PURE
IN HEART, FOR THEY SHALL SEE GOD--even the hidden god in their neighbour's breast! Selden was
in the state of impassioned self-absorption that the first surrender to love produces. His
craving was for the companionship of one whose point of view should justify his own, who should
confirm, by deliberate observation, the truth to which his intuitions had leaped. He could
not wait for the midday recess, but seized a moment's leisure in court to scribble his telegram
to Gerty Farish.

Reaching town, he was driven direct to his club, where he hoped a note from Miss Bart might
await him. But his box contained only a line of rapturous assent from Gerty, and he was turning
away disappointed when he was hailed by a voice from the smoking room.

"Hallo, Lawrence! Dining here? Take a bite with me--I've ordered a canvas-back."

He discovered Trenor, in his day clothes, sitting, with a tall glass at his elbow, behind the
folds of a sporting journal.

Selden thanked him, but pleaded an engagement.

"Hang it, I believe every man in town has an engagement tonight.  I shall have the club to
myself. You know how I'm living this winter, rattling round in that empty house. My wife meant
to come to town today, but she's put it off again, and how is a fellow to dine alone in a room
with the looking-glasses covered, and nothing but a bottle of Harvey sauce on the side-board?
I say, Lawrence, chuck your engagement and take pity on me--it gives me the blue devils to
dine alone, and there's nobody but that canting ass Wetherall in the club."

"Sorry, Gus--I can't do it."

As Selden turned away, he noticed the dark flush on Trenor's face, the unpleasant moisture
of his intensely white forehead, the way his jewelled rings were wedged in the creases of his
fat red fingers.  Certainly the beast was predominating--the beast at the bottom of the glass.
And he had heard this man's name coupled with Lily's! Bah--the thought sickened him; all the
way back to his rooms he was haunted by the sight of Trenor's fat creased hands----

On his table lay the note: Lily had sent it to his rooms. He knew what was in it before he
broke the seal--a grey seal with BEYOND!  beneath a flying ship. Ah, he would take her beyond--beyond
the ugliness, the pettiness, the attrition and corrosion of the soul----

Gerty's little sitting-room sparkled with welcome when Selden entered it. Its modest "effects,"
compact of enamel paint and ingenuity, spoke to him in the language just then sweetest to his
ear. It is surprising how little narrow walls and a low ceiling matter, when the roof of the
soul has suddenly been raised. Gerty sparkled too; or at least shone with a tempered radiance.
He had never before noticed that she had "points"--really, some good fellow might do worse
. . . Over the little dinner (and here, again, the effects were wonderful) he told her she
ought to marry--he was in a mood to pair off the whole world. She had made the caramel custard
with her own hands? It was sinful to keep such gifts to herself. He reflected with a throb
of pride that Lily could trim her own hats--she had told him so the day of their walk at Bellomont.

He did not speak of Lily till after dinner. During the little repast he kept the talk on his
hostess, who, fluttered at being the centre of observation, shone as rosy as the candle-shades
she had manufactured for the occasion. Selden evinced an extraordinary interest in her household
arrangements: complimented her on the ingenuity with which she had utilized every inch of her
small quarters, asked how her servant managed about afternoons out, learned that one may improvise
delicious dinners in a chafing-dish, and uttered thoughtful generalizations on the burden of
a large establishment.

When they were in the sitting-room again, where they fitted as snugly as bits in a puzzle,
and she had brewed the coffee, and poured it into her grandmother's egg-shell cups, his eye,
as he leaned back, basking in the warm fragrance, lighted on a recent photograph of Miss Bart,
and the desired transition was effected without an effort. The photograph was well enough--but
to catch her as she had looked last night! Gerty agreed with him--never had she been so radiant.
But could photography capture that light? There had been a new look in her face--something
different; yes, Selden agreed there had been something different.  The coffee was so exquisite
that he asked for a second cup: such a contrast to the watery stuff at the club! Ah, your poor
bachelor with his impersonal club fare, alternating with the equally impersonal CUISINE of
the dinner-party! A man who lived in lodgings missed the best part of life--he pictured the
flavourless solitude of Trenor's repast, and felt a moment's compassion for the man . . . But
to return to Lily--and again and again he returned, questioning, conjecturing, leading Gerty
on, draining her inmost thoughts of their stored tenderness for her friend.

At first she poured herself out unstintingly, happy in this perfect communion of their sympathies.
His understanding of Lily helped to confirm her own belief in her friend. They dwelt together
on the fact that Lily had had no chance. Gerty instanced her generous impulses--her restlessness
and discontent. The fact that her life had never satisfied her proved that she was made for
better things. She might have married more than once--the conventional rich marriage which
she had been taught to consider the sole end of existence--but when the opportunity came she
had always shrunk from it. Percy Gryce, for instance, had been in love with her--every one
at Bellomont had supposed them to be engaged, and her dismissal of him was thought inexplicable.
This view of the Gryce incident chimed too well with Selden's mood not to be instantly adopted
by him, with a flash of retrospective contempt for what had once seemed the obvious solution.
If rejection there had been--and he wondered now that he had ever doubted it!--then he held
the key to the secret, and the hillsides of Bellomont were lit up, not with sunset, but with
dawn. It was he who had wavered and disowned the face of opportunity--and the joy now warming
his breast might have been a familiar inmate if he had captured it in its first flight.

It was at this point, perhaps, that a joy just trying its wings in Gerty's heart dropped to
earth and lay still. She sat facing Selden, repeating mechanically: "No, she has never been
understood----" and all the while she herself seemed to be sitting in the centre of a great
glare of comprehension. The little confidential room, where a moment ago their thoughts had
touched elbows like their chairs, grew to unfriendly vastness, separating her from Selden by
all the length of her new vision of the future--and that future stretched out interminably,
with her lonely figure toiling down it, a mere speck on the solitude.

"She is herself with a few people only; and you are one of them," she heard Selden saying.
And again: "Be good to her, Gerty, won't you?" and: "She has it in her to become whatever she
is believed to be--you'll help her by believing the best of her?"

The words beat on Gerty's brain like the sound of a language which has seemed familiar at a
distance, but on approaching is found to be unintelligible. He had come to talk to her of Lily--that
was all! There had been a third at the feast she had spread for him, and that third had taken
her own place. She tried to follow what he was saying, to cling to her own part in the talk--but
it was all as meaningless as the boom of waves in a drowning head, and she felt, as the drowning
may feel, that to sink would be nothing beside the pain of struggling to keep up.

Selden rose, and she drew a deep breath, feeling that soon she could yield to the blessed waves.

"Mrs. Fisher's? You say she was dining there? There's music afterward; I believe I had a card
from her." He glanced at the foolish pink-faced clock that was drumming out this hideous hour.
"A quarter past ten? I might look in there now; the Fisher evenings are amusing. I haven't
kept you up too late, Gerty? You look tired--I've rambled on and bored you." And in the unwonted
overflow of his feelings, he left a cousinly kiss upon her cheek.

At Mrs. Fisher's, through the cigar-smoke of the studio, a dozen voices greeted Selden. A song
was pending as he entered, and he dropped into a seat near his hostess, his eyes roaming in
search of Miss Bart. But she was not there, and the discovery gave him a pang out of all proportion
to its seriousness; since the note in his breast-pocket assured him that at four the next day
they would meet. To his impatience it seemed immeasurably long to wait, and half-ashamed of
the impulse, he leaned to Mrs. Fisher to ask, as the music ceased, if Miss Bart had not dined
with her.

"Lily? She's just gone. She had to run off, I forget where.  Wasn't she wonderful last night?"

"Who's that? Lily?" asked Jack Stepney, from the depths of a neighbouring arm-chair. "Really,
you know, I'm no prude, but when it comes to a girl standing there as if she was up at auction--I
thought seriously of speaking to cousin Julia."

"You didn't know Jack had become our social censor?" Mrs. Fisher said to Selden with a laugh;
and Stepney spluttered, amid the general derision: "But she's a cousin, hang it, and when a
man's married--TOWN TALK was full of her this morning."

"Yes: lively reading that was," said Mr. Ned Van Alstyne, stroking his moustache to hide the
smile behind it. "Buy the dirty sheet? No, of course not; some fellow showed it to me--but
I'd heard the stories before. When a girl's as good-looking as that she'd better marry; then
no questions are asked. In our imperfectly organized society there is no provision as yet for
the young woman who claims the privileges of marriage without assuming its obligations."

"Well, I understand Lily is about to assume them in the shape of Mr. Rosedale," Mrs. Fisher
said with a laugh.

"Rosedale--good heavens!" exclaimed Van Alstyne, dropping his eye-glass. "Stepney, that's your
fault for foisting the brute on us."

"Oh, confound it, you know, we don't MARRY Rosedale in our family," Stepney languidly protested;
but his wife, who sat in oppressive bridal finery at the other side of the room, quelled him
with the judicial reflection: "In Lily's circumstances it's a mistake to have too high a standard."

"I hear even Rosedale has been scared by the talk lately," Mrs. Fisher rejoined; "but the sight
of her last night sent him off his head. What do you think he said to me after her TABLEAU?
'My God, Mrs. Fisher, if I could get Paul Morpeth to paint her like that, the picture'd appreciate
a hundred per cent in ten years.'"

"By Jove,--but isn't she about somewhere?" exclaimed Van Alstyne, restoring his glass with
an uneasy glance.

"No; she ran off while you were all mixing the punch down stairs.  Where was she going, by
the way? What's on tonight? I hadn't heard of anything."

"Oh, not a party, I think," said an inexperienced young Farish who had arrived late. "I put
her in her cab as I was coming in, and she gave the driver the Trenors' address."

"The Trenors'?" exclaimed Mrs. Jack Stepney. "Why, the house is closed--Judy telephoned me
from Bellomont this evening."

"Did she? That's queer. I'm sure I'm not mistaken. Well, come now, Trenor's there, anyhow--I--oh,
well--the fact is, I've no head for numbers," he broke off, admonished by the nudge of an adjoining
foot, and the smile that circled the room.

In its unpleasant light Selden had risen and was shaking hands with his hostess. The air of
the place stifled him, and he wondered why he had stayed in it so long.

On the doorstep he stood still, remembering a phrase of Lily's: "It seems to me you spend a
good deal of time in the element you disapprove of."

Well--what had brought him there but the quest of her? It was her element, not his. But he
would lift her out of it, take her beyond!  That BEYOND! on her letter was like a cry for rescue.
He knew that Perseus's task is not done when he has loosed Andromeda's chains, for her limbs
are numb with bondage, and she cannot rise and walk, but clings to him with dragging arms as
he beats back to land with his burden. Well, he had strength for both--it was her weakness
which had put the strength in him. It was not, alas, a clean rush of waves they had to win
through, but a clogging morass of old associations and habits, and for the moment its vapours
were in his throat. But he would see clearer, breathe freer in her presence: she was at once
the dead weight at his breast and the spar which should float them to safety. He smiled at
the whirl of metaphor with which he was trying to build up a defence against the influences
of the last hour. It was pitiable that he, who knew the mixed motives on which social judgments
depend, should still feel himself so swayed by them. How could he lift Lily to a freer vision
of life, if his own view of her was to be coloured by any mind in which he saw her reflected?

The moral oppression had produced a physical craving for air, and he strode on, opening his
lungs to the reverberating coldness of the night. At the corner of Fifth Avenue Van Alstyne
hailed him with an offer of company.

"Walking? A good thing to blow the smoke out of one's head. Now that women have taken to tobacco
we live in a bath of nicotine.  It would be a curious thing to study the effect of cigarettes
on the relation of the sexes. Smoke is almost as great a solvent as divorce: both tend to obscure
the moral issue."

Nothing could have been less consonant with Selden's mood than Van Alstyne's after-dinner aphorisms,
but as long as the latter confined himself to generalities his listener's nerves were in control.
Happily Van Alstyne prided himself on his summing up of social aspects, and with Selden for
audience was eager to show the sureness of his touch.  Mrs. Fisher lived in an East side street
near the Park, and as the two men walked down Fifth Avenue the new architectural developments
of that versatile thoroughfare invited Van Alstyne's comment.

"That Greiner house, now--a typical rung in the social ladder!  The man who built it came from
a MILIEU where all the dishes are put on the table at once. His facade is a complete architectural
meal; if he had omitted a style his friends might have thought the money had given out.  Not
a bad purchase for Rosedale, though: attracts attention, and awes the Western sight-seer. By
and bye he'll get out of that phase, and want something that the crowd will pass and the few
pause before.  Especially if he marries my clever cousin----"

Selden dashed in with the query: "And the Wellington Brys'?  Rather clever of its kind, don't
you think?"

They were just beneath the wide white facade, with its rich restraint of line, which suggested
the clever corseting of a redundant figure.

"That's the next stage: the desire to imply that one has been to Europe, and has a standard.
I'm sure Mrs. Bry thinks her house a copy of the TRIANON; in America every marble house with
gilt furniture is thought to be a copy of the TRIANON. What a clever chap that architect is,
though--how he takes his client's measure! He has put the whole of Mrs. Bry in his use of the
composite order. Now for the Trenors, you remember, he chose the Corinthian: exuberant, but
based on the best precedent. The Trenor house is one of his best things--doesn't look like
a banqueting-hall turned inside out. I hear Mrs. Trenor wants to build out a new ball-room,
and that divergence from Gus on that point keeps her at Bellomont. The dimensions of the Brys'
ball-room must rankle: you may be sure she knows 'em as well as if she'd been there last night
with a yard-measure. Who said she was in town, by the way?  That Farish boy? She isn't, I know;
Mrs. Stepney was right; the house is dark, you see: I suppose Gus lives in the back."

He had halted opposite the Trenors' corner, and Selden perforce stayed his steps also. The
house loomed obscure and uninhabited; only an oblong gleam above the door spoke of provisional
occupancy.

"They've bought the house at the back: it gives them a hundred and fifty feet in the side street.
There's where the ball-room's to be, with a gallery connecting it: billiard-room and so on
above. I suggested changing the entrance, and carrying the drawing-room across the whole Fifth
Avenue front; you see the front door corresponds with the windows----"

The walking-stick which Van Alstyne swung in demonstration dropped to a startled "Hallo!" as
the door opened and two figures were seen silhouetted against the hall-light. At the same moment
a hansom halted at the curb-stone, and one of the figures floated down to it in a haze of evening
draperies; while the other, black and bulky, remained persistently projected against the light.

For an immeasurable second the two spectators of the incident were silent; then the house-door
closed, the hansom rolled off, and the whole scene slipped by as if with the turn of a stereopticon.

Van Alstyne dropped his eye-glass with a low whistle.

"A--hem--nothing of this, eh, Selden? As one of the family, I know I may count on you--appearances
are deceptive--and Fifth Avenue is so imperfectly lighted----"

"Goodnight," said Selden, turning sharply down the side street without seeing the other's extended
hand.

Alone with her cousin's kiss, Gerty stared upon her thoughts. He had kissed her before--but
not with another woman on his lips. If he had spared her that she could have drowned quietly,
welcoming the dark flood as it submerged her. But now the flood was shot through with glory,
and it was harder to drown at sunrise than in darkness. Gerty hid her face from the light,
but it pierced to the crannies of her soul. She had been so contented, life had seemed so simple
and sufficient--why had he come to trouble her with new hopes? And Lily--Lily, her best friend!
Woman-like, she accused the woman.  Perhaps, had it not been for Lily, her fond imagining might
have become truth. Selden had always liked her--had understood and sympathized with the modest
independence of her life. He, who had the reputation of weighing all things in the nice balance
of fastidious perceptions, had been uncritical and simple in his view of her: his cleverness
had never overawed her because she had felt at home in his heart. And now she was thrust out,
and the door barred against her by Lily's hand! Lily, for whose admission there she herself
had pleaded! The situation was lighted up by a dreary flash of irony. She knew Selden--she
saw how the force of her faith in Lily must have helped to dispel his hesitations.  She remembered,
too, how Lily had talked of him--she saw herself bringing the two together, making them known
to each other. On Selden's part, no doubt, the wound inflicted was inconscient; he had never
guessed her foolish secret; but Lily--Lily must have known! When, in such matters, are a woman's
perceptions at fault? And if she knew, then she had deliberately despoiled her friend, and
in mere wantonness of power, since, even to Gerty's suddenly flaming jealousy, it seemed incredible
that Lily should wish to be Selden's wife. Lily might be incapable of marrying for money, but
she was equally incapable of living without it, and Selden's eager investigations into the
small economies of house-keeping made him appear to Gerty as tragically duped as herself.

She remained long in her sitting-room, where the embers were crumbling to cold grey, and the
lamp paled under its gay shade.  Just beneath it stood the photograph of Lily Bart, looking
out imperially on the cheap gimcracks, the cramped furniture of the little room. Could Selden
picture her in such an interior? Gerty felt the poverty, the insignificance of her surroundings:
she beheld her life as it must appear to Lily. And the cruelty of Lily's judgments smote upon
her memory. She saw that she had dressed her idol with attributes of her own making. When had
Lily ever really felt, or pitied, or understood?  All she wanted was the taste of new experiences:
she seemed like some cruel creature experimenting in a laboratory.

