Windbound means when the ship is detained in one particular station by contrary winds.

Windward is when the ship is in the direction of the wind.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRONICLES OF THE CANONGATE.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--Since my last communication to you on the subject of the works, so commonly spoken of
as by the "Great Unknown"--"the Wizard of the North," and other equally novel cognomina, the
veil has been withdrawn; we now have the open avowal, both from his own lips, and under his
own hand, of the authorship from the individual himself, who has so long, and, as it now appears,
so justly, enjoyed the reputation of having written them.

To judge from what he says in the second volume of "the Chronicles of the Canongate," just
published--I mean in the character of Mr. Croftangry,--it is clear that he is conscious of
such slips and carelessness as I have before pointed out. I am therefore at a loss to understand
why he should allow them to remain like spots that deface the general beauty of his productions,
as by submitting them for perusal to the merest Tyro in grammar or composition before they
were sent to press, they could not fail of being obliterated.

It is surely no very good policy for an artist, jealous of his reputation, knowingly to leave
his works unfinished. Without, however, detaining you, or your readers, by such obvious remarks,
I shall resume my task, hoping that you will be able to find room for the following in your
useful and entertaining miscellany.

In the first volume, p. 168, of the present work, we read: "She was once the beautiful and
happy wife of Hamish Mac Tavish, for whom his strength and feats of prowess gained him the
title of Mac Tavish Mhor." This kind of style would scarcely be allowed to pass in Leadenhall-street.
What is meant by for whom, with his immediately following, and then him a little after? Does
not the author intend to say, that the strength, &c. of Mac Tavish gained him the title of
Mac Tavish Mhor?

"He gained the road, mounted his pony, and rode upon his way," p. 183 of the same volume, is,
in the latter part of it, another curious phrase. "He mounted his pony," says the author. May
we not suppose he rode upon it too? But he adds "rode upon his way." 2., p. 87. We heap up
wealth, but not persons with it, for that would hardly be kind. To load one with wealth is
a common expression. 2, p. 136. Such is the question put by Middlemas to his friend Hartley,
when speaking together on the subject of the interesting Menic Grey, and his projected Indian
trip. But how could he ask if the bold adventurer fixed his thoughts on him, when it was the
person addressed who entertained the idea of becoming one? and how, if the bold adventurer
was dejected? when he had already distinguished him, taking the words in their proper application,
as another individual in a general sense. It is altogether a singular specimen of abstruse
phraseology. Then "fix his thoughts" "dejected at the thoughts." Fie upon it! 2, p. 367. If
he withstood the progress of the disease, how could he fall a victim to it? The author should
have said, "in his endeavours to withstand" or "arrest the progress of it." 2, p. 88 and 89.
Who is he? the doctor? Is he not mentioned before? And there he is left to stand without his
natural support, for he has taken it from him. Does not the writer of this sentence recollect
"My banks they are furnished with bees." I could add another take from to the page by way of note.

The following I leave without comment.

"Judgement," vol. 1, p. 2; vol. 6, p. 6. and judgment, vol. 1, p. 85, a heraldic shield, vol.
1, p. 68; desireable, vol. 2, p. 39.

As much iron as would have builded a brig, vol. 1, page 68. A good tune is grinded, vol. 1,
p. 143. Butler and Mercer had both spoke to their disparagement, vol. 2, p. 289.

Worthy Mr. Piper, best of contractors who ever furnished four frampal jades, vol. 1, p. 45.

With the next morning I will still see the double summit of the ancient Dan, vol. 1, p. 229.

And then I will find it easier to have you prosecuted, vol. 2, p. 169.

We will be happy, if it is in our power, to repay a part of our obligations, vol. 2, p. 222.

Thou art the fiend who hast occasioned my wretchedness in this world, and who will share my
eternal misery in the next, vol. 2, p. 229. 2, p. 256.

He inquired at their superior for Barak el Hadgi, vol. 2, p. 263.

And inquiring at those whom he considered the best newsmongers, vol. 2, p. 276.

He faltered out inquiries at his niece, vol. 1, p. 20.

Your father asked none save at his courage and his sword, vol. 1, p. 260.

The concluding (of) a literary undertaking, vol. 2, p. 1. 1, p. 250. November 7, 1827. Oculus.[2]

    [2] We are compelled to defer our Correspondent's Notes on his
    second reading of Ivanhoe--Ed.

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER

Written in the Condemned Cells, Newgate, by Captain Lee, the night previous to his execution,
being convicted of forging a bill of exchange for 15l. on the Ordnance Office.

Newgate, March 3, 1784.

My Dear Sir,--Before this reaches you, the head that dictates and the hand that traces these
lines shall be no more. Earthly cares shall all be swallowed up, and the death of an unthinking
man shall have atoned for the trespass he has committed against the laws of his country. But
ere the curtain be for ever dropped, or remembrance leave this tortured breast, let me take
this last and solemn leave of one with whom I have passed so many social and instructive hours,
whose conversation I fondly cultivated, and whose friendship for me I hope will remain, even
after the clay-cold hand of death has closed my eyes in everlasting darkness.

I cannot think you will view this letter with stoic coolness, or with listless indifference.
Absorbed as the generality of men are in the pursuits of pleasure or the avocations of business,
there are times when the mind looks inward upon itself, when a review of past follies induces
us to future amendment, and when a consciousness of having acted wrong leads us to resolutions
of doing right. In one of those fortunate moments may you receive these last admonitions! Shun
but the rock on which I have struck, and you will be sure to avoid the shipwreck I have suffered.
Initiated in the army at an early period of life, I soon anticipated not only the follies,
but even the vices of my companions. Before, however, I could share with undisturbed repose
in the wickedness of others, it was necessary to remove from myself what the infidel terms
the prejudices of a Christian education. In this I unfortunately succeeded; and conceiving
from my tenderest years a taste for reading, my sentiments were confirmed, not by the flimsy
effusions of empty libertines, but by the specious sophistry of modern philosophers. It must
be owned that at first I was rather pleased with the elegance of their language than the force
of their reasoning; as, however, we are apt to believe what we eagerly wish to be true, in
a short time I soon became a professed deist. My favourite author was the late celebrated David
Hume. I constantly urged his exemplary behaviour in private as a strong argument in favour
of his doctrines, forgetting that his literary life was uniformly employed in diffusing his
pernicious tenets, and his utmost endeavours were constantly exerted in extending the baneful
influence of his philosophical principles. Happy for me had I always been actuated by the considerations
which fill my bosom at this moment, and which I hope will animate me in that awful part to-morrow's
sun shall see me perform. But the die is cast, and I leave to the world this mournful memento,
"that however much a man may be favoured by personal qualifications, or distinguished by mental
endowments, genius will be useless, and abilities avail but little, unless accompanied by a
sense of religion, and attended by the practice of virtue; destitute of these, he will only
be mounted on the wings of folly, that he may fall with greater force into the dark abyss of
endless despair."

On my returning to a belief of the truths of Christianity, I have been very much assisted by
the pious exhortations of the ordinary, as well as by the book he has put into my hands; and
I feel a comfort which I am unable to express by this his charitable and benevolent attention
to me. I believe there is no passion more prevalent in the human breast than the wish that
our memory should be held in remembrance. I shudder at the thought lest my name should be branded
with infamy, when I lie mouldering in the dust, as I know well that the tongue of malice is
ever loud against the failings of the unfortunate. When, however, my character is insulted,
and my poor reputation attacked, extenuate, I beseech you, the enormity of my crime, by relating
the hardships of my sufferings. Tell to the giddy and affluent, that, strangers to the severity
of want, they know not the pain of withstanding the almost irresistible calls of nature. The
poor will, I trust, commiserate my misfortunes, and shed a sympathetic tear at the mournful
tale of my miserable fate. I can say no more. Heaven have mercy on us all!

Adieu for ever. J. LEE.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARTING FOR THE POLE.

  He.--Now weep not Poll because I go,
    There's no need, I declare,
  For when among the Esquimaux,
    I've too much blubber there.

  Women mis-doubt a sailor's word,
    We don't deserve the wipe;
  For when they pipe us all aboard,
    Aboard we all do pipe.

  We've rocks, when all our tears are past,
    The sailor's heart to shock,

  She..--Why yes, Jack--when you're on the mast,
    You're sure to have a rock.

  He.--You'll find some fellow on dry ground,
    You will prefer to me,
  To him I see you will be bound,
    While I'm bound to the sea.

  But if I sail the world around,
    I'll be a faithful rover,

  She.--Poh! you'll forget me I'll be bound
    When you are half seas over.

  He.--And when alas, your Jack is gone,
    You'll think of naught but jigging,
  And you will sport your rigging on,
    While Jack is on the rigging.

  Where winter's ice around us grows,
    And storms upon us roll,

  She.--Ah, that's the time I do suppose
  They look out for the pole.

  He.--But if I should be sunk d'ye see,

  She.--Bring up a coral wreath,

  He.--Why if I were beneath the sea,
    I could not see beneath.

  She.--Yet if you should be cast away,
    Without a cloak, or victual,
  Remember me, a little, pray,
    You'd better pray a little.

  But tho' you wish us now to splice,
    Our hands--your love won't hold,
  For when you get among the ice,
    I'm sure you will grow cold.

  I have your money--here's a kiss,
    I will be true to you,
  But one word more, "adieu" it is,
    Cries Jack, it is a do.             MAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

BARDS, OR POETS OF THE ANCIENT BRITONS.

(For the Mirror.)

  Hail! to the Bards, who sweetly sung
    The praises of dead peers
  In lofty strains, thus to prolong
    Their fame for many years.        LUCAN.

This sect appears to have descended from Bardus, son of Druis, king of Britain; he was much
esteemed by the people for inventing songs and music, in praise of meritorious actions; and
established an order, in which such of the people were admitted as excelled in his art, distinguishing
them by the name of bards, after his own name. Julius Caesar reports, that on his arrival he
found some of them. Their business was to record the noble exploits of their warriors in songs
and ditties, which they sung to their instruments at the solemn feasts of their chiefs; and
in such high estimation were they held, that, when two armies were ready to engage, if a bard
stept in between them, both sides delayed the attack till he was out of danger.

As these bards were neither repugnant to the Roman authority nor the Christian religion, they
alone, above all other sects, were suffered to continue long after the birth of Christ; and
it is said that some of them are still to be found in the isle of Bardsey, (so named from them).
Wisbech. T.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SCOTTISH PEASANT'S LAMENT.

BY THE AUTHOR OF AHAB.

(For the Mirror.)

  Oh! had I my home by the side of the glen,
  In a spot far remote from the dwellings of men,
  Wi' my ain bonnie Jeannie to sit by my side,
  I'd nae envy auld Reekie her splendor and pride.
  The song of the mavis should wake me at morn,
  And the grey breasted lintie reply from the thorn;
  While the clear brook should run in the sun's yellow beam,
  And my days glide as calmly along as its stream.

  But here, in the city's dull streets, I must live,
  Nae Jeannie her arms for my pillow to give;
  Nae mavis, nae lintie, to sing from the tree,
  Nae streamlet to murmur its music to me.
  O better, by far, had I never been born,
  Or my head laid in rest in the glen 'neath the thorn;
  Since the songs of my birds I no longer can hear,
  Nor in slumber recline by the side of my dear.

  Now, all that makes life still endured, is the dream,
  That comes o'er my soul, of the bird and the stream;
  And the love of my Jean--when that vision shall close,
  In the silence of death let my ashes repose.
  Yet then, even then, my sad spirit will be,
  By the side of the brook, 'neath the shade of the tree;
  In the arms of my Jeannie, for ne'er can it stay,
  From those who in life had endeared it away.

Nov. 25. 1827. S.P.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A SQUINTING POETESS.

  To no one muse does she her glance confine,
  But has an eye at once, to all the nine!

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

No. XVI.

       *       *       *       *       *

FISHING IN THE RIVER YEOU.

The fishery of the Yeou, in Bornou, is a very considerable source of commerce to the inhabitants
of its banks; and the manner of fishing (as represented in the above engraving) is ingenious
though simple. These wells being filled, he steers for the shore, unloads, and again returns
to the sport.--Denhani's Travels in Africa.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARABIAN HORSES.

Sir John Malcolm, in his Sketches of Persia, gives the following interesting anecdotes of these
noble creatures:--

Hyder, the elchee's master of the chase, was the person who imparted knowledge to me on all
subjects relating to Arabian horses. He would descant by the hour on the qualities of a colt
that was yet untried, but which, he concluded, must possess all the perfections of its sire
and dam, with whose histories, and that of their progenitors, he was well acquainted. Hyder
had shares in five or six famous brood mares; and he told me a mare was sometimes divided amongst
ten or twelve Arabs, which accounted for the groups of half-naked fellows whom I saw watching,
with anxiety, the progress made by their managing partner in a bargain for one of the produce.
They often displayed, on these occasions, no small violence of temper; and I have more than
once observed a party leading off their ragged colt in a perfect fury, at the blood of Daghee
or Shumehtee, or some renowned sire or grandsire, being depreciated by an inadequate offer,
from an ignorant Indian or European.

The Arabs place still more value on their mares than on their horses; but even the latter are
sometimes esteemed beyond all price. When the envoy, returning from his former mission, was
encamped near Bagdad, an Arab rode a bright bay horse of extraordinary shape and beauty, before
his tent, till he attracted his notice. On being asked if he would sell him--"What will you
give me?" said he. "It depends upon his age; I suppose he is past five?" "Guess again," was
the reply. "Four." "Look at his mouth," said the Arab, with a smile. On examination he was
found rising three; this, from his size and perfect symmetry, greatly enhanced his value. The
envoy said, "I will give you fifty tomans[3]." "A little more, if you please," said the fellow,
apparently entertained. "Eighty!--a hundred!" He shook his head, and smiled. The offer came
at last to two hundred tomans! So saying, he rode off to the desert, whence he had come, and
where he, no doubt, amused his brethren with an account of what had passed between him and
the European envoy.

    [3] A toman is a nominal coin nearly the value of a pound
    sterling.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARIS.

Paris is, as it were, abandoned to foreign travellers in September and October. It is not till
the first symptoms of cold are felt somewhat severely, that life in the capital is resumed
in all its tumult. The Paris season is the reverse of that of London. It commences at the end
of November, and closes at the beginning of May. The period of your hunting is that of our
drawing-room parties. Previous to November, Paris may be compared to a vast lazaretto, where
the valetudinarians of every country take refuge.--Monthly Magazine

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICIAN OF MANDARA.

The above engraving represents one of the musicians of the Sultan of Mandara; blowing a long
pipe not unlike a clarionet, ornamented with shells. These artists, with two immense trumpets
from twelve to fourteen feet long, borne by men on horseback, made of pieces of hollow wood
with a brass mouth-piece, usually precede the sovereign on any important visit. The costume
and attitude of the musician are highly characteristic of savage mirth.

The chiefs in this part of Africa are also attended by a band carrying drums, and singing extempore
songs, a translation of one of which is subjoined from "Denham's Travels," whence the engraving
is copied.

  Christian man he come,
    Friend of us and Sheikhobe;
  White man, when he hear my song,
    Fine new tobe give me.

  Christian man all white,
    And dollars white have he;
  Kanourie, like him, come,
    Black man's friend to be.

  From Felatah, how he run;
    Barca Gana shake his spear:
  White man carry two-mouthed gun;
    That's what make Felatah fear.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUNTING IN PERSIA.

In Persia, persons of the highest rank lead their own greyhounds in a long silken leash, which
passes through the collar, and is ready to slip the moment the huntsman chooses. The well-trained
dog goes alongside the horse, and keeps clear of him when at full speed, and in all kinds of
country. When a herd of antelopes is seen, a consultation is held, and the most experienced
determine the point towards which they are to be driven. The field (as an English sportsman
would term it) then disperse, and while some drive the herd in the desired direction, those
with the dogs take their post on the same line, at the distance of about a mile from each other;
one of the worst dogs is then slipped at the herd, and from the moment he singles out an antelope
the whole body are in motion. The object of the horsemen who have greyhounds is to intercept
its course, and to slip fresh dogs, in succession, at the fatigued animal. In rare instances
the second dog kills. It is generally the third or fourth; and even these, when the deer is
strong, and the ground favourable, often fail. This sport, which is very exhilarating, was
the delight of the late King of Persia, Aga Mahomed Khan, whose taste is inherited by the present
sovereign.--Sketches of Persia.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIOUS WATCHMEN IN NORWAY.

In Drontheim, the ancient capital of Norway, it appears, that the guardians of the night not
only watch, but pray for the souls of the inhabitants. Mr. Brooke, in his recent travels, says,
"as each hour elapses, they are prepared with a different kind of exhortation or prayer; which,
forming a sort of tune or chant, is sung by them during the drear hours of the night." Of one
of these pious songs, he gives the following literal translation:

  "Ho! the Watchman, ho!
  The clock has struck ten,
  Praised be God, our Lord!
  Now it is time to go to bed.
  The housewife and her maid,
  The master as well as his lad.
  The wind is south-east.
  Hallelujah! praised be God, our Lord!"

"The voekter, or watchman, is armed with an instrument as remarkable as his cry, being nothing
less than a long pole, at the end of which is a ball, well fortified with iron spikes. This
weapon is called morgen stierne, or the morning star. At Drontheim, however, bands of pick-pockets
and thieves are unknown, and the morning star does little more than grace the hand of the Norwegian
watchman."

As the axe of reform is just laid to the watching system of London, we may profit by the example
of our Northern brethren; for it appears, they not only watch over the temporal, but spiritual
concerns of their citizens, and it should seem, with salutary effect: but the vespers and matins,
of a watchman in England, would meet with many unholy interruptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON CLUB-HOUSES.

Club-houses are by no means a new invention; and yet the improvements upon the old plan, which
was itself an improvement upon the former coffee-house, is sufficiently interesting, and sufficiently
unknown to the people in general, to render some account of their advantages not superfluous.
The modern club is a tavern and newsroom, where the members are both guests and landlord. The
capital is derived from a sum paid by each member on entrance, and the general annual expenses,
such as house-rent, servants, &c. are defrayed by an annual subscription. The society elects
a committee for its execution and government, and meets at stated intervals for legislative
measures. The committee appoint a steward to manage its affairs, and a secretary to keep the
accounts, to take minutes of the proceedings of meetings, and transact the business of correspondence.
The domestic servants are placed under the immediate direction of the steward; but above all
in the choice of a cook, the discretion of the committee is most especially exerted. A house
being thus established where the society is at home, the rooms are thrown open for their various
accommodation. In the apartments destined for eating, members may breakfast, lunch, dine, and
sup, as they list; a bill of fare of great variety is prepared; and the gourmand has nothing
more to do than to study its contents, and write the names of the dishes he desires on a bill
prepared for the purpose; to mention whether he orders dinner for himself alone, or in company
with others; and at what time he chooses to dine, whether immediately, or at some subsequent
hour. At the close of his dinner this bill or demand is presented to him with the prices annexed,
and prompt payment is the law.

