But now he looked as though he had realized it with sufficient clearness. He was lean and sick
and pale, and seemed to be ten years older than when Mr. Prendergast had last seen him. He
was wrapped in an old dressing-gown, and had a night-cap on his head, and coughed violently
before he got himself into his chair. It is hard for any tame domestic animal to know through
what fire and water a poor fox is driven as it is hunted from hole to hole and covert to covert.
It is a wonderful fact, but no less a fact, that no men work so hard and work for so little
pay as scoundrels who strive to live without any work at all, and to feed on the sweat of other
men's brows. Poor Matthew Mollett had suffered dire misfortune, had encountered very hard lines,
betwixt that day on which he stole away from the Kanturk Hotel in South Main Street, Cork,
and that other day on which he presented himself, cold and hungry and almost sick to death,
at the door of his wife's house in Spinny Lane, St. Botolph's in the East.

He never showed himself there unless when hard pressed indeed, and then he would skulk in,
seeking for shelter and food, and pleading with bated voice his husband right to assistance
and comfort. Nor was his plea ever denied him.

On this occasion he had arrived in very bad plight indeed: he had brought away from Cork nothing
but what he could carry on his body, and had been forced to pawn what he could pawn in order
that he might subsist. And then he had been taken with ague, and with the fit strong on him
had crawled away to Spinny Lane, and had there been nursed by the mother and daughter whom
he had ill used, deserted, and betrayed. "When the devil was sick the devil a monk would be;"
and now his wife, credulous as all women are in such matters, believed the devil's protestations.
A time may perhaps come when even--But stop!--or I may chance to tread on the corns of orthodoxy.
What I mean to insinuate is this; that it was on the cards that Mr. Mollett would now at last
turn over a new leaf.

"How do you do, Mr. Mollett?" said Mr. Prendergast. "I am sorry to see you looking so poorly."

"Yes, sir. I am poorly enough certainly. I have been very ill since I last had the pleasure
of seeing you, sir."

"Ah, yes, that was at Castle Richmond; was it not? Well, you have done the best thing that
a man can do; you have come home to your wife and family now that you are ill and require their
attendance."

Mr. Mollett looked up at him with a countenance full of unutterable woe and weakness. What
was he to say on such a subject in such a company? There sat his wife and daughter, his veritable
wife and true-born daughter, on whom he was now dependent, and in whose hands he lay, as a
sick man does lie in the hands of women: could he deny them? And there sat the awful Mr. Prendergast,
the representative of all that Fitzgerald interest which he had so wronged, and who up to this
morning had at any rate believed the story with which he, Mollett, had pushed his fortunes
in county Cork. Could he in his presence acknowledge that Lady Fitzgerald had never been his
wife? It must be confessed that he was in a sore plight. And then remember his ague!

"You feel yourself tolerably comfortable, I suppose, now that you are with your wife and daughter,"
continued Mr. Prendergast, most inhumanly.

Mr. Mollett continued to look at him so piteously from beneath his nightcap. "I am better than
I was, thank you, sir," said he.

"There is nothing like the bosom of one's family for restoring one to health; is there, Mrs.
Mollett;--or for keeping one in health?"

"I wish you gentlemen would think so," said she, dryly.

"As for me, I never was blessed with a wife. When I am sick I have to trust to hired attendance.
In that respect I am not so fortunate as your husband; I am only an old bachelor."

"Oh, ain't you, sir?" said Mrs. Mollett; "and perhaps it's best so. It ain't all married people
that are the happiest."

The daughter during this time was sitting intent on her work, not lifting her face from the
shirt she was sewing. But an observer might have seen from her forehead and eye that she was
not only listening to what was said, but thinking and meditating on the scene before her.

"Well, Mr. Mollett," said Mr. Prendergast, "you at any rate are not an old bachelor." Mr. Mollett
still looked piteously at him, but said nothing. It may be thought that in all this Mr. Prendergast
was more cruel than necessary, but it must be remembered that it was incumbent on him to bring
the poor wretch before him down absolutely on his marrow-bones. Mollett must be made to confess
his sin, and own that this woman before him was his real wife; and the time for mercy had not
commenced till that had been done.

And then his daughter spoke, seeing how things were going with him. "Father," said she, "this
gentleman has called because he has had a letter from Abraham Mollett: and he was speaking
about what Abraham has been doing in Ireland."

"Oh dear, oh dear!" said poor Mollett. "The unfortunate young man; that wretched, unfortunate
young man! He will bring me to the grave at last--to the grave at last."

"Come, Mr. Mollett," said Mr. Prendergast, now getting up and standing with his back to the
fire, "I do not know that you and I need beat about the bush much longer. I suppose I may speak
openly before these ladies as to what has been taking place in county Cork."

"Sir!" said Mr. Mollett, with a look of deprecation about his mouth that ought to have moved
the lawyer's heart.

"I know nothing about it," said Mrs. Mollett, very stiffly.

"Yes, mother, we do know something about it; and the gentleman may speak out if it so pleases
him. It will be better, father, for you that he should do so."

"Very well, my dear," said Mr. Mollett, in the lowest possible voice; "whatever the gentleman
likes--only I do hope--" and he uttered a deep sigh, and gave no further expression to his
hopes or wishes.

"I presume, in the first place," began Mr. Prendergast, "that this lady here is your legal
wife, and this younger lady your legitimate daughter? There is no doubt, I take it, as to that?"

"Not--any--doubt--in the world, sir," said the Mrs. Mollett, who claimed to be so de jure.
"I have got my marriage lines to show, sir. Abraham's mother was dead just six months before
we came together; and then we were married just six months after that."

"Well, Mr. Mollett; I suppose you do not wish to contradict that?"

"He can't, sir, whether he wish it or not," said Mrs. Mollett.

"Could you show me that--that marriage certificate?" asked Mr. Prendergast.

Mrs. Mollett looked rather doubtful as to this. It may be, that much as she trusted in her
husband's reform, she did not wish to let him know where she kept this important palladium
of her rights.

"It can be forthcoming, sir, whenever it may be wanted," said Mary Mollett the younger; and
then Mr. Prendergast, seeing what was passing through the minds of the two women, did not press
that matter any further.

"But I should be glad to hear from your own lips, Mr. Mollett, that you acknowledge the marriage,
which took place at--at Fulham, I think you said, ma'am?"

"At Putney, sir; at Putney parish church, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and fourteen."

"Ah, that was the year before Mr. Mollett went into Dorsetshire."

"Yes, sir. He didn't stay with me long, not at that time. He went away and left me: and then
all that happened, that you know of-- down in Dorsetshire, as they told me. And afterwards
when he went away on his keeping, leaving Aby behind, I took the child, and said that I was
his aunt. There were reasons then; and I feared--But never mind about that, sir; for anything
that I was wrong enough to say then to the contrary, I am his lawful wedded wife, and before
my face he won't deny it. And then when he was sore pressed and in trouble he came back to
me, and after that Mary here was born; and one other, a boy, who, God rest him, has gone from
these troubles. And since that it is not often that he has been with me. But now, now that
he is here, you should have pity on us, and give him another chance."

But still Mr. Mollett had said nothing himself. He sat during all this time, wearily moving
his head to and fro, as though the conversation were anything but comfortable to him. And,
indeed, it cannot be presumed to have been very pleasant. He moved his head slowly and wearily
to and fro; every now and then lifting up one hand weakly, as though deprecating any recurrence
to circumstances so decidedly unpleasant. But Mr. Prendergast was determined that he should speak.

"Mr. Mollett," said he, "I must beg you to say in so many words, whether the statement of this
lady is correct or is incorrect. Do you acknowledge her for your lawful wife?"

"He daren't deny me, sir," said the woman, who was, perhaps, a little too eager in the matter.

"Father, why don't you behave like a man and speak?" said his daughter, now turning upon him.
"You have done ill to all of us;-- to so many; but now--"

"And are you going to turn against me, Mary?" he whined out, almost crying.

"Turn against you! no, I have never done that. But look at mother. Would you let that gentleman
think that she is--what I won't name before him? Will you say that I am not your honest-born
child? You have done very wickedly, and you must now make what amends is in your power. If
you do not answer him here he will make you answer in some worse place than this."

"What is it I am to say, sir?" he whined out again.

"Is this lady here your legal wife?"

"Yes, sir," said the poor man, whimpering.

"And that marriage ceremony which you went through in Dorsetshire with Miss Wainwright was
not a legal marriage?"

"I suppose not, sir."

"You were well aware at the time that you were committing bigamy?"

"Sir!"

"You knew, I say, that you were committing bigamy; that the child whom you were professing
to marry would not become your wife through that ceremony. I say that you knew all this at
the time? Come, Mr. Mollett, answer me, if you do not wish me to have you dragged out of this
by a policeman and taken at once before a magistrate."

"Oh, sir! be merciful to us; pray be merciful to us," said Mrs. Mollett, holding up her apron
to her eyes.

"Father, why don't you speak out plainly to the gentleman? He will forgive you, if you do that."

"Am I to criminate myself, sir?" said Mr. Mollett, still in the humblest voice in the world,
and hardly above his breath.

After all, this fox had still some running left in him, Mr. Prendergast thought to himself.
He was not even yet so thoroughly beaten but what he had a dodge or two remaining at his service.
"Am I to criminate myself, sir?" he asked, as innocently as a child might ask whether or no
she were to stand longer in the corner.

"You may do as you like about that, Mr. Mollett," said the lawyer; "I am neither a magistrate
nor a policeman; and at the present moment I am not acting even as a lawyer. I am the friend
of a family whom you have misused and defrauded most outrageously. You killed the father of
that family--"

"Oh, gracious!" said Mrs. Mollett

"Yes, madam, he has done so; and nearly broken the heart of that poor lady, and driven her
son from the house which is his own. You have done all this in order that you might swindle
them out of money for your vile indulgences, while you left your own wife and your own child
to starve at home. In the whole course of my life I never came across so mean a scoundrel;
and now you chaffer with me as to whether or no you shall criminate yourself! Scoundrel and
villain as you are--a double-dyed scoundrel, still there are reasons why I shall not wish to
have you gibbeted, as you deserve."

"Oh, sir, he has done nothing that would come to that!" said the poor wife.

"You had better let the gentleman finish," said the daughter. "He doesn't mean that father
will be hung."

"It would be too good for him," said Mr. Prendergast, who was now absolutely almost out of
temper. "But I do not wish to be his executioner. For the peace of that family which you have
so brutally plundered and ill-used, I shall remain quiet,--if I can attain my object without
a public prosecution. But, remember, that I guarantee nothing to you. For aught I know you
may be in gaol before the night is come. All I have to tell you is this, that if by obtaining
a confession from you I am able to restore my friends to their property without a prosecution,
I shall do so. Now you may answer me or not, as you like."

"Trust him, father," said the daughter. "It will be best for you."

"But I have told him everything," said Mollett. "What more does he want of me?"

"I want you to give your written acknowledgment that when you went through that ceremony of
marriage with Miss Wainwright in Dorsetshire, you committed bigamy, and that you knew at that
time that you were doing so."

Mr. Mollett, as a matter of course, gave him the written document, and then Mr. Prendergast
took his leave, bowing graciously to the two women, and not deigning to cast his eyes again
on the abject wretch who crouched by the fire.

"Don't be hard on a poor creature who has fallen so low," said Mrs. Mollett as he left the
room. But Mary Mollett junior followed him to the door and opened it for him. "Sir," she said,
addressing him with some hesitation as he was preparing to depart.

"Well, Miss Mollett; if I could do anything for you it would gratify me, for I sincerely feel
for you,--both for you and for your mother."

"Thank you, sir; I don't know that there is anything you can do for us--except to spare him.
The thief on the cross was forgiven, sir."

"But the thief on the cross repented."

"And who shall say that he does not repent? You cannot tell of his heart by scripture word,
as you can of that other one. But our Lord has taught us that it is good to forgive the worst
of sinners. Tell that poor lady to think of this when she remembers him in her prayers."

"I will, Miss Mollett; indeed, indeed I will;" and then as he left her he gave her his hand
in token of respect. And so he walked away out of Spinny Lane.

CHAPTER XLI

THE LOBBY OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS

Mr. Prendergast as he walked out of Spinny Lane, and back to St. Botolph's church, and as he
returned thence again to Bloomsbury Square in his cab, had a good deal of which to think. In
the first place it must be explained that he was not altogether self-satisfied with the manner
in which things had gone. That he would have made almost any sacrifice to recover the property
for Herbert Fitzgerald, is certainly true; and it is as true that he would have omitted no
possible effort to discover all that which he had now discovered, almost without necessity
for any effort. But nevertheless he was not altogether pleased; he had made up his mind a month
or two ago that Lady Fitzgerald was not the lawful wife of her husband; and had come to this
conclusion on, as he still thought, sufficient evidence. But now he was proved to have been
wrong; his character for shrewdness and discernment would be damaged, and his great ally and
chum Mr. Die, the Chancery barrister, would be down on him with unmitigated sarcasm. A man
who has been right so frequently as Mr. Prendergast, does not like to find that he is ever
in the wrong. And then, had his decision not have been sudden, might not the life of that old
baronet have been saved?

Mr. Prendergast could not help feeling this in some degree as he drove away to Bloomsbury Square;
but nevertheless he had also the feeling of having achieved a great triumph. It was with him
as with a man who has made a fortune when he has declared to his friends that he should infallibly
be ruined. It piques him to think how wrong he has been in his prophecy; but still it is very
pleasant to have made one's fortune.

When he found himself at the top of Chancery Lane in Holborn, he stopped his cab and got out
of it. He had by that time made up his mind as to what he would do; so he walked briskly down
to Stone Buildings, and nodding to the old clerk, with whom he was very intimate, asked if
he could see Mr. Die. It was his second visit to those chambers that morning, seeing that he
had been there early in the day, introducing Herbert to his new Gamaliel. "Yes, Mr. Die is
in," said the clerk, smiling; and so Mr. Prendergast passed on into the well-known dingy temple
of the Chancery god himself.

There he remained for full an hour, a message in the mean while having been sent out to Herbert
Fitzgerald, begging him not to leave the chambers till he should have seen Mr. Die; "and your
friend Mr. Prendergast is with him," said the clerk. "A very nice gentleman is Mr. Prendergast,
uncommon clever too; but it seems to me that he never can hold his own when he comes across
our Mr. Die."

At the end of the hour Herbert was summoned into the sanctum, and there he found Mr. Die sitting
in his accustomed chair, with his body much bent, nursing the calf of his leg, which was always
enveloped in a black, well-fitting close pantaloon, and smiling very blandly. Mr. Prendergast
had in his countenance not quite so sweet an aspect. Mr. Die had repeated to him, perhaps once
too often, a very well-known motto of his; one by the aid of which he professed to have steered
himself safely through the shoals of life--himself and perhaps some others. It was a motto
which he would have loved to see inscribed over the great gates of the noble inn to which he
belonged; and which, indeed, a few years since might have been inscribed there with much justice.
"Festina lente," Mr. Die would say to all those who came to him in any sort of hurry. And then
when men accused him of being dilatory by premeditation, he would say no, he had always recommended
despatch. "Festina," he would say; "festina" by all means; but "festina lente." The doctrine
had at any rate thriven with the teacher, for Mr. Die had amassed a large fortune.

Herbert at once saw that Mr. Prendergast was a little fluttered. Judging from what he had seen
of the lawyer in Ireland, he would have said that it was impossible to flutter Mr. Prendergast;
but in truth greatness is great only till it encounters greater greatness. Mars and Apollo
are terrible and magnificent gods till one is enabled to see them seated at the foot of Jove's
great throne. That Apollo, Mr. Prendergast, though greatly in favour with the old Chancery
Jupiter, had now been reminded that he had also on this occasion driven his team too fast,
and been nearly as indiscreet in his own rash offering.

"We are very sorry to keep you waiting here, Mr. Fitzgerald," said Mr. Die, giving his hand
to the young man without, however, rising from his chair; "especially sorry, seeing that it
is your first day in harness. But your friend Mr. Prendergast thinks it as well that we should
talk over together a piece of business which does not seem as yet to be quite settled."

Herbert of course declared that he had been in no hurry to go away; he was, he said, quite
ready to talk over anything; but to his mind at that moment nothing occurred more momentous
than the nature of the agreement between himself and Mr. Die. There was an honorarium which
it was presumed Mr. Die would expect, and which Herbert Fitzgerald had ready for the occasion.

"I hardly know how to describe what has taken place this morning since I saw you," said Mr.
Prendergast, whose features told plainly that something more important than the honorarium
was now on the tapis.

"What has taken place?" said Herbert, whose mind now flew off to Castle Richmond.

"Gently, gently," said Mr. Die; "in the whole course of my legal experience,--and that now
has been a very long experience,--I have never come across so,--so singular a family history
as this of yours, Mr. Fitzgerald. When our friend Mr. Prendergast here, on his return from
Ireland, first told me the whole of it, I was inclined to think that he had formed a right
and just decision--"

"There can be no doubt about that," said Herbert.

"Stop a moment, my dear sir; wait half a moment--a just decision, I say--regarding the evidence
of the facts as conclusive. But I was not quite so certain that he might not have been a little--premature
perhaps may be too strong a word--a little too assured in taking those facts as proved."

"But they were proved," said Herbert.

"I shall always maintain that there was ample ground to induce me to recommend your poor father
so to regard them," said Mr. Prendergast, stoutly. "You must remember that those men would
instantly have been at work on the other side; indeed, one of them did attempt it."

"Without any signal success, I believe," said Mr. Die.

"My father thought you were quite right, Mr. Prendergast," said Herbert, with a tear forming
in his eye; "and though it may be possible that the affair hurried him to his death, there
was no alternative but that he should know the whole." At this Mr. Prendergast seemed to wince
as he sat in his chair. "And I am sure of this," continued Herbert, "that had he been left
to the villanies of those two men, his last days would have been much less comfortable than
they were, My mother feels that quite as strongly as I do." And then Mr. Prendergast looked
as though he were somewhat reassured.

"It was a difficult crisis in which to act," said Mr. Prendergast, "and I can only say that
I did so to the best of my poor judgment."

"It was a difficult crisis in which to act," said Mr. Die, assenting.

"But why is all this brought up now?" asked Herbert.

"Festina lente," said Mr. Die; "lente, lente, lente; always lente. The more haste we make in
trying to understand each other, with the less speed shall we arrive at that object."

"What is it, Mr. Prendergast?" again demanded Herbert, who was now too greatly excited to care
much for the Chancery wisdom of the great barrister. "Has anything new turned up about--about
those Molletts?"

"Yes, Herbert, something has turned up--"

"Remember, Prendergast, that your evidence is again incomplete."

"Upon my word, sir, I do not think it is: it would be sufficient for any intellectual jury
in a Common Law court," said Mr. Prendergast, who sometimes, behind his back, gave to Mr. Die
the surname of Cunctator.

"But juries in Common Law courts are not always intelligent. And you may be sure, Prendergast,
that any gentleman taking up the case on the other side would have as much to say for his client
as your counsel would have for yours. Remember, you have not even been to Putney yet."

"Been to Putney!" said Herbert, who was becoming uneasy.

"The onus probandi would lie with them," said Mr. Prendergast. "We take possession of that
which is our own till it is proved to belong to others."

"You have already abandoned the possession."

"No; we have done nothing already: we have taken no legal step; when we believed--"

"Having by your own act put yourself in your present position, I think you ought to be very
careful before you take up another."

"Certainly we ought to be careful. But I do maintain that we may be too punctilious. As a matter
of course I shall go to Putney."

"To Putney!" said Herbert Fitzgerald.

"Yes, Herbert, and now, if Mr. Die will permit, I will tell you what has happened. On yesterday
afternoon, before you came to dine with me, I received that letter. No, that is from your cousin,
Owen Fitzgerald. You must see that also by-and-by. It was this one,-- from the younger Mollett,
the man whom you saw that day in your poor father's room."

Herbert anxiously put out his hand for the letter, but he was again interrupted by Mr. Die.
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Fitzgerald, for a moment. Prendergast, let me see that letter again,
will you?" And taking hold of it, he proceeded to read it very carefully, still nursing his
leg with his left hand, while he held the letter with his right.

"What's it all about?" said Herbert, appealing to Prendergast almost in a whisper.

"Lente, lente, lente, my dear Mr. Fitzgerald," said Mr. Die, while his eyes were still intent
upon the paper. "If you will take advantage of the experience of grey hairs, and bald heads,"--his
own was as bald all round as a big white stone--"you must put up with some of the disadvantages
of a momentary delay. Suppose now, Prendergast, that he is acting in concert with those people
in--what do you call the street?"

"In Spinny Lane."

"Yes; with his father and the two women there."

"What could they gain by that?"

"Share with him whatever he might be able to get out of you."

"The man would never accuse himself of bigamy for that. Besides, you should have seen the women,
Die."

"Seen the women! Tsh--tsh--tsh; I have seen enough of them, young and old, to know that a clean
apron and a humble tone and a down-turned eye don't always go with a true tongue and an honest
heart. Women are now the most successful swindlers of the age! That profession at any rate
is not closed against them."

"You will not find these women to be swindlers; at least I think not."

"Ah! but we want to be sure, Prendergast;" and then Mr. Die finished the letter, very leisurely,
as Herbert thought.

When he had finished it, he folded it up and gave it back to Mr. Prendergast. "I don't think
but what you've a strong prima facie case; so strong that perhaps you are right to explain
the whole matter to our young friend here, who is so deeply concerned in it. But at the same
time I should caution him that the matter is still enveloped in doubt."

Herbert eagerly put out his hand for the letter. "You may trust me with it," said he: "I am
not of a sanguine temperament, nor easily excited; and you may be sure that I will not take
it for more than it is worth." So saying, he at last got hold of the letter, and managed to
read it through much more quickly than Mr. Die had done. As he did so he became very red in
the face, and too plainly showed that he had made a false boast in speaking of the coolness
of his temperament. Indeed, the stakes were so high that it was difficult for a young man to
be cool while he was playing the game: he had made up his mind to lose, and to that he had
been reconciled; but now again every pulse of his heart and every nerve of his body was disturbed.
"Was never his wife," he said out loud when he got to that part of the letter. "His real wife
living now in Spinny Lane! Do you believe that, Mr. Prendergast?"

"Yes, I do," said the attorney.

"Lente, lente, lente," said the barrister, quite oppressed by his friend's unprofessional abruptness.

"But I do believe it," said Mr. Prendergast: "you must always understand, Herbert, that this
new story may possibly not be true--"

"Quite possible," said Mr. Die, with something almost approaching to a slight laugh.

"But the evidence is so strong," continued the other, "that I do believe it heartily. I have
been to that house, and seen the man, old Mollett, and the woman whom I believe to be his wife,
and a daughter who lives with them. As far as my poor judgment goes," and he made a bow of
deference towards the barrister, whose face, however, seemed to say, that in his opinion the
judgment of his friend Mr. Prendergast did not always go very far--"As far as my poor judgment
goes, the women are honest and respectable. The man is as great a villain as there is unhung--unless
his son be a greater one; but he is now so driven into a corner, that the truth may be more
serviceable to him than a lie."

"People of that sort are never driven into a corner," said Mr. Die; "they may sometimes be
crushed to death."

"Well, I believe the matter is as I tell you. There at any rate is Mollett's assurance that
it is so. The woman has been residing in the same place for years, and will come forward at
any time to prove that she was married to this man before he ever saw--before he went to Dorsetshire:
she has her marriage certificate; and as far as I can learn there is no one able or willing
to raise the question against you. Your cousin Owen certainly will not do so."

"It will hardly do to depend upon that," said Mr. Die, with another sneer. "Twelve thousand
a-year is a great provocative to litigation."

"If he does we must fight him; that's all. Of course steps will be taken at once to get together
in the proper legal form all evidence of every description which may bear on the subject, so
that should the question ever be raised again, the whole matter may be in a nutshell."

"You'll find it a nutshell very difficult to crack in five-and-twenty years' time," said Mr. Die.

"And what would you advise me to do?" asked Herbert.

That after all was now the main question, and it was discussed between them for a long time,
till the shades of evening came upon them, and the dull dingy chambers became almost dark as
they sat there. Mr. Die at first conceived that it would be well that Herbert should stick
to the law. What indeed could be more conducive to salutary equanimity in the mind of a young
man so singularly circumstanced, than the study of Blackstone, of Coke, and of Chitty? as long
as he remained there, at work in those chambers, amusing himself occasionally with the eloquence
of the neighbouring courts, there might be reasonable hope that he would be able to keep his
mind equally poised, so that neither success nor failure as regarded his Irish inheritance
should affect him injuriously. Thus at least argued Mr. Die. But at this point Herbert seemed
to have views of his own: he said that in the first place he must be with his mother; and then,
in the next place, as it was now clear that he was not to throw up Castle Richmond--as it would
not now behove him to allow any one else to call himself master there,--it would be his duty
to reassume the place of master. "The onus probandi will now rest with them," he said, repeating
Mr. Prendergast's words; and then he was ultimately successful in persuading even Mr. Die to
agree that it would be better for him to go to Ireland than to remain in London, sipping the
delicious honey of Chancery buttercups.

"And you will assume the title, I suppose?" said Mr. Die.

"Not, at any rate, till I get to Castle Richmond," he said, blushing. He had so completely
abandoned all thought of being Sir Herbert Fitzgerald, that he had now almost felt ashamed
of saying that he should so far presume as to call himself by that name.

