NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, JULY 17, 1852.   PRICE 1-1/2d.

WOLF-CHILDREN.

It is a pity that the present age is so completely absorbed in materialities, at a time when
the facilities are so singularly great for a philosophy which would inquire into the constitution
of our moral nature. In the North Pacific, we are in contact with tribes of savages ripening,
sensibly to the eye, into civilised communities; and we are able to watch the change as dispassionately
as if we were in our studies examining the wonders of the minute creation through a microscope.
In America, we have before us a living model, blind, mute, deaf, and without the sense of smell;
communicating with the external world by the sense of touch alone; yet endowed with a rare
intelligence, which permits us to see, through the fourfold veil that shrouds her, the original
germs of the human character.[1] Nearer home, we have been from time to time attracted and
astonished by the spectacle of children, born of European parents, emerging from forests where
they had been lost for a series of years, fallen back, not into the moral condition of savages,
but of wild beasts, with the sentiments and even the instincts of their kind obliterated for
ever. And now we have several cases before us, occurring in India, of the same lapses from
humanity, involving circumstances curious in themselves, but more important than curious, as
throwing a strange light upon what before was an impenetrable mystery. It is to these we mean
to direct our attention on the present occasion; but before doing so, it will be well just
to glance at the natural history of the wild children of Europe.[2]

The most remarkable specimen, and the best type of the class, was found in the year 1725, in
a wood in Hanover. With the appearance of a human being--of a boy about thirteen years of age--he
was in every respect a wild animal, walking on all-fours, feeding on grass and moss, and lodging
in trees. When captured, he exhibited a strong repugnance to clothing; he could not be induced
to lie on a bed, frequently tearing the clothes to express his indignation; and in the absence
of his customary lair among the boughs of a tree, he crouched in a corner of the room to sleep.
Raw food he devoured with relish, more especially cabbage-leaves and other vegetables, but
turned away from the sophistications of cookery. He had no articulate language, expressing
his emotions only by the sounds emitted by various animals. Although only five feet three inches,
he was remarkably strong; he never exhibited any interest in the female sex; and even in his
old age--for he was supposed to be seventy-three when he died--it was only in external manners
he had advanced from the character of a wild beast to that of a good-tempered savage, for he
was still without consciousness of the Great Spirit.

In other children that were caught subsequently to Peter, for that was the name they gave him,
the same character was observable, although with considerable modifications. One of them, a
young girl of twelve or thirteen, was not merely without sympathy for persons of the male sex,
but she held them all her life in great abhorrence. Her temper was ungovernable; she was fond
of blood, which she sucked from the living animal; and was something more than suspected of
the cannibal propensity. On one occasion, she was seen to dive as naturally as an otter in
a lake, catch a fish, and devour it on the spot. Yet this girl eventually acquired language;
was even able to give some indistinct account of her early career in the woods; and towards
the close of her life, when subdued by long illness, exhibited few traces of having once been
a wild animal. Another, a boy of eleven or twelve, was caught in the woods of Canne, in France.
He was impatient, capricious, violent; rushing even through crowded streets like an ill-trained
dog; slovenly and disgusting in his manners; affected with spasmodic motions of the head and
limbs; biting and scratching all who displeased him; and always, when at comparative rest,
balancing his body like a wild animal in a menagerie. His senses were incapable of being affected
by anything not appealing to his personal feelings: a pistol fired close to his head excited
little or no emotion, yet he heard distinctly the cracking of a walnut, or the touch of a hand
upon the key which kept him captive. The most delicious perfumes, or the most fetid exhalations,
were the same thing to his sense of smell, because these did not affect, one way or other,
his relish for his food, which was of a disgusting nature, and which he dragged about the floor
like a dog, eating it when besmeared with filth. Like almost all the lower animals, he was
affected by the changes of the weather; but on some of these occasions, his feelings approached
to the human in their manifestations. When he saw the sun break suddenly from a cloud, he expressed
his joy by bursting into convulsive peals of laughter; and one morning, when he awoke, on seeing
the ground covered with snow, he leaped out of bed, rushed naked into the garden, rolled himself
over and over in the snow, and stuffing handfuls of it into his mouth, devoured it eagerly.
Sometimes he shewed signs of a true madness, wringing his hands, gnashing his teeth, and becoming
formidable to those about him. But in other moods, the phenomena of nature seemed to tranquillise
and sadden him. When the severity of the season, as we are informed by the French physician
who had charge of him, had driven every other person out of the garden, he still delighted
to walk there; and after taking many turns, would seat himself beside a pond of water. Here
his convulsive motions, and the continual balancing of his whole body, diminished, and gave
way to a more tranquil attitude; his face gradually assumed the character of sorrow or melancholy
reverie, while his eyes were steadfastly fixed on the surface of the water, and he threw into
it, from time to time, some withered leaves. In like manner, on a moonlight night, when the
rays of the moon entered his room, he seldom failed to awake, and to place himself at the window.
Here he would remain for a considerable time, motionless, with his neck extended, and his eyes
fixed on the moonlight landscape, and wrapped in a kind of contemplative ecstasy, the silence
of which was interrupted only by profound inspirations, accompanied by a slight plaintive noise.

We have only to add, that by the anxious care of the physician, and a thousand ingenious contrivances,
the senses of this human animal, with the exception of his hearing, which always remained dull
and impassive, were gradually stimulated, and he was even able at length to pronounce two or
three words. Here his history breaks off.

The scene of these extraordinary narratives has hitherto been confined to Europe; but we have
now to draw attention to the wild children of India. It happens, fortunately, that in this
case the character of the testimony is unimpeachable; for although brought forward in a brief,
rough pamphlet, published in a provincial town, and merely said to be 'by an Indian Official,'
we recognise both in the manner and matter the pen of Colonel Sleeman, the British Resident
at the court of Lucknow, whose invaluable services in putting down thuggee and dacoitee in
India we have already described to our readers.[3]

The district of Sultanpoor, in the kingdom of Oude, a portion of the great plain of the Ganges,
is watered by the Goomtee River, a navigable stream, about 140 yards broad, the banks of which
are much infested by wolves. These animals are protected by the superstition of the Hindoos,
and to such an extent, that a village community within whose boundaries a single drop of their
blood has been shed, is believed to be doomed to destruction. The wolf is safe--but from a
very different reason--even from those vagrant tribes who have no permanent abiding-place,
but bivouac in the jungle, and feed upon jackals, reptiles--anything, and who make a trade
of catching and selling such wild animals as they consider too valuable to eat. The reason
why the vulpine ravager is spared by these wretches is--that wolves devour children! Not, however,
that the wanderers have any dislike to children, but they are tempted by the jewels with which
they are adorned; and knowing the dens of the animals, they make this fearful gold-seeking
a part of their business. The adornment of their persons with jewellery is a passion with the
Hindoos which nothing can overcome. Vast numbers of women--even those of the most infamous
class--are murdered for the sake of their ornaments, yet the lesson is lost upon the survivors.
Vast numbers of children, too, fall victims in the same way, and from the same cause, or are
permitted, by those who shrink from murder, to be carried off and devoured by the wolves; yet
no Indian mother can withstand the temptation to bedizen her child, whenever it is in her power,
with bracelets, necklaces, and other ornaments of gold and silver. So much is necessary as
an introduction to the incidents that follow.

One day, a trooper, like Spenser's gentle knight,'was pricking on the plain,' near the banks
of the Goomtee. He was within a short distance of Chandour, a village about ten miles from
Sultanpoor, the capital of the district, when he halted to observe a large female wolf and
her whelps come out of a wood near the roadside, and go down to the river to drink. There were
four whelps. Four!--surely not more than three; for the fourth of the juvenile company was
as little like a wolf as possible. The horseman stared; for in fact it was a boy, going on
all-fours like his comrades, evidently on excellent terms with them all, and guarded, as well
as the rest, by the dam with the same jealous care which that exemplary mother, but unpleasant
neighbour, bestows upon her progeny. The trooper sat still in his saddle watching this curious
company till they had satisfied their thirst; but as soon as they commenced their return, he
put spurs to his horse, to intercept the boy. Off ran the wolves, and off ran the boy helter-skelter--the
latter keeping close up with the dam; and the horseman, owing to the unevenness of the ground,
found it impossible to overtake them before they had all entered their den. He was determined,
nevertheless, to attain his object, and assembling some people from the neighbouring village
with pickaxes, they began to dig in the usual way into the hole. Having made an excavation
of six or eight feet, the garrison evacuated the place--the wolf, the three whelps, and the
boy, leaping suddenly out and taking to flight. The trooper instantly threw himself upon his
horse, and set off in pursuit, followed by the fleetest of the party; and the ground over which
they had to fly being this time more even, he at length headed the chase, and turned the whole
back upon the men on foot. These secured the boy, and, according to prescriptive rule, allowed
the wolf and her three whelps to go on their way. He lived only three years after his capture,
and died in August 1850. According to Captain Nicholetts' account of him, he was very inoffensive
except when teased, and would then growl and snarl. He came to eat anything that was thrown
to him, although much preferring raw flesh. He was very fond of uncooked bones, masticating
them apparently with as much ease as meat; and he had likewise a still more curious partiality
for small stones and earth. So great was his appetite, that he has been known to eat half a
lamb at one meal; and buttermilk he would drink by the pitcher full without seeming to draw
breath. He would never submit to wear any article of dress even in the coldest weather; and
when a quilt stuffed with cotton was given to him, 'he tore it to pieces, and ate a portion
of it--cotton and all--with his bread every day.' The countenance of the boy was repulsive,
and his habits filthy in the extreme. He was never known to smile; and although fond of dogs
and jackals, formed no attachment for any human being. Even when a favourite pariah dog, which
used to feed with him, was shot for having fallen under suspicion of taking the lion's share
of the meal, he appeared to be quite indifferent. He sometimes walked erect; but generally
ran on all-fours--more especially to his food when it was placed at a distance from him.

Another of these wolf-children was carried off from his parents at Chupra (twenty miles from
Sultanpoor), when he was three years of age. They were at work in the field, the man cutting
his crop of wheat and pulse, and the woman gleaning after him, with the child sitting on the
grass. Suddenly, there rushed into the family party, from behind a bush, a gaunt wolf, and
seizing the boy by the loins, ran off with him to a neighbouring ravine. The mother followed
with loud screams, which brought the whole village to her assistance; but they soon lost sight
of the wolf and his prey, and the boy was heard no more of for six years. At the end of that
time, he was found by two sipahis associating, as in the former case, with wolves, and caught
by the leg when he had got half-way into the den. He was very ferocious when drawn out, biting
at his deliverers, and seizing hold of the barrel of one of their guns with his teeth. They
secured him, however, and carried him home, when they fed him on raw flesh, hares, and birds,
till they found the charge too onerous, and gave him up to the public charity of the village
till he should be recognised by his parents. This actually came to pass. His mother, by that
time a widow, hearing a report of the strange boy at Koeleapoor, hastened to the place from
her own village of Chupra, and by means of indubitable marks upon his person, recognised her
child, transformed into a wild animal. She carried him home with her; but finding him destitute
of natural affection, and in other respects wholly irreclaimable, at the end of two months
she left him to the common charity of the village.

When this boy drank, he dipped his face in the water, and sucked. The front of his elbows and
knees had become hardened from going on all-fours with the wolves. The village boys amused
themselves by throwing frogs to him, which he caught and devoured; and when a bullock died
and was skinned, he resorted to the carcass like the dogs of the place, and fed upon the carrion.
His body smelled offensively. He remained in the village during the day, for the sake of what
he could get to eat, but always went off to the jungle at night. In other particulars, his
habits resembled those already described. We have only to add respecting him, that, in November
1850, he was sent from Sultanpoor, under the charge of his mother, to Colonel Sleeman--then
probably at Lucknow--but something alarming him on the way, he ran into a jungle, and had not
been recovered at the date of the last dispatch.

We pass over three other narratives of a similar kind, that present nothing peculiar, and shall
conclude with one more specimen of the Indian wolf-boy. This human animal was captured, like
the first we have described, by a trooper, with the assistance of another person on foot. When
placed on the pommel of the saddle, he tore the horseman's clothes, and, although his hands
were tied, contrived to bite him severely in several places. He was taken to Bondee, where
the rajah took charge of him till he was carried off by Janoo, a lad who was khidmutgar (table-attendant)
to a travelling Cashmere merchant. The boy was then apparently about twelve years of age, and
went upon all-fours, although he could stand, and go awkwardly on his legs when threatened.
Under Janoo's attention, however, in beating and rubbing his legs with oil, he learned to walk
like other human beings. But the vulpine smell continued to be very offensive, although his
body was rubbed for some months with mustard-seed soaked in water, and he was compelled during
the discipline to live on rice, pulse, and bread. He slept under the mango-tree, where Janoo
himself lodged, but was always tied to a tent-pin.

One night, when the wild boy was lying asleep under his tree, Janoo saw two wolves come up
stealthily, and smell at him. They touched him, and he awoke; and rising from his reclining
posture, he put his hands upon the heads of his visitors, and they licked his face. They capered
round him, and he threw straw and leaves at them. The khidmutgar gave up his protégé for lost;
but presently he became convinced that they were only at play, and he kept quiet. He at length
gained confidence enough to drive the wolves away; but they soon came back, and resumed their
sport for a time. The next night, three playfellows made their appearance, and in a few nights
after, four. They came four or five times, till Janoo lost all his fear of them. When the Cashmere
merchant returned to Lucknow, where his establishment was, Janoo still carried his pet with
him, tied by a string to his own arm; and, to make him useful according to his capacity, with
a bundle on his head. At every jungle they passed, however, the boy would throw down the bundle,
and attempt to dart into the thicket; repeating the insubordination, though repeatedly beaten
for it, till he was fairly subdued, and became docile by degrees. The greatest difficulty was
to get him to wear clothes, which to the last he often injured or destroyed, by rubbing them
against posts like a beast, when some part of his body itched. Some months after their arrival
at Lucknow, Janoo was sent away from the place for a day or two on some business, and on his
return he found that the wild boy had escaped. He was never more seen.

It is a curious circumstance, that the wild children, whether of Europe or Asia, have never
been found above a certain age. They do not grow into adults in the woods. Colonel Sleeman
thinks their lives may be cut short by their living exclusively on animal food; but to some
of them, as we have seen, a vegetable diet has been habitual. The probability seems to be,
that with increasing years, their added boldness and consciousness of strength may lead them
into fatal adventures with their brethren of the forest. As for the protection of the animal
by which they were originally nurtured becoming powerless from age, which is another hypothesis,
that supposes too romantic a system of patronage and dependence. The head of the family must
have several successive series of descendants to care for after the arrival of the stranger,
and it is far more probable that the wild boy is obliged to turn out with his playmates, when
they are ordered to shift for themselves, than that he alone remains a fixture at home. That
protection of some kind at first is a necessary condition of his surviving at all, there can
be no manner of doubt, although it does not follow that a wolf is always the patron. The different
habits of some of the European children we have mentioned, shew a totally different course
of education. If, for instance, they had been nurtured by wolves, they would no more have learned
to climb trees than to fly in the air. As for the female specimen we have mentioned, hers was
obviously an exceptional case. She was lost, as appeared from her own statement, when old enough
to work at some employment, and a club she used as a weapon was one of her earliest recollections.

The wild children of India, however, were obviously indebted to wolves for their miserable
lives; and it is not so difficult as at first sight might be supposed, to imagine the possibility
of such an occurrence. The parent wolves are so careful of their progeny, that they feed them
for some time with half-digested food, disgorged by themselves; and after that--if we may believe
Buffon, who seems as familiar with the interior of a den as if he had boarded and lodged in
the family--they bring home to them live animals, such as hares and rabbits. These the young
wolves play with, and when at length they are hungry, kill: the mother then for the first time
interfering, to divide the prey in equal portions. But in the case of a child being brought
to the den--a child accustomed, in all probability, to tyrannise over the whelps of pariah
dogs and other young animals, they would find it far easier to play than to kill; and if we
only suppose the whole family going to sleep together, and the parents bringing home fresh
food in the morning--contingencies not highly improbable--the mystery is solved, although the
marvel remains. It may be added, that such wolves as we have an opportunity of observing in
menageries, are always gentle and playful when young, and it is only time that develops the
latent ferocity of a character the most detestable, perhaps, in the whole animal kingdom. Cowardly
and cruel in equal proportion, the wolf has no defenders. 'In short,' says Goldsmith--probably
translating Buffon, for we have not the latter at hand to ascertain--'every way offensive,
a savage aspect, a frightful howl, an insupportable odour, a perverse disposition, fierce habits,
he is hateful while living, and useless when dead.'

But what, then, is man, whom mere accidental association for a few years can strip of the faculties
inherent in his race and convert into a wolf? The lower animals retain their instincts in all
circumstances. The kitten, brought up from birth on its mistress's lap, imbibes none of her
tastes in food or anything else. It rejects vegetables, sweets, fruits, all drinks but water
or milk, and although content to satisfy its hunger with dressed meat, darts with an eager
growl upon raw flesh. Man alone is the creature of imitation in good or in bad. His faculties
and instincts, although containing the germ of everything noble, are not independent and self-existing
like those of the brutes. This fact accounts for the difference observable, in an almost stereotyped
form, in the different classes of society; it affords a hint to legislators touching their
obligation to use the power they possess in elevating, by means of education, the character
of the more degraded portions of the community; and it brings home to us all the great lesson
of sympathy for the bad as well as the afflicted--both victims alike of circumstances, over
which they in many cases have nearly as little control as the wild children of the desert.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] See 'The Rudimental,' in No. 391.

[2] A paper on this subject will be found in Chambers's Miscellany of Useful and Entertaining
Tracts, vol. v. No. 48.

[3] See 'Gang-Robbers of India,' in Nos. 360 and 361 of this Journal. 1852.

THE LITERATURE OF PARLIAMENT.

The Imperial Parliament of Great Britain and Ireland, in addition to its other varied and important
functions, fulfils, through one of its branches, that of a great national book manufactory.
Every session, the House of Commons issues a whole library of valuable works, containing information
of the most ample and searching kind on subjects of a very miscellaneous character. These are
the Blue-books, of which everybody has heard: many jokes are extant as to their imposing bulk
and great weight, literally and figuratively; and a generation eminently addicted to light
reading, may well look with horror on these thick and closely-printed folios. But, in truth,
they are not for the mere reader: they are for the historian, and student of any given subject;
they are storehouses of material, not digested treatises. True it is, that their great size
sometimes defeats its object--the valuable portion of the material is sometimes buried under
the comparatively worthless heap that surrounds it--the golden grains lost amid the chaff.
But in a case of this kind, the error of redundancy is one on the safe side; let a subject
in all its bearings be thoroughly and fully brought up, and it is the fault or failing of him
who sets about the study of it, if he is appalled at the amount of information on which he
has to work, or cannot discriminate and seize upon the salient points, or on those which are
necessary for his own special purposes.

Few persons, we believe, who have not had occasion to consult these parliamentary volumes in
a systematic manner, are at all aware of the immense labour that is bestowed upon them, and
the care and completeness with which they are compiled and arranged. Indeed, we daresay few
readers have any accurate notions of the actual number of parliamentary papers annually issued,
or of the nature of their contents. From even a very cursory examination of the literary result
of a parliamentary session, the previously uninformed investigator could not fail to rise with
a greatly augmented estimate of the functions of the great ruling body of the state--the guarding
and directing power in the multitudinous affairs of the British Empire--an empire that extends
over every possible variety of country and climate, and includes under its powerful, yet mild
and beneficent sway, tribes of every colour of skin, and of every shade of religious belief.
Such a survey, in fact, tends to impress one more fully and immediately than could well be
fancied, with the magnitude of the business of the British legislature, and the consequent
weighty responsibilities imposed upon its members. But, great as the burden is, it is distributed
over so many shoulders, that it appears to press heavily, and really does so, only on a few
who support it at the more trying points.

The session 1851 is the latest of whose labours, as they appear in the form of parliamentary
records, an account can be given. By the admirable system of arrangement we have referred to,
each parliamentary 'paper,' whether it issues in the shape of a bulky Blue-book--that is to
say, as a thick, stitched folio volume, in a dark-blue cover--or as a mere 'paper'--an uncovered
folio of a single sheet of two or four pages, or several stitched together, but not attaining
the dignity of the blue cover--is marked as belonging to a certain class; and when the issue
of the session is complete, a full set of 'Titles, Contents, and Indexes' to the whole is supplied,
so that they can all be classified and bound up in due order with the utmost ease and celerity.
The Titles, Contents, and Indexes to the Sessional Printed Papers of Session 1851 are at present
before us, in the shape of a folio Blue-book about an inch and a half thick, from which we
think we may pick some facts of interest.

