It must not be forgotten that there is a vital distinction between Education and Schooling.
Education takes into account all those forces which enter into the civilization and elevation
of man, whether it be the home, the school, the state, the church, the influences of environment,
or all these combined. It is a continuous process which begins at birth and ceases only at
the end of life. By schooling we mean the educative process which is carried on during a limited
period of the child's life under the guidance of teachers.

The school is a product of civilization. It became necessary because of the division of labor
caused by the multiplication of the interests of mankind which made it impossible for the home
to continue wholly to care for the training of its children. The history of education must
not merely treat of the development of the school, but it must consider education in its broader
meaning; that is, as a history of civilization. For this reason some of the great educators
of the world who have not been school teachers, must receive consideration.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] "Geschichte der Pädagogik," Vol. I, pp. 1, 2.

CHAPTER II

CHINA

=Literature.=--Martin, The Chinese; Clarke, Ten Great Religions; Houghton, Women of the Orient;
Doolittle, Social Life of the Chinese; Johonnot, Geographical Reader; Lord, Beacon Lights of
History; Ballou, Due West and Footprints of Travel; Ploetz, Epitome of Universal History; Barnes,
Studies in Education; Stoddard's Lectures; Pierre Leroy-Beaulieu, The Awakening of the East;
McClure's Magazine, December, 1900, A Character Study of the Chinaman.

The civilization of the "Celestial Empire" is, with the possible exception of that of Egypt,
the oldest in the world. And yet, it has contributed but little to the advancement of mankind.
Their system of education has failed to stimulate national and individual progress, has fostered
narrow egotism, and has excluded external suggestion. It is studied rather for its negative
lessons, and therefore suggests practices which the student of education will do well to avoid.
The result in China furnishes the best argument against a method of instruction that appeals
solely to the memory. This alone is sufficient reason for a study of Chinese education, aside
from its strange and unique characteristics which never fail to interest the reader.

=Geography and History.=--The Chinese Empire occupies a position on the eastern side of the
Asiatic continent within about the same parallels of latitude as the United States, extending
from twenty degrees latitude on the south to fifty-three degrees on the north. Its area is
about four and a quarter million square miles, being somewhat larger than that of the United
States. Its population is estimated at about six times that of our country. It has an abundance
of rivers, intersected by numerous canals, which greatly facilitate internal commerce. Many
parts of the country are densely populated. The people are largely engaged in agriculture.
Tea and silk are the chief articles of export, while rice and millet form the principal food.

The Chinese belong to the Mongolian or yellow race. They are an industrious, frugal, and temperate
people, though the opium habit is very general and is disastrous in its effects. Doubtless
the overcrowded population, which has driven many to live in boats and in crowded apartments,
has had much to do in molding the Chinese character. Until recently they have been slow to
admit modern improvements and are conservative in the maintenance of their customs, religion,
education, and social practices. Consequently they have for many centuries made but little
progress. Their authentic history covers, according to extant records, a period of nearly four
thousand years. The government is an absolute monarchy; the emperor is regarded as the father
of all his people and has complete power over the lives of his subjects.

The Chinese language contains no alphabet; each symbol represents a different word; the substantives
are indeclinable, and the verbs are without inflection. It thus becomes necessary in mastering
the language to learn by rote a vast number of signs and characters,--a prodigious feat for
the memory.

The religion most widespread among the Chinese is Buddhism (which was imported from India),
though ancestor worship is still universal. Women are the principal worshipers, yet the Chinese
believe that women have no souls. The belief in transmigration of souls is implicit, and this
is used to keep woman in a most degraded condition. If a woman is obedient to her husband and
his relatives, and is the mother of sons, she may hope to return to this world, in the future,
as a man, and thus have a chance ultimately to reach Buddha's heaven. The belief in the transmigration
of souls explains the vegetarian diet of the Buddhist. No zealous Buddhist will touch meat
or even eggs, neither will he kill the smallest insect, lest he should thus inadvertently murder
a relative.[2] The men care but little for any religion beyond a veneration for their ancestors.

Polygamy is very generally practiced, the limit to the number of wives being determined by
the ability to support them. Women usually become more religious as they advance in years,
and they spend much time in worshiping in the temples. It is they who preserve the national
religion and make most difficult the work of missionaries.[3]

=The Home.=--The wife exists only for the comfort of her husband. It is her duty to serve and
obey him. If she abuses her husband, she receives one hundred stripes; but abuse from him is
not a punishable offense. Instruction, at home as well as at school, is confined to boys. The
birth of a boy is indicated by hanging a bow and arrow over the door; that of a girl, by a
spindle and yarn. In naming the number of his children, the father counts only the boys. Boys
are clothed in the finest material the family can afford; girls, in rags. Parents may destroy
their children, but only girls are ever sacrificed. The mother can seldom read and write, her
chief duty being to instill into her children the two cardinal Chinese virtues--politeness
and obedience. The relation of parents and children is the highest and purest representation
of the relation between the Creator and the creature, and to venerate the parents is the first
and holiest of all duties, higher than the love of wife to husband, higher than the reverence
for the emperor; therefore the emperor's father cannot be his subject.

To the Chinaman all other duties are included in filial duties. The bringing up of the children
is left almost entirely to the mother. The training begins very early, and greatest stress
from the first is laid upon obedience. Disobedience is a crime punishable by the father with death.

There are no illustrated children's books, no nursery rhymes to inspire the imagination, none
of the bright and useful things so necessary to a happy childhood. The child grows up with
but few playthings calculated to stimulate the powers of the mind.

=The Elementary School.=--At about six or seven years of age the child enters school. Sometimes
a few parents unite to employ a teacher for their children. The government has no concern for
the qualifications of the teacher; no license to teach is required, there is no governmental
inspection or control, nor does the State assume any part of the expense of the school. Attendance
is not compulsory, and yet male education is so universal that scarcely a boy can be found
who does not enjoy opportunities for education. Charity schools are furnished by the wealthy
for those who cannot afford to contribute toward the maintenance of a school.

There are no public schoolhouses. The school is sometimes held in the temple, sometimes in
the home of the schoolmaster, and sometimes in the home of a wealthy patron. The furniture
of the schoolroom consists of an altar consecrated to Confucius and the god of knowledge, a
desk and a chair for the teacher, and the pupils' desks and stools, provided by the children
themselves. No effort is made to render the room attractive.

The child is admitted the first time with much ceremony in order that the day may be one of
pleasant memories. He also receives a new name, the name of his babyhood being dropped. Indeed,
a change of name accompanies each new epoch of his life, as the time he takes a new degree,
the day of his marriage, etc. Thus the boy enters upon his new work. The first years of study
are devoted to reading, writing, and the elements of arithmetic, which studies complete the
education of the majority of the pupils. No effort is made to interest the child; he is simply
required to memorize and write as many as possible of the fifty thousand characters. Not until
after the names of the characters have been learned by rote is there any effort to teach the
meaning of the words which they represent. The child's writing, too, is mechanical, for the
expression of thought is but a secondary consideration. Thought awakening is not encouraged
in the Chinese course of education. Fear, not interest, is the motive which drives the child
to study. Memory is the chief faculty to be cultivated, and each child vies with the others
to make the most noise in study.

The teacher is greatly revered, only less so than the father. His discipline is rigid, the
rod not being spared. There are no new methods to learn; the practice to-day is the same as
that of hundreds of years ago; it consists simply in hearing what the children have learned
by heart.

The second stage of study consists of translations from text-books and lessons in composition.
This work brings some pleasure to the child, as it is a little less mechanical. The third stage
consists of belles-lettres and essay writing. Only a few ever reach this stage, and the purpose
of this advanced work is not intellectual development, or even the accumulation of knowledge,
but to prepare for a position under the government, which can be reached by no other means.
Even in these last two stages of study memory is the principal faculty brought into play. Without
great exercise of this power the vast amount of material can never be mastered.

=Higher Education.=--There are no high schools, but men who have taken degrees gather about
them young students, who are to devote themselves to study, and give them instruction in the
Chinese classics and prepare them for the State examinations for degrees. Great attention is
paid to style, and in order to cultivate a good style, students are required to commit to memory
many of the productions of their classical authors. They write a great many essays and verses,
which are criticised by their teachers. The attention is confined solely to the Chinese classics.
The educated Chinaman is usually ignorant of any field of knowledge not embraced in his own
literature.

There is in the royal library at Pekin a catalogue consisting of one hundred and twelve octavo
volumes of three hundred pages each, containing the titles of twelve thousand works, with short
extracts of their contents. These works treat of science, medicine, astronomy, and philosophy,
while history has an especially rich literature. The Chinese knew how to observe the heavens
four thousand years ago, and yet were unable to construct a calendar without the help of the
Europeans. They invented gunpowder, the mariner's compass, porcelain, bells, playing cards,
and the art of printing long before they were used in Europe, yet they lacked the ability to
use these inventions as instruments to their advancement.

China is divided into provinces which are subdivided into districts. Candidates must pass three
examinations in their own district and those who are successful receive the lowest degree,
that of "Budding Intellect." Many thousands enter for this degree, but only about one per cent
succeed in attaining it. The possession of this degree does not yet entitle the holder to a
public office, but most of those who have secured it become teachers, physicians, lawyers,
etc. Once in three years there is another examination for the second degree, called "Deserving
of Promotion," conducted by an examiner sent from Pekin. A third examination is also held once
every three years, in Pekin, and success in this is rewarded by the title "Fit for Office."
Holders of the last two degrees are entitled to an appointment to some office, the highest
aim of a Chinaman. All of these examinations are conducted with great strictness and fairness,
no one being excluded. Thus every Chinese child of ability has the opportunity to reach the
highest positions in the country.

There is a still higher degree called the "Forest of Pencils," which is open only to members
of the Royal Academy, the Hanlin. The acquirement of this degree is the greatest honor to be
attained; its possessor is highly esteemed, and may hold the highest offices in the country.

In 1905 an edict was promulgated abolishing the old system of examinations. This marks an epoch
in Chinese educational history and will tend to place China in the line of modern political
and industrial development.

=Criticism of Chinese Education.=--1. It is not under government control.

2. It has no interest beyond the boundaries of China, and regards no literature save the Chinese
classics.

3. It is non-progressive, having made practically no improvement for many centuries.

4. It cultivates memory to the neglect of the other powers of the mind, and places more emphasis
on the acquirement of knowledge than on the development of the human faculties.

5. It obtains its results through fear, not by awakening interest in or love for study.

6. Women are not embraced in the scheme of education.

7. It produces a conservative, untruthful, cunning, and non-progressive people.

8. It reaches practically all of the male sex, and there is opportunity for all to rise to
the highest positions of honor, but its methods are so unnatural as to awaken little desire
for education on the part of the young.

9. Its motive is debasing to the character.

CONFUCIUS (B.C. 550-478)

The name of Confucius is the one most revered among the Chinese. To him and his disciples are
due not only the native religion, now supplanted by Buddhism, but also the language and literature.
He began to teach in a private school at the age of twenty-two. He rejected no pupil of ability
and ambition, but accepted none without these qualities. He said, "When I have presented one
corner of a subject, and the pupil cannot make out the other three, I do not repeat the lesson."
The following are extracts from the analects of Confucius:--

1. What you do not like when done to yourself, do not to others.

2. Learning without thought is labor lost; thought without learning is perilous.

3. To see what is right and not do it is want of courage.

4. Worship as if the Deity were present.

5. Three friendships are advantageous: friendship with the upright, friendship with the sincere,
and friendship with the man of observation. Three are injurious: friendship with a man of spurious
airs, friendship with the insinuatingly soft, and friendship with the glib-tongued.

6. Shall I tell you what knowledge is? When you know a thing, to hold that you know it; and
when you do not know a thing, to confess your ignorance.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Mrs. E. E. Baldwin, Foochow, China.

[3] Houghton, "Women of the Orient," p. 14.

CHAPTER III

INDIA

=Literature.=--Marshman, History of India; Ragozin, Vedic India; Spofford, Library of Historical
Characters; Butler, Land of the Veda; Houghton, Women of the Orient; Clarke, Ten Great Religions;
Johonnot, Geographical Reader; Macaulay, Essays; Ballou, Footprints of Travel; Stoddard's Lectures;
Encyclopaedia Britannica; Arnold, Light of Asia; Chamberlain, Education in India.

=Geography and History.=--India lies between the sixth and thirty-sixth parallels of north
latitude. It is bordered on the north by the Himalayas and on the south by the Indian ocean.
The climate in general is hot, which makes the natives indolent and accounts for their lack
of enterprise. The country is very rich, the chief products being wheat, cotton, rice, opium,
and tea. The area is about one and a half million square miles, and the population two hundred
millions.

The early history of India is obscure, as the Brahmans, from religious scruples, have ever
been opposed to historical records. It is certain that there was an aboriginal race which occupied
the country from an unknown period, and that a branch of the Aryan[4] or Indo-Germanic race
came to India and struggled for supremacy. The Aryans succeeded in reducing the natives to
subjection or in driving them into the mountains. The comparatively pure descendants of these
races are about equal in number in India, their mixed progeny composing the great mass of the
Hindu population. The Sanskrit was their classic language, and the Veda their Bible.

=The Caste System.=--There are four great castes in India:--

1. The Brahmans, or highest caste, who are the priests, scholars, lawyers, physicians, teachers,
etc. This order is highly reverenced by the lower castes, and its members are dignified, abstemious,
and sedate. Their highest ideal is to bring their desires and appetites under complete control.
They exercise great influence in the land.[5]

2. The warriors, who comprise the army and the office holders.

3. The merchants, mechanics, and farmers, who constitute the bone and sinew of India.

4. The servants, who receive no education excepting in matters of politeness and other things
connected with their station in life.

Each caste must pay respect to the higher castes, and association with persons of a lower caste
is considered a degradation. The English government of India does not interfere with the caste
system, but it is gradually breaking down.

Besides the above-mentioned castes, there are tradesmen's castes which have grown up as new
occupations have been introduced. Thus there is a potters' caste, a weavers' caste, a carpenters'
caste, etc., each son following his father's trade. This accounts for the marvelous skill of
the craftsmen of India in weaving carpets and fine muslins, in metal work, and other arts,--workmanship
not equaled anywhere else in the world.

Brahmanism and Mohammedanism are the chief religions. Buddhism overran the country in the fifth
and sixth centuries B.C., but it did not seem to be suited to the Hindus, and now it is found
in its purity only in Ceylon. Unlike the Chinese, the Hindus are a very religious people. The
Shastas[6] declare that "when in the presence of her husband, a woman must keep her eyes upon
her master, and be ready to receive his commands. When he speaks, she must be quiet and listen
to nothing besides. When he calls, she must leave everything else and attend upon him alone.
A woman's husband is her god, her priest, and her religion. The most excellent work that she
can perform is to gratify him with the strictest obedience."[7] The system of sale of girls
at birth, for wives, of early betrothal and marriage, of perpetual widowhood under most degrading
circumstances,[8] and the practice of polygamy make the condition of woman in India still worse
than in China.

The English now rule the country with such wisdom and justice that the people are generally
contented and loyal. Reforms have been introduced, commerce has been established, improvements
have been made, and new life has been awakened. They have also established schools and universities;
but as the purpose here is to give a picture of the caste education, the English system will
not be described.

=The Home.=--Woman has no educational advantages in India, and she is regarded more as the
servant than as the equal of her husband. She may never appear uninvited in the presence of
any man except her husband. This has worked great hardships for her, especially in cases of
sickness, as she can have no medical attendance unless a female medical missionary can be reached.
This fact has opened a fertile field for missionary enterprise which has been a great blessing
to Hindu women.

A member of a caste may marry in his own or in a lower caste; thus the Brahman may have four
wives, the warrior three, the farmer two, and the servant one.

Parents love their children, and expect of them unquestioning obedience. Children are taught
to love and honor their teachers even more than their parents. They are taught to reverence
and respect older persons under all circumstances. Contrary to the Chinese idea of education,
which is to prepare for this life, the Hindu idea is to prepare for the future life, and children
in the home, from their earliest years, are trained with reference to this idea.

=The Elementary School.=--All teachers belong to the Brahman caste. They receive no salary,
depending upon gifts for their support. They are mild in discipline, and generally humane in
their treatment of their pupils. The instruction is given under trees in the open air on pleasant
days, and in a tent or shed when the weather is bad. Instruction is given in reading, writing,
and arithmetic, though religion constitutes the principal theme. Memorizing the holy sayings
of Brahma occupies a large portion of the time. While the Chinaman worships nature and his
ancestors, the Hindu worships Brahma. The cultivation of the memory is considered important,
but by no means so essential as in the Chinese system.

The reading lessons are from the Veda. In writing, the child begins by forming characters in
sand with his finger or a stick, then he writes upon leaves, and finally upon paper, with ink.
The work in arithmetic is very elementary, being only such as will fit the learners for practical
life. Servants and girls are excluded from even this limited education.

M. Ida Dean says: "How amused you would be if you could take a peep at a school in India taught
by a native teacher. The school is often held in an open shed, and no pains whatever is taken
to keep it clean. Often the rafters are festooned with cobwebs and dirt. Of furniture, save
the teacher's low desk, there is none. The teacher uses a grass mat, while the boys sit cross-legged
on the earthen floor. The teacher, in a singsong voice, reads a sentence which the boys shout
after him. Then another sentence is read, which the pupils likewise shout in a singsong voice,
while their bodies sway to and fro. This goes on until sentence after sentence is memorized.
No one knows nor cares what he is saying. The teacher never explains. Neither teacher nor pupil
is ever bothered by that troublesome and inquisitive little word why."

The castes are taught separately, and especial attention is given to such instruction as will
fit them for their station in life. The highest virtues to be cultivated are politeness, patience,
modesty, and truthfulness. Morning, noon, and evening there are impressive religious ceremonies
in the school, and the pupils must throw themselves at the feet of their teacher with reverential
respect. There is no theory of education among the Hindus, each teacher instructing as he pleases,
according to historic custom. This precludes any considerable improvement in method or advance
in the art of education. There is no authority to decide upon qualifications of teachers, the
only essential requisite being that they shall belong to the Brahman caste.

=Higher Education.=--The Brahmans are the only educated class, although warriors attend their
schools for the purpose of such study as is necessary in connection with their calling. The
farmer caste, too, may attend the Brahman schools to learn the studies pertaining to their
caste. They pursue in their schools the study of grammar, mathematics, astronomy, philosophy,
medicine, law, literature, and religion. Many of them still speak their classic language, the
Sanskrit. As their religion is based on philosophy, this study takes precedence over all others.

"The Hindus are believed to have originated the decimal system of arithmetical notation which
has been transmitted to us through Arabian channels."[9]

The end of Hindu wisdom is to rise above all human suffering through knowledge. Wuttke says,
"Christians pray, 'Thy Kingdom come'; the Chinese, 'Thy Kingdom remain'; the Hindus, 'Let whatever
thou hast created pass away.'"

=Criticism of Hindu Education.=--1. It is not universal, a large part of the people being excluded
from its benefits.

2. It is based on castes and the promulgation of the caste system, which is baneful.

3. It depends too much upon the cultivation of the memory.

4. It has no philosophy of education, and, therefore, is non-progressive.

5. It does not properly honor woman, and excludes her from its advantages.

6. It produces a dreamy, self-satisfied, indolent, selfish, and non-progressive people.

7. It makes the people self-reflective, which doubtless accounts for their profound philosophical
and mathematical discoveries.

BUDDHA[10]

Buddha lived in the first half of the sixth century B.C. He sought to overthrow Brahmanism
and taught that all men are brothers, that they should show friendship, kindness, pity, and
love toward their fellow-men. His religion and his spirit approach nearer to Christianity than
any other oriental faith, and doubtless his influence was great for the uplifting of the race,
though it cannot be classed as technically educational. "Self-denial, virtuous life, suppression
of all self-seeking, love for fellow-men," said he, "are cardinal virtues which bring blessedness
to mankind." T. W. Rhys Davids says, "Buddha did not abolish castes, as no castes existed at
his time." Had the spirit of his teaching prevailed, India would never have been cursed by
this baneful system. Buddhism is a religion based on moral acts. In a corrupted form it has
many millions of adherents in China, Tibet, Japan, and other countries; but it is found in
its purity only in Ceylon.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] The Aryans are supposed to have originally occupied the country east of the Caspian Sea,
though some authorities locate them north of it. The branches of this race are the Hindus,
Persians, Greeks, Romans, Celts, Teutons, and Slavs. These branches are related in language
and color, and the peoples that find their common origin in the Aryans represent a large part
of the world's enterprise and progress.

[5] See article in Johonnot's "Geographical Reader," p. 197.

[6] A commentary on the sacred book, the Veda of the Hindus.

[7] Houghton, "Women of the Orient," p. 34.

[8] A betrothed girl becomes a widow upon the death of her promised husband even though she
be only two or three years old and may never have seen him. She must always remain a widow,
and as such is constantly humiliated.

[9] Williams, "History of Modern Education."

[10] See North American Review, Vol. 171, p. 517.

CHAPTER IV

PERSIA

=Literature.=--Benjamin, Story of Persia; Ragozin, The Story of Media, Babylon, and Persia;
Rawlinson, The Seventh Great Oriental Monarchy; Myers, Ancient History; Clarke, Ten Great Religions;
Lord, Beacon Lights of History; Fergusson, History of Architecture.

=Geography and History.=--Persia lies in the pathway of the great caravans which formerly carried
on trade between Europe and India. It consists largely of a high plateau, surrounded by mountains.
Large parts of the country are sandy and dry from lack of sufficient rain, and therefore are
unproductive. The people are a branch of the Aryan race. They doubtless lived a nomadic life,
and were obliged to be ever ready to defend themselves. Success in defense against the frequent
assaults of their surrounding enemies stimulated them to become a nation of warriors. This
fact had much to do in shaping their education. Cyrus the Great conquered Media and brought
Persia to the summit of her greatness. The Persians boasted that they had become great by the
sword, hence they cared but little for agriculture or manufactures. They levied tribute upon
the nations they had subdued. Home production was therefore unnecessary, and they could devote
all of their time to the art of war. About one fourth of the population are still classed as
wandering tribes, and the nation is an aggregation rather than a unity of peoples.

The early Persians worshiped fire, and holy fires which only the Magi, or priests, were allowed
to approach, were kept perpetually burning upon the mountain tops. The sun also was worshiped,
the Persian kneeling with his face toward the east at sunrise in beatific joy. This worship
may have been borrowed from the Egyptians, who were conquered by the Persians, and with whom
they stood in close relations. In later times the religion of Zoroaster became the religion
of the people.

=The Home.=--Wife and children were required to show the father great respect. Each morning
the wife was expected to ask her husband nine times, "What do you wish me to do?" The teacher
stood next to the father in the child's esteem. The child was kept at home under the care of
the mother until seven years of age. An astrologer gave him a name and outlined his future
destiny by reference to the stars. It was forbidden to tell him the difference between right
and wrong before his fifth year. No corporal punishment was administered before his seventh
year. The mother was greatly beloved by her children, though women were excluded from education.
The position of woman was much higher than in either China or India. The chief training of
children in the home was physical. Throwing, running, archery, riding, etc., were the principal
employments of children. Absolute truthfulness and justice were early inculcated. A quick eye,
a steady hand, accurate power of observation, and unwavering courage were qualities sought
for in every child, and all of the training in the home, as well as in the later education,
had for its aim the acquirement of these powers. Thus children were early taught to be self-reliant
and fearless.

=The State Education.=--1. Persian education was national in character. After the seventh year
the boy was taken from home and educated entirely by and for the State.

His training in the use of arms, in riding, and in other athletic exercises was continued.
There were large public institutions in which the boys were quartered, and simplest food and
clothing were given them. Besides the training for war, they were taught religious proverbs
and prayers, and were led to practice truth and justice. This education continued until their
fifteenth year. The teachers were men who had passed their fiftieth year, and who were chosen
for virtue as well as knowledge, that they might serve as models to their pupils.

2. The second period of education consisted of a military training, which occupied the ten
years between the age of fifteen and twenty-five.

3. The final period was that of the soldier, which continued till the fiftieth year, when the
Persian could retire from the army with honor. The most competent were retained as teachers.

Reading and writing were taught to a limited degree, but the chief end of education was to
prepare the citizen for war. The Magi were educated in astronomy, astrology, and alchemy, and
many of the dervishes have ever been renowned for their acuteness, sense of justice, great
powers of observation, and good judgment.

=Criticism of the Persian Education.=--1. The State robs the family of its inherent right to
educate the children.

2. It neglects intellectual education, giving undue prominence to the physical and moral; and
demands too great a part of the active life of man.

3. It makes the highest aim of education to prepare for war, and therefore does not cultivate
the arts of peace.

4. It excludes woman from the benefits of education.

ZOROASTER[11]

Zoroaster, the founder of the Persian religion, was a great teacher. The exact date of his
birth is unknown, but it is generally placed at about B.C. 600. The testimony of ancient classic
literature confirms the belief that he was an historical person. A tablet unearthed in Greece
contains an account of his life and his doctrines. Pliny says that he laughed on the day of
his birth and that for thirty years he lived in the wilderness on cheese. He was the founder
of the Magi priesthood, but did not teach the worship of fire.

His philosophy is dualistic. There are two spirits or principles that rule the universe. These
are Ormuzd, the principle of light, and Ahriman, the principle of darkness. These two opposing
principles are in constant conflict, each striving for the mastery. Man is the center of the
conflict, but Ormuzd as his creator has the greater power over him. All influences are summoned
to bring about the success of the good, and in the end it will surely prevail. No remission
of sin is taught, but judgment is represented as a bridge over which those whose good deeds
outweigh their evil deeds are allowed to pass to paradise: in case the evil deeds outweigh
the good, the person is cast off forever; in case of a balance of good and evil deeds, there
is another period of probation.

This dualism shows itself in nature as well as in the spiritual world. Order is opposed to
lawlessness, truth to falsehood, life to death, good to evil. It is a religion in which the
ideas of guilt and merit are carried out to the extreme. Zoroaster believed that he was the
prophet chosen to promulgate these doctrines, and his influence as a teacher upon the Persian
nation was unquestionably great. Persia is now a Mohammedan country.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] North American Review, Vol. 172, p. 132.

CHAPTER V

THE JEWS

=Literature.=--Hosmer, Story of the Jews; Clarke, Ten Great Religions; Durrell, New Life in
Education; Myers, Ancient History; Stoddard's Lectures; Lord, Beacon Lights of History; Josephus,
Antiquities of the Jews; Morrison, The Jews under Roman Rule; Larned, History for Ready Reference;
Hegel, Philosophy of History; Report of the United States Commissioner of Education, 1895;
Peters, Justice to the Jew.

