The occasional poetry of Dryden is marked strongly by masculine character. The Epistles vary
with the subject; and are light, humorous, and satirical, or grave, argumentative, and philosophical,
as the case required. In his Elegies, although they contain touches of true feeling, especially
where the stronger passions are to be illustrated, the poet is often content to substitute
reasoning for passion, and rather to show us cause why we ought to grieve, than to set us the
example by grieving himself. The inherent defect in Dryden's composition becomes here peculiarly
conspicuous; yet we should consider, that, in composing elegies for the Countess of Abingdon,
whom he never saw, and for Charles II., by whom he had been cruelly neglected, and doubtless
on many similar occasions, Dryden could not even pretend to be interested in the mournful subject
of his verse; but attended, with his poem, as much in the way of trade, as the undertaker,
on the same occasion, came with his sables and his scutcheon. The poet may interest himself
and his reader, even to tears, in the fate of a being altogether the creation of his own fancy,
but hardly by a hired panegyric on a real subject, in whom his heart acknowledges no other
interest than a fee can give him. Few of Dryden's elegiac effusions, therefore, seem prompted
by sincere sorrow. That to Oldham may be an exception; but, even there, he rather strives to
do honour to the talents of his departed friend, than to pour out lamentations for his loss.
Of the Prologues and Epilogues we have spoken fully elsewhere.[19]  Some of them are coarsely
satirical, and others grossly indelicate. Those spoken at Oxford are the most valuable, and
contain much good criticism and beautiful poetry. But the worst of them was probably well worth
the petty recompence which the poet received.[20] The songs and smaller pieces of Dryden have
smoothness, wit, and when addressed to ladies, gallantry in profusion, but are deficient in
tenderness. They seem to have been composed with great ease; thrown together hastily and occasionally;
nor can we doubt that many of them are now irrecoverably lost. Mr. Malone gives us an instance
of Dryden's fluency in extempore composition, which was communicated to him by Mr. Walcott.
"Conversation, one day after dinner, at Mrs. Creed's, running upon the origin of names, Mr.
Dryden bowed to the good old lady, and spoke extempore the following verses:--

  "So much religion in your name doth dwell,
  Your soul must needs with piety excel.
  Thus names, like [well-wrought] pictures drawn of old,
  Their owners' nature and their story told.--
  Your name but half expresses; for in you
  Belief and practice do together go.
  My prayers shall be, while this short life endures,
  These may go hand in hand, with you and yours;
  Till faith hereafter is in vision drowned,
  And practice is with endless glory crowned."

The Translations of Dryden form a distinguished part of his poetical labours. No author, excepting
Pope, has done so much to endenizen the eminent poets of antiquity. In this sphere, also, it
was the fate of Dryden to become a leading example to future poets, and to abrogate laws which
had been generally received although they imposed such trammels on translation as to render
it hardly intelligible. Before his distinguished success showed that the object of the translator
should be to transfuse the spirit, not to copy servilely the very words of his original, it
had been required, that line should be rendered for line, and, almost, word for word. It may
easily be imagined, that, by the constraint and inversion which this cramping statute required,
a poem was barely rendered not Latin, instead of being made English, and that, to the mere
native reader, as the connoisseur complains in "The Critic", the interpreter was sometimes
"the harder to be understood of the two." Those who seek examples, may find them in the jaw-breaking
translations of Ben Jonson and Holyday. Cowley and Denham had indeed rebelled against this
mode of translation, which conveys pretty much the same idea of an original, as an imitator
would do of the gait of another, by studiously stepping after him into every trace which his
feet had left upon the sand. But they assumed a licence equally faulty, and claimed the privilege
of writing what might be more properly termed imitations, than versions of the classics. It
was reserved to Dryden manfully to claim and vindicate the freedom of a just translation; more
limited than paraphrase, but free from the metaphrastic severity exacted from his predecessors.

With these free yet unlicentious principles, Dryden brought to the task of translation a competent
knowledge of the language of the originals, with an unbounded command of his own. The latter
is, however, by far the most marked characteristic of his Translations. Dryden was not indeed
deficient in Greek and Roman learning; but he paused not to weigh and sift those difficult
and obscure passages, at which the most learned will doubt and hesitate for the correct meaning.
The same rapidity, which marked his own poetry, seems to have attended his study of the classics.
He seldom waited to analyse the sentence he was about to render, far less scrupulously to weigh
the precise purport and value of every word it contained. If he caught the general spirit and
meaning of the author, and could express it with equal force in English verse, he cared not
if minute elegancies were lost, or the beauties of accurate proportion destroyed, or a dubious
interpretation hastily adopted on the credit of a scholium. He used abundantly the licence
he has claimed for a translator, to be deficient rather in the language out of which he renders,
than of that into which he translates. If such be but master of the sense of his author, Dryden
argues, he may express that sense with eloquence in his own tongue, though he understand not
the nice turns of the original. "But without the latter quality he can never arrive at the
useful and the delightful, without which reading is a penance and fatigue."[21] With the same
spirit of haste, Dryden if often contented to present to the English reader some modern image,
which he may at once fully comprehend, instead of rendering precisely a classic expression,
which might require explanation or paraphrase. Thus the pulchra Sicyonia, or buskins of Sicyon,
are rendered,

  "Diamond-buckles sparkling in their shoes."

By a yet more unfortunate adaptation of modern technical phraseology, the simple direction
of Helenus,

  "Læva tibi tellus, et longo læva pelantur
  Æquora circuitu: dextrum fage lillus et undas,"

is translated,

  "Tack to the larboard, and stand off to sea,
  Veer starboard sea and land:"

--a counsel which, I shrewdly suspect, would have been unintelligible, not only to Palinurus,
but to the best pilot in the British navy.[22] In the same tone, but with more intelligibility,
if not felicity, Dryden translates palatia coeli in Ovid, the Louvre of the sky; and, in the
version of the first book of Homer, talks of the court of Jupiter in the phrases used at that
of Whitehall. These expressions, proper to modern manners, often produce an unfortunate confusion
between the age in which the scene is laid, and the date of the translation. No judicious poet
is willing to break the interest of a tale of ancient times, by allusions peculiar to his own
period: but when the translator, instead of identifying himself as closely as possible with
the original author, pretends to such liberty, he removes us a third step from the time of
action, and so confounds the manners of no less than three distinct eras,--that in which the
scene is laid, that in which the poem was written, and that, finally, in which the translation
was executed. There are passages in Dryden's Æneid, which, in the revolution of a few pages,
transport our ideas from the time of Troy's siege to that of the court of Augustus, and thence
downward to the reign of William the Third of Britain.

It must be owned, at the same time, that when the translator places before you, not the exact
words, but the image of the original, as the classic author would probably have himself expressed
it in English, the licence, when moderately employed, has an infinite charm for those readers
for whose use translations are properly written. Pope's Homer and Dryden's Virgil can never
indeed give exquisite satisfaction to scholars, accustomed to study the Greek and Latin originals.
The minds of such readers have acquired a classic tone; and not merely the ideas and poetical
imagery, but the manners and habits of the actors, have become intimately familiar to them.
They will not, therefore, be satisfied with any translation in which these are violated, whether
for the sake of indolence in the translator, or ease to the unlettered reader; and perhaps
they will be more pleased that a favourite bard should move with less ease and spirit in his
new habiliments, than that his garments should be cut upon the model of the country to which
the stranger is introduced. In the former case, they will readily make allowance for the imperfection
of modern language; in the latter, they will hardly pardon the sophistication of ancient manners.
But the mere English reader, who finds rigid adherence to antique costume rather embarrassing
than pleasing, who is prepared to make no sacrifices in order to preserve the true manners
of antiquity, shocking perhaps to his feelings and prejudices, is satisfied that the Iliad
and Æneid shall lose their antiquarian merit, provided they retain that vital spirit and energy,
which is the soul of poetry in all languages, and countries, and ages whatsoever. He who sits
down to Dryden's translation of Virgil, with the original text spread before him, will be at
no loss to point out many passages that are faulty, many indifferently understood, many imperfectly
translated, some in which dignity is lost, others in which bombast is substituted in its stead.
But the unabated vigour and spirit of the version more than overbalances these and all its
other deficiencies. A sedulous scholar might often approach more nearly to the dead letter
of Virgil, and give an exact, distinct, sober-minded idea of the meaning and scope of particular
passages. Trapp, Pitt, and others have done so. But the essential spirit of poetry is so volatile,
that it escapes during such an operation, like the life of the poor criminal, whom the ancient
anatomist is said to have dissected alive, in order to ascertain the seat of the soul. The
carcase indeed is presented to the English reader, but the animating vigour is no more. It
is in this art, of communicating the ancient poet's ideas with force and energy equal to his
own, that Dryden has so completely exceeded all who have gone before, and all who have succeeded
him. The beautiful and unequalled version of the Tale of Myrrha in the "Metamorphoses," the
whole of the Sixth Æneid, and many other parts of Dryden's translations, are sufficient, had
he never written one line of original poetry, to vindicate the well-known panegyric of Churchill:--

  "Here let me bend, great Dryden, at thy shrine,
  Thou dearest name to all the tuneful Nine!
  What if some dull lines in cold order creep,
  And with his theme the poet seems to sleep?
  Still, when his subject rises proud to view,
  With equal strength the poet rises too:
  With strong invention, noblest vigour fraught,
  Thought still springs up, and rises out of thought;
  Numbers ennobling numbers in their course,
  In varied sweetness flow, in varied force;
  The powers of genius and of judgment join,
  And the whole art of poetry is thine."

We are in this disquisition naturally tempted to inquire, whether Dryden would have succeeded
in his proposed design to translate Homer, as happily as in his Virgil? And although he himself
more fiery, and therefore better suited to his own than that of the Roman poet, there may be
room to question, whether in this case he rightly estimated his own talents, or rather, whether,
being fully conscious of their extent, he was aware of labouring under certain deficiencies
of taste, which must have been more apparent in a version of the Iliad than of the Æneid. If
a translator has any characteristic and peculiar foible, it is surely unfortunate to choose
an original, who may give peculiar facilities to exhibit them. Thus, even Dryden's repeated
disclamation of puns, points, and quibbles, and all the repentance of his more sober hours,
was unable, so soon as he began to translate Ovid, to prevent his sliding back into the practice
of that false wit with which his earlier productions are imbued. Hence he has been seduced,
by the similarity of style, to add to the offences of his original, and introduce, though it
needed not, points of wit and antithetical prettinesses, for which he cannot plead Ovid's authority.
For example, he makes Ajax say of Ulysses, when surrounded by the Trojans,

  "No wonder if he roared that all might hear,
  His elocution was increased by fear."

The Latin only bears, conclamat socios. A little lower,

  "Opposui molem clypei, texique jacentem,"

is amplified by a similar witticism,

  "My broad buckler hid him from the foe,
  Even the shield trembled as he lay below."

If, in translating Ovid, Dryden was tempted by the manner of his original to relapse into a
youthful fault, which he had solemnly repented of and abjured, there is surely room to believe,
that the simple and almost rude manners described by Homer, might have seduced him into coarseness
both of ideas and expression, for which the studied, composed, and dignified style of the Aeneid
gave neither opening nor apology. That this was a fault which Dryden, with all his taste, never
was able to discard, might easily be proved from various passages in his translations, where
the transgression is on his own part altogether gratuitous. Such is the well-known version of

    "Ut possessor agelli
  Diceret, hoec mea sunt, veteres migrate coloni,
  Nune vidi," etc.

  "When the grim captain, with a surly tone,
  Cries out, Pack up, ye rascals, and be gone!
  Kicked out, we set the best face on't we could," etc.

In translating the most indelicate passage of Lucretius, Dryden has rather enhanced than veiled
its indecency. The story of Iphis in the Metamorphoses is much more bluntly told by the English
poet than by Ovid. In short, where there was a latitude given for coarseness of description
and expression, Dryden has always too readily laid hold of it. The very specimen which he has
given us of a version of Homer, contains many passages in which the antique Grecian simplicity
is vulgarly and inelegantly rendered. The Thunderer terms Juno

  "My household curse, my lawful plague, the spy
  Of Jove's designs, his other squinting eye."

The ambrosial feast of Olympus concludes like a tavern revel:--

  "Drunken at last, and drowsy, they depart
  Each to his house, adored with laboured art
  Of the lame architect. The thundering God,
  Even he, withdrew to rest, and had his load;
  His swimming head to needful sleep applied,
  And Juno lay unheeded by his side."

There is reason indeed to think, that, after the Revolution, Dryden's taste was improved in
this, as in some other respects. In his translation of Juvenal, for example, the satire against
women, coarse as it is, is considerably refined and softened from the grossness of the Latin
poet; who has, however, been lately favoured by a still more elegant, and (excepting perhaps
one or two passages) an equally spirited translation, by Mr. Gifford of London. Yet, admitting
this apology for Dryden as fully as we dare, from the numerous specimens of indelicacy even
in his later translations, we are induced to judge it fortunate that Homer was reserved for
a poet who had not known the age of Charles II.; and whose inaccuracies and injudicious decorations
may be pardoned, even by the scholar, when he considers the probability, that Dryden might
have slipped into the opposite extreme, by converting rude simplicity into indecency or vulgarity.
The Æneid, on the other hand, if it restrained Dryden's poetry to a correct, steady, and even
flight, if it damped his energy by its regularity, and fettered his excursive imagination by
the sobriety of its decorum, had the corresponding advantage of holding forth to the translator
no temptation to licence, and no apology for negligence. Where the fervency of genius is required,
Dryden has usually equalled his original; where peculiar elegance and exact propriety is demanded,
his version may be sometimes found flat and inaccurate, but the mastering spirit of Virgil
prevails, and it is never disgusting or indelicate. Of all the classical translations we can
boast, none is so acceptable to the class of readers, to whom the learned languages are a clasped
book and a sealed fountain. And surely it is no moderate praise to say, that a work is universally
pleasing to those for whose use it is principally intended, and to whom only it is absolutely
indispensable.

The prose of Dryden may rank with the best in the English language. It is no less of his own
formation than his versification, is equally spirited, and equally harmonious. Without the
lengthened and pedantic sentences of Clarendon, it is dignified where dignity is becoming,
and is lively without the accumulation of strained and absurd allusions and metaphors, which
were unfortunately mistaken for wit by many of the author's contemporaries. Dryden has been
accused of unnecessarily larding his style with Gallicisms. It must be owned that, to comply
probably with the humour of Charles, or from an affectation of the fashionable court dialect,
the poet-laureate employed such words as fougue, fraicheur, etc., instead of the corresponding
expressions in English; an affectation which does not appear in our author's later writings.
But even the learned and excellent Sir David Dalrymple was led to carry this idea greatly too
far. "Nothing," says that admirable antiquary, "distinguishes the genius of the English language
so much as its general naturalisation of foreigners. Dryden in the reign of Charles II., printed
the following words as pure French newly imported: amour, billet-doux, caprice, chagrin, conversation,
double-entendre, embarrassed, fatigue, figure, foible, gallant, good graces, grimace, incendiary,
levée, maltreated, rallied, repartée, ridicule, tender, tour; with several others which are
now considered as natives.-- 'Marriage à la Mode.'"[23] But of these words many had been long
naturalised in England, and, with the adjectives derived from them, are used by Shakespeare
and the dramatists of his age.[24] By their being printed in italics in the play of "Marriage
à la Mode," Dryden only meant to mark, that Melantha, the affected coquette in whose mouth
they are placed, was to use the French, not the vernacular pronunciation. It will admit of
question, whether any single French word has been naturalised upon the sole authority of Dryden.

Although Dryden's style has nothing obsolete, we can occasionally trace a reluctance to abandon
an old word or idiom; the consequence, doubtless of his latter studies in ancient poetry. In
other respects, nothing can be more elegant than the diction of the praises heaped upon his
patrons, for which he might himself plead the apology he uses for Maimbourg, "who, having enemies,
made himself friends by panegyrics."

The last paragraph is not to be understood too literally; for although Dryden never so far
copied himself as to fall into what has been quaintly called mannerism; yet accurate observation
may trace, in his works, the repetition of some sentiments and illustrations from prose to
verse, and back again to prose.[24] In his preface to the Æneid, he has enlarged on the difficulty
of varying phrases, when the same sense returned on the author; and surely we must allow full
praise to his fluency and command of language, when, during so long a literary career, and
in the course of such a variety of miscellaneous productions, we can detect in his style so
few instances of repetition, or self-imitation.

The prose of Dryden, excepting his translations, and one or two controversial tracts, is entirely
dedicated to criticism, either general and didactic, or defensive and exculpatory. There, as
in other branches of polite learning, it was his lot to be a light to his people. About the
time of the Restoration, the cultivation of letters was prosecuted in France with some energy.
But the genius of that lively nation being more fitted for criticism than poetry; for drawing
rules from what others have done, than for writing works which might be themselves standards;
they were sooner able to produce an accurate table of laws for those intending to write epic
poems and tragedies, according to the best Greek and Roman authorities, than to exhibit distinguished
specimens of success in either department; just as they are said to possess the best possible
rules for building ships of war, although not equally remarkable for their power of fighting
them. When criticism becomes a pursuit separate from poetry, those who follow it are apt to
forget, that the legitimate ends of the art for which they lay down rules, are instruction
or delight, and that these points being attained, by what road soever, entitles a poet to claim
the prize of successful merit. Neither did the learned authors of these disquisitions sufficiently
attend to the general disposition of mankind, which cannot be contented even with the happiest
imitations of former excellence, but demands novelty as a necessary ingredient for amusement.
To insist that every epic poem shall have the plan of the Iliad and Æneid, and every tragedy
be fettered by the rules of Aristotle, resembles the principle of an architect, who should
build all his houses with the same number of windows, and of stories. It happened too, inevitably,
that the critics, in the plenipotential authority which they exercised, often assumed as indispensable
requisites of the drama, or epopeia, circumstances, which, in the great authorities they quoted,
were altogether accidental and indifferent. These they erected into laws, and handed down as
essentials to be observed by all succeeding poets; although the forms prescribed have often
as little to do with the merit and success of the originals from which they are taken, as the
shape of the drinking-glass with the flavour of the wine which it contains. "To these encroachments,"
says Fielding, after some observations to the same purpose, "time and ignorance, the two great
supporters of imposture, gave authority;  and thus many rules for good writing have been established,
which have not the least foundation in truth or nature; and which commonly serve for no other
purpose than to curb and restrain genius, in the same manner as it would have restrained the
dancing-master, had the many excellent treatises on that art laid it down as an essential rule,
that every man must dance in chains."[25] It is probable, that the tyranny of the French critics,
fashionable as the literature of that country was with Charles and his courtiers, would have
extended itself over England at the Restoration, had not a champion so powerful as Dryden placed
himself in the gap. We have mentioned in its place his "Essay on Dramatic Poetry," the first
systematic piece of criticism which our literature has to exhibit. In this Essay, he was accused
of entertaining private views, of defending some of his own pieces, at least of opening the
door of the theatre wider, and rendering its access more easy, for his own selfish convenience.
Allowing this to be true in whole, as it may be in part, we are as much obliged to Dryden for
resisting the domination of Gallic criticism, as we are to the fanatics who repressed the despotism
of the crown, although they buckled on their armour against white surplices, and the cross
in baptism. The character which Dryden has drawn of our English dramatists in the Essay, and
the various prefaces connected with it, have unequalled spirit and precision. The contrast
of Ben Jonson with Shakespeare is peculiarly and strikingly felicitous. While Dryden examined,
discussed, admitted, or rejected the rules proposed by others, he forbore, from prudence, indolence,
or a regard for the freedom of Parnassus, to erect himself into a legislator. His doctrines,
which chiefly respect the intrinsic qualities necessary in poetry, are scattered, without system
of pretence to it, over the numerous pages of prefatory and didactic essays, with which he
enriched his publications. It is impossible to read far in any of them, without finding some
maxim for doing or forbearing, which every student of poetry will do well to engrave upon the
tablets of his memory. But the author's mode of instruction is neither harsh nor dictatorial.
When his opinion changed, as in the case of rhyming tragedies, he avows the change with candour,
and we are enabled the more courageously to follow his guidance, when we perceive the readiness
with which he retracts his path, if he strays into error. The gleams of philosophical spirit
which so frequently illumine these pages of criticism; the lively and appropriate grace of
illustration; the true and correct expression of the general propositions; the simple and unaffected
passages, in which, when led to allude to his personal labours and situation, he mingles the
feelings of the man with the instructions of the critic,--unite to render Dryden's Essays the
most delightful prose in the English language.

