The body of the lynx, beautifully spotted with black and brown rings, is more solid and hardy
than that of the wild cat. His ears are longer, his tail is shorter, his great eyes light up
like bright flames; and since he prowls about chiefly at night, he is thought to have very
keen sight. For this reason, when we wish to say that a person can see very clearly or can
look beyond the outward appearance of things, we call him lynx-eyed. Like all cats, the lynx
possesses in his mustache a very correct power of feeling. This, with the sense of hearing
and sight, guides him in all his expeditions.

The lynx in the picture is in the act of springing upon a timid hare. Although he can measure
twenty paces in a jump, I think for once he has made a misstep, and the dear little creature
with one more bound will be safe. One very remarkable fact about these animals is this: if
there are several together, and one starts over the snow in pursuit of booty, all the others
will follow in exactly the same tracks, so that it will look as if but one lynx had passed
over the snow-covered earth.

THE SWAN AND THE DRAKE.

Slowly, in majestic silence,
  Sailed a Swan upon a lake;
Round about him, never quiet,
  Swam a noisy quacking Drake.

"Swan," exclaimed the latter, halting,
  "I can scarcely comprehend
Why I never hear you talking:
  Are you really dumb, my friend?"

Said the Swan, by way of answer:
  "I have wondered, when you make
Such a shocking, senseless clatter,
  Whether you are deaf, Sir Drake!"

Better, like the Swan, remain in
  Silence grave and dignified,
Than keep, drake-like, ever prating,
  While your listeners deride.

W. R. E.

THE BEAVER.

This industrious animal is generally found in Canada and the northern portions of the United
States, where it makes its home on the banks of the rivers and lakes. Here they assemble in
hundreds to assist each other in the construction of their dams, and in the building of their
houses, which are put together with a considerable amount of engineering skill. The materials
used in building the dams are wood, stones, and mud, which they collect themselves for that
purpose, and after finishing the dam, or winter storehouse, they collect their stores for the
winter's use, and then make a connection with their houses in the banks. Their skins are valuable
in making fine hats, and their flesh is much relished by the hunters. The beaver is an interesting
animal in many respects, and the expression "busy as a beaver" is borne out by its habits.

LIONESS AND CUBS.

The lioness is much smaller than the lion, and her form is more slender and graceful. She is
devoid of the mane of her lord and master, and has four or five cubs at a birth, which are
all born blind. The young lions are at first obscurely striped and spotted. They mew like cats,
and are as playful as kittens. As they get older, the uniform color is gradually assumed. The
mane appears in the males at the end of ten or twelve months, and at the age of eighteen months
it is very considerably developed, and they begin to roar. Both in nature and in a state of
captivity the lioness is very savage as soon as she becomes a mother, and the lion himself
is then most to be dreaded, as he will then brave almost any risk for the sake of his lioness
and family.

A PET JACK.

The first fish I ever saw in an aquarium, twenty years ago, was a "Jack," as he is called when
young, or a "Pike," when he grows older; and ever since then I have contrived to have a pet
one, and this, drawn from life by Mr. Harrison Weir, is an accurate portrait of the one I now
possess in the Crystal Palace Aquarium. There he is, just as he steals round the corner of
a bit of rock. He is glaring at a minnow, at which he is taking most accurate aim; he hardly
seems to move, but yet he does by a very trifling motion of the edge of his back fin--sometimes
resting a little on the tips of his two foremost fins, as they touch the ground, carefully
calculating his distance; and then, at the very moment when the minnow has got into a position
which leaves a space of clear water in front, so that Mr. Jack shall not hurt his nose against
any hard substance when he gets carried on by the violence of his rush, he darts at the minnow
with the speed of Shakspeare's Puck:--

"I go, I go! look, how I go! Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow."

THE SWALLOW'S NEST.

Often in former years the twitter of the birds glittering in the morning sun was the first
sound that met my ear during the wakeful hours which frequently accompany illness after the
worst crisis has passed, and you are recovering by degrees. The gutters ran beneath my bedroom
windows, and I could see the steel-blue backs of the swallows as they sat on the rims of the
gutter, twisting their little heads, opening their yellow-lined beaks, singing to their hearts'
content. Whole families would perch there together, or the young would rest in rows of four
or five, according to the nest-broods of each. How delightful to see them fed by their agile
parents! how tantalizing to have them almost within reach of my hands, yet not to be able to
catch them or give them a kiss, as they would cower in my hollow hands if I only could have
got them in there!

THE BRAVE DOG OF ST. BERNARD.

Where the St. Bernard Pass climbs up
  Amid the Alpine snows,
The far-famed Hospice crowns the heights
  With shelter and repose.

Its inmates, with their faithful dogs,
  Are truly friends in need
When snowdrifts block the traveler's way,
  And blinding storms mislead.

Brave "Barry," once, far down the track
  That crossed a glacier steep,
Found buried deep beneath the snow
  A poor boy, fast asleep.

He licked the cold, numb hands and face
  To warmth and life once more,
And bore him safely on his back
  Up to the Hospice door.

G--THE GIRAFFE.

Full seventeen feet the Giraffe tall Measures "from top to toe," And with his neck outstretched
can reach The branch that bendeth low.

H--THE HYENA.

In Asia and in Africa The fierce Hyenas prowl, And oft at night the traveler starts To hear
their savage howl.

I--THE ICHNEUMON.

A foe to birds and rats and mice, See the Ichneumon glide! Oft, too, on reptiles or their eggs
Its hungry teeth are tried.

MOTHER-DEER AND BABY.

Something has startled them, as they fed securely enough, one would think, on the grass at
the foot of the rocks; and if we could only get a little nearer, this is what we should hear
the mother-deer saying to her baby: "My child, I am sure there is danger about; look out and
tell me if you see the slightest movement on the hill yonder, or if I see it first, I will
give you the signal, and you must follow me, and run for your very life." And the baby, with
cocked ears and glistening eyes, promises to do as it is told. But after all it will probably
prove a false alarm, for this is not the time of year for deerstalking; and I dare say the
noise they heard was made by a party of people coming up the valley below to see the waterfall,
which is famous in the neighborhood.

WHOOPING CRANE.

The Whooping Crane is much larger than the common crane, which it otherwise much resembles
except in color; its plumage, in its adult state, is pure white, the tips of the wings black.
He spends the winter in the southern parts of North America, and in summer migrates far northwards.
The crane feeds on roots, seeds, etc., as well as on reptiles, worms, insects, and on some
of the smaller quadrupeds. They journey in flocks from fifty to a hundred, and rise to an immense
height in the air, uttering their loud harsh cries, and occasionally alighting to seek food
in fields or marshes; and when they descend on a field they do sad havoc to the crops, several
doing sentinel duty while the majority are feeding. In general it is a very peaceful bird,
both in its own society and those of the forest.

THE ELK.

This is the largest existing species of the deer family, and is a native of the northern parts
of Europe, Asia, and Africa. It grows to be six feet high and twelve hundred pounds in weight.
They are very rare in Europe and this country, but at one time they extended as far south as
the Ohio River. They love the woods and marshy places, and live off of the branches of trees,
being unable to eat grass unless they get upon their knees. They are very timid, and not easily
approached by the hunter, but should a dog come in the way, one stroke from an elk's foot will
kill it. Many of the parents of our little friends in Maine and Canada are, no doubt, familiar
with the elk and its habits.

TOYS FOR ANIMALS.

The "Daily News" says: "Our readers have often doubtless observed appeals in the papers for
toys for sick children. We hear that a naturalist who feels much for animals is struck with
the cruelty of leaving the creatures at the 'Zoo' without anything to play with. This gentleman
had in his possession a young otter, for whom he made a wooden ball, to the extreme delight
of his pet, who used to divert his simple instinct with it for whole hours at a stretch. Following
up the idea, the same gentleman presented the elephants and rhinoceroses in the Zoological
Gardens with globes for diversion suited to their sizes, but it seems the elephants took to
playing ball so furiously, that 'there was danger of their houses being swept down altogether;
so they were forbidden to use them indoors.' The polar bear was given a toy which, we are told,
'amuses him immensely.'"

THE SUCKING-PIG.

The other day our children came home delighted at having seen a little pig drinking out of
a bottle, just like a baby. I went to see it, and I was introduced to its owner, who lived
in a cottage, the principal room of which was painted light blue. A good-natured old woman
was there with her two orphan grand-children. The red tiles of the cottage floor were enlivened
by a gray-and-white cat, and a shiny-skinned little pig, of about a month old, which was fed
out of a feeding-bottle. This was the hero of the place.

The little pig is grateful for good treatment, and as capable of attachment as a horse or a
dog. The pig is intelligent, and it can be taught tricks. Performing pigs are often the attractions
of country fairs. I have seen pigs in the poor neighborhoods of London follow their masters
through noisy streets, and into busy public-houses, where they laid down at their masters'
feet like a dog.

BELL-RINGERS.

When a child, my father took me to see some feats performed by some traveling cats. They were
called "the bell-ringers," and were respectively named Jet, Blanche, Tom, Mop, and Tib.

Five bells were hung at regular intervals on a round hoop erected on a sort of stage. A rope
was attached to each bell after the manner of church bells. At a given signal from their master,
they all sprang to their feet, and at a second signal, each advanced to the ropes, and standing
on their hind feet, stuck their front claws firmly into the ropes, which were in that part
covered with worsted, or something of the kind, so as to give the claws a firmer hold. There
was a moment's pause--then No. 1 pulled his or her rope, and so sounded the largest bell; No.
2 followed, then No. 3, and so on, till a regular peal was rung with almost as much precision
and spirit as though it were human hands instead of cats' claws that effected it.

THE GUINEA-PIG.

The Guinea-pig is a native of South America, and is remarkable for the beauty and variety of
its colors, and the neatness of its appearance. These little pets are very careful in keeping
themselves and their offspring neat and tidy, and may be frequently seen smoothing and dressing
their fur, somewhat in the manner of a cat. After having smoothed and dressed each other's
fur, both turn their attention to their young, from whose coats they remove the smallest speck
of dirt, at the same time trying to keep their hair smooth and unruffled. The Guinea-pig feeds
on bread, grain, fruit, vegetables, tea leaves, and especially garden parsley, to which it
is very partial. It generally gives birth to seven and eight young at a time, and they very
soon are able to take care of themselves.

J--THE JAY.

Methinks the Jay's a noisy bird,
  Yet now with crimson breast,
Silent and fond, she watches o'er
  The treasures of her nest.

K--THE KANGAROO.

The timid Kangaroo frequents
  The wild Australian brakes;
With long hind-legs and fore-legs short
  Tremendous leaps he takes.

L--THE LION.

With tawny hide and flowing mane,
  And loud-resounding roar,
Of animals the Lion's king,
  And all bow down before.

WAITING.

Waiting for master to come down the stair, Are "Noble" and "Floss," and his favorite mare--
"Brenda" the gentle, with skin soft and gray, Waiting the signal, "Now off and away."

Noble stands holding the whip and the rein, His gaze fixed on Brenda, who tosses her mane;
While dear little Floss sits quietly by, Winking and blinking her liquid brown eye.

Master's so kind to them--nothing to fear Have horse or dogs when his footsteps they hear;
Look how they're waiting with eagerness there, Ready to go with him everywhere.

And what a pleasure it is when these three There on the staircase their kind master see; Now
he is mounted, the waiting is o'er-- Floss, Brenda, and Noble race off from the door.

THE ARGUS.

The Argus is a bird with magnificent plumage; it inhabits the forests of Java and Sumatra,
and takes its place beside the pheasant, from which it only differs in being unprovided with
spurs, and by the extraordinary development of the secondary feathers of the wings in the male.
The tail is large and round, and the two middle feathers are extremely long and quite straight.
When paraded, as it struts round the female, spreading its wings and tail, this bird presents
to the dazzled eye of the spectator two splendid bronze-colored fans, upon which is sprinkled
a profusion of bright marks much resembling eyes. It owes its name of Argus to these spots.

THE YOUNG MONKEY.

A little Monkey chanced to find A walnut in its outward rind; He snatched the prize with eager
haste, And bit it, but its bitter taste Soon made him throw the fruit away. "I've heard," he
cried, "my mother say (But she was wrong), the fruit was good; Preserve me from such bitter
food!" A monkey by experience taught, The falling prize with pleasure caught; Took off the
husk and broke the shell, The kernel peeled, and liked it well. "Walnuts," said he, "are good
and sweet, But must be opened ere you eat." And thus in life you'll always find Labor comes
first--reward behind.

THE CLEVER FOX.

One summer's day on the banks of the river Tweed, in Scotland, a fox sat watching a brood of
wild ducks feeding in the river. Presently a branch of a fir tree floated in their midst, which
caused them to rise in the air, and after circling round for some time, they again settled
down on their feeding ground. At short intervals this was repeated, the branch floating from
the same direction, until the ducks took no further notice of it than allowing it to pass by.
Mr. Reynard noticed this; so he got a larger branch than the others, and crouching down among
the leaves, got afloat, and coming to the ducks, who took no notice of the branch, he seized
two of the ducks, and then allowed himself to be floated to the other side, where, we suppose,
he had a repast.

TESTING HIS STRENGTH.

See this monster of the forest uprooting trees, as a test of its strength before entering on
a fight with one of its companions, which is often a bitter struggle for supremacy. There are
two species of Elephants, the Indian and African; the ears of the latter are much larger than
the Indian, covering the whole shoulder, and descending on the legs. Elephants live in herds,
and each herd has a leader--generally the largest and most powerful animal--who exercises much
control over the herd, directing its movements, and giving the signal in the case of danger.
The trunk of the Elephant is of great service to it, and is a wonderful combination of muscle;
Curier, the famous Naturalist, stating that there is not far short of 40,000 muscles, having
distinct action, and so giving it an acute sense of touch and smell--so much so, that it can
pick up a pin, or pluck the smallest leaf. The Elephant is generally about ten feet high, and
sometimes reaches to twelve feet, and lives to the age of seventy or eighty years.

A WISE DOG.

There is a curly retriever at Arundel bearing the name of "Shock," which sets an example of
good manners and intelligence to the animals which are not dumb. He carries the cat of the
stables tenderly in his mouth, and would carry the kitten, but at present the kitten prefers
its own means of locomotion. When Sanger's elephant got into trouble in the river Arun, this
wise Shock was sent to turn him out, and his perseverance succeeded. He often will insist on
carrying a bundle of umbrellas to the station, and safely he delivers them to their owners,
and then, with many wags of his brown tail, he demands a halfpenny for his trouble. This halfpenny
he carries to the nearest shop, lays it on the counter, and receives his biscuit in return.
Need we say this dog has a kind, sensible master?

M--THE MANDRILL.

In Africa the Mandrill lives,
  Full five feet tall he stands;
With furrowed cheek-bones, tufted hair,
  And hairy arms and hands.

N--THE NYLGHAU.

In Hindustan's dense forest-depths,
  Among the tangled groves,
With slender limbs but powerful frame
  The shapely Nylghau roves.

O--THE OSTRICH.

O'er desert sands the Ostrich skims,
  Beneath a burning sky;
Swift as the swiftest horse he runs,
  But has no wings to fly.

SPRING.

When Spring's soft breath sets free the rills,
  And melts the Winter's hoards of snow,
How fast they leap adown the hills,
  How wildly t'wards old ocean flow!

Jack Frost! we gladly part with thee,
  For long indeed thy iron hand
Hath crushed the flowers relentlessly
  That longed to brighten all the land.

And now the busy plow can trace
  Its furrows through the fallow ground,
While countless lovely blossoms grace
  The blooming fruit trees all around.

Yet though the snow amidst the brook
  Is gliding fast--it fain would stay,
And as it takes a lingering look,
  Says:--"Listen ere I flow away!

"Soon as Spring spoke its royal word,
  I humbly doffed my wintry cap--
But when the north wind's voice was heard,
  I covered up the earth's green lap.

"And gently swathed each baby flower,
  As snug as in a feather bed--
Until in field, and wood, and bower,
  Their fragrance might be safely shed.

"And now my snowdrops gaily ring
  A merry peal to herald May--
And all rejoice at coming Spring,
  While I must hasten far away!"

SUMMER.

Now the corn has grown ripe in the Summer's hot days,
  And the reaping began with the sun's early rays,
      Mike and Jack since the morn,
      Have been cutting the corn,
    Which is bound up by Peggy and Sue;
And gay, flaunting poppies and flow'rets of blue
Wag their heads o'er the sheaves and seem nodding at you.

But when noon's sultry hour proves oppressively hot,
The reapers look out for a cool, shady spot,
      And a respite they snatch,
      Their short meal to dispatch,
    And well earned indeed is their rest!
While the children give chase to the hare that's hard prest,
Or the bird by the harvest disturbed from her nest.

For what care the children for heat or for work,
At that age when all labor so gaily we shirk?
      Play, then, little ones, play,
      And enjoy while ye may,
    But to all of God's creatures be kind--
Then when months have rolled by and left Summer behind,
Its joys unalloyed shall still dwell in your mind.

TIMOTHY.

Timothy was our pet hedgehog. I bought him in Leadenhall Market, brought him home, and put
him into the back-garden, which is walled in. There, to that extent, he had his liberty, and
many, and many a time did I watch him from my study window walking about in the twilight among
the grass, searching for worms and other insects. And very useful was he to the plants by so
doing. When the dry weather came food got more scarce; then Timothy was fed with bread and
milk from the back-kitchen window, which is on a level with the stone. Soon he came to know
that when he was hungry there was the supply; and often he would come and scratch at the glass
or at the back-door for his supper, and after getting it, walk off to the garden beds to make
himself useful. Few people know of the great use of a hedgehog in a garden, or they would be
more generally kept. Our Timothy, poor fellow, however, in spite of all his good qualities,
came to a bad end. A strange dog coming one day, saw him walking about in search of his accustomed
food, and pounced on him and bit him; still I had hopes of his recovery, but in a few days
he died, and all of us were sorry.

THE BRAVE COCKATOO.

One Charles Durand, of whose travels and adventures a book has been written, owned a cockatoo,
which he carried about with him on his journeys; the bird's name was Billy, and he seems to
have been as wise as he was loving. Charles was asleep in his tent, when he was roused by a
sharp, shrill cry of the bird, of "Time to rise! time to rise!" accompanied by a violent flapping
of the wings. So awakened, Charles looked around, wondering what had disturbed his feathered
friend. The cause was soon plain--a deadly snake lay coiled up close to his bed, prepared to
spring on the defenseless man. Just when he thought that all hope was at an end, the brave
cockatoo sprang from his perch, seized the reptile by the neck, and held him tight till his
master could summon help.

HARE TAKING THE WATER.

I was pike-fishing one season on the Dorset Stour below Canford Major, when on passing from
one field to another, I disturbed a hare. The animal at once entered an open, dry drain, and
I lost sight of her. Presently, as I silently made my way plying my rod by the bank, I saw
her, this time without any appearance of alarm, take to the water, and making her way through
the sedges. She put her head to the stream so that the force of the current, with but slight
exertion by swimming on her part, carried her nearly in a straight line to the opposite bank.
Here I watched her to see whether she would trundle herself like a dog, but she merely rested
a bit, letting the water run from her, and then set off at a rattling pace across the mead,
which doubtless soon thoroughly dried her.

AUTUMN.

The breeze is somewhat cooler growing,
  The flowers less scent unfold--
But see!--the luscious grape is growing
  With purple or with gold.
    Now drain we up
    The social cup,
  When music blithe invites us--
Though Winter threatens from afar
Our present mirth he shall not mar,
  While Autumn still delights us.

Yes! Autumn brings the best of pleasures,
  With grape and garnered corn--
And lays in stores of future treasures
  To glad the year unborn.
    What need we dread,
    When wine and bread
  God's bounteous hand hath given?
Oh! rather let our voices raise,
In fervent hope and humble praise,
  A grateful hymn to Heaven!

WINTER.

Stern Winter--most unwelcome guest!-- The earth in whitest robes has drest; And hast'ning through
the crunching snow, With tinkling bells, the sledges go.

The leafless wood looks drear and sad, No birds sing now with voices glad;-- But boys are romping
far and wide, And o'er the ice delight to slide.

When on the panes with frost encased, The mimic fir-trees may be traced, In spite of biting
cold and snow, Poor housewives to the forest go.

And there they gather moss to form Their children's bed all soft and warm, And dried up twigs
to make a blaze That cheers the hearth with kindling rays.

Their treasures next the ashes yield, And hot potatoes lie revealed, Which little hungry mouths
invite, With dainty smell and welcome sight.

Lord! all Thy ways are great and good! Thou giv'st e'en orphaned birds their food-- Thy blessing
and Thy fostering care Alike the hut and palace share!

OUR WILD BIRDS.

I dare say you notice that all the birds in this picture have long beaks. We may be sure from
this that they live in places and seek for their food in ways in which long beaks are just
what they want. The fact is they are all marsh birds, and the soil of marshes being wet and
soft, and full of worms, these long beaks enable them to probe it, and so get at the worms.
I think the beaks of birds afford a striking example of how good God is in adapting creatures
to the mode of life He has appointed for them. The eagles and hawks, you know, are provided
with strong, short bills to enable them to seize and tear flesh. Those of canaries and all
the finches are just the very instruments to crack seeds with. Parrots, with their tremendous
weapons, can crush the hardest nuts of the tropic forest. The crossbill is fitted with a wonderful
tool for tearing fir-cones to pieces. Robins and the other warblers have soft bills, which
are all they want for eating insects and grubs.

I would rather be my lady's hawk,
  And perch upon her hand,
Than I would be the deerhound grim,
  To range this forest-land.

P--THE PELICAN.

On river banks, on shores of lakes,
  Or marge of sounding sea,
The Pelican, in quest of fish,
  Roams uncontrolled and free.

Q--THE QUAIL.

When come the leaves and buds of spring
  Then comes the swift-winged quail:
But ever quits our western lands
  Before the winter pale.

R--THE RHINOCEROS.

Down to the waterside to drink,
  Within the jungle's shade,
Has come the huge Rhinoceros,
  In knotty hide arrayed.

BLACKBIRDS AND YOUNG.

A country lad having taken the nest of some blackbirds containing young ones, made off with
it, but was closely pursued by the parents, who tried to peck his face so as to make him give
them up. Mr. Jesse relates a similar instance, where a pair of old birds followed a boy into
a house, pecking at his head while he was carrying off one of their young ones. People little
think of the misery they cause when they rob the birds of their nestlings.

The bird's nest is thus described:

Now put together odds and ends, Picked up from enemies and friends: See bits of thread and
bits of rag, Just like a little rubbish bag.

A USEFUL PILOT.

There is a trained sheep kept on board a steamer plying in California. It goes out on the gang-plank,
when a flock is to be loaded, to show that the approach is safe, and to act as pilot to the
flock, which readily follows it on to the boat. The sheep, when in a flock, are all alike timid,
and it is difficult to find a leader among them, each being afraid to go first; but when one
goes, they all follow after, so that this clever sheep is very valuable. The only other way
to get a flock on board a ship is to catch one and drag it on board; but this is not such a
good way as having the clever "Pilot."

JACK.

