"Nay, Mrs. Gwynn," said he, "you spoke truth at first. Your own good sense told you Nest would
never be fit to be any man's wife--unless, indeed, she could catch Mr. Griffiths of Tynwntyrybwlch;
he might keep her a carriage, may be." Edward really did not mean to be unfeeling; but he was
obtuse, and wished to carry off his embarrassment by a kind of friendly joke, which he had
no idea would sting the poor mother as it did. He was startled at her manner.

"Put it in words like a man. Whatever you mean by my child, say it for yourself, and don't
speak as if my good sense had told me any thing. I stand here, doubting my own thoughts, cursing
my own fears. Don't be a coward. I ask you whether you and Nest are troth-plight?"

"I am not a coward. Since you ask me, I answer, Nest and I were troth-plight; but we are not.
I can not--no one would expect me to wed a cripple. It's your own doing I've told you now;
I had made up my mind, but I should have waited a bit before telling you."

"Very well," said she, and she turned to go away; but her wrath bust the flood-gates, and swept
away discretion and forethought. She moved and stood in the gateway. Her lips parted, but no
sound came; with an hysterical motion she threw her arms suddenly up to heaven, as if bringing
down lightning toward the gray old house to which she pointed as they fell, and then she spoke:

"The widow's child is unfriended. As surely as the Saviour brought the son of a widow from
death to life, for her tears and cries, so surely will God and His angels watch over my Nest,
and avenge her cruel wrongs." She turned away, weeping, and wringing her hands.

Edward went in-doors; he had no more desire to reckon his stores; he sat by the fire, looking
gloomily at the red ashes. He might have been there half an hour or more, when some one knocked
at the door. He would not speak. He wanted no one's company. Another knock, sharp and loud.
He did not speak. Then the visitor opened the door; and, to his surprise--almost to his affright--Eleanor
Gwynn came in.

"I knew you were here. I knew you could not go out into the clear, holy night, as if nothing
had happened. Oh! did I curse you? If I did, I beg you to forgive me; and I will try and ask
the Almighty to bless you, if you will but have a little mercy--a very little. It will kill
my Nest if she knows the truth now--she is so very weak. Why, she can not feed herself, she
is so low and feeble. You would not wish to kill her, I think, Edward!" She looked at him as
if expecting an answer; but he did not speak. She went down on her knees on the flags by him.

"You will give me a little time, Edward, to get her strong, won't you, now? I ask it on my
bended knees! Perhaps, if I promise never to curse you again, you will come sometimes to see
her, till she is well enough to know how all is over, and her heart's hopes crushed. Only say
you'll come for a month, or so, as if you still loved her--the poor cripple--forlorn of the
world. I'll get her strong, and not tax you long." Her tears fell too fast for her to go on.

"Get up, Mrs. Gwynn," Edward said. "Don't kneel to me. I have no objection to come and see
Nest, now and then, so that all is clear between you and me. Poor thing! I'm sorry, as it happens,
she's so taken up with the thought of me."

"It was likely, was not it? and you to have been her husband before this time, if--Oh, miserable
me! to let my child go and dim her bright life! But you'll forgive me, and come sometimes,
just for a little quarter of an hour, once or twice a week. Perhaps she'll be asleep sometimes
when you call, and then, you know, you need not come in. If she were not so ill, I'd never
ask you."

So low and humble was the poor widow brought, through her exceeding love for her daughter.

CHAPTER II.

Nest revived during the warm summer weather. Edward came to see her, and staid the allotted
quarter of an hour; but he dared not look her in the face. She was indeed a cripple: one leg
was much shorter than the other, and she halted on a crutch. Her face, formerly so brilliant
in color, was wan and pale with suffering: the bright roses were gone, never to return. Her
large eyes were sunk deep down in their hollow, cavernous sockets: but the light was in them
still, when Edward came. Her mother dreaded her returning strength--dreaded, yet desired it;
for the heavy burden of her secret was most oppressive at times, and she thought Edward was
beginning to weary of his enforced attentions. One October evening she told her the truth.
She even compelled her rebellious heart to take the cold, reasoning side of the question; and
she told her child that her disabled frame was a disqualification for ever becoming a farmer's
wife. She spoke hardly, because her inner agony and sympathy was such, she dared not trust
herself to express the feelings that were rending her. But Nest turned away from cold reason;
she revolted from her mother; she revolted from the world. She bound her sorrow tight up in
her breast, to corrode and fester there.

Night after night, her mother heard her cries and moans--more pitiful, by far, than those wrung
from her by bodily pain a year before; and, night after night, if her mother spoke to soothe,
she proudly denied the existence of any pain but what was physical, and consequent upon her
accident.

"If she would but open her sore heart to me--to me, her mother," Eleanor wailed forth in prayer
to God, "I would be content. Once it was enough to have my Nest all my own. Then came love,
and I knew it would never be as before; and then I thought the grief I felt, when Edward spoke
to me, was as sharp a sorrow as could be; but this present grief, Oh Lord, my God, is worst
of all; and Thou only, Thou canst help!"

When Nest grew as strong as she was ever likely to be on earth, she was anxious to have as
much labor as she could bear. She would not allow her mother to spare her any thing. Hard work--bodily
fatigue--she seemed to crave. She was glad when she was stunned by exhaustion into a dull insensibility
of feeling. She was almost fierce when her mother, in those first months of convalescence,
performed the household tasks which had formerly been hers; but she shrank from going out of
doors. Her mother thought that she was unwilling to expose her changed appearance to the neighbors'
remarks; but Nest was not afraid of that: she was afraid of their pity, as being one deserted
and cast off. If Eleanor gave way before her daughter's imperiousness, and sat by while Nest
"tore" about her work with the vehemence of a bitter heart, Eleanor could have cried, but she
durst not; tears, or any mark of commiseration, irritated the crippled girl so much, she even
drew away from caresses. Every thing was to go on as it had been before she had known Edward;
and so it did, outwardly; but they trod carefully, as if the ground on which they moved was
hollow--deceptive. There was no more careless ease; every word was guarded, and every action
planned. It was a dreary life to both. Once, Eleanor brought in a little baby, a neighbor's
child, to try and tempt Nest out of herself, by her old love of children. Nest's pale face
flushed as she saw the innocent child in her mother's arms; and, for a moment, she made as
if she would have taken it; but then, she turned away, and hid her face behind her apron, and
murmured, "I shall never have a child to lie in my breast, and call me mother!" In a minute
she arose, with compressed and tightened lips, and went about her household works, without
her noticing the cooing baby again, till Mrs. Gwynn, heart-sick at the failure of her little
plan, took it back to its parents.

One day the news ran through Pen-Morfa that Edward Williams was about to be married. Eleanor
had long expected this intelligence. It came upon her like no new thing; but it was the filling-up
of her cup of woe. She could not tell Nest. She sat listlessly in the house, and dreaded that
each neighbor who came in would speak about the village news. At last, some one did. Nest looked
round from her employment, and talked of the event with a kind of cheerful curiosity as to
the particulars, which made her informant go away, and tell others that Nest had quite left
off caring for Edward Williams. But when the door was shut, and Eleanor and she were left alone,
Nest came and stood before her weeping mother like a stern accuser.

"Mother, why did not you let me die? Why did you keep me alive for this?" Eleanor could not
speak, but she put her arms out toward her girl. Nest turned away, and Eleanor cried aloud
in her soreness of spirit. Nest came again.

"Mother, I was wrong. You did your best. I don't know how it is I am so hard and cold. I wish
I had died when I was a girl, and had a feeling heart."

"Don't speak so, my child. God has afflicted you sore, and your hardness of heart is but for
a time. Wait a little. Don't reproach yourself, my poor Nest. I understand your ways. I don't
mind them, love. The feeling heart will come back to you in time. Any ways, don't think you're
grieving me, because, love, that may sting you when I'm gone; and I'm not grieved, my darling.
Most times we're very cheerful, I think."

After this, mother and child were drawn more together. But Eleanor had received her death from
these sorrowful, hurrying events. She did not conceal the truth from herself; nor did she pray
to live, as some months ago she had done, for her child's sake; she had found out that she
had no power to console the poor wounded heart. It seemed to her as if her prayers had been
of no avail; and then she blamed herself for this thought.

There are many Methodist preachers in this part of Wales. There was a certain old man, named
David Hughes, who was held in peculiar reverence because he had known the great John Wesley.
He had been captain of a Caernarvon slate-vessel; he had traded in the Mediterranean, and had
seen strange sights. In those early days (to use his own expression) he had lived without God
in the world; but he went to mock John Wesley, and was converted to the white-haired patriarch,
and remained to pray. Afterward he became one of the earnest, self-denying, much-abused band
of itinerant preachers, who went forth under Wesley's direction to spread abroad a more earnest
and practical spirit of religion. His rambles and travels were of use to him. They extended
his knowledge of the circumstances in which men are sometimes placed, and enlarged his sympathy
with the tried and tempted. His sympathy, combined with the thoughtful experience of four-score
years, made him cognizant of many of the strange secrets of humanity; and when younger preachers
upbraided the hard hearts they met with, and despaired of the sinners, he "suffered long and
was kind."

When Eleanor Gwynn lay low on her death-bed, David Hughes came to Pen-Morfa. He knew her history,
and sought her out. To him she imparted the feelings I have described.

"I have lost my faith, David. The tempter has come, and I have yielded. I doubt if my prayers
have been heard. Day and night have I prayed that I might comfort my child in her great sorrow;
but God has not heard me. She has turned away from me, and refused my poor love. I wish to
die now; but I have lost my faith, and have no more pleasure in the thought of going to God.
What must I do, David?"

She hung upon his answer; and it was long in coming.

"I am weary of earth," said she, mournfully, "and can I find rest in death even, leaving my
child desolate and broken-hearted?"

"Eleanor," said David, "where you go, all things will be made clear; and you will learn to
thank God for the end of what now seems grievous and heavy to be borne. Do you think your agony
has been greater than the awful agony in the Garden--or your prayers more earnest than that
which He prayed in that hour when the great drops of blood ran down his face like sweat? We
know that God heard Him, although no answer came to Him through the dread silence of that night.
God's times are not our times. I have lived eighty-and-one years, and never yet have I known
an earnest prayer fall to the ground unheeded. In an unknown way, and when no one looked for
it, may be, the answer came; a fuller, more satisfying answer than heart could conceive of,
although it might be different to what was expected. Sister, you are going where in His light
you will see light; you will learn there that in very faithfulness He has afflicted you!"

"Go on--you strengthen me," said she.

After David Hughes left that day, Eleanor was calm as one already dead, and past mortal strife.
Nest was awed by the change. No more passionate weeping--no more sorrow in the voice; though
it was low and weak, it sounded with a sweet composure. Her last look was a smile; her last
word a blessing.

Nest, tearless, streeked the poor worn body. She laid a plate with salt upon it on the breast,
and lighted candles for the head and feet. It was an old Welsh custom; but when David Hughes
came in, the sight carried him back to the time when he had seen the chapels in some old Catholic
cathedral. Nest sat gazing on the dead with dry, hot eyes.

"She is dead," said David, solemnly, "she died in Christ. Let us bless God, my child. He giveth
and He taketh away!"

"She is dead," said Nest, "my mother is dead. No one loves me now."

She spoke as if she were thinking aloud, for she did not look at David, or ask him to be seated.

"No one loves you now? No human creature, you mean. You are not yet fit to be spoken to concerning
God's infinite love. I, like you, will speak of love for human creatures. I tell you, if no
one loves you, it is time for you to begin to love." He spoke almost severely (if David Hughes
ever did); for, to tell the truth, he was repelled by her hard rejection of her mother's tenderness,
about which the neighbors had told him.

"Begin to love!" said she, her eyes flashing. "Have I not loved? Old man, you are dim and worn-out.
You do not remember what love is." She spoke with a scornful kind of pitying endurance. "I
will tell you how I have loved, by telling you the change it has wrought in me. I was once
the beautiful Nest Gwynn; I am now a cripple, a poor, wan-faced cripple, old before my time.
That is a change; at least people think so." She paused, and then spoke lower. "I tell you,
David Hughes, that outward change is as nothing compared to the change in my nature caused
by the love I have felt--and have had rejected. I was gentle once, and if you spoke a tender
word, my heart came toward you as natural as a little child goes to its mammy. I never spoke
roughly, even to the dumb creatures, for I had a kind feeling for all. Of late (since I loved,
old man), I have been cruel in my thoughts to every one. I have turned away from tenderness
with bitter indifference. Listen!" she spoke in a hoarse whisper. "I will own it. I have spoken
hardly to her," pointing toward the corpse. "Her who was ever patient, and full of love for
me. She did not know," she muttered, "she is gone to the grave without knowing how I loved
her--I had such strange, mad, stubborn pride in me."

"Come back, mother! Come back," said she, crying wildly to the still, solemn corpse; "come
back as a spirit or a ghost--only come back, that I may tell you how I have loved you."

But the dead never come back.

The passionate adjuration ended in tears--the first she had shed. When they ceased, or were
absorbed into long quivering sobs, David knelt down. Nest did not kneel, but bowed her head.
He prayed, while his own tears fell fast. He rose up. They were both calm.

"Nest," said he, "your love has been the love of youth; passionate, wild, natural to youth.
Henceforward you must love like Christ; without thought of self, or wish for return. You must
take the sick and the weary to your heart and love them. That love will lift you up above the
storms of the world into God's own peace. The very vehemence of your nature proves that you
are capable of this. I do not pity you. You do not require pity. You are powerful enough to
trample down your own sorrows into a blessing for others; and to others you will be a blessing;
I see it before you; I see in it the answer to your mother's prayer."

The old man's dim eyes glittered as if they saw a vision; the fire-light sprang up and glinted
on his long white hair. Nest was awed as if she saw a prophet, and a prophet he was to her.

When next David Hughes came to Pen-Morfa, he asked about Nest Gwynn, with a hovering doubt
as to the answer. The inn-folk told him she was living still in the cottage, which was now her own.

"But would you believe it, David," said Mrs. Thomas, "she has gone and taken Mary Williams
to live with her? You remember Mary Williams, I'm sure."

No! David Hughes remembered no Mary Williams at Pen-Morfa.

"You must have seen her, for I know you've called at Thomas Griffiths's where the parish boarded
her?"

"You don't mean the half-witted woman--the poor crazy creature!"

"But I do!" said Mrs. Thomas.

"I have seen her sure enough, but I never thought of learning her name. And Nest Gwynn has
taken her to live with her."

"Yes! I thought I should surprise you. She might have had many a decent girl for companion.
My own niece, her that is an orphan, would have gone and been thankful. Besides, Mary Williams
is a regular savage at times; John Griffiths says there were days when he used to beat her
till she howled again, and yet she would not do as he told her. Nay, once, he says, if he had
not seen her eyes glare like a wild beast, from under the shadow of the table where she had
taken shelter, and got pretty quickly out of her way, she would have flown upon him and throttled
him. He gave Nest fair warning of what she must expect, and he thinks some day she will be
found murdered."

David Hughes thought awhile. "How came Nest to take her to live with her?" asked he.

"Well! Folk say John Griffiths did not give her enough to eat. Half-wits, they tell me, take
more to feed them than others, and Eleanor Gwynn had given her oat-cake and porridge a time
or two, and most likely spoken kindly to her (you know Eleanor spoke kind to all), so some
months ago, when John Griffiths had been beating her, and keeping her without food to try and
tame her, she ran away and came to Nest's cottage in the dead of night, all shivering and starved,
for she did not know Eleanor was dead, and thought to meet with kindness from her. I've no
doubt and Nest remembered how her mother used to feed and comfort the poor idiot, and made
her some gruel, and wrapped her up by the fire. And in the morning when John Griffiths came
in search of Mary, he found her with Nest, and Mary wailed so piteously at the sight of him,
that Nest went to the parish officers and offered to take her to board with her for the same
money they gave to him. John says he was right glad to be off his bargain."

David Hughes knew there was a kind of remorse which sought relief in the performance of the
most difficult and repugnant tasks. He thought he could understand how, in her bitter repentance
for her conduct toward her mother, Nest had taken in the first helpless creature that came
seeking shelter in her name. It was not what he would have chosen, but he knew it was God that
had sent the poor wandering idiot there.

He went to see Nest the next morning. As he drew near the cottage--it was summer time, and
the doors and windows were all open--he heard an angry, passionate kind of sound that was scarcely
human. That sound prevented his approach from being heard; and standing at the threshold, he
saw poor Mary Williams pacing backward and forward in some wild mood. Nest, cripple as she
was, was walking with her, speaking low, soothing words, till the pace was slackened, and time
and breathing was given to put her arm around the crazy woman's neck, and soothe her by this
tender caress into the quiet luxury of tears; tears which give the hot brain relief. Then David
Hughes came in. His first words, as he took off his hat, standing on the lintel, were--"The
peace of God be upon this house." Neither he nor Nest recurred to the past; though solemn recollections
filled their minds. Before he went, all three knelt and prayed; for, as Nest told him, some
mysterious influence of peace came over the poor half-wit's mind when she heard the holy words
of prayer; and often when she felt a paroxysm coming on, she would kneel and repeat a homily
rapidly over, as if it were a charm to scare away the Demon in possession; sometimes, indeed,
the control over herself requisite for this effort was enough to dispel the fluttering burst.
When David rose up to go, he drew Nest to the door.

"You are not afraid, my child?" asked he.

"No," she replied. "She is often very good and quiet. When she is not, I can bear it."

"I shall see your face on earth no more;" said he. "God bless you!" He went on his way. Not
many weeks after, David Hughes was borne to his grave.

The doors of Nest's heart were opened--opened wide by the love she grew to feel for crazy Mary,
so helpless, so friendless, so dependent upon her. Mary loved her back again, as a dumb animal
loves its blind master. It was happiness enough to be near her. In general she was only too
glad to do what she was bidden by Nest. But there were times when Mary was overpowered by the
glooms and fancies of her poor disordered brain. Fearful times! No one knew how fearful. On
those days, Nest warned the little children who loved to come and play around her, that they
must not visit the house. The signal was a piece of white linen hung out of a side window.
On those days the sorrowful and sick waited in vain for the sound of Nest's lame approach.
But what she had to endure was only known to God, for she never complained. If she had given
up the charge of Mary, or if the neighbors had risen, out of love and care for her life, to
compel such a step, she knew not what hard curses and blows--what starvation and misery, would
await the poor creature.

She told of Mary's docility, and her affection, and her innocent little sayings; but she never
told the details of the occasional days of wild disorder, and driving insanity.

Nest grew old before her time, in consequence of her accident. She knew that she was as old
at fifty as many are at seventy. She knew it partly by the vividness with which the remembrance
of the days of her youth came back to her mind, while the events of yesterday were dim and
forgotten. She dreamt of her girlhood and youth. In sleep she was once more the beautiful Nest
Gwynn, the admired of all beholders, the light-hearted girl, beloved by her mother. Little
circumstances connected with those early days, forgotten since the very time when they occurred,
came back to her mind in her waking hours. She had a sear on the palm of her left hand, occasioned
by the fall of a branch of a tree, when she was a child; it had not pained her since the first
two days after the accident; but now it began to hurt her slightly; and clear in her ears was
the crackling sound of the treacherous, rending wood; distinct before her rose the presence
of her mother tenderly binding up the wound. With these remembrances came a longing desire
to see the beautiful fatal well, once more before her death. She had never gone so far since
the day when, by her fall there, she lost love, and hope, and her bright, glad youth. She yearned
to look upon its waters once again. This desire waxed as her life waned. She told it to poor
crazy Mary.

"Mary!" said she, "I want to go to the Rock Well. If you will help me, I can manage it. There
used to be many a stone in the Dol Mawr on which I could sit and rest. We will go to-morrow
morning before folks are astir."

Mary answered briskly, "Up, up! To the Rock Well! Mary will go. Mary will go." All day long
she kept muttering to herself, "Mary will go."

Nest had the happiest dream that night. Her mother stood beside her--not in the flesh, but
in the bright glory of a blessed spirit. And Nest was no longer young--neither was she old--"they
reckon not by days, nor years where she was gone to dwell;" and her mother stretched out her
arms to her with a calm, glad look of welcome. She awoke; the woodlark was singing in the near
copse--the little birds were astir, and rustling in their leafy nests. Nest arose, and called
Mary. The two set out through the quiet lane. They went along slowly and silently. With many
a pause they crossed the broad Dol Mawr; and carefully descended the sloping stones, on which
no trace remained of the hundreds of feet that had passed over them since Nest was last there.
The clear water sparkled and quivered in the early sun-light, the shadows of the birch-leaves
were stirred on the ground; the ferns--Nest could have believed that they were the very same
ferns which she had seen thirty years before, hung wet and dripping where the water overflowed--a
thrush chanted matins from a holly bush near--and the running stream made a low, soft, sweet
accompaniment. All was the same; Nature was as fresh and young as ever. It might have been
yesterday that Edward Williams had overtaken her, and told her his love--the thought of his
words--his handsome looks--(he was a gray, hard-featured man by this time), and then she recalled
the fatal wintry morning when joy and youth had fled; and as she remembered that faintness
of pain, a new, a real faintness--no echo of the memory--came over her. She leant her back
against a rock, without a moan or sigh, and died! She found immortality by the well side, instead
of her fragile, perishing youth. She was so calm and placid that Mary (who had been dipping
her fingers in the well, to see the waters drop off in the gleaming sun-light), thought she
was asleep, and for some time continued her amusement in silence. At last she turned, and said,

"Mary is tired. Mary wants to go home." Nest did not speak, though the idiot repeated her plaintive
words. She stood and looked till a strange terror came over her--a terror too mysterious to
be borne.

"Mistress, wake! Mistress, wake!" she said, wildly, shaking the form.

But Nest did not awake. And the first person who came to the well that morning found crazy
Mary sitting, awe-struck, by the poor dead Nest. They had to get the poor creature away by
force, before they could remove the body.

Mary is in Trê-Madoc workhouse; they treat her pretty kindly, and in general she is good and
tractable. Occasionally the old paroxysms come on; and for a time she is unmanageable. But
some one thought of speaking to her about Nest. She stood arrested at the name; and since then,
it is astonishing to see what efforts she makes to curb her insanity; and when the dread time
is past, she creeps up to the matron, and says, "Mary has tried to be good. Will God let her
go to Nest now?"

THE YOUNG MAN'S COUNSELOR.

GENERAL CONDUCT.

Move with the multitude in the common walks of life, and you will be unnoticed in the throng;
but break from them, pursue a different path, and every eye, perhaps with reproach, will be
turned toward you. What is the rule to be observed in general conduct? Conform to every innocent
custom as our social nature requires, but refuse compliance with whatever is inconsistent with
propriety, decency, and the moral duties; and dare to be singular in honor and virtue.

In conversation, truth does not require you to utter all your thoughts, yet it forbids you
to speak in opposition to them. To open the mind to unreserved communication, is imbecility;
to cover it with a vail, to dissever its internal workings from its external manifestations,
is dissimulation and falsehood. The concordance of the thoughts, words, and deeds, is the essence
of truth, and the ornament of character.

A man who has an opportunity to ruin a rival, with whom he is at enmity, without public dishonor,
and yet generously forbears, nay, converts the opportunity into a disinterested benefit, evinces
a noble instance of virtuous magnanimity. He conquers his own enmity, the most glorious of
all conquests, and overcomes the enmity of a rival by the most heroic and praiseworthy mode
of retaliation.

As to an evil report of a neighbor, the opinion of the frivolous is lightly regarded, the calumny
of the known slanderer is discredited by all who venerate truth, and the character of the known
liar is a sufficient antidote to falsehood. A respectable man, in his good name, offers a guarantee
for his veracity; and, impressed with the benevolent affections and the love of justice, he
is scrupulous to believe an evil report, and still more so to repeat it.

As a rill from a fountain increases as it flows, rises into a stream, swells into a river,
so symbolically are the origin and course of a good name. At first, its beginning is small:
it takes its rise from home, its natural source, extends to the neighborhood, stretches through
the community, and finally takes a range proportioned to the qualities by which it is supported--its
talents, virtue, and usefulness, the surest basis of an honorable reputation.

The relatives and kindred of a young man, by a natural process, communicate his amiable and
opening character to a wider circle than that of home. His associates and friends extend the
circle, and thus it widens till its circumference embraces a portion more or less of society,
and his character places him in the class of respectable men. With good principles and conduct,
neither envy nor malice can intercept the result of this progressive series; without good principles
and conduct, no art or dissimulation can realize the noblest aim of a social being--a well-founded
reputation.

A person commits an error, and he has sufficient address to conceal it, or sufficient ingenuity
to palliate it, but he does neither; instead of availing himself of concealment and palliation,
with the candor of a great mind, he confesses his error, and makes all the apology or atonement
which the occasion requires. None has a title to true honor but he who can say with moral elevation,
when truth demands the acknowledgment, I have done wrong.

The events of life are not fortunate or calamitous so much in themselves, as they are in their
effect on our feelings. An event which is met by one with equanimity or indifference, will
fret another with vexation, or overwhelm him with sorrow. Misfortunes encountered with a composed
and firm resolution, almost cease to be evils; it is, therefore, less our wisdom to endeavor
to control external events, than to regulate the habitual temper of our minds to endurance
and resignation.

