"My son," he at length said, "I knew the father of the Princess Irene, and was his sympathizer.
I led the whole Brotherhood in the final demand for his liberation from prison. When he was
delivered, I rejoiced with a satisfied soul, and took credit for a large part of the good done
him and his. It is not to magnify myself, or unduly publish my influence that the occurrence
is recalled, but to show you how unnatural it would be were I unfriendly to his only child.
So if now I say anything in the least doubtful of her, set it down to conscience, and a sense
of duty to you whom I have received into the fraternity as one sent me specially by God....
The life the Princess leads and her manners are outside the sanctions of society. There is
no positive wrong in a woman of her degree going about in public places unveiled, and it must
be admitted she does it most modestly; yet the example is pernicious in its effect upon women
who are without the high qualities which distinguish her; at the same time the habit, even
as she illustrates it, wears an appearance of defiant boldness, making her a subject of indelicate
remark--making her, in brief, a topic for discussion. The objection, I grant, is light, being
at worst an offence against taste and custom; much more serious is her persistence in keeping
up the establishment at Therapia. A husband might furnish her an excuse; but the Turk is too
near a neighbor--or rather she, a single woman widely renowned for beauty, is too tempting
to the brutalized unbelievers infesting the other shore of the Bosphorus. Feminine timidity
is always becoming; especially is it so when honor is more concerned than life or liberty.
Unmarried and unprotected, her place is in a holy house on the Islands, or here in the city,
where, aside from personal safety, she can have the benefit of holy offices. Now rumor is free
to accuse her of this and that, which charity in multitude and without stint is an insufficient
mantle to save her from. They say she prefers guilty freedom to marriage; but no one, himself
of account, believes it--the constitution of her household forbids the taint. They say she
avails herself of seclusion to indulge uncanonized worship. In plain terms, my son, it is said
she is a heretic."

Sergius started and threw up his hands. Not that he was surprised at the charge, for the Princess
herself had repeatedly admitted it was in the air against her; but coming from the venerated
chief of his Brotherhood, the statement, though a hearsay, sounded so dreadfully he was altogether
unprepared for it. Knowing the consequences of heresy, he was also alarmed for her, and came
near betraying himself. How interesting it would be to learn precisely and from the excellent
authority before him, in what the heresy of the Princess consisted. If there was criminality
in her faith, what was to be said of his own?

"Father," he remarked, calmly as possible, "I mind not the other sayings, the reports which
go to the Princess' honor--they are the tarnishments which malice is always blowing on things
white because they are white--but if it be not too trying to your strength, tell me more. Wherein
is she a heretic?"

Again, the gaunt fingers of the Hegumen worked nervously, while his eyes averted themselves.

"How can I satisfy your laudable question, my son, and be brief?" and with the words he brought
his look back, resting it on the young man's face. "Give attention, however, and I will try....
I take it you know the Creed is the test of orthodoxy, and"--he paused and searched the eyes
above his wistfully--"and that it has your unfaltering belief. You know its history, I am sure--at
least you know it had issue from the Council of Nicaea over which Constantine, the greatest
of ail Emperors, condescended to preside in person. Never was proceeding more perfect; its
perfection proved the Divine Mind in its composition; yet, sad to say, the centuries since
the august Council have been fruitful of disputes more or less related to those blessed canons,
and sadder still, some of the disputes continue to this day. Would to God there was no more
to be said of them!"

The good man covered his face with his hands, like one who would shut out a disagreeable sight.
"But it is well to inform you, my son, of the questions whose agitation has at last brought
the Church down till only Heaven can save it from rupture and ruin. Oh, that I should live
to make the acknowledgment--I who in my youth thought it founded on a rock eternal as Nature
itself!... A plain presentation of the subject in contention may help you to a more lively
understanding of the gravity and untimeliness of the Princess' departure.... First, let me
ask if you know our parties by name. Verily I came near calling them factions, and that I would
not willingly, since it is an opprobrious term, resort to which would be denunciatory of myself--I
being one of them."

"I have heard of a Roman party and of a Greek party; but further, I am so recently come to
Constantinople, it would be safer did I take information of you."

"A prudent answer, by our most excellent and holy patron!" exclaimed the Hegumen, his countenance
relaxing into the semblance of a smile. "Be always as wise, and the St. James' will bless themselves
that thou wert brought to us.... Attend now. The parties are Greek and Roman; though most frequently
its enemies speak of the latter as azymites, which you will understand is but a nickname. I
am a Romanist; the Brotherhood is all Roman; and we mind not when Scholarius, and his arch-supporter,
Duke Notaras, howl azymite at us. A disputant never takes to contemptuous speeches except when
he is worsted in the argument."

The moderation of the Hegumen had been thus far singularly becoming and impressive; now a fierce
light gleamed in his eyes, and he cried, with a spasmodic clutch of the hands: "We are not
of the forsworn! The curse of the perjured is not on our souls!"

The intensity of his superior astonished Sergius; yet he was shrewd enough to see and appreciate
the disclosures of the outburst; and from that moment he was possessed of a feeling that the
quarrel between the parties was hopelessly past settlement. If the man before him, worn with
years, and actually laboring for the breath of life, could be so moved by contempt for the
enemy, what of his co-partisans? Age is ordinarily a tamer of the passions. Here was an instance
in which much contention long continued had counteracted the benign effect. As a teacher and
example, how unlike this Hegumen was to Hilarion. The young man's heart warmed with a sudden
yearning for the exile of the dear old Lavra whose unfailing sweetness of soul could keep the
frigid wilderness upon the White Lake in summer purple the year round. Never did love of man
for man look so lovely; never did it seem so comprehensive and all sufficient! The nearest
passion opposition could excite in that pure and chastened nature was pity. But here! Quick
as the reflection came, it was shut out. There was more to be learned. God help the heretic
in the hands of this judge at this time! And with the mental exclamation Sergius waited, his
interest in the definition of heresy sharpened by personal concern.

"There are five questions dividing the two parties," the Hegumen continued, when the paroxysm
of hate was passed. "Listen and I will give them to you in naked form, trusting time for an
opportunity to deal with them at large.... First then the Procession of the Holy Ghost. That
is, does the Holy Ghost proceed from the Son, or from the Father and the Son? The Greeks say
from the Son; the Romans say the Father and the Son being One, the Procession must needs be
from both of them conjunctively.... Next the Nicene Creed, as originally published, did undoubtedly
make the Holy Ghost proceed from the Father alone. The intent was to defend the unity of the
Godhead. Subsequently the Latins, designing to cast the assertion of the identity of the Spirit
of the Father and the Spirit of the Son in a form which they thought more explicit, planted
in the body of the Creed the word filioque, meaning from the Son. This the Greeks declare an
unwarranted addition. The Latins, on their part, deny it an addition in any proper sense; they
say it is but an explanation of the principle proclaimed, and in justification trace the usage
from the Fathers, Greek and Latin, and from Councils subsequent to the Nicene.... When we consider
to what depths of wrangle the two themes have carried the children of God who should be brethren
united in love, knowing rivalry only in zeal for the welfare of the Church, that other subjects
should creep in to help widen the already dangerous breach has an appearance like a judgment
of God; yet it would be dealing unfairly with you, my son, to deny the pendency of three others
in particular. Of these we have first, Shall the bread in the Eucharist be leavened or unleavened?
About six hundred years ago the Latins began the use of unleavened bread. The Greeks protested
against the innovation, and through the centuries arguments have been bandied to and fro in
good-natured freedom; but lately, within fifty years, the debate has degenerated into quarrel,
and now--ah, in what terms suitable to a God-fearing servant can I speak of the temper signalizing
the discussion now? Let it pass, let it pass!... We have next a schism respecting Purgatory.
The Greeks deny the existence of such a state, saying there are but two places awaiting the
soul after death--Heaven and Hell."

Again the Hegumen paused, arrested, as it were, by a return of vindictive passion.

"Oh, the schismatics!" he exclaimed. "Not to see in the Latin idea of a third place a mercy
of God unto them especially! If only the righteous are admitted to the All Holy Father immediately
upon the final separation of body and spirit; if there is no intermediate state for the purgation
of such of the baptized as die sodden in their sins, what shall become of them?"

Sergius shuddered, but held his peace.

"Yet another point," the superior continued, ere the ruffle in his voice subsided--"another
of which the wranglers have made the most; for as you know, my son, the Greeks, thinking themselves
teachers of all things intellectual, philosophy, science, poetry, art, and especially religion,
and that at a period when the Latins were in the nakedness of barbarism, are filled with pride,
like empty bottles with air; and because in the light of history their pride is not unreasonable,
they drop the more readily into the designs of the conspirators against the Unity of the Church--I
speak now of the Primacy. As if power and final judgment were things for distribution amongst
a number of equals! As if one body were better of a hundred heads! Who does not know that two
wills equally authorized mean the absence of all will! Of the foundations of God Chaos alone
is unorganized; and to such likeness Scholarius would reduce Christendom! God forbid! Say so,
my son--let me hear you repeat it after me--God forbid:"

With an unction scarcely less fervid than his chief's, Sergius echoed the exclamation; whereupon
the elder looked at him, and said, with a flush on his face, "I fear I have given rein too
freely to disgust and abhorrence. Passion is never becoming in old men. Lest you misjudge me,
my son, I shall take one further step in explanation; it will be for you to then justify or
condemn the feeling you have witnessed in me. A deeper wound to conscience, a grosser provocation
to the divine vengeance, a perfidy more impious and inexcusable you shall never overtake in
this life, though you walk in it thrice the years of Noah.... There have been repeated attempts
to settle the doctrinal differences to which I have referred. A little more than a hundred
years ago--it was in the reign of Andronicus III.--one Barlaam, a Hegumen, like myself, was
sent to Italy by the Emperor with a proposal of union; but Benedict the Pope resolutely refused
to entertain the proposition, for the reason that it did not contemplate a final arrangement
of the question at issue between the Churches. Was he not right?"

Sergius assented.

"In 1369, John V. Palaeologus, under heavy pressure of the Turks, renewed overtures of reconciliation,
and to effectuate his purpose, he even became a Catholic. Then John VI., the late Emperor,
more necessitous than his predecessor, submitted such a presentation to the Papal court that
Nicolos of Cusa was despatched to Constantinople to study and report upon the possibilities
of a doctrinal settlement and union. In November, 1437, the Emperor, accompanied by Joseph,
the Patriarch, Besserion, Archbishop of Nicaea, and deputies empowered to represent the other
Patriarchs, together with a train of learned assistants and secretaries, seven hundred in all,
set out for Italy in response to the invitation of Eugenius IV, the Pope. Landing at Venice,
the Basileus was escorted to Ferrara, where Eugenius received him with suitable pomp. The Council
of Basle, having been adjourned to Ferrara for the better accommodation of the imperial guest,
was opened there in April, 1438. But the plague broke out, and the sessions were transferred
to Florence where the Council sat for three years. Dost thou follow me, my son?"

"With all my mind, Father, and thankful for thy painstaking."

"Nay, good Sergius, thy attention more than repays me.... Observe now the essentials of all
the dogmatic questions I named to you as to-day serving the conspiracy against the Unity of
our beloved Church were settled and accepted at the Council of Florence. 349.] In Italy, 1439--mark
you, son Sergius, but a trifle over eleven years ago--the members of the Council from the East
and West, the Greeks with the Latins--Emperor, Patriarchs, Metropolitans, Deacons, and lesser
dignitaries of whatever title--signed a Decree of Union which we call the Hepnoticon, and into
which the above acceptances had been incorporated. I said all signed the decree--there were
two who did not, Mark of Ephesus and the Bishop Stauropolis. The Patriarch of Constantinople,
Joseph, died during the Council; yet the signatures of his colleagues collectively and of the
Emperor perfected the Decree as to Constantinople. What sayest thou, my son? As a student of
holy canons, what sayest thou?"

"I am but a student," Sergius replied; "still to my imperfect perception the Unity of the Church
was certainly accomplished."

"In law, yes," said the Hegumen, with difficulty rising to a sitting posture--"yes, but it
remained to make the accomplishment binding on the consciences of the signatories. Hear now
what was done. A form of oath was draughted invoking the most awful maledictions on the parties
who should violate the decree, and it was sworn to."

"Sworn to?"

"Ay, son Sergius--sworn to by each and all of those attendant upon the Council--from Basileus
down to the humblest catechumen inclusive, they took the oath, and by the taking bound their
consciences under penalty of the eternal wrath of God. I spoke of certain ones forsworn, did
I not?"

Sergius bowed.

"And worse--I spoke of some whose souls were enduring the curse of the perjured. That was extreme--it
was passion--I saw thee shudder at it, and I did not blame thee. Hear me now, and thou wilt
not blame me.... They came home, the Basileus and his seven hundred followers. Scarcely were
they disembarked before they were called to account. The city, assembled on the quay, demanded
of them: 'What have you done with us? What of our Faith? Have you brought us the victory?'
The Emperor hurried to his palace; the prelates hung their heads, and trembling and in fear
answered: 'We have sold our Faith--we have betrayed the pure sacrifice--we have become Azymites.'
[Footnote: Hist. de l'eglise (L'Abbe Rohrbacher), 3d ed. Vol. 22. 30. MICHEL DUCAS.] Thus spake
Bessarion; thus Balsamon, Archdeacon and Guardian of the Archives; thus Gemiste of Lacedaemon;
thus Antoine of Heraclius; thus spake they all, the high and the low alike, even George Scholarius,
whom thou didst see marching last night first penitent of the Vigils. 'Why did you sign the
Decree?' And they answered, 'We were afraid of the Franks.' Perjury to impiety--cowardice to
perjury!... And now, son Sergius, it is said--all said--with one exception. Some of the Metropolitans,
when they were summoned to sign the Decree, demurred, 'Without you pay us to our satisfaction
we shall not sign.' The silver was counted down to them. Nay, son, look not so incredulous--I
was there--I speak of what I saw. What could be expected other than that the venals would repudiate
everything? And so they did, all save Metrophanes, the Syncelle, and Gregory, by grace of God
the present Patriarch. If I speak with heat, dost thou blame me? If I called the recusants
forsworn and perjured, thinkest thou the pure in Heaven charged my soul with a sin? Answer
as thou lovest the right?"

"My Father," Sergius replied, "the denunciation of impiety cannot be sinful, else I have to
unlearn all I have ever been taught; and being the chief Shepherd of an honorable Brotherhood,
is it not thy duty to cry out at every appearance of wrong? That His Serenity, the Patriarch,
receives thy acquittal and is notably an exception to a recusancy so universal, is comforting
to me; to have to cast him out of my admiration would be grievous. But pardon me, if from fear
thou wilt overlook it, I again ask thee to speak further of the heresy of the Princess Irene."

Sergius, besides standing with his back to the door of the cell, was listening to the Hegumen
with an absorption of sense so entire that he was unaware of the quiet entrance of a third
party, who halted after a step or two but within easy hearing.

"The request is timely--most timely," the Hegumen replied, without regarding the presence of
the newcomer. "I had indeed almost forgotten the Princess.... With controversies such as I
have recounted raging in the Church, like wolves in a sheepfold, comes one with new doctrines
to increase the bewilderment of the flock, how is he to be met? This is what the Princess has
done, and is doing."

"Still, Father, you leave me in the dark."

The Hegumen faltered, but finally said: "Apart from her religious views and novel habits, the
Princess Irene is the noblest nature in Byzantium. Were we overtaken by some great calamity,
I should look for her to rise by personal sacrifice into heroism. In acknowledgment of my fatherly
interest in her, she has often entertained me at her palace, and spoken her mind with fearless
freedom, leaving me to think her pursued by presentiments of a fatality which is to try her
with terrible demands, and that she is already prepared to submit to them."

"Yes," said Sergius, with an emphatic gesture, "there are who live martyrs all their days,
reserving nothing for death but to bring them their crowns."

The manner of the utterance, and the thought compelled the Hegumen's notice.

"My son," he said, presently, "thou hast a preacher's power. I wish I foreknew thy future.
But I must haste or"--

"Nay, Father, permit me to help you recline again."

And with the words, Sergius helped the feeble body down.

"Thanks, my son," he received, in return, "I know thy soul is gentle."

After a rest the speech was resumed.

"Of the Princess--she is given to the Scriptures; in the reading, which else would be a praiseworthy
usage, she refuses light except it proceed from her own understanding. We are accustomed when
in doubt--thou knowest it to be so--to take the interpretations of the Fathers; but she insists
the Son of God knew what He meant better than any whose good intentions are lacking in the
inspirations of the Holy Ghost."

A gleam of pleasure flitted over the listener's countenance.

"So," the Hegumen continued, "she hath gone the length of fabricating a creed for herself,
and substituting it for that which is the foundation of the Church--I mean the Creed transmitted
to us from the Council of Nicaea."

"Is the substitute in writing, Father?"

"I have read it."

"Then thou canst tell me whence she drew it."

"From the Gospels word and word.... There now--I am too weak to enter into discussion--I can
only allude to effects."

"Forgive another request"--Sergius spoke hastily--"Have I thy permission, to look at what she
hath written?"

"Thou mayst try her with a request; but remember, my son"--the Hegumen accompanied the warning
with a menacious glance--"remember proselyting is the tangible overt act in heresy which the
Church cannot overlook.... To proceed. The Princess' doctrines are damnatory of the Nicene;
if allowed, they would convert the Church into a stumbling-block in the way of salvation. They
cannot be tolerated.... I can no more--the night was too much for me. Go, I pray, and order
wine and food. To-morrow--or when thou comest again--and delay not, for I love thee greatly--we
will return to the subject."

Sergius saw the dew gathering on the Hegumen's pallid forehead, and observed his failing voice.
He stooped, took the wan hand from the laboring breast, and kissed it; then turning about quickly
to go for the needed restoration, he found himself face to face with the young Greek whom he
rescued from Nilo in the encounter on the wall.

CHAPTER VIII

THE ACADEMY OF EPICURUS

"I would have a word with you," the Greek said, in a low tone, as Sergius was proceeding to
the door.

"But thy father is suffering, and I must make haste."

"I will accompany thee."

Sergius stopped while the young man went to the cot, removed his hat and knelt, saying, "Thy
blessing, father."

The Hegumen laid a hand on the petitioner's head.

"My son, I have not seen thee for many days," he said; "yet in hope that thou hast heard me,
and abandoned the associates who have been endangering thy soul and my good name, and because
I love thee--God knows how well--and remember thy mother, who lived illustrating every beatitude,
and died in grace, praying for thee, take thou my blessing."

With tears starting in his own eyes, Sergius doubted not the effect of the reproof upon the
son; and he pitied him, and even regretted remaining to witness the outburst of penitence and
grief he imagined forthcoming. The object of his sympathy took down the hand, kissed it in
a matter-of-fact way, arose, and said, carelessly: "This lamentation should cease. Why can
I not get you to understand, father, that there is a new Byzantium? That even in the Hippodrome
nothing is as it used to be except the colors? How often have I explained to you the latest
social discovery admitted now by everybody outside the religious orders, and by many within
them--I mean the curative element in sin."

"Curative element in sin!" exclaimed the father.

"Ay--Pleasure."

"O God!" sighed the old man, turning his face hopelessly to the wall, "Whither are we drifting?"

He hardly heard the prodigal's farewell.

"If you wish to speak with me, stay here until I return."

This Sergius said when the two passed out of the cell. Going down the darkened passage, he
glanced behind him, and saw the Greek outside the door; and when he came back with the Hegumen's
breakfast, and reentered the apartment, he brushed by him still on the outside. At the cot,
Sergius offered the refreshment on his knees, and in that posture waited while his superior
partook of it; for he discerned how the aged heart was doubly stricken--once for the Church,
deserted by so many of its children, and again for himself, forsaken by his own son.

"What happiness to me, O Sergius, wert thou of my flesh and blood!"

The expression covered every feeling evoked by the situation. Afterwhile another of the Brotherhood
appeared, permitting Sergius to retire.

"I am ready to hear you now," he said, to the Greek at the door.

"Let us to your cell then."

In the cell, Sergius drew forth the one stool permitted him by the rules of the Brotherhood.

"Be seated," he said.

"No," the visitor returned, "I shall be brief. You do not know my father. The St. James' should
relieve him of active duty. His years are sadly enfeebling him."

"But that would he ungrateful in them."

"Heaven knows," the prodigal continued, complainingly, "how I have labored to bring him up
abreast of the time; he lives entirely in the past. But pardon me; if I heard aright, my father
called you Sergius."

"That is my monastic name."

"You are not a Greek?"

"The Great Prince is my political sovereign."

"Well, I am Demedes. My father christened me Metrophanes, after the late Patriarch; but it
did not please me, and I have entitled myself. And now we know each other, let us be friends."

Sergius' veil had fallen over his face, and while replacing it under the hat, he replied, "I
shall strive, Demedes, to love you as I love myself."

The Greek, it should be remembered, was good featured, and of a pleasant manner; so much so,
indeed, as to partially recompense him for his failure in stature; wherefore the overture was
by no means repulsive.

"You may wonder at my plucking you from my father's side; you may wonder still more at my presumption
in seeking to attach myself to you; but I think my reasons good.... In the first place, it
is my duty to acknowledge that but for your interference yesterday the gigantic energumen by
whom I was unexpectedly beset would have slain me. In fact, I had given myself up for lost.
The rocks at the foot of the wall seemed springing out of the water to catch me, and break
every bone in my body. You will accept my thanks, will you not?"

"The saving two fellow beings, one from murder, the other from being murdered, is not, in my
opinion, an act for thanks; still, to ease you of a sense of obligation, I consent to the acknowledgment."

"It does relieve me," Demedes said, with a taking air; "and I am encouraged to go on."

He paused, and surveyed Sergius deliberately from head to foot, and the admiration he permitted
to be seen, taken as a second to his continuing words, could not have been improved by a professed
actor.

"Are not flesh and blood of the same significance in all of us? With youth and health superadded
to a glorious physical structure, may we not always conclude a man rich in spirit and lusty
impulses? Is it possible a gown and priestly hat can entirely suppress his human nature? I
have heard of Anthony the Anchorite."

The idea excited his humor, and he laughed.

"I mean no irreverence," he resumed; "but you know, dear Sergius, it is with laughter as with
tears, we cannot always control it.... Anthony resolved to be a Saint, but was troubled by
visions of beautiful women. To escape them, he followed some children of Islam into the desert.
Alas! the visions went with him. He burrowed then in a tomb--still the visions. He hid next
in the cellar of an old castle--in vain--the visions found him out. He flagellated himself
for eighty and nine years, every day and night of which was a battle with the visions. He left
two sheepskins to as many bishops, and one haircloth shirt to two favorite disciples--they
had been his armor against the visions. Finally, lest the seductive goblins should assail him
in death, he bade the disciples lose him by burial in an unknown place. Sergius, my good friend"--here
the Greek drew nearer, and laid a hand lightly on the monk's flowing sleeve--"I heard some
of your replies to my father, and respect your genius too much to do more than ask why you
should waste your youth"--

"Forbear! Go not further--no, not a word!" Sergius exclaimed. "Dost thou account the crown
the Saint at last won nothing?"

Demedes did not seem in the least put out by the demonstration; possibly he expected it, and
was satisfied with the hearing continued him.

"I yield to you," he said, with a smile, "and willingly since you convince me I was not mistaken
in your perception.... My father is a good man. His goodness, however, but serves to make him
more sensitive to opposition. The divisions of the Church give him downright suffering. I have
heard him go on about them hours at a time. Probably his proneness to lamentation should be
endured with respectful patience; but there is a peculiarity in it--he is blind to everything
save the loss of power and influence the schisms are fated to entail upon the Church. He fights
valorously in season and out for the old orthodoxies, believing that with the lapse of religion
as at present organized the respectability and dominion of the holy orders will also lapse.
Nay, Sergius, to say it plainly, he and the Brotherhood are fast keying themselves up to a
point in fanaticism when dissent appears blackest heresy. To you, a straightforward seeker
after information, it has never occurred, I suspect, to inquire how far--or rather how close--beyond
that attainment lie punishments of summary infliction and most terrible in kind? Torture--the
stake--holocausts in the Hippodrome--spectacles in the Cynegion--what are they to the enthused
Churchmen but righteous judgments mercifully executed on wayward heretics? I tell you, monk--and
as thou lovest her, heed me--I tell you the Princess Irene is in danger."

This was unexpected, and forcibly put; and thinking of the Princess, Sergius lost the calmness
he had up to this time successfully kept.

"The Princess--tortured--God forbid!"

"Recollect," the Greek continued--"for you will reflect upon this--recollect I overheard the
close of your interview with my father. To-morrow, or upon your return from Therapia, be it
when it may, he will interrogate you with respect to whatever she may confide to you in the
least relative to the Creed, which, as he states, she has prepared for herself. You stand warned.
Consider also that now I have in part acquitted myself of the obligation I am under to you
for my life."

The simple-mindedness of the monk, to whom the book of the world was just beginning to open,
was an immense advantage to the Greek. It should not be surprising, therefore, if the former
relaxed his air, and leaned a little forward to hear what was further submitted to him.

"Have you breakfasted?" the prodigal asked, in his easy manner.

"I have not."

"Ah! In concern for my father, you have neglected yourself. Well, I must not be inconsiderate.
A hungry man is seldom a patient listener. Shall I break off now?"

"You have interested me, and I may be gone several days."

"Very well. I will make haste. It is but justice to the belligerents in the spiritual war to
admit the zeal they have shown; Gregory the Patriarch, and his Latins, on the one side, and
Scholarius and his Greeks on the other. They have occupied the pulpits alternately, each refusing
presence to the other. They decline association in the Sacramental rites. In Sta. Sophia, it
is the Papal mass to-day; to-morrow, it will be the Greek mass. It requires a sharp sense to
detect the opposition in smell between the incense with which the parties respectively fumigate
the altars of the ancient house. I suppose there is a difference. Yesterday the parabaloni
came to blows over a body they were out burying, and in the struggle the bier was knocked down,
and the dead spilled out. The Greeks, being the most numerous, captured the labarum of the
Latins, and washed it in the mud; yet the monogram on it was identical with that on their own.
Still I suppose there was a difference."

Demedes laughed.

"But seriously, Sergius, there is much more of the world outside of the Church--or Churches,
as you prefer--than on the inside. In the tearing each other to pieces, the militants have
lost sight of the major part, and, as normally bound, it has engaged in thinking for itself.
That is, the shepherd is asleep, the dogs are fighting, and the sheep, left to their individual
conduct, are scattered in a hunt for fresher water and greener pasturage. Have you heard of
the Academy of Epicurus?"

"No."

"I will tell you about it. But do you take the seat there. It is not within my purpose to exhaust
you in this first conference."

"I am not tired."

