On exhibiting my matsedel, or "bill of fare," to the first teacher who happened to be disengaged,
I received my first movement, which consisted in being held with my back against a post, while
I turned my body from side to side against strong resistance, employing the muscles of the
chest only. I was then told to walk for five minutes before taking the second movement. It
is unnecessary to recapitulate the various contortions I was made to perform; suffice it to
say, that I felt very sore after them, which Professor Branting considered a promising sign,
and that, at the end of a month, I was taken off the sick list and put among the friskas, or
healthy patients, to whom more and severer movements, in part active, are allotted. This department
was under the special charge of Baron Vegesach, an admirable teacher, and withal a master of
fencing with the bayonet, a branch of defensive art which the Swedes have the honour of originating.
The drill of the young officers in bayonet exercise was one of the finest things of the kind
I ever saw. I prospered so well under the Baron's tuition, that at the end of the second month
I was able to climb a smooth mast, to run up ropes with my hands, and to perform various other
previous impossibilities, while my chest had increased an inch and a half in circumference,
the addition being solid muscle.

During the time of my attendance I could not help but notice the effect of the discipline upon
the other patients, especially the children. The weak and listless gradually straightened themselves;
the pale and sallow took colour and lively expression; the crippled and paralytic recovered
the use of their limbs; in short, all, with the exception of two or three hypochondriacs, exhibited
a very marked improvement. The cheerfulness and geniality which pervaded the company, and of
which Professor Branting himself was the best example, no doubt assisted the cure. All, both
teachers and pupils, met on a platform of the most absolute equality, and willingly took turns
in lending a hand wherever it was needed. I have had my feet held up by a foreign ambassador,
while a pair of Swedish counts applied the proper degree of resistance to the muscles of my
arms and shoulders. The result of my observation and experience was, that Ling's system of
physical education is undoubtedly the best in the world, and that, as a remedial agent in all
cases of congenital weakness or deformity, as well as in those diseases which arise from a
deranged circulation, its value can scarcely be over-estimated. It may even afford indirect
assistance in more serious organic diseases, but I do not believe that it is of much service
in those cases where chemical agencies are generally employed. Professor Branting, however,
asserts that it is a specific for all diseases whatsoever, including consumption, malignant
fevers, and venereal affections. One thing at least is certain--that in an age when physical
training is most needed and most neglected, this system deserves to be introduced into every
civilised country, as an indispensable branch in the education of youth.

I found the Swedish language as easy to read as it is difficult to speak correctly. The simplicity
of its structure, which differs but slightly from English, accounts for the former quality,
while the peculiar use of the definite article as a terminal syllable, attached to the noun,
is a great impediment to fluent speaking. The passive form of the verb also requires much practice
before it becomes familiar, and the mode of address in conversation is awkward and inconvenient
beyond measure. The word you, or its correspondent, is never used, except in speaking to inferiors;
wherever it occurs in other languages, the title of the person addressed must be repeated;
as, for example: "How is the Herr Justizråd? I called at the Herr Justizråd's house this morning,
but the Herr Justizråd was not at home." Some of the more progressive Swedes are endeavouring
to do away with this absurdity, by substituting the second person plural, ni, which is already
used in literature, but even they only dare to use it in their own private circle. The Swedes,
especially in Stockholm, speak with a peculiar drawl and singing accent, exactly similar to
that which is often heard in Scotland. It is very inferior to the natural, musical rhythm of
Spanish, to which, in its vocalisation, Swedish has a great resemblance. Except Finnish, which
is music itself, it is the most melodious of northern languages, and the mellow flow of its
poetry is often scarcely surpassed by the Italian. The infinitive verb always ends in a, and
the language is full of soft, gliding iambics, which give a peculiar grace to its poetry.

It is rather singular that the Swedish prose, in point of finish and elegance, is far behind
the Swedish poetry. One cause of this may be, that it is scarcely more than fifty years since
the prose writers of the country began to use their native language. The works of Linnæus,
Swedenborg, and other authors of the past century must now be translated into Swedish. Besides,
there are two prose dialects--a conversational and a declamatory, the latter being much more
artificial and involved than the former. All public addresses, as well as prose documents of
a weighty or serious character, must be spoken or written in this pompous and antiquated style,
owing to which, naturally, the country is almost destitute of orators. But the poets,--especially
men of the sparkling fancy of Bellman, or the rich lyrical inspiration of Tegner, are not to
be fettered by such conventionalities; and they have given the verse of Sweden an ease, and
grace, and elegance, which one vainly seeks in its prose. In Stockholm, the French taste, so
visible in the manners of the people, has also affected the language, and a number of French
words and forms of expression, which have filtered through society, from the higher to the
lower classes, are now in general use. The spelling, however, is made to conform to Swedish
pronunciation, and one is amused at finding on placards such words as "trottoar," "salong,"
and "paviljong."

No country is richer in song-literature than Sweden. The popular songs and ballads of the different
provinces, wedded to airs as original and characteristic as the words, number many hundreds.
There are few Swedes who cannot sing, and I doubt whether any country in Europe would be able
to furnish so many fine voices. Yet the taste for what is foreign and unaccustomed rules, and
the minstrels of the cafes and the Djurgård are almost without exception German. Latterly,
two or three bands of native singers have been formed, who give concerts devoted entirely to
the country melodies of Sweden; and I believe they have been tolerably successful.

In these studies, relieved occasionally by rambles over the hills, whenever there was an hour's
sunshine, and by occasional evenings with Swedish, English, and American friends, we passed
the months of March and April, waiting for the tardy spring. Of the shifting and picturesque
views which Stockholm presents to the stranger's eye, from whatever point he beholds her, we
never wearied; but we began at last to tire of our ice-olation, and to look forward to the
reopening of the Gotha Canal, as a means of escape. Day after day it was a new satisfaction
to behold the majestic palace crowning the island-city and looking far and wide over the frozen
lakes; the tall, slender spire of the Riddarholm, soaring above the ashes of Charles XII. and
Gustavus Adolphus, was always a welcome sight; but we had seen enough of the hideous statues
which ornament the public squares, (Charles XII. not among them, and the imbecile Charles XIII.
occupying the best place); we grew tired of the monotonous perambulators on the Forrbro, and
the tameness and sameness of Stockholm life in winter: and therefore hailed the lengthening
days which heralded our deliverance.

As to the sights of the capital, are they not described in the guide-books? The champion of
the Reformation lies in his chapel, under a cloud of his captured banners: opposite to him,
the magnificent madman of the North, with hundreds of Polish and Russian ensigns rustling above
his heads. In the royal armory you see the sword and the bloody shirt of the one, the bullet-pierced
hat and cloak of the other, still coated with the mud of the trench at Fredrickshall. There
are robes and weapons of the other Carls and Gustavs, but the splendour of Swedish history
is embodied in these two names, and in that of Gustavus Vasa, who lies entombed in the old
cathedral at Upsala. When I had grasped their swords, and the sabre of Czar Peter, captured
at Narva, I felt that there were no other relics in Sweden which could make my heart throb
a beat the faster.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MANNERS AND MORALS OF STOCKHOLM.

As a people, the Swedes are very hospitable, and particularly so toward foreigners. There is
perhaps no country in Europe where travellers are treated with so much kindness and allowed
so many social privileges. This is fortunate, as the conventionalities of the country are more
rigid than the laws of the Medes and Persians. Nothing excites greater scandal than an infraction
of the numberless little formalities with which the descendants of the honest, spontaneous,
impulsive old Scandinavians have, somehow or other, allowed themselves to be fettered, and
were not all possible allowance made for the stranger, he would have but a dismal time of it.
Notwithstanding these habits have become a second nature, they are still a false nature, and
give a painfully stiff and constrained air to society. The Swedes pride themselves on being
the politest people in Europe. Voltaire called them the "Frenchmen of the North," and they
are greatly flattered by the epithet. But how much better, to call themselves Swedes?--to preserve
the fine, manly characteristics of their ancient stock, rather than imitate a people so alien
to them in blood, in character, and in antecedents. Those meaningless social courtesies which
sit well enough upon the gay, volatile, mercurial Frenchman, seem absurd affectations when
practiced by the tall, grave, sedate Scandinavian. The intelligent Swedes feel this, but they
are powerless to make headway against the influence of a court which was wholly French, even
before Bernadotte's time. "We are a race of apes," said one of them to me bitterly. Gustavus
III. was thoroughly French in his tastes, but the ruin of Swedish nationality in Stockholm
was already commenced when he ascended the throne.

Stockholm manners, at present, are a curious mixture of English and French, the latter element,
of course, being predominant. In costume, the gentlemen are English, with exaggeration. Nowhere
are to be seen such enormously tall and stiff black chimney-pots (misnamed hats), nowhere such
straight-cut overcoats, descending to the very heels. You might stick all the men you see into
pasteboard cards, like a row of pins, so precisely are they clothed upon the same model. But
when you meet one of these grim, funereal figures, he pulls off his hat with a politeness which
is more than French; he keeps it off, perhaps, while he is speaking; you shake hands and accept
his invitation to enter his house. After you are within, he greets you a second time with the
same ceremonies, as if you had then first met; he says, "Tak for sist!" (equivalent to; "thank
you for the pleasure of your company the last time we met!") and, after your visit is over,
you part with equal formality. At dinner the guests stand gravely around the table with clasped
hands, before sitting down. This is repeated on rising, after which they bow to each other
and shake hands with the host and hostess. Formerly they used to say "I thank you for the meal,"
a custom still retained in Denmark and Norway. Not long ago the guests were obliged to make
a subsequent visit of ceremony to thank the host for his entertainment, and he was obliged
to invite them all to a second dinner, in consequence thereof; so that giving one dinner always
involved giving two. Fortunately the obligation was cancelled by the second, or the visits
and dinners might have gone on alternately, ad infinitum.

At dinners and evening parties, white gloves and white cravats are invariably worn, and generally
white vests. The same custom is observed at funerals, even the drivers of the hearse and carriages
being furnished with resplendent white gloves for the occasion. I have a horror of white cravats,
and took advantage of the traveller's privilege to wear a black one. I never could understand
why, in England, where the boundaries of caste are so distinctly marked, a gentleman's full
dress should be his servant's livery. The chimney-pots are no protection to the head in raw
or very cold weather, and it required no little courage in me to appear in fur or felt. "I
wish I could wear such a comfortable hat," said a Swede to me; "but I dare not; you are a traveller,
and it is permitted; but a Swede would lose his position in society, if he were to do so."
Another gentleman informed me that his own sisters refused to appear in the streets with him,
because he wore a cap. A former English Consul greatly shocked the people by carrying home
his own marketing. A few gentlemen have independence enough to set aside, in their own houses,
some of the more disagreeable features of this conventionalism, and the success of two or three,
who held weekly soirees through the winter, on a more free and unrestrained plan, may in the
end restore somewhat of naturalness and spontaneity to the society of Stockholm.

The continual taking off of your hat to everybody you know, is a great annoyance to many strangers.
A lift of the hat, as in Germany, is not sufficient. You must remove it entirely, and hold
it in the air a second or two before you replace it. King Oscar once said to an acquaintance
of mine, who was commiserating him for being obliged to keep his hat off, the whole length
of the Drottning-gatan, in a violent snow-storm: "You are quite right; it was exceedingly disagreeable,
and I could not help wishing that instead of being king of Sweden, I were king of Thibet, where,
according to Huc, the polite salutation is simply to stick out your tongue." The consideration
extended to foreigners is, I am told, quite withdrawn after they become residents; so that,
as an Englishman informed me, Stockholm is much more pleasant the first year than the second.
The principle, on the whole, is about the same as governs English, and most American society,
only in Sweden its tyranny is more severely felt, on account of the French imitations which
have been engrafted upon it.

I do not wish to be understood as saying a word in censure of that genial courtesy which is
characteristic of the Swedes, not less of the bonder, or country farmers, than of the nobility.
They are by nature a courteous people, and if, throughout the country, something of the primness
and formality of ancient manners has been preserved, it the rather serves to give a quaint
and picturesque grace to society. The affectation of French manners applies principally to
the capital, which, both in manners and morals, can by no means be taken as a standard for
the whole country. The Swedes are neither licentious, nor extravagantly over-mannered: the
Stockholmers are both. During the whole of our journey to Lapland, we were invariably treated
with a courtesy which bordered on kindness, and had abundant opportunities of noticing the
general amenity which exists in the intercourse even of the poorest classes. The only really
rude people we saw, were travelling traders, especially those from the capital, who thought
to add to their importance by a little swaggering.

I recollect hearing of but a single instance in which the usual world-wide rules of hospitality
were grossly violated. This occurred to an English traveller, who spent some time in the interior
of the country. While taking tea one evening with a prominent family of the province, he happened
to make use of his thumb and fore-finger in helping himself to a lump of sugar. The mistress
of the house immediately sent out the servant, who reappeared after a short time with another
sugar-bowl, filled with fresh lumps. Noticing this, the traveller, in order to ascertain whether
his harmless deviation from Swedish customs had really contaminated the whole sugar-bowl, sweetened
his second cup in the same manner. The result was precisely the same: the servant was again
sent out, and again returned with a fresh supply. The traveller, thereupon, coolly walked to
the stove, opened the door, and threw in his cup, saucer, and tea-spoon, affecting to take
it for granted that they never could be used again.

Speaking of King Oscar reminds me that I should not fail to say a word about this liberal and
enlightened monarch. There is probably no king in Europe at present, who possesses such extensive
acquirements, or is animated by a more genuine desire for the good of his kingdom. The slow
progress which Sweden has made in introducing needful reforms is owing to the conservative
spirit of the nobility and the priesthood, who possess half the legislative power. I do not
believe there is a greater enemy to progress than an established church. Oscar is deservedly
popular throughout Sweden, and I wish I could believe that his successor will exhibit equal
intelligence and liberality. During my stay I saw all the members of the Royal Family frequently,
and once had an informal self-presentation to the whole of them. I was descending the stairway
of Kahn's Hotel one afternoon, when a tall, black-bearded, Frenchy gentleman coming up, brushed
so close to me in the narrow passage that he received the full benefit of a cloud of smoke
which I was ejaculating. It was the Crown Prince, as a servant whispered to me, but as my cigar
was genuine Havana, and he is said to be a connoisseur of the article, there was no harm done.
As I reached the street door a dragoon dashed up, preceding the carriages containing the Royal
Family, who were coming to view Professor Enslen's panoramas. First, the Crown Princess, with
her children; she bowed gracefully in answer to my greeting. The Princess Eugenia, a lady of
twenty-seven, or thereabouts, with a thoroughly cheerful and amiable face, came next and nodded,
smiling. With her was the Queen, a daughter of Eugene Beauharnais, a handsome woman for her
years, with the dark hair and eyes of her grandmother, Josephine. King Oscar followed, at the
head of a company of officers and nobles, among whom was his second son, Prince Oscar, the
handsomest young man in Stockholm. He wore his Admiral's uniform, and made me a naval salute
as he passed. The King is about medium height, with a symmetrical head, a bold, finely-cut
nose, keen, intelligent eyes, and a heavy grey moustache. There was something gallant, dashing,
and manly in his air, despite his fifty-seven years. He gave me the impression of an honest,
energetic and thoroughly accomplished man; and this is the character he bears throughout Sweden,
except with a small class, who charge him with being insincere, and too much under the influence
of the Queen, against whom, however, they can find no charge, except that of her Catholicism.

I was sorry to notice, not only in Stockholm, but more or less throughout Sweden, a spirit
of detraction in regard to everything Swedish. Whenever I mentioned with admiration the name
of a distinguished Swede, I was almost always sure to hear, in return, some disparaging remark,
or a story to his disadvantage. Yet, singularly enough, the Swedes are rather sensitive to
foreign criticism, seeming to reserve for themselves the privilege of being censorious. No
amount of renown, nor even the sanctity which death gives to genius, can prevent a certain
class of them from exhibiting the vices and weaknesses of their countrymen. Much the severest
things which I heard said about Sweden, were said by Swedes themselves, and I was frequently
obliged to rely upon my own contrary impressions, to protect me from the chance of being persuaded
to paint things worse than they really are.

Just before leaving Stockholm I made application, through the Hon. Mr. Schroeder, our Minister
Resident, and Baron Lagerheim, for the privilege of an interview with the king. A few days
previously, however, he had been attacked with that illness which has obliged him to withdraw
from the labours of government, and was advised by his physicians to receive no one. He sent
me a very kind message, with an invitation to renew my request as soon as his health should
be restored. Gentlemen who had opportunities of knowing the fact, assured me that his health
broke down under an accumulation of labour and anxiety, in his endeavours to bring the question
of religious liberty before the Diet--a measure in which he had to contend with the united
influence of the clergy, the House of Peasants, whom the clergy rule to a great extent, and
a portion of the House of Nobles. It is not often that a king is in advance of the general
sentiment of his people, and in losing the services of Oscar, I fear that Sweden has lost her
best man. The Crown Prince, now Prince Regent, is said to be amiably weak in his character,
rather reactionary in his views, and very ambitious of military glory. At least, that is the
average of the various opinions which I heard expressed concerning him.

After speaking of the manners of Stockholm, I must not close this chapter without saying a
few words about its morals. It has been called the most licentious city in Europe, and, I have
no doubt, with the most perfect justice. Vienna may surpass it in the amount of conjugal infidelity,
but certainly not in general incontinence. Very nearly half the registered births are illegitimate,
to say nothing of the illegitimate children born in wedlock. Of the servant-girls, shop-girls,
and seamstresses in the city, it is very safe to say that scarcely ten out of a hundred are
chaste, while, as rakish young Swedes have coolly informed me, many girls of respectable parentage,
belonging to the middle class, are not much better. The men, of course, are much worse than
the women, and even in Paris one sees fewer physical signs of excessive debauchery. Here, the
number of broken-down young men, and blear-eyed, hoary sinners, is astonishing. I have never
been in any place where licentiousness was so open and avowed--and yet, where the slang of
a sham morality was so prevalent. There are no houses of prostitution in Stockholm, and the
city would be scandalised at the idea of allowing such a thing. A few years ago two were established
and the fact was no sooner known than a virtuous mob arose and violently pulled them down!
At the restaurants, young blades order their dinners of the female waiters, with an arm around
their waists, while the old men place their hands unblushingly upon their bosoms. All the baths
in Stockholm are attended by women (generally middle-aged and hideous, I must confess), who
perform the usual scrubbing and shampooing with the greatest nonchalance. One does not wonder
when he is told of young men who have passed safely through the ordeals of Berlin and Paris,
and have come at last to Stockholm to be ruined.[B]

It is but fair to say that the Swedes account for the large proportion of illegitimate births,
by stating that many unfortunate females come up from the country to hide their shame in the
capital, which is no doubt true. Everything that I have said has been derived from residents
of Stockholm, who, proud as they are, and sensitive, cannot conceal this glaring depravity.
The population of Stockholm, as is proved by statistics, has only been increased during the
last fifty years by immigration from the country, the number of deaths among the inhabitants
exceeding the births by several hundreds every year. I was once speaking with a Swede about
these facts, which he seemed inclined to doubt. "But," said I, "they are derived from your
own statistics." "Well," he answered, with a naïve attempt to find some compensating good,
"you must at least admit that the Swedish statistics are as exact as any in the world!"

Drunkenness is a leading vice among the Swedes, as we had daily evidence. Six years ago the
consumption of brandy throughout the kingdom was nine gallons for every man, woman, and child
annually; but it has decreased considerably since then, mainly through the manufacture of beer
and porter. "Bajerskt öl" (Bavarian beer) is now to be had everywhere, and is rapidly becoming
the favourite drink of the people. Sweden and the United States will in the end establish the
fact that lager beer is more efficacious in preventing intemperance than any amount of prohibitory
law. Brandy-drinking is still, nevertheless, one of the greatest curses of Sweden. It is no
unusual thing to see boys of twelve or fourteen take their glass of fiery finkel before dinner.
The celebrated Swedish punch, made of arrack, wine, and sugar, is a universal evening drink,
and one of the most insidious ever invented, despite its agreeable flavor. There is a movement
in favor of total abstinence, but it seems to have made but little progress, except as it is
connected with some of the new religious ideas, which are now preached throughout the country.

I have rarely witnessed a sadder example of ruin, than one evening in a Stockholm café. A tall,
distinguished-looking man of about forty, in an advanced state of drunkenness, was seated at
a table opposite to us. He looked at me awhile, apparently endeavoring to keep hold of some
thought with which his mind was occupied. Rising at last he staggered across the room, stood
before me, and repeated the words of Bellman:

     "Så vandra våra stora män'
     Från ljuset ned til skuggan."[C]

A wild, despairing laugh followed the lines, and he turned away, but came back again and again
to repeat them. He was a nobleman of excellent family, a man of great intellectual attainments,
who, a few years ago, was considered one of the most promising young men in Sweden. I saw him
frequently afterwards, and always in the same condition, but he never accosted me again. The
Swedes say the same thing of Bellman himself, and of Tegner, and many others, with how much
justice I care not to know, for a man's faults are to be accounted for to God, and not to a
gossiping public.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] The substance of the foregoing paragraph was contained in a letter published in The New-York
Tribune during my travels in the North, and which was afterwards translated and commented upon
by the Swedish papers. The latter charged me with having drawn too dark a picture and I therefore
took some pains to test my statements, both by means of the Government statistics, and the
views of my Swedish friends. I see no reason to change my first impression: had I accepted
all that was told me by natives of the capital, I should have made the picture much darker.
The question is simply whether there is much difference between the general adoption of illicit
connections, or the existence of open prostitution. The latter is almost unknown; the former
is almost universal, the supply being kept up by the miserable rates of wages paid to female
servants and seamstresses. The former get, on an average, fifty rigsdaler ($13) per year, out
of which they must clothe themselves: few of the latter can make one rigsdaler a day. These
connections are also encouraged by the fact, that marriage legitimates all the children previously
born. In fact, during the time of my visit to Stockholm, a measure was proposed in the House
of Clergy, securing to bastards the same right of inheritance, as to legitimate children. Such
measures, however just they may be so far as the innocent offspring of a guilty connection
are concerned, have a direct tendency to impair the sanctity of marriage, and consequently
the general standard of morality.

This, the most vital of all the social problems, is strangely neglected. The diseases and excesses
which it engenders are far more devastating than those which spring from any other vice, and
yet no philanthropist is bold enough to look the question in the face. The virtuous shrink
from it, the vicious don't care about it, the godly simply condemn, and the ungodly indulge--and
so the world rolls on, and hundreds of thousands go down annually to utter ruin. It is useless
to attempt the extirpation of a vice which is inherent in the very nature of man, and the alternative
of either utterly ignoring, or of attempting to check and regulate it, is a question of the
most vital importance to the whole human race.

[C] "Thus our great men wander from the light down into the shades."

CHAPTER XIX

JOURNEY TO GOTTENBURG AND COPENHAGEN.

I never knew a more sudden transition from winter to summer than we experienced on the journey
southward from Stockholm. When we left that city on the evening of the 6th of May, there were
no signs of spring except a few early violets and anemones on the sheltered southern banks
in Haga Park; the grass was still brown and dead, the trees bare, and the air keen; but the
harbour was free from ice and the canal open, and our winter isolation was therefore at an
end. A little circulation entered into the languid veins of society; steamers from Germany
began to arrive; fresh faces appeared in the streets, and less formal costumes--merchants and
bagmen only, it is true, but people of a more dashing and genial air. We were evidently, as
the Swedes said, leaving Stockholm just as it began to be pleasant and lively.

The steamer left the Riddarholm pier at midnight, and took her way westward up the Mälar Lake
to Södertelje. The boats which ply on the Gotha canal are small, but neat and comfortable.
The price of a passage to Gottenburg, a distance of 370 miles, is about $8.50. This, however,
does not include meals, which are furnished at a fixed price, amounting to $6 more. The time
occupied by the voyage varies from two and a half to four days. In the night we passed through
the lock at Södertelje, where St. Olaf, when a heathen Viking, cut a channel for his ships
into the long Baltic estuary which here closely approaches the lake, and in the morning found
ourselves running down the eastern shore of Sweden, under the shelter of its fringe of jagged
rocky islets. Towards noon we left the Baltic, and steamed up the long, narrow Bay of Söderköping,
passing, on the way, the magnificent ruins of Stegeborg Castle, the first mediæval relic I
had seen in Sweden. Its square massive walls, and tall round tower of grey stone, differed
in no respect from those of contemporary ruins in Germany.

Before reaching Söderköping, we entered the canal, a very complete and substantial work of
the kind, about eighty feet in breadth, but much more crooked than would seem to be actually
necessary. For this reason the boats make but moderate speed, averaging not more than six or
seven miles an hour, exclusive of the detention at the locks. The country is undulating, and
neither rich nor populous before reaching the beautiful Roxen Lake, beyond which we entered
upon a charming district. Here the canal rises, by eleven successive locks, to the rich uplands
separating the Roxen from the Wetter, a gently rolling plain, chequered, so far as the eye
could reach, with green squares of springing wheat and the dark mould of the newly ploughed
barley fields. While the boat was passing the locks, we walked forward to a curious old church,
called Vreta Kloster. The building dates from the year 1128, and contains the tombs of three
Swedish kings, together with that of the Count Douglas, who fled hither from Scotland in the
time of Cromwell. The Douglas estate is in this neighbourhood, and is, I believe, still in
the possession of the family. The church must at one time have presented a fine, venerable
appearance: but all its dark rich colouring and gilding are now buried under a thick coat of
white-wash.

We had already a prophecy of the long summer days of the North, in the perpetual twilight which
lingered in the sky, moving around from sunset to sunrise. During the second night we crossed
the Wetter Lake, which I did not see; for when I came on deck we were already on the Viken,
the most beautiful sheet of water between Stockholm and Gottenburg. Its irregular shores, covered
with forests of fir and birch, thrust out long narrow headlands which divide it into deep bays,
studded with wild wooded islands. But the scenery was still that of winter, except in the absence
of ice and snow. We had not made much southing, but we expected to find the western side of
Sweden much warmer than the eastern. The highest part of the canal, more than 300 feet above
the sea, was now passed, however, and as we descended the long barren hills towards the Wener
Lake I found a few early wild flowers in the woods. In the afternoon we came upon the Wener,
the third lake in Europe, being one hundred miles in extent by about fifty in breadth. To the
west, it spread away to a level line against the sky; but, as I looked southward, I perceived
two opposite promontories, with scattered islands between, dividing the body of water into
almost equal portions. The scenery of the Wener has great resemblance to that of the northern
portion of Lake Michigan. Further down on the eastern shore, the hill of Kinnekulle, the highest
land in Southern Sweden, rises to the height of nearly a thousand feet above the water, with
a graceful and very gradual sweep; but otherwise the scenery is rather tame, and, I suspect,
depends for most of its beauty upon the summer foliage.

