  Not what he was, but what he should have been.

It is established that they were a kindly, peace-loving people, genial and courtly; but whether
law-abiding is another matter.  We know nothing about their laws, but we know {37} that the
law-courts were busy, and that legal officials were numerous; and we know, further, that their
duplicity and lack of straightforwardness were proverbial among the Greeks and Romans, and
persists to this day.

I have noted above the resemblance of the Egyptian Instructions to the Jewish didactic books
(Proverbs and Ecclesiastes in the Old Testament, Wisdom of Solomon and Ecclesiasticus in the
Apocrypha); this will be obvious to all readers.  Compare, e.g., the opening of Ptah-hotep
(§B) with the opening of Proverbs.   It is not necessary to point out all the parallels in detail.

I come, lastly, to speak of other translations.[19] The first into any language was that of
the Rev. D. I. Heath, Vicar of Brading, Isle of Wight.  This version, which first appeared
in 1856, was ruined by the translator's theory that the Prisse Papyrus contained references
to the Exodus, and was written by the 'Shepherd-King,' Aphobis.  How he obtained that name
from Ptah-hotep, how he read the Exodus into his book, or how he got three-fourths of his translation,
it is not possible to say.  Written in a style which is in itself a matter for decipherment,
it is full of absurdities and gratuitous mistakes, and {38} is entirely worthless.  It is one
more instance of the lamentable results that arise when a person with a preconceived Biblical
theory comes into contact with Egyptian records.  In the following year M. Chabas did part
of the papyrus into French, and, as might be expected of an Egyptologist of such attainments,
his version was infinitely more accurate than the foregoing.  In 1869 Herr Lauth made a translation--also
partial--into Latin, and in 1884; M. Philippe Virey published a careful study and complete
translation of both books.  His rendering[20] was subsequently translated into English and
published (with some alterations) in Records of the Past, 1890, and has remained the only complete
translation in English.  It has been taken bodily (even the footnotes) into Myer's Oldest Books
in the World, and has been put into charming verse by Canon Rawnsley in his Notes for the Nile.
Thus it appears to be, in a sense, the standard version.  Nevertheless, it leaves very much
to be desired in point of accuracy, although the general sense of each section is usually caught.
Of later years Mr. Griffith has done important work on this text, and I am indebted to his
translations for several readings.

As regards the version here offered, I will only say that it has been done with considerable
care, {39} without prejudice, and, it is thought, in accordance with scientific methods of
translation; and that it has been compared with all previous renderings, and will be found
to be, on the whole, the most accurate that has yet appeared.

And now I will leave Ptah-hotep to speak for himself.  It may be thought that he has been introduced
at too great length; but I would point out that his book has been strangely overlooked by the
educated public hitherto, although it would be difficult to over-estimate its importance, to
literature as the oldest complete book known, to ethics and theology as the earliest expression
of the mystery we name Conscience, and to lovers of antiquity as one of the most instructive
and touching relics of a people and a power that once were great and are now brought to nothing.
By a happy chance the words of our sage have been justified, in that he said, 'No word that
hath here been set down shall cease out of the land for ever.'  Would indeed that we had more
of such books as this, whereby we may a little lighten the darkness that lies behind the risings
of a million suns; and learn how little the human heart, and the elements of human intercourse,
alter throughout the ages.  And what of the other writers of that time, whose works and whose
very names are entirely swept away?  To this there is no better answer made than in the lamentation
made by the harper close upon five {40} thousand years ago, which was written up in the tomb
of King 'Entef:

Those that built them tombs, he sang, have now no resting-place. Lo! what of their deeds? 
I have heard the words of Yemhotep and of Hardedef, whose sayings men repeat continually. 
Behold! where are their abodes?  Their walls are over-thrown, and their places are not, even
as though they had not been.'

The burden of Egypt.

BATTISCOMBE G. GUNN.

3, PARK HILL ROAD,
  CROYDON.

[1] Much ingenuity has been expended to show that Egyptian manners and customs, books, and
other things, were "much the same" as our own, as though the supposed similarity reflected
any credit either on them or on us.  Except in customs which are common to all times and places,
as drinking beer, writing love-letters, making wills, going to school, and other things antecedently
probable, the Egyptian life can show very few parallels to the life of to-day.

[2] The monuments leave no doubt of this.  Pen and ink were used in the First Dynasty, and
speech had been reduced to visible signs before that.

[3] About B.C. 1770.  In all Egyptian dates given in this book I follow Professor Petrie's
chronology.

[4] These are round figures, of course, and in the case of Solomon and Moses traditional dates.
Modern criticism places Genesis and Proverbs much later than 1500 and 1000 B.C.

[5] See Appendix for the literature of this papyrus.

[6] These were kings of the Eleventh Dynasty, about 2986 B.C.

[7] In the translation these divisions are indicated, for purposes of reference, by numbers
and letters, which are not, of course, in the original.  So also in the Instruction of Amenemhê'et
(Appendix).

[8] Pwenet: the identification is not certain.

[9] Fragments of another are in the British Museum.

[10] It has been thought to be as late as the Seventeenth (about 1600 B.C.), but the balance
of opinion favours the above-mentioned period.

[11] The inscriptions and sculptures from this tomb have not yet been published, but a work
dealing with it will shortly appear.  The above titles, excepting the first, are from Lepsius,
Denkmäler aus Ägypten und Äthiopien, Abth. II. 48, Berlin, 1849-68.

[12] Called Ptah-hotep I. by Egyptologists.  For a description of his tomb, see Mariette, A.,
Les Mastabas de l'Ancien Empire, Paris, 1889, D. 62.  For the other Ptah-hotep under Isôsi,
see Quibell, J. E., and Griffith, F. L., Egyptian Research Account; The Ramesseum and the Tomb
of Ptah-Hotep, London, 1898.  Also Davies, N. de G., and Griffith, F. L., Egypt Exploration
Fund; The Mastaba of Ptahhetep and Akhethetep at Saqqara, 2 vols., London, 1900, 1901.  The
little figure on the cover of this book is from this tomb.

[13] The Wisdom of the Son of Sirach, chap. xliv.

[14] The Egyptians were monogamists at this time, and the wife enjoyed social equality with
her husband.

[15] Page 29, footnote.

[16] Nôter.

[17] This is an arbitrary name not existing in the original.  It would be better named 'The
Declaration of Innocence.'

[18] It has been thought by many Egyptologists that 'the God' mentioned in this and other texts
is a nameless monotheistic abstraction transcending all named gods.  Although this theory has
the support of many great names, I venture to say that the evidence for such an important doctrine
is in the highest degree unsatisfactory.

[19] The books mentioned here are set forth in detail in the Bibliography.

[20] Only of Ptah-hotep.

{41}

THE INSTRUCTION OF PTAH-HOTEP

The Ethics of Argument--Manners for Guests--From Father to Son--A Just Judge--The Treatment
of Servants--Duties of the Great--The Test of Friendship--The Beauty of Obedience--One Generation
to Another--Whom the King Honoureth

The Instruction of the Governor of his City, the Vizier, Ptah-hotep, in the Reign of the King
of Upper and Lower Egypt, Isôsi, living for ever, to the end of Time.

A.  The Governor of his City, the Vizier, Ptah-hotep, he said: 'O Prince, my Lord, the end
of life is at hand; old age descendeth [upon me]; feebleness cometh, and childishness is renewed.
He [that is old] lieth down in misery every day.  The eyes are small; the ears are deaf. Energy
is diminished, the heart hath no rest.  The mouth is silent, and he speaketh no word; the heart
stoppeth, and he remembereth not yesterday.  The bones are painful throughout the body; good
turneth unto evil.  All taste departeth.  These things doeth old age for mankind, being evil
in all things.  The nose is stopped, and he breatheth not for weakness (?), whether standing
or sitting.

'Command me, thy servant, therefore, to make over my princely authority [to my son].  Let me
speak unto him the words of them that hearken to the counsel of the men of old time; those
that {42} hearkened unto the gods.  I pray thee, let this thing be done, that sin may be banished
from among persons of understanding, that thou may enlighten the lands.'

Said the Majesty of this God:[1] 'Instruct him, then, in the words of old time; may he be a
wonder unto the children of princes, that they may enter and hearken with him.  Make straight
all their hearts; and discourse with him, without causing weariness.'

B.  Here begin the proverbs of fair speech, spoken by the Hereditary Chief, the Holy Father,[2]
Beloved of the God, the Eldest Son of the King, of his body, the Governor of his City, the
Vezier, Ptah-hotep, when instructing the ignorant in the knowledge of exactness in fair-speaking;
the glory of him that obeyeth, the shame of him that transgresseth them.

He said unto his son:

1.  Be not proud because thou art learned; but discourse with the ignorant man, as with the
sage.  For no limit can be set to skill, neither is there any craftsman that possesseth full
advantages.

2.  If thou find an arguer talking, one that is well disposed and wiser than thou, let thine
arms {43} fall, bend thy back,[3] be not angry with him if he agree (?) not with thee.  Refrain
from speaking evilly; oppose him not at any time when he speaketh.  If he address thee as one
ignorant of the matter, thine humbleness shall bear away his contentions.

3.  If thou find an arguer talking, thy fellow, one that is within thy reach, keep not silence
when he saith aught that is evil; so shalt thou be wiser than he.  Great will be the applause
on the part of the listeners, and thy name shall be good in the knowledge of princes.

4.  If thou find an arguer talking, a poor man, that is to say not thine equal, be not scornful
toward him because he is lowly.  Let him alone; then shall he confound himself.  Question him
not to please thine heart, neither pour out thy wrath upon him that is before thee; it is shameful
to confuse a mean mind.  If thou be about to do that which is in thine heart, overcome it as
a thing rejected of princes.

5.  If thou be a leader, as one directing the conduct of the multitude, endeavour always to
be gracious, that thine own conduct be without defect.  Great is Truth, appointing a straight
path; never hath it been overthrown since the {44} reign of Osiris.[4]  One that oversteppeth
the laws shall be punished.  Overstepping is by the covetous man; but degradations (?) bear
off his riches, for the season of his evil-doing ceaseth not.  For he saith, 'I will obtain
by myself for myself,' and saith not, 'I will obtain because I am allowed.'  But the limits
of justice are steadfast; it is that which a man repeateth from his father.

6.  Cause not fear among men; for [this] the God punisheth likewise. For there is a man that
saith, 'Therein is life'; and he is bereft of the bread of his mouth.  There is a man that
saith, 'Power [is therein]'; and he saith, 'I seize for myself that which I perceive.' Thus
a man speaketh, and he is smitten down.  It is another that attaineth by giving unto him that
hath not; not he that causeth men dread.  For it happeneth that what the God hath commanded,
even that thing cometh to pass.  Live, therefore, in the house of kindliness, and men shall
come and give gifts of themselves.

7.  If thou be among the guests of a man that is greater than thou, accept that which he giveth
thee, putting it to thy lips.  If thou look at him that is before thee (thine host), pierce
him not {45} with many glances.  It is abhorred of the soul[5] to stare at him.  Speak not
till he address thee; one knoweth not what may be evil in his opinion. Speak when he questioneth
thee; so shall thy speech be good in his opinion.  The noble who sitteth before food divideth
it as his soul moveth him; he giveth unto him that he would favour--it is the custom of the
evening meal.  It is his soul that guideth his hand.  It is the noble that bestoweth, not the
underling that attaineth.  Thus the eating of bread is under the providence of the God; he
is an ignorant man that disputeth it.

8.  If thou be an emissary sent from one noble to another, be exact after the manner of him
that sent thee, give his message even as he hath said it.  Beware of making enmity by thy words,
setting one noble against the other by perverting truth.  Overstep it not, neither repeat that
which any man, be he prince or peasant, saith in opening the heart; it is abhorrent to the soul.

9.  If thou have ploughed, gather thine harvest in the field, and the God shall make it great
under thine hand.  Fill not thy mouth at thy neighbours' table....[6]  If a crafty man be the
{46} possessor of wealth, he stealeth like a crocodile from the priests.

Let not a man be envious that hath no children; let him be neither downcast nor quarrelsome
on account of it.  For a father, though great, may be grieved; as to the mother of children,
she hath less peace than another.  Verily, each man is created [to his destiny] by the God,
Who is the chief of a tribe, trustful in following him.

10.  If thou be lowly, serve a wise man, that all thine actions may be good before the God.
If thou have known a man of none account that hath been advanced in rank, be not haughty toward
him on account of that which thou knowest concerning him; but honour him that hath been advanced,
according to that which he hath become.

Behold, riches come not of themselves; it is their rule for him that desireth them.  If he
bestir him and collect them himself, the God shall make him prosperous; but He shall punish
him, if he be slothful.

11.  Follow thine heart during thy lifetime; do not more than is commanded thee.  Diminish
not the time of following the heart; it is abhorred of the soul, that its time [of ease] be
taken away.  Shorten not the daytime more than is needful to {47} maintain thine house. When
riches are gained, follow the heart; for riches are of no avail if one be weary.

12.  If thou wouldest be a wise man, beget a son for the pleasing of the God.  If he make straight
his course after thine example, if he arrange thine affairs in due order, do unto him all that
is good, for thy son is he, begotten of thine own soul.  Sunder not thine heart from him, or
thine own begotten shall curse [thee].  If he be heedless and trespass thy rules of conduct,
and is violent; if every speech that cometh from his mouth be a vile word; then beat thou him,
that his talk may be fitting.  Keep him from those that make light of that which is commanded,
for it is they that make him rebellious.[7]  And they that are guided go not astray, but they
that lose their bearings cannot find a straight course.

13.  If thou be in the chamber of council, act always according to the steps enjoined on thee
at the beginning of the day.  Be not absent, or thou shall be expelled; but be ready in entering
and making report. Wide[8] is the seat of one that hath made address.  The council-chamber
acteth by strict rule; and all its plans are in accordance with method. It is the God that
{48} advanceth one to a seat therein; the like is not done for elbowers.

14.  If thou be among people, make for thyself love, the beginning and end of the heart.  One
that knoweth not his course shall say in himself (seeing thee), 'He that ordereth himself duly
becometh the owner of wealth; I shall copy his conduct.'  Thy name shall be good, though thou
speak not; thy body shall be fed; thy face shall be [seen] among thy neighbours; thou shalt
be provided with what thou lackest.  As to the man whose heart obeyeth his belly, he causeth
disgust in place of love. His heart is wretched (?), his body is gross (?), he is insolent
toward those endowed of the God.  He that obeyeth his belly hath an enemy.[9]

15.  Report thine actions without concealment; discover thy conduct when in council with thine
overlord.  It is not evil for the envoy that his report be not answered, 'Yea, I know it,'
by the prince; for that which he knoweth includeth not [this].  If he (the prince) think that
he will oppose him on account of it, [he thinketh] 'He will be silent because I have spoken.'[10]

16.  If thou be a leader, cause that the rules {49} that thou hast enjoined be carried out;
and do all things as one that remembereth the days coming after, when speech availeth not.
Be not lavish of favours; it leadeth to servility (?), producing slackness.

17.  If thou be a leader, be gracious when thou hearkenest unto the speech of a suppliant.
Let him not hesitate to deliver himself of that which he hath thought to tell thee; but be
desirous of removing his injury.  Let him speak freely, that the thing for which he hath come
to thee may be done.  If he hesitate to open his heart, it is said, 'Is it because he (the
judge) doeth the wrong that no entreaties are made to him concerning it by those to whom it
happeneth?' But a well-taught heart hearkeneth readily.

18.  If thou desire to continue friendship in any abode wherein thou enterest, be it as master,
as brother, or as friend; wheresoever thou goest, beware of consorting with women.  No place
prospereth wherein that is done.  Nor is it prudent to take part in it; a thousand men have
been ruined for the pleasure of a little time short as a dream. Even death is reached thereby;
it is a wretched thing.  As for the evil liver, one leaveth him for what he doeth, he is avoided.
If his desires be not gratified, he regardeth (?) no laws.

{50}

19.  If thou desire that thine actions may be good, save thyself from all malice, and beware
of the quality of covetousness, which is a grievous inner (?) malady.  Let it not chance that
thou fall thereinto. It setteth at variance fathers-in-law and the kinsmen of the daughter-in-law;
it sundereth the wife and the husband.  It gathereth unto itself all evils; it is the girdle
of all wickedness.[11]  But the man that is just flourisheth; truth goeth in his footsteps,
and he maketh habitations therein, not in the dwelling of covetousness.

20.  Be not covetous as touching shares, in seizing that which is not thine own property. 
Be not covetous toward thy neighbours; for with a gentle man praise availeth more than might.
He [that is covetous] cometh empty from among his neighbours, being void of the persuasion
of speech.  One hath remorse for even a little covetousness when his belly cooleth.

21.  If thou wouldest be wise, provide for thine house, and love thy wife that is in thine
arms.  Fill her stomach, clothe her back; oil is the remedy of her limbs.  Gladden her heart
during thy lifetime, for she is an estate profitable unto its lord.  Be not harsh, for gentleness
mastereth her more than strength.  Give (?) to her that for which she sigheth and that toward
which her {51} eye looketh; so shalt thou keep her in thine house....

22.  Satisfy thine hired servants out of such things as thou hast; it is the duty of one that
hath been favoured of the God.  In sooth, it is hard to satisfy hired servants.  For one[12]
saith, 'He is a lavish person; one knoweth not that which may come [from him].'  But on the
morrow he thinketh, 'He is a person of exactitude (parsimony), content therein.'  And when
favours have been shown unto servants, they say, 'We go.'  Peace dwelleth not in that town
wherein dwell servants that are wretched.

23.  Repeat not extravagant speech, neither listen thereto; for it is the utterance of a body
heated by wrath.  When such speech is repeated to thee, hearken not thereto, look to the ground.
Speak not regarding it, that he that is before thee may know wisdom.  If thou be commanded
to do a theft, bring it to pass that the command be taken off thee, for it is a thing hateful
according to law.  That which destroyeth a vision is the veil over it.

24.  If thou wouldest be a wise man, and one sitting in council with his overlord, apply thine
heart unto perfection.  Silence is more profitable unto thee than abundance of speech.  Consider
{52} how thou may be opposed by an expert that speaketh in council.  It is a foolish thing
to speak on every kind of work, for he that disputeth thy words shall put them unto proof.

25.  If thou be powerful, make thyself to be honoured for knowledge and for gentleness.  Speak
with authority, that is, not as if following injunctions, for he that is humble (when highly
placed) falleth into errors.  Exalt not thine heart, that it be not brought low.[13]  Be not
silent, but beware of interruption and of answering words with heat. Put it far from thee;
control thyself.   The wrathful heart speaketh fiery words; it darteth out at the man of peace
that approacheth, stopping his path.

One that reckoneth accounts all the day passeth not an happy moment. One that gladdeneth his
heart all the day provideth not for his house. The bowman hitteth the mark, as the steersman
reacheth land, by diversity of aim.  He that obeyeth his heart shall command.[14]

26.  Let not a prince be hindered when he is occupied; neither oppress the heart of him that
is already laden.  For he shall be hostile toward one that delayeth him, but shall bare his
soul {53} unto one that loveth him.  The disposal of souls is with the God, and that which
He loveth is His creation.  Set out, therefore, after a violent quarrel; be at peace with him
that is hostile unto [thee] his opponent.  It is such souls that make love to grow.

27.  Instruct a noble in such things as be profitable unto him; cause that he be received among
men.  Let his satisfaction fall on his master, for thy provision dependeth upon his will. 
By reason of it thy belly shall be satisfied; thy back will be clothed thereby.  Let him receive
thine heart, that thine house may flourish and thine honour--if thou wish it to flourish--thereby.
He shall extend thee a kindly hand. Further, he shall implant the love of thee in the bodies
of thy friends.  Forsooth, it is a soul loving to hearken.[15]

28.  If thou be the son of a man of the priesthood, and an envoy to conciliate the multitude,....[16]
speak thou without favouring one side.  Let it not be said, 'His conduct is that of the nobles,
favouring one side in his speech.'  Turn thine aim toward exact judgments.

{54}

29.  If thou have been gracious at a former time, having forgiven a man to guide him aright,
shun him, remind him not after the first day that he hath been silent to thee [concerning it].

30.  If thou be great, after being of none account, and hast gotten riches after squalor, being
foremost in these in the city, and hast knowledge concerning useful matters, so that promotion
is come unto thee; then swathe not thine heart in thine hoard, for thou art become the steward
of the endowments of the God.  Thou art not the last; another shall be thine equal, and to
him shall come the like [fortune and station].

31.  Bend thy back unto thy chief, thine overseer in the King's palace, for thine house dependeth
upon his wealth, and thy wages in their season.  How foolish is one that quarrelleth with his
chief, for one liveth only while he is gracious....

Plunder not the houses of tenants; neither steal the things of a friend, lest he accuse thee
in thine hearing, which thrusteth back the heart.[17]  If he know of it, he will do thee an
injury.  Quarrelling in place of friendship is a foolish thing.

{55}

32.  [Concerning continence].

33.  If thou wouldest seek out the nature of a friend, ask it not of any companion of his;
but pass a time with him alone, that thou injure not his affairs.  Debate with him after a
season; test his heart in an occasion of speech.  When he hath told thee his past life, he
hath made an opportunity that thou may either be ashamed for him or be familiar with him. 
Be not reserved with him when he openeth speech, neither answer him after a scornful manner.
Withdraw not thyself from him, neither interrupt (?) him whose matter is not yet ended, whom
it is possible to benefit.

34.  Let thy face be bright what time thou livest.  That which goeth into the storehouse must
come out therefrom; and bread is to be shared. He that is grasping in entertainment shall himself
have an empty belly; he that causeth strife cometh himself to sorrow.  Take not such an one
for thy companion.  It is a man's kindly acts that are remembered of him in the years after
his life.[18]

35.  Know well thy merchants; for when thine affairs are in evil case, thy good repute among
thy friends is a channel (?) which is filled.  It is more important than the dignities of a
man; and {56} the wealth of one passeth to another.  The good repute of a man's son is a glory
unto him; and a good character is for remembrance.

36.  Correct chiefly; instruct conformably [therewith].  Vice must be drawn out, that virtue
may remain.  Nor is this a matter of misfortune, for one that is a gainsayer becometh a strife-maker.

37.  If thou make a woman to be ashamed, wanton of heart, one known by her townsfolk to be
falsely placed, be kind unto her for a space, send her not away, give her to eat.  The wantonness
of her heart shall esteem thy guidance.

C.  If thou obey these things that I have said unto thee, all thy demeanour shall be of the
best; for, verily, the quality of truth is among their excellences.  Set the memory of them
in the mouths of the people; for their proverbs are good.  Nor shall any word that hath here
been set down cease out of this land for ever, but shall be made a pattern whereby princes
shall speak well.  They (my words) shall instruct a man; how he shall speak, after he hath
heard them; yea, he shall become as one skilful in obeying, excellent in speaking, after he
hath heard them.  Good fortune shall befall him, for he shall be of the highest rank.  He shall
be gracious to the end of his life; he shall be {57} contented always.  His knowledge shall
be his guide (?) into a place of security, wherein he shall prosper while on earth.  The scholar[19]
shall be content in his knowledge.  As to the prince, in his turn, forsooth, his heart shall
be happy, his tongue made straight. And [in these proverbs] his lips shall speak, his eyes
shall see, and his ears shall hear, that which is profitable for his son, so that he deal justly,
void of deceit.

38.  A splendid thing is the obedience of an obedient son; he cometh in and listeneth obediently.

Excellent in hearing, excellent in speaking, is every man that obeyeth what is noble; and the
obedience of an obeyer is a noble thing.

Obedience is better than all things that are; it maketh good-will.

How good it is that a son should take that from his father by which he hath reached old age
(Obedience).

That which is desired by the God is obedience; disobedience is abhorred of the God.

Verily, it is the heart that maketh its master to obey or to disobey; for the safe and sound
life of a man are his heart.

It is the obedient man that obeyeth what is said; he that loveth to obey, the same shall carry
out commands.

{58}

He that obeyeth becometh one obeyed.

It is good indeed when a son obeyeth his father; and he (his father) that hath spoken hath
great joy of it.  Such a son shall be mild as a master, and he that heareth him shall obey
him that hath spoken.  He shall be comely in body and honoured by his father.  His memory shall
be in the mouths of the living, those upon earth, as long as they exist.[20]

39.  Let a son receive the word of his father, not being heedless of any rule of his.  Instruct
thy son [thus]; for the obedient man is one that is perfect in the opinion of princes.  If
he direct his mouth by what hath been enjoined him, watchful and obedient, thy son shall be
wise, and his goings seemly.  Heedlessness leadeth unto disobedience on the morrow; but understanding
shall stablish him.  As for the fool, he shall be crushed.

40.  As for the fool, devoid of obedience, he doeth nothing.  Knowledge he regardeth as ignorance,
profitable things as hurtful things.  He doeth all kind of errors, so that he is rebuked therefor
every day.  He liveth in death {59} therewith; it is his food.  At chattering speech he marvelleth,
as at the wisdom of princes, living in death every day. He is shunned because of his misfortunes,
by reason of the multitude of afflictions that cometh upon him every day.

41.  A son that hearkeneth is as a Follower of Horus.[21]  He is good after he hearkeneth;
he groweth old, he reacheth honour and reverence. He repeateth in like manner to his sons and
daughters, so renewing the instruction of his father.  Each man instructeth as did his begetter,
repeating it unto his children.  Let them [in turn] speak with their sons and daughters, that
they may be famous in their deeds.  Let that which thou speakest implant true things and just
in the life of thy children.  Then the highest authority shall arrive, and sins depart [from
them].  And such men as see these things shall say, 'Surely that man hath spoken to good purpose,'
and they shall do likewise; or, 'But surely that man was experienced.'  And all people shall
declare, 'It is they that shall direct the multitude; dignities are not complete without them.'

Take not any word away, neither add one; {60} set not one in the place of another.  Beware
of opening...[22] in thyself.

Be wary of speech when a learned man hearkeneth unto thee; desire to be stablished for good
in the mouth of those that hear thee speaking.  If thou have entered as an expert, speak with
exact (?) lips, that thy conduct may be seemly.

42.  Be thine heart overflowing; but refrain thy mouth.  Let thy conduct be exact while amongst
nobles, and seemly before thy lord, doing that which he hath commanded.  Such a son shall speak
unto them that hearken to him; moreover, his begetter shall be favoured.  Apply thine heart,
what time thou speakest, to saying things such that the nobles who listen declare, 'How excellent
is that which cometh out of his mouth!'

