I think it may be now fairly taken for granted that, as this society has, from the outset,
promoted and pointed to the higher scientific perfection of the microscope, so now, more than
ever, it is its special function to place this in the forefront as its raison d'etre. The microscope
has been long enough in the hands of amateur and expert alike to establish itself as an instrument
having an application to every actual and conceivable department of human research; and while
in the earliest days of this society it was possible for a zealous Fellow to have seen, and
been more or less familiar with, all the applications to which it then had been put, it is
different to-day. Specialists in the most diverse areas of research are assiduously applying
the instrument to their various subjects, and with results that, if we would estimate aright,
we must survey with instructed vision the whole ground which advancing science covers.

From this it is manifest that this society cannot hope to infold, or at least to organically
bind to itself, men whose objects of research are so diverse.

But these are all none the less linked by one inseverable bond; it is the microscope; and while,
amid the inconceivable diversity of its applications, it remains manifest that this society
has for its primary object the constant progress of the instrument--whether in its mechanical
construction or its optical appliances; whether the improvements shall bear upon the use of
high powers or low powers; whether it shall be improvement that shall apply to its commercial
employment, its easier professional application, or its most exalted scientific use; so long
as this shall be the undoubted aim of the Royal Microscopical Society, its existence may well
be the pride of Englishmen, and will commend itself more and more to men of all countries.

This, and this only, can lift such a society out of what I believe has ceased to be its danger,
that of forgetting that in proportion as the optical principles of the microscope are understood,
and the theory of microscopical vision is made plain, the value of the instrument over every
region to which it can be applied, and in all the varied hands that use it, is increased without
definable limit. It is therefore by such means that the true interests of science are promoted.

It is one of the most admirable features of this society that it has become cosmopolitan in
its character in relation to the instrument, and all the ever-improving methods of research
employed with it. From meeting to meeting it is not one country, or one continent even, that
is represented on our tables. Nay, more, not only are we made familiar with improvements brought
from every civilized part of the world, referring alike to the microscope itself and every
instrument devised by specialists for its employment in every department of research; but also,
by the admirable persistence of Mr. Crisp and Mr. Jno. Mayall, Jr., we are familiarized with
every discovery of the old forms of the instrument wherever found or originally employed.

The value of all this cannot be overestimated, for it will, even where prejudices as to our
judgment may exist, gradually make it more and more clear that this society exists to promote
and acknowledge improvements in every constituent of the microscope, come from whatever source
they may; and, in connection with this, to promote by demonstrations, exhibitions, and monographs
the finest applications of the finest instruments for their respective purposes.

To give all this its highest value, of course, the theoretical side of our instrument must
occupy the attention of the most accomplished experts. We may not despair that our somewhat
too practical past in this respect may right itself in our own country; but meantime the splendid
work of German students and experts is placed by the wise editors of our journal within the
reach of all.

I know of no higher hope for this important society than that it may continue in ever increasing
strength to promote, criticise, and welcome from every quarter of the world whatever will improve
the microscope in itself and in any of its applications, from the most simple to the most complex
and important in which its employment is possible.

There are two points of some practical interest to which I desire for a few moments to call
your attention. The former has reference to the group of organisms to which I have for so many
years directed your attention, viz., the "monads," which throughout I have called "putrefactive
organisms."

There can be no longer any doubt that the destructive process of putrefaction is essentially
a process of fermentation.

The fermentative saprophyte is as absolutely essential to the setting up of destructive rotting
or putrescence in a putrescible fluid as the torula is to the setting up of alcoholic fermentation
in a saccharine fluid. Make the presence of torulæ impossible, and you exclude with certainty
fermentative action.

In precisely the same way, provide a proteinaceous solution, capable of the highest putrescence,
but absolutely sterilized, and placed in an optically pure or absolutely calcined air; and
while these conditions are maintained, no matter what length of time may be suffered to elapse,
the putrescible fluid will remain absolutely without trace of decay.

But suffer the slightest infection of the protected and pure air to take place, or, from some
putrescent source, inoculate your sterilized fluid with the minutest atom, and shortly turbidity,
offensive scent, and destructive putrescence ensue.

As in the alcoholic, lactic, or butyric ferments, the process set up is shown to be dependent
upon and concurrent with the vegetative processes of the demonstrated organisms characterizing
these ferments; so it can be shown with equal clearness and certainty that the entire process
of what is known as putrescence is equally and as absolutely dependent on the vital processes
of a given and discoverable series of organisms.

Now it is quite customary to treat the fermentative agency in putrefaction as if it were wholly
bacterial, and, indeed, the putrefactive group of bacteria are now known as saprophytes, or
saprophytic bacteria, as distinct from morphologically similar, but physiologically dissimilar,
forms known as parasitic or pathogenic bacteria.

It is indeed usually and justly admitted that B. termo is the exciting cause of fermentative
putrefaction. Cohn has in fact contended that it is the distinctive ferment of all putrefactions,
and that it is to decomposing proteinaceous solutions what Torula cerevisiæ is to the fermenting
fluids containing sugar.

In a sense, this is no doubt strictly true: it is impossible to find a decomposing proteinaceous
solution, at any stage, without finding this form in vast abundance.

But it is well to remember that in nature putrefactive ferments must go on to an extent rarely
imitated or followed in the laboratory. As a rule, the pabulum in which the saprophytic organisms
are provided and "cultured" is infusions, or extracts of meat carefully filtered, and, if vegetable
matter is used, extracts of fruit, treated with equal care, and if needful neutralized, are
used in a similar way. To these may be added all the forms of gelatine, employed in films,
masses and so forth.

But in following the process of destructive fermentation as it takes place in large masses
of tissue, animal or vegetable, but far preferably the former, as they lie in water at a constant
temperature of from 60° to 65° F., it will be seen that the fermentative process is the work,
not of one organism, nor, judging by the standard of our present knowledge, of one specified
class of vegetative forms, but by organisms which, though related to each other, are in many
respects greatly dissimilar, not only morphologically, but also embryologically, and even physiologically.

Moreover, although this is a matter that will want most thorough and efficient inquiry and
research to understand properly its conditions, yet it is sufficiently manifest that these
organisms succeed each other in a curious and even remarkable manner. Each does a part in the
work of fermentative destruction; each aids in splitting up into lower and lower compounds
the elements of which the masses of degrading tissue are composed; while, apparently, each
set in turn does by vital action, coupled with excretion, (1) take up the substances necessary
for its own growth and multiplication; (2) carry on the fermentative process; and (3) so change
the immediate pabulum as to give rise to conditions suitable for its immediate successor. Now
the point of special interest is that there is an apparent adaptation in the form, functions,
mode of multiplication, and order of succession in these fermentative organisms, deserving
study and fraught with instruction.

Let it be remembered that the aim of nature in this fermentative action is not the partial
splitting of certain organic compounds, and their reconstruction in simpler conditions, but
the ultimate setting free, by saprophytic action, of the elements locked up in great masses
of organic tissue--the sending back into nature of the only material of which future organic
structures are to be composed.

I have said that there can be no question whatever that Bacterium termo is the pioneer of saprophytes.
Exclude B. termo (and therefore with it all its congeners), and you can obtain no putrefaction.
But wherever, in ordinary circumstances, a decomposable organic mass, say the body of a fish,
or a considerable mass of the flesh of a terrestrial animal, is exposed in water at a temperature
of 60° to 65° F., B. termo rapidly appears, and increases with a simply astounding rapidity.
It clothes the tissues like a skin, and diffuses itself throughout the fluid.

The exact chemical changes it thus effects are not at present clearly known; but the fermentative
action is manifestly concurrent with its multiplication. It finds its pabulum in the mass it
ferments by its vegetative processes. But it also produces a visible change in the enveloping
fluid, and noxious gases continuously are thrown off.

In the course of a week or more, dependent on the period of the year, there is, not inevitably,
but as a rule, a rapid accession of spiral forms, such as Spirillum volutans, S. undula, and
similar forms, often accompanied by Bacterium lineola; and the whole interspersed still with
inconceivable multitudes of B. termo.

These invest the rotting tissues liked an elastic garment, but are always in a state of movement.
These, again, manifestly further the destructive ferment, and bring about a softness and flaccidity
in the decomposing tissues, while they without doubt, at the same time, have, by their vital
activity and possible secretions, affected the condition of the changing organic mass. There
can be, so far as my observations go, no certainty as to when, after this, another form of
organism will present itself; nor, when it does, which of a limited series it will be. But,
in a majority of observed cases, a loosening of the living investment of bacterial forms takes
place, and simultaneously with this, the access of one or two forms of my putrefactive monads.
They were among the first we worked at; and have been, by means of recent lenses, among the
last revised. Mr. S. Kent named them Cercomonas typica and Monas dallingeri respectively. They
are both simple oval forms, but the former has a flagellum at both ends of the longer axis
of the body, while the latter has a single flagellum in front.

The principal difference is in their mode of multiplication by fission. The former is in every
way like a bacterium in its mode of self-division. It divides, acquiring for each half a flagellum
in division, and then, in its highest vigor, in about four minutes, each half divides again.

The second form does not divide into two, but into many, and thus although the whole process
is slower, develops with greater rapidity. But both ultimately multiply--that is, commence
new generations--by the equivalent of a sexual process.

These would average about four times the size of Bacterium termo; and when once they gain a
place on and about the putrefying tissues, their relatively powerful and incessant action,
their enormous multitude, and the manner in which they glide over, under, and beside each other,
as they invest the fermenting mass, is worthy of close study. It has been the life history
of these organisms, and not their relations as ferment, that has specially occupied my fullest
attention; but it would be in a high degree interesting if we could discover, or determine,
what besides the vegetative or organic processes of nutrition are being effected by one, or
both, of these organisms on the fast yielding mass. Still more would it be of interest to discover
what, if any, changes were wrought in the pabulum, or fluid generally. For after some extended
observations I have found that it is only after one or other or both, of these organisms have
performed their part in the destructive ferment, that subsequent and extremely interesting
changes arise.

It is true that in some three or four instances of this saprophytic destruction of organic
tissues, I have observed that, after the strong bacterial investment, there has arisen, not
the two forms just named, nor either of them, but one or other of the striking forms now called
Tetramitus rostratus and Polytoma uvella; but this has been in relatively few instances. The
rule is that Cercomonas typica or its congener precedes other forms, that not only succeed
them in promoting and carrying to a still further point the putrescence of the fermenting substance,
but appear to be aided in the accomplishment of this by mechanical means.

By this time the mass of tissue has ceased to cohere. The mass has largely disintegrated, and
there appears among the countless bacterial and monad forms some one, and sometimes even three
forms, that while they at first swim and gyrate, and glide about the decomposing matter, which
is now much less closely invested by Cercomonas typica, or those organisms that may have acted
in its place, they also resort to an entirely new mode of movement.

One of these forms is Heteromita rostrata, which, it will be remembered, in addition to a front
flagellum, has also a long fiber or flagellum-like appendage that gracefully trails as it swims.
At certain periods of its life they anchor themselves in countless billions all over the fermenting
tissues, and as I have described in the life history of this form, they coil their anchored
fiber, as does a vorticellan, bringing the body to the level of the point of anchorage, then
shoot out the body with lightning-like rapidity, and bring it down like a hammer on some point
of the decomposition. It rests here for a second or two, and repeats the process; and this
is taking place by what seems almost like rhythmic movement all over the rotting tissue. The
results are scarcely visible in the mass. But if a group of these organisms be watched, attached
to a small particle of the fermenting tissue, it will be seen to gradually diminish, and at
length to disappear.

Now, there are at least two other similar forms, one of which, Heteromita uncinata, is similar
in action, and the other of which, Dallingeria drysdali, is much more powerful, being possessed
of a double anchor, and springing down upon the decadent mass with relatively far greater power.

Now, it is under the action of these last forms that in a period varying from one month to
two or three the entire substance of the organic tissues disappears, and the decomposition
has been designated by me "exhausted"; nothing being left in the vessel but slightly noxious
and pale gray water, charged with carbonic acid, and a fine, buff colored, impalpable sediment
at the bottom.

My purpose is not, by this brief notice, to give an exhaustive, or even a sufficient account,
of the progress of fermentative action, by means of saprophytic organisms, on great masses
of tissue; my observations have been incidental, but they lead me to the conclusion that the
fermentative process is not only not carried through by what are called saprophytic bacteria,
but that a series of fermentative organisms arise, which succeed each other, the earlier ones
preparing the pabulum or altering the surrounding medium, so as to render it highly favorable
to a succeeding form. On the other hand, the succeeding form has a special adaptation for carrying
on the fermentative destruction more efficiently from the period at which it arises, and thus
ultimately of setting free the chemical elements locked up in dead organic compounds.

That these later organisms are saprophytic, although not bacterial, there can be no doubt.
A set of experiments, recorded by me in the proceedings of this society some years since, would
go far to establish this (Monthly Microscopical Journal, 1876, p. 288). But it may be readily
shown, by extremely simple experiments, that these forms will set up fermentative decomposition
rapidly if introduced in either a desiccated or living condition, or in the spore state, into
suitable but sterilized pabulum.

Thus while we have specific ferments which bring about definite and specific results, and while
even infusions of proteid substances may be exhaustively fermented by saprophytic bacteria,
the most important of all ferments, that by which nature's dead organic masses are removed,
is one which there is evidence to show is brought about by the successive vital activities
of a series of adapted organisms, which are forever at work in every region of the earth.

There is one other matter of some interest and moment on which I would say a few words. To
thoroughly instructed biologists, such words will be quite needless; but, in a society of this
kind, the possibilities that lie in the use of the instrument are associated with the contingency
of large error, especially in the biology of the minuter forms of life, unless a well grounded
biological knowledge form the basis of all specific inference, to say nothing of deduction.

I am the more encouraged to speak of the difficulty to which I refer, because I have reason
to know that it presents itself again and again in the provincial societies of the country,
and is often adhered to with a tenacity worthy of a better cause. I refer to the danger that
always exists, that young or occasional observers are exposed to, amid the complexities of
minute animal and vegetable life, of concluding that they have come upon absolute evidences
of the transformation of one minute form into another; that in fact they have demonstrated
cases of heterogenesis.

This difficulty is not diminished by the fact that on the shelves of most microscopical societies
there is to be found some sort of literature written in support of this strange doctrine.

You will pardon me for allusion again to the field of inquiry in which I have spent so many
happy hours. It is, as you know, a region of life in which we touch, as it were, the very margin
of living things. If nature were capricious anywhere, we might expect to find her so here.
If her methods were in a slovenly or only half determined condition, we might expect to find
it here. But it is not so. Know accurately what you are doing, use the precautions absolutely
essential, and through years of the closest observation it will be seen that the vegetative
and vital processes generally, of the very simplest and lowliest life forms, are as much directed
and controlled by immutable laws as the most complex and elevated.

The life cycles, accurately known, of monads repeat themselves as accurately as those of rotifers
or planarians.

And of course, on the very surface of the matter, the question presents itself to the biologist
why it should not be so. The irrefragable philosophy of modern biology is that the most complex
forms of living creatures have derived their splendid complexity and adaptations from the slow
and majestically progressive variation and survival from the simpler and the simplest forms.
If, then, the simplest forms of the present and the past were not governed by accurate and
unchanging laws of life, how did the rigid certainties that manifestly and admittedly govern
the more complex and the most complex come into play?

If our modern philosophy of biology be, as we know it is, true, then it must be very strong
evidence indeed that would lead us to conclude that the laws seen to be universal break down
and cease accurately to operate where the objects become microscopic, and our knowledge of
them is by no means full, exhaustive, and clear.

Moreover, looked at in the abstract, it is a little difficult to conceive why there should
be more uncertainty about the life processes of a group of lowly living things than there should
be about the behavior, in reaction, of a given group of molecules.

The triumph of modern knowledge is the certainty, which nothing can shake, that nature's laws
are immutable. The stability of her processes, the precision of her action, and the universality
of her laws, is the basis of all science, to which biology forms no exception. Once establish,
by clear and unmistakable demonstration, the life history of an organism, and truly some change
must have come over nature as a whole, if that life history be not the same to-morrow as to-day;
and the same to one observer, in the same conditions, as to another.

No amount of paradox would induce us to believe that the combining proportions of hydrogen
and oxygen had altered, in a specified experimenter's hands, in synthetically producing water.

We believe that the melting point of platinum and the freezing point of mercury are the same
as they were a hundred years ago, and as they will be a hundred years hence.

Now, carefully remember that so far as we can see at all, it must be so with life. Life inheres
in protoplasm; but just as you cannot get abstract matter--that is, matter with no properties
or modes of motion--so you cannot get abstract protoplasm. Every piece of living protoplasm
we see has a history; it is the inheritor of countless millions of years. Its properties have
been determined by its history. It is the protoplasm of some definite form of life which has
inherited its specific history. It can be no more false to that inheritance than an atom of
oxygen can be false to its properties.

All this, of course, within the lines of the great secular processes of the Darwinian laws;
which, by the way, could not operate at all if caprice formed any part of the activities of nature.

But let me give a practical instance of how what appears like fact may override philosophy,
if an incident, or even a group of incidents, per se are to control our judgment.

Eighteen years ago I was paying much attention to vorticellæ. I was observing with some pertinacity
Vorticella convallaria; for one of the calices in a group under observation was in a strange
and semi-encysted state, while the remainder were in full normal activity.

I watched with great interest and care, and have in my folio still the drawings made at the
time. The stalk carrying this individual calyx fell upon the branch of vegetable matter to
which the vorticellan was attached, and the calyx became perfectly globular; and at length
there emerged from it a small form with which, in this condition, I was quite unfamiliar; it
was small, tortoise-like in form, and crept over the branch on setæ or hair-like pedicels;
but, carefully followed, I found it soon swam, and at length got the long neck-like appendage
of Amphileptus anser!

Here then was the cup or calyx of a definite vorticellan form changing into (?) an absolutely
different infusorian, viz., Amphileptus anser!

Now I simply reported the fact to the Liverpool Microscopical Society, with no attempt at inference;
but two years after I was able to explain the mystery, for, finding in the same pond both V.
convallaria and A. anser, I carefully watched their movements, and saw the Amphileptus seize
and struggle with a calyx of convallaria, and absolutely become encysted upon it, with the
results that I had reported two years before.

And there can be no doubt but this is the key to the cases that come to us again and again
of minute forms suddenly changing into forms wholly unlike. It is happily among the virtues
of the man of science to "rejoice in the truth," even though it be found at his expense; and
true workers, earnest seekers for nature's methods, in the obscurest fields of her action,
will not murmur that this source of danger to younger microscopists has been pointed out, or
recalled to them.

And now I bid you, as your president, farewell. It has been all pleasure to me to serve you.
It has enlarged my friendships and my interests, and although my work has linked me with the
society for many years, I have derived much profit from this more organic union with it; and
it is a source of encouragement to me, and will, I am sure, be to you, that, after having done
with simple pleasure what I could, I am to be succeeded in this place of honor by so distinguished
a student of the phenomena of minute life as Dr. Hudson. I can but wish him as happy a tenure
of office as mine has been.

       *       *       *       *       *

INQUIRIES REGARDING THE INCUBATOR.

P.H. JACOBS.

Space in the Rural is valuable, and so important a subject as artificial incubation cannot
perhaps be made entirely plain to a novice in a few articles; but as interested parties have
written for additional information, it may interest others to answer them here. Among the questions
asked are: "Does the incubator described in the Rural dispense entirely with the use of a lamp,
using at intervals a bucket of water to maintain proper temperature? I fear this will not be
satisfactory unless the incubator is kept in a warm room or cellar."

