  Abate your skill, so shall my nerves grow firmer,
    Till driving seems the easiest of jobs,
  And passers-by shall pause and haply murmur,
          "Golly, can that be HOBBS?"

  Do this for me, and you'll discover later
    How fame awaits the generous and good;
  A few long hops shall win a glory greater
          Than ever break-back could.

  If for a ball or two you let me smite you,
    Running amok with dashing bat and bold,
  My Muse shall have instructions to requite you
          Even an hundredfold.

  You shall she hymn in strains that do not falter,
    Proclaim of you for all who run to read:--
  "He sacrificed his length on friendship's altar;
          He was a pal indeed."

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR THE CHILDREN.

At this season, when their own children are already counting the days that lie between them
and their holidays, Mr. Punch appeals to his kind readers not to forget the greater needs of
the children in our elementary schools. The cost of sending them away to the sea or countryside
for fresh air and change of scene is constantly increasing and the Children's Country Holidays
Fund cannot keep up its good work without generous help. There can be no better way of making
a Peace-offering than by helping to build up the health and strength of the new generation.
Mr. Punch begs that liberal gifts may be sent to the Secretary of the Fund at 18, Buckingham
Street, Strand, W.C.2.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCENES FROM OUR GREAT FILM: "AUDACITY DOWN THE AGES."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE HIGH C.'S.

  Doubtless you have often heard
  Of the thrush, that gladsome bird,
  Who will warble any day,
  Be it cold or wet or gray.
  I suppose her mother taught her
  That the worms are fond of water,
  So that neither sleet nor slush
  Bridles that eupeptic thrush.

  Such a one was Johnny Carr
  (Sub-Lieutenant R.N.R.).
  I have never caught him yet
  Out of sorts when it was wet;
  He will hum when tempests howl,
  Whistle midst the thunder's growl,
  And I've seen him sing for joy,
  Clinging to a punctured buoy,
  While his gallant T.B.D.
  Sank beside him in the sea.

  No one knows exactly when or
  Why he came to call it tenor,
  But the fact remains he sang
  With a subtle nasal twang
  Just because he liked to do so
  (He was Carr, but not CARUSO),
  And with such a force of lung
  That, whatever tune he sung,
  It was like a projectile
  With a range of twenty mile.

  'Twas the thirty-first of May.
  On that memorable day,
  Flitting like a restless ghost
  Somewhere off the Danish coast,
  His destroyer, all agog,
  Butted through the clinging fog,
  When for just a space the gray
  Mists of morning rolled away.
  Ah! but how their pulses beat
  When they saw the High Seas Fleet
  Nosing noiseless as a dream
  Barely half-a-mile abeam;
  Then the filmy mists anew
  Blotted everything from view.
  John, astounded at the sight,
  Sang aloud with all his might.

  But the German, seeing nought,
  Only hearing what he thought
  Must be twelve-inch guns at least
  Firing at him from the East,
  Felt that it was time to hook it,
  Saw his chance and boldly took it.

  Northward fast he sailed once more
  Till he heard the Lion roar,
  And before he could retreat he
  Found himself engaged with BEATTY,
  Who, as you already know,
  Led him on to JELLICOE.
  There I leave him, for, you see,
  All the rest is history.

  All the rest?  Well, not quite all;
  For perhaps you may recall
  How, when night was falling fast,
  A reverberating blast
  Far away was dimly heard
  Which, the sailormen averred,
  Was the Germans who had strayed
  In amongst the mines we laid.

  They were wrong. The fighting over,
  Johnny's ship returned to Dover,
  And the sound they heard afar
  Was the jocund voice of Carr
  Singing fit to burst his torso,
  Like the song-thrush (only more so).

       *       *       *       *       *

    "ROYAL ARMY MEDICAL CORPS FUND.--At the Savoy Hotel, on June 11, at
    8 p.m. Service dress--khaki with trousers--or evening dress, with
    miniatures."--Times.

The price of clothes was bound to lead to something of this sort.

       *       *       *       *       *

From an article on "The Representative Man":--

    "Gladstone and John Bright alike came out of Lancashire. How natural
    to fmgeine etther of those startling ogposites proclaiming with
    entire conviction, that when he samped himself he foundthimself to
    be a 'Typical Englishman.' The diversity of types however does not
    help us much."--Indian Paper.

True, we find it most confusing.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUFF UNIVERSAL.

    ["A Father," writing in The Times of June 10th, protests
    vigorously against the cult of "powdered noses."]

  When the deadly sky-rover
  Came frequently over
    And London was darkened at night,
  Girls powdered their noses
  (Or so one supposes)
    As lamp-posts were painted with white;
  But now when full moons
  Bring no bombs or maroons,
    I ask is it proper or right?

  Amanda's complexion
  Will challenge inspection--
    'Tis healthy and rosy and fine;
  But she says that if powder
  Were never allowed her
    Her nose would infallibly shine.
  Did Victorian Flossie
  Or Gladys, when glossy
    Of nose, to such methods incline?
  No, they patiently scrubbed it,
  Rough-towelled and rubbed it
    Until it was brought into line.

  We have long been acquainted
  With ladies who painted
    To mimic a juvenile mien;
  But I'd ban sans compassion
  The powdering fashion
    When practised by sweet seventeen;
  And I wish that wise mothers
  And sensible brothers
    Would let their abhorrence be seen.

  I'm only "a father,"
  Old-fashioned and rather
    Deficient in stiffness of spine,
  So, feeling unequal
  To facing the sequel,
    My name I'm unwilling to sign;
  For the call for more powder
  Grows stronger and louder
    From every daughter of mine,
  And any restriction
  Of puffs or nose-friction
    Would end in a general "shine."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR MOVIE-MINISTERS.

(Deductions by a Political Expert.)

The admirable plan of transplanting Ministers admittedly doing excellent work in their departments
just as they are settling down in the saddle, though generally commended by supporters of the
Government, is meeting with a certain amount of criticism. Appointments which show "imagination"
are, it is urged, shorn of their possibilities when the holders are moved on just when they
are beginning to provide the public with sensation.

Speculations are rife as to the appointment of a new Minister of Education, and the best-informed
opinion inclines to the view that Sir ERIC GEDDES, who has occupied his present position for
quite a number of weeks, will succeed Mr. FISHER. Some experts however hold that the PREMIER
has a magnificent opportunity for displaying his imagination by the choice of Mr. WELLS, who
is burning to disprove the recent astounding allegation of General WILSON that the War could
not have been won without the Universities. The chief objection to Mr. WELLS, however, is that
he cannot be transferred, because he is not already in office; and this drawback also operates
in the case of Mr. SMILLIE and Mr. BOTTOMLEY.

In this context it is to be noted that Lord READING (so at least we understand from the peculiarly
plaintive smile which he wears in recent photographs) is much disappointed that the claims
of Mr. T.P. O'CONNOR to the post of Ambassador at Washington have so far failed of due recognition.
American antagonism over the Irish Question has not been conciliated by this strange oversight.

       *       *       *       *       *

THINGS THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORDED DIFFERENTLY.

From the official organ of the Surplus Government Property Disposal Board:

    "Sales by Auction of Surplus Horses by arrangement with the Food
    Production Department of the Board of Agriculture."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A grand Mahogany Bedstead, 9-1/2' x 8', with posts and testers
    complete, meant for Rajas and Zemindars. Can also accommodate 4
    middle-class people comfortably. Going for Rs. 500."--Advt. in
    Indian Paper.

Mr. KENNEDY JONES will kindly call the attention of the Middle Classes Union to this proposed
congestion.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROOFS OF THE MIGHTY.

At the meeting held recently in the hall of the Worshipful Company of Hatters in Tile Street,
the Chair was taken jointly (as in the old monarchical days at Brentford) by the Bishop of
LINCOLN and Mr. ARNOLD BENNETT, and among the company were the SPEAKER, Lord RIBBLESDALE, Sir
SQUIRE BANCROFT, Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL and Mr. EUGENE CORRI.

The two Chairmen, speaking almost in unison, stated that the meeting had been convened in order
that the views of the enlightened might be gathered regarding the proposed revival of the tall
hat or topper. A recrudescence of this form of covering for the hair (or otherwise) was threatened
under the name of the Victory Derby, and a paragraph in The Times announced that "so remarkable
has been the revival in the silk-hat trade that old men who had gone into retirement in the
Denton and Stockport districts are being asked to come back and give what productive energy
they possess." What the meeting desired to ascertain was the views as to this revival that
were held by those empowered to offer opinions.

Lord RIBBLESDALE said that there was no doubt that a tall hat was the most becoming headgear
for a gentleman. But a certain regard for idiosyncracies was important. No gentleman should
take without scrutiny what the hatter offered. Hats were individual things, and as the character
changed and developed so should the hat. The hat that suited one at forty might be a sad anachronism
at fifty. He himself had endeavoured not only to make his life correspond to his hats, but
his hats correspond to his life. (Loud applause.) As the Master of the Buck-hounds he wore,
as any visitor to the National Gallery at the present moment might see, at the head of the
staircase on the left, a tall hat that was slightly lower than that which he wore to-day, now
that he had relinquished that responsible and romantic post. He urged his hearers to encourage
the silk hat revival.

Sir SQUIRE BANCROFT concurred with the illustrious nobleman who had just spoken. The choice
of a hat should be the subject of the most earnest thought, even of prayer. (Cheers.) Not only
the shape but the colour. There were hats that were black and hats that were white. (Shouts
of "Hurrah!") There were even white hats with black trimming. (Sensation.) The older he grew
the more convinced he was that an Englishman's hat was his castle.

Miss DAISY ASHFORD, author of The Young Visiters, said that she was all in favour of the top
hat. No one who had read her famous novel could doubt that. In the society of Mr. Salteena
and his friends to wear a tall hat was always the idear.

Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL said that none of the speakers had mentioned the most essential desideratum
of a hat, and that was that it should be too small. Whether it began by being too small, or
became in time too small, depended upon the wearer; but there was something smug and cowardly
about a hat that fitted. It suggested failure.

Mr. H.B. IRVING said that he was an impenitent advocate of the soft or Southern hat. It was
the duty of a hat to afford not only covering for the head but shelter for the eyes, and no
topper did this. A hat should have a flexible brim, which neither topper nor bowler possessed.
It was absurd to wear a hat which could not sustain damage without showing it. Let there be
a revival in the silk-hat industry by all means, but there must be no imposition of any one
kind of hat on the public. The individual must be allowed perfect freedom to wear what he liked.
(Hear, hear!) He personally hoped never to be seen either in a pith helmet or a Tam-o'-shanter,
but if the whim took him to wear either--or indeed both--he claimed the right to do so. (Loud
cheers.) Meanwhile he should adhere to his soft hat.

Mr. MASKELYNE, who followed, urged upon the company the desirability of the silk-hat mode.
If tall hats, he said, went out of fashion, what would become of conjurers? Rabbits could be
satisfactorily extracted only from tall hats. (Prolonged cheering.) An omelette made in a sombrero
was unthinkable. (Renewed cheering.)

Mr. ARNOLD BENNETT said that all this talk about toppers was pernicious nonsense. The topper
had become obsolete and should not be disinterred. The only honest form of hat for an honest
straightforward man was a white bowler. A white bowler and a blue serge suit made as stylish
and effective a garb as anyone needed. Soft hats no doubt were comfortable, but they were also
slovenly. Moreover they were not practical. At a horse sale, for example, you could not rattle
them. As for the plea that tall hats were of value to conjurers, he had no use for such arguments.
Conjurers dealt in illusion and all illusion was retrograde. (Oh! Oh!).

The Bishop of LINCOLN said that he felt bound to dissociate himself from his, partner's remarks.
He himself looked upon a silk hat as an essential. (A voice, "With rigging?") Yes, Sir, with
rigging. But that was not why he advocated it. He advocated it because it was the proper coping-stone
of a gentleman.

The SPEAKER, after eulogising the white tall hat, added that although he was glad that they
had Sir SQUIRE BANCROFT with them (Hear, hear) he was bound to remark that not infrequently
of late he had seen that illustrious histrion wearing in the streets of London a cloth cap
more suitable to the golf-links or the Highlands. For the devotee of the white hat of a blameless
life thus to descend gave him pain. So distinguished an edifice as Sir SQUIRE, he contended,
should not trifle with its top-storey. (Cheers.)

Sir SQUIRE BANCROFT, rising again, expressed regret that his cloth cap should have caused any
distress, He wore it, he was bound to admit, for convenience (Oh!) and comfort (Sensation).
But he would not offend again. (Loud cheers.)

At this point the meeting adjourned, but doubtless, taking a hint from the Coal inquiry, it
will often be resumed during the coming year.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "I Zingari will play a Household Cavalry team at Windsor on
    Saturday, June 21st. This was in years gone by an annual fixture,
    finishing up Ascot week. King Edward VI., when Prince of Wales, used
    to attend the match and go on to Virginia Water afterwards."--Local
    Paper.

Apart from the interest this paragraph will excite in the historians of the Army, the Turf,
and the Cricket-field, it shows that HENRY VIII. must have been a more indulgent father than
is generally suspected.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"L'AIGLON."

In a note given away with the programme Mr. LOUIS N. PARKER, describes L'Aiglon as "the Hamlet
of the nineteenth century." Certainly they had in common the habits of introspection, and indecision;
but the egoism of Hamlet was at least tempered by a knowledge of the world; he was a student;
he had travelled and seen men and things outside the bounds of Elsinore; and he was capable
of throwing off some quotable generalities out of his stock of philosophy. On the other hand
the Eaglet, mewed in his Austrian cage, knew nothing of life at large, and had small chance
of learning anything beyond the bowdlerised history which his tutors and warders thought good
to have him stuffed with.

Somehow he had contrived surreptitiously to pick up the dates and leading facts of his father's
campaigns (making a speciality of the Battle of Wagram), but the vague ambitions which they
inspired only helped his little mind to prey upon itself. It was not "the times" (as with Hamlet)
but his own nose that he found to be "out of joint."

The appeal of Hamlet is to the intelligence; that of L'Aiglon, so obviously pathetic in his
own eyes, is rather to the heart. Indeed the intelligence of the audience is here often in
trouble; for a certain acquaintance with history is required and both actors and stage-management
offer little aid to the average ignorance. While the more obvious and melodramatic situations--such
as the death of L'Aiglon or the business of the sentry--are treated at great leisure, it is
assumed that all historical allusions, however necessary to an understanding of the situation,
will be as tedious to the audience as to the players, and they are rushed through--as in the
mirror scene---at a pace that baffles our halting pursuit.

If any male character lends itself to interpretation by a woman, it is such a character as
L'Aiglon, who, for all his spasms of martial ardour, was half feminine. And to this side of
him, and not this side alone, Miss MARIE LÖHR did justice in a performance of which her high
spirit had not underrated the difficulties. But it is a long and exigent part, and there were
times in the play when her physical strength was overtaxed. It would have taken the voice of
a strongish basso to drown the roar of a whole battlefield of ghostly warriors, with a military
band thrown in.

I am not sure that Miss LÖHR quite realised for us the Duke of Reichstadt's personality. I
should not care to have the task myself, for a good many complicated elements were mixed in
his nature. As Mr. Louis PARKER reminds you, a French father supplied him with ambition and
love of action, an Austrian grandfather with hesitancy, and Spanish ancestors with fatalism,
a very trying combination for even the original Eaglet to handle--a mere boy who had never
so much as heard of President WILSON'S League of Nation's. So it was excusable if Miss LÖHR
failed to make us completely realise a personality which was almost certainly too much for
the comprehension of its actual owner.

But she was always ah intriguing figure. Perhaps, indeed--for the apparel does not always proclaim
the man, and the Eaglet was no Hamlet in the matter of his clothes--her rather striking costumes
were a source of too much distraction.

In a very large cast, whose identities were here and there a little shadowy, the interest was
so distributed that nobody except Miss LÖHR had very much chance. But Mr. FISHER WHITE made
a touching picture of the weak old Austrian Emperor, torn between love of his grandchild and
fear of Metternich. Metternich himself, in the person of Mr. HENRY VIBART, seemed hardly sinister,
enough for the part he had to play in keeping the Eaglet under the talons of the "two-headed
fowl." But it is perhaps difficult to look really sinister in the full official uniform of
a Chancellor.

Mr. LYN HARDING, as Flambeau, veteran of NAPOLEON'S Army, introduced a faint suggestion of
badly-needed humour, and relieved the general atmosphere of Court artificiality by a touch
of nature which almost reconciled us to the improbable burst of eloquence that ROSTAND, with
his reckless prodigality, assigned to this rough soldier.

Miss LETTICE FAIRFAX gave a pleasant air of irresponsibility to the shallow Maria Louisa, and
made her bear very lightly her cross of widowhood (with bar). The briefest possible vision
of Miss BETTY FAIRE as Fanny Elssler made me want to see much more of her; but Mr. Louis PARKER
had been Napoleonically ruthless with the text. His translation sounded well, though the delivery
of it sometimes left me doubtful as to what was prose and what was verse. As for his production
of the play, it showed the old skill of a Past-Master of Pageantry.

Altogether Miss MARIE LÖHR has been justified of her courage. In a happy little speech from
which we learnt that every one of the voices (off) in the Wagram scene was a demobilised voice
from the fighting fronts, she told us that her revival of L'Aiglon was intended as a tribute
to Art after all these years of War. We were not, I think, meant to take this as a reflection
upon the part played by the British Theatre in sustaining the nation's soul during the War.
Anyhow, I for one shall read into her words just a brave promise--not, I hope, too sanguine--of
what we may expect from the new birth of the Arts of Peace.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER PENDING INDEMNITY.

It has been said that the man who for his daily shave resorts habitually to a barber has already
become a subject for a drastic moral operation. That may or may not be so, but having chambers
in Ryder Street and Alphonse residing within the precincts of St. James's, I would rather have
been carved morally into mincemeat than have robbed such an artist of his self-expression.

That is how I felt about it in 1914 and in many preceding years, during which, under the magic
spell of Alphonse, the razor fell upon my cheek like thistledown. Even to be lathered by him
was an alluring form of hypnosis. Alphonse was a Hokusai of barbers, but he was also a true
son of France; and there were Alsace and Lorraine and the arrogance of 1870 still to be accounted
for. So Alphonse went, and in his place reigned Ferdinand.

Ferdinand, what there was of him, was a good fellow. He was an old fire-eater. He had lost
a leg in Algeria and an eye somewhere else, and he could not comprehend why such trivial matters
should disqualify a man for killing pigs. He was, as I have said, a good fellow, but his methods
of using a razor were mediaeval. However we were not long for one another, and, as the R.N.V.R.
tolerate such things, I grew a beard, an equable, regulation torpedo beard.

Omitting several super-emotional lifetimes, let us speak of a certain day not very remote when
I stood, bereft of all sea power, at the top of St. James's Street, considering what was the
very best worst thing to do to a body which was bored with the reaction that follows four years'
strife upon the narrow seas. I fingered my beard meditatively. Yes, after all there was Alphonse.
I had almost forgotten him. I turned my steps towards his exclusive retreat. I entered in,
and behold! there as of yore, clothed in his samite raiment, stood the incomparable Alphonse.
He had returned. Yet in appearance he was not quite the Alphonse of old. There was something
less resilient about him, something more enduring had crept into his personality; his elasticity
had somehow turned to bronze. He was slightly grey. Nevertheless he greeted me with a Gallic
warmth that gave refreshment to my jaded spirit.

"But M'sieu would be shaved.... Yes, a beard was permissible in time of War, but in Peace--pouf!
it was barbaric."

I allowed myself to be robed and tucked comfortably into the chair. Alphonse busied himself
with the instruments of his profession.

"Five years ago it was another world, M'sieu," he said, churning a wooden bowl to mountains
of lather. "It is never again the same. The Marne ... Verdun ... Soissons. If M'sieu permits
I would like to tell him of those years."

