The natives of India affirm that tigers, panthers, and leopards, have a great aversion to hyenas,
on account of their destroying their young, which I believe they have an opportunity of doing,
as the parents leave them during the greatest part of the day. The inhabitants, therefore,
feel no apprehension in taking away the young whenever they find them, knowing the dam is seldom
near.... Hyenas are slow in their pace, and altogether inactive; I have often seen a few terriers
keep them at bay, and bite them severely by the hind quarter; their jaws, however, are exceedingly
strong, and a single bite, without holding on more than a few seconds, is sufficient to kill
a large dog. They stink horribly, make no earths of their own, lie under rocks, or resort to
the earths of wolves, as foxes do to those of badgers; and it is not uncommon to find wolves
and hyenas in the same bed of earths.

I was informed by several gentlemen, of whose veracity I could not doubt, that Captain Richards,
of the Bengal Native Infantry, had a servant of the tribe of Shecarries, who was in the habit
of going into the earths of wolves, fastening strings on them, and on the legs of hyenas, and
then drawing them out; he constantly supplied his master and the gentlemen at the station with
them, who let them loose on a plain, and rode after them with spears, for practice and amusement.
This man possessed such an acute and exquisite sense of smelling, that he could always tell
by it if there were any animals in the earths, and could distinguish whether they were hyenas
or wolves.

THE BEAR.

Bears will often continue on the road in front of the palanquin for a mile or two, tumbling
and playing all sorts of antics, as if they were taught to do so. I believe it is their natural
disposition; for they certainly are the most amusing creatures imaginable in their wild state.
It is no wonder that with monkeys they are led about to amuse mankind. It is astonishing, as
well as ludicrous, to see them climb rocks, and tumble or rather roll down precipices. If they
are attacked by any person on horseback, they stand erect on their hind legs, shewing a fine
set of white teeth, and making a cackling kind of noise. If the horse comes near them, they
try to catch him by the legs, and if they miss him, they tumble over and over several times.
They are easily speared by a person mounted on a horse that is bold enough to go near them.

SAGACITY OF THE ELEPHANT.

An elephant belonging to Mr. Boddam, of the Bengal Civil Service, at Gyah, used every day to
pass over a small bridge leading from his master's house into the town of Gyah. He one day
refused to go over it, and it was with great difficulty, by goring him most cruelly with the
Hunkuss [iron instrument], that the Mahout [driver] could get him to venture on the bridge,
the strength of which he first tried with his trunk, shewing clearly that he suspected that
it was not sufficiently strong. At last he went on, and before he could get over, the bridge
gave way, and they were precipitated into the ditch, which killed the driver, and considerably
injured the elephant. It is reasonable to suppose that the elephant must have perceived its
feeble state when he last passed over it. It is a well known fact, that elephants will seldom
or ever go over strange bridges, without first trying with their trunks if they be sufficiently
strong to bear their weight,--nor will they ever go into a boat without doing the same.

I had a remarkably quiet and docile elephant, which one day came home loaded with branches
of trees for provender, followed by a number of villagers, calling for mercy (their usual cry
when ill used); complaining that the Mahout had stolen a kid from them, and that it was then
on the elephant, under the branches of the trees. The Mahout took an opportunity of decamping
into the village and hiding himself. I ordered the elephant to be unloaded, and was surprised
to see that he would not allow any person to come near to him, when at all other times he was
perfectly tractable and obedient. Combining all the circumstances, I was convinced that the
Mahout was guilty, and to get rid of the noise, I recompensed the people for the loss of their
kid. As soon as they were gone away, the elephant allowed himself to be unloaded, and the kid
was found under the branches, as described by the people. I learnt from my Sarcar, that similar
complaints had been made to him before, and that the rascal of a Mahout made it a practice
to ride the elephant into the midst of a herd of goats, and had taught him to pick up any of
the young ones he directed; he had also accustomed him to steal their pumpions and other vegetables,
that grew against the inside of their fences like French beans, which could only be reached
by an elephant. He was the best Mahout I ever knew, and so great a rogue that I was obliged
to discharge him.

The very day that he left my service, the elephant's eyes were closed, which he did not open
again in less than a fortnight, when it was discovered that he was blind. Two small eschars,
one in each eye, were visible, which indicated pretty strongly that he had been made blind
by some sharp instrument, most probably by a heated needle. The suspicion was very strong against
the former keeper, of whom I never heard anything after. The elephant I frequently rode on,
shooting, for many years after this, through heavy covers, intersected with ravines, rivers,
and over hollow and uneven ground, and he scarcely ever made a false step with me, and never
once tumbled. He used to touch the ground with his trunk on every spot where his feet were
to be placed, and in so light and quick a manner as scarcely to be perceived. The Mahout would
often make him remove large stones, lumps of earth, or timber, out of his way, frequently climb
up and down banks that no horse could get over. He would also occasionally break off branches
of trees that were in the way of the Howdah, to enable me to pass.

Although perfectly blind, he was considered one of the best sporting elephants of his small
size in the country, and he travelled at a tolerably good rate, and was remarkably easy in
his paces.

ANECDOTES OF THE TIGER.

An occurrence nearly similar happened to me soon after, which put an end to my shooting on
foot. From that time to the period of my leaving Chittrah, which was many years after, I always
went out to shoot on an elephant. The circumstance I allude to was as follows:--Fifty or sixty
people were beating a thick cover. I was on the outside of it, with a man holding my horse,
and another servant with a hog's spear; when those who were driving the cover called Suer!
Suer! which is the Hindoostanee name for hog. Seeing something move the bushes about twenty
yards from me, and supposing it to be a hog, I fired at the spot, with ten or a dozen small
balls. Instantly on the explosion of my gun, a tiger roared out, and came galloping straight
towards us. I dipped under the horse's belly, and got on the opposite side from him. He came
within a few yards of us, and then turned off growling into the cover.

When the people came out, they brought with them a dead hog, partly devoured. These two cases,
I think, shew clearly that tigers are naturally cowardly. They generally take their prey by
surprise, and whenever they attack openly, it is reasonable to conclude that they must be extremely
hungry; which I believe is often the case, as their killing animals of the forest must be very
precarious. It is the general opinion of the inhabitants, that when a tiger has tasted human
blood he prefers it to all other food. A year or two sometimes elapses without any one being
killed by a tiger for several miles round, although they are often seen in that space, and
are known to destroy cattle; but as soon as one man is killed, others shortly after share the
same fate. This, I imagine, is the reason why the natives entertain an idea that they prefer
men to all other food. I account for it otherwise. Tigers are naturally afraid of men, and,
in the first instance, seldom attack them, unless compelled by extreme hunger. When once they
have ventured an attack, they find them much easier prey than most animals of the forest, and
always to be met with near villages, and on public roads, without the trouble of hunting about
for them through the covers.

A tigress with two cubs lurked about the Kutkumsandy pass, and during two months killed a man
almost every day, and on some days two. Ten or twelve of the people belonging to government
(carriers of the post-bags) were of the number. In fact, the communication between the Presidency
and the upper provinces was almost entirely cut off. The government, therefore, was induced
to offer a large reward to any person who killed the tigress.

She was fired at, and, adds Mr. J., never ... "heard of after;" from which it may be presumed
she was wounded. It is fortunate for the inhabitants of that country, that tigers seldom survive
any wound; their blood being always in a state predisposing to putrefaction, consequence of
the extreme heat, and their living entirely on animal food....

Two Biparies[1] were driving a string of loaded bullocks to Chittrah from Palamow. Both of
the wounded men were brought to me. The Biparie recovered, and the herdsman died.

[Footnote 1: Bipar signifies merchandise, and Biparies are people who buy grain, and other
articles, which they transport from one part of the country to another on bullocks.]

An elderly man and his wife (of the lowest caste of Hindoos, called dooms, who live chiefly
by making mats and baskets) were each carrying home a bundle of wood, and as they were resting
their burdens on the ground, the old man hearing a strange noise, looked about, and saw a tiger
running off with his wife in his mouth. He ran after them, and struck the tiger on the back
with a small axe: the tiger dropt the wife, who was soon after brought to me. One of her breasts
was almost entirely taken away, and the other much lacerated: she had also several deep wounds
in the back of her neck, by which I imagine the tiger struck at her with his two fore paws;
one on the neck, and the other on the breast. This, if I may judge from the number I have seen
wounded, is their usual way of attacking men. The old woman was six months under my care, and
at last recovered.

As an old Mahometan priest was travelling at mid-day on horseback, within a few miles of Chittrah,
with his son, an athletic young man, walking by his side, they heard a tiger roaring near them.
The son urged his father to hasten on; the old man continued at a slow pace, observing that
there was no danger, the tiger would not molest them. He then began counting his beads, and
offering his prayers to the Almighty; in the act of which he was knocked off his horse, and
carried away by the tiger; the son ran after them, and cut the tiger with his sword; he dropped
the father, seized the son, and carried him off. The father was brought to Chittrah, and died
the same day; the son was never heard of afterwards. In this instance, I think, the tiger must
have been ravenously hungry, or he would not have roared when near his prey; it is what they
seldom or ever do, except in the very act of seizing....

Some idea may be formed how numerous the tigers must have been at one period in Bengal, from
the circumstance, that one gentleman is reported to have killed upwards of three hundred and sixty.

~Death of Sir John Moore.~

From Mr. Southey's History of the Peninsular War, a work of sterling merit.

Marshal Soult's intention was to force the right of the British, and thus to interpose between
Corunna and the army, and cut it off from the place of embarkation. Failing in this attempt,
he was now endeavouring to outflank it. Half of the 4th regiment was therefore ordered to fall
back, forming an obtuse angle with the other half. This manoeuvre was excellently performed,
and they commenced a heavy flanking fire: Sir John Moore called out to them, that this was
exactly what he wanted to be done, and rode on to the 50th, commanded by Majors Napier and
Stanhope. They got over an inclosure in their front, charged the enemy most gallantly, and
drove them out of the village of Elvina; but Major Napier, advancing too far in the pursuit,
received several wounds, and was made prisoner, and Major Stanhope was killed.

The General now proceeded to the 42nd. "Highlanders," said he, "remember Egypt!" They rushed
on, and drove the French before them, till they were stopped by a wall. Sir John accompanied
them in this charge. He now sent Captain Hardinge to order up a battalion of Guards to the
left flank of the 42nd. The officer commanding the light infantry conceived at this that they
were to be relieved by the Guards, because their ammunition was nearly expended, and he began
to fall back. The General, discovering the mistake, said to them, "My brave 42nd, join your
comrades: ammunition is coming, and you have your bayonets!" Upon this, they instantly moved
forward. Captain Hardinge returned, and pointed out to the General where the Guards were advancing.
The enemy kept up a hot fire, and their artillery played incessantly on the spot where they
were standing. A cannon-shot struck Sir John, and carried away his left shoulder, and part
of the collar-bone, leaving the arm hanging by the flesh. He fell from his horse on his back;
his countenance did not change, neither did he betray the least sensation of pain. Captain
Hardinge, who dismounted, and took him by the hand, observed him anxiously watching the 42nd,
which was warmly engaged, and told him they were advancing; and upon that intelligence his
countenance brightened. Colonel Graham, who now came up to assist him, seeing the composure
of his features, began to hope that he was not wounded, till he perceived the dreadful laceration.
From the size of the wound, it was in vain to make any attempt at stopping the blood; and Sir
John consented to be removed in a blanket to the rear. In raising him up, his sword, hanging
on the wounded side, touched his arm, and became entangled between his legs. Captain Hardinge
began to unbuckle it; but the General said, in his usual tone and manner, and in a distinct
voice, "It is as well as it is; I had rather it should go out of the field with me." Six soldiers
of the 42nd and the Guards bore him. Hardinge, observing his composure, began to hope that
the wound might not be mortal, and said to him, he trusted he might be spared to the army,
and recover. Moore turned his head, and looking stedfastly at the wound for a few seconds,
replied, "No, Hardinge, I feel that to be impossible."

As the soldiers were carrying him slowly along, he made them frequently turn round, that he
might see the field of battle, and listen to the firing; and he was well pleased when the sound
grew fainter. A spring-wagon came up, bearing Colonel Wynch, who was wounded: the Colonel asked
who was in the blanket, and being told it was Sir John Moore, wished him to be placed in the
wagon. Sir John asked one of the Highlanders whether he thought the wagon or the blanket was
best? and the man said the blanket would not shake him so much, as he and the other soldiers
would keep the step, and carry him easy. So they proceeded with him to his quarters at Corunna,
weeping as they went....

The General lived to hear that the battle was won. "Are the French beaten?" was the question
which he repeated to every one who came into his apartment; and he expressed how great a satisfaction
it was to him to know that they were defeated. "I hope," he said, "the people of England will
be satisfied! I hope my country will do me justice," Then, addressing Colonel Anderson, who
had been his friend and companion in arms for one-and-twenty years, he said to him, "Anderson,
you know that I have always wished to die this way--You will see my friends as soon as you
can:--tell them everything--Say to my mother"--But here his voice failed, he became excessively
agitated, and did not again venture to name her. Sometimes he asked to be placed in an easier
posture. "I feel myself so strong," he said, "I fear I shall be long dying. It is great uneasiness--it
is great pain." But, after a while, he pressed Anderson's hand close to his body, and, in a
few minutes, died without a struggle. He fell, as it had ever been his wish to do, in battle
and in victory. No man was more beloved in private life, nor was there any general in the British
army so universally respected. All men had thought him worthy of the chief command. Had he
been less circumspect,--had he looked more ardently forward, and less anxiously around him,
and on all sides, and behind,--had he been more confident in himself and in his army, and impressed
with less respect for the French Generals, he would have been more equal to the difficulties
of his situation. Despondency was the radical weakness of his mind. Personally he was as brave
a man as ever met death in the field; but he wanted faith in British courage: and it is faith
by which miracles are wrought in war as well as in religion. But let it ever be remembered
with gratitude, that, when some of his general officers advised him to conclude the retreat
by a capitulation, Sir John Moore preserved the honour of England.

He had often said that, if he were killed in battle, he wished to be buried where he fell.
The body was removed at midnight to the citadel of Corunna. A grave was dug for him on the
rampart there, by a party of the 9th regiment, the aides-du-camp attending by turns. No coffin
could be procured; and the officers of his staff wrapped the body, dressed as it was, in a
military cloak and blankets. The interment was hastened; for, about eight in the morning, some
firing was heard, and they feared that, if a serious attack were made, they should be ordered
away, and not suffered to pay him their last duty. The officers of his staff bore him to the
grave; the funeral service was read by the chaplain; and the corpse was covered with earth.

Thus, with a solemn splendour and a sad glory, closed the career of a gallant but unfortunate
commander.

~Persian Tyranny.~

Sir R.K. Porter, in his travels in Persia, met with the sufferer from despotic tyranny and
cruelty whose story is here related. He informs us, that the benignity of this person's countenance,
united with the crippled state of his venerable frame, from the effects of his precipitation
from the terrible height of execution, excited his curiosity to inquire into the particulars
of so amazing a preservation.

Entering into conversation on the amiable characters of the reigning royal family of Persia,
and comparing the present happiness of his country under their rule, with its misery during
the sanguinary usurpation of the tyrant Nackee Khan, the good old man, who had himself been
so signal an example of that misery, was easily led to describe the extraordinary circumstances
of his own case. Being connected with the last horrible acts, and consequent fall of the usurper,
a double interest accompanied his recital, the substance of which was nearly as follows:--

Having by intrigues and assassinations made himself master of the regal power at Shiraz, this
monster of human kind found that the governor of Ispahan, instead of adhering to him, had proclaimed
the accession of the lawful heir. No sooner was the intelligence brought to Nackee Khan than
he put himself at the head of his troops, and set forward to revenge his contemned authority.
When he arrived as far as Yezdikast, he encamped his army for a short halt, near the tomb on
the north side. Being as insatiable of money as blood, he sent to the inhabitants of Yezdikast,
and demanded an immense sum in gold, which he insisted should instantly be paid to his messengers.
Unable to comply, the fact was respectfully pleaded in excuse; namely, "that all the money
the city had possessed was already taken away by his own officers, and those of the opposite
party; and that, at present, there was scarce a tomaun in the place." Enraged at this answer,
he repaired, full of wrath, to the town, and, ordering eighteen of the principal inhabitants
to be brought before him, again demanded the money, but with threats and imprecations which
made the hearers tremble. Still, however, they could only return the same answer--"their utter
inability to pay;" and the tyrant, without a moment's preparation, commanded the men to be
seized, and hurled from the top of the precipice in his sight. Most of them were instantly
killed on the spot; others, cruelly maimed, died in terrible agonies where they fell; and the
describer of the dreadful scene was the only one who survived. He could form no idea of how
long he lay after precipitation, utterly senseless; "but," added he, "by the will of God I
breathed again; and, on opening my eyes, found myself among the dead and mangled bodies of
my former neighbours and friends. Some yet groaned." He then related, that, in the midst of
his horror at the sight, he heard sounds of yet more terrible acts, from the top of the cliff;
and, momentarily strengthened by fear of he knew not what, for he believed that death had already
grasped his own poor shattered frame, he managed to crawl away, unperceived, into one of the
numerous caverned holes which perforate the foot of the steep. He lay there in an expiring
state the whole night, but in the morning was providentially discovered by some of the town's
people, who came to seek the bodies of their murdered relatives, to mourn over and take them
away for burial. The poor man, feeble as he was, called to these weeping groups; who, to their
astonishment and joy, drew out one survivor from the dreadful heap of slain. No time was lost
in conveying him home, and administering every kind of assistance; but many months elapsed
before he was able to move from his house, so deep had been the injuries inflicted in his fall.

In the course of his awful narrative, he told us, that the noise which had so appalled him,
as he lay among the blood-stained rocks, was indeed the acting of a new cruelty of the usurper.
After having witnessed the execution of his sentence on the eighteen citizens, whose asseverations
he had determined not to believe, Nackee Khan immediately sent for a devout man, called Saied
Hassan, who was considered the sage of the place, and, for his charities, greatly beloved by
the people. "This man," said the Khan, "being a descendant of the Prophet, must know the truth,
and will tell it me. He shall find me those who can and will pay the money." But the answer
given by the honest Saied being precisely the same with that of the innocent victims who had
already perished, the tyrant's fury knew no bounds, and, rising from his seat, he ordered the
holy man to be rent asunder in his presence, and then thrown over the rock, to increase the
monument of his vengeance below.

It was the tumult of this most dreadful execution, which occasioned the noise that drove the
affrighted narrator to the shelter of any hole from the eye of merciless man. But the cruel
scene did not end here. Even in the yet sensible ear of the Saied, expiring in agonies, his
execrable murderer ordered that his wife and daughters should be given up to the soldiers;
and that, in punishment of such universal rebellion in the town, the whole place should be
razed to the ground. But this last act of blood on a son of the Prophet cost the perpetrator
his life. For the soldiers themselves, and the nobles who had been partisans of the usurper,
were so struck with horror at the sacrilegious murder, and appalled with the threatened guilt
of violating women of the sacred family, that they believed a curse must follow the abettors
of such a man. The next step, in their minds, was to appease Heaven by the immolation of the
offender; and, in the course of that very night, a band of his servants cut the cords of his
tent, which, instantly falling in upon him, afforded them a secure opportunity of burying their
poniards in his body. The first strokes were followed by thousands. So detested was the wretch,
that in a few minutes his remains were hewn and torn to pieces. It does not become men to lift
the veil which lies over the whole doom of a ruthless murderer; but there is something in the
last mortal yell of a tyrant, whether it be a Robespierre or a Nackee Khan, which sounds as
if mingled with a dreadful echo from the eternal shore.

~Sketches in Virginia.~

The Rock Bridge is described by Mr. Jefferson, late President of the United States, as one
of the most sublime of the productions of Nature. It is on the ascent of a hill which seems
to have been cloven through its length by some great convulsion of Nature.

Although the sides of the bridge are provided in some parts with a parapet of fixed rocks,
yet few persons have resolution to walk to them, and look over into the abyss. The passenger
involuntarily falls on his hands, creeps to the parapet, and peeps over it. Looking down from
this height for the space of a minute, occasions a violent headache; and the view from beneath
is delightful in the extreme, as much as that from above is exquisitely painful.

The following beautiful sketch is from the pen of the Rev. John Todd, of Philadelphia, author
of the Student's Manual, Simple Sketches, and other admired works.

ROCK BRIDGE.

On a lovely morning towards the close of spring, I found myself in a very beautiful part of
the great valley of Virginia. Spurred on by impatience, I beheld the sun rising in splendour,
and changing the blue tints on the tops of the lofty Alleghany mountains into streaks of purest
gold; and nature seemed to smile in the freshness of beauty. A ride of about fifteen miles,
and a pleasant woodland ramble of about two, brought myself and my companion to the great NATURAL
BRIDGE.

Although I had been anxiously looking forward to this time, and my mind had been considerably
excited by expectation, yet I was not altogether prepared for this visit. This great work of
nature is considered by many as the second great curiosity in our country, Niagara Falls being
the first. I do not expect to convey a very correct idea of this bridge; for no description
can do this.

The Natural Bridge is entirely the work of God. It is of solid limestone, and connects two
huge mountains together, by a most beautiful arch over which there is a great wagon road. Its
length from one mountain to the other is nearly eighty feet, its width about thirty-five, its
thickness forty-five, and its perpendicular height above the water is not far from two hundred
and twenty feet. A few bushes grow on its top, by which the traveller may hold himself as he
looks over. On each side of the stream, and near the bridge, are rocks projecting ten or fifteen
feet over the water, and from two hundred to three hundred feet from its surface, all of limestone.
The visitor cannot give so good a description of the bridge as he can of his feelings at the
time. He softly creeps out on a shaggy projecting rock, and, looking down a chasm from forty
to sixty feet wide, he sees, nearly three hundred feet below, a wild stream foaming and dashing
against the rocks beneath, as if terrified at the rocks above. This stream is called Cedar
Creek. He sees under the arch, trees whose height is seventy feet; and yet, as he looks down
upon them, they appear like small bushes of perhaps two or three feet in height. I saw several
birds fly under the arch, and they looked like insects. I threw down a stone, and counted thirty-four
before it reached the water. All hear of heights and of depths, but they here see what is high,
and they tremble, and feel it to be deep. The awful rocks present their everlasting butments,
the water murmurs and foams far below, and the two mountains rear their proud heads on each
side, separated by a channel of sublimity. Those who view the sun, the moon, and the stars,
and allow that none but God could make them, will here be impressed that none but an Almighty
God could build a bridge like this.

The view of the bridge from below is as pleasing as the top view is awful. The arch from beneath
would seem to be about two feet in thickness. Some idea of the distance from the top to the
bottom may be formed, from the fact, that as I stood on the bridge and my companion beneath,
neither of us could speak sufficiently loud to be heard by the other. A man, from either view,
does not appear more than four or five inches in height.

As we stood under this beautiful arch, we saw the place where visitors have often taken the
pains to engrave their names upon the rock. Here Washington climbed up twenty-five feet, and
carved his own name, where it still remains. Some, wishing to immortalise their names, have
engraven them deep and large, while others have tried to climb up and insert them high in this
book of fame.

