    "I know only of one species of stoat, but I have certainly seen more
    than one species of weasel.... There is one species of weasel so small
    that it can easily follow mice into their holes; and one of these, not
    a month ago, I watched go into a mouse's hole in an open grass field.
    Seeing something hopping along in the grass, which I took for a large
    long-tailed field mouse, I stood still as it was approaching my
    position, and when within a foot or two of the spot on which I was
    standing, so that I could have a full view of the animal, a very small
    weasel appeared, and quickly disappeared again in a tuft of grass. On
    searching the spot I discovered a mousehole, in which Mr. Weasel had
    made his exit."

W. R. D. SALMON.

Lockwood, the Court Jester.--In some MS. accounts temp. Edw. VI., Mary, and Elizabeth, now
before me, payments to "Lockwood, the king's jester," or "the queen's jester, whose name is
Lockwood," are of almost annual occurrence. He appears to have travelled about the country
like the companies of itinerant players.

Are any particulars known respecting him, and where shall I find the best account of the ancient
court jesters? I am aware of Douce's work, and the memoirs of Will. Somers, the fool of Henry VIII.

WILLIAM KELLY.

Leicester.

Right of redeeming Property.--In some country or district which I have formerly visited, there
exists, or did recently exist, a right of redeeming property which had passed from its owner's
hands, somewhat similar to that prescribed to the Jews in Leviticus xxvi. 25. &c., and analogous
to the custom in Brittany, with which Sterne's beautiful story has made us {517} familiar.
Can you help me to remember where it is?

C. W. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Dictionary of Zingari.--Can you direct me to a glossary or dictionary of this language? I have
seen Borrow's Lavengro, and am not aware whether either of his other works contains anything
of the sort. I should imagine it cannot be a perfect language, since the Rommanies located
in our locality invariably use the English articles and pronouns; but knowing nothing more
of it than what I glean from casual intercourse, I am unable to decide to my own satisfaction.

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.
    This dictionary is omitted in the fourth edition of 1846; but some
    "Specimens of Gypsy dialects" are added. Our correspondent may also be
    referred to the two following works, which appear in the current number
    of Quarritch's Catalogue: "Pott, Die Zigeuner in Europa und Asien, vol.
    i. Einleitung und Grammatik, ii. Ueber Gaunersprachen, Wörterbuch and
    Sprachproben, 2 vols. 8vo. sewed, 15s. Halle, 1844-45." "Rotwellsche
    Grammatik oder Sprachkunst; Wörterbuch der Zigeuner-Sprache, 2 parts in
    1, 12mo. half-bound morocco, 7s. 6d. Frankfurt, 1755."]

Sir Robert Coke.--Of what family was Sir Robert Coke, referred to in Granger, vol. iii. p.
212., ed. 1779, as having collected a valuable library bestowed by George, first Earl of Berkeley,
on Sion College, London, the letter of thanks for which is in Collins?

T. P. L.

Manchester.

    [Sir Robert Coke was son and heir to Sir Edward Coke, Lord Chief
    Justice of the Kings Bench. The Cokes had been settled for many
    generations in the county of Norfolk. Camden has traced the pedigree of
    the family to William Coke of Doddington in Norfolk, in the reign of
    King John. They had risen to considerable distinction under Edward
    III., when Sir Thomas Coke was made Seneschal of Gascoigne. From him,
    in the right male line, was descended Robert Coke, the father of Sir
    Edward. See Campbell's Lives of Chief Justices, vol. i. p. 240.]

Regium Donum.--What is the origin and history of the "Regium Donum?"

    [In the year 1672, Charles II. gave to Sir Arthur Forbes the sum of
    600l., to be applied to the use of the Presbyterian ministers in
    Ireland. He professed not to know how to bestow it in a better manner,
    as he had learnt that these ministers had been loyal, and had even
    suffered on his account; and as that sum remained undisposed of in "the
    settlement of the revenue of Ireland," he gave it in his charity to
    them. This was the origin of the Regum donum. As the dissenters
    approved themselves strong friends to the House of Brunswick, George
    I., in 1723, wished too to reward them for their loyalty, and, by a
    retaining fee, preserve them stedfast. A considerable sum, therefore,
    was annually lodged with the heads of the Presbyterians, Independents,
    and Baptists, to be distributed among the necessitous ministers of
    their congregations.]

Who was the Author of "Jerningham" and "Doveton?" (Vol. viii., p. 127.).--MR. ANSTRUTHER begs
to decline the compliment; perhaps the publisher of the admirable History of the War in Affghanistan
can find a head to fit the cap.

Oswestry.

    [On a reference to our note-book, we find our authority for attributing
    the authorship of these works to Mr. Anstruther is the Gentleman's
    Magazine for September, 1837, p. 283. In the review of Doveton the
    writer says, "There is in it a good deal to amuse, and something to
    instruct, but the whole narrative of Mr. Anstruther is too
    melodramatic," &c. However, as he declines the compliment, perhaps some
    of our readers will be able to find the right head to fit the cap.]

Alma Mater.--In Ainsworth's Latin Dictionary I observed he limits the use of that expression
to Cambridge. I have been accustomed to see it used for Oxford, or any other university. What
is his reason for applying it to Cambridge alone?

MA. L.

    [Bailey, too, in his Dictionary, applies the epithet exclusively to
    Cambridge, Alma mater Cantabrigia: so that it seems to have
    originated with that university. It is now popularly applied to Oxford,
    and other universities, by those who have imbibed the milk of learning
    from these places. The epithet has lately been transplanted to the
    United States of America.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

ALEXANDER CLARK.

(Vol. viii., p. 18.)

In communicating a few particulars about Alexander Clark, I must disappoint your correspondent
PERTHENSIS; my subject answering in no respect to Peter Buchan's "drucken dominie," the author
of the Buttery College. Alexander Clark, who has fallen in my way, belongs to the class of
"amiable enthusiasts;" a character I am somewhat fond of, believing that in any pursuit a dash
of the latter quality is essential to success.

Clark was by profession a gardener; and as my friends in the north always seek to localise
their worthies, I venture to assign him to Annandale. My first acquaintance with him arose
from his {518} Emblematical Representation falling into my hands; and, pursuing my inquiries,
I found this was but one of some half-dozen visionary works from the same pen. In his View
of the Glory of the Messiah's Kingdom, we have the origin of his taking upon himself the prophetic
character; it is entitled:

    "A Brief Account of an Extraordinary Revelation, and other Things
    Remarkable, in the Course of God's Dealings with Alexander Clark,
    Gardener at Dumcrief, near Moffat, Anandale, in the Year 1749."

    "In the month of August, 1749," says he, "at a certain time when the
    Lord was pleased to chastise me greatly in a bed of affliction, and in
    the midst of my great trial, it pleased the Almighty God wonderfully to
    surprise me with a glorious light round about me; and looking up, I saw
    straight before me a glorious building in the air, as bright and clear
    as the sun: it was so vastly great, so amiable to behold, so full of
    majesty and glory, that it filled my heart with wonder and admiration.
    The place where this sight appeared to me was just over the city of
    Edinburgh; at the same instant I heard, as it were, the musick bells of
    the said city ring for joy."

From this period, Clark's character became tinged with that enthusiasm which ended in his belief
that he was inspired; and that in publishing his--

    "Signs of the Times: showing by many infallible Testimonies and Proofs
    out of the Holy Scripture, that an extraordinary Change is at Hand,
    even at the very Door,"--

he was merely "emitting what he derived directly, by special favour, from God!"

    "The Spirit of God," he says on another occasion, "was so sensibly
    poured out upon me, and to such a degree, that I was thereby made to
    see things done in secret, and came to find things lost, and knew where
    to go to find those things which were lost!"

This second sight, if I may so call it, set our author upon drawing aside the veil from the
prophetic writings; and his view of their mystical sense is diffused over the indigested and
rambling works bearing the following titles:

    "A View of the Glory of the Messiah's Kingdom." 1763.

    "Remarks upon the Accomplishment of Scripture Prophecy."

    "A Practical Treatise on Regeneration." 1764.

    "The Mystery of God opened," &c. Edinburgh. 1768.

    "An Emblematical Representation of the Paradise of God, showing the
    Nature of Spiritual Industry in the Similitude of a Garden, well
    ordered, dressed, and kept, with Sundry Reflections on the Nature of
    Divine Knowledge, 1779."

In his Address to the Friendly Society of Gardeners, Clark gives some account of his worldly
condition; of his early training in religious habits; his laborious and industrious devotion
to his profession, with which he seems to have been greatly enamoured, although poorly paid,
and often in straits. Subsequently to the great event of his life--his vision--our subject
appears to have come south, and to have been in the employment of Lord Charles Spencer at Hanworth
in Middlesex. Like most of the prophets of his day, Clark was haunted with the belief that
the last day was approaching; and considering himself called upon to announce to his acquaintance
and neighbours that this "terrible judgment of God was at hand," he got but contempt and ridicule
for his pains:--more than that, indeed, for those raising the cry that he was a madman, they
procured the poor man's expulsion from his situation. Under all these discouraging circumstances,
he maintained his firm conviction of the approaching end of time: so strongly was his mind
bent in this direction, that "I opened the window of the house where I then was," says he,
"thinking to see Christ coming in the clouds!"

    "I was three days and three nights that I could not eat, drink, nor
    sleep; and when I would close my eyes, I felt something always touching
    me; at length I heard a voice sounding in mine ears, saying 'Sleep not,
    lest thou sleep the sleep of death:' and at that I looked for my Bible,
    and at the first opening of it I read these words, which were sent with
    power, 'To him that overcometh,'" &c.

Poor Clark, like his prototype Thomas Newans, laboured hard to obtain the sanction of the hierarchy
to his predictions:

    "I desire no man," he says, "to believe me without proof; and if the
    Reverend the Clergy would think this worth their perusal, I would very
    willingly hear what they had to say either for or against."

The orthodoxy of the "Reverend the Clergy" was not, however, to be moved; and Alexander Clark
and his books now but serve the end of pointing a moral. With more real humility and less presumption,
there was much that was good about him; but letting his heated fancies get the better of the
little judgment he possessed, our amiable enthusiast became rather a stumbling-block than light
to his generation.

J. O.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMCOTTS PEDIGREE.

(Vol. viii., p. 387.)

Although I may not be able to furnish your inquirer with full pedigree of this family, my Notes
may prove useful in making it out.

From a settlement after marriage in 1663, of Vincent Amcotts of Laughton, in the county of
Lincoln, gentleman, I find his wife's name to be Amy; but who she was is not disclosed. It
appears she survived her husband, and was his {519} widow and relict and executrix living in
1687. Their eldest daughter Elizabeth married John Sheffield, Esq., of Croxby, and I have noted
three children of theirs, viz. Vincent, who died s.p.; Christopher, who, with Margaret, his
wife, in 1676 sold the Croxby estate; and Sarah. What farther as to this branch does not appear,
although my next Vincent Amcotts may be, and probably was, a descendant. This Vincent Amcotts
was of Harrington, in the county of Lincoln, Esq.; and who, from his marriage settlement dated
May 16 and 17, 1720, married Elizabeth, the third of the four daughters of John Quincy of Aslackby,
in the county of Lincoln, gentleman: and I find the issue of this marriage to be Charles Amcotts
of Kettlethorpe, in the county of Lincoln, Esq., who died in 1777 s.p.; Anna Maria, whom married
Wharton Emerson; Elizabeth, who died previous to her brother Charles; and Frances, who married
the Rev. Edward Buckworth of Washingborough, in the county of Lincoln, Clerk, Doctor of Laws.

After the death of Charles Amcotts, we find Wharton Emerson at Kettlethorpe, having assumed
the name of Amcotts: he was created a baronet in 1796, the title being limited in remainder
to the eldest son of his daughter Elizabeth. Sir Wharton Amcotts married a second wife, Amelia
Campbell, by whom he had a daughter, but what became of her does not appear. Elizabeth, the
daughter and heir of Sir Wharton Amcotts by his first wife Anna Maria Amcotts, married in 1780
John Ingilby, Esq., of Ripley, who in the next year was created a baronet: and they appear
to have had eleven children, viz. John Charles Amcotts, the present Sir William Amcotts Ingelby,
in whom both titles are vested, Elizabeth, Augusta, Anna Maria, and Ann; which last three died
in infancy; Diana, Vincent Bosville, who died at a year old, and Julia and Constance. Thus
far my Notes extend.

W. S. HESLEDEN.

Barton-upon-Humber.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR RALPH WINWOOD.

(Vol. viii., p. 272.)

I have an original letter of Sir Ralph Winwood's in French, addressed "A Monsieur Mons^r Charles
Huyghens, Secrétaire du Conseil d'estat de Mess^{rs} les Estats à la Haye," which, as it may
possibly be interesting to your correspondent H. P. W. R., I here transcribe:

    "Mons^r.--Vos dernières m'ont rendu tesmoignage de vostre bonn'
    affection en mon endroict. Car je m'asseure que vous n'eussiez jamais
    recommendé vostre filz à ma protection si mon nom n'eust esté
    enregistré au nombre de vos meilleurs et plus affectionnés amys. Je
    m'en vay, dans peu de jours, trouver Sa Ma^{té} en son retour d'Escoce,
    et j'espere sur la fin du moys de 7^{bre} de me rendre à ma maison à
    Londres. Sur ce temps-là, s'il vous plaira d'envoyer v^{re} filz vers
    moy, il sera le bien venu. Son traittement rendra tesmoinage de
    l'estime que je fais de vostre amitié. De vous envoyer des nouvelles,
    ce seroyt d'envoyer Noctuas Athenas. Tout est coÿ icy. La mort de
    Concini a rendu la France heureuse. Mais l'Italie est en danger d'estre
    exposée à la tirannie d'Espagne. Je vous baise les mains, et suis,
    Mons^r, vostre plus affectionné servit^r,

              RODOLPHE WINWOOD.
     "De Londres, le 7^{me} de Juillet."

The year is not indicated, but the allusion to the death of Concini (the celebrated Maréchal
d'Ancre, who was assassinated by order of Louis XIII.) proves that this letter was written
in 1617, and very shortly before the death of the writer, which occurred on the 27th of October
in that year.

M. Charles Huyghens, to whom the letter is addressed, was probably the father of Constantine
Huyghens, the Dutch poet-politician, who was secretary and privy counsellor to the Stadtholders
Frederick Henry, and William I. and II., and who, not improbably, was the son here mentioned
as recommended to the protection of Sir R. Winwood, and who, at that date, would have been
twenty-one years of age.

Constantine was himself the father of the still more celebrated Christian Huyghens, the astronomer
and mathematician. The seal on the letter, which is in excellent preservation, is a shield
bearing the following arms: 1. and 4. a cross botonné, 2. and 3. three fleurs-de-lis.

W. SNEYD.

Denton.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRENCH ON PROVERBS.

(Vol. viii., p. 387.)

I hope that neither Mr. Trench nor his critic E. M. B. will consider me interfering by my making
an observation or two on the correct rendering of the latter part of Ps. cxxvii. 2. Mr. Trench
is perfectly correct by supposing an ellipsis in the sentence alluded to, and the words

  [Hebrew: YTN LYDYDW SHN']

should have been translated, "He will give to his beloved whilst he [the beloved] is asleep."
The translation of the authorised version of that sacred affirmation is unintelligible. Mr.
Trench has the support of Luther's version, which has the sentence thus:

 "Seinen Freunden giebt er es schlafend."

The celebrated German Jewish translator of the Old Testament agrees with Mr. Trench. The following
is Dr. Zunz's rendering:

 "Das giebt er seinem Liebling im Schlaf."

{520}

The following is the Hebrew annotation in the far-famed Moses Mendelsohn's edition of the Book
of Psalms:

  [Hebrew: YTNHW HQB-H LYDYDW 'SHR HW' CHPTS BW B`WDNW YSHN WBLY MRCHH:]

"The holy and blessed One will give it to his beloved, in whom He delights, whilst he is yet
asleep and without fatigue."

I need not adduce passages in the Hebrew Psalter, where such ellipsises do occur. E. M. B.
evidently knows his Hebrew Bible well, and a legion of examples will immediately occur to him.

MOSES MARGOLIOUTH.

Wybunbury, Nantwich.

If E. M. B. will refer to Hengstenberg's Commentary on the Psalms, he will find that Mr. Trench
is not without authority for his translation of Ps. cxxvii. 2. I quote the passage from Thompson
and Fairbairn's translation, in Clark's Theological Library, vol. iii. p. 449.:

    "[Hebrew: SHN'] for [Hebrew: SHNH] is not the accusative, but the
    preposition is omitted, as is frequently the case with words that are
    in constant use. For example, [Hebrew: BQR, `RB], to which [Hebrew:
    SHNH] here is poetically made like. The exposition He gives sleep,
    instead of in sleep, gives an unsuitable meaning. For the subject is
    not about the sleep, but the gain."

C. I. E.

Winkfield.

Has the translation of Ps. cxxvii. 2., which Mr. Trench has adopted, the sanction of any version
but that of Luther?

N. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON PALINDROMES.

(Vol vii., p. 178. &c.)

Several of your correspondents have offered Notes upon these singular compositions, and AGRICOLA
DE MONTE adduces

 "[Greek: NIPSON ANOMÊMATA, MÊ MONAN OPSIN]"

as an example. As neither he nor MR. ELLACOMBE give it as found out of this country, allow
me to say that it was to be seen on a benitier in the church of Notre Dame at Paris. If it
were not for the substitution of the adjective [Greek: MONAN] for the adverb [Greek: MONON],
the line would be one of the best specimens of the recurrent order.

I notice that a correspondent (Vol. vii., p. 336.) describes the Palindrome as being universally
sotadic. Now, this term was only intended to apply to the early samples of this fanciful species
of verse in Latin, the production Sotades, a Roman poet, 250 B.C. The lines given by BOEOTICUS
(Vol. vi., p. 209.),

 "Roma tibi subito motibus ibit amor?"

owe their authorship to his degraded Muse, and many others which would but pollute your pages.

The hexameter "Sacrum pingue," &c. given by [Omega]. [Phi]. (Vol. vi., p. 36.), is to be found
in Misson's Voyage to Italy, copied from an old cloister wall of Santa Maria Novella at Florence.
These ingenious verses are Leoline[2], and it is noted that "the sacrifice of Cain was not
a living victim."

I have seen it stated that the English language affords but one specimen of the palindrome,
while the Latin and Greek have many. The late Dr. Winter Hamilton, the author of Nugæ Literariæ,
gives this solitary line, which at the best is awkwardly fashioned:

 "Lewd did I live & evil did I dwel."

Is any other known?

Some years since I fell in with that which, after all, is the most wonderful effort of the
kind; at least I can conceive of nothing at all equal to it.

It is to be found in a poem called [Greek: Poiêma Karkinekon], written in ancient Greek by
a modern Greek called Ambrosius, printed in Vienna in 1802, and dedicated to the Emperor Alexander.
It contains 455 lines, every one of which is literal palindrome.

I have some hesitation in giving even a quotation; and yet, notwithstanding the forced character
of some of the lines, your readers will not fail to admire the classic elegance of this remarkable
composition.

 "[Greek: Eu Elisabet, Alla t' ebasileue.]
  [Greek: Elabe ta kaka, kai akaka katebale.]
  [Greek: Areta pêgase de sa gê patera.]
  [Greek: Sômati sô phene phene phôs itamôs.]
  [Greek: Su dê Hêrôs hoios ô Rhôs hoios hôrê hêdus:]
  [Greek: Noi su laôi alaôi alusion.]
  [Greek: Neme êthê laôi tôi alêthê emen.]
  [Greek: Su eso ethnei ekei entheos eus.]
  [Greek: Hô Rhôs ele ti su lusiteles ôrô.]
  [Greek: Alla ta en nôi bale, labôn nea t' alla]
  [Greek: Sôtêr su eso ô elee thee leô, hos eus rhêtôs]
  [Greek: Son hade sôtêra idia rhêtôs edanos.]"

CHARLES REED.

Paternoster Row.

[Footnote 2: Leo was a poet of the twelfth century.]

Here is a Palindrome that surrounds a figure of the sun in the mosaic pavement of Sa. Maria
del Fiori at Florence:

 "En giro torte sol ciclos et rotor igne."

Could any of your correspondents translate this enigmatical line?

MOSAFFUR.

E. I. Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

The Claymore (Vol. viii., p. 365.).--I believe there is no doubt that the true Scottish claymore
is the heavy two-handed sword, examples of which are preserved at Dumbarton Castle, and at
{521} Hawthornden, and respectively attributed to William Wallace, and to Robert the Bruce.
The latter is a very remarkable specimen, the grip being formed either of the tusk of a walrus
or of a small elephant, considerably curved; and the guard is constructed of two iron bars,
terminated by trefoils, and intersecting each other at right angles. The blade is very ponderous,
and shorter than usual in weapons of this description.

The claymore of modern times is a broadsword, double or single-edged, and provided with a basket
hilt of form peculiar to Scotland, though the idea was probably derived from Spain. Swords
with basket hilts were commonly used by the English cavalry in the reigns of Charles I. and
II., but they are always of a different type from the Scotch, though affording as complete
a protection to the hand. I possess some half-dozen examples, some from Gloucestershire, which
are of the times of the civil wars. There are many swords said to have been the property of
Oliver Cromwell; one is in the United Service Museum: all that I have seen are of this form.

W. J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

