A week passed pleasantly with my host. I spoke of departure at the end of it. He smiled when
I did so, bade me hold my tongue and be patient. I suffered another week to glide away, and
then hinted once more that I had trespassed long enough upon his hospitality. The doctor placed
his hand upon my arm, and answered quickly, "all in good time--do not hurry." His tone and
manner confirmed, I know not why, the strong hope within me, and his words passed with meaning
to my heart. I already built upon the aerial foundation, and looked forward with joyous confidence
and expectation. The arguments and shows of truth are few that love requires. The poorest logic
is the soundest reasoning--if it conclude for him. The visits to the parsonage were, meanwhile,
continued. Upon my return, I gained no news. I asked if all were well there, and the simple,
monosyllable, "Yes," answered with unusual quickness and decision, was all that escaped the
doctor's lips. He did not wish to be interrogated further, and was displeased. I perceived
this and was silent. For some days, no mention was made of his dear friend the minister. He
was accustomed to speak often of that man, and most affectionately. What was the inference?
A breach had taken place. If I entertained the idea for a day, it was dissipated on the next;
for the doctor, a week having elapsed since his last visit, rode over to the parsonage as usual,
remained there some hours, and returned in his best and gayest spirits. He spoke of the Fairmans
during the evening with the same kind feeling and good-humour that had always accompanied his
allusions to them and their proceedings, and grew at length eloquent in the praises of them
both. The increasing beauty of the young mistress, he said, was marvellous. "Ah," he added
slyly, and with more truth, perhaps, than he suspected, "it would have done your eyes good
to-day, only to have got one peep at her." I sighed, and he tantalized me further. He pretended
to pity me for the inconsiderate haste with which I had thrown up my employment, and to condole
with me for all I had lost in consequence. "As for himself," he said, "he had, upon further
consideration, given up all thought of marriage for the present. He should live a little longer
and grow wiser; but it was not a pleasant thing, by any means, to see so sweet a girl taken
coolly off by a young fellow, who, if all he heard was true, was very likely to have an early
opportunity." I sighed again, and asked permission to retire to rest; but my tormentor did
not grant it, until he had spoken for half an hour longer, when he dismissed me in a state
of misery incompatible with rest, in bed, or out of it. My heart was bursting when I left him.
He could not fail to mark it. To my surprise, he made another excursion to the parsonage on
the following day; and, as before, he joined me in the evening with nothing on his lips but
commendation of the young lady whom he had seen, and complaint at the cruel act which was about
to rob them of their treasure; for he said, regardless of my presence or the desperate state
of my feelings, "that the matter was now all but settled. Fairman had made up his mind, and
was ready to give his consent the very moment the young fellow was bold enough to ask it. And
lucky dog he is too," added the kind physician, by way of a conclusion, "for little puss herself
is over head and ears in love with him, or else I never made a right prognosis."

"I am much obliged to you, sir," I answered, when Doctor Mayhew paused; "very grateful for
your hospitality. If you please, I will depart to-morrow. I trust you will ask me to remain
no longer. I cannot do so. My business in London"----

"Oh, very well! but that can wait, you know," replied the doctor, interrupting me. "I can't
spare you to-morrow. I have asked a friend to dinner, and you must meet him."

"Do not think me ungrateful, doctor," I answered; "but positively I must and will depart to-morrow.
I cannot stay."

"Nonsense, man, you shall. Come, say you will, and I engage, if your intention holds, to release
you as early as you like the next day. I have promised my friend that you will give him the
meeting, and you must not refuse me. Let me have my way to-morrow, and you shall be your own
master afterwards."

"Upon such terms, sir," I answered immediately, "it would he unpardonable if I persisted. You
shall command me; on the following day, I will seek my fortunes in the world again."

"Just so," replied the doctor, and so we separated.

The character of Dr Mayhew was little known to me. His goodness of heart I had reason to be
acquainted with, but his long established love of jesting, his intense appreciation of a joke,
practical or otherwise, I had yet to learn. In few men are united, as happily as they were
in him, a steady application to the business of the world, and an almost unrestrained indulgence
in its harmless pleasantries. The grave doctor was a boy at his fireside. I spent my last day
in preparing for my removal, and in rambling for some hours amongst the hills, with which I
had become too familiar to separate without a pang. Long was our leave-taking. I lingered and
hovered from nook to nook, until I had expended the latest moment which it was mine to give.
With a burdened spirit I returned to the house, as my thoughts shifted to the less pleasing
prospect afforded by my new position. I shuddered to think of London, and the fresh vicissitudes
that awaited me.

It wanted but a few minutes to dinner when I stepped into the drawing-room. The doctor had
just reached home, after being absent on professional duty since the morning. The visitor had
already arrived; I had heard his knock whilst I was dressing. Having lost all interest in the
doings of the place, I had not even cared to enquire his name. What was it to me? What difference
could the chance visitor of a night make to me, who was on the eve of exile? None. I walked
despondingly into the room, and advanced with distant civility towards the stranger. His face
was from me, but he turned instantly upon hearing my step, and I beheld----Mr Fairman. I could
scarcely trust my eyes. I started, and retreated. My reverend friend, however, betrayed neither
surprise nor discomposure. He smiled kindly, held out his hand, and spoke as he was wont in
the days of cordiality and confidence. What did it mean?

"It is a lovely afternoon, Stukely," began the minister, "worthy of the ripe summer in which
it is born."

"It is, sir," I replied; "but I shall see no more of them," I added instantly, anxious to assure
him that I was not lurking with sinister design so near the parsonage--that I was on the eve
of flight. "I quit our friend to-morrow, and must travel many miles away."

"You will come to us, Caleb," answered Mr Fairman mildly.

"Sir!" said I, doubting if I heard aright.

"Has Dr Mayhew said nothing then?" he asked.

I trembled in every limb.

"Nothing, sir," I answered. "Oh, yes! I recollect--he did--he has--but what have I--I have
no wish--no business"----

The door opened, and Dr Mayhew himself joined us, rubbing his hands, and smiling, in the best
of good tempers. In his rear followed the faithful Williams. Before a word of explanation could
be offered, the latter functionary announced "dinner," and summoned us away. The presence of
the servants during the meal interfered with the gratification of my unutterable curiosity.
Mr Fairman spoke most affably on different matters, but did not once revert to the previous
subject of discourse. I was on thorns. I could not eat. I could not look at the minister without
anxiety and shame, and whenever my eye caught that of the doctor, I was abashed by a look of
meaning and good-humoured cunning, that was half intelligible and half obscure. Rays of hope
penetrated to my heart's core, and illuminated my existence. The presence of Mr Fairman could
not be without a purpose. What was it, then? Oh, I dared not trust myself to ask the question!
The answer bred intoxication and delight, too sweet for earth. What meant that wicked smile
upon the doctor's cheek? He was too generous and good to laugh at my calamity. He could not
do it. Yet the undisturbed demeanour of the minister confounded me. If there had been connected
with this visit so important an object as that which I longed to believe was linked with it,
there surely would have been some evidence in his speech and manner, and he continued as cheerful
and undisturbed as if his mind were free from every care and weighty thought. "What can it
mean?" I asked myself, again and again. "How can he coolly bid me to his house, after what
has passed, after his fearful anxiety to get me out of it? Will he hazard another meeting with
his beloved daughter?--Ah, I see it!" I suddenly and mentally exclaimed; "it is clear enough--she
is absent--she is away. He wishes to evince his friendly disposition at parting, and now he
can do it without risk or cost." It was a plain elucidation of the mystery--it was enough,
and all my airy castles tumbled to the earth, and left me there in wretchedness. Glad was I
when the dinner was concluded, and eager to withdraw. I had resolved to decline, at the first
opportunity, the invitation of the incumbent. I did not wish to grieve my heart in feasting
my eyes upon a scene crowded with fond associations, to revoke feelings in which it would be
folly to indulge again, and which it were well to annihilate and forget. I was about to beg
permission to leave the table, when Dr Mayhew rose; he looked archly at me when I followed
his example, and requested me not to be in haste; "he had business to transact, and would rejoin
us shortly." Saying these words, he smiled and vanished. I remained silent. To be left alone
with Mr Fairman, was the most annoying circumstance that could happen in my present mood. There
were a hundred things which I burned to know, whilst I lacked the courage to enquire concerning
one. But I had waited for an opportunity to decline his invitation. Here it was, and I had
not power to lift my head and look at him. Mr Fairman himself did not speak for some minutes.
He sat thoughtfully, resting his forehead in the palm of his hand--his elbow on the table.
At length he raised his eyes, and whilst my own were still bent downward, I could feel that
his were fixed upon me.

"Caleb," said the minister.

It was the first time that the incumbent had called me by my Christian name. How strangely
it sounded from his lips! How exquisitely grateful it dropt upon my ear!

"Tell me, Caleb," continued Mr Fairman, "did I understand you right? Is it true that Mayhew
has told you nothing?"

"Nothing distinctly, sir," I answered--"I have gathered something from his hints, but I know
not what he says in jest and what in earnest."

"I have only her happiness at heart, Stukely--from the moment that you spoke to me on the subject,
I have acted solely with regard to that. I hoped to have smothered this passion in the bud.
In attempting it, I believed I was acting as a father should, and doing my duty by her."

The room began to swim round me, and my head grew dizzy.

"I am to blame, perhaps, as Mayhew says, for having brought you together, and for surrounding
her with danger. I should have known that to trifle with a heart so guileless and so pure was
cruel and unjust, and fraught with perilous consequences. I was blind, and I am punished for
my act."

I looked at him at length.

"I use the word deliberately--punished, Stukely. It is a punishment to behold the affection
of which I have ever been too jealous, departing from me, and ripening for another. Why have
I cared to live since Heaven took her mother to itself--but for her sake, for her welfare,
and her love? But sorrow and regret are useless now. You do not know, young man, a thousandth
part of your attainment when I tell you, you have gained her young and virgin heart. I oppose
you no longer--I thwart not--render yourself worthy of the precious gift."

"I cannot speak, sir!" I exclaimed, seizing the hand of the incumbent in the wildness of my
joy. "I am stupified by this intelligence! Trust me, sir--believe me, you shall find me not
undeserving of your generosity and"----

"No, Stukely. Call it not by such a name. It is any thing but that; there is no liberality,
no nobility of soul, in giving you what I may not now withhold. I cannot see her droop and
die, and live myself to know that a word from me had saved her. I have given my consent to
the prosecution of your attachment at the latest moment--not because I wished it, but to prevent
a greater evil. I have told you the truth! It was due to us both that you should hear it; for
the future look upon me as your father, and I will endeavour to do you justice."

There was a stop. I was so oppressed with a sense of happiness, that I could find no voice
to speak my joy or tell my thanks. Mr Fairman paused, and then continued.

"You will come to the parsonage to-morrow, and take part again in the instruction of the lads
after their return. You will be received as my daughter's suitor. Arrangements will be made
for a provision for you. Mayhew and I have it in consideration now. When our plan is matured,
it shall be communicated to you. There need be no haste. You are both young--too young for
marriage--and we shall not yet fix the period of your espousal."

My mind was overpowered with a host of dazzling visions, which rose spontaneously as the minister
proceeded in his delightful talk. I soon lost all power of listening to details. The beloved
Ellen, the faithful and confiding maiden, who had not deserted the wanderer although driven
from her father's doors--she, the beautiful and priceless jewel of my heart, was present in
every thought, and was the ornament and chief of every group that passed before my warm imagination.
Whilst the incumbent continued to speak of the future, of his own sacrifice, and my great gain--whilst
his words, without penetrating, touched my ears, and died away--my soul grew busy in the contemplation
of the prize, which, now that it was mine, I scarce knew how to estimate. Where was she then?
How had she been? To how many days of suffering and of trial may she have been doomed? How
many pangs may have wrung that noble heart before its sad complaints were listened to, and
mercifully answered? I craved to be at her side. The words which her father had spoken had
loosened the heavy chain that tied me down--my limbs were conscious of their freedom--my spirit
felt its liberty--what hindered instant flight? In the midst of my reverie Dr Mayhew entered
the room--and I remember distinctly that my immediate impulse was to leave the two friends
together, and to run as fast as love could urge and feet could carry me--to the favoured spot
which held all that I cared for now on earth. The plans, however, of Doctor Mayhew interfered
with this desire. He had done much for me, more than I knew, and he was not the man to go without
his payment. A long evening was yet before us, time enough for a hundred jokes, which I must
hear, and witness, and applaud or I was most unworthy of the kindness he had shown me. The
business over for which Mr Fairman had come expressly, the promise given of an early visit
to the parsonage on the following day, an affectionate parting at the garden gate, and the
incumbent proceeded on his homeward road. The doctor and I returned together to the house in
silence and one of us in partial fear; for I could see the coming sarcasm in the questionable
smile that played about his lips. Not a word was spoken when we resumed our seats. At last
he rang the bell, and Williams answered it----

"Book Mr Stukely by the London coach to-morrow, Williams," said the master; "he positively
must and will depart to-morrow."

The criminal reprieved--the child, hopeless and despairing at the suffering parent's bed, and
blessed at length with a firm promise of amendment and recovery, can tell the feelings that
sustained my fluttering heart, beating more anxiously the nearer it approached its home. I
woke that morning with the lark--yes, ere that joyous bird had spread its wing, and broke upon
the day with its mad note--and I left the doctor's house whilst all within were sleeping. There
was no rest for me away from that abode, whose gates of adamant, with all their bars and fastenings,
one magic word had opened--whose sentinels were withdrawn--whose terrors had departed. The
hours were all too long until I claimed my newfound privilege. Morn of the mellow summer, how
beautiful is thy birth! How soft--how calm--how breathlessly and blushingly thou stealest upon
a slumbering world! fearful, as it seems, of startling it. How deeply quiet, and how soothing,
are thy earliest sounds--scarce audible--by no peculiar quality distinguishable, yet thrilling
and intense! How doubly potent falls thy witching influence on him whose spirit passion has
attuned to all the harmonies of earth, and made but too susceptible! Disturbed as I was by
the anticipation of my joy, and by the consequent unrest, with the first sight of day, and
all its charms, came peace--actual and profound. The agitation of my soul was overwhelmed by
the prevailing stillness, and I grew tranquil and subdued. Love existed yet--what could extinguish
that?--but heightened and sublimed. It was as though, in contemplating the palpable and lovely
work of heaven, all selfishness had at once departed from my breast--all dross had separated
from my best affections, and left them pure and free. And so I walked on, happiest of the happy,
from field to field, from hill to hill, with no companion on the way, no traveller within my
view--alone with nature and my heart's delight. "And men pent up in cities," thought I, as
I went along, "would call this--solitude." I remembered how lonely I had felt in the busy crowds
of London--how chill, how desolate and forlorn, and marvelled at the reasoning of man. And
came no other thoughts of London and the weary hours passed there, as I proceeded on my delightful
walk? Yes, many, as Heaven knows, who heard the involuntary matin prayer, offered in gratefulness
of heart, upon my knees, and in the open fields, where no eye but one could look upon the worshipper,
and call the fitness of the time and place in question. The early mowers were soon a-foot;
they saluted me and passed. Then, from the humblest cottages issued the straight thin column
of white smoke--white as the snowy cloud--telling of industry within, and the return of toil.
Now labourers were busy in their garden plots, labouring for pleasure and delight, ere they
strove abroad for hire, their children at their side, giving the utmost of their small help--young,
ruddy, wild, and earnest workmen all! The country day is up some hours before the day in town.
Life sleeps in cities, whilst it moves in active usefulness away from them. The hills were
dotted with the forms of men before I reached the parsonage, and when I reached it, a golden
lustre from the mounting sun lit up the lovely house with fire--streaming through the casements
already opened to the sweet and balmy air.

If I had found it difficult to rest on this eventful morning, so also had another--even here--in
this most peaceful mansion. The parsonage gate was at this early hour unclosed. I entered.
Upon the borders of the velvet lawn, bathed in the dews of night, I beheld the gentle lady
of the place; she was alone, and walking pensively--now stooping, not to pluck, but to admire,
and then to leave amongst its mates, some crimson beauty of the earth--now looking to the mountains
of rich gold piled in the heavens, one upon another, changing in form and colour, blending
and separating, as is their wondrous power and custom, filling the maiden's soul with joy.
Her back was toward me: should I advance, or now retire? Vain question, when, ere an answer
could be given, I was already at the lady's side. Shall I tell of her virgin bashfulness, her
blushes, her trembling consciousness of pure affection? Shall I say how little her tongue could
speak her love, and how eloquently the dropping tear told all! Shall I describe our morning's
walk, her downward gaze--my pride?--her deep, deep silence, my impassioned tones, the insensibilty
to all external things--the rushing on of envious Time, jealous of the perfect happiness of
man? The heart is wanting for the task--the pen is shaking in the tremulous hand.--Beautiful
vision! long associate of my rest, sweetener of the daily cares of life, shade of the heavenly
one--beloved Ellen! hover still around me, and sustain my aching soul--carry me back to the
earliest days of our young love, quicken every moment with enthusiasm--be my fond companion
once again, and light up the old man's latest hour with the fire that ceased to burn when thou
fleed'st heavenward! Thou hast been near me often since we parted here! Whose smile but thine
has cheered the labouring pilgrim through the lagging day? In tribulation, whose voice has
whispered peace--whose eye hath shone upon him, like a star, tranquil and steady in the gloomy
night? Linger yet, and strengthen and hallow the feeble words, that chronicle our love!

It would be impossible to conceive a woman more eminently fitted to fulfil the duties of her
station, than the gentle creature whose heart it had been my happiness and fortune to make
my own. Who could speak so well of the daughter's obedience as he who was the object of her
hourly solicitude? Who could behold her tenderness, her watchfulness and care and not revere
the filial piety that sanctified the maid? The poor, most difficult of mankind to please, the
easily offended, the jealous and the peevish, were unanimous in their loud praise of her, whose
presence filled the foulest hut with light, and was the harbinger of good. It is well to doubt
the indigent when they speak evil of their fellows; but trust them when, with one voice, they
pray for blessings, as they did for her, who came amongst them as a sister and a child. If
a spotless mind be a treasure in the wife, if simplicity and truth, virtue and steadfast love,
are to be prized in her who plights her troth to man, what had I more to ask--what had kind
nature more to grant?

Had all my previous sufferings been multiplied a hundred times, I should have been indemnified
for all in the month that followed my restoration to the parsonage. Evening after evening,
when the business of the day was closed, did we together wander amongst the scenes that were
so dear to us--too happy in the enjoyment of the present, dwelling with pleasure on the past,
dreaming wildly--as the young must dream--of the uncreated future. I spoke of earthly happiness,
and believed it not a fable. What could be brighter than our promises? What looked more real--less
likely to be broken? How sweet was our existence! My tongue would never cease to paint in dazzling
colours the days that yet awaited us. I numbered over the joys of a domestic life, told her
of the divine favour that accompanies contentment, and how angels of heaven hover over the
house in which it dwells united to true love. Nor was there wanting extravagant and fanciful
discourse, such as may be spoken by the prodigal heart to its co-mate, when none are by to
smile and wonder at blind feeling.

"Dear Ellen," have I said, in all the fulness of my passion--"what a life is this we lead!
what heavenly joy! To be for ever only as we are, were to have more of God's kindness and beloved
care than most of earthly creatures may. Indissolubly joined, and in each other's light to
live, and in each other's sight alone to seek those blessings wedded feelings may bestow--to
perceive and know ourselves as one--to breathe as one the ripe delicious air--to fix on every
object of our mutual love the stamp and essence of one living heart--to walk abroad, and find
glad sympathy in all created things--this, this is to be conscious of more lasting joy--to
have more comfort in the sight of God, than they did know, the happy parent pair, when heaven
smiled on earth, and earth was heaven, connected both by tenderest links of love."

She did not answer, when my soul ran riot in its bliss. She listened, and she sighed, as though
experience cut off the promises of hope, or as if intimations of evil began already to cast
their shadows, and to press upon her soul!

Time flew as in a dream. The sunny days passed on, finding and leaving me without a trouble
or a fear--happy and entranced. Each hour discovered new charms in my betrothed, and every
day unveiled a latent grace. How had I merited my great good fortune? How could I render myself
worthy of her love? It was not long before the object of my thoughts, sleeping and waking,
became a living idol, and I, a reckless worshipper.

Doctor Mayhew had been a faithful friend, and such he continued, looking to the interests of
the friendless, which might have suffered in the absence of so good an advocate. It was he,
as I learnt, who had drawn from the incumbent his reluctant consent to my return. My departure
following my thoughtless declaration so quickly, was not without visible effect on her who
had such deep concern in it. Her trouble was not lost upon the experienced doctor; he mentioned
his suspicion to her father, and recommended my recall. The latter would not listen to his
counsel, and pronounced his diagnosis hasty and incorrect. The physician bade him wait. The
patient did not rally, and her melancholy increased. The doctor once more interceded, but not
successfully. Mr Fairman received his counsel with a hasty word, and Dr Mayhew left the parsonage
in anger, telling the minister he would himself be answerable no longer for her safety. A week
elapsed, and Doctor Mayhew found it impossible to keep away. The old friends met, more attached
than ever for the parting which both had found it difficult to bear. The lady was no better.
They held a conference--it ended in my favour. I had been exactly a month reinstated, when
Doctor Mayhew, who could not rest thoroughly easy until our marriage was concluded, and, as
he said, "the affair was off his hands," took a convenient opportunity to intimate to Mr Fairman
the many advantages of an early union. The minister was anxious to postpone the ceremony to
a distant period, which he had not courage himself to name. This Mayhew saw, and was well satisfied
that, if my happiness depended on the word of the incumbent, I should wait long before I heard
it voluntarily given. He told me so, and undertook "to bring the matter to a head" with all
convenient speed. He met with a hundred objections, for all of which he was prepared. He heard
his friend attentively, and with great deference, and then he answered. What his answers were,
I cannot tell--powerful his reasoning must have been, since it argued the jealous parent into
the necessity of arranging for an early marriage, and communicating with me that same day upon
the views which he had for our future maintenance and comfort.

Nothing could exceed the gratification of Doctor Mayhew, that best and most successful of ambassadors,
when he ran to me--straight from the incumbent's study--to announce the perfect success of
his diplomacy. Had he been negotiating for himself, he could not have been in higher spirits.
Ellen was with me when he acquainted me, that in three months the treasure would be my own,
and mine would be the privilege and right to cherish it. He insisted that he should be rewarded
on the instant with a kiss; and, in the exuberance of his feelings, was immodest enough to
add, that "if he wasn't godfather to the first, and if we did not call him Jacob after him,
he'd give us over to our ingratitude, and not have another syllable to say to us."

It was a curious occupation to contemplate the parent during the weeks that followed--to observe
all-powerful nature working in him, the chastened and the upright minister of heaven, as she
operates upon the weakest and the humblest of mankind. He lived for the happiness and prosperity
of his child. For that he was prepared to make every sacrifice a father might--even the greatest--that
of parting with her. Was it to be expected that he should be insensible to the heavy cost?
Could it be supposed that he would all at once resign the dear one without a quiver or a pang?
There is a tremor of the soul as well as of the body, when the knife is falling on the limb
to sever it, and this he suffered, struggling for composure as a martyr, and yet with all the
weakness of a man. I have watched him closely, and I have known his heart wringing with pain,
as the eye of his child sparkled with joy at my approach, whilst the visible features of his
face strove fiercely to suppress the rising selfishness. He has gazed upon her, as we have
sat together in the cheerful night, wondering, as it seemed, by what fascination the natural
and deep-rooted love of years could be surpassed and superseded by the immature affection of
a day--forgetful of her mother's love, that once preferred him to her sire. In our evening
walks I have seen him in our track, following from afar, eager to overtake and join us, and
yet resisting the strong impulse, and forbearing. He could not hide from me the glaring fact,
that he was envious of my fortune, manifest as it was in every trifling act; nor was it, in
truth, easier for him to conceal the strong determination which he had formed to act with honour
and with justice. No angry or reproachful word escaped his lips; every favour that he could
show me he gladly proffered; nay, many uncalled-for and unexpected, he insisted upon my receiving,
apparently, or, as I guessed, because he wished to mortify his own poor heart, and to remove
from me the smallest cause for murmuring or complaint. I endeavoured not to be unworthy of
his liberality and confidence; and the daughter, who perceived the conflict in his breast,
redoubled her attention, and made more evident her unimpaired and childlike love.

It wanted but a month to the time fixed for our union, when Ellen reached her twentieth year.
On that occasion, Doctor Mayhew dined with us, and passed the evening at the parsonage. He
was in high spirits; and the minister himself more gay than I had known him since our engagement.
Ellen reflected her father's cheerfulness, and was busy in sustaining it. All went merry as
a marriage-bell. Ellen sang her father's favourite airs--played the tunes that pleased him
best, and acquired new energy and power as she proceeded. The parent looked upon her with just
pride, and took occasion, when the music was at its loudest, to turn to Mayhew, and to speak
of her.

"How well she looks!" said he; "how beautiful she grows!"

"Yes," answered the physician; "I don't wonder that she made young Stukely's heart ache. What
a figure the puss has got!"

"And her health seems quite restored!"

