That whistle appeared to resolve the doubts of the dogs instantly. They growled menacingly
and sprang away like the wind. Rufus saw them run across the pasture to the woods, and afterward,
for some minutes, heard them washing themselves in the brook, as roguish, sheep-killing dogs
always do before returning home.

But in this case the dogs appeared to know that they had been detected, and that so far as
their characters as good and virtuous dogs went, the game was up. Not one of them returned
home. All four took to the woods, and thereafter lived predatory lives. They were aware of
the gravity of their offenses.

During October and early November they were heard of as a pack of bad sheep-killers, time and
again; but they now followed their evil practices at a distance from their former homes, where,
indeed, the farmers took the precaution of carefully guarding their sheep. On one night of
October they killed three calves in a farmer's field, four miles from the Frost farm. Several
parties set off to hunt them, but they escaped and lived as outlaws, subsisting from nocturnal
forays until snow came, when they were tracked to a den beneath a high crag, called the "Overset,"
up in the great woods.

It was Rufus Frost and Emerson Needham, the former owner of Bender, who tracked the band to
their retreat. Finding it impossible to call or drive the criminals out, they blocked the entrance
of the den with large stones, and then came home to devise some way of destroying them--since
it is a pretty well-established fact that when once a dog has relapsed into the savage habits
of his wild ancestry he can never be reclaimed.

Someone had suggested suffocating the dogs with brimstone fumes; and so, early the following
morning, Rufus and Emerson, heading a party of fifteen men and boys, came to the Edwards farm
and the Old Squire's to get brimstone rolls, which we had on account of our bees. Their coming,
on such an errand, carried a wave of excitement with it. Old Hewey Glinds, the trapper, was
sent for and joined the party, in spite of his rheumatism. Every boy in the neighborhood begged
earnestly to go; and the most of us, on one plea and another, obtained permission to do so.

All told, I believe, there were thirty-one in the party, not counting dogs. Entering the woods
we proceeded first to Stoss Pond, then through Black Ash Swamp, and thence over a mountainous
wooded ridge to Overset Pond.

In fact we seemed to be going to the remote depths of the wilderness; and what a savage aspect
the snowy evergreen forest wore that morning! At last, we came out on the pond. Very black
it looked, for it was what is called a "warm pond." Ice had not yet formed over it. The snow-clad
crag where the cave was, on the farther side, loomed up, ghostly white by contrast.

Rufus and Emerson had gone ahead and were there in advance of us; they shouted across to us
that the dogs had not escaped. We then all hurried on over snowy stones and logs to reach the
place.

It was a gruesome sort of den, back under an overhang of rocks fully seventy feet high. Near
the dark aperture which the boys had blocked, numbers of freshly gnawed bones lay in the snow,
which presented a very sinister appearance.

Those in advance had already kindled a fire of drift-stuff not far away on the shore. The hounds
and dogs which had come with the party, scenting the outlaw dogs in the cave, were barking
noisily; and from within could be heard a muffled but savage bay of defiance.

"That's old Bender!" exclaimed Emerson. "And he knows right well, too, that his time's come!"

"Suppose they will show fight?" several asked.

"Fight! Yes!" cried old Hewey, who had now hobbled up. "They'll fight wuss than any wild critters!"

One of the older boys, Ransom Frost, declared that he was not afraid to take a club and go
into the cave.

"Don't you think of such a thing!" exclaimed old Hewey. "Tham's desperate dogs! They'd pitch
onto you like tigers! Tham dogs know there's no hope for them, and they're going to fight--if
they get the chance!"

It was a difficult place to approach, and several different plans of attack were proposed.
When the two hounds and three dogs which had come up with us barked and scratched at the heavy,
flat stones which Rufus and Emerson had piled in the mouth of the cave, old Bender and Tige
would rush forward on their side of the obstruction, with savage growls. Yet when Rufus or
any of the others attempted to steal up with their guns, to shoot through the chinks, the outlaws
drew back out of sight, in the gloom. There was a fierceness in their growling such as I never
have heard from other dogs.

The owner of Watch, the collie, now crept up close and called to his former pet. "I think I
can call my dog out," said he.

He called long and endearingly, "Come, Watch! Come, good fellow! You know me, Watch! Come out!
Come, Watch, come!"

But the outlawed Watch gave not a sign of recognition or affection; he stood with the band.

Tige's former master then tried the same thing, but elicited only a deep growl of hostility.

"Oh, you can whistle and call, but you won't get tham dogs to go back on one another!" chuckled
old Hewey. "Tham dogs have taken an oath together. They won't trust ye and I swan I wouldn't
either, if I was in their places! They know you are Judases!"

It was decided that the brimstone should be used. Live embers from the fire were put in the
kettle. Green, thick boughs were cut from fir-trees hard by; and then, while the older members
of the party stood in line in front of the hole beneath the rocks, to strike down the dogs
if they succeeded in getting out, Rufus and Emerson removed a part of the stones, and with
some difficulty introduced the kettle inside, amidst a chorus of ugly growls from the beleaguered
outlaws. The brimstone was then put into the kettle, more fire applied, and the hole covered
quickly with boughs. And now even we younger boys were allowed to bear a hand, scraping up
snow and piling it over the boughs, the better to keep in the smoke and fumes.

The splutter of the burning sulphur could plainly be heard through the barrier, and also the
loud, defiant bark of old Bender and the growls of Tige.

Very soon the barking ceased, and there was a great commotion, during which we heard the kettle
rattle. This was succeeded presently by a fierce, throaty snarling of such pent-up rage that
chills ran down the backs of some of us as we listened. After a few minutes this, too, ceased.
For a little space there was complete silence; then began the strangest sound I ever heard.

It was like the sad moaning of the stormy wind, as we sometimes hear it in the loose window
casements of a deserted house. Hardly audible at first, it rose fitfully, moaning, moaning,
then sank and rose again. It was not a whine, as for pity or mercy, but a kind of canine farewell
to life: the death-song of the outlaws. This, too, ceased after a time; but old Hewey did not
advise taking away the boughs for fifteen or twenty minutes. "Make a sure job on't," he said.

Choking fumes issued from the cave for some time after it was opened and the stones pulled
away. Bender was then discovered lying only a few feet back from the entrance. He appeared
to have dashed the kettle aside, as if seeking to quench the fire and smoke. Tige was close
behind him, Watch farther back. Very stark and grim all four looked when finally they were
hauled out with a pole and hook and given a finishing shot.

It was thought best to burn the bodies of the outlaws. The fire on the shore was replenished
with a great quantity of drift-wood, fir boughs and other dry stuff which we gathered, and
the four carcasses heaved up on the pile. It was a calm day, but thick, dark clouds had by
this time again overspread the sky, causing the pond to look still blacker. The blaze gained
headway; and a dense column of smoke and sparks rose straight upward to a great height. Owing
to the snow and the darkening heavens, the fire wore a very ruddy aspect, and I vividly recall
how its melancholy crackling was borne along the white shore, as we turned away and retraced
our steps homeward. Gram and the girls made extensive preparations for it and intended to have
a fine dinner. Besides the turkey and chickens there were "spareribs" and great frying-panfuls
of fresh pork which, at this cold season of the year, was greatly relished by us. On this present
Thanksgiving-day, two of Gram's nephews and their wives were expected to visit us, as also
several cousins of whom I had heard but vaguely.

It chanced, too, that on this occasion we had especially good reason to be thankful that we
were alive to eat a Thanksgiving dinner of any kind, as I will attempt to relate. Up to the
day before Thanksgiving the weather, with the exception of two light snow storms, had been
bright and pleasant, and the snow had speedily gone off. On that day there came a change. The
Indian-summer mildness disappeared. The air was very still, but a cold, dull-gray haze mounted
into the sky and deepened and darkened. All warmth went out from beneath it. There was a kind
of stone-cold chill in the air which made us shiver.

"Boys, there's a 'snow bank' rising," the Old Squire remarked at dinner. "The ground will close
for the winter. Glad we put those boughs round the house yesterday and banked up the out-buildings."

The sky continued to darken as the vast, dim pall of leaden-gray cloud overspread it, and cold,
raw gusts of wind began to sigh ominously from the northeast. Gramp at length came out where
we were wheeling in the last of the stove-wood. "Have you seen the sheep to-day?" he asked
Addison. "There is a heavy snow storm coming on. The flock must be driven to the barn."

None of us had seen the sheep for several days; the flock had been ranging about; and Halse
ran over to the Edwardses to learn whether they were there, but immediately returned, with
Thomas who told us that he had seen our sheep in the upper pasture, early that morning, and
theirs with them.

Immediately then we four boys rigged up in our thickest old coats and mittens, and set off--with
salt dish--to get the sheep home. The storm had already obscured the distant mountains to eastward
when we started; and never have I seen Mt. Washington and the whole Presidential Range so blackly
silhouetted against the westerly sky as on that afternoon, from the uplands of the sheep pasture.

The pasture was a large one, containing nearly a hundred acres, and was partially covered by
low copses of fir. Seeing nothing of the sheep there, we followed the fences around, then looked
in several openings which, like bays, or fiords, extended up into the southerly border of the
"great woods." And all the while Tom, who was bred on a farm and habituated to the local dialect
concerning sheep, was calling, "Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan." But no answering ba-a-a
was heard.

"They are not here," Addison exclaimed at length. "The whole flock has gone off somewheres."

"Most likely to 'Dunham's open,'" said Tom, "and that's two miles; but I know the way. Come
on. We've got to get them."

We set off at a run, following Thomas along a trail through the forest across the upper valley
of the Robbins Brook, but had not gone more than a mile when the storm came on, not large snowflakes,
but thick and fine, driven by wind. It came with a sudden darkening of the woods and a strange
deep sound, not the roar of a shower, but like a vast elemental sigh from all the surrounding
hills and mountains. The wind rumbled in the high, bare tree-tops and the icy pellets sifted
down through the bare branches and rattled inclemently on the great beds of dry leaves.

"Shall we go back?" exclaimed Halse.

"No, no; come on!" Thomas exclaimed. "We've got to get those sheep in to-night."

We ran on; but the forest grew dim and obscure. "I think we have gone wrong," Addison said.
"I 'most think we have," Thomas admitted. "I ought to have taken that other path, away back
there." He turned and ran back, and we followed to where another forest path branched easterly;
and here, making a fresh start, we hastened on again for fifteen or twenty minutes.

"Oughtn't we to be pretty near Dunham's open?" demanded Addison.

"Oh, I guess we will come to it," replied Tom. "It is quite a good bit to go."

Thereupon we ran on again for some time, and crossed two brooks. By this time the storm had
grown so blindingly thick that we could see but a few yards in any direction. Still we ran
on; but not long after, we came suddenly on the brink of a deep gorge which opened out to the
left on a wide, white, frozen pond. Below us a large brook was plunging down the "apron" of
a log dam.

Thomas now pulled up short, in bewilderment. Addison laughed. "Do you know where you are?"
said he. "Tom, that is Stoss Pond and Stoss Pond stream. There's the log dam and the old camp
where Adger's gang cut spruce last winter. I know it by those three tall pine stubs over yonder."

Tom looked utterly confused. "Then we are five miles from home," he said, at length.

"We had better go back, too, as quick as we can!" Halse exclaimed, shivering. "It's growing
dark! The ground is covered with snow, now!"

Addison glanced around in the stormy gloom and shook his head. "Tom," said he, "I don't believe
we can find our way back. In fifteen minutes more we couldn't see anything in the woods. We
had better get inside that camp and build a fire in the old cook-stove."

"I don't know but that we had," Tom assented. "It's an awful night. Only hear the wind howl
in the woods!"

We scrambled down the steep side of the gorge to the log camp, found the old door ajar and
pushed in out of the storm. There was a strange smell inside, a kind of animal odor. By good
fortune Addison had a few matches in the pocket of the old coat which he had worn, when we
went on the camping-trip to the "old slave's farm." He struck one and we found some dry stuff
and kindled a fire in the rusted stove. There were several logger's axes in the camp; and Tom
cut up a dry log for fuel; we then sat around the stove and warmed ourselves.

"I expect that the folks will worry about us," Thomas said soberly.

"Well, it cannot be helped," replied Addison.

"But we haven't a morsel to eat here," said Halse. "I'm awfully hungry, too."

Thereupon Tom jumped up and began rummaging, looking in two pork barrels, a flour barrel and
several boxes. "Not a scrap of meat and no flour," he exclaimed. "But here are a few quarts
of white beans in the bottom of this flour barrel; and we have got the sheep salt. What say
to boiling some beans? Here's an old kettle."

"Let's do it!" cried Halse.

A kettle of beans was put on and the fire kept up, as we sat around, for two or three hours.
Meantime the storm outside was getting worse. Fine snow was sifting into the old camp at all
the cracks and crevices. The cold, too, was increasing; the roaring of the forest was at times
awe-inspiring. On peeping out at the door, nothing could be discerned; snow like a dense white
powder filled the air. Already a foot of snow had banked against the door; the one little window
was whitened. Occasionally, above the roar in the tree-tops, could be heard a distant, muffled
crash, and Tom would exclaim, "There went a tree!"

We got our beans boiled passably soft, after awhile, and being very hungry were able to eat
a part of them, well salted. Boiled beans can be eaten, but they can never rank as a table luxury.

While chewing our beans, toward the end of the repast, an odd sound began to be heard, as of
some animal digging at the door, also snuffling, whimpering sounds. We listened for some moments.

"Boys, you don't suppose that's Tyro, do you?" cried Tom at length. "I'll bet it is! He has
taken my track and followed us away up here!"--and jumping up, Tom ran to the door. "Tyro"
was a small dog owned at the Edwards homestead.

When, however, he opened the door a little, there crept in, whimpering, not Tyro, but a small,
dark-colored animal, which the faint light given out from the stove scarcely enabled us to
identify. The creature ran behind the barrels; and Tom clapped the door to. Addison lighted
a splinter and we tried to see what it was; but it had run under the long bunk where the loggers
once slept. After a flurry, we drove it out in sight again, when Tom shouted that it was a
little "beezling" of a bear!

"Yes, sir-ee, that's a little runt of a bear cub," he cried. "He's been in this old camp before.
That's what made it smell so when we came in."

Addison imagined that this cub had run out when he heard us coming to the camp, but that the
severity of the storm had driven it back to shelter. It was truly a poor little titman of a
bear. At length we caught it and shut it under a barrel, placing a stone on the top head.

After our efforts cooking beans and the fracas with the "beezling bear," it must have been
eleven o'clock or past, before we lay down in the bunk. The wind was still roaring fearfully,
and the fine snow sifting down through the roof on our faces. In fact, the gale increased till
past midnight. Addison said that he would sit by the stove and keep fire. Tom, Halse and I
lay as snug as we could in the bunk, with our feet to the stove and presently fell asleep.

But soon a loud crack waked us, so harsh, so thrilling, that we started up. Addison had sprung
to his feet with an exclamation of alarm. One of those great pine tree-stubs up the bank-side,
above the camp, had broken short off in the gale. In falling, it swept down a large fir tree
with it. Next instant they both struck with so tremendous a crash, one on each side of the
camp, that the very earth trembled beneath the shock! The stove funnel came rattling down.
We had to replace it as best we could.

It was not till daylight, however, that we fully realized how narrowly we had escaped death.
A great tree trunk had fallen on each side of the camp, so near as to brush the eaves of the
low roof. Dry stubs of branches were driven deep into the frozen earth. Either trunk would
have crushed the old camp like an eggshell! The pine stub was splintered and split by its fall.
There was barely the width of the camp between the two trunks, as they lay there prone and
grim, in the drifted snow.

The gale slackened shortly after sunrise and the storm cleared in part; although snow still
spit spitefully till as late as ten o'clock.

"What a Thanksgiving-day!" grumbled Halse.

After a time we started for home, leaving the little bear shut up. As much as two feet of snow
had fallen on a level and the drifts in the hollows were much deeper. It was my first experience
of the great snow storms of Maine; my legs soon ached with wallowing, and my feet were distressingly
cold.

Our homeward progress was slow; none the less, Tom and Addison decided to go to Dunham's open,
which was nearly a mile off our direct course, to look for the sheep. Now that it was light,
they knew the way. Halse refused to go; and as my legs ached badly, he and I remained under
a large fir tree beside the path, the fan-shaped branches of which, like all the other evergreens,
were encrusted and loaded down by a white canopy.

Addison and Thomas set off and were gone for more than an hour, but had a large story to tell
when they rejoined us. Not only had they found the flock, snowbound, in Dunham's open, but
had seen two deer which had joined the sheep during the storm. The whole flock was in a copse
of firs, in the lee of the woods; and two loup-cerviers were sneaking about near by. Thomas
declared that their tracks were as large as his hand; and Addison said that they had trodden
a path in a semicircle around the flock.

We resumed our wallowing way home, but erelong heard a distant shout. Addison replied and immediately
we saw two men a long way off in the sheep pasture, advancing to meet us.

"I expect that one of them is my good dad," Thomas remarked dryly. "If I know my mother, she
has been worrying about this cub of hers all night."

It proved to be farmer Edwards, as Tom had surmised, and with him the Old Squire, himself.

"Well, well, well, boys, where have you been all night?" was their first salutation to us.

Addison gave a brief account of our adventure; we then proceeded homeward together, and were
in time for Gram's Thanksgiving dinner at three o'clock, for which it is needless to say that
we brought large appetites. But I recall that the pleasures of the table for me were somewhat
marred by my feet which continued to ache and burn painfully for two or three hours.

There was a snowdrift six feet in depth before the farmhouse piazza. The drifts indeed had
so changed the appearance of things around the house and yard that everything looked quite
strange to me.

None of the guests, whom we had expected to dinner, came, on account of the storm; but a rumor
of our adventure at the logging-camp had spread through the neighborhood; and at night, after
the road had been "broken" with oxen, sled and harrow, Ned Wilbur and his sisters, the Murch
boys, and also Tom and Catherine, called to pass the evening.

Perhaps the snow storm with its bewildering whiteness had turned our heads a little. That,
or something else, started us off, making rhymes. After great efforts, amidst much laughter
and profound knitting of brows, we produced what, in the innocence of youth, we called a poem!--an
epic, on our adventure. I still preserve the old scrawl of it, in several different youthful
hands, on crumpled sheets of yellowed paper. It has little value as poesy, but I would not
part with it for autograph copies of the masterpieces of Kipling, or Aldrich.

It must have been akin to snow-madness, for I remember that Thomas who never attempted a line
of poetry before, nor since, led off with the following stanzas:--

    "Four boys went off to look for sheep,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.
    And the trouble they had would make you weep,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.

    "They searched the pasture high and low,
    Then to Dunham's Open they tried to go.
    But the sky was dark and the wind did blow
    And the woods was dim with whirling snow.

    "They lost their way and got turned round,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny co'nan.
    It's a wonder now they ever were found.
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.

    "The storm howled round them wild and drear.
    Stoss Pond did then by chance appear.
    They all declared 'twas 'mazing queer.
    'We're lost,' said Captain Ad, 'I fear.'"

Then either Kate or Ellen put forth a fifth and sixth stanza:--

    "But Halse espied an old log camp,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.
    And into it they all did tramp,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.

    "'Here's beans,' said Tom. 'Here's salt,' said Ad.
    'Boiled beans don't go so very bad,
    When nothing else is to be had.
    Let's eat our beans and not be sad.'"

I cannot say, certainly, who was responsible for these next stanzas, but the handwriting is
a little like my own at that age.

    "They ate their beans and sang a song,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.
    And wished the night was not so long,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.

    "Said Ad, 'What makes that whining noise?'
    'By jinks!' cried Tom, 'That's Tyro, boys!'
    But when he looked, without a care,
    In crawled a little beezling bear!"

There is a great deal more, not less than twenty stanzas; but a few will suffice. Besides,
too, I shrink from presenting the more faulty ones. To strangers they will be merely the immature
efforts of nameless young folks; but for me a halo of memories glorifies each halting versicle.
The one where the tree fell runs as follows. It was Addison's; and in his now distant home,
he will anathematize me for exposing his youthful bad grammar.

    "But the night grew wild and wilder still,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.
    The forest roared like an old grist-mill,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.

    "At last there came a fearful crack!
    A big pine tree had broke its back.
    Down it fell, with a frightful smack!
    And missed the camp by just a snack!"

Theodora alone made a stanza or two more in keeping with that finer sentiment which the occasion
might have inspired in us.

    "And we who sat and watched at home,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan;
    And wondered why they did not come,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.
    What dread was ours through that long night,
    That they had perished was our fear,
    Scarce could we check the anxious tear,
    Nor slept at all till morning light.

    "But safe from storm and falling tree,
    Co'day, co'day, co'nanny, co'nan.
    Their faces dear again we see,
    Co'day, co'day co'nanny, co'nan.
    They slept mid perils all unseen,
    Some Guardian Hand protecting well;
    E'en though the mighty tree trunks fell,
    The little camp stood safe between."

After dinner, Mr. Edwards with Asa Doane went after the sheep, and by tramping a path in advance
of the flock, drove them home to the barns.

Next day Asa and Halse took a bushel basket, with a bran sack to tie over it, and went to Adger's
camp, to liberate and fetch home the little "beezling bear," but found that bruin junior had
upset the barrel and made his escape.

THE END OF BOOK FIRST.

    +---------------------------------------+
    |          Transcriber's Note           |
    |                                       |
    | Page 191 murk changed to Murch        |
    | Page 344 defence changed to defense   |
    | Page 405 offences changed to offenses |
    +---------------------------------------+