There were, in the list of aero engines compiled in 1910, five rotary engines included, all
air-cooled. Three of these were Gnome engines, and two of the make known as 'International.'
They ranged from 21.5 to 123 horse-power, the latter being rated at only 1.8 lbs. weight per
brake horse-power, and having fourteen cylinders, 4.33 inches in diameter by 4.7 inches stroke.
By 1914 forty-three different sizes and types of rotary engine were being constructed, and
in 1913 five rotary type engines were entered for the series of aeroplane engine trials held
in Germany. Minor defects ruled out four of these, and only the German Bayerischer Motoren
Flugzeugwerke completed the seven-hour test prescribed for competing engines. Its large fuel
consumption barred this engine from the final trials, the consumption being some 0.95 pints
per horse-power per hour. The consumption of lubricating oil, also was excessive, standing
at 0.123 pint per horse-power per hour. The engine gave 37.5 effective horse-power during its
trial, and the loss due to air resistance was 4.6 horse-power, about 11 per cent. The accompanying
drawing shows the construction of the engine, in which the seven cylinders are arranged radially
on the crank case; the method of connecting the pistons to the crank pins can be seen. The
mixture is drawn through the crank chamber, and to enter the cylinder it passes through the
two automatic valves in the crown of the piston; the exhaust valves are situated in the tops
of the cylinders, and are actuated by cams and push-rods. Cooling of the cylinder is assisted
by the radial rings, and the diameter of these rings is increased round the hottest part of
the cylinder. When long flights are undertaken the advantage of the light weight of this engine
is more than counterbalanced by its high fuel and lubricating oil consumption, but there are
other makes which are much better than this seven-cylinder German in respect of this.

Rotation of the cylinders in engines of this type is produced by the side pressure of the pistons
on the cylinder walls, and in order to prevent this pressure from becoming abnormally large
it is necessary to keep the weight of the piston as low as possible, as the pressure is produced
by the tangential acceleration and retardation of the piston. On the upward stroke the circumferential
velocity of the piston is rapidly increased, which causes it to exert a considerable tangential
pressure on the side of the cylinder, and on the return stroke there is a corresponding retarding
effect due to the reduction of the circumferential velocity of the piston. These side pressures
cause an appreciable increase in the temperatures of the cylinders and pistons, which makes
it necessary to keep the power rating of the engines fairly low.

Seguin designed his first Gnome rotary as a 34 horse-power engine when run at a speed of 1,300
revolutions per minute. It had five cylinders, and the weight was 3.9 lbs. per horse-power.
A seven-cylinder model soon displaced this first engine, and this latter, with a total weight
of 165 lbs., gave 61.5 horse-power. The cylinders were machined out of solid nickel chrome-steel
ingots, and the machining was carried out so that the cylinder walls were under 1/6 of an inch
in thickness. The pistons were cast-iron, fitted each with two rings, and the automatic inlet
valve to the cylinder was placed in the crown of the piston. The connecting rods, of 'H' section,
were of nickel chrome-steel, and the large end of one rod, known as the 'master-rod' embraced
the crank pin; on the end of this rod six hollow steel pins were carried, and to these the
remaining six connecting-rods were attached. The crankshaft of the engine was made of nickel
chrome-steel, and was in two parts connected together at the crank pin; these two parts, after
the master-rod had been placed in position and the other connecting rods had been attached
to it, were firmly secured. The steel crank case was made in five parts, the two central ones
holding the cylinders in place, and on one side another of the five castings formed a cam-box,
to the outside of which was secured the extension to which the air-screw was attached. On the
other side of the crank case another casting carried the thrust-box, and the whole crank case,
with its cylinders and gear, was carried on the fixed crank shaft by means of four ball-bearings,
one of which also took the axial thrust of the air-screw.

For these engines, castor oil is the lubricant usually adopted, and it is pumped to the crankshaft
by means of a gear-driven oil pump; from this shaft the other parts of the engine are lubricated
by means of centrifugal force, and in actual practice sufficient unburnt oil passes through
the cylinders to lubricate the exhaust valve, which partly accounts for the high rate of consumption
of lubricating oil. A very simple carburettor of the float less, single-spray type was used,
and the mixture was passed along the hollow crankshaft to the interior of the crank case, thence
through the automatic inlet valves in the tops of the pistons to the combustion chambers of
the cylinders. Ignition was by means of a high-tension magneto specially geared to give the
correct timing, and the working impulses occurred at equal angular intervals of 102.85 degrees.
The ignition was timed so that the firing spark occurred when the cylinder was 26 degrees before
the position in which the piston was at the outer end of its stroke, and this timing gave a
maximum pressure in the cylinder just after the piston had passed this position.

By 1913, eight different sizes of the Gnome engine were being constructed, ranging from 45
to 180 brake horse-power; four of these were single-crank engines one having nine and the other
three having seven cylinders. The remaining four were constructed with two cranks; three of
them had fourteen cylinders apiece, ranged in groups of seven, acting on the cranks, and the
one other had eighteen cylinders ranged in two groups of nine, acting on its two cranks. Cylinders
of the two-crank engines are so arranged (in the fourteen-cylinder type) that fourteen equal
angular impulses occur during each cycle; these engines are supported on bearings on both sides
of the engine, the air-screw being placed outside the front support. In the eighteen-cylinder
model the impulses occur at each 40 degrees of angular rotation of the cylinders, securing
an extremely even rotation of the air-screw.

In 1913 the Gnome Monosoupape engine was introduced, a model in which the inlet valve to the
cylinder was omitted, while the piston was of the ordinary cast-iron type. A single exhaust
valve in the cylinder head was operated in a manner similar to that on the previous Gnome engines,
and the fact of this being the only valve on the cylinder gave the engine its name. Each cylinder
contained ports at the bottom which communicated with the crank chamber, and were overrun by
the piston when this was approaching the bottom end of its stroke. During the working cycle
of the engine the exhaust valve was opened early to allow the exhaust gases to escape from
the cylinder, so that by the time the piston overran the ports at the bottom the pressure within
the cylinder was approximately equal to that in the crank case, and practically no flow of
gas took place in either direction through the ports. The exhaust valve remained open as usual
during the succeeding up-stroke of the piston, and the valve was held open until the piston
had returned through about one-third of its downward stroke, thus permitting fresh air to enter
the cylinder. The exhaust valve then closed, and the downward motion of the piston, continuing,
caused a partial vacuum inside the cylinder; when the piston overran the ports, the rich mixture
from the crank case immediately entered. The cylinder was then full of the mixture, and the
next upward stroke of the piston compressed the charge; upon ignition the working cycle was
repeated. The speed variation of this engine was obtained by varying the extent and duration
of the opening of the exhaust valves, and was controlled by the pilot by hand-operated levers
acting on the valve tappet rollers. The weight per horsepower of these engines was slightly
less than that of the two-valve type, while the lubrication of the gudgeon pin and piston showed
an improvement, so that a lower lubricating oil consumption was obtained. The 100 horse-power
Gnome Monosoupape was built with nine cylinders, each 4.33 inches bore by 5.9 inches stroke,
and it developed its rated power at 1,200 revolutions per minute.

An engine of the rotary type, almost as well known as the Gnome, is the Clerget, in which both
cylinders and crank case are made of steel, the former having the usual radial fins for cooling.
In this type the inlet and exhaust valves are both located in the cylinder head, and mechanically
operated by push-rods and rockers. Pipes are carried from the crank case to the inlet valve
casings to convey the mixture to the cylinders, a carburettor of the central needle type being
used. The carburetted mixture is taken into the crank case chamber in a manner similar to that
of the Gnome engine. Pistons of aluminium alloy, with three cast-iron rings, are fitted, the
top ring being of the obturator type. The large end of one of the nine connecting rods embraces
the crank pin and the pressure is taken on two ball-bearings housed in the end of the rod.
This carries eight pins, to which the other rods are attached, and the main rod being rigid
between the crank pin and piston pin determines the position of the pistons. Hollow connecting-rods
are used, and the lubricating oil for the piston pins passes from the crankshaft through the
centres of the rods. Inlet and exhaust valves can be set quite independently of one another--a
useful point, since the correct timing of the opening of these valves is of importance. The
inlet valve opens 4 degrees from top centre and closes after the bottom dead centre of the
piston; the exhaust valve opens 68 degrees before the bottom centre and closes 4 degrees after
the top dead centre of the piston. The magnetos are set to give the spark in the cylinder at
25 degrees before the end of the compression stroke--two high-tension magnetos are used: if
desired, the second one can be adjusted to give a later spark for assisting the starting of
the engine. The lubricating oil pump is of the valveless two-plunger type, so geared that it
runs at seven revolutions to 100 revolutions of the engine; by counting the pulsations the
speed of the engine can be quickly calculated by multiplying the pulsations by 100 and dividing
by seven. In the 115 horse-power nine-cylinder Clerget the cylinders are 4.7 bore with a 6.3
inches stroke, and the rated power of the engine is obtained at 1,200 revolutions per minute.
The petrol consumption is 0.75 pint per horse-power per hour.

A third rotary aero engine, equally well known with the foregoing two, is the Le Rhone, made
in four different sizes with power outputs of from 50 to 160 horse-power; the two smaller sizes
are single crank engines with seven and nine cylinders respectively, and the larger sizes are
of double-crank design, being merely the two smaller sizes doubled--fourteen and eighteen-cylinder
engines. The inlet and exhaust valves are located in the cylinder head, and both valves are
mechanically operated by one push-rod and rocker, radial pipes from crank case to inlet valve
casing taking the mixture to the cylinders. The exhaust valves are placed on the leading, or
air-screw side, of the engine, in order to get the fullest possible cooling effect. The rated
power of each type of engine is obtained at 1,200 revolutions per minute, and for all four
sizes the cylinder bore is 4.13 inches, with a 5.5 inches piston stroke. Thin cast-iron liners
are shrunk into the steel cylinders in order to reduce the amount of piston friction. Although
the Le Rhone engines are constructed practically throughout of steel, the weight is only 2.9
lbs. per horse-power in the eighteen-cylinder type.

American enterprise in the construction of the rotary type is perhaps best illustrated in the
'Gyro 'engine; this was first constructed with inlet valves in the heads of the pistons, after
the Gnome pattern, the exhaust valves being in the heads of the cylinders. The inlet valve
in the crown of each piston was mechanically operated in a very ingenious manner by the oscillation
of the connecting-rod. The Gyro-Duplex engine superseded this original design, and a small
cross-section illustration of this is appended. It is constructed in seven and nine-cylinder
sizes, with a power range of from 50 to 100 horse-power; with the largest size the low weight
of 2.5 lbs.. per horse-power is reached. The design is of considerable interest to the internal
combustion engineer, for it embodies a piston valve for controlling auxiliary exhaust ports,
which also acts as the inlet valve to the cylinder. The piston uncovers the auxiliary ports
when it reaches the bottom of its stroke, and at the end of the power stroke the piston is
in such a position that the exhaust can escape over the top of it. The exhaust valve in the
cylinder head is then opened by means of the push-rod and rocker, and is held open until the
piston has completed its upward stroke and returned through more than half its subsequent return
stroke. When the exhaust valve closes, the cylinder has a charge of fresh air, drawn in through
the exhaust valve, and the further motion of the piston causes a partial vacuum; by the time
the piston reaches bottom dead centre the piston-valve has moved up to give communication between
the cylinder and the crank case, therefore the mixture is drawn into the cylinder. Both the
piston valve and exhaust valve are operated by cams formed on the one casting, which rotates
at seven-eighths engine speed for the seven-cylinder type, and nine-tenths engine speed for
the nine-cylinder engines. Each of these cams has four or five points respectively, to suit
the number of cylinders.

The steel cylinders are machined from solid forgings and provided with webs for air-cooling
as shown. Cast-iron pistons are used, and are connected to the crankshaft in the same manner
as with the Gnome and Le Rhone engines. Petrol is sprayed into the crank case by a small geared
pump and the mixture is taken from there to the piston valves by radial pipes. Two separate
pumps are used for lubrication, one forcing oil to the crank-pin bearing and the other spraying
the cylinders.

Among other designs of rotary aero engines the E.J.C. is noteworthy, in that the cylinders
and crank case of this engine rotate in opposite directions, and two air-screws are used, one
being attached to the end of the crankshaft, and the other to the crank case. Another interesting
type is the Burlat rotary, in which both the cylinders and crankshaft rotate in the same direction,
the rotation of the crankshaft being twice that of the cylinders as regards speed. This engine
is arranged to work on the four-stroke cycle with the crankshaft making four, and the cylinders
two, revolutions per cycle.

It would appear that the rotary type of engine is capable of but little more improvement--save
for such devices as these of the last two engines mentioned, there is little that Laurent Seguin
has not already done in the Gnome type. The limitation of the rotary lies in its high fuel
and lubricating oil consumption, which renders it unsuited for long-distance aero work; it
was, in the war period, an admirable engine for such short runs as might be involved in patrol
work 'over the lines,' and for similar purposes, but the watercooled Vee or even vertical,
with its much lower fuel consumption, was and is to be preferred for distance work. The rotary
air-cooled type has its uses, and for them it will probably remain among the range of current
types for some time to come. Experience of matters aeronautical is sufficient to show, however,
that prophecy in any direction is most unsafe.

V. THE HORIZONTALLY-OPPOSED ENGINE

Among the first internal combustion engines to be taken into use with aircraft were those of
the horizontally-opposed four-stroke cycle type, and, in every case in which these engines
were used, their excellent balance and extremely even torque rendered them ideal-until the
tremendous increase in power requirements rendered the type too long and bulky for placing
in the fuselage of an aeroplane. As power increased, there came a tendency toward placing cylinders
radially round a central crankshaft, and, as in the case of the early Anzani, it may be said
that the radial engine grew out of the horizontal opposed piston type. There were, in 1910--that
is, in the early days of small power units, ten different sizes of the horizontally opposed
engine listed for manufacture, but increase in power requirements practically ruled out the
type for air work.

The Darracq firm were the leading makers of these engines in 1910; their smallest size was
a 24 horsepower engine, with two cylinders each of 5.1 inches bore by 4.7 inches stroke. This
engine developed its rated power at 1,500 revolutions per minute, and worked out at a weight
of 5 lbs. per horse-power. With these engines the cranks are so placed that two regular impulses
are given to the crankshaft for each cycle of working, an arrangement which permits of very
even balancing of the inertia forces of the engine. The Darracq firm also made a four-cylindered
horizontal opposed piston engine, in which two revolutions were given to the crankshaft per
revolution, at equal angular intervals.

The Dutheil-Chambers was another engine of this type, and had the distinction of being the
second largest constructed. At 1,000 revolutions per minute it developed 97 horse-power; its
four cylinders were each of 4.93 inches bore by 11.8 inches stroke--an abnormally long stroke
in comparison with the bore. The weight--which owing to the build of the engine and its length
of stroke was bound to be rather high, actually amounted to 8.2 lbs. per horse-power. Water
cooling was adopted, and the engine was, like the Darracq four-cylinder type, so arranged as
to give two impulses per revolution at equal angular intervals of crankshaft rotation.

One of the first engines of this type to be constructed in England was the Alvaston, a water-cooled
model which was made in 20, 30, and 50 brake horse-power sizes, the largest being a four-cylinder
engine. All three sizes were constructed to run at 1,200 revolutions per minute. In this make
the cylinders were secured to the crank case by means of four long tie bolts passing through
bridge pieces arranged across the cylinder heads, thus relieving the cylinder walls of all
longitudinal explosion stresses. These bridge pieces were formed from chrome vanadium steel
and milled to an 'H' section, and the bearings for the valve-tappet were forged solid with
them. Special attention was given to the machining of the interiors of the cylinders and the
combustion heads, with the result that the exceptionally high compression of 95 lbs. per square
inch was obtained, giving a very flexible engine. The cylinder heads were completely water-jacketed,
and copper water-jackets were also fitted round the cylinders. The mechanically operated valves
were actuated by specially shaped cams, and were so arranged that only two cams were required
for the set of eight valves. The inlet valves at both ends of the engine were connected by
a single feed-pipe to which the carburettor was attached, the induction piping being arranged
above the engine in an easily accessible position. Auxiliary air ports were provided in the
cylinder walls so that the pistons overran them at the end of their stroke. A single vertical
shaft running in ball-bearings operated the valves and water circulating pump, being driven
by spiral gearing from the crankshaft at half speed. In addition to the excellent balance obtained
with this engine, the makers claimed with justice that the number of working parts was reduced
to an absolute minimum.

In the two-cylinder Darracq, the steel cylinders were machined from solid, and auxiliary exhaust
ports, overrun by the piston at the inner end of its stroke, were provided in the cylinder
walls, consisting of a circular row of drilled holes--this arrangement was subsequently adopted
on some of the Darracq racing car engines. The water jackets were of copper, soldered to the
cylinder walls; both the inlet and exhaust valves were located in the cylinder heads, being
operated by rockers and push-rods actuated by cams on the halftime shaft driven from one end
of the crankshaft. Ignition was by means of a high-tension magneto, and long induction pipes
connected the-ends of the cylinders to the carburettor, the latter being placed underneath
the engine. Lubrication was effected by spraying oil into the crank case by means of a pump,
and a second pump circulated the cooling water.

Another good example of this type of engine was the Eole, which had eight opposed pistons,
each pair of which was actuated by a common combustion chamber at the centre of the engine,
two crankshafts being placed at the outer ends of the engine. This reversal of the ordinary
arrangement had two advantages; it simplified induction, and further obviated the need for
cylinder heads, since the explosion drove at two piston heads instead of at one piston head
and the top of the cylinder; against this, however, the engine had to be constructed strongly
enough to withstand the longitudinal stresses due to the explosions, as the cranks are placed
on the outer ends and the cylinders and crank-cases take the full force of each explosion.
Each crankshaft drove a separate air-screw.

This pattern of engine was taken up by the Dutheil-Chambers firm in the pioneer days of aircraft,
when the firm in question produced seven different sizes of horizontal engines. The Demoiselle
monoplane used by Santos-Dumont in 1909 was fitted with a two-cylinder, horizontally-opposed
Dutheil-Chambers engine, which developed 25 brake horse-power at a speed of 1,100 revolutions
per minute, the cylinders being of 5 inches bore by 5.1 inches stroke, and the total weight
of the engine being some 120 lbs. The crankshafts of these engines were usually fitted with
steel flywheels in order to give a very even torque, the wheels being specially constructed
with wire spokes. In all the Dutheil-Chambers engines water cooling was adopted, and the cylinders
were attached to the crank cases by means of long bolts passing through the combustion heads.

For their earliest machines, the Clement-Bayard firm constructed horizontal engines of the
opposed piston type. The best known of these was the 30 horse-power size, which had cylinders
of 4.7 inches diameter by 5.1 inches stroke, and gave its rated power at 1,200 revolutions
per minute. In this engine the steel cylinders were secured to the crank case by flanges, and
radiating ribs were formed around the barrel to assist the air-cooling. Inlet and exhaust valves
were actuated by push-rods and rockers actuated from the second motion shaft mounted above
the crank case; this shaft also drove the high-tension magneto with which the engine was fitted.
A ring of holes drilled round each cylinder constituted auxiliary ports which the piston uncovered
at the inner end of its stroke, and these were of considerable assistance not only in expelling
exhaust gases, but also in moderating the temperature of the cylinder and of the main exhaust
valve fitted in the cylinder head. A water-cooled Clement-Bayard horizontal engine was also
made, and in this the auxiliary exhaust ports were not embodied; except in this particular,
the engine was very similar to the water-cooled Darracq.

The American Ashmusen horizontal engine, developing 100 horse-power, is probably the largest
example of this type constructed. It was made with six cylinders arranged on each side of a
common crank case, with long bolts passing through the cylinder heads to assist in holding
them down. The induction piping and valve-operating gear were arranged below the engine, and
the half-speed shaft carried the air-screw.

Messrs Palons and Beuse, Germans, constructed a light-weight, air-cooled, horizontally-opposed
engine, two-cylindered. In this the cast-iron cylinders were made very thin, and were secured
to the crank case by bolts passing through lugs cast on the outer ends of the cylinders; the
crankshaft was made hollow, and holes were drilled through the webs of the connecting-rods
in order to reduce the weight. The valves were fitted to the cylinder heads, the inlet valves
being of the automatic type, while the exhaust valves were mechanically operated from the cam-shaft
by means of rockers and push-rods. Two carburettors were fitted, to reduce the induction piping
to a minimum; one was attached to each combustion chamber, and ignition was by the normal high-tension
magneto driven from the halftime shaft.

There was also a Nieuport two-cylinder air-cooled horizontal engine, developing 35 horse-power
when running at 1,300 revolutions per minute, and being built at a weight of 5.1 lbs. per horse-power.
The cylinders were of 5.3 inches diameter by 5.9 inches stroke; the engine followed the lines
of the Darracq and Dutheil-Chambers pretty closely, and thus calls for no special description.

The French Kolb-Danvin engine of the horizontal type, first constructed in 1905, was probably
the first two-stroke cycle engine designed to be applied to the propulsion of aircraft; it
never got beyond the experimental stage, although its trials gave very good results. Stepped
pistons were adopted, and the charging pump at one end was used to scavenge the power cylinder
at the other ends of the engine, the transfer ports being formed in the main casting. The openings
of these ports were controlled at both ends by the pistons, and the location of the ports appears
to have made it necessary to take the exhaust from the bottom of one cylinder and from the
top of the other. The carburetted mixture was drawn into the scavenging cylinders, and the
usual deflectors were cast on the piston heads to assist in the scavenging and to prevent the
fresh gas from passing out of the exhaust ports.

VI. THE TWO-STROKE CYCLE ENGINE

Although it has been little used for aircraft propulsion, the possibilities of the two-stroke
cycle engine render some study of it desirable in this brief review of the various types of
internal combustion engine applicable both to aeroplanes and airships. Theoretically the two-stroke
cycle engine--or as it is more commonly termed, the 'two-stroke,' is the ideal power producer;
the doubling of impulses per revolution of the crankshaft should render it of very much more
even torque than the four-stroke cycle types, while, theoretically, there should be a considerable
saving of fuel, owing to the doubling of the number of power strokes per total of piston strokes.
In practice, however, the inefficient scavenging of virtually every two-stroke cycle engine
produced nullifies or more than nullifies its advantages over the four-stroke cycle engine;
in many types, too, there is a waste of fuel gases through the exhaust ports, and much has
yet to be done in the way of experiment and resulting design before the two-stroke cycle engine
can be regarded as equally reliable, economical, and powerful with its elder brother.

The first commercially successful engine operating on the two-stroke cycle was invented by
Mr Dugald Clerk, who in 1881 proved the design feasible. As is more or less generally understood,
the exhaust gases of this engine are discharged from the cylinder during the time that the
piston is passing the inner dead centre, and the compression, combustion, and expansion of
the charge take place in similar manner to that of the four-stroke cycle engine. The exhaust
period is usually controlled by the piston overrunning ports in the cylinder at the end of
its working stroke, these ports communicating direct with the outer air--the complication of
an exhaust valve is thus obviated; immediately after the escape of the exhaust gases, charging
of the cylinder occurs, and the fresh gas may be introduced either through a valve in the cylinder
head or through ports situated diametrically opposite to the exhaust ports. The continuation
of the outward stroke of the piston, after the exhaust ports have been closed, compresses the
charge into the combustion chamber of the cylinder, and the ignition of the mixture produces
a recurrence of the working stroke.

Thus, theoretically, is obtained the maximum of energy with the minimum of expenditure; in
practice, however, the scavenging of the power cylinder, a matter of great importance in all
internal combustion engines, is often imperfect, owing to the opening of the exhaust ports
being of relatively short duration; clearing the exhaust gases out of the cylinder is not fully
accomplished, and these gases mix with the fresh charge and detract from its efficiency. Similarly,
owing to the shorter space of time allowed, the charging of the cylinder with the fresh mixture
is not so efficient as in the four-stroke cycle type; the fresh charge is usually compressed
slightly in a separate chamber--crank case, independent cylinder, or charging pump, and is
delivered to the working cylinder during the beginning of the return stroke of the piston,
while in engines working on the four-stroke cycle principle a complete stroke is devoted to
the expulsion of the waste gases of the exhaust, and another full stroke to recharging the
cylinder with fresh explosive mixture.

Theoretically the two-stroke and the four-stroke cycle engines possess exactly the same thermal
efficiency, but actually this is modified by a series of practical conditions which to some
extent tend to neutralise the very strong case in favour of the two-stroke cycle engine. The
specific capacity of the engine operating on the two-stroke principle is theoretically twice
that of one operating on the four-stroke cycle, and consequently, for equal power, the former
should require only about half the cylinder volume of the latter; and, owing to the greater
superficial area of the smaller cylinder, relatively, the latter should be far more easily
cooled than the larger four-stroke cycle cylinder; thus it should be possible to get higher
compression pressures, which in turn should result in great economy of working. Also the obtaining
of a working impulse in the cylinder for each revolution of the crankshaft should give a great
advantage in regularity of rotation--which it undoubtedly does--and the elimination of the
operating gear for the valves, inlet and exhaust, should give greater simplicity of design.

