On one occasion a bully, among the bigger boys, threw a timid little fellow into the lockpit
when full, saying “Now, you’ll learn to swim, or sink.”  The little fellow did sink, rose to
the surface, and sank again; and would certainly have been drowned, but a shout from other
indignant youngsters, looking helplessly on, brought the same Edward Sharpe to the rescue (he
was bathing below the lock, not aware of what was going on), and he at once plunged into the
lock, dived to the bottom (18 or 20 feet), and brought up the poor half-conscious boy, who
would otherwise have perished.

It may here be mentioned that the present writer once swam from the junction of the two branches
of the canal (close to the present bathing place) to the first lock, then passed on and swam
to the second, and so continuing, swam to the third lock, his clothes being carried by a school
fellow who accompanied him; this being a distance of some two miles, for this the Doctor rewarded
him with 10/- and a whole holiday.  He also, it may be added, as a reckless feat, when bathing,
leapt stark naked across the first lock; a performance which the slightest slip might have
made fatal.

Many are the anecdotes which could be here told of our adventures; as of policemen or keepers
eluded, or put off the scent, by various ruses, &c., &c., on our various marauding expeditions,
but I will mention only two more incidents.

From the same feelings of jealousy, doubtless, which produce the “Town and Gown” antagonism
at the University, there was much ill-feeling among the lower class of boys in the town towards
ourselves, and free fights occasionally occurred between them and the hated “bull-dogs.”  At
dusk stones were thrown at us, which it was difficult to avoid in the then badly lighted streets.
Sudden sorties were made from alleys, to take us unawares, and send us sprawling on the coggles.
Especially in snowy weather we were assailed with snowballs on our way from school to the Doctor’s
house, and although we stood shoulder to shoulder and made a spirited resistance, it not uncommonly
occurred that these missiles were (doubtless purposely) made to contain a piece of ice, or
even a sharp flint.  In one of these skirmishes the writer himself was struck on the temple,
his eye only just escaping, by a snowball, which a comrade picked up, on seeing that the wound
was bleeding, and a fragment of glass was found inside it; this, surely, an extreme illustration
of the principle that “all is lawful in war.”

One great event, of yearly re-occurrence, was our bonfire with fireworks, on the 5th of November.
Pocket money was hoarded up several weeks beforehand, to provide for the latter; some boys
even made their own squibs and crackers, and these were considerably larger and more formidable
than those which were bought.  The scene was usually a field on Langton Hill, which belonged
to the school.  Subscriptions were raised to purchase 100 faggots, locally called “kids;” but
here again our custom would, in strictness, have been condemned, for, in addition to the purchased
fuel, for sometime beforehand, we had been searching the hedges around, armed with axes, and
so had got together probably as much to which we had no right, as that which had been bought.
The bonfire was thus doubled in size, and made a blaze which, on the hill, would be seen for
many a mile.  We had a whole holiday to give us time to pile up the heap; and in the evening
parents and many other friends crowded to the field as spectators.  Sometimes a lighted balloon
or two, of varied colours, would be sent up, which were watched by the bright eyes of sisters
and cousins, until they were lost in the distance.

At length the conflagration was reduced to smouldering ashes, and all retired; but on our way
back to the school house there were often rough doings, between the town boys and bull-dogs;
free vent was given to spite, and a broken or bruised head, or body, might be the result; but
we made no complaint; as loyal subjects we had done our duty in protesting against all such
underhand doings as “Gunpowder Plot;” and, after a hearty supper, given by our kind Head Master,
we enjoyed the rest, well earned by the exertions and trials of the day.

We have now said enough of the school, its institutions and customs, under a regime which has
passed away, doubtless never to return; tempora mutantur.

Of the modern school we may here say that it is now doing useful work, although with a different
class of pupils to those above referred to; and in the near future, it is hoped, that further
changes will give it a still higher position in educational work.  Under Dr. A. G. Madge, who
retired and accepted church preferment in 1907, the school was made to meet the requirements
of the Oxford and Cambridge local examinations, the London University Matriculation, and the
South Kensington Science and Art Departments.

In late years boys from the school have filled posts in various parts of the world with credit.
A considerable number have obtained clerkships in banks, or in the Civil Service; one boy,
Richard Gordon Healey, passed 7th among more than a hundred candidates for the General Post
Office service, London, and is now in the excise service.  Another, Fairburn, is Assistant
Inspector of Police at Singapore.  Another, Isle, is a Civil Engineer, and has taken the B.Sc.
degree.  A summary of successes at the school, kindly supplied to the writer by Dr. Madge,
shows that in the last seven years (1906) five boys have passed the London University Matriculation,
19 the Cambridge local examination, 34 the South Kensington examination, while four have qualified
for the public Civil Service; a creditable result for a town of the size of Horncastle.

                [Picture: The Seal of the Grammar School]

A recent change has been the admission of pupil teachers to classes specially adapted to their
requirements, and with this accession to the numbers receiving instruction, there are now more
pupils in the school, male and female together, than at any period within the last 30 years.

The latest changes, in the direction of progress, have been as follows: A new governing body
has been created by the Board of Education, consisting of 13 members; the Lord of the Manor,
the Honble. R. Stanhope, being ex officio one of them; eight representative Governors holding
office for three years; two being appointed by the Lindsey County Council, three (one of them
a female) by the Urban Council, two by the Guardians, one by the Justices of the Peace at the
Lindsey Quarter Sessions.  There are also four co-optative Governors (among them one female
at least), appointed by the Governors for five years.  It is further ordered that the Head
Master need not be in Holy Orders; under which rule has been appointed the present Head Master,
Mr. Arthur N. Worman, B.A., London, late Assistant Master at King Edward VII. Grammar School,
King’s Lynn, who was selected by the Governors from 150 candidates for the post.

Addendum I.

It will have been observed that we have so far adopted the prevalent nomenclature, and spoken
of this school as an Elizabethan institution, founded in 1571.  It must now be added that,
venerable as that date of origin would make it, it has a higher claim to our veneration still.
Vixere fortes ante Agamemnona.  There were grammar schools before that date.  Edward VI. is
said to have established several, in various parts of the country, and we have already named
two such in our own neighbourhood, viz., those of Spilsby and Louth; but it is now known that
even these were, strictly speaking, revivals of still other institutions. It is now known that
not a few of the charities, or public institutions, supposed to have been founded by Queen
Elizabeth, were really of older date, but revived, confirmed, or augmented, under her wise
rule.  In a published account of the old grammar school of Giggleswick, Yorkshire, {106a} commonly
reputed to be a foundation of Edward VI., is the following statement, “a large number of schools
bear the name of Ed. VI., who undoubtedly desired to strengthen the grammar school system.
His good intentions were, however, frustrated by the Commissioners; and very few of the so-called
Edward VI. grammar schools had their origin in his reign, being older foundations with a new
name.” {106b}

It seems certain that Horncastle Grammar School is an analogous case. Documents have recently
been brought to light in the archives of the Dean and Chapter of Lincoln, which prove that,
acting for the Chancellor (who was ex officio “Magister Scholarum”), during a temporary vacancy
of that office, they appointed Masters to the grammar schools of Boston, Partney, Horncastle,
and elsewhere, in the year 1329; the Horncastle Master, so appointed, being one John of Beverley.
This mode of appointment being exceptional, was only to be valid for one year; but the Chancellorship
continuing vacant, the Masters were confirmed in their positions by the Dean and Chapter, in
the following year 1330, and again in 1331; and so on, in successive years. {106c}

Now this mode of appointment being only in lieu of appointment by the Chancellor, while his
office was in abeyance, it follows that these schools were in existence, as public institutions
under the Chancellor, before the dates named.  Although, therefore, we are unable to fix the
exact period of the school’s existence, it may be satisfactory for Horncastrians to know that,
in addition to the various interesting associations which we have already given as connected
with the school, there is proof that before Shakespeare had composed one of his immortal plays,
before Spenser had written a line of his Faerie Queen, before Bacon had even thought of his
Advancement of Learning, there had existed a “seat of learning” in the small provincial town
of Horncastle, which had then attained to the respectable age of more than two centuries.

We have been accustomed to consider the foundation of William of Wykeham, at Winchester, in
1373, as one at least of our very oldest, but Horncastle Grammar School may even be of still
earlier date than that. The oldest school of all is King’s School, Canterbury, attributed to
Archbishop Theodore, A.D. 670, but which may probably be traced to St. Augustine.  St. Peter’s
School, York, is the next oldest.

Addendum II.

The Governors of the Grammar School are about to erect, in this year, 1908, new and more commodious
premises for the school, in the grounds of what is now called “The Chestnuts,” near the west
end of West Street.

CHAPTER VII. WATSON’S FREE SCHOOL.

Next in importance to the Grammar School, and prior to the existence of the two well appointed
National Schools, Church and Wesleyan, possibly even of greater utility than at present, is
Watson’s Free Infant School; the founder of which placed it under the control of the Grammar
School.

The title deeds of this Institution are in the keeping of Mr. H. Tweed, Solicitor, who is Clerk
to the Governors; and from these we gather the following particulars of its history.  Richard
Watson in the latter half of the 18th century was a resident in, and a native of, Horncastle,
being the son of James Watson, who had made money by tanning, at that time a staple business
in the town.  Although engaged in trade he ranked with the resident gentry, his sister, Frances,
marrying James Conington, Esq., belonging to a family of good position, not only in the town,
but in the county; members of which have also distinguished themselves at the Universities,
the name still surviving.  She is referred to in an Indenture of date 22nd Sept., 25 George
III. (1785), as “Frances Conington, of Boston, widow, formerly Frances Watson, spinster, surviving
sister and heir of Richard Watson, late of Horncastle, gent., deceased, tanner, and his wife
Elizabeth.”  By her marriage she had a son Francis Conington, who as nephew of Richard Watson,
was the sole executor of his will and testament.  The principal deed has the following external
inscription: “Title deeds of the school, signed, sealed and delivered, by Benjamin Handley
(afterwards called “of New Sleaford”), {108a} in the presence of Williom Swallow, {108b} supervisor,
and Abraham Hanson, of Horncastle.”

The following is the heading within, “Sealed and delivered by Frances Conington, being first
duly stamped, in the presence of Caleb Preston, and Bowlin Kelsey of Boston.”  This is further
confirmed, as follows: “Sealed and delivered by Frances Conington, in the presence of William
Swallow, supervisor, and Abraham Hanson, of Horncastle.”

Then follows a “Release of lands in Lincolnshire to found a school (dated 22nd Sept., 1785),
inrolled in His Majesty’s High Court of Chancery, the 8th day of March, in the year of our
Lord 1786, being first duly stamped according to the tenor of the statutes made for that purpose.”
(Signed) Thomas Brigstock.

                       [Picture: The Market Place]

The seals attached to this are those of Frances Conington, James Conington and Benjamin Handley.
There is a note in the margin that “James Conington came before me this day, and acknowledged
this to be his deed, and prayed the same might be inrolled in His Majesty’s High Court of Chancery.
Robert Chapman, Master in Chancery.”  Dated 6th March, 1786.

The actual terms of Richard Watson’s will are these: “I am very desirous of establishing a
small school within the town of Horncastle, wherein the children of such poor persons, as the
Governors of the Grammar School shall think objects of charity, may be taught to read, knit,
spin, and plain needlework, or sewing.  I do therefore hereby earnestly request, will, and
direct, my nephew and executor, after my decease, by deed, conveyance (&c.), to convey, and
assure, to the said Governors, and their successors, for ever, all the lands situate in Croft,
and all those messuages, cottages, or tenements, within the yards and pingle adjoining, situate
in Far Street (now called West Street), Horncastle; and also that part of now inclosed arable,
meadow, and pasture ground, lying in Wigtoft, containing 6 acres, 28 perches, now in the occupation
of my cousin, William Watson, with appurtenances, upon the Trusts following, viz.: (1) to keep
the house (school) in good repair, and the residence (2) for the maintenance of a proper master
or mistress, to be from time to time nominated by them, to teach such poor children, &c.”

It is then added that “the said Richard Watson dying on Sept. 30 (1784), the said Frances and
James Conington, desirous to fulfil his bequest, agree to convey to the use of the said Governors,
the said messuages, &c.”  An Indenture is added, witnessing “that on payment by Benjamin Handley
of ten shillings to Frances and James Conington, they have granted, sold, and released” the
aforesaid property, and “appointed by these presents from the day next before the date of the
Indenture, all the said messuages, &c., called by the name of the ‘ffoal thing,’ {110a} and
that plot commonly called ‘Backside,’ the closes in Croft abutting on the highway, and lands
near the old sea bank; and land called the ‘bridge plot’ in Wigtoft (6 acres), assigned to
Richard Watson, by the award of the Commissioners appointed by Parliament, in the 12th year
of His Majesty, for enclosing common and open fields (No. 40 in award map), with houses, barns,
curtilages, and woods, to be held by the Governors of the Grammar School, the reversions, rents,
&c., to the use of John Thorold (and the Governors), {110b} on trust, that the said Governors
collect the rents, &c., and apply them as shall be required, from time to time, for poor children;
and shall have power to erect a new school house, or alter, enlarge, &c., and to mortgage,
&c., in order to provide suitable (premises), spinning wheels, &c., and to make rules for management,
as shall to their judgment seem needed, agreeing with the said Benjamin Handley, and his heirs,
&c., subject in all things to the Court of Chancery at Westminster.”

The present status of the school is as follows: The original premises are still in use, standing
in a retired position, in “Watson’s Yard,” about 50 yards from West Street; they consist of
school buildings, play yard, and teacher’s residence.  In 1835 the school was enlarged and
repaired. In 1895 it was further improved by the removal of bedrooms above, when it was opened
up to the roof; at the same time a commodious classroom was added at the east end.  Accommodation
was thus provided for 120 children. The increase in scholars necessitated an increase in the
teaching staff, and the Head Teacher, Mrs. Robert Marshall, who was appointed in 1885, has,
since these alterations, been assisted by an Under Mistress and two Monitors.

The scholars are of both sexes, and between the ages of three years and seven.  The school
is conducted on Church of England principles, and examined by both Diocesan and Government
Inspectors; a Government Grant being earned to supplement the funds of the Watson bequest.
The scholars are taught reading, writing and arithmetic, with the various kindergarten subjects.
The Secretary to the Charity, H. Tweed, Esq., Solicitor, of Horncastle, pays half the rents
to the Lincoln County Council, for teachers’ salaries, and retains the other half for repairs
and incidental expenses.  All the other tenements in Watson’s Yard are the property of the Charity.

THE LANCASTERIAN & THE BELL SCHOOLS.

Beside the endowed schools, already described, the Grammar School for the middle and upper
class, and Watson’s School for the children of the poorer classes; there were two other schools
before the present National Schools came into existence, the history of which is of some interest.
Weir, in his History of Horncastle, says “a school, on the Lancasterian, or British system,
was established at a public meeting, held in October, 1813; and, a few days later, a meeting
was held at the church, when it was resolved to establish a school on the plan of Dr. Bell.
Both buildings were erected in 1814, supported by voluntary contributions, each for about 200
children.” {111}

This needs some explanation.  Dr. Andrew Bell was an East Indian Company’s Chaplain, stationed
at Fort St. George, Madras, in 1789.  He noticed, in the course of his duties, that in the
native schools, beside the regular paid teachers, the more advanced pupils were also employed
to instruct younger scholars; each pupil thus having a tutor, and each tutor a pupil; a system
by which both were enabled to learn faster, and led to take more interest in their work, than
would otherwise have been generally possible.  Being an enthusiast in educational matters,
he resigned his chaplaincy, with its good stipend, to inaugurate, and himself carry on, a school
for the children of Europeans in the Presidency, on the same principles.  The result was so
satisfactory that on his return to England, in 1797, he published an account of what he called
the “Madras, or Monitorial System,” and endeavoured to introduce it in this country.  Little
progress, however, was made for some time, beyond the establishment of a charity school, on
these lines, at St. Botolph’s, Aldgate, London, and a school at Kendal, Co. Cumberland.

About the same date Joseph Lancaster, a young Quaker, set up a school for poor children, before
he was 19 years of age, in a room lent to him by his father, in the Borough Road, Southwark,
and in a very short time he had nearly 100 under his charge.  He also adopted the monitorial
method, but, as a Quaker, omitting the Church teaching of the Bell schools. Persevering in
the work, he was received in audience by the King, George III., who gave him encouragement.
He then travelled over the kingdom, giving lectures on the new mode of instruction; which in
consequence spread with rapidity.  In 1798 he taught about 1,000 boys, between the ages of
5 and 12 years, his sisters teaching some 200 girls.

Objections were made to the indefinite character of the religious teaching of a Quaker, by
Professor Marsh, and others, and the Bell schools, with their Church instruction, had by the
year 1818 become numerous.  The services of Dr. Bell himself, in the cause of education had
been recognised, and rewarded by a Canonry of Westminster.  By the year 1828 upwards of 200,000
children were being taught on his system, and at his death, a few years later, he bequeathed
£120,000 to carry on the work which he had so much at heart. {112a}

These two systems, the Lancasterian or unsectarian schools, and the Bell or church schools,
continued to increase in number; there having been established in 1805 “The Royal Lancasterian
Institution,” otherwise called “The British and Foreign School Society,” while the Bell system
was represented by “The Church of England National School Society.”

The first Lancasterian or British School founded in Horncastle, in 1814, was located in premises
adjoining the Wong, on the site afterwards occupied by the first Volunteer Drill Hall.  It
was afterwards transferred to what is now called Dog-Kennel Yard, occupying a building which
had previously been a theatre, and which was partly fitted up with sittings removed from St.
Mary’s Church, giving accommodation for 200 children.  Neither in its internal structure, however,
nor in its situation in an out-of-the-way back yard, was the former theatre well adapted for
school purposes; and although the late Mr. Samuel Goe had in 1869 bequeathed a legacy to the
school, which rendered it almost independent of annual subscriptions, the establishment of
a much more commodious school by the Wesleyans, in Foundry Street in 1860, affected it unfavourably,
the number of scholars gradually decreased, and it was finally closed in 1876. {112b}

The Bell, or Church School, also built in 1814, and accommodating about 200 scholars of both
sexes, formed the nucleus of the present Church National Schools.  These two schools, the Lancasterian
or British, and the Bell or Church School, are the only public elementary schools, named in
the Gazetteers for many years, except the Watson Charity School, already described.

Of the present Church National Schools, that for infants was erected in 1860, that for boys
in 1872, at a cost of about £1,000, the original building being now the girls’ school; the
whole affording accommodation for 300 children.  These were, a few years ago, taken over by
the Lindsey County Council (in 1893), and are now under both Diocesan and Government Inspection.
{112c}

THE SCIENCE & ART SCHOOL.

With the establishment of Technical Schools this country may be said to have entered on a new
era, in national education, which, in its development, may lead to results, the importance
of which can hardly yet be realized.  The possibilities are almost unlimited.  A wide-spread
network has been created, which may bring even the humblest members of our artisan families
within its deneficial meshes, while also working at intervals, as opportunities offer, in our
remotest villages.

This great movement, curiously, originated from dissension in Parliament, a remarkable illustration
of the old adage, “’Tis an ill wind that blows no one any good.”  In the year 1890 the Chancellor
of the Exchequer, in Lord Salisbury’s ministry, {113a} introduced what was called “The Local
Taxation (customs and excise) Bill,” {113b} intended to empower County Councils to buy up the
licences of superfluous public houses, and to compensate the publicans by grants of money.
The funds for this purpose were not to be a charge upon the local rates, but to be provided
by an increase of the duty on spirituous liquors.  Strange to say, this measure was so persistently
opposed by the temperance party, aided by others, who for the moment acted with them, that
the proposed use of the money, thus raised, was at length abandoned, a considerable surplus,
however, being thus at the Chancellor’s disposal, after the reduction of several other taxes,
the remainder was handed over to the County Councils, to be employed in the furtherance of
technical education.  The money thus set apart was called “the ear-marked money,” and the measure
enacting it was, somewhat unworthily, termed “The Whiskey Bill.”  Horncastle benefitted by
a sum being placed to the credit of the local authorities for the establishment of a school
of science and art; all such institutions in the county being under the general direction of
the organizing secretary, Mr. S. Maudson Grant, residing in Lincoln.

                       [Picture: St. Mary’s Square]

At first classes were held in the Masonic Hall, Bank Street; and in 1891 an efficient teacher,
Mr. Mallet, was engaged to give commercial instruction in arithmetic, shorthand, &c., {114a}
and he was very successful in getting pupils.  In 1892 larger accommodation was required, and
two rooms were rented, over what is now the Bicycle Depot of Mr. Sorfleet, at 14, East Street;
and Mr. Switzer was engaged as teacher of science and art, at a salary of £100 a year, being
allowed further to augment his income by taking private pupils in certain other subjects. About
the same time £100 was spent on models, and other requisites; and by the close of 1892, Tetford,
Wragby, and Woodhall Spa having been included in a general scheme for the district, it was
found that the pupils attending the classes already numbered 219; of whom 76 were under Mr.
Mallet’s instruction, 101 under Mr. Switzer, including 39 school teachers in the neighbourhood,
attending on Saturdays; while 42 received special instruction from a qualified teacher in dressmaking.
Operations were also, in the same year, extended to rural parishes, a meeting being held at
Woodhall Spa, on Feb. 10, presided over by the Rev. T. Livesey, County Councillor, when a district
embracing 20 parishes was formed; Mr. Livesey being ex officio Chairman of Committees, Canon
J. Clare Hudson, Vicar of Thornton, appointed as acting Chairman, and the Rev. J. Conway Walter,
Rector of Langton, Hon. Secretary.

This was followed by other meetings at Horncastle, at which, in due course, plans were matured
for both town and country classes in various subjects.  On the death of Mr. T. Livesey, in
1894, Mr. Robert Searby, of Edlington, succeeded him as County Councillor, and took a great
interest in the school; the late Mr. W. Brown, of the Capital and Counties Bank, was elected
Chairman, and for several years he rendered most valuable service to the schools, being followed,
on his decease in 1901, by Mr. R. W. Clitherow, Solicitor, who had previously acted as Treasurer.
So far the whole scheme had been attended by the most marked success in all departments.

