THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. X. No. 281.] SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

NO. XIV.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first of the above engravings represents one of the Body Guards of the Sheikh of Bornou,
copied from an engraving after a sketch made by Major Denham, in his recent "Travels in Africa."

Their appearance is altogether of a warlike character, the horses being well caparisoned, and
the riders well clothed for personal defence; and though their equestrian evolutions be somewhat
wild, the lance or spear is doubtless a formidable weapon in their hands. The savage splendour
of their dress, together with the pawing and snorting of their fiery steeds, render them appropriate
auxiliaries to royalty, in countries where such attributes of power are requisite to impress
the people with the importance of their rulers, and where the milder aids of civilization and
refinement are wanting to protect the sovereign from violence.

The second engraving, copied from the same authentic source as that preceding it, is a somewhat
grotesque portraiture of one of the Lancers of the Sultan of Begharmi, described, in an historical
and geographical account by a native prince, as an extensive country, containing woods and
rivers, and fields fit for cultivation; but now desolated, as the inhabitants say, by the "misconduct
of the king, who, having increased in levity and licentiousness to such a frightful degree,
as even to marry his own daughter, God Almighty caused Saboon, the prince of Wa-da-i, to march
against him, and destroy him, laying waste, at the same time, all his country, and leaving
the houses uninhabited, as a signal chastisement for his impiety."

Major Denham having applied for the covering of the above warrior and his horse, in his journal
thus describes their arrival:--"Aug. 11. Soon after daylight, Karouash, with Hadgi, Mustapha,
the chief of the Shouaas, and the Sheikh's two nephews, Hassein and Kanemy, came to our huts.
They were attended by more than a dozen slaves, bearing presents for us, for King George, and
the consul at Tripoli. I had applied for a lebida, (horse-covering,) after seeing those taken
from the Begharmis; the sheikh now sent a man, clothed in a yellow wadded jacket, with a scarlet
cap, and mounted on the horse taken from the Begharmis, on which the sultan's eldest son rode.
He was one of the finest horses I had seen, and covered with a scarlet cloth, also wadded.
'Every thing,' Hadgi Mustapha said, 'except the man, is to be taken to your great king.'"

The Begharmis, it will be seen, were conquered by the people of Kanem; and Major Denham has
translated, and given in the appendix to his Travels, a song of thanksgiving on the triumphant
return of the governor, full of the characteristic beauty and simplicity of savage life. In
these struggles it would appear the law of nations is severe on the weakest; for the son of
the late sultan of the Begharmis is described as "now a slave of the sheikh of Bornou." So
wags the world!

LIVING AT TOULOUSE.

Part of a house, sufficient for a small family, unfurnished, may be had for 14 l. a year; and
the most elegant in the city, in the best situation, for 60 l., including coach-house, stable,
cellar, &c. A horse may be kept well for 14 l. a year. The wages of a coachman are 8 l., a
housemaid 8 l., a noted cook 16 l., and a lady's-maid 10 l. The price of a chicken is 7-1/2
d.; a partridge 1 s.; a hare 2 s. 6 d.; a duck 1 s.; a turkey 2 s. 6 d.; the best bread 1-1/2
d. per lb.; common ditto 1 d.; a bottle of wine 3 d.; brandy is sold by the lb. of 16 oz. and
costs 6 d.; grapes 1/2 d. per lb.; meat 3 d.; butter 4 d.; cheese 6d; 50 lbs. carrots 10 d.;
other vegetables at the same rate. A dozen very fine peaches now cost a halfpenny; pears 3
d. a dozen; labourers, who work from sunrise to sunset, are fed by the proprietor, and have
6 d. per day, which, in this part of the country, will go further than three times the sum
in England. The horses and oxen used about the farms are fed chiefly on straw, and do not consume
more than 3 d. a day. The labouring people make a very nourishing diet from maize flour, which
is fried with grease; and this, with beans, forms the principal part of their food. They neither
use nor wish for meat; but at this season they have figs and grapes almost for nothing--Original
Letter.

MOHAMMEDAN SUPERSTITION.

The eastern, and all Mohammedan people, considering Alexander the Great as the only monarch
who conquered the globe from east to west, give him the title of "the two horned," in allusion
to his said conquests. They likewise believe that Gog and Magog were two great nations, but
that, in consequence of their wicked and mischievous disposition, Alexander gathered and immured
them within two immensely high mountains, in the darkest and northernmost parts of Europe,
by a most surprising and insuperable wall, made of iron and copper, of great thickness and
height; and that to the present time they are confined there; that, notwithstanding they are
a dwarfish race,--viz. from two to three feet in height only--they will one day come out and
desolate the world. As Lord Mayor's Day is just approaching, perhaps some of the visiters of
Gog and Magog on that occasion may decide this matter. It is almost akin to our nursery quibble
of the giants hearing the clock strike, &c. &c.

PERSIAN BARBER.

The Khas-terash (literally, personal shaver) of the present sovereign has, in the abundance
of his wealth, built a palace for himself close to the royal bath at Teheran. And he is entitled
to riches, for he is a man of pre-eminent excellence in his art, and has had for a long period,
under his especial care, the magnificent beard of his majesty, which is at this moment, and
has been for years, the pride of Persia.--Persian Sketches.

LIVING IN GENEVA.

The vicinity of Geneva appears peculiarly eligible for the permanent residence of an English
family. There is perhaps no town on the continent where greater facilities are afforded for
a man of literary and scientific pursuits to indulge his taste or to increase his knowledge.
The city is close built, and consequently not an agreeable place to live in; but its immediate
environs abound with delightful spots.

The costume of the Genevese assimilates much with that of the French; but the better class
of females are partial to the English fashions. The language of the country is French, but
its habits and religion are widely different. Not only does the Protestant faith find here
the salutary prevalence of a kindred faith, but the members of our own ecclesiastical establishment
are enabled to join each other every Sabbath day in the worship of God, and at stated seasons
to receive the holy sacrament according to the pure and apostolic ritual of the church of England.

The expense of a house, with a garden and piece of land, within a mile of the gates, including
also the keeping of a caleche and pair of horses, for a gentleman, his lady, two children,
and three servants, does not exceed 300 l. a year; and with this he is enabled to receive his
friends occasionally, and in a respectable style. To proceed from a family establishment to
a bachelor's pension, "I," says Mr. Seth Stevenson, in his Continental Travels, "was told that
a person at Petit Saconnex has a sleeping-room to himself, and his breakfast, dinner, tea,
and supper with the family, for 500 francs (20 l. 16 s. 8 d.) per annum."

The taxation of Geneva is described as very trifling. There is a sort of income-tax, to which
every man of property contributes, on his honour, as to the amount of that property. The whole
tax for horses and carriages amounts to about 18 d. for each person; the richest it seems pays
no more, and the others pay no less. "My friend assures me," continues Mr. S. "that his fellow
citizens approve of their annexation to Switzerland, and also of the union of the Valais with
the Helvetic confederation--that the people of this little republic are flourishing again,
contented with their government; and as the best proof of their returning prosperity since
the peace, he adverted to the comparatively few indigent or distressed persons among them,
and to the fact of there being only forty-five persons in the poor's hospital, besides those
admitted under the head of casualties."

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL STORY OF HAMLET,

(From the Latin of Saxo Grammaticus, but interspersed.)

Florwendillus, king of Jutland, married Geruthra, or Gertrude, the only daughter of Ruric,
king of Denmark. The produce of this union was a son, called Amlettus. When he grew towards
manhood, his spirit and extraordinary abilities excited the envy and hatred of his uncle, who,
before the birth of Amlettus, was regarded as presumptive heir to the crown. Fengo, which was
the name of this haughty prince, conceived a passion for his sister-in-law, the queen; and
meeting with reciprocal feelings, they soon arranged a plan, which putting into execution,
he ascended the throne of his brother and espoused the widowed princess. Amlettus, (or Hamlet,)
suspecting that his father had died by the hand or the devices of his uncle, determined to
be revenged. But perceiving the jealousy with which the usurper eyed his superior talents,
and the better to conceal his hatred and intentions, he affected a gradual derangement of reason,
and at last acted all the extravagance of an absolute madman. Fengo's guilt induced him to
doubt the reality of a malady so favourable to his security; and suspicious of some direful
project being hidden beneath assumed insanity, he tried by different stratagems to penetrate
the truth. One of these was to draw him into a confidential interview with a young damsel,
who had been the companion of his infancy; but Hamlet's sagacity, and the timely caution of
his intimate friend, frustrated this design. In these two persons we may recognise the Ophelia
and Horatio of Shakspeare. A second plot was attended with equal want of success. It was concerted
by Fengo that the queen should take her son to task in a private conversation, vainly flattering
himself that the prince would not conceal his true state from the pleadings of a mother. Shakspeare
has adopted every part of this scene, not only the precise situation and circumstances, but
the sentiments and sometimes the very words themselves. The queen's apartment was the appointed
place of conference, where the king, to secure certain testimony, had previously ordered one
of his courtiers to conceal himself under a heap of straw; so says the historian; and though
Shakspeare, in unison with the refinement of more modern times, changes that rustic covering
for the royal tapestry, yet it was even as Saxo Grammaticus relates it. In those primitive
ages, straw, hay, of rushes, strewed on the floor, were the usual carpets in the chambers of
the great. One of our Henrys, in making a progress to the north of England, previously sent
forward a courier to order clean straw at every house where he was to take his lodging. But
to return to the subject.

The prince, suspecting there might be a concealed listener, and that it was the king, pursued
his wild and frantic acts, hoping that by some lucky chance he might discover his hiding-place.
Watchful of all that passed in the room, as he dashed from side to side, he descried a little
movement of the uneasy courtier's covering. Suddenly Hamlet sprung on his feet, began to crow
like a cock, and flapping his arms against his sides, leaped upon the straw; feeling something
under him, he snatched out his sword and thrust it through the unfortunate lord. The barbarism
of the times is most shockingly displayed in the brutal manner in which he treats the dead
body; but for the honour of the Danish prince, we must suppose that it was not merely a wanton
act, but done the more decidedly to convince the king, when the strange situation of the corpse
was seen, how absolutely he must be divested of reason. Being assured he was now alone with
his mother, in a most awful manner he turns upon her, and avows his madness to be assumed;
he reproaches her with her wicked deeds and incestuous marriage; and threatens a mighty vengeance
upon the instigator of her crime.

In the historian we find that the admonitions of Hamlet awakened the conscience of the queen,
and recalled her to penitence and virtue. The king, observing the change, became doubly suspicious
of the prince; and baffling some preliminary steps he took to vengeance; Hamlet was entrapped
by him into an embassy to England. He sent along with him two courtiers, who bore private letters
to the English monarch, requesting him, as the greatest favour he could confer on Denmark,
to compass, by secret and by sure means, the death of the prince as soon as he landed. Hamlet,
during the voyage, had reason to suspect the mission of his companions; and by a stratagem
obtaining their credentials, he found the treacherous mandate; and changing it for one wherein
he ordered the execution of the two lords, he quietly proceeded with them to the British shore.
On landing, the papers were delivered, and the king, without further parley, obeyed what he
believed to be the request of his royal ally; and thus did treason meet the punishment due
to its crime. The daughter of the king being charmed with the person and manners of the foreign
prince, evinced such marks of tenderness, that Hamlet could not but perceive the depth of his
conquest. He was not insensible to her attractions; and receiving the king's assent, in the
course of a few days led her to the nuptial altar. Amidst all joys, he was, however, like a
perturbed ghost that could not rest; and before many suns had rose and set, he obtained a hard
wrung leave from his bride, once more set sail, and appeared at Elsineur just in time to be
a witness of the splendid rites which Fengo (supposing him now to be murdered) had prepared
for his funeral. On the proclamation of his arrival, he was welcomed with enthusiasm by the
people, whose idol he was, and who had been overwhelmed with grief when Fengo announced to
them his sudden death in England. The king, inflamed with so ruinous a disappointment, and
becoming doubly jealous of his growing popularity, now affected no conciliation, but openly
manifested his hatred and hostility. Hamlet again had recourse to his pretended madness, and
committed so many alarming acts, that Fengo, fearing their direction, ordered his sword to
be locked in its scabbard, under a plea of guarding the lunatic from personal harm, After various
adventures, at last the prince accomplished the death of his uncle's adherents, and vengeance
on the fratricide himself, by setting fire to the palace during the debauch of a midnight banquet.
Rushing amidst the flames, he kills Fengo with his own hand, reproaching him at the moment
with his murder, adultery, and incest. Immediately on this act of retribution he was proclaimed
lawful successor to the throne, and crowned with all due solemnity.

Thus far Shakspeare treads in the steps of the annalist; the only difference is in the fate
of the hero; in the one he finds a kingdom, in the other a grave. Saxo Grammaticus carries
the history further; and after the crowning of Hamlet as king, brings him again into Britain,
where, in compliment to that land of beauty, he marries a second wife, the daughter of a Scottish
king. Hamlet brought both his wives to Denmark, and prepared for a long life of prosperity
and peace. But the sword hung over his head; war burst around him, and he fell in combat by
the hand of Vigelotes, son of Ruric. Saxo Grammaticus sums up his character in a few words:
"He was a wise prince and a great warrior. Like Achilles, he had the principal actions of his
life wrought on his shield. The daughter of the king of Scotland casting her eye on it, loved
him for the battles he had won, and became his bride."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH FRUITS.

(Concluded from page 295.)

The Vine.--The value and transcendant excellence of this foreign fruit is too well known to
require any extended account in this paper; as a native of the southern verge of the northern
temperate zone, it only requires its natural degree of heat to bring it to perfection. The
growth is luxuriant, is fertile, easy of management, and as it requires support, obedient to
the trainer's will. Many excellent varieties ate in our stoves and vineries; differing in hardness,
size of bunches, and in colour and flavour of fruit. These, it is likely, have been gained
from seeds; and as its cultivation has been primæval with the inhabitants of the earth, no
wonder it received, for its unequalled utility, their chiefest care.

That the climate of this country has undergone a considerable change within the last hundred
years, is allowed by all who have considered the subject; and nothing furnishes a more convincing
proof of this, than the history of the vine. Previous to the reign of Henry VIII., every abbey
and monastery had its vineyard. In the rent-rolls of church property in those days, and long
afterwards, considerable quantities of grapes were paid as tithe; and the vestiges of some
of those vineyards remain to this day. They were usually placed on the south side of a hill,
in a light dry soil, having the surface covered with sand; the vines being trained near the
ground. But with such inclement and changeable springs, and long protracted winters, as have
been experienced of late, even such frost as is seen at this moment (24th of April,) vines
as standards in the open air, would be destroyed; or, at least, no dependence could be placed
upon them for a crop. But vineyards in the country could neither be so profitable, nor are
they so necessary as they were in those days; international intercourse is now more open, and
corporations, whether religious or civil, can be supplied with grapes in any shape, and their
precious juice in any quantity, at a cheaper rate than either home-grown or home-made. In their
cultivation in this country, practitioners are more liable to err in planting them in too rich,
than in too poor a soil; the first adds too much to their natural luxuriance of growth, and
always reduces the flavour of the fruit.

The Mulberry.--This fruit has not been subjected to the operations and attention of the improver
so much, perhaps, as it deserves; true, it has been planted against walls, and as espaliers;
and in both places has done well.

The Fig has been long in our gardens; a very ancient one is still alive in the garden of one
of the colleges at Oxford. In its native country it produces two crops in the year, and this
property makes its management rather difficult in a country where it can but with difficulty
be made to produce one; and especially when trained in the common way to a wall, where the
crop is often sacrificed to the useless symmetry of the tree. It is impatient of frost, and
requires protection during winter; and is also impatient of the knife, and more, perhaps, than
any other tree, is disposed to form its own natural head. When kept in a glass case, either
planted in the ground or in pots, it well repays the trouble bestowed upon it.

The Quince.--This fruit remains very steadily in character to what it has always been known
to be; the taste is too austere to be used alone from the tree; but with other fruits in pastry,
or in the shape of preserves or marmalade, it is useful.

The Medley.--Two or three sorts of this tree are in cultivation: they are placed in the lowest
grade of fruits; though, when they are perfectly mature, they are much relished by some palates.
The azarola, service, and two or three others used in the south of Europe, are not worth notice
here.

The Filbert.--The common wild hazle of our hedges has been improved, by chance or cultivation,
into the several varieties of red and white filberts and cob-nuts. Working them upon the hazle,
or upon themselves, is necessary; because, it not only makes them more fruitful, but also brings
them sooner into bearing.

The Walnut.--This nuciferous tree has been cultivated in England more for the value of the
timber than for its fruit. There are several varieties, differing chiefly in the size of the
nut, from the diminutive ben-nut, to the large or double French sort. The only improvement
which can be expected in this, is a hardier sort which would be less susceptible of damage
from frost.

The Chestnut.--The description of the walnut may be applied to this, as they are natives of
the same climate; and their flowers are alike impatient of frost. The fruit of this is, however,
inferior to that of the walnut, and seldom arrives at the same degree of perfection. The tree
grows to a great size, and is one of the most valuable of our forest trees. In "days of yore,"
it must have been much more plentiful in this country, or more plentifully imported, than it
now is; as the principal timbers of abbeys, cathedrals, and other ancient buildings, are chiefly
formed of it: being equally durable as the oak, which it so much resembles, that they can hardly
be distinguished from each other, but by the test of the wet edge of a chissel being stained
by the oak, and not at all by the chestnut.

The Melon and Cucumber.--These exotic fruits are extensively cultivated; the latter takes various
shapes in our bills of fare; the former is more a luxury than a fruit for general use; their
culture on hot-beds forms a material branch of modern gardening, and with that of the gourd,
pumpkin, squash, vegetable marrow, &c., is well known.

The Pine-Apple.--This sovereign of fruits is, and can only be, in this country, an appendage
to opulence and rank. Several varieties are cultivated in our forcing-stoves, and grace the
tables of the rich, and in as great perfection as they can be had between the tropics. In their
wild state, they affect the sides of rivulets, and often under the shade of lofty trees; but
are of inferior flavour, unless the weather is very dry when they are ripening off; and when
cultivated, they receive little or no water during the last stage of their growth.--Quarterly
Journal of Science, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTES OF THE MARVELLOUS.

A Prediction Fulfilled.

At the time of the American war, a gentleman (a mere youth) entered the army, and saw some
little service. One day, during an engagement, he was, in the hurry and confusion of it, knocked
down; and a soldier, setting his foot upon his chest in passing over him, hurt him so exceedingly
that he became senseless; upon recovering, he found himself still stretched on the ground,
and a singular, looking female stood beside him, who, as he opened his eyes, exclaimed in an
ill-boding voice, "Ay, young man, mark my words: that hurt will be the death of you in your
forty-second year." He immediately recognised in this old raven one of those soothsayers who
usually followed the army, and gained a livelihood by their oracular powers. Mr. L. certainly
did mark her words, inasmuch as returning to England, he quitted the army, entered the church,
and amongst other red-coat reminiscences, used frequently to mention (and mention but to ridicule)
the American soothsayer's prediction. Nevertheless, true it is, that he did die in his forty-second
year, and of a disease in his chest too, although he had never suffered from the hurt beyond
the period at which he received it.

Imagination.

The measles (it is pretty well known to all voyagers) is at St. Helena a hideous and fatal
disorder, although generally mild at the Cape, which is about a fortnight's sail from the former
island: every ship, therefore, from the Cape, upon touching at St. Helena, undergoes examination,
and, if the measles are known to be prevalent at the former place, is put into quarantine,
and no officer, however urgent his business may be, allowed to land without making oath or
affidavit that he has not been on shore at the Cape, or approached an infected person. Some
years since, a naval officer, acquainted with the then governor of St. Helena, General P----n,
was invited to dine with him, and met at dinner another officer from another vessel, who, it
is to be presumed, had eluded undergoing the usual precautionary measures, and was perhaps
ignorant of their existence, since he mentioned, during the repast, that the measles were prevailing
at Cape Town, and admitted that he had entered it. Now, he had just arrived at St. Helena,
and though he expressly stated that he had not gone near any infected person, poor Mrs. P----,
uttering a shriek, fled from the table, exclaiming that she knew she should have the measles;
in fact, she immediately fell sick of that disorder, (and died, I think I understood.) All
her family took it, and it raged through the island, proving dreadfully destructive.

Mysterious Incident.

It was the wedding day of Mr. and Mrs. Terry, (I mean the actual, not the anniversary wedding-day,)
and the jocund bridegroom, bride, and their guests were assembled about noon in the drawing-room,
when a servant entered, and said a gentleman had called, and wished to speak to Mr. T.; that
he was waiting below stairs, and would not come up, because he came upon very particular business.
Mr. Terry, desiring his company to excuse him for a few minutes, quitted the room. One hour
elapsed--no bridegroom; two hours--he did not appear;--three--four--he was not returned: the
bride's mind misgave her, and the hymeneal guests were quite alarmed: the servants declared
that they had seen their master and the gentleman walk into the garden, from whence they were
not returned. Now, a high brick wall, in which there was no outlet, and over which no person
could climb except by a ladder, enclosed the garden, which, when searched, was empty, whilst,
at the same time, Mr. Terry and his friend, "the gentleman," could not have walked out at the
hall-door without being, from its situation, seen and heard by the servants in the kitchen.
Time fled--and he did not return--no!--and although his lady lived to be nearly ninety years
of age, she never gained tidings again of the spouse, thus so mysteriously spirited away!

Raising the Wind.

