I blush to confess, that I have often thought the habit of debt to be our national inheritance--from
that bugbear of out-of-place men, the Sinking Fund, to the parish-clerk, who mortgages his
fees at the chandler's; and that my countrymen seem to have resolved to increase their own
enjoyments at the expense of posterity, with whose provision, even Swift thinks we have no
concern. Again; I have thought that we are apt to over-rate our national advancement, by supposing
the present race to be wiser than the previous one, without once looking into our individual
contributions to this state of enlightenment. Proud as we are of this distinction in the social
scale, we can record few instances of contemporary genius, and we are bound to confess that
men are not a whit the better in the present than in the previous generation. Thus we hoodwink
each other till social outrages become every-day occurrences, and every thing but sheer violence
is protected by its frequency; and in this manner we consent to compromise our happiness, and
then affect to be astonished at its scarcity. In the later ages of the world, men have learned
to temporize with principles, and to sacrifice, at the shrine of passing interest, as much
real virtue as would bear them harmless throughout life. Hence, of what more avail is the virtue
of the Roman fathers, or are the amiable friendships of Scipio and Lelius, than as so many
amusing fictions to exercise the imaginations of schoolmen in drawing outlines of character,
which experience does not finish. Friends, like certain flowers, bloom around us in the sunshine
of success; but at night-fall or at the approach of storms, they shut up their hearts; and
thus, poor victims being rifled of their mind's content, with their little string of enjoyments
broken up for ever, are abandoned to the pity or scorn of bystanders. It is impossible to reflect
for a moment on such a crisis, without dropping a tear for the self-created infirmities of
man: but there are considerations at which he shudders, and which he would rather varnish over
with the sophistry of his refinement, and the fallacies of self-conceit.

I fear that I am breaking my rule in not confining myself to a few shades of debt and conscience,
with a view of determining how far they are usually reconciled among us. The task may not prove
altogether fruitless; notwithstanding, to find honest men, would require the lantern of Diogenes,
and perhaps turn out like Gratiano's wheat.

In our youthful days, we all remember to have read a pithy string of Maxims by Dr. Franklin;
and we are accustomed to admire the pertinence of their wit,--but here their influence too
often terminates. Since Franklin's time, the practice of getting into debt has become more
and more easy, notwithstanding men have become more wary. Goldsmith, too, gives us a true picture
of this habit in his scene with Mr. Padusoy, the mercer, a mode which has been found to succeed
so well since his time, that, with the exception of a few short-cuts by sharpers and other
proscribed gentry, little amendment has been made. Profuseness on the part of the debtor will
generally be found to beget confidence on that of the creditor; and, in like manner, diffidence
will create mistrust, and mistrust an entire overthrow of the scheme. An unblushing front,
and the gift of non chalance, are therefore the best qualifications for a debtor to obtain
credit, while poor modesty will be starved in her own littleness. In vain has Juvenal protested--"Fronti
nulla fides;" and have the world been amused with anecdotes of paupers dying with money sewed
up in their clothes: appearance and assumed habits are still the handmaids to confidence; and
so long as this system exists, the warfare of debtor and creditor will be continued. Procrastination
will be found to be another furtherance of the system, inasmuch as it is too evident throughout
life that men are more apt to take pleasure "by the forelock," than to calculate its consequence.
In this manner, men of irregular habits anticipate and forestal every hour of their lives,
and pleasure and pain alternate, till pain, like debt, accumulates, and sinks its patient below
the level of the world. Economy and forecast do not enter into the composition of such men,
nor are such lessons often felt or acknowledged, till custom has rendered the heart unfit for
the reception of their counsels. It is too frequently that the neglect of these principles
strikes at the root of social happiness, and produces those lamentable wrecks of men--those
shadows of sovereignty, which people our prisons, poor-houses, and asylums. Genius, with all
her book-knowledge, is not exempt from this failing; but, on the contrary, a sort of fatality
seems to attend her sons and daughters, which tarnishes their fame, and often exposes them
to the brutish attacks of the ignorant and vulgar. Wits, and even philosophers, are among this
number; and we are bound to acknowledge, that, beyond the raciness of their writings, there
is but little to admire or imitate in the lives of such men as Steele, Foote, or Sheridan.
It is, however, fit that principle should be thus recognised and upheld, and that any dereliction
from its rules should be placed against the account of such as enjoy other degrees of superiority,
and allowed to form an item in the scale of their merits.

(To be concluded in our next.)

    [1] From "Cameleon Sketches," by the author of "The Promenade round
        Dorking." In the press.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ENGLISHMAN'S PRAYER

  Grant, righteous Heaven, however cast my fate
  On social duties or in toils of state,
  Whether at home dispensing equal laws,
  Or foremost struggling for the world's applause,
  As neighbour, husband, brother, sire, or son,
  In every work, accomplished or begun,
  Grant that, by me, thy holy will be done.
  When false ambition tempts my soul to rise,
  Teach me her proffer'd honours to despise,
  Though chains or poverty await the just,
  Though villains lure me to betray my trust,
  Unmoved by wealth, unawed by tyrant, might
  Still let me steadily pursue the right,
  Hold fast my plighted faith, nor stoop to give
  For lengthen'd life, the only cause to live.

       *       *       *       *       *

ITALY.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

SIR,--Is your correspondent (see the MIRROR of the 15th of September) quite right in asserting
that Italy has invariably retained the same name from its first settlement? or would the fact
be singular if true? Virgil, in his first book of the Æneid, implies that it had at least two
names before that of Italy. "Ænotrii coluere viri;" "Hesperiam graii cognomine dicunt;" "Itali
ducis de nomine." His works are not at hand, so that I cannot specify the line; but the passage
is repeated three or four times in the course of the poem, and the reference, therefore, to
it is peculiarly easy.

In other places, as you may remember, he gives it the appellation of "Ausonia."

Now as to the singularity of the circumstance, supposing it were otherwise, to what does it
amount but this: that when Italian power extended over the countries of Europe, Italian names
were given them; that as this power declined, these names as naturally fell into disuse; and
the different nations, actuated severally by a spirit of independence or of caprice, recurred
to their own or foreign tongues for the designation of their territory. While at Rome itself,
which, though often suffering from the calamities of war, still retained a considerable share
of influence, the inhabitants adhered to their native dialect, and the same city which had
been the birth-place and cradle of the infant language was permitted to become its sanctuary
at last.

Y.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELISE.

(By L.E.L.)

  O Let me love her! she has past
    Into my inmost heart--
  A dweller on the hallowed ground
    Of its least worldly part;
  Where feelings and where memories dwell
    Like hidden music in the shell.

  She was so like the forms that float
    On twilight's hour to me,
  Making of cloud-born shapes and thoughts
    A dear reality;
  As much a thing of light and air
    As ever poet's visions were.

  I left smoke, vanities, and cares,
    Just far enough behind,
  To dream of fairies 'neath the moon,
    Of voices on the wind,
  And every fantasy of mine
    Was truth in that sweet face of thine.

  Her cheek was very, very pale,
    Yet it was still more fair;
  Lost were one half its loveliness,
    Had the red rose been there:
  But now that sad and touching grace
  Made her's seem like an angel's face.

  The spring, with all its breath and bloom,
    Hath not so dear a flower,
  As the white lily's languid head
    Drooping beneath the shower;
  And health hath ever waken'd less
  Of deep and anxious tenderness.

  And O thy destiny was love,
    Written in those soft eyes;
  A creature to be met with smiles.
    And to be watch'd with sighs;
  A sweet and fragile blossom, made
  To be within the bosom laid.

  And there are some beneath whose touch
    The coldest hearts expand,
  As erst the rocks gave forth their tears
    Beneath the prophet's hand;
  And colder than that rock must be
  The heart that melted not for thee.

  Thy voice--thy poet lover's song
    Has not a softer tone;
  Thy dark eyes--only stars at night
    Such holy light have known;
  And thy smile is thy heart's sweet sign,
  So gentle and so feminine.

  I feel, in gazing on thy face,
    As I had known thee long;
  Thy looks are like notes that recall
    Some old remembered song
  By all that touches and endears,
  Lady, I must have loved thee years.

Literary Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLONEL GEORGE HANGER.

Dining on one occasion at Carlton-house, it is said that, after the bottle had for some time
circulated, his good-humoured volubility suddenly ceased, and he seemed for a time to be wholly
lost in thought. While he "chewed the cud" in this ruminating state, his illustrious host remarked
his very unusual quiescency, and interrupted it by inquiring the subject of his meditation.
"I have been reflecting, Sir," replied the colonel, "on the lofty independence of my present
situation. I have compromised with my creditors, paid my washerwoman, and have three shillings
and sixpence left for the pleasures and necessities of life," exhibiting at the same time current
coin of the realm, in silver and copper, to that amount, upon the splendid board at which he sat.

Having occasion to express his gratitude to his friend and patron for his nomination to a situation
under government (which, had he been prudent, might have sufficed for genteel support), it
is said that the royal personage condescended to observe, on the colonel's expatiating on the
advantages of his office, that "now he was rich, he would so far impose upon his hospitality
as to dine with him;" at the same time insisting on the repast being any thing but extravagant.
"I shall give your royal highness a leg of mutton, and nothing more, by G----," warmly replied
the gratified colonel, in his plain and homely phrase. The day was nominated, and the colonel
had sufficient time to recur to his budget and bring his ways and means into action. Where
is the sanguineless being whose hopes have never led him wrong? if such there be, the colonel
was not one of those. Long destitute of credit and resources, he looked upon his appointment
as the incontestable source of instant wealth, and he hesitated not to determine upon the forestalment
of its profits to entertain the "first gentleman in England." But, alas! agents and brokers
have flinty hearts. There were doubts (not of his word, for with creditors that he had never
kept), but of the accidents of life, either naturally, or by one of those casualties he had
depicted in the front of his book. In short, the day approached--nay, actually arrived, and
his pockets could boast little more than the once vaunted half-crown and a shilling. Here was
a state sufficient to drive one of less strength of mind to despair. As a friend, a subject,
a man of honour, and one who prided himself upon a tenacious adherence to his word (when the
aforesaid creditors were not concerned), he felt keenly all the horrors of his situation.

The day arrived, and etiquette demanded that the proper officer should examine and report upon
the nature of the expected entertainment, a duty that had been deferred until a late hour of
the day. Well was it that the confiding prince had not wholly dispensed with that form; for
verily the said officer found the colonel, with a dirty scullion for his aide du camp, in active
and zealous preparation for his royal visiter; his shirt sleeves tucked up, while he ardently
basted the identical and solitary "leg of mutton" as it revolved upon the spit: potatoes were
to be seen delicately insinuated into the pan beneath to catch the rich exudation of the joint;
while several tankards of foaming ale, and what the French term "bread à discretion," announced
that, in quantity, if not in quality, he had not been careless in providing for the entertainment
of his illustrious guest. Although the colonel's culinary skill leaves no doubt that the leg
of mutton would have sustained (according to Mr. Hunt's elegant phraseology) critical discussion
on its intrinsic merits, or on its concoction; and although the dinner might have been endured
by royalty (of whose homely appetite the ample gridiron at Alderman Combe's brewery then gave
ample proof), yet his royal highness's poodles would assuredly have perspired through every
pore at the very mention of what a certain nobleman used to term a "jig-hot;" so the feast
was dispensed with, and due acknowledgment made for the evident proofs of hospitality which
had been displayed.

After various vicissitudes of life and fortune, in Hanger's advanced age, a coronet became
his, and it came opportunely; for he had at length learned experience, and knowing the value
of the competence he had obtained, he resolved to enjoy it. He had had enough of fashion; and
had proved all its allurements. So he took a small house in a part of earth's remoter regions,
no great way from Somers' Town, near which stood a public-house he was fond of visiting, and
there, as the price of his sanction, and in acknowledgment of his rank, a large chair by the
fire-side was exclusively appropriated to the peer.--New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTES OF UGO FOSCOLO, THE ITALIAN POET.

Foscolo was in person about the middle height, and somewhat thin, remarkably clean and neat
in his dress,--although on ordinary occasions, he wore a short jacket, trousers of coarse cloth,
a straw hat, and thick heavy shoes; the least speck of dirt on his own person, or on that of
any of his attendants, seemed to give him real agony. His countenance was of a very expressive
character, his eyes very penetrating, although they occasionally betrayed a restlessness and
suspicion, which his words denied; his mouth was large and ugly, his nose drooping, in the
way that physiognomists dislike, but his forehead was splendid in the extreme; large, smooth,
and exemplifying all the power of thought and reasoning, for which his mind was so remarkable.
It was, indeed, precisely the same as that we see given in the prints of Michael Angelo; he
has often heard the comparison made, and by a nod assented to it. In his living, Foscolo was
remarkably abstemious. He seldom drank more than two glasses of wine, but he was fond of having
all he eat and drank of the very best kind, and laid out with great attention to order. He
always took coffee immediately after dinner. His house,--I speak of the one he built for himself,
near the Regent's Park,--was adorned with furniture of the most costly description; at one
time he had five magnificent carpets, one under another, on his drawing-room, and no two chairs
in his house were alike. His tables were all of rare and curious woods. Some of the best busts
and statues (in plaster) were scattered through every apartment,--and on those he doated with
a fervour scarcely short of adoration. I remember his once sending for me in great haste, and
when I entered his library, I found him kneeling, and exclaiming, "beautiful, beautiful." He
was gazing on the Venus de Medici, which he had discovered looked most enchanting, when the
light of his lamp was made to shine upon it from a particular direction. On this occasion,
he had summoned his whole household into his library, to witness the discovery which gave him
so much rapture. In this state, continually exclaiming, "beautiful, beautiful," and gazing
on the figure, he remained for nearly two hours.

He had the greatest dislike to be asked a question, which he did not consider important, and
used to say, "I have three miseries--smoke, flies, and to be asked a foolish question."

His memory was one of the most remarkable. He has often requested me to copy for him (from
some library) a passage, which I should find in such a page of such a book; and appeared as
if he never forgot any thing with which he was once acquainted.

His conversation was peculiarly eloquent and impressive, such as to render it evident that
he had not been over-rated as an orator, when in the days of his glory, he was the admiration
of his country. I remember his once discoursing to me of language, and saying, "in every language,
there are three things to be noticed,--verbs, substantives, and the particles; the verbs,"
holding out his hand, "are as the bones of these fingers; the substantives, the flesh and blood;
but the particles are the sinews, without which the fingers could not move."

"There are," said he to me, once, "three kinds of writing--diplomatic, in which you do not
come to a point, but write artfully, and not to show what you mean; attorney, in which you
are brief; and enlarged, in which you spread and stretch your thoughts."

I have said that his cottage, (built by himself,) near the Regent's Park, was very beautiful.
I remember his showing me a letter to a friend, in which were the following passages:--After
alluding to some pecuniary difficulties, he says, "I can easily undergo all privations, but
my dwelling is always my workshop, and often my prison, and ought not to distress me with the
appearance of misery, and I confess, in this respect, I cannot be acquitted of extravagance."

Speaking afterwards of the costliness of his furniture, he observes, "they encompass me with
an air of respectability, and they give me the illusion of not having fallen into the lowest
circumstances. I must also declare that I will die like a gentleman, on a clean bed, surrounded
by the Venus's, Apollo's, and the Graces, and the busts of great men; nay, even among flowers,
and, if possible, while music is breathing around me. So far, I am, indeed an epicure, but
in all other things, I am the most moderate of men. I might vie with Pythagoras for sobriety,
and even with the great Scipio for continence."--Poor Foscolo! these dreams were far, very
far from being realized. Within a short time after, his cottage, and all its beautiful contents,
came to the hammer, and were distributed. A wealthy gold-smith now inhabits the dwelling of
the poet of Italy. It is but justice to his friends to add, that there were circumstances which
justified them in falling away from him.

During a great portion of the time I was acquainted with Ugo Foscolo, he was under severe pecuniary
distress, chiefly indeed brought on by his own thoughtless extravagance, in building and decorating
his house. I have frequently in those moments seen him beat his forehead, tear his hair, and
gnash his teeth in a manner horrifying; and often left him at night without the least hope
of seeing him alive in the morning. He had a little Italian dagger which he always kept in
his bed-room, and this he frequently told me would "drink his heart's blood in the night."
"I will die," said he, one day, "I am a stranger, and have no friends." "Surely, sir," I replied,
"a stranger may have friends." "Friends," he answered; "I have learnt that there is nothing
in the word; I assure you, I called on W----e, to know if there was anything bad about me in
the newspapers; everybody seems to be leagued against me--friends and enemies. I assure you,
I do not think I will live after next Saturday, unless there is some change." At another time
he said, "I am surrounded with difficulties, and must yield either life or honour; and can
you ask me which I will give up?" I have now before me a letter of Foscolo's, which, after
enumerating a long series of evils, concludes thus:--"Thus, if I have not underwent the doom
of Tasso, I owe it only to the strength of my nerves that have preserved me."

The following sonnet was written by Ugo Foscolo, in English, and accompanied the Essays on
Petrarch, in the edition of that work which was printed for private circulation. It was omitted
when the volume was subsequently published, and is consequently known to very few:

TO CALLIRHOE, AT LAUSANNE.

  I twine far distant from my Tuscan grove,
  The lily chaste, the rose that breathes of love,
  The myrtle leaf, and Laura's hallow'd bay,
  The deathless flowers that bloom o'er Sappho's clay;
  For thee, Callirhoe! yet by love and years,
  I learn how fancy wakes from joy to tears;
  How memory, pensive, 'reft of hope, attends
  The exile's path, and bids him fear new friends.
  Long may the garland blend its varying hue
  With thy bright tresses, and bud ever new
  With all spring's odours; with spring's light be drest,
  Inhale pure fragrance from thy virgin breast!
  And when thou find'st that youth and beauty fly,
  As heavenly meteors from our dazzled eye,
  Still may the garland shed perfume, and shine,
  While Laura's mind and Sappho's heart are thine.

Literary Chronicle.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH FRUITS.

The Strawberry.--Many varieties have been imported from other countries, and a far greater
number have been obtained in this, chiefly from seeds properly prepared by cross impregnation;
by which means, the strawberry has been wonderfully improved; instance the hautboys, scarlet,
chilli, but particularly the splendid varieties, called "Wilmot's superb," and "Keen's seedlings."

The Raspberry, is also found wild in the British isles, on its native site, (with its companions,
the bramble, and dewberry)--its shoots and fruits are diminutive, though the flavour of the
berry is rich. No plant requires the skilful hand of the pruner more than this; of all others,
it is, perhaps, the most viviparous, throwing up, annually, a vast redundancy of shoots, which,
if not displaced at the proper season, would impoverish not only the fruit of the present,
but also the bearing wood of the next year. The Dutch fruiterers have been successful in obtaining
two or three fine varieties from seeds; and as this field of improvement is open, no doubt
further exertions will bring forth new and valuable sorts.

The Gooseberry.--No domesticated fruit sports into greater variety than this: the endless lists
of new sorts is a proof of this, and many large and excellent sorts there are, particularly
the old Warrington red.

The Cherry.--Cultivation has accomplished wonders in the improvement of this beautiful native
fruit. Instead of a lofty forest-tree bearing small bitter fruit, it has been long introduced
to our orchards, is changed in appearance and habit, and even in its manner of bearing; has
sported into many varieties, as numerous as they are excellent--nor is such improvement at
an end: several new varieties have lately started into existence.

The Plum.--The lowest grade of this class of fruits is the almost useless sloe in the hedge;
and none but those in some degree acquainted with the matter could, on beholding the acidous,
puny sloe, and the ample, luscious magnum bonum plum, together, readily believe that they were
kindred, or that the former was the primitive representative of the latter. The intermediate
links of this connexion are the bullace, muscle, damacene, &c., of all which there are many
varieties. In nurserymen's lists, there are many improved sorts, not only excellent plums,
but excellent fruit,--the green gage and imperatrice are admirable.

The Pear, was originally an inhabitant of European forests: there it grew to be a middle-sized
tree, with small leaves, and hard, crude-tasted, petty fruit: since its introduction and naturalization
in the orchard, it has well repaid the planter's care. The French gardeners have been long
celebrated for their success and indefatigable perseverance in the cultivation of the pear;
almost all our superior sorts are from that country. The monastic institutions all over Europe,
but particularly in France, were the sources from whence flowed many excellent horticultural
rules, as well as objects.

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONTHS

  On the woods are hung
  With many tints, the fading livery
  Of life, in which it mourns the coming storms
  Of winter.

  PERCIVAL.

Change is the characteristic of the month of October; in short, it includes the birth and death--the
Alpha and Omega--of Nature. Hence, it is the most inviting to the contemplatist, and during
a day in October, the genius of melancholy may walk out and take her fill, in meditating on
its successive scenes of regeneration and decay.

Dissemination, or the sowing of seed, is the principal business of this month in the economy
of nature; which alone is an invaluable lesson, a "precept upon precept" to a cultivated mind.
This is variously effected, besides by the agency of man; and it is a satire on his self-sufficiency
which should teach him that Nature worketh out her way by means that he knoweth not.

Planting, that agreeable and patriotic art, is another of the October labours. Here, however,
the pride of man is again baffled, when he considers how many thousand trees are annually planted
by birds, to whom he evinces his gratitude by destroying them, or cruelly imprisoning them
for the idle gratification of listening to their warbling, which he may enjoy in all its native
melody amidst the delightful retreats of woods and groves. This leads us to the October economy
of birds. "Swallows are generally seen for the last time this month, the house-martin the latest.
The rooks return to the roost trees, and the tortoise begins to bury himself for the winter.
Woodcocks begin to arrive, and keep dropping in from the Baltic singly or in pairs till December.
The snipe also comes now;" and with the month, by a kind of savage charter, commences the destruction
of the pheasant, to swell the catalogue of the created wants and luxuries of the table. "One
of the most curious natural appearances," says Mr. L. Hunt, "is the gossamer, which is an infinite
multitude of little threads shot out by minute spiders, who are thus wafted by the wind from
place to place." In this manner spiders are known to cross extents of many miles.

The weather becomes misty, though the middle of the day is often very fine. Hence it is the
proper season for the enjoyment of forest scenery. The leaves, which, towards the close of
September, began to assume their golden tints and gorgeous hues, now lecture us with their
scenes of falling grandeur; and nothing is more delightful than in an autumnal walk to emerge
from the pensive gloom of a thick forest, and just catch the last glimpse of an October sun,
shedding his broad glare over the varied tints of its leaves and branches, for the sombre and
silvery barks of the latter add not a little to the picture. "The hedges," says the author
already quoted, "are now sparkling with their abundant berries,--the wild rose with the hip,
the hawthorn with the haw, the blackthorn with the sloe, the bramble with the blackberry; and
the briony, privet, honey-suckle, elder, holly, and woody nightshade, with their other winter
feasts for the birds."

October is the great month for brewing--that luxurious and substantial branch of rural economy;
and many and merry are the songs and stories of nut-brown October to "gladden the heart of
man," with the soul-stirring influence of its regalings. Hops, too, are generally picked this
month.

October in Italy is thus vividly described: "It was now the beginning of the month of October;
already the gales which attend upon the equinox swept through the woods and trees; the delicate
chestnut woods, which last dare encounter the blasts of spring, and whose tender leaves do
not expand until they may become a shelter to the swallow, had already changed their hues,
and shone yellow and red, amidst the sea-green foliage of the olives, the darker but light
boughs of the cork-trees, and the deep and heavy masses of ilexes and pines."

       *       *       *       *       *

Astronomical Occurences

FOR  OCTOBER, 1827.

(For the Mirror.)

Mercury is in conjunction with Jupiter on the 7th at noon: he is too near the sun to be observed
this month.

Venus passes her superior conjunction on the 7th, at 10 h. morning, thenceforward she sets
after the sun, and becomes an evening star. This interesting planet makes a very near appulse
to Jupiter on the 16th at 1 h. morning.

Jupiter is in conjunction with the sun on the 18th at 10-3/4 h. evening. He is afterwards a
morning star, preceding the sun in his rising.

The Georgian planet, or Herschel, ceases from his retrograde movement on the 4th, and appears
stationary till the 11th, when he resumes a direct motion. He is still in a favourable situation
for evening observation. Its great distance from the earth, and the long period of its revolution
round the sun prevent any rapid change in its situation among the fixed stars; the place therefore
which the Greorgium Sidus occupied in Capricornus in July, (see MIRROR for that month) is so
contiguous to that planet's present position, that the observations then made may be a sufficient
guide for the present month. Its slow motion among the fixed stars makes it participate in
that daily change which is common to them, hence the planet may be observed in the same place
a few minutes earlier every night. It comes to the south on the 1st at 7 h. 16 min., and on
the 31st at 5 h. 26 min. evening.

The moon is in opposition on the 5th; in apogee on the 11th; in conjunction on the 20th; and
in perigee on the 23rd. She is in conjunction with Saturn on the 13th at 3-1/4 h. after with
Mars on the 18th at 2 h. morning; and Jupiter and Venus on the 20th, with the former at 1-1/2
h. and the latter at 11 h. afternoon, also with Mercury on the 21st at 10-1/2 h. afternoon.

