Flushed with their successes at Northampton and Rochester, the royalists marched through Kent
and Sussex, plundering and devastating the lands of their enemies. Though masters of the open
country, they had to encounter the resistance of the Clare castles, and the solid opposition
of the Cinque Ports. Their presence on the south coast was specially necessary, for Queen Eleanor,
who had gone abroad, was waiting, with an army of foreign mercenaries, on the Flemish coast,
for an opportunity of sailing to her husband's succour. The royal army was hampered by want
of provisions, and was only master of the ground on which it was camped. As a first fruit of
the alliance with Llewelyn, Welsh soldiers lurked behind every hedge and hill, cut off stragglers,
intercepted convoys, and necessitated perpetual watchfulness. At last the weary and hungry
troops found secure quarters in Lewes, the centre of the estates of Earl Warenne.

Montfort then marched southwards from the capital. Besides the baronial retinues, a swarm of
Londoners, eager for the fray, though unaccustomed to military restraints, accompanied him.
On May 13 he encamped at Fletching, a village hidden among the dense oak woods of the Weald,
some nine miles north of Lewes. A last effort of diplomacy was attempted by Bishop Cantilupe
of Worcester who, despite papal censures, still accompanied the baronial forces. But the royalists
would not listen to the mediation of so pronounced a partisan. Nothing therefore was left but
the appeal to the sword.

The royal army was the more numerous, and included the greater names. Of the heroes of the
struggle of 1258 the majority was in the king's camp, including most of the lords of the Welsh
march, and the hardly less fierce barons of the north, whose grandfathers had wrested the Great
Charter from John. The returned Poitevins with their followers mustered strongly, and the confidence
of the royalists was so great that they neglected all military preparations. The poverty of
Montfort's host in historic families attested the complete disintegration of the party since
1263. Its strength lay in the young enthusiasts, who were still dominated by the strong personality
and generous ideals of Leicester, such as the Earl of Gloucester, or Humphrey Bohun of Brecon,
whose father, the Earl of Hereford, was fighting upon the king's side. Early on the morning
of May 14 Montfort arrayed his troops and marched southward in the direction of Lewes. Dawn
had hardly broken when the troops were massed on the summit of the South Downs, overlooking
Lewes from the north-west.

Lewes is situated on the right bank of a great curve of the river Ouse, which almost encircles
the town. To the south are the low-lying marshes through which the river meanders towards the
sea, while to the north, east, and west are the bare slopes of the South Downs, through which
the river forces its way past the gap in which the town is situated. To the north of the town
lies the strong castle of the Warennes, wherein Edward had taken up his quarters, while in
the southern suburb the Cluniac priory of St. Pancras, the chief foundation of the Warennes,
afforded lodgings for King Henry and the King of the Romans. When Simon reached the summit
of the downs, his movements were visible from the walls. But the royal army was still sleeping
and its sentinels kept such bad watch that the earl was able to array his troops at his leisure.

From the summit of the hills two great spurs, separated by a waterless valley, slope down towards
the north and west sides of the town. The more northerly led straight to the castle, and the
more southerly to the priory. Montfort's plan was to throw his main strength on the attack
on the priory, while deluding the enemy into the belief that his chief object was to attack
the castle. He was not yet fully recovered from his fall from his horse, and it was known that
he generally travelled in a closed car or horse-litter. This vehicle he posted in a conspicuous
place on the northerly spur, and planted over it his standard. In front of it were massed the
London militia, mainly infantry and the least effective element in his host. Meanwhile the
knights and men-at-arms were mustered on the southerly spur under the personal direction of
Montfort, who held himself in the rear with the reserve, while the foremost files were commanded
by the young Earl of Gloucester, whom Simon solemnly dubbed to knighthood before the assembled
squadrons. Then the two divisions of the army advanced towards Lewes, hoping to find their
enemies still in their beds.

At the last moment the alarm was given, and before the barons approached the town, the royalists,
pouring out of castle, town, and priory, hastily took up their position face to face to the
enemy. All turned out as Montfort had foreseen. Edward, emerging from the castle with his cousin
Henry of Almaine, his Poitevin uncles, and the warriors of the march, observed the standard
of Montfort on the hill, and supposing that the earl was with his banner, dashed impetuously
against the left wing of Leicester's troops. He soon found himself engaged with the Londoners,
who broke and fled in confusion before his impetuous charge. Eager to revenge on the flying
citizens the insults they had directed against his parents, he pursued the beaten militia for
many a mile, inflicting terrible damage upon them. On his way he captured Simon's standard
and horse-litter, and slew its occupants, though they were three royalist members of the city
aristocracy detained there for sure keeping. When the king's son drew rein he was many miles
from Lewes, whither he returned, triumphant but exhausted.

The removal of Edward and the marchers from the field enabled Montfort to profit by his sacrifice
of the Londoners. The followers of the two kings on the left of the royalist lines could not
withstand the weight of the squadrons of Leicester and Gloucester. The King of the Romans was
driven to take refuge in a mill, where he soon made an ignominious surrender. Henry himself
lost his horse under him and was forced to yield himself prisoner to Gilbert of Gloucester.
The mass of the army was forced back on to the town and priory, which were occupied by the
victors. Scarcely was their victory assured when Edward and the marchers came back from the
pursuit of the Londoners. Thereupon the battle was renewed in the streets of the town. It was,
however, too late for the weary followers of the king's son to reverse the fortunes of the
day. Some threw themselves into the castle, where the king's standard still floated; Edward
himself took sanctuary in the church of the Franciscans; many strove to escape eastwards over
the Ouse bridge or by swimming over the river. The majority of the latter perished by drowning
or by the sword: but two compact bands of mail-clad horsemen managed to cut their way through
to safety. One of these, a force of some two hundred, headed by Earl Warenne himself, and his
brothers-in-law, Guy of Lusignan and William of Valence, secured their retreat to the spacious
castle of Pevensey, of which Warenne was constable, and from which the possibility of continuing
their flight by sea remained open. Of greater military consequence was the successful escape
of the lords of the Welsh march, whose followers were next day the only section of the royalist
army which was still a fighting force. This was the only immediate limitation to the fulness
of Montfort's victory. After seven weary years, the judgment of battle secured the triumph
of the "good cause," which had so long been delayed by the weakness of his confederates and
the treachery of his enemies. Not the barons of 1258, but Simon and his personal following
were the real conquerors at Lewes.

CHAPTER VI.

THE RULE OF MONTFORT AND THE ROYALIST RESTORATION.

On the day after the battle, Henry III. accepted the terms imposed upon him by Montfort in
a treaty called the "Mise of Lewes," by which he promised to uphold the Great Charter, the
Charter of the Forests, and the Provisions of Oxford. A body of arbitrators was constituted,
in which the Bishop of London was the only Englishman, but which included Montfort's friend,
Archbishop Eudes Rigaud of Rouen; the new papal legate, Guy Foulquois, cardinal-bishop of Sabina;
and Peter the chamberlain, Louis IX.'s most trusted counsellor, with the Duke of Burgundy or
Charles of Anjou, to act as umpire. These arbitrators were, however, to be sworn to choose
none save English councillors, and Henry took oath to follow the advice of his native-born
council in all matters of state. An amnesty was secured to Leicester and Gloucester; and Edward
and Henry of Almaine surrendered as hostages for the good behaviour of the marchers, who still
remained under arms. By the establishment of baronial partisans as governors of the castles,
ministers, sheriffs, and conservators of the peace, the administration passed at once into
the hands of the victorious party. Three weeks later writs were issued for a parliament which
included four knights from every shire. In this assembly the final conditions of peace were
drawn up, and arrangements made for keeping Henry under control for the rest of his life, and
Edward after him, for a term of years to be determined in due course. Leicester and Gloucester
were associated with Stephen Berkstead, the Bishop of Chichester, to form a body of three electors.
By these three a Council of Nine was appointed, three of whom were to be in constant attendance
at court; and without their advice the king was to do nothing. Hugh Despenser was continued
as justiciar, while the chancery went to the Bishop of Worcester's nephew, Thomas of Cantilupe,
a Paris doctor of canon law, and chancellor of the University of Oxford.

Once more a baronial committee put the royal authority into commission, and ruled England through
ministers of its own choice. While agreeing in this essential feature, the settlement of 1264
did not merely reproduce the constitution of 1258. It was simpler than its forerunner, since
there was no longer any need of the cumbrous temporary machinery for the revision of the whole
system of government, nor for the numerous committees and commissions to which previously so
many functions had been assigned. The main tasks before the new rulers were not constitution-making
but administration and defence. Moreover, the later constitution shows some recognition of
the place due to the knights of the shire and their constituents. It is less closely oligarchical
than the previous scheme. This may partly be due to the continued divisions of the greater
barons, but it is probably also in large measure owing to the preponderance of Simon of Montfort.
The young Earl of Gloucester and the simple and saintly Bishop of Chichester were but puppets
in his hands. He was the real elector who nominated the council, and thus controlled the government.
Every act of the new administration reflects the boldness and largeness of his spirit.

The pacification after Lewes was more apparent than real, and there were many restless spirits
that scorned to accept the settlement which Henry had so meekly adopted. The marchers were
in arms in the west, and were specially formidable because they detained in their custody the
numerous prisoners captured at the sack of Northampton. The fugitives from Lewes were holding
their own behind the walls of Pevensey, though Earl Warenne and other leaders had made their
escape to France, where they joined the army which Queen Eleanor had collected on the north
coast for the purpose of invading England and restoring her husband to power. The papacy and
the whole official forces of the Church were in bitter hostility to the new system. The collapse
of Henry's rule had ruined the papal plans in Sicily, where Manfred easily maintained his ground
against so strong a successor of the unlucky Edmund as Charles of Anjou. The papal legate,
Guy Foulquois, was waiting at Boulogne for admission into England, and, far from being conciliated
by his appointment as an arbitrator, was dexterously striving to make the arbitration ineffective,
by summoning the bishops adhering to Montfort to appear before him, and sending them back with
orders to excommunicate Earl Simon and all his supporters. The only gleam of hope was to be
found in the unwillingness of the King of France to interfere actively in the domestic disputes
of England. The death of Urban IV. for the moment brought relief, but, after a long vacancy,
the new pope proved to be none other than the legate Guy, who in February, 1265, mounted the
papal throne as Clement IV. It was to no purpose that Walter of Cantilupe assembled the patriotic
bishops and appealed to a general council, or that radical friars like the author of the Song
of Lewes formulated the popular policy in spirited verse. The greatest forces of the time were
steadily opposed to the revolutionary government, and rare strength and boldness were necessary
to make head against them.

Before the end of 1264 the vigour of Earl Simon triumphed over some of his immediate difficulties.
In August he summoned the military forces of the realm to meet the threatened invasion. Adverse
storms, however, dispersed Queen Eleanor's fleet, and her mercenaries, weary of the long delays
that had exhausted her resources, went home in disgust. This left Simon free to betake himself
to the west, and on December 15 he forced the marcher lords to accept a pacification called
the Provisions of Worcester, by which they agreed to withdraw for a year and a day to Ireland,
leaving their families and estates in the hands of the ruling faction.

On the day after the signature of the treaty, Henry, who accompanied Simon to the west, issued
from Worcester the writs for a parliament that sat in London from January to March in 1265.
From the circumstances of the case this famous assembly could only be a meeting of the supporters
of the existing government. So scanty was its following among the magnates that writs of summons
were only issued to five earls and eighteen barons, though the strong muster of bishops, abbots,
and priors showed that the papal anathema had done little to shake the fidelity of the clergy
to Montfort's cause. The special feature of the gathering, however, was the summoning of two
knights from every shire, side by side with the barons of the faithful Cinque Ports and two
representatives from every city and borough, convened by writs sent, not to the sheriff, after
later custom, but to the cities and boroughs directly. It was the presence of this strong popular
element which long caused this parliament to be regarded as the first really representative
assembly in our history, and gained for Earl Simon the fame of being the creator of the House
of Commons. Modern research has shown that neither of these views can be substantiated. It
was no novelty for the crown to strengthen the baronial parliaments by the representatives
of the shire-moots, and there were earlier precedents for the holding meetings of the spokesmen
of the cities and boroughs. What was new was the combination of these two types of representatives
in a single assembly, which was convoked, not merely for a particular administrative purpose,
but for a great political object. The real novelty and originality of Earl Simon's action lay
in his giving a fresh proof of his disposition to fall back upon the support of the ordinary
citizen against the hostility or indifference of the magnates, to whom the men of 1258 wished
to limit all political deliberation. This is in itself a sufficient indication of policy to
give Leicester an almost unique position among the statesmen to whom the development of our
representative institutions are due. But just as his parliament was not in any sense our first
representative assembly, so it did not include in any complete sense a House of Commons at
all. We must still wait for a generation before the rival and disciple of Montfort, Edward,
the king's son, established the popular element in our parliament on a permanent basis. Yet
in the links which connect the early baronial councils with the assemblies of the three estates
of the fourteenth century, not one is more important than Montfort's parliament of January, 1265.

The chief business of parliament was to complete the settlement of the country. Simon won a
new triumph in making terms with the king's son. Edward had witnessed the failure of his mother's
attempts at invasion, the futility of the legatine anathema, and the collapse of the marchers
at Worcester. He saw it was useless to hold out any longer, and unwillingly bought his freedom
at the high price that Simon exacted. He transferred to his uncle the earldom of Chester, including
all the lands in Wales that might still be regarded as appertaining to it. This measure put
Simon in that strong position as regards Wales and the west which Edward had enjoyed since
the days of his marriage. It involved a breach in the alliance between Edward and the marchers,
and the subjection of the most dangerous district of the kingdom to Simon's personal authority.
It was safe to set free the king's son, when his territorial position and his political alliances
were thus weakened.

At the moment of his apparent triumph, Montfort's authority began to decline. It was something
to have the commons on his side: but the magnates were still the greatest power in England,
and in pressing his own policy to the uttermost, Simon had fatally alienated the few great
lords who still adhered to him. There was a fierce quarrel in parliament between Leicester
and the shifty Robert Ferrars, Earl of Derby. For the moment Leicester prevailed, and Derby
was stripped of his lands and was thrown into prison. But his fate was a warning to others,
and the settlement between Montfort and Edward aroused the suspicions of the Earl of Gloucester.
Gilbert of Clare was now old enough to think for himself, and his close personal devotion to
Montfort could not blind him to the antagonism of interests between himself and his friend.
He was gallant, strenuous, and high-minded, but quarrelsome, proud, and unruly, and his strong
character was balanced by very ordinary ability. His outlook was limited, and his ideals were
those of his class; such a man could neither understand nor sympathise with the broader vision
and wider designs of Leicester. Moreover, with all Simon's greatness, there was in him a fierce
masterfulness and an inordinate ambition which made co-operation with him excessively difficult
for all such as were not disposed to stand to him in the relation of disciple to master. And
behind the earl were his self-seeking and turbulent sons, set upon building up a family interest
that stood directly in the way of the magnates' claim to control the state. Thus personal rivalries
and political antagonisms combined to lead Earl Gilbert on in the same course that his father,
Earl Richard, had traversed. The closest ally of Leicester became his bitterest rival. The
victorious party split up in 1265, as it had split up in 1263. And the dissolution of the dominant
faction once more gave Edward a better chance of regaining the upper hand than was to be hoped
for from foreign mercenaries and from papal support.

Gloucester was the natural leader of the lords of the Welsh march. He was not only the hereditary
lord of Glamorgan, but had received the custody of William of Valence's forfeited palatinate
of Pembroke. He had shown self-control in separating himself so long from the marcher policy;
and his growing suspicion of the Montforts threw him back into his natural alliance with them.
Even after the treaty of Worcester, the marchers remained under arms. They had obtained from
the weakness of the government repeated prolongations of the period fixed for their withdrawal
into Ireland. It was soon rumoured that they were sure of a refuge in Gloucester's Welsh estates,
and Leicester, never afraid of making enemies, bitterly reproached Earl Gilbert with receiving
the fugitives into his lands. Shortly after the breaking up of parliament, Gloucester fled
to the march, and a little later William of Valence and Earl Warenne landed in Pembrokeshire
with a small force of men-at-arms and crossbowmen. There was no longer any hope of carrying
out the Provisions of Worcester, and once more Montfort was forced to proceed to the west to
put down rebellion.

By the end of April Montfort was at Gloucester, accompanied by the king and Edward, who, despite
his submission, remained virtually a prisoner. Earl Gilbert was master of all South Wales,
and closely watched his rival's movements from the neighbouring Forest of Dean. It was with
difficulty that Earl Simon and his royal captives advanced from Gloucester to Hereford, but
Earl Gilbert preferred to negotiate rather than to push matters to extremities. He went in
person to Hereford and renewed his homage to the king. Arbitrators were appointed to settle
the disputes between the two earls, and a proclamation was issued declaring that the rumour
of dissension between them was "vain, lying, and fraudulently invented". For the next few days
harmony seemed restored.

Gloucester's submission lured Leicester into relaxing his precautions. His enemies took advantage
of his remissness to hatch an audacious plot which soon enabled them to renew the struggle
under more favourable conditions. Since his nominal release, Edward had been allowed the diversions
of riding and hunting, and on May 28 he was suffered to go out for a ride under negligent or
corrupt guard. Once well away from Hereford, the king's son fled from his lax custodians and
joined Roger Mortimer, who was waiting for him in a neighbouring wood. On the next day he was
safe behind the walls of Mortimer's castle of Wigmore, and, the day after, met Earl Gilbert
at Ludlow, where he promised to uphold the charters and expel the foreigners. Valence and Warenne
hurried from Pembrokeshire and made common cause with Edward and Gilbert. Edward then took
the lead in the councils of the marchers, who, from that moment, obtained a unity of purpose
and policy that they had hitherto lacked. He and his allies could claim to be the true champions
of the Charters and the Provisions of Oxford against the grasping foreigner who strove to rule
over king and barons alike.

Montfort's small force was cut off from its base by the rapidity of the marchers' movements.
It was in vain that all the supporters of the existing government were summoned to the assistance
of the hard-pressed army at Hereford. Before the end of June, Edward completed the conquest
of the Severn valley by the capture of the town and castle of Gloucester. A broad river and
a strong army stood between Montfort and succour from England. Leicester then turned to Llewelyn
of Wales, who took up his quarters at Pipton, near Hay. There, on June 22, a treaty was signed
between the Welsh prince and the English king by which Henry was forced to make huge concessions
to Llewelyn in order to secure his alliance. Llewelyn was recognised as prince of all Wales.
The overlordship over all the barons of Wales was granted to him, and the numerous conquests,
which he had made at the expense of the marchers, were ceded to him in full possession.

Thus Llewelyn, like his grandfather in the days of the Great Charter, profited by the dissensions
of the English to obtain the recognition of his claims which had invariably been refused when
England was united. The Welsh prince gained a unique opportunity of making his weight felt
in general English politics, but with all his ability he hardly rose to the occasion. Montfort
had pressing need of his help. A few days after the treaty of Pipton, Gloucester Castle opened
its gates to Edward, and the marchers advanced westwards to seek out Earl Simon at Hereford.
Leicester fled in alarm before their overwhelming forces. He was driven from the Wye to the
Usk, and, beaten in a sharp fight on Newport bridge, found refuge only by retreating up the
Usk valley, whence he escaped northwards into the hilly region where Llewelyn ruled over the
lands once dominated by the Mortimers. Before long Montfort's English followers grew weary
of the hard conditions of mountain warfare. With their heavy armour and barbed horses it was
difficult for them to emulate the tactics of the Welsh, and they revolted against the simple
diet of milk and meat that contented their Celtic allies. They could not get on without bread,
and, as bread was not to be found among the hills, they forced their leader to return to the
richer regions of the east. Llewelyn did little to help them in their need, and did not accompany
them in their march back to the Severn valley, though a large but disorderly force of Welsh
infantry still remained with Simon as the fruit of the alliance with their prince.

By the end of July, Simon was once more in the Severn valley, seeking for a passage over the
river. On August 2 he found a ford over the stream some miles south of Worcester. There he
crossed with all his forces and encamped for the night at Kempsey, one of Bishop Cantilupe's
manors on the left bank. His skill as a general had extricated him from a position of the utmost
peril. All might yet be regained if he could join forces with an army of relief which his son
Simon had slowly levied in the south and midlands. But his quarrel with Gloucester and his
alliance with the Welsh had done much to undermine Montfort's popularity, and the younger Simon
had no appreciation of the necessity for decisive action. Summoned from the long siege of Pevensey
by his father's danger, he wasted time in plundering the lands of the royalists, and only left
London on July 8, whence he led his men by slow stages to Kenilworth. On July 31 young Simon's
troops took up their quarters for the night in the open country round Kenilworth castle. They
had no notion that the enemy was at hand and troubled neither to defend themselves nor to keep
watch. Edward, warned by spies of their approach, abandoned his close guard of the Severn fords,
and in the early morning of August 1 fell suddenly upon the sleeping host and scattered it
with little difficulty. The younger Simon and a few of his followers took refuge in the castle.
As a fighting force the army of relief ceased to exist.

