Hence the two terms of our comparison are: 1. LANGUAGE, as the miniature and image of the whole,
with, 2. The World or Universe, in that larger sense in which it is the whole, and, as such,
includes Language and all else.

Observe, in the next place, that Art, whether in the larger or in the smaller sense which we
have assigned to it, is the Product of the Combination and Blending of Science with Nature
(reflective knowledge with natural impression); or, speaking in the concrete, of the conjunction
of man with the outside world; man as the Agent or Actor, and the World or Nature as the Object
wrought upon.

In the production of Speech, the phonos or mere sound is the natural, unwrought material, which
corresponds with the Reality of Nature; and the Meaning or Minding which acts on, articulates
and organizes the Sound into Speech, and which measures the sound quantitatively, as in Music,
is the Scientific Attribute corresponding with Knowledge. The result of these two in combination
is the Art of Speech, generally, and Improvisation or Song as the Fine Art of this Lingual Domain.

But passing from the Abstract to the Concrete Domain, Unwrought Natural Sound, bearing its
proportion of meaning, furnishes the great basic department of language, which, for the reason
that it is basic, is usually regarded as the whole of language, namely, ORAL SPEECH, or SPEECH
LANGUAGE, as distinguished from MUSIC AND SONG.

Music, on the other hand, is wrought or measured Sound, bearing also its proportion of meaning;
a superior language, corresponding with Science, from its relation to measure, to numbers,
to fixed laws; as Oral Speech corresponds, in its freedom and unconstraint, with Nature.

Music and Oral Language united or married to each other constitute SONG, which is then the
analogue or type, or Nature's hieroglyph, in this Domain, of Art.

We say instinctively the Art of Speech; the Science of Music, and the Art of Singing. In the
first instance, Art is used for Natural Performance or Nature; but the whole of speech falling
within the domain of art or performance, its lowest or natural division still has some claim
to the distinction of an art. The first step of this series, Nature, and the third step, Art,
repeat each other by overstepping the second, which is Science, as Do is accordant with Mi,
but disharmonic with Re. It is, therefore, from the instinctual perception of this harmony,
that Oral Speech, the basis of Language, the true Nature-department of Language, is still denominated
the Art of Speech.

Adhering, however, to the Concrete Domain, and seeking our analogies there, oral speech, a
Concrete Thing, does not directly correspond with Nature, an Abstract Conception, but with
The World, a concrete thing; nor does Music, a Concrete Thing, correspond with Science, an
Abstract Conception, but with Man (the Mind-being, Knowledge-being, the Science-being), a concrete
thing; nor, again, does Song, a Concrete Thing, correspond with Art, an Abstract Conception,
but with Human Product or Doing, a concrete thing. Song is again but the lowest and simple
expression for that combination of Music and Oral Expression, aided by Action, to which the
Italians, full of instinct for Art, have given the name OPERA, THE WORK par excellence, the
culmination of Art in Movement and Sound. This word, from the Latin, opus, operari, work, to
work, connects in idea with the Greek [Greek: poiheô], and the whole with Action and Art. This
last relationship accounts beautifully for the fact that the words poetry, poesy, and poet
should be derived from the Greek word [Greek: poiheô], which signifies simply TO DO.

The first threefold division of Language and of The Universe, both brought into a parallelism
in the Concrete--the three ascending Stories of each Edifice, so to speak, when compared with
each other--appear then as shown in the table below:

          Language.        The Universe.
  3. SONG.            3. HUMAN ACHIEVEMENT.
  2. MUSIC.           2. MAN.
  1. ORAL SPEECH.     1. THE WORLD.

Oral Speech is the agglomerism of Sound, conceived of as roundish or in the lump, as an undifferentiated
Oneness or mass; and, when wholly unarticulated, it is the Bawl, a mere orthographical variation
of Ball; that is to say, it is, to the imagination, Globe-shaped, or World-shaped. It is the
concrete or massive world of Language or Speech.

Music is the Strain or the Abstractism of Sound. To strain means TO DRAW. Ab-stract is from
the Latin ab, FROM, and strahere, TO DRAW. The idea is not here roundish, as in the other case,
but elongate; sound made into a strain, a cord, or a string, equivalent to a line, which is
the subject of measure-ment, by notes (or points) and intervals. The line, with its twoness
of determination and extremity, has a relation to the number TWO, like that which the ball
or globe has to the number ONE. The line is at the same time the type of The Abstract, the
Domain of Science, and hence of Science, and of Knowledge, and again, in the concrete, of Man,
the Knowledge-being. The ball (bawl) is at the same time the type of The Concrete (con, WITH,
crescere, TO GROW; THE GROWN TOGETHER, or AGGLOMERATE-world), and hence of Nature, and again
in The Concrete, of The World, as contrasted with Man.

Song is the measure of the strain and the mingle of the bawl again commingled with each other,
in a composite blending of The Measured and The Free. As the Composity of that which has for
its numerical type Two, with that which has for its numerical type One, the proper numerical
type of Song is Three; or thus:

  Language.         Number.
  3. Song,            THREE.
  2. Music,           TWO.
  1. Oral Speech,     ONE.

These numerical analogues can only be adverted to here, and their meaning may not be very distinctly
perceived. Their full exposition and that of their immense importance as principles and guides
in the domain of analogy must be treated of elsewhere.

Rhythm is the measure of the strain. Music is the mingled measure of many strains. Song is
the higher mingling of music with the bawl (the phonos, or the material of Oral Speech).

Measure is the analogue of Science, and hence Music is another such analogue. Men-s, MIND,
and men-sura, MEASURE, are etymologically cognate words; so the English words MEAN-ing, THE
MIND that is in a thing, and MEAN, the average or measure, or the dia-meter, or through-measure
of a thing. Again, the concrete analogue of Science (Knowledge, Mind, The Abstract, etc.) is,
as we have seen, Man. MEN-s, MAN, hu-MAN-us, are again, probably, etymologically cognate to
homo, hominis, hoc men-s, as hodie is to hoc or hæc dies.

The Line or Cord is the instrument of measuring, and as such is again the type of Science,
as the Ball or Globe is the type of Nature; the Line, the type of strictness, straightness,
stretchedness, exactness; and the lump or aggregative form, that of Freedom from Constraint,
Solution, as of the water-drop, and of Absolute-ness (ab, FROM, and solvere, TO FREE). THE
RELATIVE repeats THE ABSTRACT; and THE ABSOLUTE, in Philosophy, repeats THE CONCRETE. The Relative
has for its type Two, or di-termination (dis or di, Two, and termini, ENDS); and the Absolute
has for its type One, [Greek: to hen] of the Greeks. EXISTENCE, embodying The Absolute and
The Relative; the one and the two; has for its type Three; and the all-sided aspect of Universal
Being which distinguishes and yet combines these three aspects of Being, is TRI-UNITY, OR THE
THREE IN ONE.

The Trinism, or third story of ascension in the constitution of things, again divides into
Two Branches, the first of which accords with Duism (music, line, science, mind, man), and
the second with Unism (oral speech, globe, nature, world).

In respect to Language, the division here made distributes Song (as the higher type, including
all music) into two great departments; as, 1. COMPOSITION, and 2. PERFORMANCE, or the Songas
a Thing, and Singing as an Act. Song as a whole is the analogue in language of the totality
of Human Achievement, in the distribution of the total Universe, as shown above. The same division
applied here distinguishes the permanent product of human activity, the book or the statue,
from the performance of man--the action of the author or sculptor. It is the distinction of
the Latins between 1. Res, and 2. Res gestæ.

Dismissing for the present the higher domain of Language, which is Song, we reduce the scope
of investigation to the lower and middle divisions, namely: 1. To Oral Speech, and 2. To Music;
and, in the distribution of the Universe at large, to the corresponding lower and middle divisions,
namely: 1. The World (Nature), and 2. Man (Mind).

Oral Speech, the Nature-department of language, separates, grammatically, into two grand Subdivisions,
as follows: 1. Analysis, The Elements of Language, namely, The Alphabetic and Syllabic distribution
of Language, culminating in Word-Building;--The Word in Language being THE INDIVIDUAL in that
Domain; and, 2. Synthesis, Construction, the Grammatical Domain proper, including the Parts
of Speech and their Syntax, or their putting together in a Structure or Lingual Construction.

The first of these is the Domain of the Elementality of Language, and corresponds with and
illustrates what Kant denominates QUALITY; as the name of one of the groups of three in his
table of the twelve Categories of the Understanding. This group of Quality includes 1. AFFIRMATION;
2. NEGATION; and 3. LIMITATION. By Affirmation is meant the Positive Element or Factor of Being;
by Negation, the Negative Element; and by Limitation is meant the Articulation, that is to
say, the jointing or joining of the Positive and Negative Elements, in a seam or ridge, which
is the existential reality, arising from the positive (quasi-negative) and the negative grounds
of Being.

The Positive Element or Factor of Oral Speech, the Absolute Reality or 'Affirmation' of Language,
is Vocal Utterance, or, specifically, the kind of Sound called VOWEL.

The Negative Element or Factor of Oral Speech, the 'Negation' of Kant, as illustrated in the
Speech Domain, is SILENCE; the Silences or Intervals of Rest which intervene between Sounds
(and, by repetition, between Syllables, Words, Sentences, and the still larger divisions of
Speech).

The Limitational Element of Oral Speech is CONSONANTISM, or, specifically, the Consonant Sounds,
which for that reason are otherwise denominated Articulations, or jointings; as they are the
breaks of the otherwise continuous vocal utterance of Vowel Sound, and, at the same time, the
joinings between the fragments of Vowel Sound, namely, the Vowels, and the surrounding and
intervening medium of Silence. The Consonants thus become, in a sense, the Bony Structure,
or Skeleton of Speech, the most prominent part, that which furnishes the fossil remains of
Language, which are investigated by the Comparative Philologists.

Sound, the Positive Element or Factor, the Affirmation, the Eternal Yea, the Absolute Reality,
is the SOMETHING of Speech.

Silence, the Negative Element or Factor, the Negation, the Eternal Nay, the Absolute Unreality,
is the NOTHING of Speech.

Articulate Sound, the Resultant Element, the Limitation or Articulation, the Eternal Transition,
the Arriving and Departing, is the EXISTENTIAL REALITY, which comes up between and out of the
Absolute Vocality (quasi-negative), and the Absolute Silence.

But the Vowel Absolute, the continuous, unbroken, unarticulated, undifferentiated, monotonous
Vowel-Sound, would be precisely equivalent to Silence. This, then, illustrates the famous fundamental
aphorism of the Philosophy of Hegel: SOMETHING = (equal to) NOTHING; and the seemingly absurd
Hegelian affirmation that the real Something is the resultant of the conjunction of two Nothings.

What Kant denominates Quality, would be, for some uses, better denominated Elementism or Elementality,
and the Domain in which this principle dominates might then be called the Elementismus of such
larger Domain as may be under consideration. Thus the Elementismus (or Elementary Domain) of
Language would include Sounds, or the Alphabet, Syllables, and Root-Words. These are three
powers or gradations of the Roots of Language. This same domain might therefore be called the
Radicismus or Root-Domain of Language. Typically, one-letter, two-letter, and three-letter
roots, again, represent these three powers.

The Elementismus or Radicismus of the Universe, correspondential with that of Language, consists
of the Metaphysical, the Scientific, and the Descriptive Principles of Being. The parallelism
is exhibited throughout in the following table:

  Language.                                             Universe.

  3d Power. ROOT-WORDS                           3. DESCRIPTIVE GENERALIZATIONS.
  (Three-letter Syllables).                                    (Averages).
  2d Power. SYLLABLES                            2. SCIENTIFIC PRINCIPLES.
  (Two-letter Syllables).                                      (Force, Attraction, etc.)
                                    {3. ARTICULATIONS.                                 {3. CATEGORIES.
  1st Power.  THE ALPHABET {2. SILENCE.       1. METAPHYSICAL PRINCIPLES. {2. NOTHING.
  (One-letter Syllables).           {1. SOUND.                                         {1. SOMETHING.

It results from this table that the deep Metaphysical Domain, wherein Aristotle and Kant were
laboring to categorize the Universe, is the Alphabetic Domain of Universal Being; and that
their profound effort was, so to speak, to discover The Alphabet of the Universe. It also appears
that the Syllabarium of the Universe, and typically the open two-letter syllables of Language,
as bi, be, ba, correspond as analogues with the Physical Principles which lie at the basis
of the Sciences; and finally, that the completed Root-Words, typically the closed three-letter
syllables, or usual monosyllabic root-words, as min, men, man, correspond with the descriptive
generalizations or general averages of Natural Science, as Universe itself, Matter, Mind, Movement,
etc.

These analogies need further elaboration and confirmation to render them perfectly clear and
to establish them beyond cavil--such as space here does not admit of. Let us hurry on, therefore,
to the Relational or Constructive Domains of Language and the Universe, where the analogies
are more obvious.

The second of Kant's groups of Categories, in the order in which it is most appropriate now
to consider them, he denominates RELATION. Relation is that which intervenes between the PARTS
of a WHOLE.

Prepositions are especially defined in Grammar as words denoting relations. Our attention is
thus turned in the Domain of Language to the Parts of Speech; and to the Syntax (putting together),
or Construction of these Parts into the wholeness of Discourse. This is more specifically the
Department of Grammar. Conjointly these are what may be denominated the Relationismus of Language.
This is the Domain immediately above the Elementismus. In the same way the division of the
human body or any other object into Parts, Limbs, Members, etc., and the recombination of these
into a structural whole, arises in the scale of creation above the Domain of Elements (Ultimate,
Proximate, Chemical, etc.), this last embracing only the qualitative nature of the substances
entering into the structure. In the Universe at large, therefore, this Relational Domain is
that in which we shall find Things, Properties, Actions, and, specifically, the Relations between
such, and their Combinations into Structures and Departments, Branches, or Limbs of Being,
and finally into the total Universe itself, which is the analogue of the totality of Language.

Relation has a threefold aspect: first, in respect to Space; second, in respect to Time; and
third, in respect to Instance or Present Being, the conjunction of the Here and the Now.

The first of these aspects subdivides into what Kant denominates, 1. SUBSTANCE, and 2. INHERENCE.

The second of these aspects subdivides into what Kant denominates, 1. CAUSE, and 2. DEPENDENCE.

The third of these aspects of Relation Kant sums up in the term RECIPROCAL ACTION.

Commencing with the first of these three subdivisions of Relation, and making our application
within the Domain of Language, it is obvious that it refers to the Substantive and Adjective
region of Grammar; Substance relating to Substantives, and Inherence (or Attributes) to Adjectives;
or otherwise stated, thus:

  SUBSTANTIVES = THINGS   (= Substance.--Kant).

  ADJECTIVES = PROPERTIES (= Inherence.--Kant).

The one Thing inclusive of all minor Things is the Universe. The Universe as Thing, or the
concrete domain of Being, subdivides into the world of Things proper as distinguished from
the Personal world, or the Human world or Man. This first division of the substantive Universe
corresponds with the first grand grammatical division of Nouns Substantive into 1. Common Nouns
Substantive, and 2. Proper Nouns Substantive.

Common Nouns Substantive correspond with Things proper, not aspiring to the rank of Personality;
Things put in contrast with Persons; Things in that sense in which we speak of a person derogatorily
as a mere thing; hence, common or ordinary, and as a common, undistinguished herd of objects,
only named and discriminated by the class-name of the class of objects to which they belong.

Proper Nouns Substantive are the individual and distinctive names of Men, Women, and Children.
Hence they belong to and correspond with the domain of Personality, or to that of Man as against
the world of mere Things. Some objects, lower in the scale of Being than man, are treated with
that respect and consideration which ordinarily attach to Human Beings, and are then dignified
by applying to them Proper Names. These are especially the Domestic Animals immediately associated
with man; Mountains, Rivers, Lakes, etc. Restated, this discrimination is as follows:

1. COMMON NOUNS SUBSTANTIVE = THINGS, THE WORLD.

2. PROPER NOUNS SUBSTANTIVE = PERSONALITY, MAN.

It is to be borne in mind that, as a minor proportion of mere Things are raised to the dignity
of wearing Proper Names, so, on the other hand, Men, though appropriately distinguished by
prenomens and cognomens, may also sink to the character of Things, and be mentioned by class-names.
Thus it is that throughout Nature one domain overlaps another domain, and all of our discriminations,
though made in terms as if absolute, signify, in fact, merely the preponderance; thus, when
we say, that Proper Names apply to the Human Domain, that is true in preponderance, but not
absolutely or exclusively; and when we say that Common Names apply to Things below Persons,
the statement is true in preponderance, but not absolutely or exclusively.

Proper Names--The Human World in Language--are, in the next place, distinguished by Gender,
as that word itself is distinguished by Sex. By the principle of Overlapping, above explained,
this distinction of Gender or Sex descends in a minor degree into the Thing World; in a large
degree to the Animal World below man: in less degree to the Vegetable World; and in the least
degree to the Mineral and Abstract World. But characteristically and predominatingly, Sex is
predicated of Humanity, where it is developed in its highest perfection; and in the same degree
Gender in Grammar is, in predominance, confined to the Proper Nouns Substantive. Masculine
and Feminine are the only Proper Genders. Neuter Gender means of neither Gender, and includes
the great mass of Common Nouns, or the Thing World, as distinguished from Personality.

Reversing the order, and resuming the above discriminations in the two domains, Language and
the Universe, they are as follows:

  Language.                                 Universe.

                          {MASCULINE.               {MALE.
  PROPER-NOUN-DOM{               PERSON-DOM{
                          {Feminine.                         {Female.

  COMMON-NOUN-DOM.                        THING-DOM.

Again, in this Concrete World, the world of Persons and Things, Number reappears, and guides
the next great Grammatical division of Nouns Substantive; and the ruling numbers are, again,
One, Two, Three.

The Number One corresponds with the Singular Number in Grammar, and with the Individual or
Single Person (or Thing) in the Universe at large. The Number Two corresponds with the Dual
Number in Grammar, and with the Couple or Pair in the World of Persons (and Things); and finally
the Number Three corresponds with the Plural Number in Grammar and with Society or the many
among Persons (and Things); or in tabular form, thus:

  1. SINGULAR NUMBER,       THE NUMBER ONE (1).

  2. DUAL NUMBER,      THE NUMBER TWO (2).

  3. PLURAL NUMBER,    THE NUMBER THREE (3).

The Number Three, as the first Plural Number above the Dual, is the Head and Type of Plurality
in the grammatical discrimination, and stands representatively for all Plurality.

One, Two, and Three, are the Representative Numbers and Heads of the whole Cardinal Series
of Number.

First, Second, and Third are the corresponding Representatives and Heads of the Corresponding
Ordinal Series of Number. These latter numerals find their representation, grammatically, in
the next Grand Grammatical Distribution of the Proper Nouns Substantive, namely, PERSON, so
called, or, specifically, the

  1st PERSON,
  2d PERSON, and
  3d PERSON (of Proper Nouns).

This distribution represents properly the Rank or Degree of Persons in the Hierarchy of Personality;
the Ego ranking naturally as 'Number One.' Deference or Grace teaches us afterward to defer
to the personality of others, and converts our primitive notions of rank into opposites, in
a way which is indicated by the honorific use of Thou in addressing the Supreme, etc.

This idea of Personal Rank, the Hierarchical Ascension of Individuality or Personality in Society,
abstracted from the particular Individuals, and rendered purely official, becomes nominally
a new Part of Speech, and is the whole, substantially, of what we denominate the Pronouns.

The Pronoun, as a Part of Speech, is, therefore, the Analogue, within the Lingual Domain, of
The State or the Constitution, governmentally, of Human Society, the ascending and descending
rank of individuals in the social organization, the Heraldic Schedule of Man.

Finally we arrive at the consideration of the Casus or Case of Nouns Substantive.

The Accidents of Life or Being, the occasional states of Men or Things, as acting or being
acted upon, or simply as related to each other in Space, or otherwise, are here represented.
It is this which is meant by CASE, from the Latin casus, itself from the Latin cadere, TO FALL,
or to FALL OUT or HAPPEN. In the old Grammars, the Cases of the Nouns are denominated Accidents.
Ac-cid-ent, is from ad, TO, and cadere (cid), TO FALL; and the same root with ob (oc), gives
us OC-CAS-ion, OC-CAS-ionally, etc.

The Accidents of Being are a special kind of Inherence to the Substance of Being; the Relational
kind par excellence, as distinguished from the Qualitative kind; which last is denoted by the
proper Adjectives. The Oblique Case of a Noun Substantive, whether formed by an Inflexion or
by a Preposition, is therefore nothing else than a special kind of Adjective, destitute of
the property of Comparison, because it denotes the Accident instead of the Quality of Being,
and because Accidents or Relations between Things do not vary by degrees of Intensity as Qualities
do.

The above description of the Cases of Nouns applies especially to the Oblique Cases; that is
to say, to all except the Nominative Case.

The Nominative Case is itself susceptible of being regarded as an Accident; but its more important
office is that of the SUBJECT of the Proposition, which takes it out of the minor category
of an accident, or at least subordinates this latter view of its character.

The Accidents of Being in the Universe at large are therefore the analogues of the oblique
cases of Nouns Substantive in the Domain of Language; the Nominative Case representing, on
the contrary, the central figure in the particular member of discourse, and that which the
accidents or falls (casus) are perceived to relate to or affect.

Substantives and Adjectives were both formerly included under the term Nouns or Names; and
we have still to distinguish, when they are under special consideration, as they are here,
Nouns Substantive, and Nouns Adjective.

By regarding all the Oblique Cases of Nouns Substantive as a species or variety of Nouns Adjective,
and so classifying them along with the Adjectives proper, the Nominative Case alone remains
to represent the Substantive, in the higher and exclusive sense of the term. This is then,
at the same time, The Subject. The terms employed to designate them sufficiently indicate this
identity: Substantive, from sub, UNDER, and stans, STANDING; and Subject, from SUB, UNDER,
and jectus, THROWN or CAST. These are, therefore, nearly etymological equivalents.

Before passing to the consideration of the Subject and the Proposition, let us finish with
the Nouns Adjective, to which we have only given an incidental attention.

These are the representatives of Incidence or Attribution; and correspond to the entire adjectivity
pertaining to the substantiality of the real or concrete Universe; both Substance and Incidence
falling as parts of one domain within the larger domain of RELATION, which in Language is the
domain of Grammar proper, including Etymology and Syntax.

It may now be shown that this Adjective World is so much a world by itself that Kant's namings
for the four groups of the Categories of the Understanding, which we are here enlarging to
be the Categories of All Being, are precisely the most appropriate namings for the subdivisions
of the Adjective World. These are:

  1. Adjectives of QUALITY.
  2. Adjectives of RELATION.
  3. Adjectives of QUANTITY.
  4. Adjectives of MODE.

1. Adjectives of Quality are those which designate the qualities of things as good or bad,
etc. They are susceptible of three Degrees of Comparison; and are, without due consideration,
usually regarded by Grammarians as if they constituted the whole of the Adjective World.

2. Adjectives of Relation are, as we have seen, (chiefly) the Oblique Cases of the Noun Substantive.
They admit of no Degrees of Comparison. These have not heretofore been regarded as Adjectives;
but broadly and philosophically considered, they are so.

3. Adjectives of Quantity are the Numerals, which always instinctively find their way among
the Adjectives in the Grammar Books, without their presence there being duly accounted for,
that part of speech having been usually defined as relating exclusively to the Quality of Things.
These numeral Adjectives subdivide into Ordinal Numerals and Cardinal Numerals; and, like Adjectives
of Relation, they are not susceptible of being varied by the Degrees of Comparison.

4. Adjectives of Mode relate to the Conditions of Existence, as necessary and unnecessary,
important and unimportant, etc. They are somewhat ambiguous as to their susceptibility to comparison.
It is over this class of Adjectives that the Grammarians dispute. If a thing is necessary,
then, it is said, it cannot be more necessary, or most necessary, the Positive Case being itself
Absolute or Superlative. In some cases this rule is not so clear, and there is doubt whether
it is proper to apply the signs of Comparison or not. We may correctly say more important and
most important; and on the whole the Adjectives of Mode, or Modal Adjectives, are to be classed
as capable of Comparison.

These four classes of Adjectives again classify in respect to their usual susceptibility to
comparison, as follows:

  Adjectives of Quality,  }
  Adjectives of Mode      }    Capable of Comparison.
  Adjectives of Quantity, }    Incapable of Comparison.
  Adjectives of Relation, }

The Principle of Comparison is itself hierarchical, or pertaining to gradation or rank divinely
ordained; or as the mere scientist might prefer to say, naturally existent. It repeats, therefore,
in an echo, or correspondentially, THE PERSON (First, Second, Third) of Nouns Substantive and
Pronouns; and has relation to the Three Heads of the Ordinal Series of Number, 1st, 2d, 3d;
as THE NUMBER of Nouns Substantive (Singular, Dual, and Plural) has relation to the Three Heads
of the Cardinal Series of Number, 1, 2, 3.

The Qualities, the Relations, the Numerical Character, and the Modal Condition of Things, are
conjointly an Adjunct World to the Real World of Persons and Things, in the Universe at Large;
and taken collectively, it is that domain or aspect of the total Universe which is the scientific
echo to or analogue of the Part of Speech called Adjective in the Grammar of Language. The
Substantivity and the Adjectivity, taken again collectively with each other, are the totality
of the Concrete Universe considered in a state of Rest. The Movement of the Universe is expressed
by the verbal department of Language, and will receive our subsequent attention. It is, therefore,
from within this department that our concrete analogues of the larger Abstractions of the Universe,
Nature, Science, and Art, namely, The World, Man, and the Product of Man's labor, were taken.
They belong to the Substantivity (Kant's Substance) of the Universe, and their qualities, relations,
number, and mode of being belong to the Adjectivity of the Universe (Kant's Inherence); and
these two departments of Universal Being or of the possible aspects of Universal Being are
the Scientific Analogues, in the Universe at large, of Nouns Substantive and Nouns Adjective,
in the Grammar Department of the total distribution of the little Universe of Language; which
is the point to be here specially illustrated and insisted upon.

We pass now to the consideration of the Verb and Participle, related to Movement. The Great
Noun Class of Words, including the Nominative Noun Substantive, not yet brought into action
and made to functionate as Subject or Agent, together with the whole Adjective Family of Words
as above defined, is without Action. These words, and correspondentially, the Things and their
Attributes which they represent in the Universe at large, are static or immovable. The Universe,
viewed in the light of them solely, is a Universe at rest, or, as it were, arrested in its
progression through Time, and existing only in Space; for TIME has relation to MOTION, as SPACE
has relation to POSITION or REST. This aspect of the Universe or of Language may therefore
be appropriately denominated Statoid (or Spaceoid). The relations between the Parts of this
Aspect, denoted by the Prepositions and Conjunctions, are inert or static relations, concerning
predominantly Position in Space, as above, below, etc.

