PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100.

March 21, 1891.

MY LADY.

  She is not fair to outward view
    As many maidens be;
  (And into such a rage she flew
    On learning this from me;)
  And yet she's lovely, nay divine,
  Judged by her own peculiar line.

  She's deeply read. She knows as much
    As average sixth-form boys;
  But not the greatest sage could touch
    The high, aggressive joys
  That imp her wing, like bird of prey,
  When in my dates I go astray.

  Not only learning's pure serene
    Her soaring mind can charm;
  The tradesman, shrinking from a scene,
    Regards her with alarm,
  And many a 'bus conductor owns
  The pow'r of her metallic tones.

  Contentiously content, she takes
    Her strident way through life,
  And goodness only knows what makes
    Her choose to be my wife.
  Courage, poor heart! Thy yearnings stifle.
  She's not a girl with whom to trifle.

       *       *       *       *       *

KENSINGTON CORRESPONDENCE.

I.

Instead of the Sub-Kensington Gardens Railway scheme as proposed, why not a Sub-Serpentine
Line? Start it from the South Kensington Station, District-cum-Metropolitan system, run it
with one station well-underground in the middle of Exhibition Road, whence an easy ascent to
the Imperial Exhibition, when passengers would come up to "carp the vital airs," then right
away again, branching off left and right, thus bringing the mild Southerners into rapid, easy
communication, at all reasonable hours, and at reasonable prices, with the rugged denizens
of the Northern districts, East and West. If Kensington Gardens are to be touched at all--and,
not being sacred groves, there is no reason why they should not be, faute de mieux--a transverse
tunnelling from Kensington High Street to Queen's Road would do the trick. We will be happy
to render any assistance in our power, and are,--Yours truly,

WILL HONEYCOMB, MOLE, FERRET & CO.,

(Burrow-Knights.)

II.

O sir,--Pleese don't let us ave no nasty railwaies and tunels in Kinsinton Gardins, were we
now are so skludid, and the childern can play about, an no danger from nothink sep dogs, wich
is mosley musseled, or led with a string, an we ain't trubbled about them, an can ave a word
to say to a frend, or a cuzzin, you unnerstan, unner the treeses, so nice an quite, wich it
wold not be wen disterbd by ingins, an smoke, skreeges, an steem-wizzels. O, Mr. P., don't
let um do it.

Yours obeegentlee, SARA JANE, (Unner Nursrymade.)

III.

Sir,--The Railway underneath Kensington Gardens won't be noticed if only taken down deep enough
below the surface. No blow-holes, of course. No disfigurement. Take it under the centre path,
where there are no trees, then turn to the left outside the gate and burrow away to S. Kensington
Station. I can then get across the park in three minutes for a penny; and now I have to walk,
for which I haven't the time, or take a cab, for which I haven't the money.

Yours, A PRACTICAL PAUPER.

IV.

Sir,--I take this opportunity of pointing out that if anything at all is to be done with Kensington
Gardens, why not make a real good Rotten Row there? That would he a blessing and a convenience.
We're all so sick and tired of that squirrel-in-a-cage ride, round and round Hyde Park, and
that half-and-half affair in St. James's Park. No, Sir; now's the time, and now's the hour.
There's plenty of space for all equestrian wants, without interfering with the sylvan delights
of nurserymaids, children, lovers of nature, and all sorts of lovers too. For my part, if this
is not put forward as an alternative scheme, I shall vote for tunnelling under the Gardens
out of simple cussedness. If the reply, authoritatively given, be that the two schemes can
go and must go together, then I will vote for both, only let's have the equestrian arrangement
first.

Yours, JOLTIN TROTT,

Mount, Street, W, Captain 1st Lights and Liver Brigade.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRIUMPH OF BLACK AND WHITE.

"After all, the best of KEENE's life-work is to be found in the innumerable cuts which he contributed
to Punch during a period of nearly forty years; and still more in the originals of these, the
masterly pen-and-ink drawings which are now for the first time shown in a collected form to
the Public."

So says Mr. CLAUDE PHILLIPS, in his "Prefatory Note," to the "Catalogue of a Collection of
Drawings of the late CHARLES KEENE," now on view at the Rooms of the Fine Arts Society, 148,
New Bond Street.

If the British Public possess that "taste for Art" and that "sense of humour" which some claim
for and others deny to it, it (the B.P.) will throng the comfortable and well-lighted Gallery
in New Bond Street, where hang some hundreds of specimens of the later work of the most unaffected
humorist, and most masterly "Black-and-White" artist of his time. Walk up, Ladies and Gentlemen,
and see--such miracles of delineation, such witcheries of effect, as were never before put
on paper by simple pen-and-ink!

It is difficult to realise sometimes that it is pen and ink, and that only--all the delightful
display of fresh English landscape and unsophisticated British humanity, teeming with effects
of distance, hints of atmosphere, and suggestions of colour. Many a much-belauded brush is
but a fumbling and ineffective tool, compared with the ink-charged crowquill handled by CHARLES
KEENE. Look at "Grandiloquence!" (No. 220) There's composition! There's effect! Stretch of
sea, schooner, PAT's petty craft, grandiloquent PAT himself, a nautical Colossus astride on
his own cock-boat, with stable sea-legs firmly dispread, the swirl of the sea, the swish of
the waves, the very whiff of the wind so vividly suggested!--and all in some few square inches
of "Black-and-White!"

Look, again, at the breadth of treatment, the power of humorous characterisation, the strong
charm of technique, the colour, the action, the marvellous ease and accuracy of street perspective
in No. 16 ("The Penny Toy!"). Action? Why, you can see the old lady jump, let alone the frog!
Fix your eye on the frightened dame's foot, and you'll swear it jerks in time to the leap of
the "horrid reptile."

Or at that vivid bit of London "hoarding," and London low life, and London street-distance
in "'Andicapped!" (No. 25.) Good as is the "gaol-bird," is not the wonderfully real "hoarding"
almost better?

Who now can draw--or, for that matter, paint--such a shopkeeper, such a shop, such a child
customer as those in "All Alive!" (No. 41), where the Little Girl a-tip-toe with a wedge of
cheap "Cheddar" at the counter, comes down upon him of the apron with the crusher, "Oh, mother's
sent back this piece o' cheese, 'cause father says if he wants any bait when he's goin' a fishin',
he can dig 'em up in our garden!"

Are you a fisherman, reader? Then will you feel your angling as well as your artistic heart
warmed by No. 75 ("The Old Adam") and No. 6 ("Wet and Dry"), the former especially! What water,
what Scotch boys, what a "prencipled" (but piscatorial) "Meenister"! Don't you feel your elbow
twitch? Don't you want to snatch the rod from SANDY McDOUGAL's hand, and land that "fush" yourself,
Sawbath or no Sawbath?

But, bless us, one wants to describe, and praise, and purchase them all! A KEENE drawing, almost
any KEENE drawing, is "a thing of beauty and a joy for ever" to everyone who has an eye for
admirable art and adorable drollery. And good as is the fun of these drawings, the graphic
force, and breadth, and delicacy, and freshness, and buoyancy, and breeziness, and masterly
ease, and miraculous open-airiness, and general delightfulness of them, are yet more marked
and marvellous. Time would fail to tell a tithe of their merits. An essay might be penned on
any one of them--but fate forbid it should be, unless a sort of artistic CHARLES LAMB could
take the task in hand. Better far go again to New Bond Street and pass another happy hour or
two with the ruddy rustics and 'cute cockneys, the Scotch elders and Anglican curates, the
stodgy "Old Gents" and broad-backed, bunchy middle-class matrons, the paunchy port-swigging-buffers,
and hungry but alert street-boys, the stertorous cabbies, and chatty 'bus-drivers, the "festive"
diners-out and wary waiters, the Volunteers and vauriens, the Artists and 'Arries, the policemen
and sportsmen, amidst the incomparable street scenes, and the equally inimitable lanes, coppices,
turnip-fields and stubbles, green glades and snowbound country roads of wonderful, ever-delightful,
and--for his comrades and the Public alike--all-too-soon-departed CHARLES KEENE!

Nothing really worthy of his astonishing life-work, of even that part of it exhibited here,
could be written within brief compass, even by the most appreciative, admiring, and art-loving
of his sorrowing friends or colleagues. Let the British Public go to New Bond Street, and see
for itself, in the very hand-work of this great artist, what he made manifest during so many
years in the pages of Punch, namely, the supreme triumph of "Black-and-White" in the achievements
of its greatest master.

       *       *       *       *       *

  The Frogs, who lived a free and easy life
      (As in the ancient fable)
  Though not quite clear from internecine strife,
      Fancied they were well able
  To do without a King. Batrachian wisdom
  Disdains the rule of fogeydom and quizdom,
  And Frogs as soon would take to bibs and corals,
  As ask a "King who might inspect their morals"
  From Jupiter. Then 'twas Juventus Mundi;
  The true King-maker now is--Mrs. GRUNDY,
  And she insisted that our modern Frogs
  Should have a King--the woodenest of King Logs.
  At first this terrified our Frogs exceedingly,
  And, sometimes passionately, sometimes pleadingly,
      They grumbled and protested;
  But finding soon how placidly Log rested
  Prone in the pool with mighty little motion,
  Of danger they abandoned the wild notion,
  Finding it easy for a Frog to jog
      On with a kind King Log.
  But in the fulness of the time, there came
  A would-be monarch--Legion his fit name;
  A Plebs-appointed Autocrat, Stork-throated,
      Goggle-eyed, Paul-Pry-coated;
  A poking, peering, pompous, petty creature,
  A Bumble-King, with beak for its chief feature.
      This new King Stork,
  With a fierce, fussy appetite for work;
  Not satisfied with fixing like a vice
  Authority on Town and Country Mice,
  Tried to extend his sway to pools and bogs,
      And rule the Frogs!
  But modern Frogdom, which had champions able,
      Had read old-Æsop's fable,
  And of King Stork's appearance far from amorous,
      Croaked forth a chorus clamorous
  Of resonant rebellion. These, upreared
  On angry legs, waved arms that nothing feared;
  King Log defending. Great CRAUGASIDES,
  Among batrachian heroes first with ease,
  With ventriloquial vehemence defied
  The long-beaked base usurper. At his side
  His fond companion, PHYSIGNATHUS swelled
      Cheeks humorously defiant;
          The ruddy giant
  CRAMBOPHAGUS, as tall as is a Tree,
  Flouted King Stork with gestures fierce and free,
  Sleek CALAMINTHIUS, aper deft of eld,
  Against the foe a pungent dart impelled;
          HYDROCHARIS too,
      (Most Terryble to view),
  Fared to the front, whilst smaller, yet as brave
  Tiny batrachian brethren, dusk of hue,
  PRASSOPHAGUS, PRASSOEUS, staunch and true,
      Webbed hands did wildly wave
  With the frog-host against the beaky bird--
  "He be our King?" they loudly cried.
          "Absurd!

  Not Mercury, nor Jupiter we beg
  For a devouring despot, lank of leg,
  Of prying eye, and frog-transfixing beak;
      Though singly we seem weak,
  United we are strong to smite or scoff.
  Off, would-be tyrant, off!!!"

       *       *       *       *       *

CHURCH AND STAGE.--Let no rabid Churchmen, of any school of thought, ever again take exception
to the irreligious character of playhouse entertainments. Let them read the advertisement of
the Lyceum Theatre in The Times for March 13:--"During Holy Week this theatre will be closed,
re-opening on Saturday, March 28, with The Bells, which will also be played on Easter Monday
night." Could any arrangement be more thoroughly in harmony with general ecclesiastical practice?
Any liturgical student knows that the bells are played once on Holy Saturday, and that they
should be played on Easter Monday is a matter of course.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRACKS FOR THE TIMES.

    [A Magistrate has just decided that the Police have a right
    to interfere with the growing practice of using the public
    roads of the Metropolis at night-time as running-grounds for
    athletes.]

  I come from haunts of smoke and grime,
    I start in some blind alley,
  And race each night against Old Time
    Enthusiastically!

  I dodge past frightened City gents,
    And sometimes send them flying,
  Which makes them cherish sentiments
    Not wholly edifying.

  I wind about, and in and out,
    Along the crowded pavement,
  While here and there the mockers flout
    My costume and behavement.

  I slip, I slide, I flash, I flee
    Amid the teeming traffic,
  And drivers often use to me
    Idioms extremely graphic.

  I murmur when a Lawyer's view
    Absurdly tries to hinder
  My turning public roads into
    A private path of cinder.

  Yet still to "spurt," agile, alert,
    Shall be my one endeavour;
  For Cits may stare, and Jehus swear,
    But I run on for ever!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A DIARY OF DOVER.

March, 1891.--Fearful storm in the Channel, when the Victoria is all but lost. Proposals in
all the newspapers for the immediate commencement of an adequate harbour.

April, 1892.--Hurricane in the Channel, when seventeen ships are lost, and the Club Train Boat
(without passengers) is carried, high and dry, as far as Amiens, by the force of the weather.
Renewed suggestions for the immediate building of an adequate harbour.

May, 1893.--Cyclone in the Channel, in which the British Fleet disappears. The newspapers once
more urge the immediate commencement of the proposed adequate harbour.

June, 1894.--Disaster in the Channel. Every single vessel swamped, owing to the terrific weather.
Again the Press invites commencement of an adequate harbour.

July, 1895.--Members of both Houses of Parliament, invited to take part in a State function
at Calais, having been put to considerable inconvenience, immediate orders are given for the
prompt commencement of the much-needed adequate harbour at Dover.

August, 19--.--Proposed adequate harbour having employed the hands, night and day, of thousands
of workmen, at enormous expense (owing to urgent pressure), is at length opened to the public,
amidst universal rejoicing.

ACT I.

    Sitting-room at Rosmershölm, with a stove, flower-stand,
    windows, ancient and modern ancestors, doors, and everything
    handsome about it, REBECCA WEST is sitting knitting a large
    antimacassar which is nearly finished. Now and then she looks
    out of a window, and smiles and nods expectantly to someone
    outside. Madam HELSETH is laying the table for supper.

Rebecca (folding up her work slowly). But tell me precisely, what about this White Horse? [Smiling
quietly.

Madam Helseth. Lord forgive you, Miss!--(fetching cruet-stand, and placing it on table)--but
you're making fun of me!

Rebecca (gravely). No, indeed. Nobody makes fun at Rosmershölm. Mr. ROSMER would not understand
it. (Shutting window.) Ah, here is Rector KROLL. (Opening door.) You will stay to supper, will
you not, Rector, and I will tell them to give us some little extra dish.

Kroll (hanging up his hat in the hall). Many thanks. (Wipes his boots.) May I come in? (Comes
in, puts down his stick, sits down, and looks about him.) And how do you and ROSMER get on
together, eh?

Reb. Ever since your sister, BEATA, went mad and jumped into the mill-race, we have been as
happy as two little birds together. (After a pause, sitting down in arm-chair.) So you don't
really mind my living here all alone with ROSMER? We were afraid you might, perhaps.

Kroll. Why, how on earth--on the contrary, I shouldn't object at all if you--(looks at her
meaningly)--h'm!

Reb. (interrupting, gravely). For shame, Rector; how can you make such jokes!

Kroll (as if surprised). Jokes? We do not joke in these parts--but here is ROSMER.

    [Enter ROSMER, gently and softly.

Rosmer. So, my dear old friend, you have come again, after a year's absence. (Sits down.) We
almost thought that--

Kroll (nods). So Miss WEST was saying--but you are quite mistaken. I merely thought I might
remind you, if I came, of our poor BEATA's suicide, so I kept away. We Norwegians are not without
our simple tact.

Rosmer. It was considerate--but unnecessary. REB--I mean, Miss WEST and I often allude to the
incident, do we not?

Reb. (strikes Tändstickor). Oh, yes, indeed. (Lighting lamp.) Whenever we feel a little more
cheerful than usual.

Kroll. You dear good people! (Wanders up the room.) I came because the Spirit of Revolt has
crept into my School. A Secret Society has existed for weeks in the Lower Third! To-day it
has come to my knowledge that a booby-trap was prepared for me by the hand of my own son, LAURITS,
and I then discovered that a hair has been inserted in my cane by my daughter HILDA! The only
way in which a right-minded Schoolmaster can combat this anarchic and subversive spirit is
to start a newspaper, and I thought that you, as a weak, credulous, inexperienced and impressionable
kind of man, were the very person to be the Editor.

    [REB. laughs softly, as if to herself. ROSMER jumps up and
    sits down again.

Reb. (with a look at Rosmer). Tell him now!

Rosmer (returning the look). I can't--some other evening. Well, perhaps-- (To KROLL.) I can't
be your Editor--because (in a low voice) I--I am on the side of LAURITS and HILDA!

Kroll (looks from one to the other, gloomily). H'm!

Rosmer. Yes. Since we last met, I have changed my views. I am going to create a new democracy,
and awaken it to its true task of making all the people of this country noblemen, by freeing
their wills, and purifying their minds!

Kroll. What do you mean? [Takes up his hat.

Rosmer (bowing his head). I don't quite know, my dear friend; it was REB--I should say. Miss
WEST's scheme.

Kroll. H'm! (A suspicion appears in his face.) Now I begin to believe that what BEATA said
about schemes--no matter. But, under the circumstances, I will not stay to supper.

    [Takes up his stick, and walks out.

Rosmer. I told you he would be annoyed, I shall go to bed now. I don't want any supper. [He
lights a candle, and goes out; presently his footsteps are heard overhead, as he undresses.
REBECCA pulls a bell-rope.

Reb. (to Madam HELSETH, who enters with dishes). No, Mr. ROSMER will not have supper to-night.
(In a lighter tone.) Perhaps he is afraid of the nightmare. There are so many sorts of White
Horses in this world!

Mad. H. (shaking). Lord! lord! that Miss WEST--the things she does say! [REB. goes out through
door, knitting antimacassar thoughtfully, as Curtain falls.

ACT II.

    ROSMER's study. Doors and windows, bookshelves, a
    writing-table. Door, with curtain, leading to ROSMER's
    bedroom. ROSMER discovered in a smoking-jacket cutting
    a pamphlet with a paper-knife. There is a knock at the
    door. ROSMER says, "Come in." REBECCA enters in a morning
    wrapper and curl-papers. She sits on a chair close to ROSMER,
    and looks over his shoulder as he cuts the leaves. Rector
    KROLL is shown up.

Kroll (lays his hat on the table and looks at REB. from head to foot). I am really afraid that
I am in the way.

Reb. (surprised). Because I am in my morning wrapper and curl-papers? You forget that I am
emancipated, Rector KROLL.

    [She leaves them and listens behind curtain in ROSMER's
    bedroom.

Rosmer. Yes, Miss WEST and I have worked our way forward in faithful comradeship.

Kroll (shakes his head at him slowly). So I perceive. Miss WEST is naturally inclined to be
forward. But, I say, really you know-- However, I came to tell you that poor BEATA was not
so mad as she looked, though flowers did bewilder her so. (Taking off his gloves meaningly.)
She jumped into the mill-race because she had an idea that you ought to marry Miss WEST!

Rosmer (jumps half up from his chair). I? Marry--Miss WEST! my good gracious, KROLL! I don't
understand, it is most incomprehensible. (Looks fixedly before him.) How can people-- (looks
at him for a moment, then rises.) Will you get out? (Still quiet and self-restrained.) But
first tell me why you never mentioned this before?

Kroll. Why? Because I thought you were both orthodox, which made all the difference. Now I
know that you side with LAURITS and HILDA, and mean to make the democracy into noblemen, and
accordingly I intend to make it hot for you in my paper. Good morning! [He slams the door with
spite as REBECCA enters from bed-room.

Rosmer (as if surprised). You--in my bedroom! You have been listening, dear? But you are so
emancipated. Ah, well! so our pure and beautiful friendship has been misinterpreted, bespattered!
Just because you wear a morning wrapper, and have lived here alone for a year, people with
coarse souls and ignoble eyes make unpleasant remarks! But what really did drive BEATA mad?
Why did she jump into the mill-race? I'm sure we did everything we could to spare her! I made
it the business of my life to keep her in ignorance of all our interests--didn't I, now?

Reb. You did--but why brood over it? What does it matter? Get on with your great, beautiful
task, dear, (approaching him cautiously from behind), winning over minds and wills, and creating
noblemen, you know--joyful noblemen!

Rosmer (walking about, restlessly, as if in thought). Yes, I know. I have never laughed in
the whole course of my life--we ROSMERS don't--and so I felt that spreading gladness and light,
and making the democracy joyful, was properly my mission. But now--I feel too upset to go on,
REBECCA, unless-- (Shakes his head heavily.) Yes, an idea has just occurred to me--(looks at
her, and then runs his hands through his hair)--oh, my goodness, no--I can't.

    [He leans his elbows on table.

Reb. Be a free man to the full, ROSMER--tell me your idea.

Rosmer (gloomily). I don't know what you'll say to it. It's this. Our platonic comradeship
was all very well while I was peaceful and happy. Now that I'm bothered and badgered, I feel--why,
I can't exactly explain, but I do feel that I must oppose a new and living reality to the gnawing
memories of the past. I should, perhaps, explain that this is equivalent to an Ibsenian proposal.

Reb. (catches at the chairback with joy). How? at last--a rise at last! (Recollects herself.)
But what am I about? Am I not an emancipated enigma? (Puts her hands over her ears as if in
terror.) What are you saying? You mustn't. I can't think what you mean. Go away, do!

Rosmer (softly). Be the new and living reality. It is the only way to put BEATA out of the
Saga. Shall we try it?

Reb. Never! Do not--do not ask me why--for I haven't a notion--but never! (Nods slowly to him
and rises.) White Horses would not induce me! (With her hand on door-handle.) Now you know!
[She goes out.

Rosmer (sits up, stares thunderstruck at the stove, and says to himself). Well--I--am-- [Quick
Curtain.

    [The remaining two Acts of this subtle psychological study
    unavoidably held over.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"KEEP YOUR HARE ON!"

In not following the advice given in the headline to this article, clever Mr. PINERO has made
a mistake. Lady Bountiful with only a very little HARE is a disappointment. The majority of
those who go to "Hare's Theatre" (they don't speak of it as "The Garrick") go to see the Lessee
and Manager in a new part: and they go to see a lot of him: they don't ask merely for a small
piece of HARE, if you please, though they might be satisfied with HARE in a small piece. Everyone
goes expecting to see him in a good part in a good Comedy, his good part being equal to the
better part of the whole entertainment; and if they don't so see him, they are disappointed.
Why was Mr. GRUNDY's happy translation of Les Oiseaux peculiarly successful? because it was
a light, fresh, and pretty piece, wherein the occasional phrase in a minor key was so artistically
introduced as to be a relish to our enjoyment of the humour of the characters and of the situations;
but all this would have gone for comparatively little had it not been for the excellence of
Mr. HARE's rendering of the first-rate part of Goldfinch, which did not consist of occasional
flashes, only to collapse and disappear in the penultimate Act, but continued right through
to the end, dominating everything and everybody. This is not so with Lady Bountiful. The appearance
of Roderick Heron, who is no creation of the Author's, as he admits, but merely Mr. Skimpole
under another name, raises hopes at the commencement, which are blighted long before the finish.
The part gutters out, as does Mr. CHARLES GROVE's John Veale, another "promise of spring."
Young Mr. GILBERT HARE makes a most creditable first appearance as Sir Lucian Brent, Bart.
He is easy and natural.

For the greater part of the educated audience, it might have been more useful if Sir Richard
Philliter, Q.C., had gone about with an old Eton Latin Grammar in his pocket, instead of a
Horace; and if Miss KATE RORKE had divided with him the quotation, "Nemo mortalium omnibus
horis sapit." He, being rejected, might have commenced, "Nemo mortalium," and she might have
continued, "omnibus horis;" then, both together, "sapit." Or when she had snubbed him, he might
have made some telling remark about "Verbum personale," and so forth. The introduction of a
quotation from Horace is likely rather to be resented than appreciated by the victims of a
superior education. What a bad quarter of an hour or so Paterfamilias will have when Materfamilias
asks him for the translation of these lines from Horace! Poor Pater will pretend not to have
"quite caught them;" or "not been attending;" but to himself he will own how entirely he has
forgotten his Latin, and perhaps he will make a good resolution to himself to "look up his
Horace again." Then the learned young lady will be asked by her Mamma, or by her sharp young
bothering sister, "what that Latin means," and though she might be able to construe it when
she sees it, to translate it offhand at one hearing is a difficulty, and she will evade the
question by saying, "Please, don't talk! I want to listen to the piece."

