The simpleton is one who does not like much work. When he also ascribes negligence to his brothers
he betrays to us his own nature, in that his “feather,” i.e., himself, does not go far, while
his brothers’ feathers go some distance. In order to invalidate this view of himself the distribution
of the feathers is put off on chance, as if to a higher determining power. This has always
been a favorite excuse with lazy and inefficient people.

One of the means of consoling himself for the unattainableness of his wishes is the belief
in miracles. (Cf. my work on Phantasy and Mythos.) The simpleton gains his advantage in a miraculous
manner; roasted pigeons fly into his mouth.

In his erotic enterprises he sticks to his own immediate neighborhood. He clearly bears within
himself an Imago that holds him fast. [This is an image, withdrawn from consciousness and consequently
indestructible, of the object of one’s earliest passion, which continues to operate as a strongly
affective complex, and takes hold upon life with a formative effect. The most powerful Imagos
are those of the parents. Here naturally the mother imago comes to view, which later takes
a position in the center of the love life (namely the choice of object).] Whither does he turn
for his journey of conquest? Into the earth. The earth is the mother as a familiar symbol language
teaches us. Trap door, box, subterranean holes, suggest a womb phantasy. The toad frequently
appears with the significance of the uterus, harmonizing with the situation that the tale presents.
(On the contrary frog is usually penis.) The toad’s big box (= mother) is also the womb. From
it indeed the female symbols, in this connection, sisters, are produced for the simpleton.
The box is, however, also the domestic cupboard,—food closet, parcel, bandbox, chamber, bowl,
etc.,—from which the good mother hands out tasty gifts, toys, etc. Just as the father in childish
phantasy can do anything, so the mother has a box out of which she takes all kinds of good
gifts for the children. Down among the toads an ideal family episode is enacted. The mother’s
inexhaustible box (with the double meaning) even delivers the desired woman for the simpleton.

The woman—for whom? Doubtless for the simpleton, psychologically. The tale says for the king,
because the female symbols, carpet, ring, the king desires for himself, in so many words, and
the inference is that the woman also belongs to him. The conclusion of the tale, however, turns
out true to the psychological situation, as it does away with the king and lets the simpleton
live on, apparently with the same woman. It is clear as day that the simpleton identifies himself
with his father, places himself in his place. The image, which possesses him from the first
is the father’s woman, the mother. And the father’s death—that is considerately ignored—which
brings queen and crown, is a wish of the simpleton. So again we find ourselves at the center
of the Œdipus complex. As mother-substitute figures the sister, one of the little toads.

We have regarded the story first from the point of view of the inefficiency of the hero, and
have thereupon stumbled upon erotic relations, finally upon the Œdipus complex. The psychological
connection results from the fact that those images on which the Œdipus complex is constructed
appear calculated to produce an inefficiency in the erotic life.

The anagogic interpretation of Hitchcock (l. c., pp. 175 ff.) is as follows, though somewhat
abridged:

The king plainly means man. He has three sons; he is an image of the Trinity, which in the
sense of our presentation we shall think of as body, soul and spirit. Two of the sons were
wise in the worldly sense, but the third, who represents spirit and in the primitive form,
is called conscience, is simple in order to typify the straight and narrow path of truth. The
spirit leads in sacred silence those who meekly follow it and dies in a mystical sense if it
is denied, or else appears in other forms in order to pursue the soul with the ghosts of murdered
virtues. Man is, as it were, in doubt concerning the principle to which the highest leadership
in life is due. “Go forth and whoever brings me the finest carpet shall be king after my death.”
The carpet is something on which one walks or stands, here representing the best way of life
according to Isaiah XXX, 21. Two of them move at once in opposite directions [towards the east
and towards the west, as many writers on alchemy represent the two principles or breaths, anima
and corpus or [Symbol: Gold] and [Symbol: Silver]] and so come even at the outset away from
the right path. The third, symbol of the spirit, flies straight forward and has not far to
its end, for simple is the way to the inner life. Simpleton is troubled in his heart and in
the humility of this affliction he discovers “all at once” a secret door, which shows him the
entrance into the mystical life. The door is on the surface of the earth, in abasement, as
the third feather determined it in advance. As Simpleton discreetly obeyed it, he strolled
along the path that the door opened for him. Three steps, three fundamental forces. So Christ
had to descend before he could rise. The hero of the story knocks as Christ knocks in the gospel
(i.e., on the inner door, contrasted with the law of Moses, the outer door). The big toad with
her little ones in a circle about her signifies the great mother nature and her creatures,
which surround her in a circle; in a circle, for nature always returns upon herself in a cycle.
Simpleton gets the most beautiful carpet.

The other two beings that we call understanding and feelings (sun and moon of the hermetic
writings) look without, instead of seeking the way within; so it comes to pass that they take
the first best coarse cloths.

To bring the most beautiful ring is to bring truth, which like a ring has neither beginning
nor end. Understanding and feeling go in different directions, the simpleton waits meekly by
the door that leads to the interior of the great mother. [The appearance of this conception
in the anagogic interpretation is also important.]

In the third test, the search for “the fairest woman,” the crown of life, conceived exoterically
as well as esoterically, the carrot represents the vegetative life (body, the natural man),
and the six mice that draw it are our old friends the six swans or virtues, and the highest
of these compassion—or love—goes as the enthroned queen in the carriage. The uninitiated man
is almost in doubt and asks, “What shall I do with a carrot?” Yet the great mother replies,
as it were, “Take one of my fundamental forces.” And what do we see then? The toad becomes
a beautiful maiden, etc. The man now all at once realizes how fearfully and wonderfully he
is made. Filled with reverence of himself he is ready to cry, “Not my will but thine be done.”

Still another test remains. We must all go through a sort of mystical ring, which hangs in
the hall (of learning). Only one in the whole universe is in a condition to accomplish it,
to endure it without injury. The beautiful delicate maid with the miraculous gift is the spirit
[spiritus or [Symbol: Mercury] of alchemy].

We shall add that the two interpretations externally contradict each other, although each exhibits
a faultless finality. I should note that I have limited myself to the briefest exposition;
in a further working out of the analysis the two expositions can be much more closely identified
with the motives of the story.

First, then, the question arises, how one and the same series of images can harmonize several
mutually exclusive interpretations (problem of multiple interpretation); yet we have discovered
in the parable three practically equivalent schemes of interpretation, the psychoanalytic,
the chemical (scientific), and the anagogic. Secondly, the question presents itself more particularly
how can two so antithetic meanings as the psychoanalytic and the anagogic exist side by side.

The multiple interpretation of works of fantasy has become our problem, and the diametrical
opposition of the psychoanalytic and the anagogic interpretation has particularly struck us.
The question now apparently becomes more complicated if I show that the psychoanalytic interpretation
contains an analogue that we must take into consideration. The analogue is presented by the
remarkable coexistence of symbolism of material and functional categories in the same work
of imagination. In order to make myself intelligible, I must first of all explain what these
categories are.

In division 2 of the introductory part we have seen that the imagination shows a predilection
for symbolic forms of expression, proportionately greater indeed, the more dreamlike it is.
Now by this symbolism as we observe most clearly in hypnagogic (half dreaming) hallucinations
and in dreams, three different groups of objects are represented.

I. Thought contents, imagination contents, in brief, the contents or objects of thinking and
imagining, the material of thought whether it be conscious or unconscious.

II. The condition, activity, structure of the psyche, the way and manner that it functions
and feels, the method of functioning of the psyche, whether it be conscious or unconscious.

III. Somatic processes (bodily stimulations). This third sort of objects is closely coördinated
with the other two. It is not capable of interesting us in the present connection so we pass it by.

Therefore we arrive at two categories in which we can enroll all symbolizing works of the imagination,
the material and the functional.

I. The material category is characterized by its representation of thought contents, i.e.,
of contents that are worked out in a train of thoughts (arranged thought, imagined), whether
they are mere images or groups of images, concepts that are somewhat drawn out into comparisons
and definition processes, or indeed judgments, trains of reasoning, which serve as analytic
or synthetic operations, etc. Since, as we know, the phantasies (dreams, reveries, even poems)
are mostly inspired by wishes, it will prove frequently the case that the contents symbolically
contained in them are wish images, i.e., the imagined experiencing of gratification.

II. The functional category is characterized by the fact that the condition, structure or capacity
for work of the individual consciousness (or the psychic apparatus) is itself portrayed. It
is termed functional because it has nothing to do with the material or the contents of the
act of thinking, but applies merely to manner and method in which consciousness functions (rapid,
slow, easy, hard, obstructed, careless, joyful, forced; fruitless, successful; disunited, split
into complexes, united, interchangeable, troubled, etc.). [It is immaterial whether these are
conscious or unconscious. Thinking must be taken here in the widest possible sense. It means
here all psychic processes that can have anything as an “object.”]

Two typical examples will enable us at once clearly to understand the two categories and keep
them separate.

A. Material Symbolism.—Conditions. In a drowsy state I reflect upon the nature of the judgments
that are transsubjectively (= for all men) valid. All at once the thread of the abstract thought
is broken and autosymbolically in the place of it is presented the following hypnagogic hallucination:

Symbol. An enormous circle, or transparent sphere, floats in the air and men are putting their
heads into this circle.

Interpretation. In this symbol everything that I was thinking of is expressed. The validity
of the transsubjective concerns all men without exception; the circle goes through all the
heads. This validity must have its cause in something common to all. The heads all belong to
the same apparently homogeneous sphere. Not all judgments are transsubjective; with their bodies
and limbs men are outside of and under the sphere and stand on the earth as separate individuals.

B. Functional Symbolism.—Conditions. Dreamy state as above. I reflect upon something or other,
and yet in allowing myself to stray into bypaths of thought, I am diverted from my peculiar
theme. When I want to get back the autosymbolic phenomenon appears.

Symbol. I am climbing mountains. The nearer mountains shut out my view of the more distant
ones, from which I have come and to which I should like to return.

Meaning. I have got off the track. I have ventured too high and the ideas that I have entertained
shut out my starting point like the mountains.

To the material category belongs, for example, the meaning of the strawberry dream explained
in the second part of the introductory chapter. Strawberry picking is a symbol for an imaged
wish gratification (sexual intercourse), and so for an image content. The symbolism is therefore
a material one. The greatly preponderating part of psychoanalytic dream literature is occupied
with interpretation according to material categories.

To the functional categories belong, for example, the symbolism of falling asleep and waking
up, which I have mentioned in the second part in connection with the interpretation of the parable.

The two categories of symbolism, if they never did anything but parallel each other, would
afford us no analogues for our problem of double meaning. Now the cases, however, are extremely
rare where there is only functional or only material symbolism; the rule is an intimate interweaving
of both. To be sure, one is frequently more emphasized than the other or more easily accessible,
but we can generally find cases where long contexts of images are susceptible of material as
well as functional interpretation, alike in detail and continuity of connection.

The following may serve as a very simple case in point. Lying one evening in bed and exhausted
and about to fall asleep, I devoted my thoughts to the laborious progress of the human spirit
in the dim transcendant province of the mothers-problem. (Faust, Part II.) More and more sleepy
and ever less able to retain my thoughts, I saw suddenly with the vividness of an illusion
a dream image. I stood on a lonely stone pier extending far into a dark sea. The waters of
the sea blended at the horizon with an equally dark-toned mysterious, heavy air. The overpowering
force of this tangible picture aroused me from my half sleeping state, and I at once recognized
that the image, so nearly an hallucination, was but a visibly symbolic embodiment of my thought
content that had been allowed to lapse as a result of my fatigue. The symbol is easily recognized
as such. The extension into the dark sea corresponds to the pushing on into a dark problem.
The blending of atmosphere and water, the imperceptible gradation from one to the other means
that with the “mothers” (as Mephistopheles pictures it) all times and places are fused, that
there we have no boundaries between a “here” and a “there,” an “above” and a “below,” and for
this reason Mephistopheles can say to Faust on his departure,

    “Plunge then.—I could as well say soar.”

We see therefore between the visualized image and the thought content, which is, as it were,
represented by it, a number of relations. The whole image resolves itself insofar as it has
characteristic features, almost entirely into such elements as are most closely related to
the thought content. Apart from these connections of the material category, the image represents
also my momentary psychic condition (transition to sleep). Whoever is going to sleep is, as
it were, in the mental state of sinking into a dark sea. (The sinking into water or darkness,
entrance into a forest, etc., are frequently-occurring threshold symbols.) The clearness of
ideas vanishes there and everything melts together just as did the water and the atmosphere
in the image.

This example is but to illustrate; it is in itself much too slight and simple to make any striking
revelation of the remarkable interlacing of the two kinds of symbolism. I refer to my studies
on symbolism and on dreams in the bibliography. Exhaustive treatment at this point would lead
us too far afield. Let us rest satisfied then with the facts that the psychoanalysts simultaneously
deal with two fundamentally different lines of interpretation in a product of the phantasy
(dream, etc.), quite apart from the multiple determinants which they can find within the material
as well as in the functional categories; both lines of interpretation are supplied by the same
fabric of images, indeed often by the same elements of this image fabric. This context therefore
must have been sought out artfully enough by the creative unconscious to answer the double
requirement.

The coexistence of the material meaning with the functional is not entirely puzzling to the
student of psychoanalysis. Two facts must be kept in mind throughout.

In the first place, we are acquainted with the principle of multiple determination or condensation.
The multiplicity of the dimly moving latent dream thoughts condenses into a few clear dream
forms or symbols, so that one symbol continually, as it were, appears as the representative
of several ideas, and is therefore interpretable in several ways. That it should be susceptible
of more than one interpretation can cause no surprise because the fundamental significance
(the latent thoughts) were the very ones that, by association, caused the selection of the
symbols from an infinite series of possibilities. In the shaping of the dream, and therefore
in the unconscious dream work, only such pictorial elements could penetrate into consciousness
as satisfied the requirements of the multiple determination. The principle of multiple determination
is valid not only within the material and the functional categories, but makes the fusion of
both in the symbol in question to some extent intelligible. Elements of both categories take
an active part in the choice of the symbol. On the one hand, a number of affects press on towards
the symbolic representation of objects to which they direct themselves (objects of love, hate,
etc.). On the other hand, the psyche takes cognizance of its own impulses, play of affects,
etc., and this perception will gain representation. Both impulses take part in the choice of
those symbols which thrust themselves into the nascent consciousness of phantasy, and so the
dream, like the poem, etc., besides the symbolism of the wish tendencies (material categories)
that animate them, bears the stamp of the psychic authorship (functional category) of the dreamer
or the author. [Ferenczi defends the view for the myth also that the material symbolism must
coincide with the functional (Imago I, p. 283).]

Secondly, it has been shown in recent times in psychoanalytic studies that symbols which were
originally material pass over to functional use. If we thoroughly analyze for a sufficient
time the dreams of a person we shall find that certain symbols which at first probably appeared
only incidentally to signify some idea content, wish content, etc., return and become a persistent
or typical form. And the more such a typical form is established and is impressed, the farther
it is removed from its first ephemeral meaning, and the more it becomes a symbolic representative
of a whole group of similar experiences, a spiritual capital, so to speak, till finally we
can regard it simply as the representative of a spiritual current (love, hate, tendency to
frivolity, to cruelty, to anxiety, etc.). What has been accomplished there is a transition
from the material to the functional on the path of a determination inward or intro-determination
(verinnerlichung) as I shall call it. Later I shall have more to say about intro-determination.
For the present this may suffice for the understanding, that the material and the functional
symbolism, in spite of their at first apparently fundamental difference, are essentially related
in some way, which is illuminated by the process of intro-determination.

The analogue of the problem of multiple interpretation unfolded in the preceding section is
shown to be a question that can be easily answered. And we would bring our problem to a generally
satisfactory position if we succeeded in showing that the anagogic interpretation, whose alignment
with the psychoanalytic seemed so impracticable, is a form of functional interpretation, or
at least related to it. In this case it would be at once comprehensible how a product of the
imagination harmonizes with several expositions (problem of multiple interpretation); because
this variety of sense had already operated in the selection of the symbol and indeed, in those
cases as well where we did not at first sight suspect the coöperation of the anagogic thoughts;
secondly, the anagogic and the psychoanalytic interpretations are somehow reconciled to each
other, whereby possibly also the position of the natural science interpretation can be made
somewhat clearer.

The possibility that the anagogic has some part in the creation of the functional, will be
brought nearer by the fact that our previously offered anagogic expositions (fairy tales, parabola)
markedly resemble functional interpretations. In the tale of the six swans Hitchcock explains
the reception of the maiden into the castle as the reception of sin into the heart; the seven
children are the seven virtues (consequently spiritual tendencies). The small maiden is conscience,
the tissues are processes of thought. In the story of the three feathers, again, one son is
conscience; the secret door is the entrance to the inner life, to spiritual absorption, the
three feathers are spiritual tendencies, etc. In the dream of the “flying post” conscience
appears as the conductor. The “Mills of God,” which psychologically also represents conscience,
the more strikingly because the burden of sin, guilty feeling, drives them, also appear in
the parable. The lion or the dragon which must be overcome on the mystic path is again a spiritual
force. The approximation to the functional category is not to be denied. Processes that show
an interplay of spiritual powers are symbolically represented there. But we are at once struck
with a difference. The true functional phenomenon, as I have so far described it, pictures
the actual psychic state or process; the anagogic image appears on the contrary to point to
a state or process that is to be experienced in the future. We shall pass over for a time the
last topic, which will not, however, be forgotten, and turn to the question as to the point
on which the anagogic and the functional interpretations can best be brought together. This
point appears to me to be introversion, first because it is related to the previously mentioned
intro-determination, and second, because it is familiar to psychoanalysis and is of great importance
in anagogic method.

The term “introversion” comes from C. G. Jung. It means sinking into one’s own soul; the withdrawal
of interest from the outer world; the seeking for joys that can be afforded by the inner world.
The psychology of the neuroses has led to the concept of introversion, a province, therefore,
which principally treats of morbid forms and functions of introversion. The sinking of oneself
into one’s own soul also appears exactly as a morbid losing of oneself in it. We can speak
of introversion neuroses. Jung regards dementia precox as an introversion neurosis. Freud,
who has adopted the concept of introversion [with some restrictions] regards the introversion
of the libido as a regular and necessary precondition of every psychoneurosis. Jung (Jb. ps.
F., III, p. 159) speaks of “certain mental disturbances [he means dementia precox] which are
induced by the fact that the patients retire more and more from reality, sink into their phantasy,
whereby in proportion as reality loses its force, the inner world takes on a reality and determining
power.” We may also define introversion as a resignation of the joys of the outer world (probably
unattainable or become troubled) and a seeking for the libido sources in one’s own ego. So
we see how generally self-chastisement, introversion and autoerotism are connected.

The turning away from the outer world and turning in to the inner, is required by all those
methods which lead to intensive exercise of religion and a mystic life. The experts in mysteries
provide for opportunities that should encourage introversion. Cloisters and churches are institutions
of introversion. The symbolism of religious doctrine and rite is full of images of introversion,
which is, in short, one of the most important presuppositions of mysticism.

Religious and mythical symbolism has countless images for introversion; e.g., dying, going
down, subterranean crypts, vaults, dark temples, into the underworld, hell, the sea, etc.;
being swallowed by a monster or a fish (as Jonah), stay in the wilderness, etc. The symbols
for introversion correspond in large part with those that I have described for going to sleep
and waking (threshold symbolism), a fact that can be readily appreciated from their actual
similarity. The descent of Faust to the mothers is an introversion symbol. Introversion fulfills
here clearly the aim of bringing to reality, i.e., to psychological reality, something that
is attainable only by phantasy (world of the past, Helen).

In Jacob Boehme (De Vita Mentali) the disciple says to the master, “How may I attain suprasensuous
life, so that I may see God and hear him speak?” The master says, “When you can lift yourself
for one moment into that realm where no creature dwelleth, you will hear what God speaks.”
The disciple says, “Is that near or far?” The master says, “It is in yourself.”

The hermetics often urge retirement, prayer and meditation, as prerequisites for the work;
it is treated of still more in the hieroglyphic pictures themselves. The picture of death is
already familiar to us from the hermetic writings, but in the technical language there are
still other expressions for introversion, e.g., the shutting up in the receptacle, the solution
in the mercury of the sages, the return of the substance to its radical condition (by means
of the "radical" or root dampness).

Similar features in our parable are the wandering in the dense forest, the stay in the lion’s
den, the going through the dark passage into the garden, the being shut up in the prison or,
in the language of alchemy, the receptacle.

