Edmund did not look puzzled; he was deciding no knotty question at this moment. Nor did he
look simply unhappy: she knew his expression when in sorrow and when in physical pain or mere
disgust. He looked intensely preoccupied and very firm. Perhaps, she fancied, he too had a
deep sense of that passing of life, of something akin in the swift movement of the water passing
the yacht and the swift movement of life passing by the individual man. Was he, perhaps, feeling
how life was going for him and for Rose, and by the simple fact of its passing on while they
were standing passive their lives would be fixed apart?--passing, apart from what might have
been of joy, of peace, of company along the road? There are moments when, even without the
stimulus of passion, human beings have a sort of guess at the possibilities of helping one
another, of giving strength, and gaining sweetness, that are slipping by. There are many degrees
of regret, between that of ships that pass in the night, and that of those who have voyaged
long together. There are passages of pleasure sympathy, and passages of sympathy in fight,
and passages of mutual succour, and passages of intercourse when incapacity to help has in
itself revealed the intensity of good-will in the watcher. But whenever the heart has been
fuller than its words, and the will has been deeper than its actions, there is this beauty
of regret. There has been a wealth of love greater than could be given or received--not the
love of passion, but the love of the little children of the human race for one another. This
regret is too grave to belong to comedy, and too happy to belong to tragedy. Rose's heart was
full with this sorrow, if it be a real sorrow. These are the sorrows of hearts that are too
great for the occasions of life, whereas the pain is far more common of the hearts that are
not big enough for what life gives them of opportunity.

Rose was oppressed by feelings she could not analyse, a sense of possibilities of what might
have been after these perfect weeks together. But her feelings were dreamy; she had no sense
of concrete alternative; she did not now--he had been too skilful--expect Edmund to ask her,
nor did she wish him to ask her, to draw quite close to him. She only felt at the end of this
interlude they had spent together a suspicion of the infinite reach of the soul, and the soul
not rebelling against its bonds, but conscious of them while awaiting freedom.

     "Only I discern infinite passion and the pain
     Of finite hearts that yearn."

Such were the moments when a man might be pardoned if he called Rose's beauty angelic--angelic
of the type of Perugino's pictured angels, a figure just treading on the earth enough to keep
up appearances, but whose very skirts float buoyantly in the fresh atmosphere of eternity.
They stood a few paces apart, Rose with her look bent vaguely towards the shore, Edmund, still
reading his letters, apparently unaware of her presence. He was thus able to take a long exposure
sun-picture of the white figure on a sensitive memory that would prove but too retentive of
the impression.

But he had to speak at last. "Is it you?"

Edmund thought he spoke as usual, but there was a depth of pain and of tenderness revealed
in the face that usually betrayed so little. He held out his hand unconsciously and then drew
it back half closed, and looked again at the flowing water. It was a moment of temptation,
when love was fighting against itself. Then, with the same half movement of the hand towards her:

"I have had a bolt from the blue, Rose. That man, Hewitt, whom I trusted as I would myself,
has absconded. It is thought he has been playing wildly with my money, and that this crisis
in South America has been the last blow. I shan't know yet if I am ruined completely or not."

"Oh, Edmund, how dreadful!"

"Don't pity me, dear, it's not worth while. It only means that one of the unemployed will get
to work at last. That is, if he can find a job. But I must hurry home at once and leave you
to follow. If I put back into Genoa now I can leave by the night express. And you and your
mother had better go on to Marseilles in the yacht after you have dropped me."

CHAPTER XXII

SOMETHING LIKE EVIDENCE

Mr. Murray Junior's step sounded heavy, and his head was a little more bent than usual, as
he passed down the passage into his sanctum. The snow, turning to rain and then reasserting
itself and insisting that it would be snow, was dreary enough already when the fog set in firmly
and without compromise. There was a good fire in the sanctum; the electric light was on, and
the clean sheet of blotting-paper, fresh every morning, lay on the table.

But Mr. Murray, Junior, was struggling for a few moments to realize where he was, for his mind
was in such different surroundings. In his thoughts it was June--not June sweltering in London,
but June gone mad with roses in a tiny Surrey garden; and with true realism his memory chose
just one rose-tree out of them all, which best implied the glory of the others. And one branch
of this tree was bent down by a girl's hand; her arm, from which a cotton sleeve had fallen
back, was wonderfully white, and the roses wonderfully red.

And the office boy, slowly pulling off one damp, well-made boot and then the other over the
gouty toes, was the only person who noticed that "the governor" was awfully down in the mouth.

But no one knew that in Mr. Murray Junior's pocket was a letter from a great specialist, who
had seen Mr. Murray Junior's wife the day before,--and what that letter said has nothing to
do with this story.

Sir Edmund called about mid-day, and noticed nothing unusual in the heavy face; only it struck
him that Murray was looking old, and he wondered on which side of seventy the lawyer might be.

Grosse's visit was the first real distraction the older man had that day. It was impossible
for the solicitor not to be interested in the probability that Edmund Grosse had lost a great
fortune. The affair teemed with professional interest, and then he liked the man himself. He
had a taste for the type, for the man who knows how to cut a figure in the great world without
being vulgar or ostentatious. He liked Edmund's manner, his tact, his gift for putting people
at their ease. Rumour said that the baronet had shown pluck since the news had come, and had
behaved handsomely to underlings. Most men become agitated, irritable, and even cruel when
driven into such a position.

It never entered into Murray's imagination to appear to know that Edmund had any cause for
care: he was not his solicitor, and he knew that his visitor had not come about his own affairs.
But he could not conceal an added degree of respect, and liking even, under the impenetrable
manner which hid his own aching sense of close personal suffering. Grosse answered the firm
hand-grip with a kindly smile.

"I only heard of Madame Danterre's death when I got to Genoa on our return journey."

"And she died just before you left London," said Murray.

"Yes; I must have overlooked the paper in which it was announced, although I thought I read
up all arrears of news whenever we went into port. I wonder no one mentioned it in Cairo; there
were several people there who seemed posted up in Lady Rose's affairs. What do you know about
Madame Danterre's will?"

"Very little but rumour; nothing is published. Miss Dexter was too ill to attend to business
until about two weeks ago; she only saw her lawyer at the end of January. Anyhow, Madame Danterre
having died abroad makes delays in this sort of business. But I have been wanting to see you,"
he said.

Something in his manner made Grosse ask him if he had news.

"Nothing very definite, but things are moving in your direction; and something small, but solid,
is the fact that old Akers's son, and the other private, Stock, who witnessed some deed or
other for Sir David, are coming home. The regiment is on its way back in the Jumna."

Edmund, watching the strong, heavy face, could see that this interested him less than something
else as yet unexpressed.

Murray leant back in the round office chair, and crossed his legs in the well of the massive
table before him. Edmund bent forward, his face sunburnt and healthy after the weeks on the
yacht, but the eyes seemed tired.

"I don't know that it comes to much," Murray went on slowly, "but three days after Madame Danterre's
death a foreigner asked to see me who refused to give his name to my clerk. I had him shown
in, and thought him a superior man--not, perhaps, a gentleman, but a man with brains. He asked
in rather queer English whether I would object to giving him all the information I could, without
betraying confidence, as to Sir David Bright and his wife. I thought for a moment that he was
your Florentine detective, but then I reflected that the detective would have no object in
disguising himself from me as he knew that you trusted me entirely. I told my visitor that
he might ask me any questions he liked, and I can assure you he placed his shots with great
skill. He wanted first to know if there had been any scandal connected with their married life,
in order, of course, to find out why Sir David had not left his money to Lady Rose; and whether
no one had been disposed to dispute the will. I let him see that the affair had been a nine
days' wonder here, and I gave him some notion of my own opinion of Madame Danterre. He did
not give himself away, and I thought he had some honest reason for anxiety in the matter. Well!
he left without letting me know his name or address, but there is no doubt that he is Dr. Larrone.
I wrote at once to your detective, Pietrino, in Florence, and a letter from him crossed mine
saying that Dr. Larrone had left Florence within a few hours of Madame Danterre's death, and
that, by her desire, he had taken a small box to Miss Dexter. There was evidently a certain
sense of mystery and excitement among the nurses and servants as to the box and the sudden
journey. It seems that Madame Larrone was angry at his taking this sudden journey, and said
to a friend that she only 'hoped he wouldn't get his fingers burnt by meddling in other people's
affairs.'

"Then Pietrino, in answering my letter, said that my description was certainly the description
of Larrone. He says the doctor is exceedingly upright and sensitive as to his professional
honour, and has been known to refuse a legacy from a patient because he thought it ought not
to have been left out of the family. Since that, Pietrino has written that Larrone is taking
a long holiday, and that people are wondering if he will have any scruples as to the large
legacy that is said to have been left to him by Madame Danterre. So it is pretty clear who
my reticent visitor was. Now, I don't know that we gain much from that so far, but I think
it may mean that Larrone could, if he would, tell some interesting details. I will give you
all Pietrino's letters, but I should just like to run on with my own impressions from them
first. It seems that, since Madame Danterre's death, there has been a good deal of wild talk
against her in Florence, which was kept down by self-interest as long as she was living and
an excellent paying-machine. You will see, when you read the gossip, that very little is to
the point. But, on the other hand, Pietrino has valuable information from one of the nurses.
She is a young woman who is disappointed, as she has had no legacy; evidently Madame Danterre
intended to add her name in the last codicil, but somehow failed to do so. This woman is sure
that Madame Danterre had an evil conscience as to her wealth. She also said that she was always
morbidly anxious as to a small box. Once, when the nurse had reassured her by showing her the
box, which was kept in a little bureau by the bed, she said, with an odd smile: 'If I believed
in the devil I should be very glad that I can pay him back all he lent me when I don't want
it any more.' At another time she asked for the box and took out some papers, and told the
nurse to light a candle close to her as she was going to burn some old letters. Then she began
to read a long, long letter, and as she read, she became more and more angry until she had
a sudden attack of the heart. The nurse swept the papers into the box and locked it up, knowing
that she could do nothing to soothe the patient while they were lying about. That night the
doctors thought Madame Danterre would die, but she rallied. She did not speak of the papers
again until some days later. The nurse described how, one evening, when she thought her sleeping,
she was surprised to find her great eyes fixed on the candle in a sconce near the bed. 'The
candle was burnt half way down, but the paper was not burnt at all,' the nurse heard her whisper;
'I shall not do it now. I cannot be expected to settle such questions while I am ill. After
all, I have always given her a full share; she can destroy it herself if she likes, or she
can give it all up to that woman--it shall be her own affair.'

"She did not seem to know that she had been speaking aloud, and she muttered a little more
to herself and then slept.

"The nurse heard no further allusion to the box for weeks. She said the old woman was using
all her fine vitality and her iron will in fighting death. Then came the last change, and her
torpid calm turned into violent excitement. While she thought herself alone with Dr. Larrone
she implored him to take the box to England the moment she died, and put it into her daughter's
hands. 'No one knows it matters,' she said more than once. But when she found that he did not
wish to go, and said it was impossible for him to go at once, her entreaties were terrible.
'She had always had her own way, and she had it to the end,' was the nurse's comment.

"Dr Larrone, coming out of the room, realised that the nurse must have known what passed, and
told her he was glad she was there. He put a box on a table with a little bang of impatience.

"'It's delirium, delusion, madness!' he said, 'but I've given my word. I never hated a job
more; she wouldn't have the morphia till I had taken my oath I would go as soon as she was dead.'"

Grosse was absorbed by the pictures feebly conveyed through the nurse's words, through the
detective's letters, through the English lawyer's translation and summary. He could supply
what was missing. He had seen Madame Danterre. He could so well imagine the frightful force
of the woman, a tyrant to the very last moment. He could guess, too, at the reaction of those
about her when once she was dead, and they were quite out of her reach. There is always a reaction
when feebler personalities have to fill the space left by a tyrant. He could realise the buzz
of gossip, and the sense of courage with which servants and tradesmen would make wild, impossible
stories of her wicked life. He came back from these thoughts with a certain shock when he found
Murray saying:

"I can't say there is anything approaching to proof. But supposing, just for the sake of supposing,
that you were right in your wild guess as to the will, then we should next go on to suppose
that the real will was in the box conveyed by Dr. Larrone to Miss Dexter."

Edmund's face was very dark, but he did not speak for some moments.

"No," he said, "she is incapable of such a crime. She would have given it up at once."

"At once?" Murray said. "Miss Dexter was too ill to do anything at once. She was down with
influenza, of which she very nearly died, but she pulled through, and then went away for a
month. She only got back to London two weeks ago. Her affairs are in the hands of a very respectable
firm. We know them, and they began this business with her a very short time before she came
up. Now Sir Edmund, think it well over. You may be right in your opinion of this young lady,
but just fancy the position. There is a fortune of at least £20,000 a year on the one hand,
and on the other, absolute poverty. For do you suppose that, if it were in the last will which
Akers and Stock witnessed on board ship, and there were any provision in it for Madame Danterre,
Sir David Bright would have left capital absolutely in her possession? No: the probability
is--I am, of course, always supposing your original notion to be true--that the girl has this
choice of immense wealth practically unquestioned by the world which has settled down to the
fact that Sir David left his money to Madame Danterre; or, on the other hand, extreme poverty
(she inherited some £2,000 from her father) and public disgrace. Mind you, she would have to
announce that her mother was a criminal, and she would, in this just and high-minded world
of ours, pass under a cloud herself. A few, only a very few, would in the least appreciate
her conduct."

Sir Edmund was miserably uncomfortable, intensely averse to the results of what he had done.
In drawing his mesh of righteous intrigue round the mother he had never realised this situation.
For the moment he wished himself well out of it all.

"There is one other point," he said. "Are we quite sure that Dr. Larrone did not know what
was in the box? Is it not just possible that something was taken out of it before it was given
to Miss Dexter? He must have known there was a large legacy to himself; it was against his
interests that Madame Danterre's will should be set aside. Also, it would not be a very comfortable
situation for him if it turned out that he had been the intimate friend and highly-paid physician
of a criminal."

"That last motive fits the character of the man, according to Pietrino, better than the first,"
said Mr. Murray. "Well, we must see; we must wait and see whether he accepts his legacy. But
before that must come the publication of Madame Danterre's will."

Edmund drove back from the city absorbed in the thought of Molly, in comparing his different
impressions of her at different stages of their acquaintance. He had spoken so firmly and undoubtingly
to Murray. His first thought had been one of simple indignation, and yet--But no! he remembered
her simplicity in speaking of her mother's letter; he could see her now with the gentle, pathetic
look on her face as she told him of her offering to go out to the wicked old woman, and how
her poor little advance had been rejected.

Edmund had thought it one of the advantages of the expedition on the yacht that it would make
it impossible for many weeks to call again at Molly's flat. He had often before felt uncomfortable
and annoyed with himself when he had been too friendly with Molly. Not that he felt her attraction
to be a temptation to disloyalty to Rose. He knew he was incurable in his devotion to his love.
But he did feel it mean to enjoy this pleasant, philosopher-and-guide attitude, towards the
daughter of Madame Danterre. That Molly could hold any delusion about his feelings had never
dawned on his imagination as a possibility until the night when she confided in him her forlorn
attempt at doing a daughter's duty. He had never liked her so well; never so entirely dissociated
her from her mother, and from all possibilities of evil.

And now the situation was changed; now there was this hazy mass of suspicion revealed in Florence,
and this most detestable story of Larrone and the box.

How differently things looked when it was a question of suspecting of a crime the woman he
had seen in the Florentine garden, and of that same suspicion regarding poor little graceful,
original, Molly Dexter!

Within two or three days Edmund became still more immersed in business. He began to realise
his own ignorance as to his own affairs, and he went through the slow torture of understanding
how blindly he had left everything in his solicitor's hands. He was beginning to face actual
poverty as inevitable, when he heard from Mr. Murray that Madame Danterre's will was proved
in London, and that her daughter was her sole heir.

"The income cannot be less than £20,000 a year, and the whole fortune is entirely at Miss Dexter's
disposal," wrote Mr. Murray without any comment whatever.

Edmund was not sorry that Rose and her mother were staying on in Paris. They would escape the
first outburst of gossip as to the further history of Sir David Bright's fortune. Nor was he
sorry that they should also miss the growing rumours as to the disappearance of the fortune
of Sir Edmund Grosse. Of Rose herself he dared not let himself think; but every evil conclusion
which he had to face as to his own future, every undoubted loss that was discovered in the
inquiry which was being carried on, seemed as a heavy door shut between him and the hopes of
those last days on the yacht.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE USES OF DELIRIUM

"Don't you think I might get up and sit by the window and look at the sea, Carey?"

Miss Carew hesitated, and then summoned the nurse.

"Miss Dexter was to have one whole day in bed after the journey."

The nurse, looking into Molly's eager eyes, compromised for one half hour, in which Miss Dexter
might lie on the sofa in a fur cloak.

It was a big sofa befitting the largest bedroom in the hotel, and Molly lay back on its cushions
with the peculiar physical satisfaction of weakness, resting after very slight efforts. Yesterday
she had been too exhausted for enjoyment, but this afternoon her sensations were delightful.

The short afternoon light was ruddy on the glorious brown sails of the fishing-boats, and drew
out all their magnificent contrast to the blue water. But the sun still sparkled garishly on
the crest of the waves, and the milder glow of the sunset had not begun.

Weakness was sheltered and at rest within, while without was the immense movement of wind and
water, and the passing smile of the sun on the great, unshackled forces of winter. Molly's
rest was like a child's security in the arms of a kindly giant. Her mind had been absorbed
by illness--an illness that had had her completely in grip, the first serious illness she had
ever known. There had been a struggle in the depths of her life's forces such as she had never
imagined; but now life had conquered, and she was at rest. In that time there had been awful
delirium: horrible things, guilty and hideous, had clung about her, all round her. One wicked
presence especially had taken a strange form, a face without a body, and yet it had hands--it
must have had hands because the horror of it was that it constantly opened the doors of the
different cupboards, but most often the door of the big wardrobe, and looked out, and that
although Molly had had the wardrobe locked and the key put under her pillow. And this face
was very like Molly's, and the question she had to settle was whether this face was her mother's
or her own. At times she reasoned--and the logical process was so deadly tiring--that it must
be her mother, for she could not be Molly herself being so unkind to herself; whereas, if the
face had had any pity for her it might have been herself looking at herself. But was that not
nonsense? There was surely a touch of hysteria in that. Did the face really come out of her
own brain? And if so, from what part of her brain? She felt sure there was a sort of empty
attic, a large one, in the top part of her right brain, it felt hollow, quite terribly hollow.
Probably the face came out of that. But then, how did it get inside the wardrobe? and once
inside the wardrobe, how did it get out again when Molly really had the key?

She longed to speak to Miss Carew about this, but Miss Carew never could follow a chain of
reasoning. The nurse was more sensible, but she thought that reasoning was too tiring for Molly--so
silly! If only she could be allowed to explain it all quietly and reasonably! And oh! why did
they leave her alone? She hated to be left alone, and she was sure she told them so; and yet
they went away. And then she began to work her brain again as soon as the was alone, and she
would be happy for a few minutes with a new plan for shutting the face into the large empty
attic in her right brain and locking the door, when quite suddenly the face opened the door
of the wardrobe with its loose hands and looked out again and jeered at her.

Even now, lying resting, and looking at the sun, Molly was glad that there was no hanging wardrobe
in the room; only one full of shelves. She would certainly not use the same room when she went
back to London. She would only be in that flat for a short time, as she must now take a big house.

As her eyes rested on the sails and the water, and were filled with the joy of colour, she
had a sort of delicious idea of her new house. It should be very beautiful, most exquisite,
quite unlike anybody else's house; it should be Molly's own special triumph. It must have the
glamour of an old London house, its dignity, its sense of a past. It should have for decoration
gloriously subdued gilding and colour, and old pictures, which Molly could afford to buy.

"And"--she smiled to herself--"as long as it is a house in the air it shall have a great outlook
on the sea and the sunset." The fancy that had been so cruel in her sickness was a sycophant
now that life was victorious; it flattered and caressed and soothed her now.

Within a few days two theories were growing in the background of her consciousness, not acknowledged
or questioned while they took possession. They took turns to make themselves gradually, very
gradually, and imperceptibly familiar to her. The first was founded on the idea that she had
been very ill a little sooner than was supposed, and that she had imagined a great deal that
was torturing and absurd as to her mother's papers. She had been delirious that evening, and,
what was still more important, she was actually very hazy now as to what she had seen and read
of the contents of that box.

"I can't remember if that's true," she could honestly say to herself when some fact of the
horrible story came forward and claimed attention. Once she caught herself thinking how very
common it was for people to forget entirely what had happened just before or during an illness.
For instance, Sir David Bright had never been able to remember what happened on the day on
which Madame Danterre declared he had married her. But how did Molly know that? And suddenly
she said to herself that she could not remember; perhaps she had fancied that, too.

At another time she began almost to think that she had imagined the black box altogether. Was
it square or oblong? and how shallow was it? Sometimes while she was ill she had seen a black
box as big as a house; sometimes it was a little tiny cash box.

Meanwhile, under cover of so many uncertainties, the other theory was getting a firm footing.
It was simply that the fact of the will being sent to her mother was undoubted proof of Sir
David's having repented of having made it. If Sir David had not sent her this will, who had?
It was absurd and romantic to suppose that her mother had carried on an intrigue in South Africa
in order to get possession of this will. That might have done in a chapter of Dumas, or have
been imagined in delirium, but it was not possible in real life. The only puzzle was--and the
theory must be able to meet all the facts of the case--why had he not destroyed the will himself?
The probability was that he had not been able to do so at the last moment. When dying he must
have repented of the last will just too late to destroy it. She could quite imagine his asking
a friend, almost with his last words, to send Madame Danterre the papers. It would look more
natural than his asking the friend to destroy them. And then the officer would have addressed
the papers, of course not reading them. And thus the theory comfortably wrapped up another
fact, namely, that the registered envelope had not been addressed by the hand that had written
its contents. Finally, all that the theory did for the will, it did also for the letter to
Rose, for the two things evidently stood or fell together. So the theories grew and prospered
without interfering with each other as Molly's health and strength returned, except that the
delirium theory insisted at times on the other theory being purely hypothetical; as, for instance,
it had to be "Even supposing I was not delirious, and the will had been there, it is still
evident that----"

Molly's recovery did not get on without a drawback, and the day on which the lawyer came down
to see her she was genuinely very unwell. She seemed hardly able to understand business. She
was ready to leave all responsibility to him in a way that certainly saved much trouble, but
he hardly liked to see her quite so passive.

After he left, Miss Carew found her looking faint and ill.

"He must think me a fool," she said, in a weak voice. "I have left everything on his shoulders,
poor man. I'm afraid if he is asked about me, as he's a Scotchman he will say I am 'just an
innocent'! I really ought not to have seen him to-day."

But in a few days she was better, and the house agent found her quite business-like. The said
house agent had come down with one secret object in his heart. It was now nine months since
the bankruptcy of a too well-known nobleman had thrown a splendid old house on the market.
It had been in the hands of all the chief agents in London, and they had hardly had a bite
for it. Even millionaires were shy of it so far, the fact being that the house was more beautiful
than comfortable, the bedrooms having been thought of less importance than the effectiveness
of the first floor. Then, perhaps, it was a little gloomy, though artists maintained that its
share of gloom only enhanced its charm.

After mentioning several uninteresting mansions, the agent observed that, of course, there
was Westmoreland House still going, and Molly's eyes flashed. She had been at the great sale
at Westmoreland House; she had been absolutely fascinated by the great well staircase and by
the music-room, by the square reception-rooms, and above all by the gallery with its perfection
of light moulding, a room of glass and gold, but so spiritualised, so subdued and reticent
and dignified, that ghosts might live there undisturbed.

Molly trembled with eagerness as she asked the vital questions of cost, of repairs, of rates
and taxes. Yes, it was possible--undoubtedly possible. There was a very large sum of money
in a bank in Florence which possibly Madame Danterre had accumulated there with a view to a
sudden emergency. Molly's lawyer had not been certain of the amount, but he had mentioned a
sum larger than the price of Westmoreland House.

By the time Molly was fit to go back to London, and while the theories just described were
still in possession of her mind, Westmoreland House was bought. Molly said it was a great relief
to get it settled.

"One feels more settled altogether," she said to Miss Carew, "when a big question like that
is done with."

