The negotiations at the Hague were carried on by Sir George Downing, who without being a leading
statesman, or wielding any considerable authority in England, yet managed to exert no little
influence upon the course of affairs at a very critical juncture. His career had been a strange
one. He was of obscure birth, but had managed to ingratiate himself with the Protector, and
was employed in various capacities--ranging, it would appear, from chaplain to scout-master--in
the Scottish army. In 1656, he appeared in Cromwell's Parliament, as member for Haddington,
and secured for himself a plurality of offices, which combined a tellership of the Exchequer,
with the captaincy of a troop of horse. The time was favourable for the adventurer whose advance
was delayed by no scruples of conscience, and no deficiency of self-assurance; and Downing
increased his importance by a marriage with the sister of Howard, first Earl of Carlisle. We
next find him resident at the Hague, as Cromwell's representative, and exerting himself, with
obtrusive zeal, in urging the exclusion from Dutch territory of the exiled King and his Court.
But Downing was one of those who readily, and with no troublesome qualms of conscience or of
honour, accommodate themselves to changes of political circumstances. He was astute enough
to foresee the coming Restoration, and easily secured the confidence and gratitude of Charles
by betraying the secrets of those whose agent he was. He rendered a useful service in betraying
to Charles's advisers the double-dealing of Sir Richard Willis, the Royalist who stooped to
be spy for Cromwell, and compounded with his conscience by taking care that his betrayals should
be accompanied by warnings which enabled those whose movements he betrayed, to provide for
their own safety. Downing carefully copied the manoeuvres he exposed, and was dexterous enough
to arrange that he should continue, by an easy transference of allegiance, to act at the Hague
for Charles, in the same capacity as he had acted for Cromwell, He had gained experience which
was eminently useful; and he was soon ready to show the same relentless skill in tracing the
hiding places of fugitive rebels, as he had lately shown in harassing the exiled Royalists.
He was a man of unquestionable ability, of dauntless audacity, and restless activity; but he
moved the hatred and contempt alike of Royalist and rebel, for his arrogance, his brazen insolence,
and his cynical lack of conscience. Clarendon had now to use him as agent in a series of complicated
diplomatic transactions. To his perspicacity, promptness, and determination, the Chancellor
might trust. But again and again, in his correspondence, Clarendon has to urge caution, to
rebuke Downing's arrogance, and to expostulate with him for an attitude deliberately provocative,
and neglectful of the plainest instructions inculcating prudence and reserve. Clarendon was
to have his instinctive dislike of the man aggravated by many future provocations in other
fields. At this time, he found him the most dangerous of agents in a negotiation of the utmost
delicacy--one impatient of control, impetuous in temper, reckless by his greed of self-glorification,
and too intent upon achieving a diplomatic triumph, to pay any attention to the risks of premature
hostilities. Downing was determined to prevent the concession of any substantial advantages
to the Dutch by means of the Portuguese treaty, and did not hesitate to assert that any such
concession would be treated by the King of England as a breach of the engagement between Portugal
and himself. Clarendon was not prepared to assume such an attitude. An open breach between
Portugal and the United Provinces would undoubtedly have involved England in war.

"You must set all your wits on work to prevent this war, which will produce a thousand mischiefs,
"wrote Clarendon to Downing; [Footnote: Letter of November 22nd, 1661.] "the Dutch will undergo
their full share of them; nor can any good Dutchman desire that Portugal should be so distressed
as to fall again into the hands of the Spaniards."

Clarendon, of course, was alive to the disadvantages of a grant by Portugal to the Dutch of
privileges of trade equal to those possessed by England. But if Portugal agreed to indemnify
England for any loss of exclusive privilege, then, in God's name, let them sign what treaty
they pleased. Anything rather than be plunged in a war to which the resources of the nation
were not equal, and which would inflict a far more crushing blow upon those commercial interests
in defence of which it would be waged, than could be involved in any unduly generous treaty
concessions to a rival. The treaty was ratified, and for the moment the breach between the
United Provinces and Portugal was avoided.

Other grounds of quarrel soon supervened. Charles had strongly espoused the interests of his
sister's child, the young Prince of Orange, whose exclusion, through the instrumentality of
De Witt, from the office of Stadtholder, which had been held by his father, was keenly resented
by the English King. Downing was instructed to support the Prince's claim, and was ready, with
his usual headstrong pugnacity, to make it an essential condition of any treaty that these
should be conceded. "The Dutch would not hazard their trade," he wrote, "upon such a point."
But he failed to notice that the point involved the influence of De Witt, the most powerful
man in Holland. Once again Clarendon had to moderate the impetuosity of his representative:
we could make no such stipulation. "Upon what grounds, I pray," wrote Clarendon to Downing,
"can the King, in renewing a league with the States-General, demand that they should choose
a general of his recommendation?" It would be time enough to intervene when we had established
peace. Then, and then only, could we think of fighting against the intrigues of De Witt with
any prospect of success.

Clarendon knew well that nothing would suit the plans of Louis XIV. so entirely as an internecine
war between England and the Dutch. Nor was this the sole danger to be feared from engaging
in hostilities. It was only by a peace with Holland, that the fear of new dissensions at home
could be allayed.

"There is nothing," writes Clarendon to Downing, in August, 1661, "the seditious and discontented
people here do so much fear as a peace with Holland, from the contrary to which they promise
themselves infinite advantages." "If this peace can be handsomely made up, and speedily, great
conveniences will arise from it; and we may, after two or three years' settling at home, be
in the better position to do what we find fit."

For the present, the aim of Clarendon's policy was to restore the position to what it had been
under Cromwell. If the conditions essential for the free expansion of English trade were secured,
the more distant quarrels between the different trading companies in the East Indies and Africa
might be matter for subsequent argument, and the dynastic claims of the House of Orange might
be postponed to a more convenient season. With these clear aims before him, it was not found
impossible by Clarendon to arrange a treaty between England and the United Provinces, which
was signed at Westminster, in September, 1662. Each was to aid the other against rebels, and
neither was to harbour fugitive rebels from the other Power. The naval supremacy of England
was to be acknowledged by the lowering of the flag by Dutch vessels. The island of Polerone
in the Malay Archipelago--an old subject of contention--was to be restored by Holland. There
was to be full freedom of trade between the two Powers. The quarrels of the independent trading
companies of each Power in Africa and the East Indies were not to involve war, but were to
form subject of arbitration, and equitable settlement after a due interval. No dispute was
to be revived which dated earlier than 1654, and later claims which were still outstanding
were to be settled by Commissioners appointed by the two Powers. This last article alone was
soon found to involve grounds of dissension far-reaching enough to have broken up the peace,
even had no other irritating causes supervened.

But all other causes of hostility were of comparatively small importance compared with the
essential and insuperable rivalry in colonial trade. It was in these new and expanding markets
that the question of European commercial supremacy must be fought out. The command of them
was of absolutely vital importance in the inevitable struggle for existence between the two
nations. They were chiefly in the hands of great and independent companies working under the
protection of either Power. These companies were careless of international rights; zealous
only to secure their own commercial monopoly, and certain of being backed up by all the resources
of their own State. In England there were three of these great companies--the Turkey Company,
the East India Company, and the Royal African Company. Each could rely upon powerful political
support, and their ambitions were supported by the solid mass of England's commercial class.
Early in the session, which began in March, 1664, the grievances from which English commerce
suffered under the overweening insolence and repeated aggressions of the Dutch, were laid before
Parliament. Heavy losses were alleged to have been suffered, and the dangers of the total decay
of the trade were forcibly foretold. Parliament was not slow to take the alarm. Both Houses
concurred in the resolution--

"That the wrongs, dishonours, and indignities done to his Majesty by the subjects of the United
Provinces, by invading of his rights in India, Africa, and elsewhere, and the damages, affronts,
and injuries done by them to our merchants, are the greatest obstruction of our foreign trade;"

and they prayed that speedy and effectual means should be taken for obtaining redress, and
for preventing such injuries in future. It was clear that the national temper had been thoroughly
aroused, and would insist on asserting itself. Clarendon's influence is seen in the moderation
of Charles's reply. He approved their zeal and promised inquiry, but went no further than to
undertake that his Minister should demand reparation, and take steps for the prevention of
such wrongs in future.

The bellicose attitude of Parliament had given much alarm to the Dutch.

"The resolution of the two Houses of Parliament," writes Downing to Clarendon, [Footnote: Letter
of April 29th, 1664.] "is altogether beyond their expectation, and puts them to their wits'
end." "Believe me," he goes on, "at the bottom of their hearts, they are sensible of the weight
of a war with his Majesty."

The moderation of the King's reply served to allay the Dutchmen's fears of the imminence of
war; but De Witt found it prudent to promise that he would do his utmost to meet the English
demands. He expressed to Downing "with great appearing joy," his satisfaction with the King's
reply; and said that "since his Majesty had so tenderly declared himself, he would upon that
account condescend so much the more to give him satisfaction." Downing doubtless thought that
the demand went unduly far in the direction of moderation. But if he had any fears that pacific
motives would prevail, he was soon to be undeceived. For the moment war seemed to be averted.
Louis XIV.--however he might wish to see the naval Powers exhaust themselves by mutual injuries--had
no wish to see the outbreak of a war in which the Treaty rights of the Dutch warranted them
in calling for his assistance, and he offered himself as a mediator. But both the disputants
were drifting rapidly to the arbitrament of arms.

Downing had a powerful ally for his own warlike inclinations in the Duke of York. James was
restless when deprived of opportunity of adding to his influence, and satisfying his chief
ambition, by engaging in some warlike operation. He had already acquired some reputation, not
without warrant, as a capable naval commander, and as a man of personal courage. He had little
opportunity of political action in England, and a war with the Dutch not only promised vengeance
for old grudges against the nation, but offered a good chance of winning new renown. He had
other less creditable motives. He had taken an active part in the management of some of the
great trading companies, and was deeply interested in various colonial enterprises. In March,
1664, James obtained a grant of Long Island on the American coast--a territory nominally belonging
to the English, but now, in default of their colonizing it, occupied by the Dutch, who had
built a town called New Amsterdam. With the help of two ships of war, lent him by the Crown,
the Duke organized an expedition to seize the island. The scanty Dutch colony could offer no
effective resistance. Their town was ceded to the emissaries of the Duke, who changed its name
to one destined to hold a large space in the history of the world. New Amsterdam became New
York, as the result of a buccaneering raid, carried out by some three hundred men, hired by
the Duke of York to prosecute a private proprietorial claim.

The Duke was also Governor of the African Trading Company, and this again brought him into
even more serious conflict with the Dutch. That company had established its operations upon
the Guinea coast before the Civil War, and had carried on a successful trade, which had been
grievously interrupted by the troubles at home. The Dutch had, meanwhile, established a rival
factory, and prosecuted their trade with such success as seriously to cripple that of England.
After the Restoration, the company was re- organized, and the Duke being persuaded to become
Governor, a Royal Charter was easily obtained. Those who knew the region were convinced of
its promise; and high profits were confidently expected by bartering English goods against
the gold and the slaves, of which the supply was so rich. The gold was brought in sufficient
quantities to give the name of "Guineas" to a new designation in the English coinage; and the
slaves were easily disposed of at a high price to other plantations in various parts of the
globe. The only inconvenience arose from the hindrance which the Dutch could offer to English
trade, by means of their own superior trade organization, and the more suitable situation of
their factory.

Once more the difficulty in the way of the Duke and his Company was settled by an armed raid.
Exactly as in the case of New York, he "borrowed" two ships of war from the King, and sent
an expedition under the command of Sir Robert Holmes, which, by a flagrant violation of every
international right, seized the Dutch fort. The balance of wrong was thus roughly reversed.
By an act of unwarrantable violence the Duke of York had fixed upon his own nation the burden
of maintaining what amounted to piratical aggression; and he had done it--as Clarendon is obliged
to allow--"without any authority, and without a shadow of justice," [Footnote: Letter to Downing,
October 28th, 1664.]--solely in satisfaction of his own private rights as a company promoter.
Clarendon's diplomacy was, of a truth, conducted under untoward circumstances! Between the
filibustering of his royal son-in-law, and the deliberate exasperation of his accredited representative
at the Hague, peace had become well-nigh hopeless. Under such conditions negotiations became
tangled beyond the possibility of repair. De Witt recognized that no reparation for the wrong
done at Cape Verde would be secured except by armed force. But in carrying out this purpose
he still endeavoured to avoid any declaration of war. De Ruyter and the English Admiral Lawson
were now cruising in the Mediterranean, on a joint expedition, for suppression of piracy, and
for releasing the captives of Tunis and Algiers. De Ruyter secretly separated himself from
his English ally, sailed for Cape Verde, and there took vengeance for the English aggression
on the trading operations of the Dutch. It was an open breach of the stipulation of the Treaty,
which required that reparation for colonial wrongs should be sought by peaceable arbitration.
Clarendon had recognized fully that such reparation was due, and had instructed Downing to
offer it. The elusive tactics of De Witt, and the armed intervention of De Ruyter, frustrated
Clarendon's efforts for a peaceful settlement.

Already Clarendon's pronounced inclination for peace had earned for him the ill-will which
the Duke of York's habitual sulkiness of temper was so apt to indulge. The King had given their
due weight to the arguments of the Chancellor, and felt the danger which war would involve
at once to his own authority at home, and to the position of England in Europe. This he had
impressed upon his brother; and James rightly ascribed the King's backwardness to Clarendon,
and found a convenient medium of remonstrance in his wife, whom he instructed to explain to
her father the Duke's annoyance at finding him his chief opponent "in an affair upon which
he knew his heart was so much set." [Footnote: Life, ii. 240.] It was characteristic of James
that he should deal with a matter of vital interest to the kingdom, as if it was the fitting
subject of petty personal pique. Anne undertook the duty, and begged her father no longer to
oppose the Duke. Clarendon told her that she "did not enough understand the importance of that
affair;" but he would speak to the Duke about it. At their interview, James renewed his tone
of personal annoyance, urged the expediency of the war, and above all complained that, as "he
was engaged to pursue it," Clarendon should allow the world to see "how little credit he had
with him."

Clarendon's reply was as dignified as it was candid. "He had no apprehension that any sober
man in England, or his highness himself, should believe that he could fail in his duty to him,
or that he would omit any opportunity to make it manifest, which he could never do without
being a fool or a madman." But on the other hand he would never give advice, nor consent to
anything, which his judgment and his conscience told him would be mischievous to the Crown
and to the Kingdom, "though his royal highness, or the King himself, were inclined to it."
From the first, the King, he told the Duke, had been "averse from any thought of this war;"
but he did not deny that he had done all in his power to confirm the King in that opinion.
A few too complacent friends, he told the Duke, might for the moment concur in his view; reflection
would soon change their minds. "A few merchants, nor all the merchants in London, were not
the city of London, which had had war enough, and could only become rich by peace." The hopes
of a liberal grant from Parliament were delusions. He was old enough to remember what had been
the fate of James I., who had been tempted "to enter into a war with Spain, upon promise of
ample supplies; and yet when he was engaged in it, they gave him no more supply, so that at
last the Crown was compelled to accept of a peace not very honourable;" and, Clarendon might
have added, to begin that long struggle over supply which had led to the Rebellion.

Clarendon's plain speaking did not end here. The Duke plumed himself upon his military prowess,
and was eager for the war because of the laurels which he believed it had in store for him.
With a better appreciation of his son-in-law's abilities, Clarendon begged him to reflect "upon
the want of able men to conduct the counsels upon which such a war must be carried on." For
a time it had seemed as if the Duke were ready to listen to reason, and there had been less
talk of war; but the recent aggressions on both sides had dispelled such hopes. De Ruyter had
inflicted heavy injury on the English merchants on the African Coast. This was answered by
an attack by Prince Rupert's fleet upon the Dutch merchantmen in the Channel. War had virtually
begun, in spite of all the Chancellor's counsels of prudence, and all his warnings of the imminent
danger. Specious proposals for a settlement were now too late.

"Though I am very glad," wrote Clarendon to Downing, [Footnote: Letter of October 28th, 1664.]
"to find any temperate and sober considerations, which dispose that people to peace, I wish
they had entertained it sooner, for I scarce see time left for such a disquisition as is necessary.
They have too insolently provoked the King to such an expense, that fighting is thought the
better husbandry."

It was now needful to apply to Parliament, which met on November 24th. Clarendon was again
prostrated by a severe attack of gout, and could not himself appear in Parliament; but a narrative
in writing, which was to be the basis for asking for a liberal grant, was laid before the House.
The treachery of the Dutch and their open aggressions were exposed; and as the King was thus
"forced to put himself in the posture he is now in for the defence of his subjects at so vast
an expense," he trusted that Parliament "would cheerfully enable him to prosecute the war with
the same vigour he hath prepared for it, by giving him supplies proportionate to the charge
thereof."

Those very men, such as Bennet and Coventry, who had chiefly urged the war, were now backward
in risking their popularity by asking for an adequate grant. It was left to Clarendon and Southampton
to urge that the amount to be asked for should be commensurate with the vastness of the undertaking,
and that the resolution of the King and his subjects, to carry out the great task to which
they had applied themselves, should be proved to the world by an abundant supply. This they
could not reckon at less than two millions and a half. It was an unprecedented charge, and
must necessarily strain the relations between the Crown and the Parliament, and stimulate that
very discontent which Clarendon knew to be slumbering and ready to break out.

When Parliament came to consider the matter, there was no apparent lack of zeal, but there
was, amongst the crowd of private members, no one ready to name a sum. The Chancellor and the
Treasurer had prepared for this, by consultations with two or three members of established
reputation and of weight in the House and the country; and after an ominous pause, Sir Robert
Paston, one of these members, proposed that "the present supply ought to be such as might as
well terrify the enemy as assist the King, and that it should therefore be two millions and
a half." "The silence of the House," Clarendon proceeds in his narrative, "was not broken."
Some one, "who was believed to wish well to the King"--with that sort of well- wishing which
characterized the time-serving of Bennet and his confederates--moved that the grant should
be much smaller. But those who had been prepared by Clarendon manfully backed the suggestion
of Sir Robert Paston; and it was carried by a majority of 172 to 102 in the grudging silence
of those who dreaded lest such a grant might secure Clarendon against the odium of repeated
applications to the generosity of Parliament. The very men who had secretly opposed it, were
not ashamed now, in view of this lavish grant, to stimulate the King to a new warlike zeal,
and to confirm the hostile inclinations of the nation at large.

"There appeared," says Clarendon, "great joy and exaltation of spirit upon this vote, and not
more in the Court than upon the exchange, the merchants being unskilfully inclined to that
war, above what their true interest could invite them to, as in a short time afterwards they
had cause to confess." [Footnote: Life, ii. 311.]

Clarendon's prophetic fears were not diminished as time went on. He knew well how quickly such
warlike zeal as now prevailed would spend itself, when the burdens of war were felt, and when
the interference with commerce made those burdens all the harder. He had good reason to know
the corruption that prevailed in the dockyards, and how soon money would melt away in the hands
of those who took care that all warlike preparations should yield an abundant harvest of illegal
gain to those engaged in them. But the die was now cast, and on February 22nd, 1665, war was
declared. Never was hazard run with more reckless thoughtlessness, and with less of a spirit
of stern resolution, and of that mood that could brace the nation to such work. The Chancellor
knew well that he had lost the confidence of the King, and he was under no delusion as to what
loss of confidence involved with one so selfish and so unprincipled as Charles. Never had the
Court stood so low in the estimation of all that was soundest in the nation. Clarendon's own
words bear the impress of his misgivings.

"All serious and prudent men took it as an ill presage, that whilst all warlike preparations
were made in abundance suitable to the occasion, there should be so little preparation of spirit
for a war against an enemy, who might possibly be without some of our virtues, but assuredly
was without any of our vices." [Footnote: Life, ii. 352.]

It is hard to estimate the burden of bitter disappointment that is compressed into these words.

At the Admiralty, and in the dockyards, there was activity enough. There was one, the candid
pages of whose secret diary have given us a faithful picture of the business, and who was no
insignificant part of the administrative machine. Month by month Pepys was earning more of
his own genial self-approbation by acquiring new consideration, and by his growing mastery
of Admiralty business. Month by month he found his little store waxing larger, by gains more
or less legitimate, and his official importance enhanced by devices which were not always very
high-principled. But the English fleet would have been far better equipped than it was, had
those in higher places shown half the energy of Samuel Pepys, had their peculations been kept
within his limits, had their stratagems been controlled even by his occasional respect for
principle, and had their characters been tainted by no more than his fantastic vanity, and
his schoolboy debauchery. Day by day, with all his uncontrolled propensity for carouses, with
all his lively taste for gossip, with all his gallantries and all his petty selfishness, Pepys
shows us how manfully he struggled to make his work efficient, how often he strove successfully
against profusion, and peculation, and hopeless mismanagement, and how he managed to steer
his way safely amidst the jealousies, and corruptions, and gross jobberies of those under whom
he served. There is something dramatic in comparing the record of his struggle with details
that Pepys has left us, with the picture of hopeless corruption which revealed itself to Clarendon,
standing at the other end of the official ladder. Under the patronage of the Duke, there was
a little knot of men, who regarded the Admiralty chiefly as a field where they could reap a
rich harvest of illegal gains. Coventry had now established for himself a control over all
appointments. His agent was Sir William Penn, who had failed to rise to Cromwell's standard
of efficiency, and had found himself discarded, and a prisoner in the Tower, after his defeat
at St. Domingo, but who had managed to creep back into employment by cultivating the new powers.
These two carried on a shameless, although well-recognized, sale of offices, and disarmed all
criticism that might be dangerous by sharing their ill-gotten booty amongst a wide circle of
confederates, of whom that model of chivalry, Sir Charles Berkeley, was one of the chief.

"This was the best husbandry he (Coventry) could have used; for by this means all men's mouths
were stopped, and all clamour secured; whilst the lesser sums for a multitude of officers of
all kinds were reserved to himself, which, in the estimation of those who were at no great
distance, amounted to a very great sum, and more than any officer under the King could possibly
get by all the perquisites of his office in many years." [Footnote: Life, ii. 330.]

Thefts and embezzlements became almost acknowledged practices, and as each ship returned, its
equipments were shamelessly sold by the Admiralty representatives, and the proceeds divided
amongst the officers.

"When this was discovered (as many times it was) and the criminal person apprehended, it was
alleged by him as excuse 'that he had paid so dear for his place, that he could not maintain
himself and his family, without practising such shifts;' and none of these fellows were ever
brought to exemplary justice, and most of them were restored to their employments." [Footnote:
Life, ii. 329.]

We have the picture painted from below and from above; and as we look on it, the wonder is,
not that the pressure of the war was great, and its successes meagre, but rather that disasters
did not crowd upon us more thickly. The conduct of the war does not, of course, belong to the
life of Clarendon. [Footnote: "They who contrived the war had the entire conducting of it,
and were the sole causes of all the ill effects of it" (Life, ii. 325).] We have hitherto seen
only his efforts to stay its outbreak, and the despairing thoughts, which the prospect of the
danger, and the recklessness with which it was met, provoked in him. It was part of his business
to try to organize some sort of alliances abroad, which might counteract the influence of De
Witt. Denmark and Sweden had every reason to oppose the growing commercial power of the Dutch,
and to help in any scheme for checking it. But they were divided by mutual jealousies, and
their alliance could hardly be gained jointly for the English Crown. Henry Coventry, whose
talents and character Clarendon esteemed very differently from those of his brother Sir William,
was envoy to Sweden, and managed to secure at least temporary neutrality from that Power, as
did Sir Gilbert Talbot from Denmark. But time soon showed that any hope of effective alliance
was vain. The warlike Bishop of Munster did, indeed, find it convenient to avenge his own wrongs
by attacking the United Provinces, and by acting in conjunction with England. But such an ally
was not a source of much strength, and it might well be doubted whether his co-operation was
worth the very considerable subsidy which he demanded, of two hundred and fifty thousand pounds.
In truth, it soon became evident enough that England must rely upon herself alone, and that
a still greater danger lurked in the background, in the doubtful neutrality, and very probable
hostility, of France. Amidst this gathering cloud of unfriendliness, a new source of enmity
was started by the extensive resort to privateering on the part of England, the danger of which
Clarendon fully perceived. He had no words too strong to condemn this practice.

