At Ramah I had purchased some dried caplin for dog food for the night. The caplin is a small
fish, about the size of a smelt or a little larger, and is caught in the  neighborhood of Hamilton
Inlet and south.  They are brought north by the missionaries to use for dog food when traveling
in the winter, as they are more easily packed on the komatik than seal meat.  The Eskimos are
exceedingly fond of these dried fish, and they appealed to our men as too great a delicacy
to waste upon the dogs.  Therefore when feeding time came, seal blubber, of which there was
an abundant supply in the igloo, fell to the lot of the animals, while our drivers and hosts
appropriated the caplin to themselves.  The bag of fish was placed in the center, with a dish
of raw seal fat alongside, with the men, women and children surrounding it, and they were still
banqueting upon the fish and fat when I, weary with traveling, fell asleep in my bag.

It was not yet dark the next evening when we came in sight of the Eskimo village at the Hebron
mission, and the whole population of one hundred and eighty people and two hundred dogs, the
former shouting, the latter howling, turned out to greet us.  Several of the young men, fleeter
of foot than the others, ran out on the ice, and when they had come near enough to see who
we were, turned and ran back again ahead of our dogs, shouting "Kablunot!  Kablunot!" (outlanders),
and so, in the midst of pandemonium, we drew into the station, and received from the missionaries
a most cordial welcome.

Here I was fortunate in securing for the next eighty miles of our journey an Eskimo with an
exceptionally fine team of fourteen dogs. This new driver--Cornelius was his name--made my
heart glad by consenting to travel without an attendant.  I was pleased at this be- cause experience
had taught me that each additional man meant just so much slower progress.

No time was lost at Hebron, for the weather was fine, and early morning found us on our way.
At Napartok we reached the "first wood," and the sight of a grove of green spruce tops above
the snow seemed almost like a glimpse of home.

It was dreary, tiresome work, this daily plodding southward over the endless snow, sometimes
upon the wide ice field, sometimes crossing necks of land with tedious ascents and dangerous
descents of hills, making no halt while daylight lasted, save to clear the dogs' entangled
traces and snatch a piece of hard-tack for a cheerless luncheon.

Okak, two days' travel south of Hebron, with a population of three hundred and twenty-nine,
is the largest Eskimo village in Labrador and an important station of the Moravian missionaries.
Besides the chapel, living apartments and store of the mission a neat, well- organized little
hospital has just been opened by them and placed in charge of Dr. S. Hutton, an English physician.
Young, capable and with every prospect of success at home, he and his charming wife have resigned
all to come to the dreary Labrador and give their lives and efforts to the uplifting of this
bit of benighted humanity.

We were entertained by the doctor and Mrs. Hutton and found them most delightful people.  The
only other member of the hospital corps was Miss S. Francis, a young woman who has prepared
herself as a trained nurse to give her life to the service.  I had an opportunity to visit
with Dr. Hutton several of the Eskimo dwellings, and was struck by their cleanliness and the
great advance toward civilization these people have made over their northern kinsmen.  We had
now reached a section where timber grows, and some of the houses were quite pretentious for
the frontier--well furnished, of two or three rooms, and far superior to many of the homes
of the outer coast breeds to the south.  This, of course, is the visible result of the century
of Moravian labors.  Here I engaged, with the aid of the missionaries, Paulus Avalar and Boas
Anton with twelve dogs to go with us to Nain, and after one day at Okak our march was resumed.

It is a hundred miles from Okak to Nain and on the way the Kiglapait Mountain must be crossed,
as the Atlantic ice outside is liable to be shattered at any time should an easterly gale blow,
and there is no possible retreat and no opportunity to escape should one be caught upon it
at such a time, as perpendicular cliffs rise sheer from the sea ice here.

We had not reached the summit of the Kiglapait when night drove us into camp in a snow igloo.
The Eskimos here are losing the art of snow-house building, and this one was very poorly constructed,
and, with a temperature of thirty or forty degrees below zero, very cold and uncomfortable.

When we turned into our sleeping bags Paulus, who could talk a few words of English, remarked
to me: "Clouds say big snow maybe.  Here very bad.  No dog feed.  We go early," and pointing
to my watch face indicated that we should start at midnight.  At eleven o'clock I heard him
and Boas get up and go out.  Half an hour later they came back with a kettle of hot tea and
we had breakfast.  Then the two Eskimos, by candlelight read aloud in their language a form
of worship and sang a hymn.  All along the coast between Hebron and Makkovik I found morning
and evening worship and grace before and after meals a regular institution with the Eskimos,
whose religious training is carefully looked after by the Moravians.

By midnight our komatik was packed.  "Ooisht! ooisht!" started the dogs forward as the first
feathery flakes of the threatened storm fell lazily down.  Not a breath of wind was stirring
and no sound broke the ominous silence of the night save the crunch of our feet on the snow
and the voice of the driver urging on the dogs.

Boas went ahead, leading the team on the trail.  Presently he halted and shouted back that
he could not make out the landmarks in the now thickening snow.  Then we circled about until
an old track was found and went on again.  Time and again this maneuver was repeated.  The
snow now began to fall heavily and the wind rose.

No further sign of the track could be discovered and short halts were made while Paulus examined
my compass to get his bearings.

Finally the summit of the Kiglapait was reached, and the descent was more rapid.  At one place
on a sharp down grade the dogs started on a run and we jumped upon the komatik to ride.  Moving
at a rapid pace the team, dimly visible ahead, suddenly disappeared.  Paulus rolled off the
komatik to avoid going over the ledge ahead, but the rest of us had no time to jump, and a
moment later the bottom fell out of our track and we felt ourselves dropping through space.
It was a fall of only fifteen feet, but in the night it seemed a hundred.  Fortunately we landed
on soft snow and no harm was done, but we had a good shaking up.

The storm grew in force with the coming of daylight.  Forging on through the driving snow we
reached the ocean ice early in the forenoon and at four o'clock in the afternoon the shelter
of an Eskimo hut.

The storm was so severe the next morning our Eskimos said to venture out in it would probably
mean to get lost, but before noon the wind so far abated that we started.

The snow fell thickly all day, the wind began to rise again, and a little after four o'clock
the real force of the gale struck us in one continued, terrific sweep, and the snow blew so
thick that we nearly smothered.  The temperature was thirty degrees below zero.  We could not
see the length of the komatik.  We did not dare let go of it, for had we separated ourselves
a half dozen yards we should certainly have been lost.

Somehow the instincts of drivers and dogs, guided by the hand of a good Providence, led us
to the mission house at Nain, which we reached at five o'clock and were overwhelmed by the
kindness of the Moravians. This is the Moravian headquarters in Labrador, and the Bishop, Right
Reverend A. Martin, with his aids, is in charge.

It was Saturday night when we reached Nain, and Sunday was spent here while we secured new
drivers and dogs and waited for the storm to blow over.

Every one was so cordial and hospitable that I almost regretted the necessity of leaving on
Monday morning.  The day was excessively cold and a head wind froze cheeks and noses and required
an almost constant application of the hand to thaw them out and prevent them from freezing
permanently.  Easton even frosted his elbow through his heavy clothing of reindeer skin.

During the second day from Nain we met Missionary Christian Schmitt returning from a visit
to the natives farther south, and on the ice had a half hour's chat.

That evening we reached Davis Inlet Post of the Hudson's Bay Company, and spent the night with
Mr. Guy, the agent, and the following morning headed southward again, passed Cape Harrigan,
and in another two days reached Hopedale Mission, where we arrived just ahead of one of the
fierce storms* so frequent here at this season of the year, which held us prisoners from Thursday
night until Monday morning.  Two days later we pulled in at Makkovik, the last station of the
Moravians on our southern trail.

* Since writing the above I have learned that a half-breed whom I met at Davis Inlet, his wife
and a young native left that point for Hope- dale just after us, were overtaken by this storm,
lost their way, and were probably overcome by the elements.  Their dogs ate the bodies and
a week later returned, well fed, to Davis Inlet.  Dr. Grenfell found the bones in the spring.

CHAPTER XXIII

BACK TO NORTHWEST RIVER

We had now reached an English-speaking country; that is, a section where every one talked understandable
English, though at the same time nearly every one was conversant with the Eskimo language.

All down the coast we had been fortunate in securing dogs and drivers with little trouble through
the intervention of the missionaries; but at Makkovik dogs were scarce, and it seemed for a
time as though we were stranded here, but finally, with missionary Townley's aid I engaged
an old Eskimo named Martin Tuktusini to go with us to Rigolet. When I looked at Martin's dogs,
however, I saw at once that they were not equal to the journey, unaided.  Neither had I much
faith in Martin, for he was an old man who had nearly reached the end of his usefulness.

A day was lost in vainly looking around for additional dogs, and then Mr. Townley generously
loaned us his team and driver to help us on to Big Bight, fifteen miles away, where he thought
we might get dogs to supplement Martin's.

At Big Bight we found a miserable hut, where the people were indescribably poor and dirty.
A team was engaged after some delay to carry us to Tishialuk, thirty miles farther on our journey,
which place we reached the following day at eleven o'clock.

There is a single hovel at Tishialuk, occupied by two brothers--John and Sam Cove--and their
sister.  Their only food was flour, and a limited quantity of that.  Even tea and molasses,
usually found amongst the "livyeres" (live-heres) of the coast, were lacking.  Sam was only
too glad of the opportunity to earn a few dollars, and was engaged with his team to join forces
with Martin as far as Rigolet.

There are two routes from Tishialuk to Rigolet.  One is the "Big Neck" route over the hills,
and much shorter than the other, which is known as the outside route, though it also crosses
a wide neck of land inside of Cape Harrison, ending at Pottle's Bay on Hamilton Inlet.  It
was my intention to take the Big Neck trail, but Martin strenuously opposed it on the ground
that it passed over high hills, was much more difficult, and the probabilities of getting lost
should a storm occur were much greater by that route than by the other.  His objections prevailed,
and upon the afternoon of the day after our arrival Sam was ready, and in a gale of wind we
ran down on the ice to Tom Bromfield's cabin at Tilt Cove, that we might be ready to make an
early start for Pottle's Bay the following morning, as the whole day would be needed to cross
the neck of land to Pottle's Bay and the neatest shelter beyond.

Tom is a prosperous and ambitious hunter, and is fairly well-to-do as it goes on the Labrador.
His one-room cabin was very comfortable, and he treated us to unwonted luxuries, such as butter,
marmalade, and sugar for our tea.

During the evening he displayed to me the skin of a large wolf which he had killed a few days
before, and told us the story of the killing.

"I were away, sir," related he, "wi' th' dogs, savin' one which I leaves to home, 'tendin'
my fox traps.  The woman (meaning his wife) were alone wi' the young ones.  In the evenin'
(afternoon) her hears a fightin' of dogs outside, an' thinkin' one of the team was broke loose
an' run home, she starts to go out to beat the beasts an' put a stop to the fightin'.  But
lookin' out first before she goes, what does she see but the wolf that owned that skin, and
right handy to the door he were, too.  He were a big divil, as you sees, sir.  She were scared.
Then the wolf he goes off too; he be scared at the shootin'.  When I comes home she tells me,
and I lays fur the beast.  Well, sir, I just gits the rifle down and goes out, and when the
dogs sees me they runs and leaves the wolf, and I up and knocks he over wi' a bullet, and there's
his skin, worth a good four dollars, for he be an extra fine one, sir."

We sat up late that night listening to Tom's stories.

The next morning was leaden gray, and promised snow.  With the hope of reaching Pottle's Bay
before dark we started forward early, and at one o'clock in the afternoon were in the soft
snow of the spruce-covered neck.  Traveling was very bad and progress so slow that darkness
found us still amongst the scrubby firs.  Martin and I walked ahead of the dogs, making a path
and cutting away the growth where it was too thick to permit the passage of the teams.

Martin was guiding us by so circuitous a path that finally I began to suspect he had lost his
way, and, calling a halt, suggested that we had better make a shelter and stop until daylight,
particularly as the snow was now falling.  When you are lost in the bush it is a good rule
to stop where you are until you make certain of your course.  Martin in this instance, however,
seemed very positive that we were going in the right direction, though off the usual trail,
and he said that in another hour or so we would certainly come out and find the salt-water
ice of Hamilton Inlet.  So after an argument I agreed to proceed and trust in his assurances.

Easton, who was driving the rear team, was completely tired out with the exertion of steering
the komatik through the brush and untangling the dogs, which seemed to take a delight in spreading
out and getting their traces fast around the numerous small trees, and I went to the rear to
relieve him for a time from the exhausting work.

It was nearly two o'clock in the morning when we at length came upon the ice of a brook which
Martin admitted he had never seen before and confessed that he was completely lost.  I ordered
a halt at once until daylight.  We drank some cold water, ate some hard-tack and then stretched
our sleeping bags upon the snow and, all of us weary, lay down to let the drift cover us while
we slept.

At dawn we were up, and with a bit of jerked venison in my hand to serve for breakfast, I left
the others to lash the load on the komatiks and follow me and started on ahead.  I had walked
but half a mile when I came upon the rough hummocks of the Inlet ice.  Before noon we found
shelter from the now heavily driving snowstorm in a livyere's hut and here remained until the
following morning.

Just beyond this point, in crossing a neck of land, we came upon a small hut and, as is usual
on the Labrador, stopped for a moment.  The people of the coast always expect travelers to
stop and have a cup of tea with them, and feel that they have been slighted if this is not
done.  Here I found a widow named Newell, whom I knew, and her two or three small children.
It was a miserable hut, without even the ordinary comforts of the poorer coast cabins, only
one side of the earthen floor partially covered with rough boards, and the people destitute
of food.  Mrs. Newell told me that the other livyeres were giving her what little they had
to eat, and had saved them during the winter from actual starvation.  I had some hardtack and
tea in my "grub bag," and these I left with her.

Two days later we pulled in at Rigolet and were greeted by my friend Fraser.  It was almost
like getting home again, for now I was on old, familiar ground.  A good budget of letters that
had come during the previous summer awaited us and how eagerly we read them!  This was the
first communication we had received from our home folks since the previous June and it was
now February twenty-first.

We rested with Fraser until the twenty-third, and then with Mark Pallesser, a Groswater Bay
Eskimo, turned in to Northwest River where Stanton, upon coming from the interior, had remained
to wait for our return that he might join us for the balance of the journey out.  The going
was fearful and snowshoeing in the heavy snow tiresome.  It required two days to reach Mulligan,
where we spent the night with skipper Tom Blake, one of my good old friends, and at Tom's we
feasted on the first fresh venison we had had since leaving the Ungava district.  In the whole
distance from Whale River not a caribou had been killed during the winter by any one, while
in the previous winter a single hunter at Davis Inlet shot in one day a hundred and fifty,
and only ceased then because he had no more ammunition.  Tom had killed three or four, and
south of this point I learned of a hunter now and then getting one.

Northwest River was reached on Monday, February twenty-sixth, and we took Cotter by complete
surprise, for he had not expected us for another month.

The day after our arrival Stanton came to the Post from a cabin three miles above, where he
had been living alone, and he was delighted to see us.

The lumbermen at Muddy Lake, twenty miles away, heard of our arrival and sent down a special
messenger with a large addition to the mail which I was carrying out and which had been growing
steadily in bulk with its accumulations at every station.

This is the stormiest season of the year in Labrador, and weather conditions were such that
it was not until March sixth that we were permitted to resume our journey homeward.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE END OF THE LONG TRAIL

The storm left the ice covered with a depth of soft snow into which the dogs sank deep and
hauled the komatik with difficulty. Snowshoeing, too, was unusually hard.  The day we left
Northwest River (Tuesday, March sixth) the temperature rose above the freezing point, and when
it froze that night a thin crust formed, through which our snowshoes broke, adding very materially
to the labor of walking--and of course it was all walking.

As the days lengthened and the sun asserting his power, pushed higher and higher above the
horizon, the glare upon the white expanse of snow dazzled our eyes, and we had to put on smoked
glasses to protect ourselves from snow-blindness.  Even with the glasses our driver, Mark,
became partially snow-blind, and when, on the evening of the third day after leaving Northwest
River, we reached his home at Karwalla, an Eskimo settlement a few miles west of Rigolet, it
became necessary for us to halt until he was sufficiently recovered to enable him to travel again.

Here we met some of the Eskimos that had been connected with the Eskimo village at the World's
Fair at Chicago, in 1893.  Mary, Mark's wife, was one of the number.  She told me of having
been exhibited as far west as Portland, Oregon, and I asked:

"Mary, aren't you discontented here, after seeing so much of the world?  Wouldn't you like
to go back?"

"No, sir," she answered.  "'Tis fine here, where I has plenty of company.  'Tis too lonesome
in the States, sir."

"But you can't get the good things to eat here--the fruits and other things," I insisted.

"I likes the oranges and apples fine, sir--but they has no seal meat or deer's meat in the States."

It was not until Tuesday, March thirteenth, three days after our arrival at Karwalla, that
Mark thought himself quite able to proceed. The brief "mild" gave place to intense cold and
blustery, snowy weather.  We pushed on toward West Bay, on the outer coast again, by the "Backway,"
an arm of Hamilton Inlet that extends almost due east from Karwalla.

At West Bay I secured fresh dogs to carry us on to Cartwright, which I hoped to reach in one
day more.  But the going was fearfully poor, soft snow was drifted deep in the trail over Cape
Porcupine, the ice in Traymore was broken up by the gales, and this necessitated a long detour,
so it was nearly dark and snowing hard when we at last reached the house of James Williams,
at North River, just across Sandwich Bay from Cartwright Post.  The greeting I received was
so kindly that I was not altogether disappointed at having to spend the night here.

"We've been expectin' you all winter, sir," said Mrs. Williams.  "When you stopped two years
ago you said you'd come some other time, and we knew you would.  'Tis fine to see you again, sir."

On the afternoon of March seventeenth we reached Cartwright Post of the Hudson's Bay Company,
and my friend Mr. Ernest Swaffield, the agent, and Mrs. Swaffield, who had been so kind to
me on my former trip, gave us a cordial welcome.  Here also I met Dr. Mumford, the resident
physician at Dr. Grenfell's mission hospital at Battle Harbor, who was on a trip along the
coast visiting the sick.

Another four days' delay was necessary at Cartwright before dogs could be found to carry us
on, but with Swaffield's aid I finally secured teams and we resumed our journey, stopping at
night at the native cabins along the route.  Much bad weather was encountered to retard us
and I had difficulty now and again in securing dogs and drivers.  Many of the men that I had
on my previous trip, when I brought Hubbard's body out to Battle Harbor, were absent hunting,
but whenever I could find them they invariably engaged with me again to help me a stage upon
the journey.

From Long Pond, near Seal Islands, neither I nor the men I had knew the way (when I traveled
down the coast on the former occasion my drivers took a route outside of Long Pond), and that
afternoon we went astray, and with no one to set us right wandered about upon the ice until
long after dark, looking for a hut at Whale Bight, which was finally located by the dogs smelling
smoke and going to it.

A little beyond Whale Bight we came upon a bay that I recognized, and from that point I knew
the trail and headed directly to Williams' Harbor, where I found John and James Russell, two
of my old drivers, ready to take us on to Battle Harbor.

At last, on the afternoon of March twenty-sixth we reached the hospital, and how good it seemed
to be back almost within touch of civilization.  It was here that I ended that long and dreary
sledge journey with the last remains of dear old Hubbard, in the spring of 1904, and what a
flood of recollections came to me as I stood in front of the hospital and looked again across
the ice of St. Lewis Inlet! How well I remembered those weary days over there at Fox Harbor,
watching the broken, heaving ice that separated me from Battle Island; the little boat that
one day came into the ice and worked its way slowly through it until it reached us and took
us to the hospital and the ship; and how thankful I felt that I had reached here with my precious
burden safe.

Mrs. Mumford made us most welcome, and entertained me in the doctor's house, and was as good
and kind as she could be.

I must again express my appreciation of the truly wonderful work that Dr. Grenfell and his
brave associates are carrying on amongst the people of this dreary coast.  Year after year,
they brave the hardships and dangers of sea and fog and winter storms that they may minister
to the lowly and needy in the Master's name.  It is a saying on the coast that "even the dogs
know Dr. Grenfell," and it is literally true, for his activities carry him everywhere and God
knows what would become of some of the people if he were not there to look after them.  His
practice extends over a larger territory than that of any other physician in the world, but
the only fee he ever collects is the pleasure that comes with the knowledge of work well done.

At Battle Harbor I was told by a trader that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to procure
dogs to carry us up the Straits toward Quebec, and I was strongly advised to end my snowshoe
and dog journey here and wait for a steamer that was expected to come in April to the whaling
station at Cape Charles, twelve miles away.  This seemed good advice, for if we could get a
steamer here within three weeks or so that would take us to St. Johns we should reach home
probably earlier than we possibly could by going to Quebec.

There is a government coast telegraph line that follows the north shore of the St. Lawrence
from Quebec to Chateau Bay, but the nearest office open at this time was at Red Bay, sixty-five
miles from Battle Harbor, and I determined to go there and get into communication with home
and at the same time telegraph to Bowring Brothers in St. Johns and ascertain from them exactly
when I might expect the whaling steamer.

William Murphy offered to carry me over with his team, and, leaving Stanton and Easton comfortably
housed at Battle Harbor and both of them quite content to end their dog traveling here, on
the morning after my arrival Murphy and I made an early start for Red Bay.

