There is another reason why this currency should be made a legal tender. Our two last suspensions
of specie payments by the banks, viz., in 1857 and in 1860, were based upon panics, yet they
had the same disastrous effect, for the time, as if arising from short crops, overtrading,
or a currency greatly redundant. Such panic convulsions are caused mainly by the call for the
redemption of bank notes in specie, based on the fear of suspension and depreciation. But if
such notes, as in European government banks, were a legal tender, except by the banks, such
panics would be far less frequent here, and less injurious. The present system, as compared
with that of Europe, discriminates most unjustly against our country. As a general rule, the
American creditor cannot demand gold from the foreign debtor, but such foreign or domestic
creditor could always demand gold from the American debtor. This discrimination has produced
here the most disastrous consequences, and, independent of the present condition of the country,
our whole banking system requires radical reform. We have had eight general bank suspensions
under our present bank system, many of them continuing for years, and producing ruin and desolation.
Under our present system, to talk, as a general rule, of well-regulated banks, is to talk of
a well-regulated famine or pestilence, or of a well-regulated earthquake or tornado. And even
the few banks that are claimed to be well managed, have no appreciable effect on the system.
It is the system that knows no uniformity or security, and never can have, as now organized.
That a system so perilous and explosive, should have even partially succeeded is proof only
of the intelligence and integrity, generally, of the bank officers and directors, but no recommendation
of the system itself.

The want of uniformity as to commercial regulations, led to the adoption of our Federal Constitution;
and yet we have no uniformity as to money, which represents commerce and effects its interchanges.
In this respect, we are still suffering all the evils of the old confederacy, and have thereby
so weakened the Government as to have invited this rebellion. Indeed, the State banks in the
revolted States were the main auxiliaries of treason and secession, and supplied, to a vast
extent, the sinews of war. By Census Table 34, there were in 1860, 1,642 banks, incorporated
by thirty-four States, with no uniformity of organization, issues, or security. Thus is it
that the States have usurped the power to regulate commerce and currency, and to emit bills
of credit, in defiance of the prohibition of the Federal Constitution. The Egyptians abandoned
their folly after seven plagues; but we have had eight bank convulsions, and yet we adhere
to the wretched system.

I believe it was slavery caused the rebellion, but, in the absence of powerful aid from the
Southern banks, the revolted States could never have maintained so prolonged a contest. Organized
as now proposed, these new banks, and all who held their notes, must have sustained the Government.
Nations expend millions yearly in erecting forts and maintaining, even in peace, large armies
and navies to preserve the Government. But necessary as these may be, they would not be more
important than the system now proposed as a security for the preservation of the Government.

My last suggestion is, that as regards all such United States loans, as during the war shall
become the basis of this system, the time of payment shall be made twenty years instead of
five, so as, with the modifications above proposed, to insure the coöperation of the banks,
and the success of the system. As this plan is deemed essential to save our finances, to suppress
the rebellion, and maintain the Union, why incur any hazard on such a question as this? In
all our wars, including the present, we have issued bonds running twenty years to maturity,
and the bonds, redeemable in 1881, are scarcely at par. Why, then, issue a stock of less value,
which may fail to accomplish the great object, when a better security would certainly succeed?
Surely, if this be necessary to secure the coöperation of the banks, and the capital of the
country, there should be no hesitation. Even if the system, based only on the bonds of short
date, should ultimately succeed, the loss, in the interim, from a redundant and depreciated
currency, would far exceed any benefit derived from the substitution of five-twenties for twenty
year bonds. By Census Table 35, our wealth in 1850, was $7,135,780,228, and in 1860, $16,159,616,068,
the ratio of increase during the decade being 126.45 per cent.; at which rate, our wealth in
1870 would be $36,583,450,585, and in 1880, $82,843,222,849. Surely, then, at these periods,
it would be much easier to liquidate this debt than in 1867. But, were it otherwise, the immediate
gain from decreased expenditures, arising from funding more rapidly our treasury notes, thus
rendering our currency less redundant and depreciated, with the revival of the public credit,
and its immediate happy influence, North and South, here and in Europe, would far more than
compensate for any contingent advantage arising from short loans. Our twenty years' loan is
now barely at par, and the five-twenties below par. The difficulty of inducing bank and other
capital to invest hundreds of millions of dollars under the new system is very great. Is it
wise to commence the effort, confined to our weakest securities, now below par? Besides, considering
the old and new debts, and constantly increasing responsibilities, is there any prospect that
we will have liquidated all these before the end of five years, and the five-twenty loan also?
Surely, upon a benefit so doubtful, and a contingency so improbable, we ought not to risk the
fate of a measure on which depends the safety of the Union. But if we could pay off the five-twenty
loan held by the new banks, is it prudent to assume that so many hundred millions of capital
will be withdrawn from the present banks and other business for investment in the new banks,
which may cease at the end of five years by payment of the bonds? The change from the old to
the new banks may involve some loss at first, but, if the system may be arrested at the end
of five years, just when profits might be realizing, the plan could scarcely succeed. When
the Secretary first proposed this system in December, 1861, he probably would have succeeded
with the five-twenties, in the condition at that date of the public credit. But the disastrous
fall of our securities since that date, seems now to require bonds of a higher value.

I would then provide a twenty years loan, for all that may be made the basis of the new bank
circulation. But it is not a six, but only a four per cent. twenty years' loan that is proposed,
by deducting one per cent. semi-annually from the interest of the bonds made the basis of this
bank circulation. This deduction would only be a fair equivalent for the expenses incurred
by the Government in furnishing the circulation, for the release of taxes, for the deposit
of public moneys with these banks, for making their notes a legal tender, and receiving them
for all dues except customs. The tax on all other bank circulation should be one and a half
per cent. semi-annually, secured by adequate penalties.

If, under this system, during this stupendous rebellion, involving the existence of the Government,
with armies and expenditures unexampled in history, the Secretary (as, with the aid of Congress
and the banks, I believe he can) should secure us a sound and uniform currency, and negotiate
vast loans, running twenty years, at par, the Government paying only four per cent. interest
per annum, he will have accomplished a financial miracle, and deserved a fame nearest to that
of the first and greatest of his predecessors, the peerless Hamilton.

The bill organizing the new system, presented in Congress by Mr. Hooper last summer, is drawn
with great ability, and it is much to be deplored, that (with some amendments) it had not then
become a law, when it could have been much more easily put in operation, and would have saved
hundreds of millions of dollars to the Government.

But the fifty-fifth section of that bill provides that all the banks organized under it are
to become 'depositaries of the public moneys,' excepting those in 'the city of Washington.'
Why this discrimination? If there be any place where banks, organized under a national charter,
issuing a national currency, and receiving national deposits, should be encouraged, it is here.
With no discrimination against them, such banks would be established here with considerable
capital. And why not? It cannot be intended to discourage the establishment of such banks here,
and thus defeat, to that extent, the success of the system. It is here, if anywhere, that such
banks should receive the public deposits, where they could be constantly secured from day to
day under the immediate supervision of the Government. Besides, the only effect of such a discrimination
would be to drive such banks to Georgetown, Alexandria, or some other speculative site outside
the city or District. This city has just been consecrated to freedom by Congress, and it is
hoped that, in commencing its new career, no discrimination will be made against it. Indeed,
I think it would be wise, in order to insure the success here of the new system, to allow the
district banks organized under this law to receive the same rate of interest as is permitted
in New York.

I have contended, during the last fourth of a century, that all State bank currency is unconstitutional.
This rebellion will demonstrate the truth of that proposition, and the question ultimately
be so decided by the Supreme Court of the United States. This, it is true, might require some
of those Judges, if then living, to change their opinion on some points; but this has been
done before, and even on constitutional questions; and State banks will fall before judicial
action, as well as nullification, State allegiance, secession, and the whole brood of kindred
heresies.

A republic which cannot regulate its currency, or which leaves that power with thirty-four
separate States, each legislating at its pleasure and without uniformity, abandons an essential
national authority, and this abdication has furnished one of the main supports of the rebellion.
With nothing but a national currency, the revolted States never could have successfully inaugurated
this war, and we must deprive them in all time to come of this terrible ally of treason. To
permit the States to provide the circulating medium, the money of the country, is to enable
them to furnish the sinews of war, and clothe them with a power to overthrow the Government.

With only such a national currency as is now proposed, issued by the Government to these banks,
organized by Congress, and based on the deposit in the Federal treasury of United States stock,
the rebellion would have been impossible. Our Government was so mild and benignant, that we
deemed it exempt from the assault of traitors; but this revolt has dissipated this delusion,
and warned us to provide all the safeguards indicated by experience as necessary to maintain
the Union. Among the most important is the resumption by the Government of the great sovereign
function of regulating the currency and giving to it uniformity and nationality. Such was clearly
the intention of the Constitution. The Government has, by the Constitution, the exclusive power
'to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States.' But commerce is
regulated mainly by money, and by it all interstate and international exchanges of products
are made. If the currency is redundant, prices rise, exports are diminished; and the reverse
follows with a contracted circulation. But banks inflate or restrict the currency at their
pleasure, and thus control prices, commerce, exports, imports, and revenue. But they also destroy
or depreciate the money of the Government, and deprive it of a vital power. Thus, the nation
issues treasury notes, and makes them a legal tender: the banks immediately make such notes
the basis of bank issues, in the ratio of three to one, and the whole currency necessarily
becomes redundant and depreciated; and thus this essential power of the Government is controlled
by the States, and, for all practical purposes, annihilated.

Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the unanimous opinion of the Supreme Court of the United
States (4 Wheaton 193), said: 'Wherever the terms in which a power is granted to Congress,
or the nature of the power require that it should be exercised exclusively by Congress, the
subject is as completely taken from the State Legislatures as if they had been forbidden to
act on it.' Now, it has been decided by the Supreme Court of the United States (9 Wheaton 1)
that, this power to regulate commerce extends to the land, as well as to the water, that it
includes intercourse and navigation, and vessels, as vehicles of commerce, that it includes
an embargo which is prohibitory, that this power is 'EXCLUSIVELY vested in Congress,' and 'no
part of it can be exercised by a State.' Now, the question, whether the notes of a State bank,
issued on the authority of a State, and designed to circulate as money, conflicts with this
clause of the Constitution, has never been decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.
This is a new and momentous question, never yet adjudicated by the Supreme Court; but how they
would now decide that point, with the light thrown upon it by this rebellion, I cannot doubt.

The Government also has the sole power to lay and collect duties, which 'shall be uniform throughout
the United States,' and the States are prohibited from exercising this authority. But this
power also is in fact controlled by the banks, and the revenue from imports increased or diminished,
according to their action. Indeed, they can modify or repeal tariffs at their pleasure, for,
they have only to inflate the circulation, and prices rise here to the extent of the duties,
and the tariff becomes inoperative. Of all the branches of our industry, the manufacturing
is injured most by a redundant currency, limiting our fabrics to a partial supply at home,
and driving them from the foreign market. Give us a sound, stable, uniform currency, sufficient
but not redundant, and our skilled, educated, and intelligent labor will, in time, defy all
competition. But the banks, as now conducted, are the great enemies of American industry.

The Government has also the sole power 'to coin money, regulate the value thereof,' etc. But
the banks now regulate its value by controlling prices, by substituting their money for coin,
and by expelling it from the country at their pleasure. Recollect, these powers over commerce
and money are exclusive, not concurrent, so adjudicated, and the Constitution, in delegating
them exclusively to the Government, withheld them altogether from the States. The conceded
fact that these powers are exclusive, proves that the States cannot, by any instrumentality,
directly or indirectly, control their exercise. An exclusive authority necessarily forbids
any control or interference. But there are express prohibitions in the Constitution as well
as grants. That instrument declares that 'no State shall emit bills of credit.' The State itself
cannot emit circulating paper: how then can it authorize this to be done by a State corporation,
which is the mere creature of a State law? The State cannot authorize its Governor to issue
such paper: how then can it direct a cashier, deriving all his power only from a State law,
to do the same thing? Qui facit per alium, facit per se, and this fundamental maxim of law
and reason is violated when a State does through any instrumentality, created by it, what the
State cannot do itself.

It is true that a majority of the Supreme Court of the United States, in 11 Peters 257, did
decide that the Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky did not violate that clause of the Constitution
forbidding States to 'emit bills of credit,' but Justice Story, in his dissenting opinion,
said: 'When this cause was formerly argued before this court, a majority of the judges who
then heard it were decidedly of opinion that the act of Kentucky establishing this bank was
unconstitutional and void, as amounting to an authority to emit bills of credit, for and on
behalf of the State, within the prohibition of the Constitution of the United States. In principle,
it was thought to be decided by the case of Craig v. the State of Missouri (4 Peters 410).
Among that majority was the late Chief Justice Marshall.' This decision, then, in the case
of the Bank of Kentucky, is overthrown, as an authority, by the fact that it was against the
decision of the Supreme Court in a former case, and against the opinion of a majority of the
court in that very case before the death of Chief Justice Marshall. In delivering the opinion
of the court in the Missouri case (4 Peters 410), Chief Justice Marshall defined what is that
bill of credit which a State cannot emit. He says: 'If the prohibition means anything, if the
words are not empty sounds, it must comprehend the emission of any paper medium by a State
Government, for the purpose of common circulation.' And he also says: 'Bills of credit signify
a paper medium, intended to circulate between individuals, and between Government and individuals,
for the ordinary purposes of society.' That the notes of the Bank of Kentucky came within this
definition and decision, is clearly stated by Justice Story. In that case also it was expressly
decided, that if the issues be unconstitutional, the notes given for the loan of them ARE VOID.
It is said, however, that the bills are issued by a bank, not by the State; but the bank is
created by the State, and authorized by the State to issue these notes, to circulate as money.
In the language of Chief Justice Marshall, in this case, 'And can this make any real difference?
Is the proposition to be maintained that the Constitution meant to prohibit names and not things?'
On this subject, Justice Story says: 'That a State may rightfully evade the prohibitions of
the Constitution by acting through the instrumentality of agents in the evasion, instead of
acting in its own direct name, is a doctrine to which I can never subscribe,' etc. I am conscious
that Justice Story also said in the same case, arguendo: 'the States may create banks as well
as other corporations, upon private capital; and, SO FAR AS THIS PROHIBITION IS CONCERNED,
may rightfully authorize them to issue bank bills or notes as currency, subject always to the
control of Congress, whose powers extend to the entire regulation of the currency of the country.'
It will be observed, that Justice Story gives no opinion as to whether the issues of such banks
are constitutional, whether they conflict or not with the power of Congress to regulate coin
or commerce. He only says (and the limitation is most significant), they do not violate the
prohibition as to bills of credit (from which I dissent); but he does declare that to Congress
belongs 'the entire regulation of the currency.' Now this power must rest on the authority
of Congress to regulate coin and commerce. I repeat, that while this question has never been
adjudicated by the Supreme Court, yet, if their decision in fourth and ninth Wheaton is maintained,
such bank issues are clearly unconstitutional. It is clear, also, whatever may be the case
of bank issues, based only 'upon private capital,' or, in the language of Judge Story, 'if
the corporate stock, and that only by the charter, is made liable for the debts of the bank,'
yet, if the bank issues are based on the 'funds' or 'credit' of the State, such issues do violate
the prohibition against bills of credit. Such bank issues, then, as are furnished and countersigned
by State officers, acting under State laws, and are secured by the deposit with the State of
its own stock, are most clearly unconstitutional. The rebellion is the child of State usurpation,
State supremacy, State allegiance, and State secession. And now the Government is paralyzed
financially, in its efforts to suppress the rebellion, by a question as to State banks, depreciating
the currency, and State banks based on State stocks. The Government wishes a currency, not
redundant, and to borrow money to save the Union. But one State says, we have placed all our
surplus money in State banks, and another State (as in the case of New York) says, we have
based the circulation of these banks, mainly on our own State bonds, and you must do nothing
which will injuriously affect their value. It is true the Union is in danger, but are not the
credit of State banks and State bonds of higher value than the Union? The State first, the
Union afterwards. Our paramount duty is to our State, and that to the Union is subordinate.
Why, this is the very language of rebellion--the echo of South Carolina treason.

The supremacy then, is with the Federal Constitution and laws; otherwise there could be no
uniformity or nationality. And does New York suppose that she can tear down the temple of the
Union, and that the principal pillar which supported the arch will stand firm and erect? No!
if the Union falls, New York will only be the most conspicuous among the broken columns.

But New York knows that the path of interest is that of honor and of duty. It is the Union
only that has made her great. It is the concentration by the Union of interstate and international
commerce in her great city, that was consummating its imperial destiny. Before the Union of
1778 and 1787, New York city was the village of Manhattan: destroy the Union, and she will
again become little more than the village of Manhattan. The trident of the ocean, the sceptre
of the world's commerce would fall from her grasp, and London be left without a rival. Deprive
the Government of the power to regulate commerce, and the fall of New York will be as rapid
as her rise. Each State then, as before the Constitution, would control its own commerce, and
the railroads and canals of New York would cease to be the vehicles of the trade of the nation
and of the world. Each State, as under the old Confederacy, would force commerce into her own
ports by prohibitory or discriminating statutes. No, when New York takes from the Union the
exclusive control of commerce, she commits suicide. One uniform regulation of commerce, and
one uniform currency, are more essential to the prosperity of New York than to that of any
other State. New York represents interstate and international commerce. There are concentrated
our imports and exports, and there three fourths of our revenue is collected. There, if the
Union endures, must be the centre of the commerce of the nation and of the world. If the rebellion
succeeds, the separation of the East and West is just as certain as that of the North and South.
Discord would reign supreme, and States and parts of States become petty sovereignties, mere
pawns, to be moved on the political chess board by the kings and queens of Europe.

As New York has derived the greatest benefits from the Union, so would she suffer most from
its fall. It is New York to whom the Union transferred the command of her own commerce, and
ultimately that of the world. It is New York to which England looks as the future successful
rival of London, and it is New York at whom England chiefly aims the blow in desiring to overthrow
the Union. The interest of New York in the price of bank or State stock is insignificant compared
with her still greater stake in the success of the Union. Indeed, if the Union should fall,
State and bank stock and all property will be of little value, and bank debts will generally
become worthless.

But if the war continues, we have seen that a redundant and depreciated currency would increase
our expenditures $408,800,000 per annum. This would require a like addition to our annual tax,
of which the share of New York would be over $50,000,000, and the share of every other State
in like proportion to its population.

By Treasury Table 35, the stocks, State and Federal, held by the New York banks in 1860, was
$29,605,318, the circulation $28,239,950, and the capital $111,821,957. Thus it appears that
the increased tax to be paid annually by New York, as the consequence of a redundant and depreciated
currency, would be nearly double her whole bank circulation, and that thirteen months of this
increased tax to be paid by the nation, would largely exceed the whole capital of all the banks
of the United States in 1860. (Census Table 35.) These are the frightful results of an irredeemable,
redundant, and depreciated currency.

Such a course, on the part of a Government, which must make large purchases, resembles that
of an individual who wishes to buy largely on his own credit and paper, but depreciates it
so much as to compel him to pay quadruple prices, the result being bankruptcy and repudiation.

There is great hope in the fact that New York takes no contracted view of this great question.
She knows that her imperial destiny is identified with the fate of the Union. Realizing this
great truth, she has more troops in the field than any other State, she has expended more money
and more blood than any other State to suppress this rebellion, and she will never array State
stocks or State banks in hostility to the safety of the Union.

And what of Pennsylvania, that glorious old Commonwealth, so many of whose noble sons, cut
off mostly in the morning of life, now fill graves prepared by treason? Is she to become a
border State, and her southern boundary the line of blood, marked by frowning forts, by bristling
bayonets, by the tramp of contending armies, engaged in the carnival of slaughter, and revelry
of death? Is New England to be re-colonized, and the British flag again to float over the chosen
domain of freedom? What of the small States, deprived of the secured equality and protective
guarantees of the Constitution, to be surely crushed by more powerful communities? What of
the West? Is it to be cut off from the seaboard, and rendered tributary to the maritime power?
What of the States of the Pacific? Are they to lose the great imperial railways destined, under
the Union, to connect them with the valley of the Mississippi and the Atlantic? But alas! why
look at any of the bleeding and mutilated fragments, when all will be involved in a common ruin?

May a gracious Providence give us all, the wisdom to discern what is best for our beloved country,
in this her day of fearful trial, and the courage and patriotism to adopt whatever course is
best calculated to save us from impending ruin!

A TRIP TO ANTIETAM.

